RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE  ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Room 29, Bishops Building, Salt Lake City, Utah VOLUME VIIT $1.00 a Year—Single Copy 10c JANUARY, 1921 RELIEF SOCIETY NUMBER 12 L. D. S. GARMENTS The Sign of Quality The Sign of Comfort If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. Samples submitted upon request. To any part of the United States. Style Price 2 Unbranded special, light wt., $1.65 15 Bleached spring needle gauze, 1.85 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached, 2.25 3 Cotton, gauze wt. Bleached, 2.50 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached, 2.50 100 Cotton, heavy wt., bleached, 2.75 We will prepay all postage 90 Cotton. Heavy wt. Unbleached, $2.75 50 Lisle, gauze weight, bleached, 3.00 107 Merino wool, medium weight, 3.75 109 Merino wool, heavy weight, 4.75 65 Mercerized, It. Wt., bleached, 5.00 120 3/4 Australian wool, light wt., 6.00 The only approved Garments made with wide flaps at back, button holes for better fastening down front, and set in shoulder pieces to prevent sleeves stretching. Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 South Main St. Salt Lake City Utah Sunshine Enters the home with every loaf of Royal Bread—the all-pure loaf the kiddies love, that keeps them happy and bounding at play. ROYAL BREAD your | The bread that made Rem mother quit baking = Is all pure food. Why bother to bake at home? Give your Neighborhood Grocer a standing order for this excellent bread. It's best for you. Royal Baking Co. SALT LAKE The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph B which has the non-set automatic stop. It plays a record and stops itself without your aid $15.00 A MONTH will buy this instrument  "OLDER MAN THE STATE ae Style 145 Pure silk, Price 12.00 BUY AT DICKINSON'S 'the right weigh'' Where up-to-date methods make shopping a pleasure for you, whether you select your requirements, or order them over the 'phone. 'It is our pride to deliver to you the exact quality and quantity that you purchase. I Our most valuable asset: "Satisfied Customers." CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES Hyland 60. 680 East Second South Street. Latter-Day Saints Garments APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. 111 Light weight, cotton................ 120 Light weight, bleached...... Ps 160 Medium weight, cotton: 122 Medium weight, bleached... 2.25 190 Heavy weight, cotton............ 2.75 No. 124 Heavy weight, bleached........$3.00 150 Extra white meres.. 4,00 110 Medium wool, mixed.............. 4.00 116 Heavy wool, mixed ................5.00 118 Extra heavy wool 0... 6.50 WASATCH WOOLEN MILLS No. 657 Iverson Street Salt Lake City, Utah What Do Your Children Read? Guiding children in their reading is a big, vital problem. There are so many wholesome, inspiring volumes that you cannot afford to let them read anything trashy or cheap. Co-operate with our Juvenile Department. Let us suggest Books that are high class, Books that. Meet the personal tastes, adapted to various ages. Write for lists. Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street A REAL self-filling Pen Guaranteed to Satisfy Ask about it Write about it MeConahay "The Jeweler" 64 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake's Leading Opticians LOUIS A. JAMES and DONALD C. JAMES OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS Globe Optical Company East 2nd South (Walker Bank Bldg.) Salt Lake City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
CONTENTS
JANUARY, 1921
A New Year's Prayer for 1921.............................. 1 Four Great-Grandmothers.............................Frontispiece A Blessed Baby............................................ 3 A Prayer................................................. 6 Out of the World......................................... 7 The International Council of Women....................... 21 World Happenings........................................ 32 Notes from the Field.................................... 35 Editorial: My New Year Resolution........................ 41 Lesson on Tobacco Evil.................................. 43 Guide Lessons for February.............................. 45 Guide Lessons for March.................................
ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who patronize us.
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. ROYAL BREAD CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. DICKINSON'S, 680 East Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. WASATCH WOOLEN MILLS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. GLOBE OPTICAL CO., East Second South, Salt Lake City, Utah. KEELEY'S, Salt Lake City, Utah. McCONAHAY, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City, Utah. McDONALD CANDY CO., Salt Lake City, Utah.
A NEW YEAR'S PRAYER FOR 1921. L. Lula Greene Richards.
Father who art in Heaven, Hallowed be Thy name! As Jesus taught the humble Who to His presence came, Joseph Thy modern Prophet Hath taught Thy Saints to pray, And this we would approach Thee On this great New Year's day.
We thank Thee that Thy Kingdom Hath come on earth again, With Prophets and Apostles, Devout and holy Men. Come Jesus, Heaven's Kingdom In light and power display, Bring Thou with all its glory A New Eternal Day!
FOUR GREAT-GRANDMOTHERS.
Back Row: Elize Manglesen, Maria E. Bosh, Anna Petersen, Mary Hanson Sherwood. Middle row: Grandmother Millie M. Wankeer, mother of babe in center, Thelma Bosh Peterson, with baby Peterson on her lap. Below is seated great-great-grandmother Amelia Bosh.
THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. VIII JANUARY, 1921 No. 1
A Blessed Baby.
We are using for our New Year's frontispiece a picture which is the most remarkable group we have ever seen, for the baby on the lap of the mother is surrounded by her two living grandmothers and her four great grandmothers, and below her is one of her great-great grandmothers. The names are as follows:
Baby Peterson—born May 1, 1920, in Levan, Juab Co., Utah. Mother, Thelma Bosh Peterson, born Dec. 9, 1902, Levan, Juab Co., Utah.
Two Grandmothers Millie M. Wankeer, born Jan. 28, 1867, age 53, in Denmark. Leah S. Bosh, born August 23, 1882, at Sandy.
Four Great Grandmothers Elize Mangelesen, born March 27, 1846, in Denmark, came to Utah in 1869. Maria C. Bosh, born July 19, 1860, in Denmark, age 60. Anna Peterson, born Jan. 18, 1844, in Denmark, came to Utah about 1860. Mary H. Sherwood, born July 1, 1859, in Omaha.
Great Great Grandmother: (seated below baby) Amelia Bosh, born Dec. 24, 1833, in Ostep, Germany, age 87.
You will note that the great-great grandmother was born in 1833, and two of the great-grandmothers in the early 40's, while one great grandmother was born in 1859. The grandmothers are born in 1882 and 1867. All of these women are of sturdy Scandinavian stock, one of the great grandmothers, Mary Hanson Sherwood, having a rather remarkable personal history. She was born in Omaha on the way to Utah, where her mother had lingered to gather means to go into the valley. Her mother was the first woman baptized in Iceland and was a widow with this child when she reached Utah a year or two later. The widow settled in Spanish Fork, Utah. When the girl was fourteen years old, her mother came to Salt Lake City and took a room in the tithing office lodging house, inside the Brigham Young wall which then surrounded the Lion House, and on its southwest corner the old Tithing Office and Deseret News building. She gave the girl into the care and custody of Mrs. Susa Young Gates, when she died, a year later, in the house. Mary lived with Mrs. Gates for four or five years and finally married William Sherwood, by whom she had nine sturdy children. By dint of much toil and sacrifice they secured a farm in Levan, Utah. After many years, having married off their children, they came to Salt Lake and asked their old friend for help, to get a position as care-takers in some home. They secured employment with Mrs. A. W. McCune at her home on the hill as housekeeper and care-takers. In looking over her mother's old papers, Sister Sherwood found a little book which carries her line back twelve hundred years into the Icelandic royal line in a straight unbroken chain. This year Sister Sherwood was assisted by Professor Bjornson, of the B. Y. College, in Logan, to get this line connected up in its ramifications, through the office of one of the leading Icelandic scholars in his native country. Strange to say, she had just saved sufficient money to pay for this service and happily sent her contribution to complete her wonderful Icelandic royal line. How true it is that the Latter-day Saints are the descendants of the best and noblest stock in the countries from which they came! We are happy to present this picture as a New Year's offering to our readers.
A PRAYER May E. Lillie
A good wife to my husband, O Lord, I crave to be; A good mother to the children that thou hast given me; A good daughter to my mother, in humbleness I pray; A good sister to the brothers whom I love more every day; A good relative and neighbor, and O unto the end, Make me, gracious Father, thy loyal, loving friend.
Out of the World
PART I. By G. Milton Babcock.
"Look, mama! I got my report today," shouted ten-year-old Walter Nelson, as he gleefully banged his way into the kitchen of the Nelson home. "I passed all my examinations and got ninety-six in deportment. Now, ain't I a good boy?"
"Mercy me! Child, you don't need to slam the door so. I'm afraid if you came into the school room that way you would never get so high a mark. Well, my boy, I am pleased with your progress, and hope you will always do good work in school." So saying, Florence Nelson caught her only child and hugged him affectionately. He had been her all for eight long years—since the time her husband left to work in the country, only to be stricken with pneumonia and die in the home of his employer. His death had been a terrible blow to the girl, for during their three short years of married life they had been unable to accumulate anything except the furniture, which they had paid for on the installment plan; and, like many men of the day, he had failed to take out a life insurance policy.
The widow hardly knew which way to turn, when thrown upon her own resources. However, she finally secured work from one of the many collar shops in the vicinity, the collars being delivered unfolded to her home each morning. Each collar required the use of an awl in picking out the wrinkled corners; one edge was then turned under about a quarter of an inch, and the collar pressed neatly. It was arduous work, particularly the pressing. Often would a neighbor, hurrying by as the town clock ominously tolled one of the early morning hours, glance up at the lighted window and mutter some such remark as, "Goodness! Mrs. Nelson's still at it." Enforced vacations were of frequent occurrence, due to slowing down of production at the factory, so that what little surplus she was able to accumulate during the times of steady work was used to tide her over the idle periods. Despite all this, she lived in quiet enjoyment of her home, and her personal appearance seldom betrayed the long hours that she worked in order to keep body and soul together and make it possible for her boy to get an education. Somewhat
8 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
short of stature, with soft, loving, brown eyes that shone from under an arch of gold, she gave the impression of one who could suffer and yet be strong.
The following evening a far-away look was in her eyes as one of the neighbors called.
"Still turning collars, I see!" greeted the visitor cheerily.
"Yes, Jane; I had two dozen to do over."
"That's a shame! What's the matter, you don't look as happy as usual. Come, give me that awl and I'll help you. You must be tired out."
"It's not that so much, Jane; but Walter came home with his school report today and it brought to memory an incident that happened just thirteen years ago this month."
"Tell me about it, Mrs. Nelson."
A barely audible sigh escaped the widow's lips as she turned over a portion of her work to the visitor. She sat a moment in deep thought.
"Well, at the beginning of my junior year in high school, the faculty offered a prize of ten dollars in gold for the student making the best progress in English. It did not interest me very much, for I was a poor English student; and, sure enough, on my first test I only got sixty.
"The year rolled by and commencement night came in all its glory. The graduates, of course, were the center of attraction and the envy of the students. The valedictorian was a big, manly fellow with bright, twinkling eyes, and a smile that you couldn't resist. After the diplomas had been given out, the principal arose and referred to the English prize, and stated that two students had proved worthy of receiving it, and, therefore, the faculty had decided to divide it equally between the two. He said one had started out with a very low mark and finished with a good one; while the other progressed from a fair to an excellent mark. Who should be one of the winners but the valedictorian! The other—you can't guess—was me! I had brought my final mark to eighty-three.
"Just as I was about to go out the door, the young man with whom I shared the prize came up, and, with that winning smile of his, asked if he might accompany me home. I had known him by sight for some time, but that was all, although I had heard his name mentioned. He was a splendid companion—not the mushy, flattering type that one so often meets now-adays—so when he asked if he might call, I readily gave my consent.
"Jane, I don't know why I should be telling you these things—I had thought the memory of them was buried, never to rise." She paused, an expression of deep sadness overshadowing her countenance.
OUT OF THE WORLD. 9
"Do go on, Mrs. Nelson," pleaded the guest. "What became of the young man?"
"Well, a warm friendship sprang up between us, and I felt that I could trust myself with him anywhere. Many the summer evening would we go for a row on the Hudson above the dam—you know how pleasant it is up there. He was always so agreeable; but he had very peculiar religious views.
"One afternoon as our boat drifted along I said, 'Joe, what church do you go to?'
"He looked at me in a peculiar sort of way and replied, slowly:
"'Guess I don't belong to any church now, although I was brought up a Presbyterian.'
"'How's that?' I asked.
"He then told me that about the time he finished grade school, the men at the car shops in Mohawk Heights went out on strike and things went pretty hard for them. His minister was getting a good salary and had seemed to be satisfied up till the time of the strike; but at that time, when the people needed all their money, he had the gall to ask for a raise, saying that he had received a call which would pay him more. Of course, it was out of the question for the congregation to pay him more. Nevertheless, at this time, when the people needed spiritual help more than ever, that fellow left—sold himself for money—and the church had to close down until the strike was over. Joe said he hadn't been able to get himself into a church since that time, and that he couldn't help but think that people were being railroaded to heaven at so much a mile, and that there were dozens of lines to travel over. I remember his exact words:
"'Christ intended that we should travel over one road—the straight and narrow one—and I hope, some day, either in this world or the next, I shall find the right way.'
"Jane, I wonder if he knows the right way—now?" she sobbed. "Joe Nelson was my husband!"
II.
Florence Nelson arose the next morning before the sun came with its awakening rays. Old friends and old scenes had appeared in quick succession in her sleep, and it seemed that the world she awoke in was that of a dozen or more years back. A sudden desire to take a walk in the cool morning air came upon her, and as Walter had gone to bed earlier than usual the night before, she felt he would be glad to accompany her.
"Walter," she called, shaking him gently.
"What, mam?"
10 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
"Don't you want to get up and take a nice walk with me? We'll be back in time for Sunday school."
"Yes, I guess so; where will we go?"
"Oh, up toward Fairview. Come now, hurry and get dressed, so we can start out before it gets too hot."
Soon they were bound for the hills. It was a beautiful July morning. Walter ran back and forth and finally presented his mother with a bunch of what he called "Dead-Men's Bones"—she called them "Butter-and-Eggs"—a pretty yellow and orange-colored flower which grew by the wayside. Among other things, he pointed out the "swimmin' hole" in a good-sized creek that flowed under the railroad bridge. Here the boys were wont to bathe, clothed only in nature's garb, but always making it a point to be a "body of flesh surrounded by water" when the passenger trains went by.
Presently the highlands overlooking the valley were reached, and they rested under a great elm which stood apart, alone, overlooking the landscape. The songs of birds, and the hum of insects floated through the air, while the daisies gently nodded their heads in the morning breeze. Below, in the foreground, lay Green Island, and Walter busied himself for a moment in trying to pick out the gable of their house from among the many that showed dimly through the village treetops. Gone was the wild vegetation which had suggested the first part of the name to the early settlers, but the mountain and ocean-fed Hudson still flowed on the east and south, while the swift, rock-cutting Mohawk coming down from the northwest divided into a "Y," the main stream flowing east to the Hudson, and the other branching along the west side of the village eventually also finding its way to the Hudson.
The splendor of the view inspired the widow, and a song of gladness arose within her heart in harmony with the sounds emanating from the wildwood and from the branches of the stately elm above. Walter, too, was impressed, and asked:
"Mama, wasn't God good to give us such a beautiful world to live in?"
"Yes, my boy; and don't you think we ought to be thankful for these things; and do what he wants us to do?"
"I am thankful, mama. You know I say my prayers and go to church."
"I know you do, my child; but that isn't all; we must let our every-day lives show that we love God. We should love our teachers and our playmates, and be fair in everything we do—in every game we play. And above all, we must be truthful. If we do these things we are indeed the children of our heavenly Father."
OUT OF THE WORLD. 11
"Tell me about my heavenly Father, mama; how can I have two fathers?"
"One is your earthly father, while the One who made this beautiful world for us is our heavenly Father—"
"He made the world out of nothin', didn't he?" interrupted the boy. "That's what my Sunday school teacher says."
She thought for a moment before replying—could "something" be made from "nothing"? The Bible said that God created the world, and the church taught that he did it out of "nothing"—surely the church could not be wrong about it!
"I guess your teacher is right," she replied somewhat doubtfully.
Rapidly the sun rose higher in the heavens, and the wanderers started homeward rejoicing. For a few hours she had broken away from the worries of her every-day existence and a Sabbatical calm was in her heart. As for Walter, he had lost for the moment the aimless, care-free spirit, and in its place had been supplied the teachings of nature—and of God.
III.
"Mama, do you know where the rest of my dominos are?" asked Walter one evening a few weeks later.
"Why, no, son, I don't; you had them in the parlor last—perhaps they are in there under the lounge. Now I'm going down stairs to pay Mr. Simmons the rent," she warned, "so you be careful what you get into."
As his mother's footsteps sounded on the stairs, Walter contemplated for a moment just how he would secure the lost dominoes. The lamp was too heavy for him to carry around handily, and the only alternative was to light his little lantern, the globe of which had been broken and, consequently, the use of the lantern had been strictly forbidden. The desire to get the dominos, however, proved too strong.
"It won't take a minute for me to find them, and mama won't really care," he soliloquized.
A few minutes later a panic-stricken boy rushed to the head of the stairs and called, "Mama! Mama! The lounge is on fire!"
In terror he seized a basin of water that was handy and, rushing into the parlor, poured the water on top of the lounge. Flying to the window, he recognized in the darkness the form of the landlord coming from the village pump with a pail of water.
"Mr. Simmons—Fire! Fire!" he called in an agonized voice.
Turning about, he met his mother.
"Walter! Walter! What have you done? There's no water in the bucket!" she shrieked. "What shall I do—what shall I do?
12 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Ah! Thank God, Mr. Simmons, you've got some water—in the parlor there—the lounge!"
With an oath, the man turned the couch over and, carefully dashing the water here and there, put out the blaze. Fortunately, only the fringe and some of the stuffing of the couch had taken fire, but in a moment more the whole room would have been ablaze and a serious fire resulted.
"Oh! Mr. Simmons, I'm so glad!" she exclaimed as she sank limply into a chair. "Walter, how did you do it?"
"I crawled under the lounge to get a domino and kicked the lantern so it caught on the fringe," he answered tearfully. "Oh, mama, I'm so—"
"D—— such doings, anyway!" the man interrupted angrily. "This is the second time you've gone and set fire to my place, you scalawag! It's got to stop—Mrs. Nelson, you'll have to get out."
"What! After all the years I've lived here? No—No! Mr. Simmons," she pleaded, "you can't mean it."
"Yes, I do. You know I told you when he built that bonfire next to the shed that if anything like it ever happened again you'd have to move. I can't have that boy around here any longer," he stormed, as he started down the stairs.
The following week found the mother and boy in a new home, in Bain's row, just a few blocks away from their old home. They now had neighbors below, above, and on either side of them, the line of houses stretching for an entire block with but one partition wall between each house, while the front doors were so near alike that oftentimes an inhabitant could only be certain he had found his own doorstep by the fit of his key in the lock. It was a terrible blow to the widow to have been forced to move from the home where she and her husband had lived so happily, even though for so short a time, and where the now thoroughly repentant Walter had been reared to boyhood.
As the season of drooping, dying nature came on, her spirits fell, and lines of care and anxiety began to show in her face. Winter would soon be upon them, and there were warmer clothes to buy and coal to store against the mighty blasts that would follow the Hudson out of the north and sweep through the streets of the village.
All too soon the russet, gold, red, and lingering green of the village trees gave way to the downy white of an early winter. The coming of the snow gave Walter an opportunity to earn a few pennies and help out with the household expenses. He rose early in the morning in order to shovel the snow from some neighbor's sidewalk and paths, and again, after school, he
OUT OF THE WORLD. 13
marched away with the big snow shovel and his broom like a soldier going to repulse winter's bombardment.
The widow's health failed gradually, and she was unable to put in the long hours she once did. As a consequence, the family larder grew more and more scanty, and the question of food and fuel daily became more alarming despite Walter's efforts to earn more money.
"Mama, I don't want to go to Sunday school today," complained the boy one Sunday morning.
"Why not?"
"I don't know," he answered evasively.
"It's something unusual for you to want to stay away from Sunday school. What is the matter, child, are you sick?" she asked, throwing her arm about him.
"No, mama, I'm not sick; but I heard some of the boys talking about me," he explained, the tears starting in his eyes.
"What did they say?"
"They said my clothes were too shabby to come to Sunday school with, and my pants were long enough—for—a man," he sobbed.
For a moment she looked him over. Yes, for the first time in his life he was somewhat roughly dressed, and his pants were too long. To be sure, they were not originally bought for him, having been given to him by his Uncle Billy Nelson who had come across them while rummaging among some old clothes he had worn when a boy. Her mouth set firm to keep back the tears as she consoled him.
"Never mind, my boy; don't cry. Those boys have fathers to look after them, and I don't believe they really mean what they say," she reassured. "But, will I have to go to Sunday school, mama?"
"No, you may stay at home and we'll have a lesson of our own."
One evening the landlord called.
"Good evening, Mrs. Nelson. I hope everything is well with you," he greeted good-humoredly.
"No, I'm sorry to say that I haven't been feeling well of late and have been out of work part of the time. Will it be all right for me to give you six dollars on the rent tonight?"
The smile on his face quickly faded and in its place appeared the lines of a stern financier.
"You know I always require my full rent. I can't wait more than a few days for the balance."
"I'll do the best I can, sir. I'm not in the habit of holding back on my rent, but I simply couldn't get it all together tonight."
14 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
"All right; send the boy to the office as soon as you get the money," he answered testily as he stalked out the door.
The landlord was doomed to disappointment; when he called again, he found her ill and in bed—a nervous breakdown the doctor said. Notwithstanding, he required of her a promise to pay the balance of the rent at an early date.
Walter increased his energies toward providing food for himself and mother. As she was unable to eat much, he managed, by adding ash-sifting and the general running of errands to his snow-shoveling jobs, to keep them from actual want.
Christmas came, and went, unheeded, though one of the boys did bring Walter a knife from the Sunday school Christmas tree—the first tree he had ever missed seeing.
When his mother was able to leave her bed, she sent word for the collar man to call.
"Sorry, Mrs. Nelson," he said, "but I can only bring you work every other day; it is slack at the shop now."
The new year was but a few weeks old when a knock sounded ominously on the door.
"Mrs. Nelson live here?" asked the man. "Here's a notice for you," he said.
With trembling hands, she read:
"Green Island, N. Y., January 21, 1900.
"To Mrs. Florence Nelson—Madam: You are hereby notified that the rent for the month December 15 to January 15 for the house and premises located at 115 Elm street, belonging to me, which you now occupy, amounts to $8 and is now due and has been due since January 15. I now demand that you pay the said amount or vacate the premises by February 1.—John Bain."
For a moment she held the paper high in front of her, eyes cast upward as if seeking help from above.
"Mama! What is the matter?" anxiously inquired Walter, becoming alarmed at her attitude.
"Oh! Walter, we've got to move or he'll set our furniture out in the snow. Oh, Father in heaven, help me!" she cried, throwing herself on the couch and giving way to bitter tears.
"Mama, have we got to move again? Mr. Bain wouldn't be so mean as to put us out. God'll fix it so we can stay," he sobbed, as he wrapped his arms about her neck and mingled his tears with hers.
After a while, she arose and staggered to a rocking chair. Her emotion had been so intense that she was bewildered for a moment. She came to herself when Walter asked in a trembling voice:
"Mama, do you think we'll really have to move?"
OUT OF THE WORLD. 15
She did not answer immediately, but attempted to puzzle out where she might seek help in her distress. Her folks had long since passed away, and her native pride forbade the asking of any assistance from her husband's people, although Billy Nelson's wife—Walter's Aunt Angeline—had always been solicitous regarding her welfare.
"Yes, Walter, Mr. Bain is a hard man," she answered slowly. "I haven't a cent toward the rent, and he knows I don't have much work. I wonder where we can go?"
"The downstairs is empty in that big yellow house on Swan Street," Walter suggested.
"Yes, but the rent is as much or more than it is here. I guess we'll have to go over on Railroad Alley," she sighed, shaking her head.
"What! Over there? No! Mama; there's a lot of bad people over that way—they're always gettin' drunk and stealin'," protested the lad.
"We can't help it, Walter; we've got to make the best of it. Just because some of those people are bad isn't to say that we need be. Mrs. Moss owns some houses over there; guess I'll go right over now and see her."
Throwing a big, black shawl around her head and shoulders, she started out into the early evening. It was bitterly cold. A gale was blowing from the north, bringing with it a driving snow. She could scarcely see a yard in front of her, the snow and wind lashed her face so unmercifully. Fortunately, the blizzard was but an hour or so old, and the snow had not reached a great depth, although here and there, particularly at street intersections, the widow encountered drifts which taxed her strength to get through. Several times she thought of turning back, but the specter of an officer of the law coming to set her furniture into the street goaded her onward.
At last, nearly exhausted, she stumbled through the door of the Moss home and made known her errand.
"I'm sorry, Mrs. Nelson," the landlady replied; "but all our places are rented. We have got three rooms up over Mrs. Mulvaney, but we hadn't thought of rentin' them out as they were hardly fit to live in and would cost a sight of money to fix up."
"Just what is the trouble with them?" inquired the widow.
"Why, some of the window-panes are out, and the roof leaks in one room. I guess that's about all, 'cept the stairs are in pretty bad shape. You said you had to get out right away, though, didn't you. Well, if you can't find a place anywhere, you can have the three rooms for two dollars a month. If you can give me the first month's rent in advance, I'll have the window lights put in an' that'll help a bit. Then if you have bad luck and get
16 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
behind with the rent any time, it'll be all right with me. So long as a body is a mind to do the right thing by me, I'll help them out when they need it."
For nearly two days the wind, furious and roaring, bitterly drove the fine, blinding snow. "Most as bad as '88," was the comment among the older folks. Neither man nor beast could do much in such a storm—it was almost impossible to breathe the blizzard. Roofs groaned under the loads they were carrying. Below, in the streets, was three feet of snow on the level, while here and there huge drifts were piled to a depth of six feet or more.
Anxiously Walter and his mother watched the progress of the storm. Their food supply was rapidly getting low, and it was only with the greatest difficulty that one could get to a store. The storm abated at last, however, and human beings began to move about in the streets, appearing from a distance like huge ants struggling through mountains and valleys of sugar.
As business was dull at the time, the expressman moved the furniture cheaply. Mrs. Nelson managed to sell a bed, dresser, and some chairs which paid the expense of moving and left a few dollars for food. Big tears welled into Walter's eyes as he helped take down the bed which had been sold. Ever since he could remember, he had slept within its protecting form, and in his dreams—half-awake though some of them were—a loving angel had hovered above him, and always the angel bore the face and form of his mother. But it had to be, and, resolutely wiping the tears from his eyes, he set himself to the task of moving.
IV.
The troubles of the little family multiplied exceedingly in their new home, or rather, place of existence, for the house was certainly almost uninhabitable. True, the landlady had kept her word and fixed the windows; but the stairs were unsafe, and whenever the snow melted, "drip," "drip," sounded the water on the bedroom floor. And how the wind moaned under the door and through the warped panels thereof!
Then, one morning the collar man sent a pang of despair into the widow's heart—the factory had closed down for at least a month!
"What's the matter, Mrs. Nelson?" inquired the downstairs neighbor as she came in a few minutes later and found the mother and son locked in each other's arms, the former weeping bitterly.
"Oh, Mrs. Mulvaney; the collar shop's shut down and we'll starve, we'll starve!" she moaned.
"Aw no, Mrs. Nelson; you won't starve s' long as I kin make stew; an' besides, the town'll take care of ye. Look at
OUT OF THE WORLD. 17
me!" she commanded. "Me ould man's out of work half ov the time; yet we git along somehow. Come, drink some of this whisky an' you'll feel better!"
"No, Mrs. Mulvaney; thank you just the same."
"Ye don't mind if I take a drop of the creature, do you? It'll warm me bones. Here—hold the kid for me."
While the visitor was taking her "drop," the widow interested herself in the comfort of the little one and forgot, for a moment, her troubles. Drawing her chair nearer the fire, she unwrapped the shawl from his body and cuddled him close to her bosom.
"Poor little thing," she murmured, "oo don't get enough to eat, do you? No—and none of us do."
Just a few days before she had noticed the baby angrily beating his little fist on his mother's breast. His mother had peevishly slapped his little hands for it, little knowing that his was an infant's protest at the lack of nourishment that was so often his lot.
Her thoughts were rudely interrupted by Mrs. Mulvaney exclaiming:
"My, but it's cold in here! What air ye burnin'?"
"It's coal mixed with some cinders that I've got in the stove. My coal's most gone, and I don't know what I'll do for more."
"Why, ye kin have Walter go on the tracks and pick it up the same as my Pat; he'll show 'im how."
"Oh! But won't he be killed?" shuddered the widow.
"Pshaw! Mama, I can take care of myself," interposed Walter, who had quite recovered from crying. "Pat's told me all about it, and says he'll help me if I get too big a load. Say I can go, mama," he urged.
She hesitated. Was it possible that she had sunk so low as to compel her boy to go out on the railroad tracks and gather coal? But what could she do? Mrs. Mulvaney had hinted that the town would take care of them, but that was unthinkable—she would wear out her hands doing washings before she would permit that! Reluctantly she gave her consent, to Walter's delight.
"Where's a burlap bag?" he demanded excitedly. "Pat'll soon be comin' from school an' I'll get ready for him."
Just then Pat came upstairs, looking for his mother; and when the situation was explained to him, he was pleased with the idea of having Walter for a companion while gathering coal.
"Now, Walter, do be careful," pleaded his mother, tears starting in her eyes. "Promise me you'll come right home if you get cold."
"Aw, don't worry about him, Mrs. Nelson," proclaimed Pat. "I'll watch out for him."
It was a clear, cold February day. The snow had been packed pretty solid in most places and did not offer much of an obstacle to the boys. It crunched so sharply under their feet, however, that Pat remarked, "'Skeeters er' about!"
"Now, Walt, you keep right with me," instructed Pat, "and ye won't get into trouble; I know how it's done."
How cold it was out on the main line! A passenger train had stopped at the watering tank, and it seemed to Walter that the water almost froze as it fell from the tank to the tender of the locomotive. The engine interested him most—he had always wanted to get close up to one. She had three big "drivers," Pat called them, on each side, though they could scarcely see the forward one on their side of the engine, nor the cylinder and cow-catcher, because of escaping steam. However, Walter was fully satisfied with the experience when Pat solemnly assured him "she kin beat '999' all holler!" the latter being proverbial among the boys as the "fastest engine goin'!"
At length, the train started, the rails giving forth a frosty, protesting shriek as the wheels slowly revolved, sending chills down the backs of the boys and causing Walter to put aside the fascination of the thing and get down to work.
Along the tracks they walked, stopping now and then to pick up the chunks of coal from the ice-bound ties.
"Gosh! But this is slow work, ain't it?" said Pat in disgust. "And there ain't an 'empty' in sight. I know what we'll do: we'll get some coal from this here car," he announced in a low tone. "I'll sling it down and you put it in our bags," he instructed, glancing cautiously around.
"But that would be stealin'!" objected Walter.
"Aw, go on! The detective ain't round here this afternoon. You ain't afraid, be ye?" scoffed Pat.
"No; but my mother learned me not to steal; and besides, I don't wanna get pulled in."
"Come on," persuaded Pat. "You jes stand here between the cars and I'll pitch it down to ye! If anybody comes, we'll 'beat it,' that's all."
The arrangement worked nicely for a while; but Pat didn't notice the man sneaking up between the cars until he heard a cry from Walter, who, the next moment, was struggling in the hands of the yard detective. Pat bounded to the ground, and fled precipitately from the scene.
"Look here, kid; what're you doing?" demanded the officer, shaking Walter roughly by the coat collar.
"Nothin'," was the frightened response.
"It looks like it, I'll swan! With your bags half full of coal from that car. Who was that kid throwing it down to you?"
"That was Pat," answered Walter in an uncertain voice.
"Pat who?"
OUT OF THE WORLD. 19
"Oh, mister, I don't want to tell on him. If you'll let me go this time I'll never steal any more," pleaded Walter.
"Can't your folks buy enough coal without sending a kid like you out here where you're liable to get run over?" interrogated the officer.
"No, sir; my father is dead, and we haven't a scuttle of coal in the house. Mister, please let me take this home to my mother," he begged.
"Well, if I did my duty I'd take you down to the station, but bein' as this is the first time I've caught you stealing, I'll let you go—but mind, I warn you not to let me ketch you taking things that don't belong to you around here again!"
"I'll never steal no more," promised Walter, as he slung one of the bags on his shoulder and staggered homeward.
How heavy the bag was! Bravely he bore up under the weight, his breath coming in gasps as the folds of the bag cut into the tender muscles of his shoulders. How he wished Pat were there to help him! How cold it was! A wind had come up, and it seemed that the icy blasts reached clear to the bone. Occasionally, he unslung the bag from his back in order to blow on his numbed fingers and to give his aching body a moment's rest.
He was overjoyed, as he neared home, to see his mother hurrying toward him:
"Oh, Walter, Pat said you had been arrested!" she exclaimed anxiously.
"I was, but he let me go. Help me with this bag, won't you, mama—it's so heavy?"
"You poor child! It's a shame for you to have to do this!"
Reaching home, Walter was soon warmed, and his appetite was satisfied by a tempting dish of stew. The coal he had had so unfortunate a time in gathering, and which he had so laboriously carried home, came none too soon, for his mother had just put the last shovelful of the mixed coal and cinders on the fire when Pat came with the alarming news.
Just before going to bed that night his mother informed:
"The truant officer was here after you this afternoon, Walter."
"What did he say, mama?" he inquired anxiously.
"He wanted to know why you didn't come to school, and I told him that you had no clothes that were fit to wear and that I needed your help at home."
V.
The weeks passed. The widow attempted to secure work in several places, but met with discouragement in every
20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
case. In the end, she was obliged to call on the town for support—"The last thing we can do before going to the poorhouse," she told Walter.
Walter did what he could to help out, but as the winter was an open one, he had not been able to earn much shoveling snow. There was a rift in the clouds when the minister called and, finding conditions so bad, went down into his pocket and extracted from his meager earnings enough to buy a quarter-ton of coal. Mrs. Nelson had never thought of it before, but she now wondered why the church did not have a system for relieving the wants of the poor. Interested the church was, it seemed, in the spiritual welfare of the human race, but serenely indifferent to the physical well-being of the people. It was common talk among the congregation that several of the vestrymen were well-to-do—at least she had noticed that their contribution envelopes each Sunday were more bulky than the average. She had done her part in happier days; and yet, until the day the minister called, not one of St. Paul's had been to see her.
One evening a sharp knock sounded on the door.
"Come in," called Mrs. Nelson.
To her surprise, in walked Aunt Angeline.
"My sakes! Florence, is this where you are living?" she greeted disgustedly. "This is a fine place, I must say."
"It's all I can afford, Aunt Angeline. You may be sure I wouldn't live under such conditions if I could help it; I never was brought up to live like this, and it's pretty hard, I can tell you. There, Walter's got a chair for you, won't you sit down?"
"Well, Florence, you ought to have let us know you were having such a hard time; perhaps we could have helped you."
The widow's lips set somewhat firmly at this latter suggestion, and she said nothing in reply.
For several hours the two women talked. Finally, Aunt Angeline arose to go.
"Yes," she was saying, "I think that's the best way out of it—let Walter come to live with us and you go out in the country to Mrs. Smith's. The work is light there, and it will give you a chance to regain your strength."
(TO BE CONTINUED)
THE RELIEF SOCIETY TEACHER
With tenderest touch the sick thou must cheer; On the sad, pour a balm divine; The lonely, the aged, the worthy poor, Are now sacred charges of thine.
The International Council of Women.
The Seventh Quinquennial Session of the International Council of Women, which Council was organized in 1888, was held in Christiania, September 8 to 18, 1920. It marked an epoch not only in the affairs of the Council itself, but in the world at large, for few people realize the weight of public opinion which has focussed upon the League of Nations idea, and which was originated by a group of public spirited women, meeting in Washington in 1888, and thereafter every five years.
It is true, Utopian ideas concerning an ideal condition of human society have been entertained by mankind from the days of Adam, Noah, Moses, Abraham and Solomon, while our worshipped Savior himself gave hope of such a united condition in the Millennium. Nor have the Pagan nations been left without their dreams of universal brotherhood. Plato's Republic contemplated such a united brotherhood, and Sir Thomas More followed in his footsteps, while Bulwer Lytton's dream and Bellamy's Looking Backward, all held out hopes of universal amity and equality amongst men.
These were dreams, but occasional efforts were put forth by individuals or even communities who attempted unsuccessfully to make this thought practical. Politicians tried it in various war treaties. The women of the United States, however, led out, in 1888, with a practical scheme for uniting women everywhere upon one common sex basis. National groups or Councils were composed of various national bodies of women, engaged in some form of public polity, whether on social, religious, philanthropic or civil lines, and each five years the millions of women bound thus loosely together in national and international groups, met, through their delegates, and actually put into practice some of their splendid ideals. Witness for instance the gift of equal suffrage which has come to practically all the women in civilized nations, in the last decade.
The Council idea was born in the fertile brain and mighty soul of Mrs. May Wright Sewall, in the year previous to the first suffrage convention in Washington. Her close friend, at that period, and her assisting genius, Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, accompanied Mrs. Sewall to present this glorious 'idea' to Miss Susan B. Anthony, who was and will remain the greatest leader and organizer of the women's hosts, outside of this Church and kingdom, in modern times.
22 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Miss Anthony and her assisting generals had called an International Suffrage Congress to meet at Washington, in February, 1888. Seizing upon her beloved "girl's" council idea, she bade them bring the matter to a successful issue, which they did. Mrs. Sewall traveled and spoke to groups of women newly forming in Europe and America. Mrs. Avery, then Miss Rachel Foster, sent hundreds, nay thousands, of letters out into every Christian country. The eloquence and brilliant executive powers of Mrs. Sewall were paralleled by the sweet graciousness of Miss Foster's correspondence, and both were indefatigable in developing the "council idea." Miss Anthony and Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton gave largess of encouragement and stimulating creative criticism, from out their own wide experience and full vision.
The first suffrage convention, Feb., 1888, was memorable indeed. A Constitution for a National and International Council of women was put forth and approved, representatives were present from Europe and all parts of America. The following officers were elected for the National Council of Women of the United States:
President—Frances E. Willard, Illinois. Vice-President at Large—Susan B. Anthony, New York. Corresponding Secretary—May Wright Sewall, Indiana. Recording Secretary—Mary F. Eastman, Massachusetts. Treasurer—M. Louis Thomas, New York.
OFFICERS OF THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL: President—Millicent Garrett Fawcett, England. Vice-President at Large—Clara Barton, United States. Corresponding Secretary—Rachel G. Foster, United States. Recording Secretary—Kirstine Frederiksen, Denmark. Treasurer—Isabelle Bogelot, France.
The charter members of this historic National Council of the U. S. A. were:
The National Woman Suffrage Association. The National Woman's Christian Temperance Union. The Woman's Centenary Association of the Universalists Church. Woman's National Press Association. Wimodaughsis (a National club). The National Women's Relief Society. The Young Ladies' National Mutual Improvement Association. The Illinois Industrial Reform School for Girls.
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN. 23
The National Free Baptist Woman's Missionary Society. Sorosis, (the club representing, by invitation of the Council, the club movement, "until the General Federation of Women's clubs could be formed and affiliated").
In response to an invitation which had been issued to all known national organizations, not members of the council, 37 other societies sent fraternal delegates to this meeting.
The International Council of Women was represented by its American officers. The general policy of the International Council is indicated in the preamble and in Article II:
PREAMBLE.
"We, women of all nations, sincerely believing that the best good of humanity will be advanced by greater unity of thought, sympathy and purpose, and that an organized movement of women will best conserve the highest good of the family and the state, do hereby band ourselves together in a confederation of workers committed to the overthrow of all forms of ignorance and injustice, and to the application of the golden rule to society, custom and law.
ARTICLE II—GENERAL POLICY.
"This International Council is organized in the interest of no one propaganda, and has no power over its auxiliaries beyond that of suggestion and sympathy; therefore, no National Council voting to become auxiliary to the International Council shall thereby render itself liable to be interfered with in respect to its complete organic unity, independence or method of work, or shall be committed to any principle or method of any other council, or to any utterance or act of this International Council, beyond compliance with the terms of this constitution."
From the first, the "Mormon" women, representing the two old established "Mormon" women's organizations were treated with the greatest consideration and justice. The two "Mormon" women present in Washington at that charter organization were Mrs. Emily S. Richards and Mrs. Janette Y. Easton. Especially noble in her attitude to our women was Miss Anthony and none the less broad minded and sympathetic were Mrs. Sewall and Mrs. Rachel F. Avery.
Quinquennial council meetings with congresses attached to them have been held since that organization as follows: London, in 1899; Berlin, in 1904; Canada, in 1909; Rome, in 1914; Christiania, in 1920.
The Council held at the World's Fair in Chicago was particularly brilliant and most effective. There were one hundred twenty-six formal organizations of women present at this Congress:
24 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
The London Congress was perhaps as brilliant, if not as widely attended; the Berlin Congress was equally stupendous in conception and execution. The Canadian Congress was both delightful and educational, while the Congress held in Rome, 1914, just before the war broke out, was without parallel in the history of the women's movement. Singularly enough peace was featured as the triumphant note of that gathering on the hills of Rome.
At this famous Congress Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams was a U. S. Delegate, Susa Young Gates was an alternate, Mrs. A. W. McCune was present as patron.
The Congress recently closed in Christiania is the most unique one of all, for there were gathered there a group of women from nearly all of the organized national councils in the United States, Great Britain, Canada, Switzerland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, and France, while greetings were sent from the German and Austrian councils.
An intimate and most interesting account of this gathering was furnished by Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, from which the following items have been gleaned:
"The council meetings opened Sept. 18, with a welcome afternoon tea at the Bristol hotel. This was a very successful affair, we were introduced to people from all over the world.
"The new Aula hall was opened for the opening session at which the usual program of greetings and responses were given.
"Lady Aberdeen was, as usual, very gracious, her appearance caused quite a demonstration, and when she finished her simple, short, but most impressive little talk, she was presented with a wonderful bunch of roses.
"During Thursday and Friday we visited International Standing Committee meetings, where education, economic and moral standards were discussed.
"Saturday, Sept. 11, 9:30 A. M. marked the opening public meeting of the International Council; it was held in the Storthing building, and seats were assigned the different national delegations. The Americans were seated on the front row, facing the platform.
"I consider the opening meeting one of the most important, and certainly the most interesting. As Lady Aberdeen knew that her term of office was drawing to a close, she spoke very feelingly of her associations with the women who had been leaders in the Council. Then she asked us to pause with reverential silence for a time, in memory of the departed dead. Then she called the roll of those who had been called beyond, since the meeting in Rome.
"Of course we were particularly interested in our own Amer-
THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN. 25
ican women, whose work received unlimited praise from Lady Aberdeen. She said they were the original promoters and were women whose names will ever live in International prominence.
"Those receiving particular mention were Susan B. Anthony, Mary Wright Sewall, Anna Howard Shaw and Rachel Foster Avery; at this point a message to the Council sent by Mrs. Sewall a few hours before her death, was read.
"In closing her talk Lady Aberdeen said, 'Mothering power is what the world must have to bring it back to faith and love. In the Council there is room for all. We need a League of Nations that will teach us patience, tact and sympathy.' She closed by saying, 'And may our heavenly Father accept the dedication of ourselves to his Spirit.'
"A telegram from Dr. Alice Salomon, of Germany, 3rd Vice-President was read explaining her absence, which in part read, 'My absence is not due to lack of appreciation, nor an unbelief in the mission of the Council. My heart yearns to co-operate with you, but as yet my conscience tells me this is not possible. Until there is a feeling of equal adjustment, and we can cooperate in the League of Nations the German women must withdraw. As Germany is not as yet recognized and welcomed on an equal footing, she can never expect equal cooperation. For this reason I decline any further consideration of renomination.' Continuing she said, 'The war enabled me to love and sympathize with all who were suffering, so I believe, with ever stronger faith, in spite of the present strife and injustice love will triumph.'
"Lady Aberdeen expressed a desire that the women of the International Council cooperate to see that Germany shall receive recognition in the League of Nations."
"Mrs. Gordon, of Great Britain, presented a resolution to the effect that a telegram be sent Dr. Salomon conveying greetings and expressing regret at the present situation, but at the same time hoping that this obstacle would soon be overcome and the German delegation back, participating with the Council again. This resolution was seconded by France.
"As we had just visited the battle fields, the thought came to my mind, 'It takes so short a time to forget.'
"Cables were read from Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett and Lucy Anthony.
"Saturday the ministers of foreign affairs gave a very elaborate reception and banquet for the delegates.
"Sunday, Sept. 12—We were permitted to visit the art gallery of Vigeland; a famous Norwegian sculptor.
"During the afternoon the municipality of Christiania gave a dinner party at Frognerssetern, a wonderfully beautiful summer resort in the mountains.
26 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
"There were 1,500 persons present. No words could describe the kind and quantity of food served. Champagne flowed in gallons, cigarettes were passed, and by far a majority of those present smoked. In fact, as far as I could determine, Lady Aberdeen and the American delegation were the only ones refusing.
"On Thursday morning Lady Aberdeen entertained in honor of the American delegates. During Mrs. Moore's speech she apologized for so large an American delegation, expressing her surprise at the reported unwelcome attitude of the Norwegian ladies, but said the American women were so fond of Lady Aberdeen that it was her attraction that had prompted so many to make the journey.
"The Norwegian N. C. President made some explanation of the reported criticism, referring to the crowded condition of the city, etc., but acknowledged that the criticism had been made.
"Our afternoon with the King and Queen of Norway was one of the most pleasant memories of the convention. The informality for such an occasion was most pleasing.
"On Thursday afternoon, the Finland ladies entertained at the Grand hotel for the American delegation, and this was certainly a bright spot in the week's pleasures. I never heard such wonderful expressions of gratitude. The president told us that when word reached them that the first car loads of American food had arrived, women fell on their knees in the street thanking God for Hoover and America. For weeks children from starvation had cried themselves to death, and mothers, in their piteously weakened state, could do nothing for them but pray that God would relieve them of their suffering. Their hearts were so full of gratitude at the death of a child, and mothers were heard to say, 'Wasn't God good for putting my baby to rest!'
"One of the ladies said that on teaching their children to talk, almost reverently the first words learned were America and Hoover.
"After weeks of adverse American criticism you may have some idea of our appreciation for these expressions of gratitude.
"I was unable to attend the closing dinner party on account of the illness of Sister Smith. At 2 A. M. Margaret and myself went two miles to get Brother August S. Schow to come and administer to her.
"She, however, was much better the following morning, and left with the party on the 7:30 train.
"She went through the Fjords by a short route, and sailed from Bergen to New Castle. We went on with the party, sailed to Antwerp, then to Holland and into England. At the close of the Council, we visited London, went to Liverpool and were guests of President and Sister George Albert Smith over night.
THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN. 27
President Smith and wife are doing a wonderful work in the British mission, the feeling of opposition is intense, yet with Brother Smith's wonderful personality he has succeeded in impressing the big men, and has won people we have never before been able to reach.
"The voyage home was rough, but with the company of Latter-day Saints on board we managed to spend some very pleasant hours.
"May the Lord continue to bless you all; for, more than ever before, I realize your separate virtues and efficiency. Never in my life has my faith been stronger or my love greater for the work of the Relief Society and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. For your friendship and faith in me I thank you."
—Ida Smoot Dusenberry.
Our Utah ladies were:
Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, representing the National Woman's Relief Society, was an official representative being one of the ten United States delegates. She was accompanied by her daughter, Margaret.
Mrs. Lucy Woodruff Smith represented the Y. L. M. I. A. She went there from Liverpool and was attended by her daughter Edith.
Mrs. Anna McKay was in attendance also, going there from London with Mrs. Smith and daughter.
AS TO THE PROGRAM:
September 8, 1920, the International Council itself held executive and committee meetings. During these business sessions, the following topics were discussed, and the following resolutions were approved:
President's quinquennial report, Report of the committee appointed to select from authentic documents the data essential to a correct historical knowledge of the founding of the I. C. W., Treasurer's report, Quinquennial reports from National Councils and of standing committees, Propaganda week for I. C. W., Establishment of an official organ by the I. C. W.
"It was resolved that the International Council of Women strongly endorse the principle of the rights of all nations and a League of Nations, to prevent further strife and secure the well-being of the world."
Importance of appointment of women as members of the Assembly and of the Commissions of the League of Nations, as well as to the position of advisers and consultants was considered; Resolutions referring to education were passed; International interchange of public school teachers, Training in citizenship and instruction of girls in the laws of their country, Better cinema films, Resolutions specially affecting children were considered: International movement for child welfare, Rights of children born out of wedlock. Laws of nationality: Recommendation to national councils to promote legislation on above
28 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
subject in their respective countries. Recommendation of national councils for study of legislation bearing on marriage with aliens, with a view to proposals for international agreements to be drawn up for submission to League of Nations and governments.
Resolutions regarding public health: International bureau of public health, Closer relationship between departments of public health, Medical examination for emigrants, Recommendation to national councils to promote the provision of healthful and convenient housing as an essential for public health.
The following is peculiar: "That in view of the great benefits that have accrued to the United States of America, and to Canada, from the experience of local option in these countries, the International Council considers that in every country where the sale of liquor is carried on, a similar power should be granted to its citizens." Why local option?
Further were considered the study of the question of the endowment of motherhood, Endowment of mothers in necessitous circumstances, Women in Juvenile courts, Women on public committees, Economic position of the wife, Resolutions regarding questions of morality, and The equal moral standard, Campaign against traffic in women, Abolition of state regulation of prostitution, Study of best means of combating the spread of venereal diseases, State regulation of vice in mandatory territories, Segregation of persons proved incapable of sex control, Deprecation of recent exaggerations in dress and dancing.
The following is significant: "That the I. C. W. Deprecates the exaggeration in dress and dancing, which has recently arisen in many countries."
A preamble to a recommendation for a return to a simpler mode of life, reads: "Whereas, it is within the power, and it is also the duty of women to co-operate in the economic reconstruction of their respective countries, the I. C. W. Recommend all affiliated National Councils to use their influence to bring about a return to a simpler mode of life, and to combat, in the home as well as in society, luxurious habits which lead to extravagance and display in dress and amusements, and which, in the opinion of the I. C. W., contributes largely to arouse class animosity and discontent, which are amongst the worst evils of our day."
An interesting discussion followed the introduction of this resolution. The Belgium women objected strongly to any embargo being placed upon lace making, which might already be included in the luxury clause. The Irish, Swiss and Belgian women find their means of livelihood in lace making and embroidering and the representatives vigorously protested against this resolution, but the majority of the delegates favored the resolution.
The new officers for the Quinquennial period are as follows:
THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN. 29
Madame Chaponier-Chaix, president; The Marchioness of Aberdeen and Temair, Hon. president; Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, D. Sc., Ph. D., F. L. S., J. P., Madame Avril de Sainte-Croix, Froken Henni Forchhammer, Dr. Phil Alice Salomon, Mrs. Henry Dobson, and Mrs. Philip North Moore, as vice-presidents; Fru Anna Backer, corresponding secretary; Madame Isidora Sekulitch, vice-corresponding secretary; Miss Elsie Zimmern, recording secretary; Miss L. Van Eeghen, recording secretary; Mrs. W. E. Sandford, treasurer; Mademoiselle Helene D. Antonopoulo, vice-treasurer.
Madame Chaponier-Chaix, who is practically unknown in America, is nevertheless a woman of great executive ability and tender, if restrained, sympathies. She is very conservative, independent, yet ever of quiet enthusiasm for the aims of the Council, and she will make a very safe and sane executive for the troublous period which awaits the world and the Council itself. She was "President of the National Council of Women of Switzerland, 1904-1916, and again 1916-1920, and a member of the Executive, since 1899, when she assisted to found the Council. Previous to that date Mme. Chaponier had served for more than 13 years as a member of the Institution of Protestant Deaconesses at Paris, and in that capacity had principally devoted herself to educational and philanthropic work. After returning to Geneva, Mme. Chaponier acted for many years as one of the directors of the Union of Women of Geneva, of which body she has also been President. She has also interested herself in providing restaurants for women and workshops for women's work. For the last few years Mme. Chaponier has entirely devoted herself to the work of the National Council of Women of Switzerland. She has been delegate to most of the Quinquennial meetings of the I. C. W., and has often been good enough to undertake the arduous work of interpretation on those occasions."
The second vice-president, Froken Henni Forchhammer, is a marvelous linguist and a cultured representative of the advanced Danish women. She was one of the Danish delegates to the League of Nations just held in Geneva, and was the only woman who addressed the League.
Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon and Mrs. Henry Dobson are both well known English publicists. Mrs. Philip North Moore is our own charming and gracious American representative. The treasurer, Mrs. W. E. Sandford, is a splendid representative of the intelligent freedom-loving, yet conservative women of Canada.
Lady Aberdeen is the most famous, and best beloved of all public women, known nationally, and internationally.
30 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
On Dec. 2 and 3, our Mrs. Dusenberry, accompanied by Mrs. Ruth May Fox and Mrs. Alice D. Moyle, who represents the Y. L. M. I. A., attended the executive meeting of the U. S. Council of Women held in Washington, D. C. Mrs. Dusenberry sends a full and interesting account of this business session of the Council. She herself went down from New York where she is spending the winter doing professional research work.
The Council was not well attended but some of the officers present arose from sick beds to attend meetings, as colds are very prevalent. Reports of the International Council held in Christiania were given by the President, Mrs. Philip North Moore, and much discussion was held on the following points: The propaganda for a suitable League of Nations: a Memorial for Mrs. May Wright Sewall: the Woman's Memorial Building to be erected in Washington, for which Congress has donated the land, and which will be built when $700,000 has been collected. Five hundred thousand has already been subscribed for that purpose: the coming Suffrage Celebration in Washington; the future of the Council itself, to which discussion Mrs. Dusenberry contributed some very wise suggestions; finally, the place where the next U. S. Council Congress is to be held, brought out Mrs. Fox's urgent invitation, seconded by the Governors of several Western states to hold the Congress in this city. Chicago came forward as did several other cities with equally pressing invitations, and the matter was left for future action.
Our old friends, Miss Lucy Anthony and Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer were present and sent greetings to Pres. Emmeline B. Wells and old friends in Utah. Thus closed another historic gathering.
Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry.
"THE BOYS OF SPRINGTOWN"
It is delightful to know that the boys of the Church have a book published for their own special delight by a home author. Nephi Anderson is one of our best and most popular fiction writers. He has written many delightful books, but none of them will fill a greater need than the recent one which is called The Boys of Springtown. Full of quiet charm and real joy and atmosphere, the book is a safe one to place in the hands of every boy in this Church. Our locally famous author has enriched our home library with this latest publication.
Group of Delegates to the International Executive Meeting, held in Copenhagen, 1902. Mme. Chaponier-Chaix, the new I. C. of W. Pres. is seated on couch on extreme left, next to Mrs. Susa Young Gates. Standing between them is Froken Henri Forchhammer of Denmark, the new Vice-Pres. of the I. C. W.
World Happenings James H. Anderson.
Armenians defeated the Turks in some big battles in October.
Farmers in Kansas are holding their 1920 wheat crop for $3 per bushel.
Hungary ordered 15,000 Jews out of that country in October, this year.
Korea is insisting on independence from Japan, and a revolution there is probable.
Factories in the United States laid off more than 100,000 employes in October, presaging a winter of idleness for many.
France is reported as having bounteous crops in 1920, with little need of foodstuffs from America.
Prohibition was adopted in the four western provinces of Canada at an election in October.
Harley Mowrey, Sr., last survivor of the Mormon Battalion, died at Vernal, Utah, on October 21.
In China, in the province of Chi Li, in October, four hundred persons were killed by a mine explosion.
The Lutheran conference at Washington, D. C., on October 20, voted to give women equal rights in the Lutheran church.
Ireland continued in violent turmoil all during October, with much loss of life and property.
The Cleveland, O., baseball team won the 1920 world's championship in baseball, over the Brooklyn team, on October 12.
Great Britain, in October, renounced its confiscation of German property in Britain, thereby causing irritation in France, which favors confiscation.
Jews being admitted to Palestine are reduced to the number of 1,200 per month, until the workers' army of 30,000 can complete housing accommodations.
Russia and Poland agreed in October to conclude a treaty
WORLD HAPPENINGS. 33
of peace. Internal troubles in Russia contributed to the latter's willingness to stop fighting.
Coal miners to the number of 2,000,000 struck in Great Britain on October 16, and remained out to the end of the month, when a settlement was in prospect.
Mexico had some small rebellions in October, but generally the situation was more peaceful than for years past.
Poland and Lithuania were still at war at the end of October.
Striking coal miners in Colorado and in West Virginia went out in October, and troops were called on to preserve order.
2250 Haitians were killed in the last few months by U. S marines in Haiti, and government is investigating the reasons for the slaughter.
London, England, and Cape Colony, South Africa, in the British Empire, were scenes of fatal riots and calling out of armed forces in October.
The October, 1920, Church conference in Salt Lake City was notable for its large attendance and the forceful character of its Gospel teachings.
Chaulmoogra oil, a Hawaiian product used for the arrest of leprosy, is claimed, by a discovery in October, to be also a specific for tuberculosis.
Constantinople, under the control of the Western Allies, since Turkey was defeated, is officially reported, in October, to have become a modern Gomorrah.
Horace G. Whitney, one of Salt Lake City's prominent and popular citizens, and grandson of Bishop Newel K. Whitney of early "Mormon" Church history, died suddenly on October 25.
Elder David O. McKay, of the council of the Twelve, and Elder H. J. Cannon, president of the Liberty stake, have started to make a tour of the Church's missions in all the world.
The State Department at Washington, D. C., made preparations in October to ask congress for an available army of 2,000,000 men. The program seems ominous.
34 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Serbia, by official report made in October, is stated to have committed worse outrages in Montenegro than the Germans were accused of in Belgium.
Sylvia Pankhurst, daughter of Britain's noted suffragist, was sentenced on October 23, to six months in a London, England, prison, for distributing seditious literature.
A concrete ship, in collision off the coast of Rhode Island on October 29, sank with most of the crew, going down quicker than a steel vessel would have done.
Prince Carol of Rumania refuses to abandon his wife, who is not of royal birth, but was Mlle. Zizi Lambrino, and in October she refused to leave him, although offered $5,000,000 to do so.
Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, the well known Relief Society worker, and her husband gave the McCune mansion, at the head of Main street, Salt Lake City, to the Church in October.
Austria wants to unite with Germany as one nation, most of the inhabitants being German, but as the Versailles treaty forbids it, France seriously objects to the union, which may come later.
1891 delegates to the Third International, a socialist organization, at Baku, Asia, on October 17, took oath on a naked sword to destroy "capitalism," which means the present world governments.
Terence McSwiney lord mayor of Cork, Ireland, succeeded in starving himself to death on October 25, the 74th day of his hunger strike, in a London prison, where he was confined for his connection with Irish troubles.
Viscountess Rhondda, a British peeress known for her beauty and her unusual business capability, applied in October to King George, for admission as a member of the British House of Lords, now that women have been enfranchised in Great Britain.
Notable men who visited Utah in October included former President Taft, former Food Administrator Hoover, former Secretary of the Treasury McAdoo, former Senator Beveridge, Senators Lenroot and Kenyon, and former Congressman and noted author Adam Bede. The occasion was the highly important position of Utah in the councils of the national government.
Notes from the Field. Amy Brown Lyman
Reports.
Notice, Secretaries. Immediately upon closing of Relief Society books in December, ward secretaries should compile their reports. If the work of each month has been kept up to date, this will require very little additional effort. These reports should be in the hands of the stake secretary at the earliest possible moment in January, in order that the compiled stake reports may reach the General Office not later than January 20. Attention to this matter will be greatly appreciated.
Stake Conferences. The General Board is very pleased to report that Relief Society stake conferences and conventions have been held in all of the stakes of the Church, with the exception of Juarez, during the year of 1920. At each of these conferences and conventions General Board representatives were in attendance. These visitors brought back very encouraging reports of the work that is being accomplished by our great organization. Special mention has been made of the devotion and untiring efforts of Relief Society stake and ward officers, and of the loyal support of the members. The lesson work has improved very greatly during the last few years, and has attained a standard which compares favorably with the class work of other auxiliary organizations. Many excursions to the temples have been made wherever it has been possible, and hundreds of dollars have been collected by the far-away stakes and sent to the temples in the interest of temple service. The welfare work has received the closest attention, the great effort being to relieve distress and suffering, to remove handicaps, and to open up opportunities for those who have been unable to do this for themselves. The stake and ward officers and members are to be congratulated and commended for their services and devotion to the Relief Society cause.
Leadership Institutes. Following the general institute in Provo, and responding to a call made by the General Authorities of the Church, stake leadership institutes have been held in many of the stakes of Zion, under the direction and supervision of the stake presidencies and the priesthood. The class work in most instances was con-
36 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
ducted by the stake delegates who attended the general institute held at the Brigham Young University. In these institutes there were three departments: teacher-training, social and recreational leadership, and charities and relief work. Fundamental courses were given to the joint groups in sociology, psychology, and in addition to the regular courses in the three departments, lectures were given on many subjects related to the work. These lectures were given by men and women from the various high schools, by state officials, doctors, and juvenile court judges, and probation officers.
The courses in charity and relief work have been especially well attended. In almost every institute, all of the wards have been represented by a special delegate, and in most cases, by the president of the Relief Society, in addition. The Relief Society stake presidencies and many of the stake board members also attended regularly. Splendid, comprehensive reports in detail have been received in the office, containing copies of the stake programs, with other information concerning the work as carried on.
In several instances, county commissioners attended the relief department. In one instance, a county official expressed his great appreciation for the course and stated that his department would be on hand to cooperate with the Relief Society, and to plan with them for the families in the district. He was very grateful indeed that the Relief Society was so forward looking as to train leaders in the problems of human welfare, with the idea of gaining a better understanding of conditions as they exist, and a knowledge of how such conditions might be improved.
In Salt Lake City was held a conjoint convention of the seven Salt Lake county stakes. Chapel services were held in the Barratt Hall each evening which was crowded to its capacity, after which the departments separated for special work. The department of charities and relief met in the Auditorium, fourth floor, Bishop's building. The attendance in this department varied from 350 to 450 at every session. Aside from the regular delegates and ward presidents, all of the Relief Society stake presidents, with their boards, were in attendance. Many other prominent stake and ward workers joined the group.
Reorganizations.
North Sanpete Stake. The North Sanpete stake was reorganized on Saturday, October 23. Mrs. Wilhelmina Erickson, who has served faithfully for a number of years as president of the stake, and her two counselors, were honorably released. The newly installed officers are Elizabeth L. Christensen, president, Margaret L. Peel, first counselor, and Mina H. Sorensen,
NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 37
second counselor, with Tillie B. Johansen, secretary. Appreciation was expressed for the splendid work of the retiring officers who have spared no pains to keep their organization up to the highest possible standard. The best wishes of the General Board go to the retiring officers who, it is felt sure, will be willing to continue their services in the Relief Society cause.
Carbon Stake. On September 26, 1920, the Carbon stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Pauline A. Pace and her counselors were honorably released with a vote of thanks for their past labors. The new officers appointed were as follows: Mrs. Isabel Bryner, president; Zine Johnson, first counselor; Lois Stoker, second counselor; Florence Butterworth, secretary; Maria A. Mathis, treasurer; Ada L. Shimmin, chorister; Brighamina Downard and Mary Ann Young, board members.
The General Board takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation for the services of the retiring officers in this stake and of expressing hearty good wishes to those who have been newly appointed to take up the work in this locality.
In Memoriam.
Ogden Stake. It is with keen sorrow that we record the death of Mrs. Isabel B. Foulger, president of the Relief Society of the Ogden stake, on October 26. Her death was doubly sad because of the fact that it was accidental. She had left her home only a few moments before to go to the home of one of her counselors to consult with her regarding Relief Society problems, when she was accidentally run down by a street car and instantly killed. There is some comfort in the thought that Mrs. Foulger probably suffered very little, as she was promised in her patriarchal blessing that she would not taste the sting of death.
Mrs. Foulger had served in the capacity of stake president since 1913, and her efficient and faithful service stands out as a great monument to her name. Previous to this she served as a counselor in the stake for five years. While devoted to all the traditions and the ideals of the Relief Society, Mrs. Foulger was a progressive officer, anxious that each year's work should be an improvement over the previous year. She strove constantly to broaden the scope of Relief Society work in her stake, with the idea of increased service along human welfare lines.
Mrs. Foulger had been planning for some time to resign her position as president of the stake Relief Society, in order that she might, while yet comparatively young, take up in earnest her temple work, in which she was so greatly interested. From her counselors we learn that the Relief Society work in the Ogden stake is in splendid condition, every phase of the work and every department being up to date.
38 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
The General Board was represented at Mrs. Foulger's funeral by Counselors Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L. Smith, and Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley. The floral offerings were beautiful, and the services throughout most impressive.
South Sanpete Stake. A distinct feature of Relief Society activity of the South Sanpete stake has been a course of lectures on health and nursing given by Miss Sarah Tooth, a graduate registered nurse. The lectures were given to the members of the Relief Society weekly in the various wards of the stake, covering a period of eight weeks. The course consisted of the following subjects: 1. General Care of the Patient; 2. Demonstrations in Bed Making; 3. Baths, Kinds and Uses; 4. Demonstration in the Use of Heat and Cold; 5. Parental Care; the Well Baby; What to do in Emergencies; 6. Patent Medicines; 7. Tuberculosis; Hygiene, Sanitation; 8. Why physical defects should be corrected; 9. A few things a woman should know about the community in which she lives. All of these lectures were well attended.
In the various wards where members are unable to attend Relief Society meetings, the homes of such are visited in a social way and assistance given where needed. In some instances, hospital expenses have been met by the wards. During the months of June, July and August, one of the South Sanpete wards raised $212 which was sent to the missionaries from that ward. Committees on temple work are active in arranging companies of Relief Society women to officiate in the Manti Temple. This work of salvation for the dead is very near the hearts of all Relief Society women in this district.
California Mission. Mrs. Louissa W. Jones, president of the California mission, writes that since the October conference, three branch conferences have been held in the California mission, in Gridley, Oakland, and Los Angeles. In each of these branches there is a good attendance and splendid spirit. Since October 16, four Relief Societies have been organized in the mission. On October 17 Fallon was organized with Mrs. Olive A. Sandoz, president; on October 26, Vallejo was organized with Mrs. Annie Jorgensen, president; Marysvale, with Mrs. Ruth Sanson, president; and Fresno, with Mrs. R. P. Danford, president. Mrs. Jones reports that in the Binghamton, Arizona branch, the social service department has been greatly assisted by the Extension Division of the University of Arizona. Lectures have been available whenever desired. The Extension Department has complimented the Relief Society on many occasions for
NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 39
the splendid outline on this subject which has been furnished in the Relief Society Magazine.
Ogden Stakes Give Bazaar. The Relief Societies of the Ogden, North Weber, and Weber stakes gave a most successful bazaar on November 18, 1920. The executive committee was composed of Mrs. Almira Rich, chairman, Ida Treseder, vice-chairman, Agnes H. Stevens, secretary, Georgina G. Marriott, treasurer. Each of the thirty-nine wards gave a quilt, twelve ladies' aprons, twelve children's aprons; also four pounds of sewed rags which were woven into rugs. Individual members donated fancy work, plain sewing, hand painted china, vegetables, fruit, homemade candy, bread, pies, cakes, doughnuts and miscellaneous articles of all kinds, making it possible to have a wonderful display in thirteen beautifully decorated booths. Luncheon was served every day from 11:30 to 2, and a chicken dinner from 6 to 8. The bazaar opened with community singing and an entertaining program was given every afternoon and evening. All of the business and professional people contributed liberally and after all expenses were paid, the committee announced that $5,000.00 had been raised. This fund will be used for the charity and relief work in Weber county.
North Davis Stake. The Relief Society of the Syracuse stake gave a birthday party to their president, Mrs. Julia Tree, in honor of her sixtieth birthday. The party was held at the home of Mrs. Tree, where the accompanying picture was taken:
SYRACUSE RELIEF SOCIETY GROUP
40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Tintic Stake. The Relief Society women of the Tintic stake recently arranged an excursion to the Manti Temple by auto. The party consisted of 130 men and women. In many instances, the service was given to families who have been unable to carry forward this work for their own people. A donation of $94.50 was made by those who were unable to join the excursion.
Summit Stake. At the close of the Summit Stake Leadership Institute, which was the first one held in the Church, a very successful three-day clinic was arranged for by the stake Relief Society. Specialists in eye, ear, nose and throat work were secured and many children were examined. Those needing treatment were operated upon. This work was done at reduced rates to all, and free to those who were unable to pay for it. The Summit stake is planning now to have a dental clinic in the near future for the benefit of the children.
Brinkerhoff Triplets. The Brinkerhoff Triplets—three lusty boys—are one year old. Neither of them seems to be worried about malnutrition. The mother, Mrs. Joseph Brinkerhoff, of McCornick, Utah, says
THE BRINKERHOFF TRIPLETS
she attributes her success in raising these fine babies to the many valuable lessons she learned while taking the Relief Society nurse course.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
Mrs. EMMELINE B. WELLS - - - - - - - President Mrs. CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS - - - - - - First Counselor Mrs. JULINA L. SMITH - - - - - - - Second Counselor Mrs. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - General Secretary Mrs. SUSA YOUNG GATES - - - - Corresponding Secretary Mrs. EMMA A. EMPEY - - - - - - General Treasurer
Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Donnette Smith Kessler Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager - - - - - - JANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager - - - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
VOL. VIII FEBRUARY, 1921 No. 2
AM I A FAILURE?
The sensitive, earnest worker faces occasionally the bitter question of personal success or personal failure. The difficulty with the question is always the individual bias with which it is answered. There is no man in this Church and kingdom, and certainly no woman, who does not feel a sense of failure more or less often. Moroni tells us that the Lord gives us weaknesses, that we may approach more nearly to him. And Nephi's marvelous prayer portrays his own weakness and anguish of spirit; first describing the wonderful experiences through which the Lord had glorified him, he then exclaims (II Nephi 4:26, 28):
"O then, if I have seen so great things, if the Lord, in his condescension unto the children of men, hath visited me in so much mercy, why should my heart weep, and my soul linger in the valley of sorrow, and my flesh waste away, and my strength slacken, because of mine afflictions?"
"And why should I yield to sin, because of my flesh? Yea, why should I give way to temptations, that the evil one have place in my heart, to destroy my peace and afflict my soul?"
Men who have been measurably unsuccessful in business, women who have lacked opportunity for culture, or both, who have gifts without an opportunity of using those gifts, are too often the victims of great depression of spirit. Every man whose ambitions reach to the skies finds the measurable failure of his
112 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
mortal power to encompass the object of his righteous ambition. Children fail to take the counsel of their parents and parents grieve bitterly, both because of sorrow at the child's wrongdoing and because of the implied failure in the training of the parents. No one who has neither son nor daughter can measure the despair of the father or mother who is powerless to prevent the loved child from taking a downward course, and yet each child is as much a son and daughter of God as we ourselves are. Adam did not, and apparently could not, prevent the crime of Cain, nor did Noah, Abraham, Isaac or Jacob, much less David, Solomon, Eli, or Elijah, seem able through teaching or example to keep their children in the right path. And what, pray, shall we say of the son of the morning, who rebelled in heaven, where conditions were presumably far more favorable than we have yet had upon this earth?
Let us, once and for all, accept the thought that we must be succored in affliction and tested by temptation and seeming failure ere we have either wisdom or strength to climb the upward path toward heaven and salvation. The other day a little couplet was quoted in a newspaper:
"Then welcome each rebuff which turns earth's smoothness rough."
The writer was a seer as well as a poet, and well understood the basic principles of life and the keynote of all progress. The newspaper writer goes on to say:
"I think if a departed spirit really could look back and help the ones who are here, a pathway of progress and usefulness would be pointed out, and no matter how rugged or how thorny that pathway might be, the mortal under advisement would be urged to follow it, regardless of all temporary gain, ease or pleasure."
"The world has an entirely erroneous idea of suffering. Suffering, so called, is but a form of labor. It is either to eradicate grossness or selfishness in ourselves or to overcome outside obstacles."
No man or woman is, or can possibly be, a failure who has striven to do good and struggled to overcome individual temptation. No business man is a failure because he does not make much money. Some are failures who are very rich. No woman who has done her duty as best she could is a failure because she happens to be a poor housekeeper, has had no education, or whose children turn away from the truth. Failures in life are those who permit selfish greed, personal ambition, or spiteful envy to finally conquer and corrode life's fountains, and to prevent personal progress and personal development. These are poor miserable failures. Are you one of them? If not, then let us thank the Lord that the gospel is a gospel of hope, not despair—of constant repentance and regeneration, not final, or eternal, punishment.
EDITORIAL. 113
BIRTHDAY OF PRESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS
Again we are happy to record the coming and going of the birth anniversary, of our wonderful little President, Emmeline B. Wells. She will be ninety-three years old, just when the 28th of February is merging into the 1st of March. All loyal, and loving hearts in this society, join in cordial greetings to our honored president.
She is a living miracle, still hearty and hale, comparatively speaking. She presides over our General Board meetings, and gets about from her hotel room to the office, in her usual way.
Perhaps the most noticeable feature of her long, and useful life has been the undeviating loyalty of her testimony to the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and to the cause of woman. In her long career and even today, her ministry is marked by a swift recognition of any suggestion which would destroy or weaken the work of the splendid institution which we call the Relief Society.
The Relief Society has been builded first, upon the initial revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, to organize the women in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842; second, out of the precedents which he and his associates then established and which he declared at that organization should answer for its constitution and by-laws. Out of these two has grown a gracious and lovely structure of precedence and tradition.
The rules and plans established by the original society, under the Prophet Joseph Smith, have been built upon through the later labors of Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, and their associates under the leadership of Presidents Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, and Joseph F. Smith. But no fundamental changes have been made.
President Emmeline B. Wells has been extremely careful, during her own administration, to protect and carefully preserve the original genius and spirit of this great, and glorious society; she has been willing always that improvements shall be made in non-essentials; glad to permit old truths to be dressed up in new phraseology, and old forms modified to meet changing condition. This sturdy and wise president under the aid and counsel of the presidents of the Church has constantly refused to permit changes which would disintegrate and finally, perhaps, destroy the institution itself, founded under the revelation of God, by the Prophet Joseph Smith.
It is this particular service for which our gratitude should extend toward this wise leader and faithful officer. The General Board joins with every officer and member of the association, in congratulations to our president, and in our prayer ask that our Father will constantly hold her under the pavilion of his protecting love.
Guide Lessons for April
LESSON I.
Theology and Testimony
FIRST WEEK IN APRIL.
SALVATION FOR THE LIVING AND THE DEAD.
CHURCH ORGANIZATION.
All group life must be organized civilly and socially, or chaos would result. One man and one woman may live together, with their family, if it is small, and live without strife, perhaps, for a period, in a desert or on an island. As soon, however, as the family increases, marries and sets up other family groups, there must be rules and regulations, in order to curb the strong and to protect the weak. Two men may want the same thing, and each may have a more or less just claim. Who shall decide between them? Shall they fight it out or refer the case to some trusted third person? No two human beings see things exactly the same. All life is a series of compromises.
The need for organization in civil and social life is duplicated by the need for organization in religious or spiritual life. The laws that underlie human life and its individual complexities are similar to those which underlie life on the other side. If, as we believe, there will be no strife nor confusion in the higher spheres Over There, it is because those who enter the higher spheres over there have learned about the laws which banish strife and confusion and have had strength to live by them. May it not be almost as injurious to society for a weak person to give in and be imposed upon all the time as it is for the strong person to be cruel and selfish in his or her conduct?
There are many laws which pertain to the kingdom of heaven. And there is no line to mark the division between the temporal and the spiritual. Right is right, truth is truth, law is law, here and hereafter. If there is law, there must be those who understand and administer the law. The individual must be protected from the group, while the group must be protected from the individual. Organization is therefore a vital need of religion.
In the dawn of man's history, the father ruled over his family in the patriarchal order and united both civil and religious office in himself. The eldest son carried down the authority and organization. When groups congregated and built cities, more elab-
GUIDE LESSONS. 115
orate organizations were needed. The ancient world, both Hebrew and Pagan, had complex systems of civil and religious organizations. In the Pagan nations the priestly and civil offices were usually separated. When Moses made his people ready for group life, before they reached Judea, he united the civil and religious offices, in a way, as did Joshua and the Judges. But when Saul became king, and the two offices were divided, they remained so, as long as the Hebrew nation survived. Modern European nations are a compromise. The czar, the kaiser and the English king were, and the king is still, ex-officio heads of the ruling state religion.
According to the Encyclopedia Britannica, in the article upon church history, from which we have quoted, we learn that at an early date there were regular officers in this or that local Christian church whether that church was in Asia Minor, Rome, Jerusalem or Egypt. (The Jewish church was disorganized after the crucifixion of the Savior, and has never been organized since with a central authority or corporate government. Each synagogue controls its own affairs and is independent in its activities.)
The Catholic church makes no claim for organization of the higher or Melchizedek Priesthood. The Pope is the ruling "bishop," who claims his office in descent from the original "bishop" of Rome. Under him are cardinal bishops and bishops in ordinary. The cardinals are the princes and senators of the church, being as well the counselors or the vicars (which means a substitute) in the office of the functions of the pontificate. There are three major orders of the priesthood in the Catholic church and four minor orders. The major orders are bishops, priests, deacons and sub-deacons. The four minor orders are acolytes (an attendant upon a clergyman), exorcists (one who purifies from evil spirits by adjurations and ceremonies), readers, (lecturers in a college or university), and doorkeepers (a porter)." (See Encyclopedia.)
The countries are divided into various circuits, each one called a diocese, and each diocese is placed under the charge of a bishop, or his subordinate, an archbishop. Priests or representatives of the bishop of the diocese have charge over the unit congregation of the church called parishes in all towns or cities according to the size of the unit.
Early in the second century the three permanent officers of the church were the bishop, presbyter (or priest) and the deacon. Their offices were needed to administer charity, direct public services, and to discipline offenders. The bishops themselves were "substitutes" for the apostles and prophets, some of whom it is said still lived in the early second century. About the end of the second century, because of an uproar raised by a
116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
sect known as the Gnostics, who claimed they had superior knowledge, an assembly of the various bishops was held; and this assembly made up the canon of scripture and issued what is known as the "Apostles' Creed," which is still the basis of orthodox church creeds. Next came the claim of "Apostolic Succession," toward the beginning of the third century. At first each congregation was an individual unit, and the bishop who presided over it, rendered no special obedience to any particular council or synod or higher authority. Finally, in the middle of the third century, it was found necessary to establish "Diocesan Episcopacy," which means a collective body of bishops, who were to consult and decide upon church matters, In the fourth century authority began centralizing in cities, The elders or presbyters were not independent officers, but were representatives of the bishops. The bishop alone had the right to direct and control, until after the synod (a conference or assembly) was established, when the Synod government became the tule. A great general synod or conference was held at Nice, 325 A. D. Even then, however, the authority had not centralized in Rome. Constantinople and Rome divided up the chief honor and authority, In the fifth century the Roman Episcopate, or directing authority, developed int6é the Papacy under the Emperor Augustine. Then came Constantine with his grafting of heathen cusChrist and his apostles, The Protestant: churches, led by the various reformers, Luther, Calvin, Wesley, Wycliff, etc., in the seventeenth century protested against, first, the infallibility of the Pope who claimed and still claims the tight to pass fina] judgment on all religious condition. Among these were the selling of indulgences, the worship of the virgin Mary, the doctrine of "transubstantiation," which The organization of the various Protestant Christian sects differs greatly. They are divided into three forms of religious group life. First: Episcopacy (diocesan) represents the GUIDE LESSONS. 117 principle of official rule, in a monarchial form. The Catholics, Church of England and other Episcopalian churches form this group. Presbyterianism stands for the rule of an official aristocracy exercising collective control through an ascending series of ecclesiastical courts. All the various sects of Presbyterians, Baptists, Methodists, and their offshoots, belong to this second group. Congregationalism represents the principle of democracy in religion. Each local congregation of believers! Is a miniature church. The first and second group confine all priestly functions and ordinances to the governing officers. The third group asserts a common so-called priestly function for every male member. The Pilgrims and Puritans were all Congregationalists, and Harvard, and Yale Colleges were founded as Congregational schools. The Unitarians are an outgrowth of the Congregationalists. The old English Episcopal church follows closely the Catholic form of organization, having its government vested in bishops, archbishops and pastors, while the English king is the nominal head of the church. Consider the simple organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. There was an almost immediate growth of organization each step revealed to the Prophet, while both the Catholic and Protestant churches took centuries to formulate their plans. Within five years came the revelations which are found in the Doctrine and Covenants in Sections 20, 84, and especially 107. The Priesthood is the power of God to officiate in the ordinances, while the various offices grow out of the Melchizedek and Aaronic Priesthood, naturally and. Logically. (See Section 107.) Nothing can exceed the close-knit organization of this Church, except that more perfected form which doubtless will be found on the other side in the celestial kingdom. Students of sociology and history all unite in admiration and respect for our perfect Church organization which no man could devise, but which was revealed direct from heaven. This Church is organized on the perfect balance of the three essentials: First: divine authority; second: group control; third: personal or individual consent. God himself revealed the pattern and chose the first officers or representatives himself. The unit of the organization is the family, presided over by a man generally holding the Priesthood. Not a Priesthood held by a few men only, chosen by themselves, or by a governing body of men, but a Priesthood held by practically every man who reaches the age of discretion. The mother directs the children and the father counsels and directs his family. He in turn is usually connected with a quo- 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Rum of the Priesthood. Each grade of the Priesthood is a separate entity but is presided over by a presidency, and each grade from the deacon to the apostleship is in turn subject to the counsel, advice and leadership of the one next higher in authority. This plan somewhat resembles the organization of that great apostate body, the Catholic church. When, however, the Catholics reached the Pope, in their upward climb for authority, they had to make him infallible or perfect in his sphere of governing activity. Note the beauty and simplicity of the gospel plan; tle Lord tells the prophet, in the Section (107) we have just quoted, how it is that each step leads up and up from the deacon till we come to the "President of the High Priesthood." Thus making of Church an eternal round with Christ the great High Priest as the eternal head. The following is from Doctrine and Covenants Section 107:82, 83, 84. "And inasmuch as a President of the High Priesthood shall transgress, he shall be had in remembrance before the common council of the Church, who shall be assisted by twelve counselors of the High Priesthood; "And their decision upon his head shall be an end of controversy concerning him." "Thus, none shall be exempted from the justice and the laws of God, that all things may be done in order and in solemnity before him, according to truth and righteousness." The various offices in the two Priesthoods, are clearly defined in this revelation, the deacon, teacher and priest in the Aaronic Priesthood, with the bishop as presiding ward officer, the elder, high priest and seventy, with the Twelve Apostles and the First Presidency of the Church presiding over all quorum; and offices of the Priesthood. Later came the organization which placed the women in their supplementary fields of public activity; the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary Association. Thus every individual in the Church has a place in its active operation, sharing the responsibility and the authority. Nor did a council of men outline and define these offices and degrees as the Council of Nice did for the distracted and quarrel-torn early Christian cougregations in the fourth century. The Lord reveaied the order of the Priesthood, in all its bounds and possibilities to the prophet as defined in Section 107. The officers in our Church are brought before the local and general conferences of the Church for the suffrages of each member, men and women, at least twice every year. There is a complete harmony or blending of both group and individual right in this divinely organized Church. We should study the organization and order of the Priesthood as it forms one of the strongest testimonies possible to the divinity of the work. GUIDE LESSONS. 119 Thus is united the Pure democratic form of Government with the pure monarchial form, the People governing themselves, yet each amenable to that authority which finally centers in Christ rd. 1. What do you mean by Organization? 2. What can you say of the organization of the Church in The Savior's day? (See Ready Reference.) 3. Who commissioned Peter? 4. Describe the organization of the Roman Catholic church? 5. What was the Reformation? 6. How are the Protestant church’s organized? (See Sec. 26:2, Doc. And Cov.) 7. Describe the organization of this Church. 8. What do you mean by group form of organization? 9. How is the individual right or agency maintained in our Church organization? (See Sec. 26:2, Doc. And Cov.) 10. What is woman’s place in the Church organization? LESSON II Work and Business (Second WEEK IN April) LESSON III, Literature (Third Week of April ) THE MORNING BREAKS, THE SHADOWS FLEE. The first issue of the Millennial Star edited by Parley P. Pratt, was given to the world in May, 1840, ten years after the organization of the Church, and four years before the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith. It will be eighty-one years this coming May since the Star was first Published, thus Making it the oldest Church Periodical issued Up to date, as no other Church Publication has extended Over a similar Period of time, 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. It was on the outer cover of the first issue of the Millennial Star that the hymn, "The morning breaks, the shadows flee" was first printed. It is safe to say that few periodicals have made their bow to the world with anything comparable to this hymn. There are forty-four of Parley P. Pratt's hymns published in the Latter-day Saint hymn book, a greater number from his pen than the pen of any other author. Admitting the excellence of many of his other hymns, he reached his high water mark in this deservedly popular song. Not all hymns are poems, this hymn is a poem. It gives us a great and exalted message couched in exquisite and effective imagery. To accord with the exaltation of thought and feeling, we have language so heightened in quality, that some critics characterize such lines as poetic flights. At this point we shall devote a little space to describing two figures of speech generally employed by poets, for the embellishment of their verse, namely, the comparison and the metaphor. A comparison recognizes a likeness between two given things and expresses the resemblance. One of the exquisite comparisons of literature is found in Lowell's "Vision of Sir Launfal,"' reading, "His words were shed softer than-leaves from the pine, And they fell on Sir Launfal like snows on the brine." It is difficult to think of anything falling softer than snows on the brine. A metaphor states one thing in terms of another, an allegory is nothing more than an extended metaphor. When Shakespeare had one of his characters say, "Night's candles are burnt out," he used a metaphor, we know that he means the stars are no longer visible, and that the dawn is appearing, but we are greatly pleased to have the stars called candles. It is evident that he is telling us one thing in terms of another, and it gives us a pleasant surprise. The metaphor is frequently employed in poetic composition, and very heightened prose discourse. Elder Pratt makes good use of this figurative speech because of its rare beauty and effectiveness. The hymn is very fittingly given the first place in the hymn book. It is small wonder indeed that it should have attracted both George Careless, and Evan Stephens; both composers having set it to music. The story of the Careless music is interesting. Professor Careless was the leader of the choir of the London branch, while he was in England, a choir of which the London Saints were justly proud. He came to America in 1864, on a ship called the Hudson. On that vessel was a group of people who had sung in his London - choir. The Careless music to '""The morning breaks, the shadows flee" was composed on shipboard and named Hudson, which title it bears in the Latter-day Saints Psalmody. Elder Careless GUIDE LESSONS. 121 gathered his former choir members together, they learned the hymn to the new music, and sang it to the captain of the ship, at the same time presenting him with a copy. The captain expressed himself as very greatly delighted with the composition. So much by way of history and introduction. Turning to the hymn we find: "The morning breaks, the shadows flee." Light seems to be the most natural word to express the coming forth of truth and knowledge, as opposed to ignorance and error, whose usual symbol is darkness. Indeed, so natural is this process of thought that we have the word "light" in enlightenment. The poet likens the issuing in of the gospel dispensation to a dawn, in all its loveliness—a picture of surpassing beauty— which is dispelling the shade of night. Yet beautiful as is this picture, the emphasis is not upon the physical, but upon the intellectual, and spiritual. The combined power of this picture is only employed to convey the poet's message. The second line, "Lo Zion's standard is unfurled," carries with it a note of supreme exultation. Then follows the announcement that, "The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world." The figure as conceived in the first line is carried throughout the stanza, and the dawning is that of a brighter day, spiritually and intellectually, which is the burden of the poet's message. The second stanza reads: "The clouds of error disappear, Before the rays of truth divine, The glory bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine." The figure employed in the first stanza is aptly carried through the second. Again the poet draws his imagery from the sky; the cloud which is dark is the symbol of error. The first two lines are of prime importance. The quality of suggestiveness has already been noted in the lessons. Here we have it employed in truly marvelous fashion. Think for an instant how the rays of truth divine have enlightened the world, in relation to the Godhead, the premortal, the mortal, and immortal existences. Is it not at once evident that the suggestive quality of these two lines is poetically inexhaustible?
122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Then follows that rather extraordinary word, glory, which means resplendent, magnificent, majestic, etc. The three words, "Glory bursting from afar," are a very telling combination of words, hence the very effective lines, "The glory bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine." "The Gentile fulness now comes in, And Israel's blessings are at hand. Lo! Judah's remnant, cleansed from sin, Shall in their promised Canaan stand." The first line suggests scriptural promises concerning the time of the Gentiles, followed by the thought that Israel has been promised many blessings, which in the light of the restored gospel will be realized. Nor is Judah to be forgotten, for, cleansed from sin, by her long night of banishment, and severe persecution, she is to be forgiven and returned to her promised Canaan. This stanza is full on the thought-content side, and from the standpoint of suggestiveness; but it has not the purely literary merit of the first two stanzas.
"Jehovah speaks! Let earth give ear, And Gentile nations turn and live; His mighty arm is making bare, His covenant people to receive." This stanza is a repetition of the supreme message of the hymn, made specific by the expression, "Jehovah speaks." Nothing could possibly have happened as truly startling to the world, as that Jehovah should speak. The world might discover a continent of vast riches, delve into the secrets of science, and change the whole mode of life, but such an experience could not rank in importance with Jehovah speaking. Then comes the missionaries' appeal to the Gentile nations: "Let earth give ear, and Gentile nations turn and live." Elder Pratt was interested in a great mission; he was editing a missionary journal, and it is perfectly natural that the intense appeal of the missionary to the world should appear in this hymn. We should perhaps think it lacking in a very important factor, if we did not discover this appeal to mankind. Then follows the promise to those who "give ear," that his, Jehovah's mighty arm is making bare, his covenant people to receive."
"Angels from heaven and truth from earth Have met, and both have record borne; Thus Zion's light is bursting forth To bring her ransomed children home."
GUIDE LESSONS. 123
We expect condensed thought in poetry. This last stanza is a very excellent example of just that very important literary quality, quite indispensable in poetry. The Church was ten years old when this poem was written; the two most important facts in connection with the Church was that angels had spoken, revealing the Divine will, and that the Book of Mormon had come forth, hence the lines: "Angels from heaven and truth from earth Have met, and both have record borne." The last two lines of the hymn are a repetition of the thought, in language not before employed, that truth has come into the world for the ransoming of the children of men. The figure used in the opening lines has been carried through. The first line says, "The morning breaks," and the last line speaks of "Zion's light bursting forth."
SUMMARY.
In summarizing the literary qualities of this hymn, we note the fact that we have a great message expressed in beautiful and effective imagery; that the verse is pleasing to the ear, and that the quality of suggestiveness reaches the high water mark, in its power to draw on the information and imagination of the reader; that the emotional content is exalted, the diction telling, and the ideas condensed. It is a literary gem that bids fair to survive in Latter-day Saint hymnology and literature, as long as time and eternity shall endure.
SUGGESTIONS AND PROBLEMS.
1. State the message of this hymn in your own language.
2. What is meant by the emotional content of a poem?
3. "The clouds of error disappear before the rays of truth divine." How have the "rays of truth divine" affected the knowledge of the world in relation to the Godhead, preexistence, Christ's divinity, baptism for the living and the dead, marriage, and the life to come?
4. What meaning do you place on the words, the "glory bursting from afar," and "truth from earth have met," etc.?
5. What is a comparison? Give an example.
6. What is a metaphor? Give an example.
7. What words are employed to symbolize knowledge and truth?
8. What words are employed to symbolize ignorance and error?
9. Take your hymn book and select your five favorite hymns from the pen of Parley P. Pratt. Analyze them.
10. Have a member of the class analyze them; give a brief sketch of the life of Parley P. Pratt.
124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
LESSON IV. Social Service FOURTH WEEK IN APRIL.
COMMUNITY HEALTH.
Community health is the business of every individual in the community, not, as many appear to believe, the special business of the health officers. Desirable health conditions are secured only through the whole-hearted cooperation of all concerned; organization is essential to the accomplishment of the best results. In every city and town there should be a voluntary association of private individuals to cooperate with the local health officers and the local medical association in the study of diseases prevalent in the community—their source, method of communication, and means of control.
QUESTIONS.
1. Has your community a voluntary citizen's organization for the promotion of health?
2. What proportion of the population does it represent?
3. Does its members include a majority of the community's representative citizens?
4. Do its members cooperate with health officers in trying to prevent spread of disease by (a) obeying sanitary regulations; (b) reporting all cases of communicable diseases, and complying with quarantine requirements?
State boards of health usually control matters pertaining to health conditions, affecting the entire state, for example, drugs and foods; state wide epidemics, etc. In many states the state board controls operation of water and sewage plants. Local boards, however, usually control problems of sanitation and hygiene, and local epidemics. In New York City the board for formulating ordinances consists of a health commissioner, the commissioner of police, and the court physician. Their powers are almost unlimited and their ordinances have the force of law. These ordinances are administered under six heads of business, viz.:
1. Medical inspection, including (a) contagious diseases—disinfection, isolation, quarantine, etc.; (b) School inspection; (c) Child hygiene—infant mortality.
2. Food inspection.
3. Sanitation—draining, plumbing, housing, streets, etc.
4. Vital statistics.
GUIDE LESSONS. 125
5. Laboratories—antitoxins, etc., research.
6. Records, contracts, publicity.
QUESTIONS.
1. What is the organization and what the powers of the local board in your community?
2. Does the board make free examination of water, milk, and suspected foods?
3. Does it examine free of charge, sputum, etc., from suspected cases of communicable diseases?
4. Does it print for public distribution ordinances bearing on public health?
5. Is the public supplied with information on number of cases of communicable diseases and on resulting deaths?
6. Is it supplied with data on local birth rate and death rate?
7. Does the board of health publish and distribute educational material on health subjects?
8. Does it require reports on cases of communicable disease from: (a) Attending physicians; (b) Superintendents of institutions; (c) Proprietors of hotels; (d) Owners of apartments and dwellings; (e) Superintendents of schools? Are children excluded from school when there are cases of communicable disease in the home?
9. Is the board provided with sufficient funds to do its work efficiently? (Authorities state that 50c to $1 per capita is necessary for this purpose).
Local physicians, especially when organized, constitute one of the most important factors in the betterment of a community's health conditions. This is particularly true in smaller towns where the two or three physicians are often the only health experts in residence.
QUESTIONS.
1. Has your community a medical association?
2. Do its members, collectively and individually, instruct their patients in sanitation, personal hygiene?
3. Do its members, when requested, furnish lectures for mothers' clubs, parent-teacher association, etc.?
4. Do they report to the health officers births, deaths, and cases of communicable diseases?
Among the factors for prevention and control of disease may be mentioned:
1. Community housekeeping, which includes a pure water supply, clean milk, and other food materials, clean markets, clean streets, etc.
126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
2. Hospitals and sanitoria.
3. Clinics.
4. Educational agencies: (a) board of health bulletins and reports; (b) public lectures; (c) health lessons in public schools; (d) public health nurses.
QUESTIONS.
1. What is the source of your town's water supply?
2. Is it adequately protected from contamination?
3. Does the city provide efficient inspection of its milk and food supply?
4. In what manner are garbage, sewage, and filth disposed of?
5. Are the streets kept clean? By what means?
6. Has your community a hospital or sanitorium, or bath? Are they favorably located as regards light, pure air, noise?
7. How are they supported?
8. Are they adequate for the care of the community's sick?
In an effort to show that smoking does not affect the voice for singing, a booklet, issued by The Tobacco Merchants Association of the United States entitled, "About Cigarettes," says: "Caruso smokes cigarettes almost continuously." The press dispatches carried the news that Caruso burst blood vessels in his throat twice within ten days during the month of December, while singing in New York—another instance showing that increased blood pressure from the effect of nicotine is not desirable. Even though smoking should not noticeably affect the voice of a singer, any school boy or girl knows that a vocalist cannot long continue bursting blood vessels in his throat and "get away with it."
BURIAL CLOTHES
Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices. Call at our Burial Clothes Department. Room 22 Bishop's Building. Prompt attention given all out of town orders.
TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER.
Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286
Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month
For the past TEN MONTHS. One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have You Seen It?
Dependable The Deseret News Progressive
The Utah State National Bank
The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them.
Officers Heber J. Grant, President. Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. William R. Wallace, Vice-President. Alvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier. Samuel H. Keddington, Asst. Cashier.
The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine, of which they will be glad to dispose at the price quoted below:
12 Vol. Of 1915, Cloth Bound, at.................. $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1918, Leather Bound at................ 2.00 15c extra for postage
All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.
Bound volumes of the Magazine make appropriate gifts.
"DELIVERED EVERYWHERE"
Ice Cream
Special attention given to parcel post candy orders
P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City
Watch for Our New "Mountaineer"
Kiddies Allovers wear like leather. Strong Seam Overalls, Auto Suits For Boys, Youths and Men—they don't rip;
Roof Garden Chocolate (Sweetened)
4 Uses Cake Icing Bon Bon Dipping Hot Chocolate Eating
New, different, delicious—Roof Garden Chocolate is a sweetened chocolate that is at once a dainty confection for eating, a bon bon coating, a rich drinking chocolate and an icing for cake. In any of its four uses, Roof Garden Chocolate requires no butter, no sugar, no eggs and no flavoring. And it's absolutely no trouble. Complete and simple directions are on every package.
McDonald's New York Chicago Salt Lake San Francisco
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy.
VOLUME VIII MARCH, 1921 NUMBER 3
L. D. S. GARMENTS
If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request.
Style Price Style Price 2 Unbranded special, light wt., $1.65 90 Cotton, heavy wt. Unbleached, $2.75 15 Bleached spring needle gauze, 1.85 50 Lisle, gauze weight, bleached, 3.00 25 Cotton, light wt, bleached, 2.25 107 Merino wool, medium weight, 3.75 189 Merino wool, heavy weight, 4.75 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached, 2.50 55 Mercerized, It. Wt. Bleached, 5.00 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached, 2.50 120 % Australian wool, light wt, 6.00 100 Cotton, heavy wt., bleached, 2.75 145 Pure silk, 12.00
The only approved Garments made with wide flaps at back, button holes for better fastening down front, and set in shoulder pieces to prevent sleeves stretching.
Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 South Main St. Salt Lake City
ROYAL BREAD
This is THE bread for you and your family—the bread of guaranteed purity, quality and cleanliness—the bread with the ROYAL label, which protects you—the safe, nutritious bread of rich flavor and crisp, wheaty deliciousness. You should not compare the extraordinary high quality of ROYAL BREAD with other loaves. There is no comparison possible. Price is the only similarity and when you buy ROYAL BREAD you get full value for your money. Ask for the wrapped loaf at your Neighborhood Grocer.
Royal Baking Co. SALT LAKE
Grafonola
This is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop. It plays a record and stops itself without any aid of local operators.
$100.00 A MONTH will buy this instrument
Daynes-Beebe Music Co.
LOUDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH
BUY AT DICKINSON'S "the right weigh"
Where up-to-date methods make shopping a pleasure for you, whether you select your requirements, or order them over the 'phone. It is our pride to deliver to you the exact quality and quantity that you purchase. Our most valuable asset: "Satisfied Customers."
CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES
Hyland 60. 680 East Second South Street.
Latter-Day Saints Garments APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT
No. 111 Light weight, cotton.............$1.75 124 Heavy weight, bleached........ $3.00 120 Light weight, bleached............ 2.00 150 Extra white meres................... 4.00 160 Medium weight, cotton.......... 2.25 110 Medium wool, mixed.............. 4.00 122 Medium weight, bleached...... 2.25 116 Heavy wool, mixed 5.00 190 Heavy weight, cotton............ 2.75 118 Extra heavy wool.................. 6.50
WASATCH WOOLEN MILLS No. 657 Iverson Street Salt Lake City, Utah
What Do Your Children Read?
Guiding children in their reading is a big, vital problem. There are so many wholesome, inspiring volumes that you cannot afford to let them read anything trashy or cheap.
Co-operate with our Juvenile Department. Let us suggest Books that are high class, Books that meet the personal tastes, adapted to various ages. Write for lists.
Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah
A REAL self-filling Pen Guaranteed to Satisfy
Ask about it Write about it
"The Jeweler" 64 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah
Salt Lake's Leading Opticians
LOUIS A. JAMES and DONALD C. JAMES OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS
Globe Optical Company East 2nd South (Walker Bank Bldg.) Salt Lake City, Utah
The Relief Society Magazine
Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
CONTENTS MARCH, 1921
Mrs. Zina D. Young............ Frontispiece Return Journey................ Susan Teal Perry 127 Centennial of President Zina D. Huntington Young........ 129 Our Anniversary.............. Lula L. Greene Richards 137 The Primary as First Aid to Relief Society............. 144 Out of the World................. G. Milton Babcock 148 Anniversary Program............... Morag 157 World Happenings............... James H. Anderson 164 Editorial: If I were a Relief Society Teacher 171 Guide Lessons for May............ 173
ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY
Patronize those who patronize us.
COOP FURNITURE CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. ROYAL BREAD CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. DICKINSON'S, 680 East Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. WASATCH WOOLEN MILLS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. THE DESERET NEWS, Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Z. C. M. I., Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah. GLOBE OPTICAL CO., East Second South, Salt Lake City, Utah. KEELEY'S, Salt Lake City, Utah. LUMIERE STUDIO, Salt Lake City, Utah, 6 Main St. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City, Utah. McDONALD CANDY CO., Salt Lake City, Utah.
Notes from the Field............. 166
The Return Journey By Susan Teal Perry
Thou hast been to the gates of the city,— "The city that lieth foursquare," And caught a glint of its glorious light, A breath of its sweet, pleasant air; But the hand thou wert tenderly holding Unclasped as the dear one passed through, Thou camest back through the shadows alone, The work of the valleys to do.
It's a weary work, brewing and baking; The mending and making lags sore, When the dear one shares not the sweet ministrations, And needs such loved service no more, Oh, how strange that they never do hunger, Their garments ne'er need a repair, Our dear glorified ones who depended So much and so long on our care.
But fold not thine hands, for the folded ones Fulfil not the Master's behest; Go put heart in the brewing and baking, Seek to mend and to make at thy best. There are some who still say, "I am hungry," The Lord bids thee feed them with bread; There are others stand waiting for garments, Then haste with thy needle and thread.
Our loved who have entered the Gateway Have only passed out of our sight. Have been called from the work in earth's shadows To the sweet, divine service in Light. They still are our own "made perfect" In that newly appointed high Place; Where they know neither sorrow nor want, As they gaze on His glorified face.
Mrs. Zina D. Young, THIRD GENERAL PRESIDENT OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. VIII MARCH, 1921 No. 3
Centennial of President Zina D. Huntington Young
The recent one hundredth anniversary of the birth of our third General President of the Relief Society was celebrated in a delightful and instructive way by a joint memorial program given by her descendants, and members of the General Board of the Relief Society. The Committee on entertainment appointed by the General Board are as follows: Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde, chairman, Elizabeth C. Crismon, Rebecca N. Nibley, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Mrs. Donetta Smith Kesler. The above mentioned persons were associated with Mrs. Zina Young Williams Card, Colonel Willard Young, Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall, and Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, in the details of the evenings entertainment.
The entertainment was given in the General Board Headquarters on the evening of January 31, 1921, and was a charming affair from beginning to end. The music was as follows: Lizzie Thomas Edward, solo, "O My Father." Moroni J. Thomas, Mrs. Joseph Wood, Agnes O. Thomas, Sam Winter, quartet, sang, "I am a pilgrim," in the most exquisite style and voice. Relief Society Choir, directed by Lizzie Thomas Edward, sang, "I need thee every hour," and "The resurrection day."
Colonel Willard Young had charge of the program as master of ceremonies. The first speaker was President Zina D. H. Young's only daughter, Mrs. Zina Y. W. Card. She related many interesting incidents in the lives of her own mother and her grandfather's and grandmother's history. She told of the coming of one of the three Nephites to visit the Huntington family, just about the time the Prophet Joseph translated the Book of Mormon. She
130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
described, in vivid language, the pioneer home life of grandfather Wm. Huntington, in their New England home, and related the conversion of the family through the Martyr-Patriarch Hyrum Smith. She referred to her mother's first marriage, and the two noble sons born of that union, Zebulon and Chariton Jacobs, and then told other interesting facts concerning her mother's removal to Nauvoo, and subsequent life.
Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall and Mrs. Phebe Beattie, both eulogized the life and character of their sainted step-mother, in touching and moving words. Sister Jeanette A. Hyde followed with a brief but comprehensive sketch of the life and labors of President Zina D. H. Young.
Sister Zina's father, William Huntington, came into the Church with his 5 children, the three sons, William, Dymoch, and Oliver, the two daughters, Zina and Prescinda. Wm. And Dymoch were the chosen body-guard of the Prophet Joseph Smith in his life, his death, and they guarded his body to its final resting-place. Dymoch was the leader of the pioneer martial band. Who does not remember his stately dignity, his imposing appearance, as he marched at the head of the procession and of his band on our national holidays? Prescinda married President Heber C. Kimball, and her son Joseph is one of our well-known business men. Descendants of each of these five families were guests at the memorial service, about fifty of them being from the Huntington's and about thirty were from Sister Zina's family. Bishop Huntington of Springville who was present is the worthy son of his noble father Oliver Huntington, the Patriarch.
Refreshments were served by the granddaughters of Zina D. H. Young, and consisted of old-fashioned cookies, bananas, cheese and chocolate. It may be interesting to our readers to give here a sketch of Sister Young which was printed in the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association History, some years ago.
ZINA D. HUNTINGTON YOUNG
"There have been many noble women, some great women, and a multitude of good women, associated, past and present, with the Latter-day work. But of them all, none was so lovely, so lovable, and so greatly beloved as was "Aunt Zina." To be sure the explanation seems simple, but it only "seems," for it is anything but simple to live the perfect Christian life which was lived by this saintly woman for over eighty years.
"Aunt Zina was a perfect example of the teachings of Paul I Corinthians 13; yet, with all her tenderness and exquisite deli-
CENTENNIAL OF PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG. 131
cacy of motive and act, there was a sturdy strength about her which made up the heroic part of her character. She was extremely quick in her perceptions, and was keenly conscious of malicious conduct or slighting treatment; but her nobility prevented her from resenting ill-treatment, and she was ready to forgive long before asked to do so.
"It is related of her that on one occasion she was told that a certain woman did not like her. Aunt Zina looked quietly into the eyes of her informer and said, with simple dignity and sincerity: 'Well, I love her, sister, and she can't help herself.'
"It is an established fact that, almost without exception, the founders of the "Mormon" Church were descendants of the founders of the American nation, and it is a pleasing task to study the genealogical history of the men and women who have, under God, laid the foundations of this Church.
"Zina Huntington Young was descended from a line of distinguished ancestry. Lady Salina Huntington, who came from one branch of the family, was the daughter of the Earl of Ferrars, and a co-laborer of the famous reformer, Wesley. The pedigree of this family, and that of George Washington, the first American, meet in the same parentage, a few generations before either of these distinguished personages was born. The mother of Aunt Zina was a Dimock, and she was of the family of Sir. Edward Dymock, Knight Champion to Queen Elizabeth. The Dymocks were hereditary holders of this title for several generations.
"Aunt Zina's father was one of the patriots who served in the war of 1812. Samuel Huntington, one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence, was the uncle of this sturdy and gallant soldier. Her own father was descended directly from Simon Huntington, the Puritan immigrant, who sailed for America in 1633, but on the way died of small-pox. His wife and little children settled in Roxbury, and were under the direct charge of the famous pastor, John Elliot. Her paternal grandmother was a Lathrop, of the Black River Valley, New York.
"Aunt Zina was born Jan. 31, 1821, at Watertown where her parents had emigrated, and she was baptized in Kirtland by the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, August 14, 1835. Young as she was, she received, during this year at Kirtland the two beautiful gifts which never afterwards left her: that of speaking in tongues and of interpretation of tongues. She was a member of the Kirtland temple choir, and began, even in her youth, the work of her life—the teaching of the young. She was eminently gifted as a teacher. She not only had the gift of imparting information from the modest store of book-learning which she possessed, but she had that higher, rarer gift of imparting the inspiration
132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
of her own high ideals and character to the youth who were under her care.
"She was married in her youth, and had two fine boys, Zebulon and Chariton Jacobs; but the union was not a happy one, and she subsequently separated from her husband. She was married in the order of celestial marriage to the Prophet Joseph Smith, for time and eternity. After the martyrdom of the Prophet, she accepted the offer of a home, under the roof of President Young, and was married to him for time. She had one child to Brigham Young, a daughter, Zina, who is a worthy representative of a spiritual and sainted mother.
"Aunt Zina's mother died during the persecutions in Missouri, and the family were all so ill that only two of the number could attend the funeral. Her father died, also a martyr, at the camp at Pisgah, after the Saints were driven from Nauvoo. The Saints at this time were in the most terrible straits. Deaths were so frequent that it was difficult to find well ones who could bury the dead. Many were buried with split logs at the bottom of the graves, while the sides were lined with brush hastily cut from the roadside. It was at this time that Father Huntington was taken sick, and died in eighteen days.
"Aunt Zina went to Winter Quarters after the death of her father; and she crossed the plains, in 1848, with her husband's family, walking, driving team, cooking beside the camp-fire, and sharing, nay, bearing far more than her part of the burdens of the journey. She was an expert bread-maker and her salt-rising would come up when all the others were dead and cold. No one will ever know how little of her own provisions she ate, and how much she gave to others less favored than herself. After arriving in Salt Lake Valley, she lived first in the Old Fort, then in the "Log Row," a short distance north of the Eagle Gate, and later with the other members of the family moved (in 1856) into the famous Lion House.
"Aunt Zina taught school for many years, for there must be schools, and the men were all busy with the strenuous pioneer labors in canyon and field. She began teaching in Nauvoo; next, she had a noisy, yet merry, school in Winter Quarters, and finally opened a small class in her own small room in the Log Fort. After the Lion House was built and teachers multiplied, she turned her attention to other philanthropic labors, for her spirit was far too active, and her capacity too great, to make her satisfied with the small compass of her own four walls. She walked the difficult path of public trust, side by side with Eliza R. Snow.
"When the Relief Society was reorganized in Utah by Brigham Young, Aunt Zina was chosen as treasurer. Later, when the general organization was completed, June 19, 1880, she was
CENTENNIAL OF PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG. 133
the first counselor to Sister Eliza R. Snow. This office she held until the death of Sister Snow, when she was elected the president of that historic society, and she continued in that office till her own death, on the 28th of August, 1902. She was thus, for ten years, elect lady of the Church and no more beautiful soul ever occupied that exalted position.
"She was chosen in the early seventies by Brigham Young to take up the "mission" of establishing silk-culture in the Territory, and to her death she was faithful to the trust then imposed upon her. To hear her modest story of the suffering she endured in silence, while working on the silk farm established by President Young in the suburbs of the city, was to hear what real heroism means. She was afflicted with a mortal terror of worms, having a birth mark in the palm of her hand in the shape of a curled-up worm. But when she was called upon to take up the work in sericulture, she told no one of her affliction, resolved that she would conquer her terror, if she died of heart-failure in the attempt. And conquer, to an extent, she did. She fed and took care of millions of worms, and although there were months that her dreams were nightmare remembrances of her daily horror, she never faltered. She lived to see the silk industry fostered and made comparatively successful through legislative enactment. And she wore, for many years, home-made silk dresses as her best attire.
"In no other line of work and effort was Aunt Zina better known and more appreciated than in her ministrations to the sick and dying in the household of faith. She was an angel of hope and faith to thousands and thousands of the Latter-day Saints. Who has not seen the heavenly comfort and faith beaming from her eye as she knelt over the sick or soothed the mourner! In those early days, whose child was not nursed back to health, or robed for its last long sleep, by the tender hands of this angelic woman! What household was not made better, purer, holier far, because of the presence of this saintly woman and womanly saint!
"She was early educated in the simple mysteries of obstetrics by a visiting physician to the Territory of Utah, Dr. Mary Barker, and ever after she was called from her home in season and out of season, to preside as high priestess at the altar of birth. She heard the birth-cry of more children than any other woman in Utah. And, withal, she bore three, and reared a large family of her husband's children. Col. Willard Young, Mrs. Mary Y. Croxall, Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall and Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie were as near and dear to her as if she had borne them in the flesh. And her memory, to them, is as sweet and sacred as is their own saintly mother, Clara Chase Young, who died at the
134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
birth of Phebe. Aunt Zina took the children into her home and heart.
"She was the soul of generosity, and yet not lavish; she was forgiving to a fault, and still she always knew when people assailed her. She was eloquent, and had a personal magnetism which attracted the merest stranger instantly to her side. She was sweetly proud, and her soul was filled with an exquisite dignity.
"She labored for years as a high priestess, first in the Endowment House, and then in the Salt Lake Temple, where she presided among the women workers to the day of her death.
"In the work in the Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association, Aunt Zina's work was co-equal with the labors of Sister Eliza R. Snow. Together they traveled, Sister Snow's ringing challenge penetrating into the very depths of the girls' minds and brains, while Aunt Zina's loving appeal sank into their hearts and distilled upon their souls like the dews upon the thirsty hills around their valley homes. They traveled thousands and thousands of miles, mostly in carriages or wagons, holding two and sometimes four meetings a day, organizing branches of the Retrenchment, or Mutual Improvement, Associations, meeting with the Relief Societies, "preaching up" silk, or the loyal support of home industry; securing subscribers to the Womans Exponent; urging the women and the girls to study well their responsibilities, as mothers, wives and daughters. Then, one meeting dismissed, the same audience would assemble while these two orators and organizers would call a session of the Suffrage Society, or, perhaps, a meeting of the children's Primary Associations. And in this taxing and yet glorious life this woman, these women, lived, labored, suffered and passed to their rewards."
The death of Eliza R. Snow occurred on December 5, 1887. At the following April conference, Zina D. H. Young was sustained as General President. The following notice appeared in the Woman's Exponent, April 15, 1888:
"On Sunday afternoon, April 8, Apostle F. D. Richards presented the authorities of the Church to be voted for, and all were sustained in their places as at the previous conference in October.
"Apostle Richards stated that it had been deemed advisable to omit the full statistical report of the Church, and of the Relief Society, Young Ladies' and Primary Associations, at the present conference. Our late lamented sister, Eliza R. Snow Smith, has been president of the Relief Society ever since its organization in these mountains, and has labored with unexampled diligence for its welfare and advancement. Her death now leaves
CENTENNIAL OF PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG. 135
the organization without a president. Sister Zina D. Young was her first counselor. It is now moved and seconded that she be made president. Sister Young was chosen by unanimous vote. The selection of her counselors was left for further consideration. The following general officers of the Relief Society were then sustained: Sarah M. Kimball, secretary; Romania B. Pratt, assistant secretary; M. Isabella Horne, treasurer."
At the October conference following Sister Young chose her counselors; the first counselor being Bathsheba W. Smith, the second, Jane S. Richards, Secretary, Sarah M. Kimball. Romania B. Penrose who had been named at the April General Conference as Treasurer was made assistant General Secretary, while Mary Isabella Horne was appointed as General Treasurer, with Emmeline B. Wells, as Corresponding Secretary, and most of these officers continued in service until death claimed our beloved President Zina D. H. Young, which occurred, as has been stated, August 28, 1902.
During the administration of President Zina D. H. Young, she traveled much among the Relief Societies, exhorting the sisters and inspiring them to diligence in their various labors. She encouraged the establishment of nurses classes, and fostered the growth of the movement organized by Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, to establish nurse class work in direct association with our Relief Societies. It was during Aunt Zina's administration that statehood came to Utah, and she took an active part in traveling throughout the state, urging the inclusion of full voting privileges for women in the new Constitutional Convention. She was not a delegate to that Convention, but was in constant attendance, and encouraged the friends of the Suffrage movement, while her name appears at the head of the mammoth list of women petitioners, who poured in their appeals to the Convention, in behalf of restoring the very precious elective privilege which Congress had taken away from the territory in the Edmunds-Tucker Bill of 1887-1888. She presided at mass meetings of her sex, and directed the general conferences of the Relief Society with her usual charm and dignity. She called the first general conference of the Relief Society, April 6, 1889. In that historic conference the following stakes made response to the call as follows: Bannock, Bear Lake, Box Elder, Davis, Emery, Juab, Kanab, Millard, Oneida, Salt Lake, St. George, San Pete, Summit, Weber, Morgan (presidents), Beaver, Parowan, Panguitch, San Juan (counselors). President Zina D, H. Young, was the principal speaker on that memorable occasion, when the sisters gathered from all
136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
over the inter-mountain region for the first time in formal conference. She witnessed the gradual extinction of the silk industry, which she had so lovingly fostered and built up, because of commercial conditions, and because of the action taken by the government at Washington, in regard to duty on the raw silk. She also was present at the demise of the Deseret Hospital movement, but assisted with all her mind and might, in the establishment of our beautiful Latter-day Saint Hospital, which practically absorbed the woman's separate hospital movement. Many beautiful parties were given for her, sometimes by the General Board of the Relief Society, but far more frequently by her loving daughters, Maria Y. Dougall and Phebe Y. Beatie. Her own beloved pioneer daughter, Zina, had moved to Canada, and lived there during her mother's administrative labors in the General Board of the Relief Society. She made a trip to the Sandwich Islands and one to the eastern states, speaking in public and private in explanation of her religious beliefs and proving by her presence the falsity of many stories concerning the women of her people. President Zina D. H. Young died beloved and mourned by her children, her friends, and her people. The joy in the hearts of those who knew her consists in the anticipation of the renewal of happy association with "Aunt Zina" in her glorified home in the Celestial Kingdom.
THE HAWAIIAN TEMPLE.
A pamphlet describing the Hawaiian Temple, with an accompanying statement, concerning the purposes for which it has been built, and beautifully illustrated, has just been published by the Church. The former chief recorder of the Salt Lake Temple, and now the research recorder, Duncan M. McAllister, is the author of this beautiful booklet. So clear and simple are the descriptions of the work done, that every young person would do well to read this book as a little preliminary, before going into the Temple themselves.
Our Anniversary By Lula L. Greene Richards
RAYS FROM SOME OF THE LOWER LIGHTS
SUGGESTIVE NOTES FOR THE "17TH OF MARCH," 1921.
In reviewing incidents of the early history of the Latter-day Saints, many and varied trends of thought are aroused. It is not an infrequent occurrence to come across things which appear of much significance, but to which little importance seems to have been attached by our historians. In many such instances, however, it may be believed that the items which seem to have been overlooked have probably never been brought to the notice of the diligent and energetic searchers, rather than that they have been slighted or underestimated in value. Any of the very few members of the Church still living who saw the Prophet Joseph Smith, or who witnessed any of the early experiences through which the Church passed, will do well to leave a written testimony of some of their impressions and their knowledge of such things, for the satisfaction and strengthening of faith in the younger generations. Descendants or friends of any of these honored veterans will be doing good service to the general public, to secure such information and have it preserved even if but little of it might appear in some of our Church publications.
In years past it has been the pleasant and reverential way of the Relief Society, in commemorating the day of its original organization, to dwell largely upon the outlines of that great event possibly to the consuming of so much time, so that minor happenings could scarcely be referred to. The several presidents of the general organization with their immediate associates have been affectionately and justly cited and honored before the different branches of the Society without limitation on all such occasions. How would it be if for "one day" this notable year, we plan a slightly different program? After a brief survey of the Relief Society and its more prominent workers, since its incipiency, there might be instructive and inspirational references made to some of the lesser lights, their characters and works, quite properly remembering also some local lights still burning "on this side." A suggestive example is here given which may be read and builded upon where it is considered practicable
THE DAY WE CELEBRATE
This great and magnificent organization of the Latter-day Saints Relief Society, we will remember, was first organized by
138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo, Illinois, on the 17th of March, 1842. There were eighteen charter members whose names are here given and brief sketches might be given where obtainable, in the local wards, of some of the less prominent ones who have hitherto received little attention. Interesting incidents in the lives of early members of the Church may also be cited: Mrs. Emma Smith, Mrs. Sarah M. Cleveland, Phebe Ann Hawkes, Elizabeth Jones, Sophia Packard, Phillinda Merrick, Martha Knight, Desdemona Fullmer, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Bathsheba W. Smith, Phebe M. Wheeler, Elvira A. Coles, Margaret A. Cook, Sarah M. Kimball, Eliza R. Snow, Sophia Robinson, Leonora Taylor, Sophia R. Marks.
First General Treasurer of the Relief Society:
MRS. ELVIRA A. COLES (SMITH) HOLMES
This sketch was prepared by Mrs. Phebe L. Holmes Welling
Elvira Anna Coles was the daughter of Austin and Phoebe Wilber Coles. She was born on the 23rd of November, 1813, at Unadilla, Otsego county, New York. She joined the Church soon after its organization and in time went to live in the prophet's home, in Nauvoo, to assist his wife, Emma, in her household duties. She was General Treasurer in the first Relief Society (organized by the prophet, March 17, 1842, in Nauvoo). She was subsequently sealed for time and eternity to the Prophet Joseph. After the martyrdom of the Prophet, she was married to Jonathan H. Holmes for time—he being a widower. Brother Holmes had one child, having previously buried his wife Marietta Carter with her second child, an infant. He, too, was an inmate of the prophet's family, being the prophet's body-guard. Sister Elvira, after her marriage to Brother Holmes, took charge of the little motherless girl, Sarah Holmes. To this union of Jonathan and Elvira was born five daughters, two of whom died in early childhood. Sister Coles Holmes passed through the trials and hardships that were heaped upon the people at that time, without murmur-
OUR ANNIVERSARY. 139
ing. Her husband being one of the noble volunteers of the Mormon Battalion, she was left in Winter Quarters, under very trying circumstances, in a small log house, with no doors or windows, except quilts hung up to break the wind or rain. Through exposure and want, she buried her first child Lucy. After the departure of her husband with the Battalion, in course of time, she gathered her scant belongings together, got her wagon, oxen and cow, which constituted her team, and set out on the long march with the brave pioneers of 1847. She walked and drove her own oxen and cow team almost the entire journey. She experienced many things worthy of note if time and space would permit. One incident, however, I will relate; on one occasion her cow lost a shoe, which rendered her unable to travel. Sister Holmes reported the condition to her captain, and he informed her that she had better leave her wagon and the little girl, Sarah, with the rest of the company and go back a distance of about ten miles to a company who had stayed behind to recruit. This company had a blacksmith with them whom she could no doubt persuade to come on and fit a shoe to her cow's foot. She did so, walking that distance alone with faith in the Lord that he would protect her from wild beasts or Indians. She reached the second company in safety and after resting, the blacksmith accompanied her ten miles on to the first company where her cow was, and after the shoe was replaced properly, she had no further trouble, in that regard. She came into the valley of the Great Salt Lake in July, of 1847, where she made her home in what was then known as the "Old Fort." She taught one of the first schools held in the Old Fort, took sego and thistle roots, also wolf meat in payment for teaching, with only a scant supply of bran, for bread. Her husband joined her as soon as possible after the Battalion was disbanded. They soon after moved to Farmington, Davis county, where they made their home. Sister Holmes worked hard to assist her husband in making a home; she made butter and cheese, which they sold in the Old Fort, to supply themselves with other necessities; she also spun wool, flax and cotton of their own raising and wove the same into cloth. She was a visiting teacher in the first Relief Society organized in Farmington, where she labored till her death. She was a faithful, true Latter-day Saint, for she not only preached but practiced every principle contained in the gospel. She died through hardships and exposure at the age of 58 on the 10th of March, 1871, at Farmington, leaving her husband
140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
and his other wife to care for her children. The "little Sarah" was then grown-up and married. Her three surviving daughters all married the late Job Welling. They bore to him twenty-one children. One mother is still living. (The writer.) The sisters have today one hundred and twenty-seven grandchildren and numerous great-grandchildren. Brother Job Welling has today 20 living children. His first wife Frances T. Yeoman of England bore him seven children, five of whom died in infancy, two are still living who contribute to the 127 grandchildren. Brother Job and his wife Frances crossed the plains in the first hand-cart company and buried their first little son on the plains of Iowa. They, too, were faithful and true to every principle and both died at Farmington. Brother Jonathan H. Holmes lived to the age of 75, remaining true, through life and in death, to the principles taught by the Prophet Joseph Smith.
(Note: Two of our gifted and genial state and Church leaders, Congressman Milton H. Welling, Arthur Welling (head of the Lund School) are descendants of this Welling family. This sketch was prepared from an original autobiographical sketch now in the Historian's Office:
DESDEMONA WADSWORTH FULLMER SMITH
Desdemona was the daughter of Peter and Susannah Yeffers Fullmer, born at Huntington, Luzern county, Pennsylvania, October 6, 1809. Reared by religious and conscientious parents, she was a dutiful and prayerful child. When about thirteen years old she prayed much that the Lord would let her know which religious sect she ought to join. And when she heard the gospel preached by the Latter-day Saints she recognized it as the truth. She was baptized, in 1836, by Elder John P. Greene. Soon afterwards she removed to Kirtland, and from that time on she bravely shared with the Saints in all their persecutions and sufferings. With her brother D. And Ram, living near Haun's Mill at the time of the terrible massacre of the Saints there, she was obliged to secrete herself in the woods with
OUR ANNIVERSARY. 141
others and hide with them while the dreadful carnage was going on. How long that horrible night must have seemed to them all! From that time until her death she was never heard to speak of this terrible event without manifesting a tender spirit, and she would say, "God's overruling Providence protected His faithful Saints." She was married in the order of celestial marriage to President Joseph Smith, and after his martyrdom was married to John Smith, for time. Sister Desdemona lived in Nauvoo and later came to the west with the body of the Saints. She took a very active part in Relief Society work, and in the work of the temple. She was faithful to the end in keeping her covenants with the Lord. A beautiful trait in her character was her faithfulness to those she loved and especially her love for the Prophet Joseph. She remarked a few years before her death, "I have thought sometimes that perhaps some people thought I was foolish in my devotion to the Prophet Joseph, but I want to say
that. I shall remain true to Joseph always." At a birthday party given for "Aunt" Prescinda Kimball in her home, September 7. A few months previous to Desdemona's death, she participated with the others in doing honor to the guest of the occasion. Desdemona was there greatly admired for her sweet humility and the integrity and love she manifested towards those who, the Prophet who had introduced it, and brought light and happiness into the world. Younger women were blessed that were in her presence. She died 9 Feb. 1886, in Salt Lake City.
NANCY ZERVIAH GREENE
When Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, Joseph Young, and others visited Kirtland and met the Prophet Joseph Smith for the first time, John P. Greene was one of the party. He was a brother-in-law of the Youngs, having married their sister Rhoda. In a notable meeting where the gifts of the restored gospel were manifested in great power during the visit of those men, the gift of tongues rested upon John P. Greene. The interpretation was given by the Prophet and he bore witness that Brother Greene had spoken in an ancient Indian or Lamanite tongue, and had prophesied concerning that people. The gift of tongues also rested upon Brigham Young, and the Prophet again interpreted, testifying that Brother Young had spoken in the pure Adamic language which was used in the Garden of Eden. Reference is here made to that particular meeting when the Prophet of this dispensation first recognized the gift of tongues as belonging to the Church, as an introduction to an incident which occurred some years later in which a wonderful manifestation of God's Providence was given through a little girl, Nancy, the youngest child of John P. Greene, and his first wife Rhoda Young. It was after the expulsion of the Saints from Nauvoo and
142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
the hardships and sufferings heaped upon them by their enemies. Evan had just procured the use of a cabin in which the family might rest for a few days before pursuing their tedious journey; and they had gone into it and camped, when he and his young sister were both suddenly stricken down with malignant scarlet fever. Besides the two invalids, Evan's poor wife, Susan, had four or five little children to look after and wait on with no conveniences and very short rations of any kind on hand. Susan, who was a daughter of Daniel Kent and President Young's oldest sister, Nancy, was a delicate but a brave woman. Think for a moment of what a situation she was placed in, with no neighbor near, or help of any human kind, to whom she might turn. One or both of her dear suffering ones might die at any moment. Then there was the constant sickening fear of the children and herself perhaps being stricken with the dread disease. This is a true mother's story told by Susan herself to her own children afterwards, written now by one of them, that the faith of others may be thereby stimulated. Nancy was in her early teens, but she was womanly beyond her years, and a great sympathy swelled up in her heart for her pale, weak sister-in-law staggering about waiting first upon one, and then on another of those under her care. O, how the girl wanted to do something to help the situation! See how her fervent desire was granted! As Susan approached the cot upon which Nancy lay, to give her a drink for which she had been obliged to ask, the sick girl arose into a sitting posture and, raising her hands, began speaking in the gift of tongues, which rested mightily upon her. Susan remained perfectly still until Nancy ceased speaking, then the sick girl finished in her own language with, "Well! I don't know why I have spoken like this nor what I have said." "Never mind, Nancy," Susan replied brightly, "you lie down now and cover up so you will not take cold. I know why you have spoken and what you have said. The interpretation of the tongue was given to me. You have pronounced wonderful blessings upon me and in fact upon us all. You and Evan will soon be well again and none of the rest of us will be touched by the fever; you said that others of our people are coming this way, we shall soon have help and be counseled what to do." The prophecies and blessings spoken by that little innocent sick girl in the gift of tongues, at that critical time, were all verily fulfilled. Relief soon came to the suffering family, and none of the others took the fever from which Evan and Nancy were both soon entirely recovered. At Kanesville, near Council
OUR ANNIVERSARY. 143
Bluffs, Evan M. Greene was advised to remain for a time to assist in strengthening the Church at that point. He was the first United States postmaster appointed in that place. Nancy herself came on to the Rocky Mountains with her Aunt Fanny Young Murray (Smith) and some portion of the family of her Uncle Brigham. In the summer of 1852, while her brother Evan, to whom she was greatly attached, was crossing the plains with his family in an ox train, a great thunder and rain storm occurred in the canyons near the Fort which was the beginning of Salt Lake City. In the night a cloud burst and a flood of water came sweeping down into the little settlement. Some of the cabins were filled knee deep with mud and water. The one in which Aunt Fanny Murray and Nancy lived was so flooded that some of the boxes in which their clothes were kept went floating about the room. Nancy got out of bed and waded around in the water endeavoring to place some of the more valuable things where they would receive as little damage as possible. In so doing she received a violent cold, from which she did not recover. On the 10th of July, 1852, Nancy's death, which was a remarkable one, occurred. She was sick only a few days when the relatives who had watched over and waited on her became convinced that she would soon pass away. Among these were her youngest brother, John Y. Greene, his wife, Ann Spencer Greene, Aunt Fanny Murray, Uncle Joseph Young and his wife, Jane Bicknell Young. These witnesses told the touching story of Nancy's death to Evan and Susan and their children upon their arrival at Salt Lake some months later. Nancy wanted to see her brother Evan very much, as the time for her departure drew near. This desire was impossible for her friends to grant, but she was comforted at the last by being allowed to see her father in the room. She sat up in bed and pleaded with him to come close to her. Uncle Joseph with his great sympathetic heart and refined spiritual nature seemed to sense the situation clearly, and fervently he called out, "Brother John P. Greene, if your spirit is present here, do embrace your daughter!" Nancy threw out her arms as if clasping her father's neck and kissed two or three times as if their lips met, then she laid quietly down, and in a few moments her spirit passed from the body. Her last words were "Evan! Evan Greene! O dear! I must die!"
The Primary as First Aid to the Relief Society
At the recent Salt Lake stake Relief Society and Primary conference the Primary children presented a charmingly simple, but very suggestive, number which combined information, amusement and vitalized religion so skilfully that we asked for a little transcript of the affair. The youthful Beesley band of musicians, with the eight-year old leader, introduced the program, and singing by all the children closed it appropriately. What more pleasing association could there be than this happy foundation training for the future fathers and mothers of the Church in temple building and Relief Society work? We are very proud and grateful for the inspiring association of Relief Society and Primary workers.
COMING FROM PRIMARY.
First and second boys come on the stand, from the north side, with Primary Song Book—talking about the songs. Mention several songs they like to sing in Primary.
Third boy comes on from south side and says, "I'll say that was a good Primary meeting today. Didn't Armand sing well? I'd like to hear that song again—here he comes now, with the girls, let's ask him."
Three girls and Armand come in from north side. First boy asks Armand to sing, "The Children's Friend." All the children stand around the piano. Armand sings. Third boy asks first boy: "What did you learn in your class today?" First boy tells about the Kirtland and other temples.
First boy—, Say, did you notice the temple we just passed? Well, I learned today in Primary that our Salt Lake temple isn't the only temple our Church has ever built. Why, do you know that the very first Latter-day Saint temple was built in Kirtland, Ohio. You know we studied about Ohio in our geography class today. When the Saints were in Kirtland the Prophet Joseph told them that the Lord wished them to build a temple. The Saints were very poor and some of them didn't even have a home, but they didn't care. When the Lord called they were good scouts so everyone was ready to do "his bit" towards the temple. Some of the Saints just wanted to build a frame house or even a log house—but, not much—the Prophet told them they were not
THE PRIMARY FIRST AID TO RELIEF SOCIETY. 145
building a house for man but for God. He said, "Would you build a house for our heavenly Father out of logs?" So they soon got busy and built it out of the most beautiful stone and wood they could find.
Second boy— Oh, now I know why this temple out here is so beautiful and is built of the best material in the world. No wonder every one says it is the most beautiful building in our state.
First boy— Yes; that's where it started all right—and how those Saints did work! The men worked day and night.
First girl— Yes, and just please remember that the women and girls did their share also. They were kept busy knitting and spinning clothes for those who were working on the temple. They also made carpets and draperies for the temple. Many of them gave up all the wool and cotton they had for their own clothes in order that the men might have the material for theirs.
Second girl— Oh, by the way, speaking of what the women and girls did at that time, do you know that this wonderful Relief Society that we see here tonight was started, or organized, a few years later at Nauvoo. Then, there was not only sewing and spinning and cooking to be done, but there were a great many poor and sick among the Saints. They had to be nursed and cared for, so Joseph, the Prophet, called the sisters together and organized them into a Relief Society. It was organized seventy-eight years ago, and it has ever kept up the good work, until today, it is doing more for the poor and sick than any other girls' or women's organization in the world. Our Primary teacher told us that during the last war our Relief Society did more, and gave more wheat and foodstuffs to the world, in proportion to their numbers, than any other club or organization. So, I for one, am sure thankful to be here tonight trying to do my bit along with the Salt Lake stake Relief Society.
Second boy— Yes, sir, speaking of the Kirtland temple, both the men and women, worked mighty hard at that time. It took three years to finish it. Say, wouldn't you like to have been there when it was dedicated? Just think! The Prophet Joseph Smith was there, and during the services many wonderful things happened. The Prophet told the people that the Lord had sent his angels down to rejoice with them.
146 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Third boy— Oh, yes, and don't you remember that just after they finished building the temple, the Saints were very poor? They
Second boy— Oh, that's how it started. Now, I know why I paid my tithing to the bishop last month.
Third boy— What's that? ( Speaking of elephant under girl's arm.)
Third girl Oh, that is what we made this month. I wanted to buy "Not what we give but what we share, For the gift without the giver is bare."
First girl— And while we were sewing, teacher told us a story. She said: "Once there was a good shepherd who had a small flock of sheep. Some were big mother sheep and some were little baby lambs. The good shepherd had a name for each one of his flock and when they were in any trouble, he would call them all by their names and they would come, for they knew his voice. Our heavenly Father is the Good Shepherd and we are his sheep and his lambs.
Third girl— Not only that, but we practiced some games and dances that we're going to use at our Christmas party. And by the way, do we all remember that memory gem that we learned today? I'll bet I know it.
All— Say it!
Third girl—: "Let the road be rough and dreary, And its end far out of sight; Foot it bravely—strong or weary— Trust in God, and do the right."
THE PRIMARY FIRST AID TO RELIEF SOCIETY. 147
Fourth boy— But, say, folks, you have been telling when the temple building and tithing first started. Do you know how this great law of prohibition first started? You know the whole United States has that law now. Well, believe me, it started with the Saints over eighty years ago. They were so happy and thankful for their new home that they promised the Lord they would not only keep their minds pure and healthy but also their bodies. So they made a law that no whiskey or liquors of any kind should be made or used in their new home. Then the Lord revealed this law to the Prophet Joseph and he taught it to the Saints. Now, all the world is talking and fussing about this great law and making laws to stop people from drinking and making liquors, but if they want to know the true meaning of prohibition, just let them read and study our beautiful Word of Wisdom, which is found in Section 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants. This law not only tells us that liquors and hot drinks are injurious to us but also tobacco and cigarettes. So, fellows, guess we boys had better learn the Word of Wisdom off by heart. We won't need to learn to smoke, but we have courage to say no, to anyone who even mentions tobacco to us.
Third boy, pointing to south entrance— Here comes the missionary class. Maybe they'll sing for us.
Missionary class comes in and sings "The Army of the Living God," led by small boy.
EMANCIPATED By Addie S. Pace
Rejoice, O Woman! The day of thy thraldom is past, As man in God's image created Gifts equal—conceded at last.
O Woman, beware! Stain not thy hand with the touch Of aught that detracts from thy mission Of motherhood;—God, too, gave thee such.
Out of the World III. G. Milton Babcock.
Several weeks passed, and three matters of great moment to Walter came into his life. First, he secured a position as assistant bookkeeper in a bank, in Troy, at the small salary of five dollars a week. Second, he found himself taking a lively interest in certain twinkling blue eyes that flashed at him from the Sunday school class across from his own. He had known her for some time, but their experience in going over the dam together seemed to have awakened a particular concern in each other. They walked to and from church, and sometimes he called at the Whitman home, unknown to his aunt, for she was firmly opposed to Walter's bestowing any attention on girls at the tender age of seventeen. The third, and disconcerting thing, was the fact that, try as he might, he was unable to cast aside the thought of a God in whose image he was made. Several times he turned to the Articles of Religion in the back of his Prayer Book, the first of which read: "There is but one living and true God, everlasting, without body, parts, or passions; of infinite power, wisdom, and goodness; the Maker, and Preserver of all things both visible and invisible. And in the unity of this Godhead there be three Persons, of one substance, power, and eternity; the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost." He had never paid much attention to the personality of the Supreme Being, his Sunday school teacher, years before, having told him that it was a "mystery." Now the Captain had appeared in his life and brought up the vexing question. A desire to hear more of the Captain's ideas seized hold of him. But how on earth could he get to talk with him? In the daytime the ferryman was busy, his boat having been raised and restored to service, and at night, Walter's every move was known to his aunt. "Ah, I've got it," he mumbled thoughtfully: "Today is Friday, and instead of going to church tonight, I'll skin up to the Captain's house-boat." That evening he started southward in the direction of the church, for Aunt Angie usually watched him from the bay window. A block away he turned and crossed the street to the opposite sidewalk, endeavoring to keep out of the glare of the big electric light at the corner. Hurrying northward, he soon found himself walking down the gangplank to the Captain's houseboat,
OUT OF THE WORLD. 149
which was tied to the shore, a few hundred feet above the dam. The house-boat, an oblong affair, equivalent to about three ordinary-sized rooms, appealed to Walter's imagination. "How nice it must be," he thought, "to sleep every night on the water, the boat rocking and the waves beating a gentle tattoo?" The tune of "Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep," came to his lips as he knocked on the door.
"Come in!" invited a deep voice.
"Good evening, Captain Robbins."
"How are ye, lad!" welcomed the captain heartily.
"Pretty good, thank you. This is the first time I've been inside; you've certainly got it fixed up nice in here."
"Aye, lad; it used to be so much better when my wife was livin'. What can I do for you, my boy?" he asked kindly.
"Well, I'll tell you, Captain," said Walter hesitatingly: "I've been going to the Episcopal church ever since I can remember and never had occasion to doubt that it was right in every particular until I heard your argument with Reverend Arthur the other day. I can hardly believe that my minister is wrong, and yet, it seemed as if you had the Bible more or less on your side as against the Prayer Book. Of course, I've heard that you have peculiar religious views, and thought I would have a talk with you and see if you wouldn't tell me something about what you believe."
"Aye, lad, I'll be glad to tell ye my hull log of religion. There's tarnation few as'll give me a chance to talk with 'em. I knew a hull lot about the Bible—leastways, I reckoned I did—until one day a young feller blew onto my boat.
"As he was the only passenger to go across and said he was in no hurry, we hove to. Somehow it got to blowin' on religion. A livin' gale struck me amidships and heeled me over. Aye, he could talk Bible! He said, lad, that we lived afore we came here, and that God was our Father—the Father of our spirits, was the way he put it—and that he was a man just like me, only of course, he was a perfect sort o' man. Said that our spirits left their home up above and came down here to go to school and learn more o' the rules of God. Then he said that most people believed that God was a bein' 'without body, parts, or passions.'
"'Certainly, an' that's right,' I sez.
"Agin I had to reef my sails. He sez: 'Adam talked with God, Moses saw him and talked with him, and he made himself known to all the prophets, down to Malachi.'
"I couldn't gainsay him, lad; so he went on to tell me as how people believed in the Holy Trinity—that the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are one God. He said that that meant they all agreed with one another and not that they were a three-leafed
150 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
affair like the Shamrock, or a three-headed animal o' some sort. Just to show that they were separate bein's, he spoke of the time Christ was baptized: 'There was Christ in the water,' said he, 'the Holy Ghost comin' from heaven in the shape of a dove, and a voice that said, 'This is My beloved Son in whom I am well pleased.'
"Well, lad, it was time for my ferry to cast off, but on the way over he quoted the Bible to me by the fathom, and when he left, he said that he hoped some day to come back this here way and talk with me agin. That's been mighty nigh onto a year now, and I ha'int seen him yet. I'd have loved to have talked with him more'n I did.:
"So, lad, I got to tryin' these new rules on the brethren, and they just up and mutinied and cast me adrift—said it was "Goodness!" exclaimed Walter, an hour later, "it must be after nine o'clock; I've got to get home." He had been so interested in the Captain's tale that he quite forgot the deception that he was practicing. From religion, the Captain had branched off to his younger days, when he commanded a freighter on the Great Lakes. After his health failed somewhat, he had retired and taken up the ferry at Green Island, expecting to spend the rest of his days there. "Come agin, lad; I'll allus be glad to anchor an evenin' with ye," smiled the Captain benignly, as they shook hands in parting. A bright, full, spring moon beamed down on Walter as he
Captain's boat-house was the Yacht Club, founded by Walter's grandfather, the lights of the wharves stretching along the shore for a quarter-mile, while here and there danced a torchlight, been ordered for the season. To the south, the slowly receding waters of the river still rushed over the dam with a mighty roar, the moon revealing the white foam so vividly that Walter turned with a shudder and went on his way. As he neared home, he recognized Edith Whitman coming toward him. "Is that you, Walter?" she hailed. "Oh, Walter, I'm so sorry, for I know how mean your aunt treats you," she said in
"Well, you know you weren't to Prayer Meeting this evening; and just as I was going home, Reverend Arthur asked me to take a note to you for him. I asked your aunt if you were there, and she said, 'No; didn't you see him at church?' Like a little fool, I said that you hadn't been to church and gave her the note for you. Then she said, 'I'll see about this business,'
OUT OF THE WORLD. 151
and bid me a cool goodnight. You know, she never liked my folks, but I've never done anything to hurt her. Walter, I'm sorry if I've caused you any trouble," she regretted as he uttered an exclamation of dismay.
"I'll tell you, Edith, I skinned up to see Captain Robbins instead of going to church. I didn't tell her, for I knew she wouldn't let me go. Gee, I guess she'll be mad—I'll have to hurry home. Don't worry about me, though; and don't forget, I'll call for you Sunday morning to walk to church!"
Walter's heart thumped loudly as he entered the house. The very atmosphere seemed charged with that depressing influence which always accompanied a scolding from Aunt Angie.
"Where've you been, young man?" she demanded sternly.
"Up to Captain Robbins."
"What for?"
"Oh, just to talk over our accident."
"Just as if you didn't know enough about that already! You needn't prevaricate, young man," she warned as he twitched uneasily.
"I don't see why you've got to know every little move I make, aunty," he complained.
"That'll do! Just so long as you live under this roof I'm going to know what's going on, and what you're up to. I—"
"We were talking on the Bible, if you've got to know," interrupted Walter testily.
"That's just what I suspected! Now, young man, for your lying to me and deceiving me, you'll stay in the house all day Sunday. I'll teach you to go a-chasing up that old impostor instead of going to your church—which is bad enough. You get to bed this minute!'
Walter sulkily obeyed, and as he undressed, he gave vent to his feelings: "Treats me just like a child. I didn't mind it so much when I was goin' to school, but I did think when I got to workin' I could have a little leeway," he muttered. "I'll be darned if I'll stand it," he snarled, as he viciously threw back the covers and hopped into bed. Burying his face in the pillow he almost gave way to angry tears. Then, as though out of patience with himself, he rolled sharply over to the front of the bed. At length, becoming calm, he threw up the curtain. The face in the moon seemed to grin shamelessly at him; and then—it audaciously winked an eye! "Never mind, Mr. Man-in-the-Moon, wink all ye wanta; but I'm going to take Edith Whitman to church next Sunday morning or my name'll be 'Dennis'!" he vowed defiantly.
152 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
IV.
Easter morning came in all its purity, the radiant sun waking Walter from a restless slumber. Jumping gingerly out of bed, he proceeded to dress in his new suit. Suddenly, he remembered the happenings of the Friday before, and it took the spirit out of him for a moment, at the realization that he had been forbidden to go to church—Easter Sunday of all Sundays—when the choir was to sing special music, and he had been chosen to carry the Sunday school banner at the Children's Day exercises—and his aunt knew it! An uncomfortable silence brooded over the breakfast table, broken finally by Aunt Angie saying: "Walter, you may go to church this morning." Nothing further in the way of explanation, and Walter was too pleased and relieved at the change in her attitude to risk asking the reason. "Probably there'll be a good lecture later," he thought. "Maybe Uncle Billy's had something to say."
Jauntily he strode out the alleyway to the street, and, turning to the right, he made for the big, brown house on the corner above. She was waiting for him in her new, gray Easter suit and big, black hat trimmed with red roses.
"Good morning, Walter," she greeted with a smile. "What did your aunt say to you the other night?"
"Oh, nothing much," he replied evasively. "How do you like my new suit?"
Chatting gaily, they started down the street. As they passed on the opposite side of the street from his uncle's, Walter saw out of the corner of his eye that his aunt had spied them from the bay window and had hurried out on the front porch. There she stood, her arms akimbo, glaring disapprovingly at them. It sent a shiver down Walter's spine, and he knew that there would be more trouble when he returned home. Edith did not seem to notice, but talked pleasantly of the happenings of Eastertime.
The services dragged to Walter, and he was glad when they started for home. On the way, he was unusually quiet and morose. Edith noticed it and inquired the reason.
"Oh, nothing," he replied gloomily.
"I'll bet your aunt is worrying you," she declared. "I wouldn't put up with it if it was me. Mother says your aunt's too strict altogether."
"I hardly know what to think, Edith. You know, she took me when I was a boy, and I don't doubt but that she means well by me, but it's pretty hard sometimes. I never do anything real bad; yet she is constantly after me about something or other.
OUT OF THE WORLD. 153
Well, here we are," he broke off as they approached the house: "guess I'll leave you right here."
"Goodby, Walter. Take these," she murmured, smilingly offering him a few sweetpeas from her bouquet.
Hastily thrusting the flowers into his coat pocket, he hurried into the house. For once, his aunt seemed to have control of her feelings as she invited him into the parlor for an interview. Uncle Billy was sitting in his great chair as they came in, and, as usual on such occasions, he arose to retire—much as a cat routed from its comfortable place near the fireside.
"You will please remain, William," she requested. Reluctantly he settled back in his chair.
"Walter," she commenced, "I haven't much to say, but what I do say, I want you to remember. You have been with us seven years now—since the time I took you from your mother. It is not necessary for me to refer to your circumstances then, only to cause you to realize what you were saved from. All these years I have brought you up as my own, giving you an education and doing everything within my power to make you a success in life. As I have told you before, I have had not only a love, but a sympathy for you, knowing what you went through when with your mother. You are now coming to a man's estate, but for all that, you are but a boy in experience. You think now that you are working and earning your living, you ought to have more privileges. In a sense, that is true; but there is one thing I must insist upon while you stay with me—at least until you are twenty-one—and that is, you must keep no steady company with any young lady. Your father married young—much too young, hardly knowing what he did—and I want to save you from any indiscretion of this sort. I am not favorably impressed with the young lady you took to church this morning, and must insist that you refrain from escorting any girl to and from church. You are altogether too young for such things. You can't tell what it will lead to."
On she went, in true puritanical style, Walter sitting in silence for some minutes after she stopped talking. The ticking of the clock on the mantel piece was the only sound to be heard. Suddenly, it struck the hour, awakening Walter to the idea of a defense.
"Aunty, I don't see anything wrong about Edith. I have known her for a long time, and she teaches a class of girls the same age as my boys. I haven't any serious intentions, I can assure you, and I do not see where there is any harm in a fellow taking a girl to church on Easter morning."
"There may be no harm in that," she interposed, "but it won't rest there. I have seen many a young man become in-
154 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
fatuated with a girl far beneath him, and then, after it was too late, regret forever after that he did so. You ought to be thinking seriously of your future and making up your mind to educate yourself for something better than a mere bank bookkeeper."
Presently, in a none too pleasant frame of mind, Walter withdrew to his room. Thrusting his hand in his pocket, he drew therefrom the sweet peas Edith had given him. "I suppose my aunt would have a fit, if she knew I had these," he muttered despondently, as he pressed them between the leaves of his Bible.
Friday evening of that week Walter went to a party at a young woman's home in Lansingburgh. As he left home, his aunt warned: "Remember, Walter; you must be home by ten o'clock, for I shall lock the door at that time!" This was the usual notice, and, so far, Walter had scrupulously obeyed her commands in this regard, although it entailed his leaving a party at the height of the festivities; and, what is dear to the young life of every red-blooded boy—the privilege of taking his "girl" home—was denied him—for what girl would leave at nine-thirty or so? Walter left the gathering in plenty of time to arrive home by ten o'clock, but when he came to the Troy side of the bridge and endeavored to transfer, he found the cars tied up by a fire. He waited uneasily for some minutes, and finally started to walk the mile or so home. At 10:25 he arrived at the door—and found it locked. He knocked—gently at first—then harder, but no response. Dark, lowering clouds were disputing the right of the moon to shine as he looked up, wondering where he would spend the night A feeling of resentment arose within him. Every dog in the neighborhood was aroused by the knocking, and the one upstairs came charging down intent upon driving the supposed intruder away, and it seemed to Walter that the animal would never recognize him and quit its barking. Angrily he turned toward the door and once more he knocked—louder than before. In a few seconds he heard his aunt stumping from her bedroom, and, upon unlocking the door, she said, severely: "I will settle with you in the morning for this, young man—you can go to bed immediately!" Hotly he replied, "You won't have a chance to lock me out this way again! It wasn't my fault that I was late, and I don't see why you wanted to keep me standing out there like a criminal instead of letting me in when I first knocked." "That will do—none of your back talk I only heard you knock once.' Before going to bed, Walter packed his suit-case. All night
OUT OF THE WORLD. 155
long he rolled and tossed. As he came out the bedroom door the next morning, suit-case in hand, he encountered his aunt. "Aunt Angeline, I will say goodby—I have made up my mind to leave home. There is no happiness for either of us, and I think it will be better to—to—" He could say no more, for the tears welled up in his eyes and his voice choked. Falteringly he passed out the door—out of the home that had sheltered him for seven long, fruitful years—away from the woman who had been mother and father to him; out into the world to face its snares and temptations; out from the care of others to build for himself—on five dollars a week!
V
Troy was one of the first names Walter had lisped. Much of its history he knew, even though he did not know that it was called at various times Ferryhook, Ashley's Ferry, and Vander-Heyden's Ferry, and that at a town meeting in 1789 the community was christened with its present name. He did know, however, that his people were among the earliest settlers of the city and county, more particularly toward the east in the town of Grafton. He knew that Stephen Van Rensselaer founded the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, in 1824—the oldest engineering school in the country—and that Mrs. Emma Willard established one of the oldest schools for women in the United States in 1821 in the city. He had seen old newspaper clippings telling of the greatness of Troy as a center of the steel and iron industry of the state, and how parts of the famous Monitor had been made there during Civil War times. Troy's present fame was due to the collar and shirt industry—the greatest in the world. Thousands of girls and women poured, at quitting time, from the great, modern factories that lined the river; and, Walter never quite forgot the day when, having occasion to go into one of the shops to see a friend, it seemed that the entire number of four hundred girls on the first floor stopped their electric sewing machines, with which they were doing "inserting," to smile at him. A June rain was falling—at times gentle and warm, then driving. Its fall, like the proverbial sparrows, did not pass unheeded, for Walter lay on his bed in the little room which he had rented on the top floor, listening to the chiming on the tin roof. Long years ago, it seemed, he had been lulled to sleep by the rain-music, both on the old, worn tin roof and on the bedroom floor, when he and his mother lived in Bain's old house. Somehow,
156 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
whenever he listened to the patter of rain on the roof, it brought back old, sad memories. Then he was a little boy in the care of his mother and what the world would allow the poor, patient woman; now he was his own master, thrown onto the world to shift for himself. And how poorly he had shifted in some respects! True, his landlady—kind, good-natured Mrs. Parley—took a special interest in the lad and did all she could to make his little room attractive, but the pulsing spirit of the youth always felt, upon returning to the room, like an escaped bird going back to its cage. He had managed to gather together fifteen dollars before leaving his aunt's, five dollars of which he paid to join the Y. M. C. A. Always, in the past, his plea to join this organization had been met with, "too expensive," and, "a waste of time." Wisely he had decided that the games and classes at the "Y" would help him while away many an otherwise profitless hour. He took great delight in playing basketball, but after the game in the early evening, he would stay up late playing pool at the "Y"—a game of which he grew to be very fond; too fond, in fact, for his own good, as it encouraged staying out late nights—something he had never done before. Then, too, in the matter of meals he was not overly careful, eating at various hours and often cheap, unnourishing food. Again, he was prone to worry about the past. The cashier of the bank and several of Walter's friends frowned upon him for the course he had pursued in leaving home, and at one time he thought he would lose his position. Ere the patter of the rain sounded faint and distant this June night, a plan entered Walter's head, the carrying out of which was to cause his life's path once more to swerve in a direction he dreamed not of. He would buy a bicycle on the installment plan and make the fifty-mile trip north to see a brother of his father's whom he had met once at Uncle Billy's and who had invited him to a visit! As the Fourth of July fell on Saturday, this would give him all day Sunday for his visit, and he could start for home by daylight Monday morning, arriving in time for the bank opening at ten o'clock.:
(To be continued.)  Anniversary Programs Morag A number of suggestive programs of Latter-day Saint hymns may 'be appropriately given this March, as we are taking the hymns in our literary lessons. These programs may be used for special occasions in our Relief Society annuals, anniversary day, socials, or at ward conferences. If it is possible to obtain information, it would prove interesting to give brief sketches of the various writers and musicians; some are found in our old magazines, and in Jenson's Biographical Encyclopedia. Some of the hymns may be used as solos, duets, or quartets, others used for community singing. The newer songs suggested should be sung by Relief Society or 'ward choirs. The programs given do not cover the field. Space at present does not permit more, but if these programs are taken as a guide, others may be given from various Latter-day Saint authors. We trust that the study of our Latter-day Saint hymns, and the rendition of these programs will prove an inspiration and a blessing. PROGRAM I An Afternoon with Latter-day Saint Women Hymn-Writers and Musicians "O, awake! My. Slumbering minstrel, Eliza R: Snow, Geo. Careless, Hymn Book, page 133. Biographical sketch of the life of E. R. Snow.; Hymn, "Oh, my Father," Hymn Book, page 143; "Awake! Ye Saints of God, awake,' Hymn Book, page 329; "The time is far spent,' Hymn Book, page 343. Emily Hill Woodmansee; read or sing, "Though deepening trials throng your way,' Hymn Book, page 374. Read hymn "The day of redemption,” Psalmody, page 334; "Uphold the right, though fierce the fight,' Hymn Book, page 433; sing "Providence is over all." Solo, "Mother," words and music by Ida H. White, R. S. Book, page 110; trio, "The new freedom song,” Lucy A. R. Clark, R. S. Book, page 127. L. Lula Greene Richards hymn, "My Friend," music by Lucy May Green, R. S. Book, page 67; hymn, "We thank thee, heavenly Father," R. S. Book,, page 80. 158 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Read from Lula Greene Richards poem, see back number of R. S. Magazine or other Church publications. Duet, "Gentle Words," Ida H. White, Lucy May Green. Read sketch of Emmeline B. Wells, song, "Our mountain home so dear;" "Sing the sweet and touching story,' Hymn Book, page 44. PROGRAM II Relief Society Hymns and their Authors, and Musicians Evan Stephens, song, "Let us all press on," R. S. Book, page 51; hymn anthem, "Prayer," Temple Anthems, 2nd book, duet, "God bless our mountain home," R. S. Book, page 3. John M. Chamberlain song, "Land of the Free," R. S. Book, page 96; duet, "The Relief Society," R. S. Song Book, page 126; song, "We love to serve," R. S. Book, page 130., H. A. Tuckett, hymn, "We are sowing," R. S. Book, page 1.; J. L. Townsend, hymn,. "Let love abound," Songs of Zion, page 206; hymn, "Kind words are sweet tones," page 212. Words, Parley P. Pratt, music, George Careless, hymn, "Another day has fled and gone," Songs of Zion, page 3; "The morning breaks, the shadows flee;" Hymn Book. P Charles W. Penrose, "Oh, ye mountains high," Psalmody, page 315; read, "School thy feelings," page 405, L. D. S. Hymn Book. PROGRAM III Relief Society Hymns, their Authors and Musicians "Redeemer of Israel," R. S. Book, page 16; W. W. Phelps, "Barth with her ten thousand flowers," R. S. Book, page 14. John Nicholson, hymn, "The Lord is my light," R. 5. Book; read, "Come follow me the Savior said," page 404, L. D. S. Book. Edwin F. Parry, hymn, "Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad morning," R. S. Book, page 86; hymn, "Beautiful words of love," R. S. Book, page 92. William Clayton, hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints,' R. S. Book, page 22; read, "When first the glorious light of truth," R. S. Book; page 77. Alexander Neibaur and A. C. Smith, hymn, "Come, thou glorious day of promise," page 20, R. S. Book; "Zion stands with hills surrounded," R. S. Book, page 23; hymns, "Oh say what is truth?" (John Jaques) R. S. Book, page 44. B. Cecil Gates, hymn, "Come, Saints, and sing a joyful  ANNIVERSARY PROGRAMS. 159 song," R. S. Book, page 116; "Our eternal home," R. S. Book, page 108. THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN SONG AND STORY Program for Anniversary Day In this program the songs suggested are taken from the Relief Society Song Book. The speakers might be limited to five minutes for each subject. Hymn 55, "Our mountain home so dear," prayer; hymn 6, "Hear us pray," and story; "The first Relief Society, 1843;" trio, 129, "With heavenly inspiration;" talks, "Woman's greatest privilege, Motherhood;" "The mother's plea," Ida Horne White; talk, "The duties of a Relief Society teacher;" duet and chorus, page 126, "The Relief Society." Theology "The Lord is my light," John Nicholson; talk, "Genealogy;" duet, "Voices from the dead," April, 1920, R. S. Magazine. Literature Hymn 89, 'Kind words are sweet tones," Townsend, Beesley. Social Service State song, 101, "Utah, we love thee." United Effort Hymn 138, "We love our work," (M. E. Abel). Behold: “I have set before thee an open door," Rev. 3:8. 1843-1921 From cantata, ""The opened door," The earth in bondage long had slept, And heavens light was hid; Pure womanhood of hope bereft Was mourning till the Prophet said: "I now turn the key to you, in the name of God, Knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. This is the beginning of better days for you." And womanhood, throughout the land, Rejoicing heard the call; In loving service to mankind, They follow where the prophet led. 160 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. For woman's cause, adown the years, Has prospered far and wide, Intelligence, blest gift divine, Has freed us, as the Prophet said: "I now turn the key to you in the name of God. Knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. This is the beginning of better days for you." PROGRAM IV Suggestive Programme for Anniversary Day Ward Celebration Congregational hymn: "Zion prospers all is well,' No. 21, R. S. Song Book.: Invocation. Song by choir, "Our mountain home so dear,” No. 26, R. S. Song Book. Tableau, "A Relief Society in Nauvoo, 1843." The first meeting of the Relief Society may be presented, and brief extracts of first minutes read. Scene, interior, 3 males, 18 females, 1 child. Old-fashioned costumes. Song, "With heavenly inspiration," No. 129, R. S. Song Book. Tableau, "Relief Society spirits." Charity is central figure, and is accompanied by Faith, Hope, also Theology, Genealogy, Music, Art, Literature, Home Economy, Conservation, Patriotism, Liberty, Motherhood in Costumes; Greek robes of cheesecloth in pastel shades.: Congregational hymns "Come Saints, and sing a joyful song," page 116.; Tableau, "A modern Relief Society." Here the various activities of present-day Relief Society are given. Explanation of this tableau. Should be given by the president. Tableau, "Earth with her ten thousand flowers," No. 14, R. S. Song Book, first verse. Garden or outdoors scene. Mother Earth, robed in green or brown, is surrounded by white-robed children or young people representing the flowers. Costumes may be trimmed with paper flowers, or made entirely of crepe paper. Between verses, if a phonograph is available, one or two "bird" records might be played. A flower drill, or march, might be introduced while the second verse is played and sung. Third verse, tableau, "All the hopes that sweetly start." Home scene, interior. In one corner a girl might be gazing into her "hope" chest, or a mother bending over her baby's cradle. An ANNIVERSARY PROGRAMS.. 161 older mother may be greeting with pride her returning soldier, or missionary son. A young couple may be pouring over blue prints of house plans, or an aged couple might be surrounded by their numerous progeny. Voices from above. Finally nine angel children, each carrying a large letter, may spell out the words, God is Love. Suggestion, cooperate with the Primary or Religion Class. PROGRAM VII A Century of Latter-day Saint Womanhood Suitable for a stake celebration of anniversary day, or it may be given by a large ward. Prologue Time 1820. Opening music, slow minor dirge typifying darkness. The spirit of Prophecy speaks, 'The earth also is defiled 'under the inhabitants thereof, because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinances, broken the everlasting covenant." First tableau Manhood and Womanhood enthralled, Truth in chains and the Spirits of Evil triumphant. Evil Spirits, Apostasy, Bigotry, Intolerance, Intemperance, Error, Pride, Superstition, Vice. Music, "Dance of the Demons." Evil Spirits may engage in a wild dance, or choir sing, Psalmody, 353, "The nations bow to Satan's thrall." Spirit of Prophecy: "Thus saith the Lord, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among these people, even a marvelous work and a wonder. Whereas thou hast been forsaken and hated, I will make thee an eternal excellency, a joy of many generations. And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising." Congregational song, "An angel from on high.' During the singing, twelve guardian angels enter from rear of building and group on either side of platform.. First Episode Restoration 'April 6, 1830. Tableau, The Church of Jesus Christ is organized. Interlude, Prayer of the guardian angels, may be recited or softly sung. Music, page 4 Psalmody: "How long, oh kind and gracious Lord, Wilt thou not heed thy daughter's plea? The Gospel's mighty truths restored Opened the way 'tween man and thee. 162 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Fair womanhood is still enthralled By superstition's galling chain, Oh hear our prayer, and set her free, We plead in our Redeemer's name., Amen." Tableau, Nauvoo, 1842. The organization of the Relief Society, 18 women, 1 child, the Prophet Joseph, John Taylor, Willard Richards. (Old-fashioned costumes.) Interlude, Womanhood set free, Womanhood, accompanied by Faith, Hope, Charity, Truth, Righteousness and Intelligence, sing, “With heavenly inspiration,” 129 R. S. Hymn Book. The Spirit of Prophecy: The Prophet of the Lord said, "I now turn the key to you in the name of God; knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time, this is the beginning of better days for you." The objects of this new organization are: Charity expressed in' word and action; Separation from the world and its evils; Love to God and your neighbor, both the living and the dead; Missionary work, to gain intelligence and save souls. Second Episode Crossing the plains—1850: Evening camp. The wayside grave, first glimpse of the Valley, "This is the place," song, "Oh ye mountains high." ( Penrose.) Tableau, Eliza R. Snow, and her administration: Early Relief Society activities; "The teachers." 126 Song, "The Relief Society." (Chamberlain.) Third Episode Zina D. Young and her work: Utah, 1880-1890, "The General Board Organization." The silk industry, Deseret Hospital, Nurse Work. Fourth Episode Temple work, as Temple leader Bathsheba W. Smith, Woman's Suffrage, Sarah M. Kimball as suffrage leader. Tableau, "Relief Society Wheat Saving:' Harvest Scene, The Gleaners. President Emmeline B. Wells, (A Modern Joseph); Dance of the harvesters, or harvest song. ' Fifth Episode Woman's work in war 1916, Clarissa Smith Williams, as leader; Angels of Mercy (Red Cross workers) Service Star Mothers, "The dead beautifully laid away," Julina L. Smith; Conservation, etc., War Work. Tableau, Peace and Ratification of Woman's Suffrage, 1920; ANNIVERS spy PROGRAMS. 163 Columbia, attended by Suffrage States, each bearing flag; Flag drill, followed by national anthem. Spirit of Prophecy: "Behold the Lord hath Proclaimed unto the end Of the World, Say Ye to the daughter of Zion, Behold! Thy Salvation cometh, and thou Shalt know that I, the Lord, am thy Savior and Redeemer. Awake! Put on thy Strength, put on thy beautify garments, oh, daughter of Zion." Finale, Womanhood, triumphant 1921. In the final tableau Womanhood, attended by Truth, Intelligence, Righteousness, Faith, Hope, and Charity, Occupy the center of the Stage. To the right are grouped Relief Society Workers. To the left. Harvesters and War workers. Behind these, the Suffrage States, with Columbia and large flag, while at extreme rear (elevated) are Guardian Angels, Spirits of Evil (crouching) at extreme right and left. Song for finale, "Zion prospers, all is well"' number 21 R.S. Book, or Doxology. The Pageant outlined, "A Century of Womanhood," is suitable for a large stake entertainment, to be given on the Stage of an amusement hall. Careful attention should given to details of scenery, lighting, effects, and music. Costumes may be very elaborate, or simple, as desired. Angels and Spirits of Evil, and the Virtues, should have loose flowing robes of cheesecloth or similar soft materials. The colors for the prologue may be black, purple, yellow, and green. Womanhood may be robed in gray. The lights should be dim. The guardian angels may have cream or white robes, silver girdles, and may have silver trumpets or wands with star tips. Faith, Hope, Charity, and the other Virtues, should wear soft pinks, lavenders, blues or pastel shades. The costumes of the periods of 1843 and 1880, Should be carefully chosen, while the suffrage States might be dressed in bunting, with the name of the State across the front Of their robe or on the banner each one carries. In the final tableau, Womanhood's robe should be of White and gold. Spirit of Prophecy, white robe with veil. The various episodes may be dramatized, and dialogue added, if desired. A small orchestra would add much to the occasion, while a good energetic song leader is absolutely necessary to the success of the pageant. If the different tableaus are assigned to various wards, or organizations in the stake, the work will be easy for all concerned and the entertainment should prove an artistic, social and financial success. World Happenings By James H, Anderson History-making events marking the first few weeks of 1921 may be noted as follows: Great Britain, France and Belgium fixed the amount of war indemnity to be paid by Germany at 226,000,000,000 francs—about fifty-six billions of dollars—the period of payments covering 42 years; while the Germans say the amount is absurd and impossible—hence the full sum probably never will be paid. * * * The treaty of Sevres, which gave Smyrna to Greece, is to be revised in favor of Turkey, whose people have not been so submissive as the Germans to postwar decrees. * * * Russia is preparing for an extention of Soviet rule to adjoining nations, east, west and south. * * * Gov. N. L. Miller, of New York, says the program of welfare legislation by the League of Women Voters is "a menace to American government." * * * Two new rebellions in Mexico, one north, the other south. * * * Wave of crime unabated in the United States. * * * School teachers in Utah asking for more money for recreation centers, and other school teachers saying there is now too little manual training in schools. * * * Swedish women given additional franchise rights. * * * 3,500,000 men out of employment in the United States. * * * Mrs. Gladys Witherell of Los Angeles, California, kidnapped for a ransom and rescued by peace officers five days later, and the kidnappers captured. * * * Utah state expenses increased over 500 percent from 1910 to 1920. * * * Increasing labor troubles in Great Britain, threatening the government. * *.* Austria about to fail as a nation, due to starvation, and to plunge middle Europe into another war. * * * Trish rebellion unmodified. * * * Germany having difficulty to restrain Bolshevism. * * * Socialist riots in Italy cause the loss of many lives. * * * 15,000 Mexican laborers returned to Mexico until summer again requires their services in the United States. * * * Turks say they will not receive President Wilson's personal representative on the Armenian question, Mr. Morgenthau. * * * Utah's vote for president and vice-president had to be forwarded by registered letter because the woman elector selected as messenger did not start for Washington in time. * * * Disarmament urged by the greater nations, with no prospect of present adoption. * * * Serious riots in British India. * WORLD HAPPENINGS.. 165 * * Bavaria, Germany, refuse to disarm its home guard at the command of the allies. * * * Egypt demands independence from British rule. *. * * France and the Pope of Rome have settled their long-time disagreement. * * * Mrs. Ernest Harrington, of Danville, Illinois, gave up her fast on the 48th day, and her husband, whom she failed to convert to her religious views, seeks to divorce her. * * * Senator Reed Smoot's government reorganization bill became a law. * * * Mexico confiscates millions in Catholic church property. * * The Fiume difficulty in Italy adjusted. * * * Great Britain fearful of Bolshevism spreading in Asia and to middle and western Europe. * * * $33,000,000 raised in the United States for the relief of European children. * * * Islamism being aroused to a "holy war." * * * France's anti-German policy threatening to European peace, in the minds of British and American statesmen. * * * Railway managers in the United States say high railway wages must come down, to lower high cost of living to the people, and railway employees resist. * * * The Palestine rehabilitation commission, including Baron Rothschild, Sir Alfred Mond, Dr. Chaim Meizmann, and other influential orthodox Jews, issued a manifesto to the Jews to pay tithes to add to the Palestine fund, and outlined a program to enable the Jews to immigrate thither without delay, and for the economic development of the country. WHAT THE WORLD BELIEVES The Theological lessons are taken largely from the standard works of the Church, so far as the Gospel truths are concerned; and the forms, rituals and creeds of the religions of the world. Are gleaned mostly from an excellent book called "What The World Believes." This book, published in 1884, contains the beliefs of every prominent religion of the world, ancient and modern, each church preparing its own article. Our chapter was written by Apostle Franklin D. Richards; and although the book is in its fifth edition, this chapter stands as originally written. So with the others. The retail price of the book, at the Deseret Book Company, is $3.75. If ordered by the dozen, they can be had for $3.00. This reference book is not required as the lessons are full and complete as they are; but societies or libraries who wish more information on the subjects treated would find this to be an invaluable reference book. Notes from the Field. California Mission A Relief Society Mission Board has been recently appointed to assist Mrs. Louisa W. Jones, president of the organization. It has been evident for some time that the increased work in the society is too heavy for one person. Mrs. Jones will therefore be assisted by the following board: Mrs. Amanda Forbes Done, secretary; Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze, Mrs. Kate Romney Stewart, and Mrs. Margaret T. Miller. Mrs. Jones is arranging to hold three-day conventions in each of the conferences of the mission: Tuscon, Arizona, Los Angeles, and San Francisco, California. The Sunday Schools and the Mutual Improvement Associations will join with the Relief Society in the conventious, where religious and social welfare problems will be discussed. Northern States Mission Mrs. Emily Whitney Smith, president of the Northern States mission Relief Society, has selected two of the missionary girls to serve as aids to her in the Relief Society work. These ladies are Miss Bertha Thurgood, of West Point, Utah, and Gertrude Miles, of Smithfield, Utah. European Mission Aintab, Syria, Turkey. The following letter was recently received by President Emmeline B. Wells, from the Relief Society women of Aintah, Turkey. "Dear Sisters in the gospel: We have not heard from you for a long time, and we are somewhat disheartened, but yet we thank the Lord that we have been found worthy to hear the gospel in this world and accept the same, We think of you sisters continuously, and even if we do not meet in this life and see each other, face to face, we have the assurance that we shall meet in the Millennium. We thank the Lord that even though we are amidst great trials and tribulation, he has delivered us from many afflictions. We have been © blessed with faith-and for this blessing we are extremely thankful. Our condition at present is such that only we who have seen can make a person appreciative. Hunger, nakedness, and want are everywhere. We do not feel to burden you with our troubles, but ask you to remember us in your prayers to the One on high. We remain, your faithful sisters in the gospel." This letter was signed by twenty-four members of the Relief Society, who, with their fellow countrymen, are no doubt undergoing Canadian Mission Mrs. Harriet Westmancope president of the Relief Society in Toronto, Canada, was an English convert. One evening if the year of 1907, in the city of Cheltenham, England, two young "Mormon" elders were conducting street meeting. Mrs. Westmancope, at distance greatly impressed with the remarks of these earnest, clean-looking, young men, and as she approached them she was charmed their humble, sober manner, and impressed the truth which they declared. She decided immediately that they were preaching the true gospel. She invited the elders to call at home where she received them kindly, and read their literature with eagerness. A few months later, Mrs. Westmanscope was baptized and immigrated to Toronto, Canada, where she has been a very active member of the branch, and a faithful worker in the Relief Society. South Davis Stake A very successful affair, both socially and financially, was the bazaar given in the Centerville Second ward, December 16, 1920, under the direction of the Relief Society. A splendid program was the first feature of the evening. This was followed by the selling of refreshments and numerous articles made by members of the society They consisted of beautiful quilts, homemade rugs, children’s underwear, aprons, dresses, and many other useful things.  After expenses paid, sum $250 was realized $200 from the sale, and $50 contributed by the Bishopric in the form of a liberty bond. The proceeds of entertainment will be given to the ward to help pay expenses of the new meetinghouse. Mrs. Maggie Grant, of the West Bountiful ward, who is now 87 years old, has made and furnished the sacrament bread for this ward for 42 years, without missing a single Sunday. She says she will continue to do this as long as she can stand up and mould the bread. Idaho Stake Following is the program of the Relief Society ward conferences being held in the Idaho stake: Book of Mormon lesson, by ward member, Vocal music, by ward member; Address, chaperonage, by stake board member; Address, chaperonage, by stake 168 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. board member; Singing, ward choir; Benediction, Relief Society member. Panguitch Stake A union meeting or district convention has just been held, with the two Panguitch wards, and the Hatch ward participating. This is the first district convention held in this stake since the stake was divided. Due to the great distance between wards, it is not feasible to hold union meetings, and these district conventions are arranged to take the place of stake union meetings. The program for the convention held January 20, follows: Address of welcome, Counselor Matilda Sargent; Theology lesson, Miss Brenda Worthen, returned missionary; Anti-tobacco campaign, President John Henrie; Literary lesson, L. D. S. Hymns and their authors, Maria L. Heyward; Reading, by Louisa Prince; Talk, Bishop Hans P. Ipson. Afternoon session, Opening remarks, Leroy Porter; Talk on social service, Elder John F. Crosby; Evils of tobacco, Fred G. Gardiner; Evils in social life, Benjamin Cameron; Reading, Martha E.. Church; Historical outline of the Hatch ward, Louie Porter; Benefits derived from convention, Sarah D. Syrett; the program was interspersed by musical numbers. The attendance at the convention was very good, many of the brethren, being present. St. George Stake The Relief Society women of Hurricane Utah, gave a surprise party on Mrs. Mary Jane Weeks, wife of Dr. Oredy Weeks, on her 80th birthday. A very enjoyable program was given, including the reading of some original verses for the occasion, by Mrs. Lydia M. Covington. After the Program, delicious refreshments were served. Malad Stake In Malad, Idaho, under the direction of the Social Advisory Committee, a new moving picture machine has been installed and free moving picture shows are being given. Socials are also frequently held consisting of dancing and games. These activities are all supervised by the committee, and are very popular in the community. St. Joseph Stake At a union meeting of stake and local officers, held in December, the following program was given: Opening exercises, roll call, minutes. How to give current events, Henrietta T. Nash; Current events, a demonstration, by Ethel D. Payne; NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 160 instructions to Magazine agents, Annie H. Layton; Teachers' subjects for January, Matthew, chapter 5:14, 15, 16, Leola Marshall; Duties of presidents Adelia Tyler; A discussion of the literary and social service lessons for the month. Welfare Work The No-Tobacco League of Idaho: An organization known as the No-Tobacco League of Idaho has been formed with Mrs. S. F. Parkinson, of Rexburg, as president. Seven counties in Idaho are affiliated, and headquarters have been established at Rexburg, Idaho. The movement is non-sectarian and seeks the support of all who are opposed to the tobacco habit. The present tobacco laws of Idaho, prohibiting the non-use and non-sale of tobacco in any form by and to minors, are being strictly enforced. Many minors have already been taken before the judge for violation of the laws. The league is now working first for an anticigarette law, and the prohibition of advertising tobacco in papers and magazines published in the state, on signs, posters, bill boards, display windows, motion pictures, theatres etc. Second, for high license to business men who sell tobacco in any form. Third, for the prohibition of smoking in public places, except places designated for that purpose. Public Health Through the "Survey," for December, we learn of a movement instituted by certain broad-minded persons in Boston in the interest of department store hygiene. An appeal was made by these merchants to the Harvard Medical School to study health conditions in stores. A survey was begun with a five-year budget under the supervision of the Harvard Industrial Hygiene Division, supported by twenty-five contributing stores, nineteen in Boston and six in other cities. The work was started December 1, 1919. They began wth a complete sanitary survey of each store, including the building, the organization the personnel, the present medical service, and the social welfare or mutual aid work. Recommendations were then made to suit the needs of each store. A statement was made in the beginning that this work was inaugurated in the interest of increased production for the stores. Department store medical problems include, first, environment of the worker; second, fitting the worker to suitable work; third, medical care and health education for the worker. Mr. Davis, author of the article says, "Absenteeism and, lost time are commonly due to illness, and are large losses to any store. Health is not only an asset to the individual, but capital to the business. Illness, in such a closely coordinated organization, 170 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. is a serious loss. Good humor and good manners result from good health, good habit, and good morals. The public is sensitive to good salesmanship. To be met by a cheerful, healthy, intelligent sales person, who ascertains your need and quickly supplies it, creates in you the sub-conscious state of satisfaction, which brings you back again to that store. Any progressive merchant realizes that the success of his: business depends largely upon the health of his employees." Under the plan, store buildings must be sanitary. Attention must be given to ventilation, heat, light, proper seating, proper luncheon facilities, wash rooms, toilets drinking water, towels etc. Mr. Davis calls attention to the fact that most people have at least, slight disabilities, and to place such people where their earning capacity is greatest and their usefulness may be prolonged, is a problem requiring judgment, tact, and skill. In each store there is a physician in constant attendance, and one or more nurses. The absent employee, suspected of illness, is visited by the store nurse, who reports cases to the doctor. The cost of free examination and such health service, is estimated at $7 to $10 annually, per employee, and it is claimed that any store can afford to give this service. In summing up, Mr. Davis says: "The Harvard Mercantile Health Work plans to develop health departments for mercantile establishments, where the new employee may be examined and advised with regard to his or her physical condition. Every provision will be made to keep that worker fit, an to insure suitable care if illness should come. All this is done on the frank basis of increased production. Such increased production, clearly demonstrated to the employer, should justify him to his stockholders in, financing the health program." Rehabilitation of Disabled Warriors. To all former service men, with major amputations, the federal board is offering a highly specialized training in any line they wish to follow, under the direction of experts, and in a group organized for the special benefit of men with disabilities of this character. This opportunity is given these men in addition to their regular compensation. The aim of the board is twofold: First, to insure for them a normal and happy life, as an active, producing individual, and, second, for the sake of the community at large to place these men on a real producing basis. Nearly every man whatever his disability, can, by proper training and education, be put back into the general scheme of things as a real man with a real place in the world. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD ) Mrs. Emmeline B. WELLs - - - - - President Mrs. Clarissa S, WILLIAMS:::: First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith - - - - - - Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman - - - -: - General Secretary Mrs. Susa Youns Gates: - - - - Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A, Empey - - - - - - General Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon -Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -- - - - - - Susa Young Gates Business Manager - - - - - - - Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director  Vol. VIII MARCH, 1921 No. 3  IF I WERE A RELIEF SOCIETY TEACHER of Gilead. We all long for encouragement. We are all so desperately afraid that we have done some one thing or left undone some forting to hear some one say, we do this well or we wisely left that undone. 172 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. A wise woman who had many dear and adoring friends once was asked how she kept her friends so long, and she replied: "1 don't make a virtue of telling my friends their faults. If I go to see a new-born child who has ugly ears but a sweet little mouth, I tell the mother about the mouth and don't mention the ears. She sees what I see, anyway. So with my friends. I am not called upon to reform them. I love them for what they are, not for what they ought or might be." Some people have so cultivated the art of saying disagreeable things that they can never be agreeable. They fancy themselves as being what they call ''frank and honest." But they see only people's ugly points, never their praiseworthy ones. Asa great writer; puts it: "There are those who from long disuse have lost the power of kindly, human speech." The Lord deliver us from Relief Society teachers of this nature! We can all minister as understanding Relief Society teachers, if we will train ourselves first to speak kindly words to our every-day associates in the home. You know many wives forget ever to say a word of praise or encouragement to their overworked husbands. If men do ill, or neglect us, we hurry to tell them so, frankly and fully. But if they offer a bit of help in our housework, or when they are dressed up for Church, and we note their clean gentlemanly appearance, we keep still and say nothing. We are so stingy with our encouragement. When you go out teaching in the good old-fashioned way, you dear old-fashioned sisters, you just carry with you a few encouraging words; for instance, notice about the flowers in the window, the healthy-looking children, the clean home, the excellent cooking, the faithful attendance at meeting, the inspiring testimony given by the husband or wife at the last fast meeting; and above all, carry with you all the "trade-lasts" as the children call them, you have heard about your hostesses' children. We would rather hear good things about over husbands and children than about ourselves. Then, pass on such words of encouragement, as you go from door to door. Above all, remember there is a vitality, a principle of life, in the very speech that we utter when talking on any of the principles of the gospel. A word of testimony, a reference to fulfillment of prophecy, a faith-promoting 'incident, an assurance that the Lord notices and rewards our faithfulness in our home and Relief Society duties, all these fall on the tired spirit and burdened soul of a mother like the precious "dew upon Mount Hermon." Garnish your visits with such pearls of wisdom and sympathy, dear Relief Society teachers, and you will be loved and welcomed in every home in Zion. Guide Lessons for May LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in May.) SALVATION FOR THE LIVING AND DEAD. (Baptism) Baptism is the ordinance required to admit believers into most of the Christian Churches. It is a symbol of the death and resurrection of the Savior. The candidate is buried in the water in "likeness" of Christ's burial in the tomb, then is raised up out of the water, in likeness of his resurrection. The baptism is performed by another person which symbolizes the vicarious nature of the ordinance, and the divine sacrifice of which it is a type or symbol. That is, a man may not properly go down in the water and get down under it and then rise out of it alone; nor can he possibly hope to save himself without divine assistance. We depend for salvation entirely on the vicarious help extended to us by our Savior's dying to save us. Again, the ordinance, howsoever perfectly performed, would be useless unless it were administered by a man holding the priesthood, which is the power of God to administer in the ordinances of the gospel. The actual words used by the Christian sects are almost exactly like those used in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, with one fundamental difference, which we will note later. Much of religion, and, indeed, all mental life is interpreted or made plain to our senses by the means of symbols. We use _ a set of symbolic sounds grouped together as words, which convey a thought from mind to mind, or a thought "from me to you," as it were. We group a set of symbols on a page of paper and call them words and sentences. We shake hands, with the right hands, as a symbol of friendship; this is a survival of the oriental custom, for if the Arab offered his right or sword hand, it betokened that the defense of his sword went with it. All civil forms and ceremonies are symbols. 'Oaths of office, etc., are all taken in symbols, and symbollically expressed principles. Faith and repentance are accepted by all Christian religions as fundamental principles. How shall we show our faith and manifest our repentance to God? The Savior, himself, left 174 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Explicit instructions on that point. He indicated his own faith by obedience to the first ordinance of the gospel, by presenting himself to his cousin John, the Baptist, for baptism. The Christian world pretty generally accept baptism, the Catholics, Episcopalians, Presbyterians and Baptists making it obligatory for the candidate, although the Baptists do not believe in the baptism of infants, nor in sprinkling. Other sects, usually allow the candidate to choose it or not—as it is considered by them only "an outward sign of an inward grace." Yet most of them, except the Baptists, believe in baptism by sprinkling, or by pouring water on the candidates. Some form of baptism has been practiced from very ancient times. The word itself means immersion. The Jews have practiced baptism from the earliest times. Many allusions are found in the Old Testament, while it is generally conceded that John the Baptist was not introducing any new rite or ordinance when he went out to the river Jordan to baptize. See Psalms 51:82. Isaiah 1:2-18, Zech. 13:16. Acts 22:16. Read about the great Sea of Brass or font built in Solomon's temple from which our own fonts in our temples are modelled: I Kings 7:23-26, 39, 44: II Chron. 4:2, 5, 9, 10. Tertullian, the ancient historian, in his tract on baptism (155-222 A. D.) refers to ancient Egyptians, worshipers of Isis, who were initiated "through a font." Again he speaks of Greeks ''who were baptized into the mysteries of Apollo, and Eleusis." "Any one of the ancients," he adds, "anyone who had stained himself with homicide went in search of waters that could purify his guilt." Justin Martyr who lived between 90-120 A. D. In his Teachings of the Apostles gives the following form: "Baptize in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. In living water, but if thou hast not living water, baptize into other water; if thou canst not in cold, then in warm, but if thou hast not either, pour water upon the head thrice in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit." (Note the changing of the ordinance even this early in the Church's history, as shown in that last sentence.) Justin Martyr further says: "The candidate went into the font quite naked, he fasted for one or two days, as did his sponsor. Bishops, priests and deacons officiated." "After the candidate came out of the water they breathed upon him to exorcise devils, gave him milk, honey and salt as symbols, then anointed him all over with oil, touched his ears, lips and nose, with the ceremony of words attached. They clothed hiny in a white robe, and gave him a new name." GUIDE LESSONS. 175 These quotations are from the article on Baptism in the British Encyclopedia. Not until the third century was sprinkling and pouring introduced. The Church of Tyre, as described by Eusebius, had a font, and the Bishop of Jerus, in 330, ordered the font to be placed in the same building as the altar, "behind it, and on the right hand." Both the Catholic and Episcopalican articles say: "The priest is the ordinary minister of Baptism; but in case of necessity any one who has the use of reason may baptize." Let us give the story of baptism among the Catholics, as told by their own authors. We find it in What The World Believes, Chapter 17, page 281; this book contains accounts of the beliefs and ceremonies of ancient and modern churches, the articles for which were prepared by prominent representatives of the church so described; Elder Franklin D. Richards, of the Council of the Twelve, wrote our own chapter: In the Roman Catholic church chapter occurs the following: BAPTISM. "The sacrament of baptism is defined by the Church as one instituted by Jesus Christ, in order to wash away original sin, and all those actual ones which may have been committed; to communicate to mankind the spiritual regeneration and grace of Jesus Christ; and to unite them as living members to their head. The most essential part of the ceremony of baptism in the Catholic Church is as follows: At the church door the priest first asks the godfather and godmother what child they present to the Church whether or no they are its true godfather and godmother? If they be resolved to live and die in the true Catholic and Apostolic faith? And what name they intend to give it? All profane names, as those of the heathens and their gods, must be rejected. After the usual questions have been asked, the priest makes an exhortation to the godfather and godmother, with regard to the devotion which ought to accompany the whole performance. The exhortation being ended, the priest continues the ceremony; and calling the child by the name that is to be given it, asks it as follows: What dost thou demand of the church? To which the godfather answers, Faith. The priest adds, What is the fruit of faith? The godfather answers, Eterna life. The priest continues, if you are desirous of obtaining eternal life, keep: God's commandments: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, etc. After which he breathes three times upon the child's face, and at the same time says, Depart from the child, thou evil spirit, and make room for the Holy Ghost. This being done, with the thumb of his right hand he makes a cross on the child's forehead, and afterwards another on its breast, pronouncing these words: Receive the sign of the cross on thy forehead, and in thine heart. Whereupon he takes off his cap, repeats a short prayer, and laying his hand gently on the child's head, prays for him a second time. This second prayer being ended, the priest blesses the salt in case it was not blessed before; which being done, he takes a little of it, puts it into the - 176 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Child's mouth, pronouncing these words: Receive the salt of wisdom. He then repeats a third prayer; after which he puts on his cap, and exorcises the Prince of Darkness, commanding him to come forth out of him who is going to be baptized. At the end of the exorcism he again makes the sign of the cross on the child's forehead, lays his hand on its head, and repeats another prayer. After this fourth prayer, the priest lays the end of the stole upon the child, and admits it into the Church. The godfather and godmother enter at the same time, and repeat with the priest the Apostles' Creed and the Lord's Prayer, as they advance towards the font, which having reached, the priest exorcises the devil once again, and after the exorcism, takes saliva from his mouth with the thumb of his right hand. With this he rubs the child's ears and nostrils, and as he touches his right ear, repeats a Hebrew word, "Ephphetha," which signifies "Be thou opened;" the same which Jesus Christ said to the man who was born deaf and dumb. The priest then asks whether he renounces the devil and all his works, the pomps, etc. The godfather answers in the affirmative. The priest then anoints the child between the shoulders, in the form of a cross, and after that lays aside his violet stole, and puts on a white one; when the child is again questioned with respect to his belief, to which the godfather makes suitable answers in his name. These preliminaries being ended, the priest takes some of the baptismal water, which he pours thrice on the child's head in the form of a cross, and as he pours it, says, "I baptize thee, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost," taking care to pour the water at the same time that he pronounces the words, This being done, he anoints the top of the child's head with the crism, in the form of a cross, lays a piece of white linen upon its head, to represent the white garment mentioned in Scripture, and puts a lighted taper into the child's hand, or into that of the godfather. The form for baptizing adults is longer and more imposing. Both the Catholics and the Episcopalians allow laymen and even women to baptize "in cases of necessity." The Protestant churches permit only the clergy to baptize. The Greek Catholic Church, which is practically the same as the Russian Catholic Church, practices the same form of baptismal ceremony with this exception: They dip the infant three times in a little font of warm water, instead of sprinkling him, or pouring water on him. The Greeks rebaptize all Latins, who are admitted into their communion, and they do not baptize children until they are 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, and even sometimes 18 years of age. When the priest marks the sign of the cross on the forehead of the child, it is styled he "puts the seal upon the infant." The baptismal water is not only warmed, it is also perfumed with flowers, and while it is warming, the priest sanctifies it with a prayer, breaths upon it, and then pours oil into it, and it is with this oil which floats on top, that the child is anointed. In the Russian Church, the infant is baptized almost as soon as it comes into the world. The rest of the ceremonies are very much like the Greek and Roman ceremonies. When the priests puts the grain of salt into the infant's mouth, and GUIDE LESSONS. 177 anoints him several times in the form of a cross, he calls this ceremony a confirmation. Then he puts on a clean shirt saying, "Thou art now as clean as this shirt, and purified from the stain of original sin." To conclude the ceremony, a little gold or silver cross is hung about the infant's neck, as a badge or token of baptism. He wears this as long as he lives and carries this to his grave. The picture of some Saint is added to the cross, who has been appointed by the priest to be the child's guardian and protector, and the god-parents are told to teach the child to have a peculiar respect and veneration to his patron saint. The Episcopal form of baptism, requires two godfathers and one godmother for a male child, and two godmothers and oné godfather for a female child. The procession is not made by the priest at the church door, as is the case with the Catholic Church, but the child is presented at the font, and the godparents are asked about the same questions as are asked by the Catholic priest, and the Episcopal minister then exhorts the people to pray, and he says two prayers for the child. He next reads the tenth chapter of Mark, from the thirteenth verse on, and prays again. He instructs the godfathers and godmothers in their duties, receives their renunciation of the devil, in behalf of the child, and repeats with them the Profession of Faith. More prayers follow, and then the priest takes the child into his hands and baptizes him with the same ceremony used by the Catholic Church; namely, "I baptize thee in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit." Then the minister signs the child with the cross (this may be omitted if requested by the parents) repeats the Lord's prayer, then for the last time commits charges to the godfathers and godmothers. The Episcopal Church, like the Catholics, give this peculiar instruction: "The Priest is the ordinary minister of baptism; but in case of necessity any one who has the use of reason may baptize." (From Catechism of Christian Doctrine, approved by Cardinal Gibbon, 6 April, 1885, published, in Chicago, by Benziger Brothers, Printers to the Holy Sect.) On page 424 in What the World Believes; we \earn: The Presbyterian church, which is Calvanistic in all its creeds and forms, announces that: "Baptism in this church is practiced by none but ministers, who do it by sprinkling; and whether performed in private or public, it is almost always preceded by a sermon." The Presbyterian church rejects godfathers and godmothers, as unauthorized and inconsistent. Parents are accepted as the soul sponsors of the child. The actual words used are exactly 178 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The same as those used by the Catholic and Episcopalian churches. There is no exorcism of the devil nor signing with the cross upon the child's head, or body, and as the minister pronounces the words, he sprinkles the water on the face of the child without adding any further ceremony. The whole is concluded with a prayer. The Methodists follow the Presbyterians largely, especially in baptismal forms. The Congregationalists accept practically the same comparatively simple forms, and ceremonies, as do the other Protestant churches, but they do not always practice baptism, yet always, before adults are baptized into any of these churches, a catechism is committed to memory by the 'candidate, and the pastor questions the candidate or his sponsor in regard to the "Westminster Confession of Faith." The Unitarians who are an outgrowth of the Congregationalists, dissent from Calvinism and assert that the "Holy God is only One, not Three." In other words they deny the divine birth of Jesus Christ, worshipp9ing a God, as the only person in the Godhead. Universalists, are rather a combination of the Unitarians and Congregationalists. They do not hold any strict rules concerning forms and creeds. The Baptists are exceedingly liberal, if not rather loose, in their organization in these modern times and have varied differences "in practice. They maintain, however, a firm adherence to baptism by immersion and reject infant baptism. Roger Williams founded the church in America, (1639) and then left it, as he became convinced "that it was presumptuous for any man or company of men to undertake, the restoration of the true apostolic church without a special divine commission," (British Encyclopedia). Later there was a schism on the matter of confirmation or laying on of hands which was finally rejected. The Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith the simple form and manner of baptism, the words to be used, and above all, the Lord taught him that children who could not understand the reason for baptism, and because of very extreme youth, should not partake of that sacred rite. The Book of Mormon clearly indicates this through the teachings of Moroni. (Moroni 8:10-24.) The Savior taught the Nephites exactly how and whom to baptize. Read III Nephi, 11:25. Now, as to the words used in this symbolic ordinance. Most Christian sects, Catholics and Protestants, use the form found in the Book of Common Prayer. After questioning the sponsors, or godparents, the minister repeats a set form of address and set prayers, and at the last he uses this form of words: GUIDE LESSONS. — 179 "I baptize thee in the name of the Father, arid of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen,'' at the same time pouring or sprinkling the water on the infant. If the person is of riper years, he is required to learn the principles of the Christian religion (a Catechism with the 39 Articles of Faith) and to prepare himself with fasting and prayer. Questions are then asked by the minister concerning the candidate's future godly conduct, and if he accepts the articles of the Christian faith and the Apostles' Creed, he is then baptized by the minister pouring a little water with his right hand on the head of the candidate, the minister repeating the same formula. The ceremony used is like our own with two essential differences: our elders baptize by immersion always. Moreover, when about to begin the ceremony, the elder raises his right arm and says: "Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen." (Doc. And Cov. Sec. 20:73.) Note the phrase which precedes the ceremony, 'Being commissioned of Jesus Christ." That constitutes the vital difference between the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and all other religions on the earth. As we learned in our first lesson, all these principles, doctrines and ordinances rest directly upon the authority of the priesthood. Baptism for the dead was practiced in ancient times; and in the regular burial service of all Catholic, Episcopalian, and most of the Protestant churches, occurs that question of Paul's, "Else, if the dead rise not at all, why are ye then baptized for the dead?" In vain endeavor to explain away this vital passage, the British Encyclopedia, in the article on baptism, says: "Paul, in 1 Cor, 15:29, glances at this principle of baptism for the dead as an established practice familiar to those whom he addresses. Three explanations are possible: (1) The Saints before they were quickened or made alive together with Christ, were dead through their trespasses and sins. In baptism they were buried with Christ and arose, like him, from the dead. We can, therefore, paraphrase v. 29 thus, 'Else what shall they do which are baptized for their dead selves?" It is in behalf of his own sinful, i. E., dead self, that the sinner is baptized and receives eternal life. (2) Contact with the dead entailed 'a pollution which lasted at least a day and must be washed away bv ablutions, before a man is re-admitted to religious cult, This was the rule among the Jews. Is it possible that the words for the dead signify because of contact with the dead?' (3) Both these explanations are forced, and it is more probable that by a make-believe, common in all religions, and not unknown 'a the earliest church, the sins of dead relatives, about whose salvation their survivors were anxious, were transferred into living persons, who assumed for the once their names and were baptized in their behalf; so, in vicarious wise, 180 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Rendering it possible for the sins of the dead to be washed away. The 'Mormons' have this rite. The idea of transferring sin into another man or into an animal, and so getting it purged through him or it, was widespread in the age of Paul and long afterwards. Chrysostom says that the substitutes were put into the beds of the deceased, and assuming the voice of the dead asked for baptism and remission of sins. Tertullian and others attest this custom among the followers of Cerinthus and Marcion." The Latter-day Saints know that baptism for the dead is essential, because the symbol pertains to earth life and the dead need the regenerating influence of the Savior's death and resurrection, symbolically administered, for their earthly bodies as well as for their spiritual tabernacles. Christ was born and died upon this earth, so the symbol of baptism must be performed upon this earth. For further items concerning this subject see the Compendium, Ready Reference, and Orson Pratt's works, etc., etc. QUESTIONS. What are symbols? Name some of daily use not. Referred to in this lesson. What is a sacrament? What can you say of baptism? Quote Matt. 28:19, Mark 16:16, John 1:33, John 3:5. Quote Pearl of Great Price, page 17. ' What is the proper mode of baptism? Why? Who are proper candidates for baptism? What can you tell about baptism for the dead? 10. Why should the dead receive this ordinance? 11. Who has the authority to baptize? 12. May women officiate in this ordinance? Why not? 13. Why should men who officiate be commissioned of Jesus Christ? 14. What do you know about baptism for the dead? 15. Who should perform baptisms for the dead? 16. Where should baptisms for the dead be performed? 17. Why should men holding the Priesthood perform these ordinances? SORNAMPWN ry GUIDE LESSONS. 181 LESSON II. Work and Business. (Second Week in May.) LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in May) Before turning to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells' poems specifically, we shall. Discuss, in brief, poetry as distinguished from prose. Any subject that one cares to discuss may be a topic for prose discourse; while poetry must be select in its choice of subject. The thought, the feeling, and the form in poetry are usually lifted above what we regard as ordinary. A scientist might write a very acceptable article on sawdust, or an ash can; but it would take a genius of the highest order to lift such subjects into the realm of poetry. The diction of poetry is heightened. It is all very well in poetry to say: "What hands are here? Ha! They pluck out mine eyes! Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood Clean from my hand? No, this my hand will rather the multitudinous seas inqgarnadine, Making the green one red." Such language would be little short of sheer nonsense in prose. The musical or rythmical quality is insisted on in poetry. This does not necessarily mean rhyme. Such poetry as is used in the writing of a drama, or a narrative poem, frequently omits the rhyme, that the verse may be free. The song, or lyric poetry usually employs the rhyme. 7 Some one has, rather cleverely, described prose as one's mental content presented in a business suit, while poetry makes its appearance in a dress suit. "Sing the Sweet,' is a song of the Christ, in five stanzas. The author takes us from the birth scene to the great Mediator who stands before the throne of God, seeking the salvation of those he had shed his blood to redeem. "Aunt Em" says that the beauty and deep significance of the Christ life and mission inspired this hymn. The first two stanzas are devoted to the birth story, beginning: 182 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Sing the sweet and lovely story," etc. We always think of this scene with great tenderness, this thought is emphasized by the author. One author might have chosen one detail, another, another, in bringing that picture into being. Mrs. Wells chooses the morning star of glory. Nature certainly makes large appeal to her in all of her poetry. "Birds had nests the foxes roaming," etc. - This stanza beginning thus was undoubtedly inspired by the passage of Scripture beginning, ""The foxes have holes," etc., an effective allusion to a very beautiful passage. "Now for us He's interceding," etc. It is the vision of Christ, the Mediator, that catches the eye of the imagination as we read this stanza. One of the chief merits of the hymn is its conciseness. In five brief stanzas we have gone from the cradle to the throne of the Eternal. Aunt Em's second hymn. Might fittingly be used as a funeral hymn. It was written while she struggled with the pangs incident to the loss of her daughter Emmeline. Emmeline Wells, the daughter of Emmeline B. And Daniel H. Wells was born Sept. 10, 1853, and died at the age of twentyfour. She was a school teacher, having assisted Miss Cook in her work in Salt Lake City. She was a beautiful singer; a most attractive young woman. Her mother felt her death with a keenness that she has never forgotten. The hymn begins: "We lay thee softly down to sleep," etc. The first stanza takes us to' the grave of the beloved, where angels vigils keep. Death is looked upon as a sleep, and the hope of meeting is sure. The second stanza breathes a note of sorrow, as well as words of perfect resignation. We are still at the tomb by the loved earthly remains, but hope is there. In the last stanza, flowers are being strewn on the grave, in gentleness and deepened sorrow; again hope pierces the gloom, with the thought of the realm where sorrow and parting are no more. This hymn is infinitely tender throughout, and possesses the two prime requisites of a funeral hymn, resignation and hope. Indeed it is a notable fact that each stanza contains a reference to the life beyond life. The tenderness, is produced first of all by the emotional quality, and secondly by the diction. The music of the stanza is one of the pleasing and poetic features of the hymn. It would be a most extraordinary and incredible thing if some of the Latter-day Saint hymns did not reflect our natural GUIDE LESSONS. 183 environment. It is a matter of great interest, that President Charles W. Penrose and President Emmeline B. Wells should have written two of the best, as well as the best known Mountain hymns in our now rather large collection of hymns. Unlike President Penrose's beautiful hymn, Mrs. Wells hymn was written in the valleys, and takes first place among her poems set to music. "Our Mountain Home so Dear." The outstanding beauty of this hymn is found in the fact that it is absolutely true in its local color. It is not the mountains of Switzerland, nor the Berkshire hills, far famed in the state where "Aunt Em" was born, that are imaged and written of in this poem, but Our Mountain Home. In proof of this statement let us follow some of the details that give local color. One of the features that has distinguished the intermountain cities, and particularly the cities of Utah, has been the streams that have coursed through the streets giving life to the trees, which grew on their banks, The second line of the first stanza speaks of "crystal waters clear." The second line of the second stanza, refers to the "sparkling rills,' and the first line of the fourth stanza speaks of the streamlet, this time giving the spiritual meaning. Nothing is more characteristic of the desert we have settled, than the sunshine of the summer time. It makes us think of the poet Wordsworth's famous lines, "The sunshine is a glorious birth." This brilliant sunshine is found in "Aunt Em's'" poem. In the last line of the second stanza the author writes of "sunshine everywhere.' Even the expression "sparkling rills" suggests sunshine, for it is the sunlight most of all that makes the rills sparkle; and certainly it is the sunshine that makes the landscape "bright and fair." The second stanza begins: "We'll roam the verdant hills," etc. Does that not take us on to some mountain side, or into some canyon where such experience is ours every hour? "In Sylvan depths and shade," etc. The last two stanzas not only give the spiritual meaning of the poem, marking "Aunt Em" as a true child of New England, and a natural daughter of the Latter-day Saints; but they give religious significance to what might otherwise be a nature lyric pure and simple. In other words, back of the pure joy we have from nature for her own sake, is the great and tremendous fact that all these things are the handiwork of God, who is the Creator of the heavens and the earth. This, the poet tells us, in her beautiful climax, is the "art divine." 184 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. This truism is the wonderful message of the third and fourth stanzas. "Where'er we pass,- The hand of God we see In leaf and bud and tree," etc. In the last stanza the emotional quality is heightened. Variety is obtained by using the word bespeak, instead of repeating the word she used in a former stanza. A grand climax is suggested at the close combining all the works of God bespeaking his divine power and divine art through the smiling face of nature. The diction in this poem fits the thought, and the verse becomes part of a stanza that suggests with every word God's great outdoor world, in lines that please the ear. Lines that have been set to music, which echo and re-echo "in the Valley Home" "Aunt Em" loves so well, by the throngs of Zion's children, and the sweet singers that dwell in this cherished spot, where "crystal waters clear flow ever free. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Devote as much time as the lesson period will permit to a biographical sketch of President Emmeline B. Wells. 2. A. Suggest some subjects that you think would be worth the heart, brain, and pen of a poet. B. Suggest some subjects that you think would be unworthy the pen of a poet. 3. A. Under what title is Emmeline B. Wells' book of poems published. B. Give the titles of her three hymns included in the Latter-day Saints hymn book. 4, Give the full quotation beginning, "Foxes have holes, etc." 5. What event in her life prompted the writing of, "Sing ye of a home?" 6. Find the phrase in each stanza that gives hope of a life beyond. 7. Indicate how the noble faith and resignation, expressed in "Aunt Em's" poem, would help others bowed down with sorrow and a sense of deep bereavement, to bear their losses nobly and with resignation. 8. Select words and phrases that go to show that the writer is intimately acquainted with "Our Mountain Home." 9. Give some reasons showing that "Aunt Em," above all other women in the Church, is best equipped for the writing of "Our Mountain Home." GUIDE LESSONS. 185 10. How has Emmeline B. Wells love of nature assisted in her religious life? 11. What spiritual message is contained in "Our Mountain Home''? LESSON IV Social Service. (Fourth Week in May) CHILD LABOR Its Use and Abuse in Human Development The purpose of child labor legislation is to correct abuses, or to prevent the exploitation of the child for material gain. The most flagrant cases of child exploitation occurred in England, as late as the middle of the 19th century, in the coal mines and in factories. These abuses were also common in manufacturing centers in the United States. More than fifty years ago Massachusetts passed laws forbidding employment in factories of children under ten, and limiting employment of those between ten and fourteen years. The principles upon which this type of legislation is based is that the child has a right to a reasonable opportunity for both 'physical and mental development, and that it is in harmony with the welfare of society that these rights should be protected. Child labor in mines and in factories is especially objectionable because so manifestly detrimental to child development. The monotony of it, its possible danger to life and limb, in case of inexperienced children, and its liability to unsanitary conditions, are manifest. It is not customary to restrict by law child labor on farms and in homes. A limited amount of varied farm labor experience has generally been regarded as a valuable factor in development of a boy; the same may be said of home work for a girl. This, however, is left to the judgment of parents, except as restricted indirectly by compulsory school attendance laws. The social and economic conditions that have thus far prevailed in the Rocky Mountain region have made child labor a much less difficult problem than in some of the great centers of population. It happens in some of our western cities and towns that the problem is reversed. Children, when out of school, grow up on the streets and in other public places, without opportunity to spend a little time each day in work suitable to de- 186 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Velop habits of industry, responsibility and sense of economic values—essential qualities of character in every citizen. Some extreme opponents of child labor have gone so far as to say that a young person should be entirely free from work and its responsibilities up to the age of twenty-one—doubtless an excellent method of making irresponsible drones. It is very important that all the time of both children and youths be well occupied. Habits of merely loafing or getting into mischief may be worse than some forms of child labor. The young infant should be well occupied with sleep about eighteen hours out of twenty-four. As soon as he is able, his waking hours, not occupied in feeding, are devoted to play. Certain phases of initiative play develop into work, as do such simple activities as getting dressed and undressed, and putting clothing in its proper place. If the child is not trained early in these simple responsibilities, the task becomes doubly hard. At six or seven years the child's time properly becomes occupied with schooling, play, and suitable work, the last named in very limited amount; schooling is meant to include private lessons in activities such as music or folk-dancing. Play is a very important factor in the child's development. As he becomes mature, however, the proportion of time devoted to play,+as a major occupation and to work, as a minor occupation, should be very gradually reversed. This transition should, however, be so managed as always to keep in mind the good of the child; to give him the best opportunities for development of body and mind, not neglecting his positive moral development. In this connection suitable work is very necessary. One of the most important habits to be acquired is that of thoughtfulness of the comfort and welfare of others, and unselfish action. How many mothers ruin their own health and happiness by slaving for their sons and daughters, while at the same time they ruin their children's morals by confirming in them habits of laziness, selfishness and thoughtlessness? There is in every household some work suitable for healthy boys and girls. To make use of these opportunities in the moral training of children is just as important as to send them to school. It is a good thing to give an older child a little regular work and hold him strictly responsible for it. He may want to do it at first and as readily want some one else to do it for him when he is disinclined. When children rule the household, the parents do the children's tasks as often as the children require. It is needless to say that this also is morally ruinous. The firmness and persistence necessary to develop responsibilities in the child will, at times, require more parental labor than child labor, but it pays. GUIDE LESSONS. 187 QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES 1. (a) Do some farmers require too much work, or unsuitable work, of their boys under fourteen years of age? Give illustrations and reasons. (b) Do same mothers do likewise with their daughters of the same age?. 2. Why are long hours at monotonous work, even though easy, objectionable, in case of children under fourteen years? 3. Give examples of work suitable to children: (a) In case of girls seven to ten, (b) Ten to fourteen years, {c) In case of boys seven to ten, (d) Ten to fourteen years. Explain how this work may be beneficial to the child. 4. Show how failure to requife any work of children, seven to fourteen years of age, may be detrimental to the child. Give illustrations. 5. Explain the mother's responsibility in training her daughters in habits of service in the home. 6. (a) In what way is the labor of children up to 14, 16, or 18 years of age limited by law in your state? (b) What is the purpose of this law? 7. State the principle by which you can determine in any case what work to require and what not to require of a child of any given age? PROSPECTIVE MOTHER By Addie S. Pace Prospective mother: The purest emblem of unselfish love, thou art, As soul to soul thou dost commune with newly pulsing heart, As hand in hand with God thou treadest holy ground, With him dost mould immortal clay When lo! His masterpiece is formed. Prospective mother: The sweetest task of all life's given tasks is thine, Responsibility it is that makes it so sublime, A privilege ne'er equalled in all the work of art, To fashion that tabernacle fit to clothe a spark of God. Prospective mother: Let thy day of privilege be one glad day of song, To show thy worthiness of favors so divine, sing on, sing on; Fear thou no evil, though thy way through shadow lies, God shall not desert thee, nor forget thy noble sacrifice. W. R. McDONALD, Pres. D. H. CANNON, Mer. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling 4 Uses Roof Garden Chocolate (Sweetened) Cake Icing Bon Bon Dipping Hot Chocolate _ Eating New, different, delicious—Roof Garden Chocolate is a sweetened chocolate that is at once a dainty confection for eating, a bon bon coating, a rich drinking chocolate and an icing for cake. In any of its four uses, Roof Garden Chocolate requires no butter, no sugar, no eggs and no flavoring. And it's absolutely no trouble. Complete and simple directions are on every package. McDonald's New York Chicago Salt Lake San Francisco BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices.. Call at our Burial Clothes Department. Room 22 Bishop's Building. Prompt attention given all out of town orders. TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month For the pat TEN MONTHS. One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have You Seen It? THE Deseret News Progressive The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine, of which they will be glad to dispose at the price quoted below: 12 Vol. Of 1915, Cloth Bound, at.................. $1.75 National Bank Bound at................ 2.00 The officers are always and discuss business 2 plans with them. All orders should be addressed to officers 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Heber J. Geant, President. Utah. Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President. Alvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier make appropriate gifts. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. "DELIVERED EVERYWHERE" Keeley’s Best by Test Ice Cream Special attention given to parcel post candy orders The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine, of which they will be glad to dispose at the price quoted below: 12 Vol. of 1915, Cloth Bound, at $1.75. 1 Vol. Of 1918, Leather bound at 2.00 15c extra for postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Bound volumes of the Magazine make appropriate gifts. Watch for Our New "Mountaineer" Strong Seam Overalls, Auto Suits Kiddies Allovers For Boys, Youths and Men—they don't rip; wear like leather. You will Need New Furniture this Spring Buy it at a store with a reputation for fair dealing, prompt service and where prices are always lowest. President W.N Williams Secy. And Treas. Clarissa S. Williams 33- 35-37 SOUTH MAIN: FIRST DOOR SOUTH OF Z-C-M-I PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language—a language understood by everybody. Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"—the kind they make at Lumiere Studio W. N. Williams. Phone Was. 2861 6 Main St., Salt Lake LIEE SOCIETY ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15e Single Copy VOLUME VIII APRIL, 1921 NUMBER 4 L. D. S. GARMENTS The Sign of Quality Brand GARMENTS The Sign of Comfort If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States Samples submitted upon request. 2 Unbranded special, light wt., $1.65 15 Bleached spring needle gauze, 1.85 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached, 2.25 3 Cotton, gauze wt. Bleached, 2.50 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached, 2.50 100 Cotton, heavy wt., bleached, 2.75 90 Cotton, heavy wt. Unbleached, $2.75 50 Lisle, gauze weight, bleached, 3.00 107 Merino wool, medium weight, 3.75 109 Merino wool, heavy weight, 4.75 65 Mercerized, It. Wt., bleached, 5.00 120 % Australian wool, light wt. 6.00 The only approved Garments made with wide flaps at back, button holes for better fastening down front, and set in shoulder pieces to prevent sleeves stretching. Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 South Main St. Salt Lake City Look for Food Values in the Food You Buy You cannot be happy unless you are healthy, and you cannot be healthy unless you eat food with real nourishment in it. ROYAL BREAD The bread that made |e. Beo| mother quit baking is the food of foods—it's flour and milk and compressed yeast combined into a loaf that has an appetite satisfaction in every slice. Bread is your Best Food—Eat more of it. Your neighborhood grocer sells ROYAL BREAD. Royal Baking Co. SALT LAKE The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop. $100.00 For this Beauty. Take 15 months to pay Daynes-Beebe Music Co established 1860 61-3-5 Main St Joseph J. Daynes President Capital $350,000.00 Older than the State of Utah. TEA CAPITA: C4 VOUDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAMEGDUTOORUSEUUGED NAN SHNANGONN Style Style 145 Pure silk, Price Price 12.00 BUY AT DICKINSON'S 'the right weigh'"' Where up-to-date methods make shopping a pleasure for you, whether you select your requirements, or order them over the 'phone. It is our pride to deliver to you the exact quality and quantity that you purchase. Our most valuable asset: "Satisfied Customers." CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES Hyland 60. 680 East Second South Street. Latter-Day Saints Garments APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. 111 Light weight, cotton................$1.75 120 Light weight, bleached............ 2.00 160 Medium weight, cotton.......... 2.25 122 Medium weight, bleached...... 2.25 190 Heavy weight, cotton............ 2.75 No. 124 Heavy weight, bleached........$3.00 150 Extra white ................. 4.00 110 Medium wool, mixed..... 4.00 116 Heavy wool, mixed..................5.00 118 Extra heavy wool.................. 6.50 WASATCH WOOLEN MILLS No. 657 Iverson Street Salt Lake City, Utah *the personal tastes, adapted to What Do Your Children Read? Guiding children in their reading is a big, vital problem. There are so man, wholesome, inspiring volumes that you cannot afford to let them read anything trashy or cheap. Co-operate with our Juvenile Department. Let us suggest Booke that are high class, Books that meet ages. Write for lists. Deseret Book Company A REAL self-filling Pen Guaranteed to Satisfy Ask about it Write about it McConahay "The Jeweler" 64 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake's Leading Opticians LOUIS A. JAMES and DONALD C. JAMES OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS Globe Optical Company East 2nd South (Walker Bank Bldg.) Salt Lake City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS APRIL, 1921 How Can I Know?.............. Bertha A. Kleinman 189 Opening of the Chinese Realm for the Preaching of the Gospel 191 European and Near-East Relief Fund................. 203 Sarah Uses Tact........2065Bessie Van Wagonen 205 There are Times........... Helen Kimball Orgill 208 From Zion to Jerusalem........208 Notes from the Field................ Amy Brown Lyman 211 Out of the World.................005-G. Milton Babcock 217 World Happenings...............-. James H. Anderson 223 Editorial: What About our Clothes?................... 227 Nuts as Daily Food........ 232 Death of President Anthon H. Lund.............. 234 Birthday Reception for President Emmeline B. Wells 235 Guide Lessons for June........... 237 ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY &§ Patronize those who patronize us. COOP FURNITURE CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. ROYAL BREAD CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. DICKINSON'S, 680 East Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. WASATCH WOOLEN MILLS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. THE DESERET NEWS, Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Z. C. M. I., Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah. GLOBE OPTICAL CO., East Second South, Salt Lake City, Utah. KEELEY'S, Salt Lake City, Utah. LUMIERE STUDIO, Salt Lake City, Utah, 6 Main St. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City, Utah. McDONALD CANDY CO., Sait Lake City, Utah. How Can I Know? By Bertha A. Kleinman. I cannot doubt, with all my life undimmed, Nor pungent dreg in all my long, glad day, I do not wonder for I know of Him, And feel His sanction often when I pray; Aye, undenied, the day's good meed bequeathed, And all my trust requitted everywhere, *Tis good to live and easy to believe, And gratitude incenses me to prayer. Untried, unproven all the routine through, With service summed in tasks I favor best, How can I boast or know what I would do, Should chastening want proclaim me for the test? What would I do, should rankling spite unfold, And changes come to measure my defeat, Should night shut down and find me spent and old, And avid doubt my happiness escheat? O Thou who trusted me and sent me forth, And gave the day to stage my every act, Evolve my heritage and power and worth, And answer Thee when Thou shalt call me back— Thou who mayst scourge whomso thou wilt and how, Proving thine own as kernels from the dust— -Give me but this, to love Thee, then as now, E'en though I fail in all save that I trust! Elder David O. MacKay at the Elder Hugh J. Cannon at the edge Place of Dedication of the Chinese of famine district. Realm. The Place of Dedication of the Japanese Mission, Sunday September 1, 1901. Left to right: Horace Ensign, Alma O. Taylor, President Heber J. Grant, Louis A. Kelch. THE Relief Society Magazine Vor. VIII APRIL, 1921 No. 4 Opening of the Chinese Realm for the Preaching of the Gospel The opening of the Chinese mission is of peculiar significance to the Latter-day Saints, and especially to the women of the Relief Society, because the women of China have long needed the enlightening influences of the gospel to correct the stultifying condition which always obtains when a people live without the light of pure revelation. It is interesting to note that the students of history claim that China was settled in the following manner: About this time it is supposed that Noah, wearied with the growing depravity of his descendants, retired with a few select friends to the remotest part of Asia, and there begun what has since been called the Chinese monarchy. Its early history is not connected with that of other nations, and is also very obscure and much mixed with fable. Confucius, the great Chinese philosopher, is supposed to have flourished about 500 B. C. (From Lyman's Historical Chart 2100, B. C.) It is certain that the Japanese and Chinese people are somewhat dissimilar, and students have long recognized the fact, both through their various religions and their sociological conditions, that they spring probably from separate human roots. There was an attempt made, in 1853, to introduce the gospel into China as the following extracts from the Millennial Star will indicate. The letter of Hosea Stout reads like ancient history, in the light of modern conditions in China: THE CHINA MISSION (From the Millennial Star, Volume 15, Page 250): "We have received a letter from Elder James Lewis, dated San Francisco, Feb. 14, who with Elders Hosea Stout and Duncan Chapman, 192 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. R e is on a mission to China. Elder Lewis states that, at the date of his letter, all the elders for the other missions had sailed from San Francisco, and that himself and Elders Stout and Chapman were expecting to sail in a few days from there, for Hong Kong. It is our prayer that these brethren may be enabled to open-the doors and windows of the "Celestial Empire," that its inhabitants may be cheered with the celestial light that is now beaming from the heaven of heavens. It will afford us special pleasure to hear, from time to time, of the progress of the various missions which are now on foot amongst the nations." THE CHINA MISSION (From the Deseret News, Dec. 22nd). (Quoted from Millennial Star, Volume 16, page 253.) San Francisco, Aug. 27, 1852. President B. Young—Dear Sir: We have an opportunity, which we improve in writing a few lines. We did not think our letter would be from this point; but one does not always know his situation regarding the future. We left this place for Hong Kong, March 8, and have so soon returned to our starting point. We can truly say, that we had the strongest faith, animated by enjoying much of the Spirit of the Lord, that a good work would be done in that land. We arrived at Hong Kong, April 27, and began the labor which was before us. We, however, found the situation and condition of that country entirely the reverse of what we expected, from the information we could gather in California. We found about 250 Europeans, or the would-be-nabobs of the world, merchants, officers of the civil governments, no common class, which are found in English colonies in other parts of the world. This class we found almost unapproachable, on account of their wealth and popularity; they look with contempt upon all who are not of the same grade with themselves; also a few lawyers, doctors, and a small sprinkling of missionaries, also of the upper circles, luxuriating upon the proceeds of the cent societies at home, and the miseries of the people in that region. There are about one thousand soldiers, the most of whom are Irish and Scotch, some English, some blacks from Ceylon. They are closely kept in barracks, having only from five to eight o'clock p. M. For recess. They are so fond of the licensed privileges found among the Chinese women, that they are as corrupt as vicious habits can make them. The balance of the population are made up of four or five grades of Chinese, ranging from the merchants to the coolies, who are the carriers of burthens; also Malays, Lascars, Parsees, Portuguese, Negroes, Tartars, etc., a heterogeneous mass of tongues, manners, customs, and religions. The other five parts, called free, are of the same stripe, only there are not so many whites. Very few of the Chinese speak anything like good English, and that only so far as trade goes. The only Europeans and Americans residing at Canton, Amoy, Macao, Ningpoo, Fouchow, Chinchew, vary from 75 to 100 each; at Shanghai, about 250. They are of the same class of aristocracy as Hong Kong, only more so. They are called the most inhospitable people in the world, and from what we have witnessed we know it is true in many respects. We began to make our business known upon our arrival, and having OPENING OF THE CHINESE REALM. 193 the privilege of stopping in an old decayed mansion for a short time, we tried for an opening to preach. Some of the people seemed quite friendly, and wished us success. No house could be obtained. We took to the streets, and there began to teach the principles of the gospel. Some of the people professed to be acquainted with our society in England, and had read our character in the papers; this was revamped and given to the people. This, however, did not discourage us, for we were used to such things. A few of our lectures were very well attended, many stopped to hear us, but soon our congregations dwindled down till not a soul would stop or attend. Not disheartened, we encouraged each other, and continued to preach still (batting the air), and visited the people individually for private teaching as long as one person would hear, distributing our books and pamphlets, for their perusal, trusting in the God of Israel, and claiming the blessings and promises placed upon us, pushing forward to find an opening, to see some one who would hear and feel interested in our message. We visited the Chinese who could speak English. They are generally in the employ of the missionaries or the government, and command high wages. They told us they had no time to talk on religion. At this time we began to feel, by the spirit, that the way was darkening before us; yet we continued to hope. Our books were returned without a desire to ask a question or answer ours, or thanks for their use. We looked to the other ports of China; true we had the privilege of visiting them, but what the chance of success? The only safe place was Hong Kong, owing to the revolution spreading through that country. At many of these places, the whites were preparing to leave, or going on board vessels in the harbor, for protection. To go among the Chinese we could not, not being able to speak their language. Thus things continued till we felt that nothing could be done at present. We could neither turn to the right nor left, having scanty means. To remain, and no possible. Resource perceivable for substance. The way opened for us to return to this point, where we could wait the counsel of the Presidency regarding our future movements. The language is only obtained from a living tongue, as it cannot be expressed in English, owing to the intonations and inflections of the voice in the same word for upon the sound depends the meaning. One word may have from 10 to 30 different meanings; these are given by the tone, the same as in music; and to attempt to write the language, would be to prove Phonography too short at one end. Teachers are not easily obtained who can speak English, and they charge very high, and are under the control of the missionaries. In each district in China there is a different dialect, so that one cannot understand the other; yet they have the same characters. The residents in that land are only there as temporary persons to acquire a fortune—their God is their money—and only remain on commercial business with the nation exchanging each for the products of the country. The Catholic missionaries, who are mostly of the Asiatic clime, have obtained the language while young; they adopt the manners and customs of the Chinese, shave their head, wear tails, and go among them, and it is said they have some success; the others do nothing. Report says that the rebel party are Christians; how this is, we do not know, as it is contradicted. The language must be obtained either by study or the power of God, before we can tell them the truths of heaven. How this is to be brought about, is the question which may be asked, and that is the very thing that we would like to know. Upon our arrival here, we heard of brothers Canfield and Wade 194 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Being appointed to operate with us in China. After having consulted together, we have thought to lay the situation of that country before you, and that Brother Hosea Stout should return to the Valley, and will leave in a few days in company with Brother Harvey Green, by way of San Bernardino. Respectfully we remain your brethren in the gospel, Hosea Stout, James Lewis, Chapman Duncan, And now we have the pleasing knowledge that the Chinese realm has been opened by the dedication services performed by Elder David O. McKay and his companion, Elder Hugh J. Cannon, on their recent trip around the world. The following account of the dedicatory services has been furnished to The Magazine, and we give it exactly as written by Brother Cannon and sent to us: Elder David O. McKay, of the Council of the Twelve, and President Hugh J. Cannon, of the Liberty Stake of Zion, arrived in Peking, the chief city of China, Saturday evening, January 8, 1921. The horde of ragged and revolting mendicants, grimy porters and insistent jinrikisha men, who fought noisily for possession of us, as we emerged from the station, was not such as to inspire a feeling of affectionate brotherhood. However, we had gone to Peking to do the Lord's will, as nearly as we could ascertain what it was. His inspiration rested upon his servant in charge, and Elder McKay decided that the land should be dedicated and set apart for the preaching of the gospel of the Master. It seemed most desirable that this should be done on the following day, as that was the only Sabbath we should be in Peking. But where, in the midst of that clamor and confusion, could a suitable spot be found? The city lies on a level, barren plain. There are no forests, and, as far as we know, no groves nor even clumps of trees. We are wholly unfamiliar with the city and had met no one who could enlighten us. If we went outside the surrounding walls, there was reason to believe no secluded spot could be found nor the ever-present crowd of supplicants avoided. January 9 dawned clear and cold. With no definite goal in mind, we left the hotel and walked through the legation quarter, under the shadow of dear Old Glory, out into what is known as "The Forbidden City," past the crumbling temples reared to a "Unknown God." Directed, as we believe, by a higher Power, we came to a grove of cypress trees, partially surrounded by an old moat, and walked to its extreme northwest corner, then retraced our steps until reaching a tree with divided trunk which had attracted our attention when we first saw it. "This is the spot," said Elder McKay. A reposeful peace hovered over the place which seemed already hallowed; one felt that it was almost a profanation to tread thereon with covered head and feet. Two men were in sight, but they seemed oblivious to our presence and they soon left the grove. There, in the heart of a city with a million inhabitants, we were entirely alone, except for the presence of a divinely sweet and comforting spirit. An act destined to affect the lives of four hundred and fifty millions of people now living, as well as of millions and perhaps billions yet unborn, calls forth feelings of profound solemnity, and that, too, despite the fact that the vast majority of those affected may die in ignorance of the event. After a prayer had been offered and the spot dedicated as a place of supplication and for the fulfilment of the object of our visit, Elder David O. McKay, in the authority of the Holy Apostleship, dedicated and set apart the Chinese Realm for the preaching of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, whenever the Church authorities shall deem it advisable to send out missionaries for that purpose. Never was the power of his calling more apparent in his utterances. He blessed the land and its benighted people, and supplicated the Almighty to acknowledge this blessing. He prayed that famine and pestilence might be stayed, that the government might become stable, either through its own initiative or by the intervention of other powers, and that superstition and error, which for ages have enveloped the people, might be discarded, and Truth take their place. He supplicated the Lord to send to this land broad-minded and intelligent men and women, that upon them might rest the spirit of discernment and the power to comprehend the Chinese nature, so that in the souls of this people an appreciation of the glorious gospel might be awakened. It was such a prayer and blessing as must be recognized in heaven, and though the effects may not be suddenly apparent, they will be none the less real. And never, perhaps, has there been a land more greatly in need of heavenly aid. One cannot help but feel that if it were not for the watchful and unselfish attitude of the United States, China's national rights would very quickly be invaded. With the largest population of any country in the world, she is wholly impotent, and in addition to her own helplessness, a curse seems to overshadow her. Millions of her people are starving. It is estimated by the committee in charge of the relief work that five dollars will save a life, but the five dollars must come from abroad. And yet, if this nation would observe one of the simplest of the Lord's commandments, that of the monthly fast, and give the meals thus saved to those in need, the famine problem would be solved. This would furnish two meals daily to each of the fifteen million sufferers. The cypress tree is a symbol of sorrow and sadness in China, and this cypress grove seemed a peculiarly fitting place in which to invoke the blessing of heaven upon this oppressed and sorrowing people. The accompanying picture shows the tree, and Brother McKay, where the dedicatory prayer was offered. At Shan-Hai-Kuan, the point at which that wonder of wonders, the great Chinese Wall, meets the sea, and on the frontier of the famine district, we took a picture which we are presenting herewith. Though the morning was bitterly cold, we judged it to be zero weather, some of these people were nearly naked. The shreds and patches which only partially covered their emaciated and shivering bodies might well feel complimented at being called rags. One contemplates China's past accomplishments with a feeling akin to awe. We respect old age and especially so when, with antiquity, we see achievement; and it is well to remember that this land had a highly developed civilization nearly twenty-five centuries before the Christian Era. Notwithstanding her pitiably inane condition, we have met some admirable Chinese people, and cherish the sincere hope that at no very distant day the light of the gospel may penetrate the present overwhelming darkness. Though the abject misery we beheld appealed to our tenderest sympathies, gold and silver we could not give, but the door was unlocked for them, through which they may enter into eternal life. Elder Duncan McAllister reports the fact that there are a number of full-blooded Chinese Latter-day Saints in the Sandwich Islands, one of whom has received his endowments in the Hawaiian Temple. Henry W. Aki is a successful merchant, on Fourth Street, in Honolulu. His wife is a Japanese. They have been sealed in the temple and their children sealed to them. Five faithful Chinese men and a number of women, received their patriarchal blessings under the hands of Elder McAllister; one of the men is named Afoon, another Ahkin, Charles Ake and wife, these of Honolulu, and Laie; and Joseph Ah Moy San, of Hilo. All of these are earnest Latter-day Saints; some of them were born on the Sandwich Islands. OPENING OF THE CHINESE REALM. 197
An interesting story of the Chinese Empire concerns a distinguished party of Chinese philosophers who came to this city some years ago. Governor Bamberger appointed a committee to entertain the party. Dr. John A. Widtsoe, a member of the committee tells the story about as follows: Two of the three chief members of the party were former cabinet ministers. One had been a minister of the Chinese empire three times, and the third had just left the post of minister of education to the Chinese republic. The third chief member was the president of one of the leading colleges of China—a graduate of American and European universities. They represented the most prominent, and the wisest classes among the Chinese people. The party had landed at Vancouver; had gone directly to Boston and Washington, from there direct to Salt Lake City, with a brief stop on the way at a small college where a number of Chinese students were studying. It seemed strange that this distinguished party should single out, in so long a journey, Boston, Washington and Salt Lake City, as the chief and practically the only stopping places. Naturally, in the course of conversation, the motive for this itinerary was sought.
The aged leader of the party, great in position and experience, explained through the interpreter that they were seeking knowledge that could be used to make the old China more progressive, and more on a par with the leading nations of the earth. They felt that through an active, living religion China might be rejuvenated, both in civic and social affairs. When the suggestion was made that China surely had a great religion founded upon the teachings of Confucius, the answer from the minister came promptly that Confucius was not a religious leader; he was an ethical teacher, and "ethics can not take the place of a vitally living religion, in the salvation of a great nation." It was explained by these distinguished and learned Chinamen that China had tried to win success from ethics alone, but had failed, from education alone, but had failed, and that the progressive leaders of China were convinced that a correct religion was indispensable in working out a satisfactory future for the Chinese people. When they were again pressed to explain their choice of stopping places in the United States, the head of the party declared that in Washington they had paid their official respects to the Government of the United States, and had conferred with the Chinese representatives, and that in Boston they had made certain observations of great importance. As for Salt Lake City, "Is not Utah, the only state, save Massachusetts, that was founded
198 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
through religious motives? We wanted to see what had been done in this State, so founded, in the hope that some of the principles so successful here, might be incorporated into the new religion of China." There was little need of further questioning. When the party reached the Temple square, and the Sea-gull monument met the gaze, the young interpreter explained that the Chinese were very familiar with the story of the sea gulls. Some of their early travelers had heard the story, and found it so delightful that they had carried the story home, and it was in every Chinese boy's school book. In connection with this story, our General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, relates an incident which is interesting. She says that during the years when she taught in the public schools, in 1897, the story of the sea-gulls was published in pamphlet form and distributed to the children by Miss Horton, who was very public-spirited and anxious for the children to have the traditions of their own state. It may be that one of these copies fell into the hands of a Chinese visitor, although the Chinese Prince spoke as if they long ago had the story of the sea-gulls. Latter-day Saints realize that there are but few nations left, now that China has opened her doors, in which the gospel must be preached, before the end shall come; perhaps only Russia, Egypt, and the Congo regions of dark Africa. How glorious are the prospects for the Latter-day Saint who lives his religion and observes the signs of the times.
JAPANESE MISSION.
In this connection, it is most interesting to know that the Japanese mission, which was opened just twenty years ago, by our present prophet, seer, and revelator, Heber J. Grant, has been maintained in that kingdom from that day to this, with measurable success. The readers of The Magazine will be interested to read some hitherto unpublished items concerning the dedication of the Land of Japan, by President Grant and his companions. President Grant, and elders Alma O. Taylor, Horace Ensign and Louis Kelsch, left Utah, July 24, 1901. They arrived in Yokohama, Japan, August 12, 1901. Going out to secure rooms, they found to their surprise a great prejudice had been worked up concerning them through the English-Japanese press and the efforts of ministers and missionaries there. It was difficult indeed to find rooms. They visited the widow of the famous actor, George Pauncefort, and were cordially received; and finally were located in a small lodging-house on the bluff surrounding the city. The Tokio papers were cordially opened to President Grant, and some remarkable articles appeared there, over his sig-
OPENING OF THE CHINESE REALM. 199
nature. His memorial greeting, which he addressed to the people of Japan, is full of the spirit of the Lord, and of the mission which he was sent to accomplish. On the first of September, 1901, the Land of Japan was dedicated by President Heber J. Grant, and the following description of that glorious event is taken from journals of the clerk of that mission, Elder Alma O. Taylor. Brother Taylor thus eloquently describes the evening of the day before the dedicatory services: After supper we sat out in the garden together, talking over the future and the problems which it presented. It was a beautiful moonlight evening, and there came a gentle breeze from off the ocean that filled the air with freshness most delightful, as we looked from our elevated position out over the city. Below we could see thousands of flickering lights which burned as if in rivalry to the starry brightness of the sky. Among the quivering branches of the trees the "katy-dids" were singing with buzzing harmony their evening songs, and upon our ears there fell the occasional cry of a blind beggar as he wandered through the streets below in search of alms. In the distance there arose the assuring sound of the night watchman's signal, which, as he came nearer, grew louder and louder, then died away again as he passed along his beat. As we sat there drinking in the beauty of the surroundings, our hearts were filled with tranquility. Our minds wandered back to the scenes of the past; and our hopes hastened on to view the events of the future. We thought of home, with its familiar faces, its joys, its sorrows, and all its endearing features, but as the longing to be back again amid those scenes crept over us, the path of duty appeared before our eyes. And as we looked along its course, beholding in the distance the glorious future to which it led, the pleasures, joys, and brightness of all that we had left behind, faded from before the contemplation of that coming day when our hearts would be made glad in the salvation of the souls of men. Indeed, the happiness of the past became as the darkness of night which flees from the light and glory of the day. We went to our rooms and poured out our souls to God, expressing the thanks which we felt for his blessings and mercy. To the sweet strain of music, which came from a neighboring house, we dropped off to sleep. And in slumber bade farewell to the month of August, and welcomed the dawn of September's morn. (From August 31, Alma O. Taylor's Journal.)
Outline for a prayer meeting held in the woods near Yokohama, Sunday, September 1, 1901, by Apostle Heber J. Grant and his companion missionaries, Elders Louis A. Kelsch, Horace S. Ensign and Alma O. Taylor. Taken from the journal of Elder Alma O. Taylor: This being fast day we ate no breakfast, but went out into the woods about eleven o'clock to hold a prayer meeting. After about a twenty minutes' walk from our rooms, we came to a secluded spot in a small grove situated on the South slope of one of the rolling hills lying to the south of Yokohama, and about
200 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Mid-way between the foreign residences on the Bluff and the bay. Sitting down in a circle on the ground, we opened our meeting by singing, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." Brother Grant offered the opening prayer which was followed with another prayer by Brother Kelsch. Sang, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation," after which Brother Ensign continued in prayer, and without changing from our kneeling position our supplication was continued, myself being mouth. The principal features of our prayers were expressions of thanksgiving and praise to God; invocations for strength to perform the duties that rested upon us as missionaries in this land; and also that the Spirit of God would rest upon Apostle Grant to the extent that he would be able to offer up an acceptable dedicatory prayer: for the main object of our going into the woods was to dedicate this land unto the Lord for the proclamation of the gospel. After the four prayers had been offered up, we sang, "Come, come, ye Saints." We again knelt in a circle, and Brother Grant offered up the dedicatory prayer. His tongue was loosed and the Spirit rested mightily upon him; so much so that we felt the angels of God were near, for our hearts burned within us as the words fell from his lips. I never experienced such a peaceful influence or heard such a powerful prayer before. Every word penetrated into my very bones, and I could have wept for joy. The following is an outline of the prayer, as I remember it: (a) An appeal unto the Lord to hear the words that would be uttered, (b) An expression of thanks for the preservation of our lives; for the testimony of the gospel which we had in our hearts; and for the great blessing of being considered worthy, in the eyes of the Prophet of the Lord, to go as messengers of life and salvation unto a people who had never heard the gospel. (c) An entreaty for the forgiveness of our sins. (d) Dedication of the land for the proclamation of the truth, and for the bringing to pass of the purposes of the Lord concerning the gathering of Israel and the establishment of righteousness upon the earth. (e) By the power of the Priesthood and in the name of Jesus, Satan was commanded to release his hold upon the minds of the people, and rebuked in his efforts to overcome the work of the Lord in this land. (f) Words of praise unto God for preserving the people of Japan from the power of the Great and Abominable Church, and that he had blessed the Japanese with sufficient knowledge to see the shallowness of the man-made Christianity which was sought to be introduced among them.
OPENING OF THE CHINESE REALM. 201
(g) Petitioned the Lord to touch the hearts of the people, that they might know that we were men of virtue, honor, and devotion, and that we had come among them to do them good; that their minds might be directed into channels of religious thought, and their hearts prepared to recognize the truth when it was declared unto them, being even as sheep, quick to recognize the voice of the shepherd. (h) Thanks for the talents with which we had been blessed and a dedication of them to the work of the Lord. (i) A request that we be endowed with every qualification needed in opening up this mission. (j) A prayer for the Church and the Priesthood. (k) A personal mention of the goodness of the Lord in preserving the life of Apostle Grant during the severe attack of sickness which he had been called upon to pass through some years ago; when he was given up to die by nearly all his friends. He felt that the Lord had restored him to come upon this mission. (l) Thanks for the companions which he had. For the integrity of Brother Kelsch, who had been in the mission field for the past ten years, but was willing to come to this land and continue his labors for the salvation of souls; for the ready heart of Brother Ensign in responding cheerfully to the call to go out and preach the gospel, in spite of the fact that he had but lately returned from a mission to Colorado; and for his youthful companion, "even Alma," who in spite of his youth had been favored of the Lord with much intelligence and knowledge, and a love for the truth which caused him to accept joyfully the call to come to this land and devote himself to the spread of truth. He asked his heavenly Father to continue in blessing me with further knowledge and power to use the same in righteousness, that I might become as Alma of old, full of the Spirit, and powerful in the Word of God. (m) Words of gratitude for the love that we had for each other and the unity which existed among us. (n) A request that the Three Nephites would visit us and assist us in our work. (o) Spoke of the righteousness of Lehi and of the great faith of Nephi in doing whatsoever the Lord commanded him. Also spoke of those, who, because of iniquity, had been cut off from among the Nephites and cursed with a dark skin, like unto the Lamanites, the blood of Lehi and Nephi had been transmitted unto the people of this land, many of whom have the features and manners of the American Indians. Asked the Lord that if this were true, that he would not forget the integrity of his servants Lehi and Nephi, and would verify the promises made unto them
GROUP OF JAPANESE MISSION 1, President Heber J. Grant; 2, Horace Ensign; 3, Alma O. Taylor; 4, Erastus L. Jarvis; 5, John W. Slater; 6, Fred. A. Caine; 7, Sanford W. Hedges; 8, Joseph F. Featherstone; 9, Augusta W. Grant; 10, Maimie W. Ensign; 11, Mrs. Jos. F. Featherstone; 12, Mary Grant (Judd).
EUROPEAN AND NEAR-EAST RELIEF FUND. — 203
concerning their descendants in the last days, upon this people, for we felt that they were a worthy nation. After this dedicatory prayer had been offered up, we sang, "The time is far spent." Following this, Brother Grant read the prayer offered by Apostle Orson Hyde, when upon the Mt. Of Olives, dedicating the land of Palestine for the gathering and future home of the Jews. Brothers Grant, Kelsch, Ensign, and myself, spoke in the order named; expressing the feelings of our hearts, and telling of our love for each other and our earnest desires and determination to labor with all the zeal which we possessed for the success of the work of the Lord in this land. We then sang, "O my Father." Before dismissing we considered the advisability of separating into twos and going into the interior of the country. We all seemed favorable to this movement. Closing song, "God moves in a mysterious way." Benediction was offered by Brother Ensign. It is noticeable that the consecration of both lands took place under the branches of a tree, as will be seen from our illustrations. President Grant performed a wonderful labor in the Japanese kingdom. He not only had charge of the introduction of the gospel itself, but established a Sunday school, a Mutual Improvement Association, and has lived to see the "Book of Mormon' translated into Japanese, through the labors of his gifted young associates, Elders Alma O. Taylor and Frederic M. Cain.
EUROPEAN AND NEAR-EAST RELIEF FUND.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is composed of as whole hearted and generous a people as, perhaps, ever lived upon this earth. When a call comes from the President of the Church to build a temple, or, for contributions in the name of sweet charity, the response is immediate and worth while, so that the wonderful showing made by the recent donations for the European and Near-East Relief Funds are not surprising to us, though they may be to those who know not of us. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, was appointed chairman of the European Relief Fund for this state by Herbert Hoover and she carried forward her work to successful conclusion, with the aid of her excellent committee and her brilliant young executive secretary, Mrs. Margaret C. Pickering. Mrs. Cannon was the only woman state chairman for this fund, and the "Mormon" people were the most liberal as a Church, both of which facts are commendable and unusual in the eyes of the world.
204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Utah raised a total of $89,135.55 for the benefit of the European Relief Fund. This amount exceeded Utah's quota. The campaign expenses were $1,561.15, for salaries, printing, postage, etc. The Near-East Relief Fund was directed by Ex-Governor John C. Cutler, and was gathered for the starving children of Armenia and nearby provinces. While the European Fund was collected under Mrs. Cannon and is intended for the suffering peoples of Europe proper, Austria, Hungary, Poland, etc. The special fast day called by the first presidency, is mentioned by Mrs. Cannon as a great factor in the success of the movement. The Church gathered altogether the generous sum of $109,834.42 which was collected entirely by the bishops free of any cost whatever, under the direction of the Presiding Bishop's office and was variously divided amongst our own European poor and the European and Near-East Relief Funds, as is shown later. The Primary Association did a remarkable work in collecting from the little children, $4,200, while the Red Cross chapters and other public interests did some good work along these lines. Mr. Hoover who has charge of the European Relief Fund sent a telegram to President Heber J. Grant of appreciation of the work done by our people. The amount of $109,834.42 which was collected by the Church was distributed as follows: $5,516.21, which was collected in Canada, Mexico and in the Missions, was sent to President George Albert Smith, to be used for the poor and distressed Latter-day Saints in the European missions. $30,000 was given directly to the Near-East Relief Fund through the Treasurer, John C. Cutler. $6,000 was sent to the Latter-day Saint poor in Armenia, The Utah European fund received also the miscellaneous collections aggregating $4,830.02, making that fund, $81,886.44, out of which there was $36,000 deducted leaving a balance of $45,886.44. The donations from Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Wyoming, were sent to the General European Relief Fund, for credit on account of each state, which amounted to $22,431.77; totalling $109,834.42 gathered and disbursed by the Church through the agencies named above. Mrs. Cannon is to be congratulated on her own successful association with this great charitable outpouring; while President Heber J. Grant, the bishops, and the people generally, may rest happy in the knowledge of a good work, well and swiftly accomplished.
Sarah Uses Tact Bessie Van Wagenen
During the first year of their married life, John and Sarah Moore had planned and built the "Dovecote," their future home. A beautiful, low-rambling, white house, shining like a jewel in its setting of trees and beautiful shrubs and flowers with wide lawns extending from all sides of the house. This was to be their home for life, John had declared, and, as they planned every detail from the greatest to the least, they looked forward to the time when sturdy sons and beautiful daughters would fill their home and builded accordingly. After fifteen years John began to wonder if fate had made a joke of him, with Sarah and the "Dovecote" included. Not one babe had come to gladden their home. Everyone in the neighborhood knew Sarah's love for babies, and therefore Sarah it was who was always called upon to help the Old Bishop Dan usher many new little lives into the world, and the grateful mothers would tell each other what a splendid hand Sarah was with babies for never having one of her own to practice on. Not one of them knew what aching longing, gripped Sarah's heart, after she washed and dressed each tiny body and placed it in the proud mother's arms! Not one guessed what grief possessed her, as the tiny rose-bud lip nestled to the mother's breast. No one but the dear God saw the heart-rending tears shed in the privacy of her own room. I said no one, but there was one who was beginning to suspect Sarah's secret and that was Old Bishop Dan, as the villagers lovingly called him. He happened to notice Sarah's face as she was bending over the lusty Jones baby, the newest arrival in the village. It was a revelation of all the hopeless longing that filled her soul.. Sarah glanced up and caught the Bishop's questioning look and for the first time in fifteen years gave expression to her bitterness. "It just isn't fair, Bishop,' she burst out, babies should be divided more equally. Now here, for instance, is the eighth baby for the Jones' family and they can support about half that number and feed and clothe them right. Look at the thousands of children in the world today, dying for want of care, and I am denied even one child! Do you call that fair?" Bishop Dan placed his hand gently on Sarah's arm, "That's just it, Sarah," he said gently, "that's just the point. There are
206. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Hundreds of babies within a day's ride from here that need mothers. Now, why don't you and John adopt one. You could easily support and care for a dozen children. Why not at least give one a chance." "I have thought of that very often,' Sarah answered quickly, "but there is John to consider. I have suggested adopting a little one, have pleaded with him, in fact, but he gives always the same answer, 'If the Lord sees fit to deny me fatherhood, I will not father someone else's child." It always makes him so cranky and cross I have stopped urging him." The Bishop's eyes sharpened. He dearly loved an argument, and he had been a dear friend of John's for years. "Answer me this, Sarah, why does John Moore keep every stray dog and cat that's dropped at his gate? Why does he take every tramp in and feed him? You don't need to answer me, I know something about human nature, and I know some few things about John Moore. It's because his heart is too tender to kill the animals, and too full of love for his fellow men to turn one adrift with an empty stomach. No; don't tell me that John Moore would turn away a helpless child. No sir-ee; he might not go hunting for a stray baby, but I'll bet a penny to a doughnut he wouldn't turn one away if he found one on his door step. A little tact, Sarah, bridges many a difficulty." Sarah gasped. This had been her secret longing for years. Next best to having a babe of her own, would be to have one placed on her door step.. She spoke hopefully, breathlessly, "Do you think, Bishop, such a thing could be brought about? O! It would make me the happiest woman in the world." "Why not? I am sometimes asked to find homes for motherless babes. Now, why not some night bring one out to you folks?" The Bishop was pressing the point, and Sarah's denied motherhood was asserting itself. She and old Bishop Dan were soon in a deep conspiracy against one John Moore. It was a blustery March evening; Sarah had gone to her mother's for a couple of hours, and John sat reading before the cozy fire. A low wail interrupted his reading. John listened. It came again, clearer, this time, between lulls of the wind. "Another cat. It's getting to be an imposition the way people drop their cats here. This makes about twelve." John was grumbling to himself. "It can stay out there and be darned; not another cat comes on this place." The wail increased steadily in volume until John could stand it no longer. "I'll let the thing in for tonight and pack it off again in the morning," he thought.,
SARAH USES TACT. 207
He arose and opened the door. There on the step was a dry goods box covered with an old shawl. "Huh, a whole family of cats by special delivery," he snorted. It was no family of cats that greeted John's gaze as he drew back the shawl, but a very pink, very bright-eyed baby. The bright light started the babe to crying again. John began carefully to extract it from the box, holding his breath, meanwhile, for fear of dropping the little one. The baby cried louder and still louder, and John held it tighter and tighter. As it continued to cry, John began to walk about the room. The faster he walked the louder baby cried, until poor John was nearly frantic. He tried clucking, whistling, singing and snapping his fingers, but the cries became shrieks. John had thought wildly of deserting the house, baby and everything, when his eyes happened to light on the family Medical Adviser, old Dr. Gunn's book. Somehow, he managed to balance the baby in one arm while he turned the leaves frantically back and forth in search of symptoms. He was certain, by this time, that the baby was dying by inches. Finally he came to the words "feed modified cows milk." Of course, why in the world hadn't he thought of that! Any lunatic would know a baby needed milk, he grumbled to himself. Still balancing the now sobbing baby in one arm, he gingerly went to Sarah's shiny pantry, dipped into a pan of milk, got safely back to the stove without dropping the baby or spilling the milk. When the milk was nicely warmed, weakened with hot water and sweetened a trifle, he began to feed the baby, who after the first few spoonfuls began to manifest its satisfaction by a series of grunts, gurgles and wiggles. Finally, after an hour's hard work on the part of John, baby graciously permitted John to sit down; and there Sarah found the two when she came in later, John in the big rocker, and baby nestled in his arms, one tiny hand gripping the man's big finger. "Sh! Sh!" he warned, as she opened the door, "For heaven's sake, woman, can't you see we've got a baby? And I've walked the floor for two solid hours with it," he added accusingly. "A baby!" Sarah demonstrated her histrionic ability as she acted her complete surprise during John's recital of the events of the evening. "Well, it's too late to do anything tonight, but in the morning we can call up the police and send it to the Orphan's Home," said John. Sarah's heart was beating fast as she watched John's face
208 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
And she replied, "We don't want a baby. We could never care for one." John's face looked like a thunder cloud. "Sarah Moore," he burst forth, "I am ashamed that a wife of mine hasn't more charity in her heart for God's children. Keep this child? I guess we will. You can just make up your mind to that." "Sarah looked very humble. "Of course, dear, if you say so,' she answered meekly. "I'd love to, myself, but we know so little about babies." "I know a lot and can learn more," boasted John Moore. "If we have good luck raising this one we'll adopt some more. Er-er-Sarah, do you suppose it's a girl?" Sarah gravely nodded. "Because I would like her called Eudora, I just read tonight that Eudora means a gift from God." A few days later, Sarah Moore met the Bishop. They shook hands gravely, though their eyes smiled. "A little tact, Sarah." Bishop Dan informed her gravely, "a little tact does wonderful things." The Moores have three adopted babies now, and the end is not yet in sight.
There are Times By Helen Kimball Orgill.
There are times, with weary spirit, Fain I'd cleave into the sky, Spanning all the hours of waiting, Pass the long years rolling by.
I would hasten to the haven Where my Maker reigns supreme, Where the fair, elysian flowers Beautify both field and stream.
How I thrill to think of meeting, In this land where I have soared, My kind, heavenly Sire, my Father— Whom my spirit e'er adored.
And the images of loved ones Who have left me long ago, Shine upon my mental vision With a bright, celestial glow.
But, ah me! I must press onward, And by faith walk day by day, 'Till I'm welcomed by my Savior To that home across the way.
"From Zion to Jerusalem"
So many things are happening in the interesting country, Palestine, that it is difficult to keep pace with the rushing news from there. From the mass of information, we glean the following items: The mandatory assumes the responsibility of seeing that no Palestine territory shall be ceded, leased or otherwise subjected to any foreign power; that Jewish immigration shall be facilitated; that the civil and religious rights of all the inhabitants, irrespective of race or religion, shall be safeguarded, and that there be no discrimination against the nationals of any states, members of the league of nations. Responsibility for taxation, commerce and navigation is vested in the mandatory. It is also provided that a land system be introduced to promote close settlement of the land and its intensive cultivation. All responsibility in connection with the holy places, religious buildings and their sites are assumed by Great Britain. English, Hebrew and Arabic are to be the official languages of the country. The Palestine administration, it is provided, may organize on a voluntary basis the necessary forces for the preservation of the peace and order and defense of the country, subject to the supervision of the mandatory. An appropriate Jewish agency, it is stipulated, shall be recognized as a public body, advisory to and cooperative with the administration in economic, social and other matters, and the Zionist organization, as it is now constituted, is so recognized. The mandatory is to adhere to the existing conventions regarding the traffic in slaves, ammunition and drugs, and as to commercial equality and freedom of transit and communication. Disputes under the mandate provisions not settled by negotiations, are to be submitted to the permanent court of international justice established by the league of nations. Great Britain is to make an annual report to the league of nations council on the measures taken during the year. New York, Feb. 20——A committee of twenty-five leading Jewish business men, representing diverse industries in the United States, will make a six weeks' tour of Poland, Austria and other war-devastated areas this summer. Louis Marshall,
210 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Chairman of the American Jewish relief committee, announced here today, The tour, approved by the committee, will be "for the purpose of formulating a sound program which will result in permanent benefit to the Jewish population of the sections visited," Mr. Marshall added. Each member of the commission will place himself at the disposal of the government in the stricken district. Plans to raise $14,000,000 in the United States this year to carry on reconstruction and emergency relief among Jewish war sufferers have been adopted by the committee. Sir Herbert Samuel announced that the Palestine Administration has abolished the tobacco monopoly which has been maintained in Palestine for many years, says a Jerusalem dispatch. The tobacco industry was monopolized by a French concern on the basis of certain special privileges granted by the Turkish Government many years ago. The orange and lemon yield in Jericho is nearly double that of last year, says a Palestine dispatch. About one quarter of the land at Jericho is already under plow, and the local water canals have been repaired and cleaned. Jewish labor is replacing the Arab labor which was almost exclusively used in Lower Galilee. The colonists of Yavniel and Milhamia are using Jews, and the colony of Mesha entrusted the watch to Jewish watchmen. Everyone in Palestine has been advised to take a daily dose of quinine to ward off a malaria epidemic. The municipality of Jerusalem has decided to float a loan of £30,000 to provide the city with an adequate electric lighting system. There is talk of building a garden city outside of Jerusalem at Talpioth, a hillside at some distance from the Jaffa gate. Telephones have been installed in most of the business houses and public institutions in Haifa, and installations are being made in a number of places in Jaffa.
Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
RELIEF SOCIETY DISTRICT TEACHING
Morgan Stake
At the union meeting held in December, the following instructions were given to the Relief Society teachers, by the stake officers: Successful teaching is one of the most important matters that can claim the attention of Relief Society teachers. As a rule, the societies that have the live, wide-awake, intelligent teachers are in the front ranks in their activities. Sacrament meetings as well as Relief Society meetings are better attended, and there is a good feeling among the members. Teaching well done is worth while and is its own reward. Don't put off until tomorrow the teaching that should be done today. Don't talk about the weather or gossip about the neighbors. Don't try to teach without the Spirit of the Lord to guide you. Don't talk about sacred things, or those holding positions of trust in the Church, in a manner that will create doubt and skepticism in the minds of the people. The gospel will shed bright rays of light and hope on every circumstance and situation in life. Always seek divine assistance in the performance of duty. The topic assigned for Relief Society teachers for January and February was "Prayer." (It is natural to pray; the inclination to do so is born in all men.) 1. Family prayers; 2. Secret prayers; 3. Set forms of prayer finally become empty sentences and should be avoided; 4. In prayer, ask for the things really needed; e. G., Lord's prayer.
South Davis Stake
At the meeting of the stake and local officers' meeting held in January, the work of the Relief Society teacher was featured, and the problems of Relief Society teachers discussed as follows: 1. The call of the Relief Society teachers and what it means. 2, What is the usual preparation of the Relief Society teacher? 3. What influence does the Relief Society teacher carry into the home? 4. After our visit, do we as Relief Society teachers feel satisfied with our efforts? 5. If a Relief Society teacher is not satisfied with her efforts, where is the fault? 6. If a Relief Society teacher's efforts are not satisfactory, how may the difficulty be overcome? 7. How shall we estimate the labors of the Relief Society teachers? The fol-
212 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
lowing outline for the year, in printed form, was given to each of the Relief Society teachers in the stake: Responsibilities of teachers: A worth-while message, given in the spirit of prayer and love for every home. February—Patience. 1st Romans, 15:1-8, Discuss a problem wherein patience has been glorified. March—Obedience. Gospel Doctrine, pages 129, 263, 272, by Joseph F. Smith. April—Prayer. Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, uttered or unexpressed; S. S. Song Book. How to pray; Gospel Doctrine, pp. 375-281. May—Faith. James 5:14-15; Doc. And Cov. June—Word of Wisdom. Doc. And Cov. 89. Vitality of Mormonism, page 214. Gospel Doctrine, p. 300. September—Charity. Gospel Doctrine, p. 294; 1 Cor. 13. "Among the pitfalls in our way, the best of us walk blindly, so let's beware, watch and pray, and judge each other kindly." October— Duty. Duties to man. Doc. And Cov. Sec. 68:25 to end of chapter. Gospel Doctrine, page 187. November—Our Children. Gospel Doctrine, pages 353, 365, 371, 369, 366 and 355. December—Gratitude. That man may last, but never lives, who much receives, but never gives; whom none can love, whom none can thank, creation's blot, creation's blank. Gospel Doctrine, pages 328 to 330. Read, The Lord is my Light. S. S. Song Book, page 121.
Fremont Stake
A letter has just been received from the secretary of the Fremont stake, giving the following very interesting account of a little play given at a recent union meeting held in this stake: "We are making a special effort to make the work of our Relief Society teachers more efficient, and in order to show them more effectively the proper way to do real teaching, we presented a little play showing the three types of teachers. The first set of teachers who came in showed the gossips, who have no special subjects to talk about but are ready to talk of anything that happens to present itself to their minds. The lady visited had a boy with a bad case of tonsilitis and she was very much worried over his condition. So the time was chiefly spent in talking about tonsilitis and its bad effects; how dangerous it is in a great many cases to have the tonsils removed. These teachers did, however, invite the mother to Relief Society meetings, and told her about the lessons and teachers. Then they gave a full explanation of the teachers book and its uses. This set was followed by the indifferent type who come unprepared to do or give anything. They knew nothing about the Relief Society meetings, because they seldom attend. They subscribed for the Magazine, but had not time to read it, and could not therefore tell what the lessons would be during the month. In fact, they
NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 213
just made a little call so that they could hand in their report, as their president had called for a 100 per cent teachers' report. The last pair were the Ideal Teachers who came spiritually prepared to teach. They were cheerful and tactful as well as humble. When they were asked anything regarding Relief Society work they were prepared to answer and tell all about the beauties of Relief Society work. They told about the subjects for lesson work, the teachers, the Relief Society Magazine, and the many things it publishes that are helpful to mothers. Then, when the opportune time came, they presented their subject, Faith, and discussed with their hostess the need of faith in God, faith in ourselves, and faith in our fellowmen. They gave the little mother on whom they called something to think about during the coming weeks and had also given her a desire to attend Relief Society meetings and to have the teachers call again."
Annual Membership Dues
Among the early stakes to send in 100 per cent annual membership dues were: Benson stake, Ogden stake, and the new Garfield stake.
Bear River Stake
At the close of last year, the Bear River stake made an excursion to the Logan temple, with 97 Relief Society women. Two hundred eighty women, who could not attend, each contributed fifty cents for temple purposes, which totaled $140.
Nebo Stake.
At the annual Relief Society stake conference, held at the close of the year in Spanish Fork, there were 500 members in attendance. This response on the part of the Relief Society. Women was only equalled by the enthusiasm of the stake officers, who had prepared a spiritual feast for those who came. It is the custom in this stake for the Relief Society workers to visit the County Infirmary frequently. The Christmas visit this year was made the Thursday before Christmas, when an excellent program was given to the inmates of the infirmary and delicious refreshments served. It was hard to tell who enjoyed this visit most, the officers of the Relief Society or those who were the recipients of this thoughtful attention. The Christmas Seal Sale in Nebo stake amounted to $141. The success of the sale was due largely to the energetic work of Mrs. Julia Hancock, a member of the stake board who acted as chairman.
European Mission
At the annual celebration of the organization of the Relief Society, held in Dresden last December, there were 500 women
214 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Present. Two hundred of these are members of the organization, and the rest were visitors and investigators.
Northern States Mission
In a letter from Miss Bertha Thurgood, a missionary, we learn of the great interest which is taken by the missionary girls in the Relief Society work in the mission, where they are not only called upon to teach and instruct, but where they are often asked to preside over the Relief Society branches. Miss Thurgood says that the beautiful Christmas entertainment given at the Mission House, in Chicago, by President and Mrs. Winslow Smith for the missionary boys and girls was one of the real joys of the winter. Forty missionaries were gathered at the home where the real Christmas spirit of love and good will permeated the whole gathering.
Union Stake
Since the Union stake conference, which was held in September, the stake board members have visited all of the wards in the stake except one, holding conferences and giving instructions in the various phases of Relief Society work. As a result of this work, the wards report an increase in interest and attendance and have expressed the wish that branch conferences might be held every three months. Stake board meetings are held weekly, when business matters and policies of the organization are discussed. Japanese Mission In a letter from President Joseph H. Stimpson we learn that there are no Relief Society organizations as yet in the Japanese mission. They have one organization, however, taken care of by the native members, which they call the Mutual Improvement Association, and while it does not follow the work as outlined by that organization at home, it takes in all of the members of the Church, old and young. Star Valley Stake Although the wards in this stake are widely scattered, a stake and local officers' meeting, or union meeting, is held regularly each month in connection with the stake priesthood meeting. Some of the ward officers live a distance of twenty-seven miles from Afton, where these meetings are held, and in the winter, when the snow is always deep and the weather very disagreeable, Relief Society officers face many hardships in order to attend, and yet the attendance is nearly as good in winter as it is in summer. Although this stake is isolated, being fifty NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 215 miles off the railroad, still the Relief Society women feel that they are up to date in their work and they rejoice in the fact that all of the members are loyal to the Relief Society cause and are enthusiastic in their efforts. At the last union meeting the Relief Society stake board served luncheon to one hundred thirty ward officers with a few members of the priesthood. A very pleasant hour was thus spent socially. The stake board meetings are held monthly, the Wednesday prior to the union meeting, when stake problems are discussed and preparation made for the stake and local officers' meeting. Eastern States Mission: In 1920 a number of reorganizations took place in the branches of the Eastern States mission. At these reorganizations, Relief Society presidents were appointed as follows: Scranton, Pennsylvania, president, Afton Allred; Brooklyn, New York, president, Sarah A. McCune; New Haven, Connecticut, president, Rhey Sulham; Philadelphia, Pa., president, Carry Obendorfer; New Bedford, Mass., president, Hilda Roberts; Fairmont, W. Va., president, May Sloter; New York, N. Y., president, Stella Paul Bradford; Huntington, W. Va., president, Arena Ferrel; Scranton, Pa., president, Mary Montgomery. On the 22nd of September a Relief Society was organized in Fairview, with Mrs. Mollie Stoops as president. Sevier Stake: On Sunday, January 30, in a general priesthood meeting held in Richfield, Sevier stake was divided into three stakes as follows: Sevier, comprising Richfield, Glenwood, Venice, Burrville and Koosharem; South Sevier, comprising Monroe, Annabella, Inverury, Elsinore, Joseph, Sevier, and Marysvale; North Sevier, comprising Sigurd, Vermillion, Aurora, Salina and Redmond. At a special conference held in Salina, on the afternoon of January 30, Mrs. Minnis S. Dastrup was sustained as Relief Society president of North Sevier stake, with Elizabeth Thalman, first counselor, and Lydia Z. Cowley, stake secretary, second counselor to be selected later. At a special conference, held in Monroe on the afternoon of January 30, Mrs. Matilda B. Ross, of joseph, was sustained as Relief Society president of the South Sevier stake, with Laura Murray, first counselor, and Matilda B. Parker, second counselor. Mrs. Lily B. Gledhill was retained as president of the Sevier stake. Notes Mrs. Lydia Harris White, of Beaver, is another of our lovely aged women, who knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, and 216 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, who tells wonderful and interesting stories, concerning the old days in Nauvoo. She is hale and hearty, at her home in Beaver, and we congratulate her. The gospel makes for longevity and happy living, from all accounts. Bishop William Wood of the Twenty-fourth Ward, has a mother now in the hospital to mend a dislocated hip, which resulted from a recent fall. She is ninety-six years old; still active and bright, and has been in the Church over one half of a century. Juarez Stake 'Through an oversight, in the January Magazine, there was a statement that stake conferences and conventions had been held in all stakes during 1920, except Juarez. The fact of the matter is that both a stake conference and a very successful stake leadership institute were held in Juarez stake. The idea intended to be conveyed in the note was that the General Board members had visited all the stakes except Juarez. This department offers apology for this oversight. THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS Vera Lee Kearl The Rocky mountains grey and old With canyon, cliff, and valley, And towering peaks rugged and bold Hidden by snows that dally; The flowering shrub, the spicy pine And nook for happy lovers; The frothing streams, a joyful find Of rainbow trout and flowers; The talking brooks, the rustling trees, And dancing perfumed flowers— Fling joy and laughter in the breeze From nooks and crooks and bowers. The cloudless blue of Heaven's dome O'er all God's work is shining, From snow-clad peak to cabin home There is not one a-pining. Out of the World By G. Milton Babcock (Continued ) The wheel was duly secured, the first payment taking his ten-dollar bank balance, and early Saturday morning Walter started. Quickly he crossed the bridge to Green Island, and following along by the old "Gully" where, in the summer, he used to catch '"bull-heads," and where, in the winter, he used to skate and make torches of the "cat-tails" that grew along the shore, he soon reached the second branch of the Mohawk which flows into the Hudson at Van Schaick's Island. He followed generally the course of the old River Road which, in Revolutionary times, connected Albany with Saratoga, and on which General Burgoyne proposed to march to Albany. Next came Cohoes—as famous for its knitting mills as Troy for its collars. In Waterford, a mile further, Walter stopped for a few minutes to watch the operations in connection with the construction of the new Barge Canal, an undertaking rivaling the Panama Canal. A few miles beyond Waterford—the farthest point to which Hudson penetrated in the Half Moon—overlooking the placid river, stood an old landmark dear to the memory of Walter's family—the "Red-White and Blue House'—built by Benjamin Gates, one of the earliest settlers. As the Gates family had intermarried with the Nelsons, a custom had sprung up of having family reunions each year. As a little chap, Walter had attended the gatherings with his mother, and later with his aunt and uncle.. So many of the old folks had gone, however, that no reunions had been held for several years. Walter had not visited the place since the last reunion, and, feeling somewhat tired and thirsty, he dismounted and walked reverently up the weed-grown path. How everything had changed! An electric line had cut off part of the front yard, so that the approach to the house was not as spacious and attractive as in former years. However, Walter recognized the same rosebushes and peonies as of yore—though some were wild-grown—but it was with difficulty that he traced the old paths about the garden plots. Many a youthful foot had stumbled across the cobblestone barriers that enclosed the gardens while playing the ancient and honorable game of tag. In answer to his knock, a lady, in her early thirties, appeared: 218 RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE. "Why, hello, Walter; glad to see you. My, how you've grown! Sit down here and rest yourself." "Thanks; I am taking a long ride on my wheel, and when I came up, I couldn't resist stopping to see you. How are all your folks." "All are well, although mother is so lonesome since father died. She is living in Waterford, you know, and we can hardly get her out here to see us as it makes her so sad." "Guess I'll go outside and look around a bit," said Walter a few minutes later. "Is the old spring still running?" "To be sure, Walter. While you are looking about I'll get you a bite to eat," she said graciously. The surroundings, except in front of the house, had changed but little. The same fruit and shade trees; the same grape vines which yielded their luscious fruit at reunion time; the same outbuildings. To be sure, the old swing was gone; and no longer did the doves coo from the gables as the children playing below "counted out" with, "one flew east, and one flew west, and one flew over the cuckoo's nest." Walter noticed that the paint on the house had become worn and faded and now bore but slight resemblance to the national colors which had given the house its name. The old rustic bench was still doing service under the spreading elm, and after quaffing the clear, sparkling water from the spring—not the grown-up way, from a cup; but Kidland's old way of lying flat on the belly and meeting your reflection in the tinkling fountain—Walter sat down to muse. A sacred bench it had been in the old days; many the troth that had been plighted here—perhaps the elm would tell! His parents and grandparents had once trodden this ground— had rested on this same bench. It was here that his father and mother spent their honeymoon, and, no doubt, under this very elm they had whiled away many of the blissful hours of their newly married life. If his father had only lived! Suddenly, it seemed that he could hear the old voices! Ah, - there was "Swanee River!"—or was it, after all, but the sighing of the willows bordering the brook nearby, or the drone of the distant electric car? Once more the plaintive strains of "Old Black Joe" came to him, and in this hallowed spot the voices of his ancestors touched the innermost recesses of his being, lifting him above his conscious self into the splendor of the realms of the past, and inspiring him to purposes larger than his own. Oh, how many had sung this quaint, old-fashioned song on these grounds in the strength and vigor of their youth, only to gather in later years and realize that, indeed, much of the gayety of youth had fled, old friends had departed from this earth to a OUT OF THE WORLD. 219 better land, and old scenes had passed away! Ah! The last song— always sung at the close of the reunion—came hopefully to him from the porch. Almost unconsciously, he joined in the chorus: "Yes, we'll gather at the river, The beautiful, the beautiful river; Gather with the Saints at the river That flows by the throne of God." "Come, Walter," she called, gently, a look of inexpressible sadness in her eyes. As Walter arose, he tried to hide the tears that had welled up in his eyes; but she saw—and understood! Soon Walter resumed his journey. Often, as he pedaled along, he pictured trails of the Horicons, and later of the Mohawk Indians, streaming down the valley and winding upward to the eyes of the wilderness—the mountains. Due to the excellent state road, he made the forty odd miles to Glens Falls in a little over five hours, although it was an upward climb most of the way and he was fast tiring. Now he was in the foothills of the Adirondacks. Crossing the Hudson in the southern part of the city, he turned to the right and made his way toward Sandy Hill, three miles beyond. In response to his inquiries, a neat little cottage was pointed out as belonging to John Nelson. Although it had been some time since Walter had seen him, he recognized the sturdy, middle-aged man hoeing in the garden on one side of the house, as his uncle. "I guess you will remember me?" ventured Walter as his uncle looked up. "To be sure, Walter; I'm glad to see you once more. You came on your wheel?" "Yes, Uncle John, and I'm mighty glad to get here, too, although I have had a fine time along the road. It is certainly a pretty country up this way." | "Come inside," his uncle invited. "Your aunt and the girls will be more than glad to see you, though the girls aren't home from the shop yet."; "Why, how are you?" greeted the housewife cordially. "I never expected to see you up this way. How did you leave Billy and his wife?" Evidently, they had not heard of Walter's leaving home, so he felt that matters might just as well be set right at once: _ "They are all right so far as I know—you know I haven't lived with them for several months now," he answered. "How's that, Walter?" queried his uncle. "Aunt Angie and I couldn't agree, and I thought it best that JT leave home and start out for myself." 220 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "T don't know as f blame you," commented the man thoughtfully, "though, if you care to, I'd like to have you tell me more about it. Come on into the sitting room while mother's getting supper—the girls'll be here before long." "You have a nice place here, Uncle John," observed Walter. "Yes; we've worked hard to get this little home. Now tell me more about yourself, Walter." He listened attentively as Walter told in a clear, straightforward manner the circumstances that had surrounded his life, interrupting with exclamations of surprise and sympathy as Walter depicted the trials and hardships his mother had been forced to endure. "T''ll swan!" he commented when Walter had finished. "I can see that I'm not the only one of the family who has had a hard row to hoe. I don't know whether your Uncle Billy has ever told you much about me; but I was the youngest of the family, Billy being the oldest, then your father and I. Billy always worked in Wilbert's car shops in Green Island, but when the time came for me to start to work, the shops were failing and I couldn't get in, though Billy tried hard to place me. Times were slack in the vicinity, and hearing that the paper mills were booming up this way, I left home and came up here, and here I have been ever since. I am a paper maker, having served a long, hard apprenticeship from the lowest, meanest job in the mill to the highest.'' On they talked—until the girls came home and the housewife called them to supper. VI All too soon the alarm-clock welcomed the daylight, Monday morning, and after partaking of a hasty breakfast, Walter started for home. It was a lovely morning, and Walter pedaled swiftly. When he had traveled about eight miles, he was startled by his rear tire butsting. Close examination revealed that the valve had been pulled from the tire—a most serious accident. "Tire must not have been hard enough," he muttered. Pushing his way into Schuylerville, three miles further, he was hailed by a man who was painting from the top of a ladder. "What's the matter, young man, a puncture?" "Yes," answered Walter, gloomily, "I have torn the valve from my tire." "That's too bad; wait a minute and I'll see if I can help you. OUT OF THE WORLD. 221 "Tell you what you do," advised the man after critically examining the rent; "I have an old valve here which is just the thing to fix the tire. However, they worked for several hours before the rent was repaired. Thanking his benefactor, Walter mounted his wheel and was off. He had gone but a few blocks, however, when the tire went flat again. "Guess I”ll have to 'hoof it,'" he muttered despondently. "Tt take the towpath, as it will be shorter and not so dusty," he decided. How hot it was! Not a breath stirred. Towering, silvery white clouds in the west presaged a thunder-storm. Walter pitied the poor, patient mules as they tugged steadily on the great cables, moving all too slowly the ponderous canal boats. Upon coming to Bemis Heights, he rested a while, and then decided to take the electric car to Mechanicville. Going into the village grocery, he inquired the fare to Mechanicville. His countenance fell at the reply, "Thirty cents," for he had but twenty-three cents in his pocket. "Mister," he said, addressing the storekeeper, "I left Sandy Hill this morning on my wheel to get to work in a bank in Troy. My tire blew out, and I've been in Schuylerville all morning trying to fix it. I couldn't get it fixed, so started out on foot. I am anxious to get to Mechanicville where I might be able to catch a wagon the rest of the way. I've got only twenty-three cents with me. Will you lend me the other seven cents until I can come this way again?" "To be sure I will, young man. Anyone who starts out to walk that distance deserves help. Here you are, and I hope you make it all right. Have you had anything to eat since morning?" "No, sir." "Well, then, here is a bag of cookies I'll give you." "Thank you, sir, and you may be sure I'll not forget your kindness," said Walter feelingly, as he was really hungry. ° "Ts this the first time you've been in the Heights?" inquired the groceryman. "No, sir; I was here with my parents when I was a year old. We stayed at Sheldon's." "Is that so? Now, I knew the Sheldons well; they were my customers up until a few years ago, when they moved to Schenectady. Now, what might your name be?" "Walter Nelson." "Walter Nelson?" repeated the man in surprise. 'Your father's name was Joe? Why I knew him well, and your mother, too. They both were—" "There's the car now," interrupted Walter. "Goodby, sir: I’ll stop by here again," he assured, as he hurried away. 222 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. With a sigh of relief, he hoisted his wheel onto the rear of the car and seated himself. The car had proceeded about a quarter of a mile when the conductor came along. With perfect assurance, Walter handed him the fare. "That your wheel?" asked the conductor gruffly. "Yes, sir." "Twenty-five cents extra," he demanded. Walter's heart nearly stopped beating. "Mister, I had an accident with my wheel and am a long way from home. Can't you let the bicycle go free?" "What do you think this is, an express car?" snorted the unfeeling trainman. "I haven't any more money, sir." "Then you'll have to get off. Here's your thirty cents." It was a discouraged boy who made his way back to the Champlain Canal towpath. At first, he thought of returning to Bemis Heights, as the kind-hearted groceryman would, no doubt, loan him enough money to go all the way home by train. Again, he was tempted to try another electric car with the hope that the next conductor would let him through. However, he finally decided to walk the eighteen miles to Mechanicville. The blazing western sun was beginning to relent as Walter came up to the Delaware & Hudson Railroad station at Mechanicville. The threatened thundershower had not materialized, for which he was grateful, although the heat had taken a heavy toll of his strength. The fare to Cohoes was twenty-nine cents, and he could check his wheel on the ticket. The train was due in a few miutes, and when it rushed into sight and slid to a stop, it was a tired young man who settled back into the grateful comfort of the plush cushions, The day was done when, crunching, jerking, and whistling, the train rolled into the Cohoes station. The lamps were lighted and the streets were wet from the shower that had come and gone. It was only three miles to Troy, and after a much cooler and pleasanter walk, despite his weariness, than he had experienced during the day, Walter arrived at his little room. He found the landlady much alarmed at his not appearing sooner. When he told her his experience of the day, and she realized that he had no money to buy supper, she invited him to sit at her table— an invitation which Walter most thankfully accepted. The next morning Walter reported promptly at the bank. The cashier sent for him immediately. "Mr. Nelson, you were not here yesterday, and as we didn't have any word from you, we concluded that you had left us, so we hired a man in your place." (To be continued.) World Happenings James H. Anderson The Russian soviet government made heavy gains into Central Asia during February. Anti-cigarette laws were passed in February by Utah, Idaho, and four other states. Panama and Costa Rica had a one-day war in February, then settled down to arbitration. Oil fields were extensively located in Utah in February, and heavy expenditures will be made in well-drilling. A woman speaker of a legislative body, Mary Ellen Smith, is the record of the British Columbia legislature in 1921. The late Grand Duchess Elizabeth of Russia and her maid were taken to Jerusalem and buried there in February. Ireland saw increased turmoil in March, with Great Britain more determined than ever to put down the rebellicn, Two great national Democratic leaders died recently, Henry Watterson, on Feb. 16, and Champ Clark on March 2. Women jurors were impaneled in a London, England, court in January, for the first time in British history. The California abductors of Mrs. Gladys Witherell, who hoped to get a money reward, were given a 10-year-to-life imprisonment sentence. King Nicholas of Montenegro died in France on Feb, 28. The Versailles peace conference merged Montenegro into the Serbian nation. Turkey's resistance to the Serves treaty has caused France and Great Britain, because of self-interest, to recede from their former stern demands. 224 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Great Britain, on Feb. 4, asked the League of Nations council to give that nation entire power in Palestine, on behalf of the Jews. The request is likely to be granted. The Pennsylvania University has sent an expedition to explore and excavate at Beth-shan, one of the oldest Bible cities, thus bringing still farther to the front the favorable public interest in Palestine. The Lever food act was declared unconstitutional by the United States Supreme court on February 28, thus disposing of the prosecutions against Utah sugar companies and officials. Women in England still insist that they should be entitled to degrees in the famous Cambridge university upon qualifying therefor, and doubtless will be winners in the end. Warren G. Harding of Ohio and Calvin Coolidge of Massachusetts were formally elected President and Vice-President, respectively, on February 9, and took office March 4th. German statesmen now claim that they were induced to accept the Versailles treaty by the promise of President Wilson that the United States would extend credit to Germany, which promise is not fulfilled. Railway companies in the United States were forbidden in February, by the government railway labor board, to reduce wages, so they were compelled to lower expenses by the discharge of large numbers of employes. Boston, Mass., preachers are practically a unit in demanding that women wear higher neck ruffles and longer skirts. They assert that in the present styles of dress young women have become mere temptations. The new immigration law passed by Congress admits 354,000 persons from Europe into this country annually, but the percentage as arranged brings most of them from the more objectionable southern Europe nations. The Knights of Columbus, who are a Catholic body of men, noting the trend of anti-Semitism in the United States, and its reaction, have come out against it, stating that persecution of one religious body may justify persecution of any other. WORLD HAPPENINGS. 225 Miriam Rubin, the 8-year-old Waukegan, IIls., girl who talked constantly for 212 hours in February, suddenly ceased the strange phenomenon, and became normal, and physicians attending think she is now cured. Lieut. Wm. D. Corey, aviator, flew across the continent from San Diego, Cal., to Jacksonville, Fla., in February, his time being 22 hours 32 minutes, or more than 98 miles per hour. Giggling girls, busy wives, mothers of small children, and immature women "who rouge and powder but do not think," were barred from jury duty by a New Jersey court, in January. The Jewish colony which sought establishment under the Piute irrigation project in Utah, now asks reimbursement from the State for its lands, to the amount of about $11,000, through legislative enactment. The Far West (Mo.) temple site is included in an 80-acre tract of land purchased by the "Mormon" Church, as are also over 60 lots of the original survey owned by the Saints who were driven from Caldwell county. The Long Beach, Cal., board of education, on the recommendation of a woman professor, Mrs. Anna M. Gilbert, has barred from the high school there girls who persist in wearing immodest clothing. _ Lord Reading, whose name is Rufus Daniel Isaacs, and who is an orthodox Jew who attained the distinction of being lord chief justice of Great Britain, has been made viceroy of India, to govern more than 300,000,000 people, most of whom are Mohammedans. So that Jews now govern Egypt, Palestine and India. The American Federation of Labor, at its session on Feb. 23, made a list of demands that would destroy present constitutional government in the United States. One was that courts could not pass on the constitutionality of laws enacted by Congress, An Arizona expedition of seven persons is about to start on an expedition to trace the route of the ancient American Indians from the south into Arizona. Mrs. Margaret Ricketson, sister of Andrew Carnegie, gave $2,000 toward defraying the expenses of the expedition, 226 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Henry J. Ryan, national chairman of the Americanization committee of the American Legion, says there are 8,000 disloyal teachers in the American public schools. That is not fresh news to close observers. J. W. Ruby, a Boston, Mass., importer, in discussing legislation before the Massachusetts legislature, pointed out that women were becoming less valuable than men in industry from the fact that lately they are trying to show their gene superiority over men. The Typographical Record, a representative labor journal, said, in February: "The employers should thank their lucky stars, or whatever they worship, that we are not sufficiently militant to demand the six-hour day at this time." This was on a labor-union demand for a 44-hour week. On the other hand, employers are insisting that reasonable production in America calls for a 50-hour week. France is the chief nation crowding Germany to the terms of the treaty of Versailles, to the extent that the statesmen of other nations fear an ultimate renewal of the war, hence join in the pressure to convince the Teuton that all will combine against him. For the facts are inescapable, either Germany must pay the losses of the war or France will have to pay them. Germany made the war and saw to it that none of the fighting or devastation took place on German soil. France bore the burden, must she now pay for Germany's treachery? On March 8, allied troops occupied Rhine cities to hold additional German territory as one of the penalties for Germany's failure to meet the allied reparation demands. King George the Fifth, of Great Britain, is a descendant in the direct line from King David of Israel, is the announcement made at the recent British Israel Congress at London, Eng., by Herbert Garrison, secretary-general of the British Israel World Federation; he also stated that the proof was in a London public building. The line of descent comes through Queen Victoria, and not through the prince-consort. At the same meeting, Major-General C. A. Hadfield declared that Great Britain was doing work allocated to Israel, and that the British or Saxon race were of the stock of Israel—though not all of Judah, from whom the Lost Tribes, known in history as Israel, were separated. If interested people would examine a 200 year old book in our Utah Genealogical Library they would not only see this royal line but all other royal lines then found in Europe and Asia.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
Mrs. Emmeline B. WELLS - - - - - President Mrs. Clarissa S. WILLIAMS - - - - - - First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith - - - - - Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman - - - - - General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates - - - Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey - - - - - General Treasurer
Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - Susa Young Gates Business Manager - - - - - - - - Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. VIII APRIL, 1921 No. 4
WHAT ABOUT OUR CLOTHES?
There seems to be a concerted movement on the part of women everywhere to reduce clothing to the elementary terms which Eve employed when she pinned a few fig leaves together with a few thorns. Indeed, to look at fashion-plates and to read the dictums of Paris, one wonders whether even fig leaves will be in evidence, or will they in the future be in the discard? Thinking people are naturally concerned over this state of affairs, and various reasons are named as the cause of the manifestation, and varied counsels and adjurations are thundered forth in the pulpit and press, all usually directed to the mothers. O, these mothers—of the race! Yet this indecency of clothes is not only a cause of immorality but is the effect of a vicious social ideal. Therefore let us consider the question somewhat in its larger moral and worldly aspects. Well, I am a mother; the mother of three daughters and ten sons; and I was a girl. I am a grandmother today and could easily be a great-grandmother if my twenty-two-year-old granddaughter were as matrimonially forward-looking as her mother and grandmother were. Moreover, I have a very excellent memory of my girlhood innocence of thought, and I likewise inherit the New England tormenting habit of introspection. As
228 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
I taught special physiology to the girls at the Brigham Young University for many years, I was obliged to learn some plain truths. With that background, and with the foundation which comes from the fact that the gospel of Jesus Christ sets up strict chastity in both men and women, as the pillar of the home, I may look out from my religious and domestic retreat at the world and its growing depravity with infinite pity and prayer. Worldly men and women have set up a double standard of virtue—the man may sin little or much—but the wife must be sinless. Yet, let me qualify that—the very recent tendency is to glorify women who tear their own moral standards to pieces and who go forth into the market-place refusing motherhood, and bearing on their shoulders the same tattered emblems of domestic ideals which serve for smoking, drinking, swearing and unmoral men. Who is to blame for all this, and what is the remedy? I wish it might fit the purpose of this writing to answer on general lines that everybody is to blame, especially the man who stands as the leader and example of his household—and that the only remedy is to accept the gospel of Jesus Christ and to square our lives by that standard. One shining pillar of that standard I wish to take as the basis of this writing—personal chastity of both men and women from birth to death. Here is a segment of our daily domestic problem stated in direct terms at the head of this article: What about our clothes? The mothers of the race, especially the oblivious grandmothers, may choose to dismiss the matter by saying that such indecent fashion conditions have always existed in greater or less degree according to the time, the people and the environment. Yet if they are to give the benefit of their experience and counsel to their struggling mother-daughters, they must face the question squarely and try to discover some measurably helpful answers. First then, shall we not insist that men, husbands, fathers and sons, shall assemble at this council and lead out in both discussion and solution? Do you recall Mrs. Poyser's reply to Bartle Massey in "Adam Bede" when he flung out the challenging statement that "women were fools." "Yes," she sanely countered, "women are fools. God Almighty made 'em to match the men." So here we are, men and women, gravely concerned over the growing tendency to adopt more and more indecent costumes on the part of our women. We know but little about this evil in our sheltered Latter-day Saint communities; but there are some basic truths which we, as well as men and women everywhere, should
EDITORIAL. 229
be made to understand before we can approach the growing evil of indecent clothing and dancing with anything like comprehension of its difficulties and possibilities. Men do not understand women—every penny-a-liner knows that quaint old chestnut. But it is an equally ancient truth, although it is a profound secret, that women do not understand men. The charm of the sexes is unlikeness, differentiation, with the constant mystery which bounds for us the world with which we are unfamiliar. Women, bless their age-long stupid hearts, think they understand men, and all their sex ideals are set up on the sedate pedestal framed upon their own physical limitations and what they constantly demand of men as their own sex corollary. On the other hand, no man, unless he be a physician or a shrewd, corrupt rascal, can be made to understand that women,—unless they ride in the same medical or impure vehicles as such men do—are perpetually innocent. Women meander around in that inner garden of Eden, until death at the century mark transports them to some place where some one, it is hoped, will give them enough taste of the forbidden fruit to set their teeth on edge. Try to tell a white-haired grandmother who has never even smelled the apple, through wise books, or personal, unwise, youthful action that it is wicked for a girl to go about with bare shoulders and silk-clad legs bare to the knee and she will give you the stony stare as she insinuatingly asks, Why? If you try to present her with a portion of apple in the shape of description as to the temptation such exhibitions have for young men, or old men, she responds either sarcastically or loftily, "What nonsense! Men's nature, indeed! Men have no business with such thoughts. Pure men don't have such horrid impulses. What's wrong with that lovely, delicate arm and neck? To the pure all things are pure!" Discouraging? Of course, your retreat is —— as discreetly as may be, although you know your own reputation has gone by the board with your pious endeavor to point out the tree of knowledge. A man, or a boy, is never innocent in the matter of sex manifestations. He may be vastly ignorant on other matters, and he may be positively pure in word and deed himself, yet all the king's horses and all the king's men couldn't tear the conviction from his soul that every girl, be she ten, or fifty years old, does know exactly what he knows about sex matters, and knowing it, often deliberately sets a trap to stab his hard-won chastity to the death. If you try to tell him, if he is a pure man—and our men are pure or they are not Latter-day Saints
230 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
No matter if he be a boy or a grandfather—that mothers and girls sin ignorantly in this matter of clothes, he will only be infinitely amused at the depths of your own credulity. Try to explain that for girls all sex-matters are hidden forever—unless they sin, or study,—in banks of romance-laden clouds of rose and purple mists, and the man will either scoff or pity you. Then what shall we begin with as to remedy for this indecent-clothes-evil? Knowledge! Knowledge for the pure, chivalrous boy concerning the natural innocence and ignorance of girls. Knowledge for the pure romance-fooled girl that she is constantly offering, when improperly clothed, the fruit of temptation to every male who sees her. Also kindly and firmly awaken the girl—the boy carries his knowledge ever with him—from her innocent state by telling her in terms of creative life exactly what her dreams and thrills mean. Show her the danger of offering open temptation to the man as well as veiled temptation to her own ignorant self in the form of improper dances, costumes, conduct, and even glances and words. Tell her about the four physical natural appetites which preserve and perpetuate life; the appetite for food, for drink, for sleep and for child-bearing, or procreation. Tell her how infinitely stronger the last is than any of the others. Then tell her of the menace to life and society if any of these appetites, or desires, especially the last, be gratified unlawfully. Just uncover these sex-powder magazines and explain how quickly explosions occur. Be sure to picture the normal and beautiful results of such appetites, when legally awakened and domestically satisfied. Let your information contain many "do's" as well as a few disciplinary "don'ts." Teach her that repression is as unnatural as lewdness. Our state has paid ten thousand dollars or more in a health campaign this year to teach children to wash their little hands before meals, to breathe through their little noses, and to wash their teeth three times a day. Our government, in a futile endeavor to correct the moral or immoral conditions revealed by the war, spent tens of thousands of dollars to scare parents to death over the prevalence of venereal diseases. Well, so far, so good, perhaps. But what's the use of snipping at the branches of a diseased tree when the root needs attention? The ground work of all teaching should be what the Prophet Joseph Smith taught and, what all of his successors have maintained, personal purity from the cradle to the grave. Let there be an inflexible single standard of virtue set up as the only safe foundation for a home. This ideal can be painfully built up, year by year, in the pulpit, by skilled lecturers, and through devoted teachers, only to be destroyed in one thoughtless dinner-table conversation between worldly men whom boys have set up, as
EDITORIAL. 231
social or business leaders, or the deliberate acknowledgment by physicians, or public press leaders, that a single standard of virtue "is an impossibility." Granted that such a standard is infinitely harder for men, (especially for men of the world, whose social ideals rest on the double standard of virtue foundation)—to attain and to maintain than it is for women, women must still insist that this rule of life is the only one which will, here or hereafter, qualify men to stand at the head of the household. The double standard of virtue, I am convinced, lies at the very root of most of the present evils of society in the world. Why should women remain pure, why should they bear children in pain, and rear them in struggle, for fathers who are neither chaste nor loyal to the family they nominally support? No wonder that worldly women want birth-control laws, prefer flats, and hotels, learn to smoke and to pet dogs; their natural maternal impulses, of which this indecent dress is but a silly, if not criminal, outward expression, when denied legitimate exercise in a normal, well-directed home (founded on a religion of spiritual ideals and personal discipline) fling off all barriers and follow men as they flee from home life into clubs and dissipation. O, the pity of it all! To return to the problem as it begins to affect our own lives and homes here in Utah. Mothers and fathers, teachers and preachers, even here at home, must seek and find the best ways to open the eyes of boys and men, to their own responsibilities and to the difference in the sex-nature thoughts of girls and of boys. While girls and women must quietly and diligently study the different nature and impulses which boys and men both enjoy and endure. Sex is sex in both. But its manifestations and unfoldings are so very differently comprehended by the boy and by the girl. Let not this flood of iniquity pour into our own homes through our own indifference or ignorance. Wake up, mothers. Then there is another important factor in this problem. The magnetic gifts of natural, female social leaders is too often underestimated or totally ignored. The gifts of the preacher, teacher, artist and musician, are recognized and lauded. But the gifts of a man or woman who has the power to set the civic or social pace are frequently despised, always envied, and too often commercialized or even prostituted by the possessor, because of lack of sympathy and guidance. Such socially-minded women, too often learn to be satisfied with the cheap triumph of unusual conduct or indecent dress. The religious leader and social leader are rarely the same person. These unrecognized and yet magnetic social female
232 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
leaders are sometimes society's menace. Probably childless themselves, from deliberate selfish choice, they fritter away their domestic and maternal impulses in ill-considered club leadership and slum social-welfare activities. Easily persuaded to fly from civic reforms to social problems and evils, they, by their fashionable dress, conduct and sub-normal ethical standards, set destructive fire to the altars in the homes of the poor and radiate extravagance and indecency to the heart of every silly girl who enters their aura of influence. Such a woman or girl, social leaders as they naturally are, if they are properly reached, and their best impulses appealed to, could do more in one month to correct bad habits in costumes than all the preachers in the pulpits. These social leaders, in our Church at least, could and should be transformed into religious leaders, their powers acknowledged, and their leadership along right lines guided by friendly stimulus and encouragement. The woman leader, however, must be taught sex laws to begin with for both men and women, whether she is sixteen or sixty. Cherish your leaders for there are so few leaders and so very many followers. And now, what about this problem of indecent clothes and conduct as applied to our own Latter-day Saint young people? Be not asleep at your posts, mothers and grandmothers, for vanity and innocence are the natural inheritance of girls in every age and every clime. The story of the Garden of Eden is acted out every day of the world, in every age of the world. Adam is never deceived, Eve is always deceived as to the root-sources of her impulses and her thrills. We don't want to shut our girls up as the orientals do in order to protect their innocence, then we must teach them the truth, explain the reasons for our advice and thus prevent this on-rushing surge of looseness and wickedness from gaining a foothold in Latter-day Saint homes. By right knowledge and by right example we may hope to solve in part the problem of modern clothes for modern women.
NUTS AS DAILY FOOD
Most modern women suffer from the disease-breeding effects of constipation. Physical culture, deep breathing, exercise, and various diets are used in a sometimes vain attempt to correct this condition. Medicine, which begins in the form of tablets and pills, allows cascarets and calomel to follow in the wake
EDITORIAL. 233
of unwise dietetic habits. The victim is soon a slave to medicine and no man or woman who habitually forces nature in this respect can be normally healthy or fitted for good work in the world. It has been said by a great English authority that any person afflicted with constipation who will make one meal entirely on nuts and raisins, or nuts and figs, dates, or prunes, will never again suffer from constipation. To be effectual, however, the nuts and raisins or prunes should be the only food partaken of at the meal. A little salt sprinkled on the nuts, not too much, makes them palatable and more easily digested. Then, at least a pint of water should be drunk at the close of the meal, and another pint, as soon thereafter as can be managed. Not only do the nuts correct the constipation habit, but, according to the Literary Digest for December 4, 1920, they furnish an almost ideal food as well. We quote: "Most people eat nuts as an addition to a meal rather than as part of it. We are occasionally adjured to live wholly on nuts and other uncooked food, after the manner of our arboreal ancestors, but few of us have taken this advice seriously. Nuts, however, are real foods and deserve a place in the diet, not as a sort of frill superadded to it. They are indigestible as often eaten, but apparently not because the stomach can not deal with their substance. Finely chewed, or made into flour or pastes, they cause no trouble. An editorial writer in The Journal of the American Medical Association (Chicago), reporting the results of experimental work at Yale University, asserts that not only is nut protein of superior quality, but that nuts contain elements valuable to animal growth. They are also the only vegetable product that is as efficient as animal food for the elaboration of human milk. We read in the medical journal named above: "The food chemist has long given to the various nuts a prominent place among concentrated foods. From his analytic standpoint they may even surpass such recognizedly valuable foods as meats, eggs, and cereals in their concentration of nutrients. Although nuts and products made from them have been used by man the world over as adjuvants to his usual diet, they have only lately obtained larger recognition. The failure to eat nuts more extensively is doubtless due in part to their reputation for indigestibility and to the discomfort that may occur after eating them at the close of a heavy meal. "Scientific studies have not justified the reputation for the indigestibility of nuts. Experiments conducted by Cajori at Yale emphasized anew that nuts are valuable foods. If nuts are eaten properly and used in the diet as eggs, meat, and other foods rich
234 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
in protein are eaten, they behave quite as well in the body as do the ordinary staple articles of food. Particularly when nuts are finely chewed or are consumed in the finely divided form of nut pastes or nut 'butters,' there can be no complaint about the proper utilization of the product. "But the nuts have something more than mere digestibility to recommend them. Their protein is, in general, of a superior quality. The production of good growth is a test for biologic 'completeness' of a protein. In experiments just conducted at Yale University, Cajori has secured very satisfactory growth over long periods in animals on diets in which the almond, English walnut, filbert, and pine nut, respectively, furnished the essential source of protein in the ration. From a study of the relations of diet to milk production in women, Hoobler pointed out, not long ago, that as a rule animal proteins are more efficient than vegetable proteins for the elaboration of human milk. However, nut proteins were an exception to this generalization in that diets containing almonds, English walnuts, pecans, and peanut-butter as a source of protein proved to be as suitable for milk production as diets that furnished protein from animal sources. The latest information as to the nutritive virtues of commonly used nuts can only be welcomed, particularly by those who, like diabetics, rely on these food products, most of which are poor in digestible carbohydrates but rich in proteins and fats, to enlarge the variety of a limited regimen."
DEATH OF PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND
The passing of one of Israel's great leaders, President Anthon H. Lund, leaves a whole people mourning for a beloved friend, a mighty counselor and a wise conservative patriot. He was the greatest Scandinavian born through the waters of baptism into the Church of Christ in modern times. If the gospel preached in that land had borne no other fruit this great and mighty man would have repaid the labor and time of the many missionaries in the long years. His people here have lost a true friend and a faithful father. The Church is rich in his life's labors, and his loss will be felt wherever an L. D. S. Branch is formed. His family were knit together in the closest ties of sympathy and affection. Not less great as a woman was his lovely and gifted wife, Sarah Peterson Lund, daughter of the first two Scandinavian converts in the days of the Prophet, in Missouri. Kanute Peterson was himself a great leader of men, wise in
EDITORIAL. 235
counsel, powerful in testimony, and Sanpete came nearly, in the pioneer Utah days, being spelled out in the letters of his name. While his first wife, Sarah Peterson, was a tower of strength and inspiration to her husband's family, to the people and to the great cause of the Relief Society. She was the Sanpete Stake President of the Society for years and she it was who originated the scheme of saving Sunday eggs for Relief Society funds. The hens always laid the Sabbath eggs. Her daughter, Sister Lund, has avoided public life, devoting herself to daily pressing needs, and to her adoring family. She lies now stricken and yet cheerful. The children of President Lund are all wonderfully gifted, in music, in art, and in cultural lines. Already they have written their names large in the history of the Church and of the State. Our hearts go out to them in this hour of affliction for we too are lonely and grieved with the passing of our friend and leader, President Anthon H. Lund.
BIRTHDAY RECEPTION FOR PRESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS.
A charming, delightful and most successful reception was tendered our venerable president, Emmeline B. Wells, on the 28th of February, at the Hotel Utah. She was ninety-three years old, or would be at midnight or near about, as she was born on the 29th of February, and has a birthday only once in four years. She looked like a fragile Dresden figure, in her pale silks, white laces, and trailing flowers, but she was very much alive and enjoyed every moment of the afternoon's greetings, music, compliments, gifts of flowers as well as the telegrams and congratulations which poured in upon her. At the head of the receiving line stood our first counselor, Clarissa Smith Williams; with second counselor, Julina L Smith; and general secretary, Amy Brown Lyman and other members of the board who did the hand-shaking by proxy for the president, and for themselves. The five nearby stake presidents also acted on the receiving committee. Counselor Clarissa Smith Williams, noted the presence of grand-nephews and grand-nieces of the Prophet Joseph Smith, descendants of his brother, Patriarch Hyrum Smith, and descendants of the following leaders and pioneers: Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo
236 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Snow, Joseph F. Smith, George A. Smith, Willard Richards, Daniel H. Wells, Charles C. Rich, Ezra T. Benson, Erastus Snow, Jedediah M. Grant, Bishop Whitney, Bishop Partridge. Of the Authorities present there were: President Charles W. Penrose, President Rudger Clawson, James E. Talmage, B. H. Roberts, Richard R. Lyman, Bishop David A. Smith, Rulon S. Wells. The reception was certainly unique in this feature, as well as in the presence of so many distinguished men and women who paid their compliments to our president. The committee of the board, who had charge of the affair, were Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon, chairman, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth and Mrs. Donette Smith Kessler. Relief Society women will be pleased to know that copies of Normal Life, by Dr. Edward T. Devine, may be obtained from the publishers, Douglas C. McMurtrie, 2929 Broadway, New York. Price, $1.75. The supply was exhausted in the early fall, but a new edition has been published.
CHRISTIANITY THE FINAL RELIGION
Dr. Samuel M. Zwemer, of the Reformed Church of America, has prepared a very, very comprehensive book on the missionary spiritual outlook for the conversion of the oriental races. The chapter titles indicate the scope of the work. 1. Earliest Christianity. 2. Thinking Gray in Missions. 3. The Solidarity of the Race. 4. The Impact of Christianity on non-Christian Religions. 5. What is the Apostolic Gospel? 6. The Stumbling Block of the Cross. 7. Christianity as Final Religion. It is published by Erdmans-Sevensena Co., Grand Rapids, Michigan. All who are interested in this wide-appealing subject will welcome this book. It is treated, of course, from a sectarian point of view, but is not colored nor biased in any particular manner.
Guide Lessons for June
LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in June) (Confirmation)
To confirm a gift or power upon an individual is to ratify, or to establish it; to set a seal, as it were, upon the person as a mark of authenticity. Without the ceremony of the laying on of hands, by one having authority to do so, the ceremony of baptism would be incomplete. And it is by the imposition of hands that the Priesthood is conferred upon men. It is through this ceremony that men are ordained to various offices in the priesthood; and women as well as men are sometimes thus set apart for offices in the auxiliary organizations. This ceremony is also used to administer to the sick, and is an ancient ceremony of the Church of Christ. (See Compendium, and Ready Reference.) John the Baptist, came in his resurrected body and laid his hands upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, 15th May, 1829, conferring upon them the Aaronic Priesthood. Else the Prophet would not have had authority to organize the Church. The Melchizedek Priesthood was conferred upon these two men in the same manner. (See Doc. And Cov. 20:3, 4; Sec. 21:10-12.) An interesting incident connected with this ordination is herein related:
Testimony of Jacob Gates
My father, Jacob Gates, while on his way to England, in 1849, stopped at the town of Richmond, where lived at that time Oliver Cowdery. Hearing that Oliver was in poor health, and wishing to renew old acquaintance, as they had been friends in earlier days, father called on him at his home. Their conversation, during the visit drifted to early Church history, and to their mutual experiences during the troublous times in Missouri and Illinois. Finally father put this question to him: "Oliver," said he, "I want you to tell me the whole truth about your testimony concerning the Book of Mormon—the testimony sent forth to the world over your signature and found in the front of that book. Was your testimony based on a dream, was it the imagination of your mind, was it an illusion, a myth—tell me truthfully?" To question him thus seemed to touch Oliver very deeply. He answered not a word, but arose from his easy chair, went to the book case, took down a Book of Mormon of the first edition, turned to the testimony of the Three Witnesses, and read in the most solemn manner the words to which he had subscribed his name, nearly twenty years before. Facing
238 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
my father, he said: "Jacob, I want you to remember what I say to you. I am a dying man, and what would it profit me to tell you a lie? I know," said he, "that this Book of Mormon was translated by the gift and power of God. My eyes saw, my ears heard, and my understanding was touched, and I know that whereof I testified is true. It was no dream, no vain imagination of the mind—it was real." Then father asked him about the angel under whose hands he received the priesthood, to which he made answer thus: "Jacob, I felt the hand of the angel on my head as plainly as I could feel yours, and could hear his voice as I now hear yours." Then father asked this question: "If all that you tell me is true, why did you leave the Church?" Oliver made only this explanation; said he: "When I left the Church, I felt wicked, I felt like shedding blood, but I have got all over that now."
State of Utah, County of Salt Lake, ss.
Jacob F. Gates, of Salt Lake City, Utah, being first duly sworn, deposes and says that he is a citizen of the United States of the age of fifty-seven years, and that he is the son of Jacob Gates, who, prior to his death, related to affiant a conversation which he had with Oliver Cowdery, at the town of Richmond, State of Missouri, and that the above and foregoing is a true and correct statement of said conversation as given to him by his father.
Jacob F, Gates.
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 30th day of January, 1912.
Arthur Winters, Notary Public.
My commission expires December 3, 1915.
Improvement Era, March, 1912.
In the long centuries of Jewish supremacy the priests held the power to baptize, to offer sacrifice and to preach the gospel. They also confirmed the male children at the age of twelve years, Madame Mountford clearly describes the confirmation ceremony in her book, Jesus Christ in His Homeland, pages 76, 77, 78, and 79, We see him as a child of twelve coming up to Jerusalem. It is the Feast of the Passover. Why does it mention twelve? Why doesn't it say eleven or thirteen. Because twelve was his initiation year. Up to the age of thirteen the father or the eldest male member of the family is liable to divine and human punishment for the offenses of the boy, but as soon as the boy becomes thirteen, the father or guardian, brings him up to the synagogue and declares that he is now what is called a "Bar Mitzvah, a child of the commandment;" that his son has been instructed in the why and wherefore of the fasts and feasts, and all about the law, and the ceremony of confirmation takes place, and this child then becomes a member of the united church, and he is looked upon as being old enough to get married, and bears his own sins. At twelve years old the ceremony of initiation takes place and the child is initiated into the why and wherefore of the fasts and feasts. And so, here Jesus comes, at twelve years old, to be initiated into the Feast of the Passover. You will see them coming today, from Dan to Beersheba, with their flags and banners, to spend the Passover in Jerusalem. During the lenten season, they begin every day coming up to Jerusalem, and in Passion Week they all come by tribes, bearing their banners, and the little boys of the village go ahead of the procession, and the boys that come to be initiated carry their banner at the head of the
GUIDE LESSONS. 239
procession. So the Jerusalem procession meets those who come from the villages, and precedes them through the streets of Jerusalem, and they come to the places of worship, and their banners are taken from them and placed each one according to his lineage. They attend the public service, and afterwards attend what they call the schools of the law, equivalent to what you call your Sunday schools. You have your Sunday school adjoining your churches. Ours would be outside, in the court. There are arcades; there are the doctors of the law, and all the little boys that can read gather together and the priests hear them study different questions of the law. And those are open all day long, every day—not like your Sunday schools, one day once a week. And we even have a relay of priests that are there at night, so that if anybody wants any instruction on a religious point he simply comes here where the doctors of the law are sitting, and can get all the information he wants. The little boys that can read are allowed to come in with the doctors of the law, and are at perfect liberty to ask any question of the doctors, and the doctors ask them questions, so that the child shall have a reason for his faith, And they never think of silencing these young aspirants, but question them very closely. You will see the doctors of the law sitting in these different places of worship. For instance, in the Mosque of Omar the doctors of the law will be gathered together at the Feast of the Nebi Moosa, and at Easter time. These feasts are mentioned by their names, but the Passover and Easter and the feasts of Moses all fall together at Easter time. The three different religions have all been cradled out of the Bible, the Jewish, Christian and Mohammedan religions, so they all have these same feasts, and the doctors and priests from the different villages meet at these three feasts, and the doctors of each respective religion of Jerusalem give special lectures at that time, each in his place of worship. And after the public services, the doctors from the different villages come and listen to the lectures delivered by the different priests of Jerusalem. It is a sort of parliament of religions. We read in Chamber's Encyclopaedia: Volume III, page 181: Confirmation, a latin word which signifies strengthening. In the ancient church, the rite so named was administered immediately after baptism, if the bishop happened to be present at the solemnity, which is still the custom in the Greek and African churches. In the Roman Catholic church, for the last 300 or 400 years, the bishops have interposed a delay of seven years after infant baptism; in the Lutheran church, the rite is usually delayed for from 13 to 16 years; and in the English church, from 14 to 18 years. There is, however, in the latter church no limit to the period. Confirmation may be administered at an earlier period, if a family is about to emigrate; and persons are confirmed up to 60 or 70, if they choose. The ceremony consists in the imposition of hands by the bishop, accompanied by an invocation of the Holy Ghost as the comforter and strengthener. But both in the Lutheran and English churches, the ceremony is made the occasion requiring from those who have been baptized in infancy, a renewal in their own persons of the baptismal vow made for them by their godfathers and godmothers, who are thereby released from their responsibility. None can partake of the Lord's Supper, in these churches, unless they have been confirmed. In the Roman Catholic church, confirmation is held to be one of the seven sacraments, and in its administration, unction and the sign of the cross are used; and instead of the imposition of hands, the person confirmed receives a little blow on the cheek, to remind him that he must in future
240 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
suffer affronts for the name of Christ. In the English Thirty-nine Articles, Confirmation is declared not to be one of the sacraments, and the above ceremonies have been discontinued since the Reformation. While the following is found in The Encyclopaedia Britannica: "Confirmation, (to establish, make firm) in the Christian sense, the initiatory rite of laying on of hands, supplementary to and completing baptism, and especially connected with the gift of the Holy Ghost to the candidate. The words "confirm" and "confirmation" are not used in the Bible in this technical sense, which has only grown up since the 5th century, and only in the Western churches of Christendom and in their offshoots, but the rite itself has been practised in the Church from the beginning. The history of confirmation has passed through three stages. In the first ages of the Church, when it was recruited chiefly by converts who were admitted in full age, confirmation, or the laying on of hands (Heb. Vi. 2), followed close upon baptism, and in the majority of cases the two were combined in a single service. But only the highest order of ministers could confirm (see Acts viii. 14-17); whereas priests and deacons, and in an emergency, laymen and even women, could baptize. In the East (among the Russian and Greek Catholics) greater emphasis was laid on the anointing with oil, which had long been an adjunct of the laying on of hands: the oil was consecrated by the bishop, and the child anointed or "sealed" with it by the parish priest, and this was reckoned as its confirmation. With its baptism thus completed, the infant was held to be capable of receiving holy communion. And to this day in the Eastern church (Russian or Greek Catholic) the infant is baptized, anointed and confirmed by the parish priest in the course of a single service; and thus the bishop and the laying on of hands have disappeared from the ordinary service of confirmation. Western (or Roman Catholic) canons insist on both points at once; baptism is not to be deferred beyond a week, nor confirmation beyond seven years. The rubrics of the English Prayer-Book direct that the person who is baptized as an adult is to "be confirmed by the bishop as soon after his baptism as conveniently may be." Theologians in the West laid it down as a rule that confirmation should be deferred till the child could learn a catechism on the fundamentals of the Christian faith, which Calvin thought he might do by the time he was ten. Many of the Protestant bodies have abandoned the rite, but it remains among the Lutherans (who, whether episcopal or not, attach great importance to it) and in the group of Churches in communion with the Church of England. In the Catholic Apostolic church ("Irvingites") confirmation is called "sealing," and is administered by the "angels."? Among the Roman Catholics it is reckoned one of the seven sacraments, and administered at about the age of eight: in many cases less emphasis is laid on the confirmation than on the first communion, (the Lord's Supper) which follows it.. Practically, the preparation of candidates for confirmation is the most important and exacting duty of the Anglican (English Episcopal) parish priest, as the administration of the rite is the most arduous of a bishop's tasks: and after a long period of slovenly neglect these duties are now generally discharged with great care: classes are formed and instruction is given for several weeks before the coming of the bishop "to lay on hands" after the example of the Holy Apostles (prayer in the Confirmation Service). Of late years there has been a controversy GUIDE LESSONS. 241 among Anglican theologians as to the exact nature of the gift conveyed through confirmation, or, in other words, whether the Holy Spirit can be said to have come to dwell in those who have been baptized but not confirmed. The view that identifies confirmation rather than baptism with the Pentecostal outpouring of the Spirit on the Church has had to contend against a long-established tradition, but appeals to Scripture (Acts viii, 16) and to patristic teaching." We read in, What The World Believes, concerning Confirmation in the Roman Catholic Church: The sacrament of Confirmation can be conferred only by one having received episcopal consecration, unless in special cases, as where in remote districts which a bishop cannot visit. Confirmation is defined as a sacrament in which men receive the Holy Ghost to make them strong and perfect Christians, and soldiers of Jesus Christ. The order for conferring the sacrament is short. The bishop in white cope and a mitre recites prayers to ask the Holy Ghost to descend upon those to be confirmed. He then takes his seat before the altar, and the candidates advance one by one, each attended by a sponsor. The bishop now asks the name of each, and has it registered, after which he dips his right thumb into the chrism (oil that has been blessed), and therewith makes the sign of the cross upon the forehead, the bishop at the same time saying: "I confirm you by the chrism of salvation, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost," giving a gentle blow on the cheek to the person confirmed and saying, "Peace be with you." The Ready Reference gives quotations as follows, on pages 52 and 53:: Tertullian, one of the Latin Fathers, writing in the second century, says: "After baptism succeeds the laying on of hands, with prayer, calling for the Holy Ghost." Cyprian, a writer of the third century, says: "Our practice is, that those who have been baptized into the church should be presented, that by prayer and imposition of hands they may receive the Holy Ghost." Again he says: "It is manifest where, and by whom the remission of sins, which is conferred in baptism, is administered. They who are presented to the rulers of the church obtain, by our prayers and imposition of hands, the Holy Ghost." Mosheim, the great German historian, writing of the third century, says: "This ceremony (that of baptism) was performed only in the presence of such as were already initiated into the Christian mysteries. The remission of sins was thought to be its immediate and happy fruit, while the bishop, by prayer and the imposition of hands, was supposed to confer those sanctifying gifts of the Holy Ghost, that are necessary to a life of righteousness and virtue." Eusebius, in his Ecclesiastical History, (page 113), alludes to this ordinance, in referring to the baptism of Novatian, as follows: "He * * * fell into a grievous distemper, and it being supposed that he would die immediately, he received baptism (being besprinkled with water) on the bed where he lay (if that can be termed baptism): neither when he had escaped that sickness, did he afterwards receive the other things which the canon of the church enjoineth should be received: nor was he sealed by the bishop's imposition of hands; which if he never received, how did he receive the Holy Ghost?" 242 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, Augustine, in the fourth century, says: "We still do what the apostles did when they laid their hands on the Samaritans and called down the Holy Ghost upon them." The Latter-day Saints believe in the laying on of hands after baptism for the "Gift of the Holy Ghost," with a set form of words, and they ordain men to the Priesthood, in the same manner, but with appropriate words. But this ceremony must be performed by one having the Melchizedec Priesthood. The Aaronic Priesthood does not have authority to seal or confirm. Authority to administer in all these ordinances must rest in the Higher Priesthood. QUESTIONS 1. What do you mean by confirmation? 2. Explain the ceremony of confirmation after baptism. 3. What do the Roman Catholics hold concerning confirmation? 4. The Episcopalians? 5. The Protestants? 6. What can you say of the sealing power? 7. Why and how are men and women set apart for office? 8. Read articles on "Laying on of Hands" in Compendium and Ready Reference. Pearl of Great Price, page 98. LESSON II. Work and Business (Second Week in June) LESSON III Literature Up! Awake, Ve Defenders of Zion In turning to the hymns of Charles W. Penrose, we have evidence of what in literature is a very unique power; the ability to create an atmosphere entirely different to that which one is accustomed to, in daily life—an atmosphere wholly unfamiliar to the author from actual contact. It is the thing Shakespeare did in "Romeo and Juliet;" the thing Lew Wallace, who had never visited Palestine, did in "Ben Hur," and the thing John Drinkwater has done, recently, in "Abraham Lincoln." English by birth, Mr. Drinkwater has canght that which is distinct in the character of Abraham Lincoln, as well as that 'which is distinct in American life, and created a drama that the American knows is a drama of American life. Such things GUIDE LESSONS. 243 are almost unthinkable to a person without imagination, and we believe them mainly because seeing is believing; "Up! Awake, ye defenders of Zion," the battle hymn of the Latter-day Saints, was written in London, about four years before its author left his native land and sailed for America. It is little short of a psychic miracle that a poet seven thousand miles away could reproduce the intellectual and emotional life of a whole people so widely separated from him; yet it is just that very thing Elder Penrose has done. He has embodied in words of life and fire the surging emotions of his people, whose life he has shared for many years among the "mountains high, where the clear blue sky arches over the vales of the free," and among whom he now stands venerable and beloved, as his people recognize with daily increasing interest, his unusual ability. Ten years after the arrival of the Utah pioneers, indeed while they were in the midst of celebrating the tenth anniversary of the event, on the shores of Silver Lake, Cottonwood canyon, messengers consisting of Abraham O. Smoot, mayor of Salt Lake City, Judson Stoddard, Porter Rockwell, and Judge Elias Smith, came into camp, and advised President Young that a United States army was moving towards Salt Lake City. Mayor Smoot, who had been East, had learned the fact from Feramorz Little, at Fort Laramie, and with all possible haste had driven back to the valley to bring the information to Governor Young. Judge Drummond, and other Federal officials, equally unscrupulous in character, had written to the federal government charging that the people were in a state of rebellion, and that Governor Young had approved of the burning of the records of the supreme court of the state. These reports were believed by the officials at Washington, who, without further investigation, selected a governor, and sent with him an army to enforce law and order, as they believed such a course necessary. It is difficult to think of anything more unfortunate, under the circumstances; this matter is sometimes referred to as Buchannan's Blunder; it cost the government millions of dollars, and stirred in the hearts of the Saints emotions of great fear and suspicion, as they recalled the terrible days of Missouri and Illinois.; The elders were summoned home from Great Britain to give what assistance they could. On hearing of the turn of events, Elder Penrose responded, even as the keyboard of a telegraph office responds to a touch from far distant points; his hymn quickly brought into being, was sung extensively throughout Great Britain. In a comparatively short time six hundred pounds, in English money, a sum equalling three thousand dollars 244 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in American currency, had been raised; this money was brought home by the elders. "Up, awake, ye defenders of Zion! The foe's at the door of your homes." In the first two lines of the stanza the poet states the case, and in words of special aptness and power calls the people to action, telling them that the foe is nigh unto their very doors. Under such circumstances: "Let each heart be the heart of a lion, Unyielding and proud as he roams." England had called one of her kings the lion-hearted, because he had prosecuted a religious war with great courage, and a spirit that could not be daunted. It is the thought of equal courage and unyielding valor that the poet suggests in a singie word. The words "proud as he roams" is an intimation of such dignity as might become a king, as the lion is the king of beasts. Then it would seem as if the poet had thought, if there be one among you unresponsive to the situation, to him, I say, "Remember the wrongs of Missouri, Forget not the fate of Nauvoo," Note that the poet had two things very similar to say, but his literary instinct told him that if he would make his words effective he must vary his expression. But the great secret of the power of these two lines does not lie in the application of one literary principle, but rather in the use of three; first, the choice of words lending variety; second, the conciseness of the language, and third its power to suggest. In eleven words the poet has said two very important things, a very difficult thing for most people to do; but something a poet must learn to do or he will never reach his goal. Lowell said of Dante, that ten centuries of life were to be found in the "Divine Comedy," certainly several volumes might be written from the thoughts suggested by the "wrongs of Missouri" and "the fate of Nauvoo." In the last two lines we have an epithet used to good effect; it is "God-hating." In modern times, John Ruskin and Alfred Tennyson have used the epithet to very special advantage. The stanza is concluded with the lines, "When the God-hating foe is before you, Stand firm and be faithful and true." There may be those who think "God-hating" is rather a strong epithet; but if they do they are certainly very far removed GUIDE LESSONS. I 245 both in experience and imagination from the time Elder Penrose is depicting. The poet, I have no doubt, was absolutely true to the feeling of the time, and to borrow a word from John Milton has "embalmed" the emotional content of the period. Passing to the second stanza, we read: "By the mountains our Zion's surrounded; Her warriors are noble and brave; And their faith on Jehovah is founded, Whose power is mighty to save. The poet reminds these defenders of Zion that there are two sources on which they may rely for help, the first is the mountains, forming a natural bulwark of defense, the second is the arm of Jehovah, "Whose power is mighty to save." From a natural point of view, nothing short of gross stupidity would lead any mere handful of people to resist a strong, powerful nation, such as the United States; there could be no hope except the hope founded on faith in Jehovah, which faith had brought about unity of purpose and unity of effort known wherever the Latter-day Saints were known. The third Stanza consists of a very pertinent question, which the poet answers: "Shall we bear with oppression forever? Shall we tamely submit to the foe, While the ties of our kindred they sever And the blood of our Prophets shall flow? No! The thought sets the heart wildly beating; Our vows at each pulse we renew, Ne'er to rest till our foes are retreating And to be ever faithful and true." The third stanza is plainly a revolt at any thought of submission. In putting forth the idea, the author makes use of a device often employed by writers and speakers. He asks a very telling question and answers it himself. His question is, shall we submit to oppression, and have our kindred and our prophet slain? It is evident that he is thinking of the "wrongs of Missouri" and "the fate of Nauvoo." In impassioned language he answers "no!'"' we vow never to rest until the foe is retreating. The hymn would fail of its purpose if it did not inspire with implicit faith in the outcome, which, of course, must be victory with glory: "Soon 'the Kingdom' will be independent; In wonder the nations will view The despised ones in glory resplendent; Then let us be faithful and true!" _ It is very difficult for the poet to feel that any other than the spirit of the evil one could have prompted this expedition 246 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Against the Saints of God; consequently he would expect the spirits infernal to be interested in the success of the undertaking, as they have always sought the destruction of the Saints of the Most High God, whose work they would so gladly bring to naught; but be not fearful, "for even though this be true, the Saints will be assisted by a host from the regions eternal," who will make bare our arms in defense of right and crown our victory with "resplendent glory." In concluding this lesson, we wish first to draw attention to the refrain at the close of each stanza, which adds materially to the hymn when sung. The verse of the hymn is well sustained, particularly are the rimes strong. Some poets detract materially from their verse by riming with weak words, or attempting to rime a strong word with a weak word, or a weak word with a strong word, which is equally bad. Yet no other feature of this hymn is as important as its emotional content. The writer of such a hymn must be a veritable mouthpiece of his time. Rudyard Kipling wrote the "Recessional," and voiced in pleasing manner the emotions of the people of the great British Empire, exultant over all their achievements, he was of them and with them. Charles W. Penrose voiced as truly the feelings of his people, who were facing tremendous odds; he was not with them, but assuredly he was of them. Every Latter-day Saint should have two battle hymns among his songs, "Up, awake, ye defenders of Zion," and the "Battle hymn of the Republic." No greater patriot ever lived among us than the late President John Henry Smith, and yet his favorite hymn was "Up, awake, ye defenders of Zion." It is related that during the occupancy of Johnston's army that the U. S. Commissioners sent from Washington, called upon President Young, who invited some of the brethren to be present. The meeting was held in the basement of the Social Hall, nearly completed, used for council meetings. In the midst of the discussion, some very strong questions were asked by the commissioners, and veiled threats were made as to future dangerous possibilities. When pressed for an answer, President Young quietly called out: "Brother Dunbar, sing "Zion," by which the song was known at that time. Brother Dunbar sang "Zion" and it is related that at the close of the ringing challenge to courage the commissioners were so deeply impressed that they returned to Washington pleading for a peaceful adjustment of the case between the U. S. Government and a handful of brave, loyal, but mob-driven religionists. The song was both sermon and reply. GUIDE LESSONS. 247 QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Suggest ways that Elder Penrose must have employed, while in England, to become acquainted with the Latter-day Saints, their location, and their mode of life? 2. Relate an event that comes to you, first, when you think of the "wrongs of Missouri;"' second, when you think "of the fate of Nauvoo." 3. Do you think Elder Penrose fortunate in the use of the word that comes before beating, known grammatically as an adverb? If so, why? 4. In what region do the infernal spirits dwell? Where do the eternal spirits make their abode? 5. Does the word resplendent add anything to the word glory? What does it mean to you? What is a refrain? 6. Who wrote the "Battle hymn of the Republic?" 7. Did Jehovah fight the battles of the Saints in the crisis they faced, as the poet said he would, if they would stand firm and be faithful and true? 8. On whom has this Utah Expedition, as it is spoken of in history, related? Tell how. 9. Tell some ways in which the Saints were benefitted by the coming of Johnston's army to Utah? 10. Relate some story you know of life among the Saints while the army was here. LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in June) VOCATIONAL EDUCATION What is vocation? Whether it be making or mending shoes, setting broken bones, growing vegetables for the market, or preparing them for the dinner table; each type of work to be worth the name vocation, must serve a real need in our complex civilization. Society itself has determined that making alcoholic beverages is not a social need; it is, therefore, forbidden as a vocation. Because producing and preparing food and the mechanical trades do serve essential, basic needs, professional training of young people in these vocations is fostered by federal government appropriations and carried on by the states. The tendency at this time is to over-crowd the non-productive 248 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. vocations, especially in cities. The term non-productive is used here in reference to material production, such as agriculture, mining and manufacturing. There are, of course, many other forms of service equally honorable, and necessary to the life of a civilized community. Occupations having to do with transportation and distribution of goods require the services of a relatively large percentage of the population. In the more distinctly professional lines of work the percentage is smaller. The professions of nurse and teacher are not usually over-crowded. If either should become so the remedy lies in raising the standards of qualification in these vocations. The regular M. D. Medical course is now too long, difficult and expensive to be readily over-crowded. This is not so true of law; this profession is especially liable to over-crowding now that so many young men have opportunities to complete a college course. The greatest difficulty, however, is likely to be in non-productive vocations to which almost anybody of fair education and ability can be admitted. This group of vocations includes real estate, insurance, stock brokerage and others of like nature. To be of real service to the public persons who engage in these vocations should be professionally trained in the business. It happens now that many young men without vocational training of any sort, but with more affinity for easy money than for manual labor, just fall into one of these vocations and work it for all they can get out of it, with little or no regard for the public good. This is not said in condemnation of these vocations, but in their defense; they are an easy prey to the get-rich-quick and get-it-easy despoiler. Of his fellowmen. The wise selection of a vocation and proper vocational training are among the most serious problems that confront the modern youth. They have generally received too little attention from parents, teachers, and community leaders. Wise decisions in these matters concerning not only the future usefulness and happiness of individuals, but also the stability and prosperity of the nation. In recent times our economic structure is becoming too much like an inverted pyramid. Such an economic structure requires that the multitude live from the production of the few. It can result ultimately in nothing short of social disaster. Sometime between the ages of fifteen and twenty years every youth, whether boy or girl, should give serious thought to qualifying for service in a vocation. The problem cannot be solved at one stroke. It may require several years of study and observation, wise counsel, and experimentation before a youth finds himself. He must discover his own abilities and interests and mould these to fit social needs. In any case he is likely to. Become more serious minded and more efficient GUIDE LESSONS. 249 through having a vocational purpose, even though he may later change his. Purpose. A youth often fancies he wants to qualify in a profession of which he has but a surface knowledge. Better acquaintance with the work may reverse his opinion. He must learn, in part at least, by his own experiences, but he should be taught also to profit by the experiences of others, and his observation of the work others are doing. Every girl should have ambition to qualify in two vocations—that of home making, and that of earning a living by other means whenever occasion requires. An unmarried woman is always happier when following a vocation in which she can be socially serviceable and financially independent. In no case should she be constrained to accept an unworthy companion as'a means of support. Any married woman may become a widow-at any tife; property may vanish as readily as husbands may die. Thus any woman may be under the necessity of earning her own living and helping to support dependents. Why should not she be trained for the duties and the emergencies of life? QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES 1. What is a vocation? 2. Show how vocations multiply as society becomes more complex. 3. Why should every young person, irrespective of family wealth, qualify in some vocation? A. May "making money" become a subordinate aim in selecting or following a vocation? B. What other considerations ought to be prominent? 5. Why are wise selection of vocations and proper vocational training of young people matters of public as well as of individual concern? 6. What is the social effect of an over supply of persons in non-productive vocations? 7. A. Why is it desirable to promote manufacturing industries in your state? B. -What may be the relationship of the vocational training of young people to development of industries? Why should women receive vocational training? 9. A. Why was the "old style old maid" generally forlorn? B. What has vocational training and practice done to modify the situation of the unmarried woman? 10. What vocations are especially suitable to women? W. R. McDONALD, Pres. D. H. CANNON, Mgr. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling 4 Uses for Roof Garden Chocolate (Sweetened) Cake Icing Bon Bon Dipping Hot Chocolate Eating New, different, delicious—Roof Garden Chocolate is a sweetened chocolate that is at once a dainty confection for eating, a bon bon coating, a rich drinking chocolate and an icing for cake. In any of its four uses, Roof Garden Chocolate requires no butter, no sugar, no eggs and no flavoring. And it's absolutely no trouble. Complete and simple directions are on every package.. McDonald's New York Chicago Salt Lake San Francisco BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices. Call at our Burial Clothes Department. Room 22 Bishop's Building. Prompt attention given all out of town orders. TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 jane Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month For the past TEN MONTHS. One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have You Seen It? THE Deseret News Progressive Dependable The Utah State National Bank The officera are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them. Officers Heser J. Grant, President. Cuaries W. Niscey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President Henry T. McEway, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Arvin C. Srronc, Assistant Cashier. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine, of which they will be glad to dispose at the price quoted be low: 12 Vols. Of 1915 Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1915 Leather Bound 2.00 1 Vol. Of 1918 Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols. Of 1919 Cloth Bound.. 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919 Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920 Cloth Bound.. 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920 Leather Bound 15c Extra for postage. All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Bound volumes of the Magazine make appropriate gifts. "DELIVERED EVERYWHERE" Special attention given to parcel post candy orders P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City TTITIA HY IN Mur DOS 7 i o A Watch for Our New "Mountaineer" Strong Seam Overalls, Auto Suits Kiddies Allovers For Boys, Youths and Men—they don't rip; wear like leather. FORTY YEARS OF FAIR DEALING 7 Considering quality— Co-op Furniture prices are lowest See our display of beautiful furniture SPECIAL PRICES DURING CONFERENCE CO-OP FURNITURE CO. 33 So. Main Street. First Door South of Z. C. M. I.: ~ an Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language—a language understood by everybody. Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"—the kind they make at Lumiere Studio W. N. Williams President A PHOTOGRAPH Phone Was. 2861 Clarissa S. Williams Secy. And Treas. H 6 Main St., Salt Lake ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTEA-DAY SAINTS Rooms 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.26 a Year—I5e Single Copy. VOLUME VIII MAY, 1921 NUMBER 5 L. D. S. GARMENTS The Sign of Quality GARMENTS If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. 2 Unbranded special, light wt., $1.65 15 Bleached spring needle gauze, 1.85 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached, 2.25 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached, 2.50 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached, 2.50 100 Cotton, heavy wt., bleached, 2.75 90 Cotton, heavy wt. Unbleached, $2.75 50 Lisle, gauze weight, bleached, 3.00 107 Merino wool, medium weight, 3.75 109 Merino wool, heavy weight, 4.75 65 Mercerized, It. Wt., bleached, 5.00 120 3/4 Australian wool, light wt., 6.00 The only approved Garments made with wide flaps at back, button holes for better fastening down front, and set in shoulder pieces te prevent sleeves Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 South Main Salt Lake City Those Who Work Outdoors Should have good body-building food to eat. If you exercise and eat the right food, you will sleep like a top and feel fit for anything. Big slices of ROYAL BREAD The bread that made mother quit baking just "hit the spot" after a hard day in the fields. This is the biggest food value you can get for the money, and plenty of it at every meal will absolutely mean a prime physical condition for anybody. Now is the time to call up your neighborhood grocer and tell him to send you a loaf of ROYAL BREAD. Royal Baking Co. The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop. $100.00 For this Beauty. Take 15 months to pay Daynes-Beebe Music Co OLDER THAN THE STATE 61-3-5 Main St Daynes President Capital $350,000.00 IT IS INFINITELY, BETTER —even if it costs a little more— to know that you get what you want, than to get what you don't want at any price. "DICKINSON'S" —the right weigh— CHOICE MEATS, FANCY AND STAPLE GROCERIES. SERVICE - QUALITY - CLEANLINESS - RELIABILITY. 680 East 2nd South Street. Hyland 60 We are in step with the declining Market. Latter-Day Saints Garments APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT Style Style 145 Pure silk, Price Price No. 111 Light weight, cotton..1.75. 120 Light weight, bleached.2.00 160 Medium weight, cotton..2.25 122 Medium weight, bleached 2.25 190 Heavy weight, cotton............ 2.75 No. 124 Heavy weight, bleached.$3.00 150 Extra white meres....4.00 110 Medium wool, mixed 4.00 116 Heavy wool, mixed.5.00 118 Extra heavy wool 6.50 WASATCH WOOLEN MILLS No. 657 Iverson Street Sult Lake City, Utah What Do Your Children Read? Guiding children in their reading is a big, vital problem. There are so man, wholesome, inspiring volumes that you cannot afford to let them read anything trashy or cLeap. Co-operate with our Juvenile Department. Let us suggest Books that are high class, Books that meet the personal tastes, adapted to various ages. Write for lists. Deseret Book Copany 44 East South Temple Street Send your hemstitching, accordian plaiting. Buttons or dry cleaning by parcels post. Quick Service. Alterations reasonable. Tailoring and dressmaking. Ladies Tailoring and Dressmaking 715 South 8th East Hy. 4152-W Salt Lake Salt Lake's Leading Opticians LOUIS A. JAMES and DONALD C. JAMES OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS Globe Optical Company East 2nd South (Walker Bank Bldg.) Salt Lake City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS MAY, 1921 Motherhood....... Byron Whitney 252 Chaplet of Mother and Grandmother Verse.............253 Wrapped in Wool.......Agnes Lovendahl 257 The "Mormon" Church Against Tobacco.... Will H. Brown 265 The Plan of Mesa Temple........... 266 Out of the World............G. Milton Babcock 271 Her Testimony.........Zella A. Johnson 282 About Tobacco  283 The Atonement.....John G. McQuarrie 284 Belated Joys.....Alveretta Engar 293 "From Zion to Jerusalem".............294 Reorganization of the General Board of the Relief Society... 296 Notes from the Field.............Amy Brown Lyman 297 Criminal Impropriety........ 303 A Resurrection Grace Ingles Frost 305 Editorial: The Old Order Changeth............306 What Does the Church Owe Me?...........2005 309 Entertainment Department...........Morag 311 ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who patronize us. COOP FURNITURE CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. ROYAL BREAD CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. DICKINSON'S, 680 East Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. WASATCH WOOLEN MILLS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. THE DESERET NEWS, Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Z. C. M. 1, Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah. GLOBE OPTICAL CO., East Second South, Salt Lake City, Utah. KEELEY'S, Salt Lake City, Utah. LUMIERE STUDIO, Salt Lake City, Utah, 6 Main St. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City, Utah. McDONALD CANDY CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. MRS. C. BYRON WHITNEY AND CHILDREN The grandmother, Mrs. Zina Smoot Whitney; great-grandmother, Mrs. Helen Mar Whitney; and two great-great-grandmothers, Mre. Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and Mrs. Vilate Kimball surround the poem on the next page. Elizabeth Ann Vilate Kimball Whitney Hie Mew MOTHERHOOD — Have you faced the grey dawn of a life to be, When the shadow of death lurked nigh, And out of the silence where a sweet form lay, Came the sound of a babe's first cry? Have you felt the firm grip of the mother's hand, And murmured, "God bless my wife!" And somehow felt that He would?—if not— Then what do you know of life? Have you stood in that moment when only God knew Of a life to be gained or lost? Have you thrilled with the thought of a joy to come, Yet trembled with fear of the cost? And later, when fellows were shaking your hand, And you felt like a peacock, vain, Did you think of the one who helpless lay Still paying the price in pain? And on through the years have you watched their course— How she stoops, while the child grows tall? Have you witnessed the thing called "Motherhood?" No?—then you've not lived at all. St. Louis, Mo. C. Byron Whitney. THE Relief Society Magazine Vor. VIII MAY, 1921 No. 5. A Chaplet of Mother and Grand- 'mother Verse THE GRANDMOTHER MUSES By Kate Thomas The locusts soon will blossom and bend their perfumed heads As if to watch the leafing of the growing pansy beds. The little stream will waken and come to bid good-day, Mingling its gentle music with the children's noise at play. But I—I shall be sleeping far away from all of these. I shall not smell the fragrance of the budding locust trees. The old gate will swing open—just as now—when Mary comes, With Sally and Virginia clinging tightly to her thumbs. The old floors will creak welcome to the patter of their feet, And the old walls will give answer to their voices high and sweet, But up there on the hillside, I shall have no wish to hark, And I shall not see the shining of their young eyes through the dark. There will not be a joyance of children at their play, Or merry high-pitched voices when they lay me deep away, But I shall know no sorrow—I shall rest me long and well; I shall sleep care-free and soundly, till I hear Heaven's matin bell. Be ye comforted, my loved ones; be ye happy, O my dears, As I cannot hear your laughter, so I cannot see your tears. 254 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE PIONEER MOTHER Maud Baggarley. Of the desert thou art pioneer, Turning from ease and mirth To wake serene and unafraid, The unblazed ways of earth. Thy thoughts unvoiced that reached from clod to star; Thy songs unsung, that ached and throbbed Within thy heart, In eyes of God, are better far Than frankincense and myrrh. For she who plays her part with courage high, Yet consecrates with prayers, Maybe through tears, The gift of self she lays upon the altar of years, Is chosen of the Lord, Her hands made strong, Ter life itself a song— Far heard triumphant song! Thus she, whose feet have pressed the sand Of every new and fearful land, Who follows her mate to the barren wild To bless, and succor, and bear his child; And where she cradles her little babe A fire is kindled, home is made, And though bleak the soil it yieldeth bread, And blossoms at length, and their souls are fed. ONE MOTHER OF MINE Bertha A. Kleinman I cannot strew your velvet bier, When you are sleeping there, And other hands must fondle yours, And plait your snowy hair. But I shall know, though far away, The halo on your brow, — Let others eulogize you then, I want to tell you now. I know your fore-score years and more, Their blest unwritten scope, How test and trial have teemed them full, But cannot daunt our hope. on "ak MOTHER AND GRANDMOTHER VERSE Boe IT know the harvest of your years, OW never idle day, c Seeps through the sundial of your age, Let others waste who may, T know the empty yearning years, ith all your treasures gone, he heartache and the loneliness, Yet only 800d lives on. I know the garden you have sown, So rich in every hue, Ow one by one the blooms have fled, And left' the thorns to you. No roses strewn upon your path, ave eased your Weary tread, Adversity has wrecked your plans, nd fagged your step the while, Time's hoary fingers blanched your hair— © cannot chill your smile. And though you Weary of its grey, He holds you by the hand. Tomorrow's mead you do not ask, To glean it if you could, Content with every passing day, To brim it UP with good, ut even there your face js turned, To greet the broader dawn, REMINISCENCE Mrs. Ida R. Alldredge Do we always remember to honor The fathers and mothers 8tTown old, 8 the shadows of evening close o'er them And night's darkness waits to enfold> 256 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Or did we forget how they've struggled Through poverty, sickness and care, With never a word of complaining That we lighter burdens might bear? When we look at their figures so drooping And their fingers so knotted and thin, And the light in their eyes slowly fading, Do we catch the lovelight from within? Oh, we cannot half pay them in measure, But at least we can help smooth their way, That their last years may be made the brighter From sunrise till close of the day. MOTHER Maude M. Cook Mother mine! Your loving smile, Is with me hour by hour. In memory still I see your face, Glow like a pure sweet flower; Alight with love and peace and cheer, Stamped with Heaven's sweet calm, So firm in faith, so rich in trust, So beautiful to look upon. The memory of you, Mother mine, Makes all life's pathways clear; The world is full of peace and love When you are there, my Mother dear. MOTHER'S DAY Mercy R. Stevens Alone in the house of a stranger today, I think of past Sundays—the second in May. I see the bright faces and hear the glad call, And view the gay flower, a gift from them all. Alone, but not sad, for I know that today They are thinking of Mother, be whom they may. And the love in their hearts, that is loyal I know, Is dearer to me than the flower's bright glow. I hear through the mail and the telephone call: "We're longing to see you, babies and all." My heart knows no wish but the deep, fervent prayer That God may surround them with his loving care. Wrapped in Wool By Agnes Lovendahl, with illustration by the author "Here I be, five years older than you—and I'll tell you right now my days of usefulness are not ended," Bathsheba Webster's tones were decided. "It's your own fault—nobody has to be laid on the shelf unless they want to be." Bathsheba's needle took sure, swift stitches in a white garment—a gift for the little bride around the corner. Bathsheba's hair was white, but it was waved and dressed beautifully. Her face was still firm, and her eyes gleamed with life and fun, A wrinkle—a dimple grown old—deepened occasionally. Her gray taffeta dress seemed to feel the responsibility of being just as rustling and "perky" as Bathsheba herself. "Why don't you quit being an old lady?" she continued. "Well," Grandma West rocked thoughtfully, "when everybody has decided you ain't a bit of use for nothing any more, taint much use as I can see." Grandma West made a strange contrast with the sprightly Bathsheba. Her gray hair was brushed straight back and plastered down with water. A little tight knob of it disfigured the back of her head. She wore a full, heavy skirt of rusty black, a dressing sacque of gray calico, and a blue and white checked kitchen apron. She looked several years older than Bathsheba, and seemed very tired. "I wish I'd died when I was still good for something," continued Grandma West, "about sixty's the right age to die. What is there I can do now?" A flash of resentment made her lean forward and shake her finger at Bathsheba. "What do I do? I live with Mattie. I have to listen to the noise of the children or sit in a lonely room. They feel I'm a burden. I'm deee, that's what, I'm dependent in my old age on my chilren." "And who's got a better right, I'd like to know?" queried Bathsheba indignantly. "After all you've done for them it's too bad if they can't do a wee mite for you." "It's easy for you to talk,"—a note of envy crept into Grandma's voice, "you've got Heber still, and he needs you. But me— sometimes I'd give anything to be with John!" "Annie, you've got no call to be wishing yourself dead. I reckn if the good Lord's left you here this long, he's got some- 258 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE thing for you to do. Have you done all the work in the temple for the names you've got?" There was a moment's silence. "Mattie thinks the temple work is too hard for me," Grandma said quietly. She felt a little ashamed to make the admission. "Why it isn't hard at all! I'd show Mattie a thing or two! If she'd spend a little more time supervising her children instead of bossing her mother, you would all be better off. Really, Annie, you'd think from the way she handles you that you were made of spun glass. 'Now children, run along, and don't annoy Grandma.' 'Grandma, don't you think you'd better lie down?' 'I think Grandma ought not to have anything but an egg this morning.' Now why are you wearing that ugly scarf around your shoulders this hot day?" "Mattie said—" "Mattie said you'd catch cold in the air, I suppose. And you undoubtedly will with that on. How long is it since you've had a romp with your grandchildren?. How long since you threw pillows and told them stories? How long since you did any sewing except mending? When did you entertain your friends? How long is it since you've spent a dollar without telling Mattie what it was for? You can't call your soul your own, Annie, and you'd ought to rebel." "Sometimes I think I'll say something, but I can't stand to hurt Mattie's feelings. She means for the best, Bathsheba." "Mattie's feelings, fiddlesticks! If folks can't mingle common sense with their feelings they ought to get hurt. Look now—she sold that house of yours after John died, and packed all the things you loved in her old attic, and—" "Sh-h-h!? Grandma West pointed to the slim young figure of her granddaughter running toward them across the lawn from the next house. "I don't care if Barbara is coming,' declared Bathsheba, "T'll finish what I have to say, and I just hope she hears it." Grandma shook her head, with pleading and warning mingled in her look. Bathsheba raised her voice. "That house belonged to you and you should have lived in it." Barbara paused by the porch! "What house, Aunt Bathsheba.?" "The house your mother sold, my dear. She shouldn't have done it. Your grandmother would have been happier there." "Oh, Aunt Bathsheba!" Barbara bounded onto the porch and perched herself on the arm of her grandmother's chair. "Think of how much work she'd have had to do keeping it up! And over home we do everything for her." WRAPPED IN WOOL 259 "Exactly. That is the very trouble. You've wrapped her in wool and carefully placed her on the shelf." "But surely she's much happier with us when we all Jove her so!" cried Barbara as she patted her grandmother's shoulder, "Love her—yes. But does one of you need her? Not one." "Would you have Grandma stay in that lonely old house— all—all alone?" "She could at least have it arranged to suit herself and feel tree to have her friends call. And then," Bathsheba paused and smiled, then bent her head over her work. "I don't see why she would have to be alone. It is my opinion that Annie ought to get married." "Mercy me!" Grandma threw up her hands in horror. "Oh, I reckon you could find a beau—if you'd spruce up a bit—get some Presentable clothes and curl your hair. Now you needn't smile, Babs, your grandma was fully as popular as you in her day. Used to have the young fellows tagginy round till her pa went near frantic. Always had her program filled at socials—two or three for each dance and she'd tell them she'd dance with the one that got there first. She was a pretty thing, Annie was!" "Oh Grandma's blushing!" teased Barbara, "And it's your Ma's fault your grandma ain't sought after now, and you can tell her [ said so," added Bathsheba, "Oh!" Barbara gasped in sudden Remembrance. "Mother sent me to get Grandma to come and have her dress fitted and IT almost forgot!" "Dress? Now that's the thing!" cried Bathsheba, "It's a new black silk," explained Grandma proudly, "for the Old Folks' Party next Friday." "Old Folks' Party—" a gleam of mischief suddenly appeared in Bathsheba's eyes. "Glory, Hallelujah!": Bathsheba jumped up and dropped her sewing into the chair. "I'll come right along and see about that dress. It's a shame to have it black silk, but if it is bought I suppose it is bought and nothing can be done. But maybe I can tell Mattie how to touch it up a bit " The next Friday was delightfully warm and sunny and Lib. Erty Park began to fill early with old folks. How childishly eager some of them were for their party! Some hobbled feebly, leaning on the arm of a boy scout guide, some stepped about "real The ladies of the Relief Society were all bustle and stir, setting tables, decorating, cutting cakes. Automobiles threaded 260 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE their way carefully to the band stand and unloaded their precious cargoes of old people. Old Folks Day! Grandma felt a thrill of pleasure at being remembered and honored. As she hurried with Bathsheba and Barbara from the graveled path to the lawn threading between busy groups, Grandma was pleasantly conscious of the rustle of her new black satin. She was conscious, too, of the pretty light scarf which floated from her shoulders in a lazy June breeze. "I declare I feel most young again," she exclaimed chuckling, her chill fingers pressing white spots on flushed cheeks, her eyes sparkling up at Barbara. "T should hope you would," laughed Bathsheba. "Why you look like a bride." "Don't be foolish Bathsheba," said Grandma gently, but she couldn't help remembering the glimpse she had had of her hair—her dull stringy hair miraculously fashioned by Barbara into a soft frame for her face. "A curling iron and a hair net would improve many a dowdy frump," continued Bathsheba, undisturbed by Grandma's previous rebuke. "And a touch of color like that bit of pink at your throat—well, it does set off one's natural beauty." "Tut, tut! What a tease you are!" Barbara placed chairs comfortably in the shade for them. "Now you sit right here," she said, "while I go to help with the lunch. By and by there will be a band and singing." Grandma sat down obediently. "Sit down, indeed!' exclaimed Bathsheba, smiling in amused tolerance. ''What do you think I came to the party for? To be a wall flower? I'll just walk around a bit. Heber will be down presently and I'd best make good use of my opportunities to flirt with all my old beaux before he appears." Barbara laughed and sped away. "Take good care of Grandma," she called over her shoulder. Grandma's eyes searched the crowd wistfully. There was no one in sight that she knew. At the last Old Folks' Party she had attended, John had been with her. Now—loneliness crept into her heart. Just being here brought back the years with such poignant vividness, She wanted to be young again—young! "Let's walk around and meet folks,' suggested Bathsheba. "I declare there's old Eph Williams who used to be such a cutup. Do you remember his Irish jig and his step dances? He was the one who could step it off lively! He's got a cane now and he's all crippled up with rheumatism, but I reckon he's as lively as ever in his heart. And Annie, he's been a widower— let's see, when did Mary die? It was in—yes, he's been a WRAPPED IN WOOL 261 widower going on for ten years. I'm a good mind to tell him its time to reform." "Oh Bathsheba—" "Come on!" I think I'll just stay here. You go see him. I'll just wait." Grandma felt as embarrassed as a girl, and she was unutterably lonely for—just her own John. So Bathsheba left her, promising to return with Eph. "I just can't—can't stand it!" Grandma did not speak aloud, but she clenched her hands. Memories were flooding to her. She felt she must get away from this merry, chattering group. Unnoticed among the fringes of the crowd she scuttled away—her scarf fallen unheeded from her soft hair, her eyes startlingly keen and bright in their dark hollows, like polished stones in ebony. She went blindly, like a person in a tunnel seeking for the light. She felt that her emotions must soon stifle her. A kindly policeman helped her across the main driveway, and she hurried on. Here there was no crowd of old people— just a few children. She sighed as if relieved of an oppressive weight. Then she smiled at her foolishness, and fumbled in her bag for a handkerchief. She carefully wiped a spot that a tear had made on her black satin., She wandered through the playground—wishing she had the youth and joy of these children. She dreaded the thought that her life was to continue useless, unappreciated. Watching her chance, she recrossed the drive and climbed the bridge to the island. She would just sit by the water side. Alone and think it all out. On the bridge she bought a bunch of blue violets from a dirty, grinning youngster who had a basket of little nosegays to sell to the old folks. Grandma stood quite still, staring through and beyond the soft petals on which her fingers rested caressingly. "Ts there anything else, ma'am?" "Dear, dear!' Grandma roused with a start. "But of course, my dear, that was when I was quite young!" How oddly he stared at her! She must have said something wrong again. "I was remembering old times—and thinking I'd not feel so lonesome, if I'd be wearing violets. Somehow I can't get used to his being dead. Seems like he's just stepped into the next room, or maybe round the corner, Today, now, I keep thinking I've lost him in the crowd and by and by we'll find each other. There, laddie, don't old folks get queer notions?" She smiled apologetically, patted him and went on across 262 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the bridge. He started after her, shrugged his shoulders and turned away. "Well, well, aren't you the smart lassie, now, tripping off al! Alone and well nigh knocking an old man over!" Grandma started. Confronting her, very dignified with high silk hat and patriarchal beard, stood that young rascal, that cut-up, Eph Williams. She stood staring at him without speaking. Had Bathsheba sent him. To follow her? Indignation brought bright spots of color to her cheeks and a gleam of anger to her eyes. 'Gently he took her arm. "What do you say, Annie—eh—if we have a chat here by the lake? Things ain't nowise near ready for the dinner, and there's such a jam by the pavilion you couldn't find your way nohow."' "Did Bathsheba send you to find me?" "She just told me you were here. I'd been planning for months—" "Well, I really must go," cried Grandma, drawing away. "They'll be looking for me, Mattie and Barbara. They'll be worried most dreadful." "Shucks now, that don't sound like the Annie I used to know. You had a mind of your own then, I'll be bound." He sighed in reminiscence. ''Remember the dance at Social Hall— the night you and I went for a walk—and the moon was still and white just above the mountain peak? You didn't hesitate to speak your mind then! Jing, I thought I could never love another—after you said 'no'—" "Dear, dear!' interrupted Grandma hastily. "I must go— yes, really I must!",;: "You'll not get a chance!" The old man's mouth closed with determination and he blocked her way.. 'Come now, it won't hurt a mite to sort of talk over old times and old friends. Annie," his voice dropped, "I've been awful lonely—" Awful jionely! So the sociable, noisy Eph Williams was old, too, and lonely! Grandma understood, and she tarried, sitting primly straight on a bench by the water's edge. Eph Williams looked at her and smiled. "By gracious, Annie, you're looking pretty today!" Grandma blushed. Why couldn't she behave like a sedate little old lady with several grandchildren nearly grown up? She ought to rebuke him with dignity and hurry away to the protection of Mattie. But she didn't. The old man saw her confusion and talked about the party, and good times they had had in the old days, and of what they were both doing now. GRANDMOTHER WEBSTER COUNSELS INSUBORDINATION FOR GRANDMA WEST 264 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "So you're living with Mattie, eh? Well, the boys wanted me to come with them after their Ma died. Not me! I reckon I've got some spunk left! I ain't no invalid as yet to be waited on. Wanted me not to do anything, as active as I've always been! Can you think of it? I tell you I have a great old time tending the chicks and working in my little old garden!" "But how do you manage," asked Grandma, ''with the cooking and the mending?" Eph laughed and clapped his knee. "Can't say I'm powerful successful—and sometimes I do swear, Annie. I reckon I'm toughened to most anything though." "You'd ought to hire a girl—" ' "A girl! What would one of these flip, painted young critters know about an old man's ways? Say Annie—it's you I need—most terribly. I've plenty to keep the wolf from the door, and you've no ties—couldn't we—wouldn't you—Gosh ding, Annie, it's been a long time since I proposed!" Grandma was on her feet. "Really I—" "T know you'll always love John best—you told me that long ago, Annie. But couldn't we make the rest of the journey a wee bit less lonely for each other? 'You'd mean a lot to me. And we could do temple work for our folks that's dead—seems to me God meant we'd ought to be of some use while we live." After all, who really needed her most? She was only a burden to Mattie—and hadn't John said when they were so young and happy together—"If I die before you, Annie, you must'nt waste your life wearying for me. Make some good man happy—be useful in the world." Yes, perhaps John would wish it. But Mattie—!": Grandma smiled—that sudden light smile of hers. "Mattie would say we had both gone completely foolish." "Hang what Mattie would say. I'll handle Mattie!" Eph braced his shoulders and set his jaw. Grandma sighed—contentedly—for that was the kind of protection she liked—it was not protection from' pity. She slipped her hand into his arm. "Tf you can handle Mattie—yes," she said. "Tt's none of Mattie's business!" "Oh!" cried Grandma—but she gloried in the emphasis. Eph Williams sat in the kitchen rocking contentedly and watching his wife, who was frosting a chocolate cake. "You'll likely have a terrible spell of indigestion from this, Eph," she warned him. WRAPPED IN WOOL F. 265 "Don't tell me about it before-hand," he laughed, rising and putting his arm around her shoulders. "T feel as proud as a bride today," cried Grandma, her cheeks glowing. "Think of having Bathsheba and Heber, and Mattie and all the children over to dinner! Why, it's really living again!" THE MORMON CHURCH AGAINST TOBACCO We are told by Will H. Brown, superintendent Press Bureau No-Tobacco League, Los Angeles, that: "The slogan of every auxiliary organization of the 'Mormon,' or Latter-day Saints Church, is: "We stand for the non-use and the non-sale of tobacco." That the fight is already bearing fruit is seen in the large number of "Mormon" store-keepers who are refusing to longer carry the weed in stock in any form. Here is a sample of reports being received at headquarters in Salt Lake City, in ever-increasing numbers—this from Jesse M. Smith, superintendent Y. M. M. I. A. Of the Snowflake stake in Arizona: "Since December first the sale of tobacco has stopped in all towns in this stake, with the exception of three. Two of these _have only a very small population of our people." Here is an instance showing how many users of tobacco look-at the situation, reported by Lorenzo Toulson, manager of the Union Mercantile Co., Smithfield, Utah, which firm has discontinued the sale of tobacco: "I have had many tell me they wish that they could not buy it anywhere, then they would quit using it." How Cowley, Wyoming, disposed of tobacco is told in this Associate Press dispatch of January 25th: "Smoking and chewing of tobacco has been banned here. The action resulted from a campaign started by the "Mormon" Church. Merchants agreed to stop the sale of tobacco. A funeral procession, mourners and two bands escorted a coffin containing the corpse of Lady Nicotine to a funeral pyre, where the casket was burned. Many sincere mourners wept, while the Reverend R. A. Evans delivered the funeral oration." As the "Mormon" Church auxiliaries number 300,000 members their attitude on the tobacco question, with its practically perfect system of organization, means much in the fight against tobacco." The Plan of Mesa Temple We are presenting to our readers this month the eagerly expected sketch of the temple to be erected in the near future in Mesa, Arizona. Three of our leading architectural firms competed in sealed contest, and the firm of Young & Hansen won out with the beautiful sketch which accompanies this article. The temple proper rests in simple yet exquisite harmonious lines on a basement story containing all the auxiliary quarters such as rest rooms, cloak rooms, recorder's office and general utility rooms, these quarters making, as it were, a pedestal from which springs the rising columns and wall of the sacred rooms where only ordinance work shall be performed. This basic suggestion recalls not only the pedestal support given to the statues and columns and art temple of ancient Greece, it brings a thought of the vast terraced courts, rising one upon another, which supported in dignity the crowning splendor of the Jewish temple proper, as it glittered and sparkled in the rising sun's rays, with its superb Solomon's Porch and two carved pillars, the Gate Beautiful rising in the foreground. The Jewish temple, like our own, contained rooms for ritualistic services, for the Priesthood, in addition to the morning and evening services, while the baptismal font, used for priestly offices still suggested the later uses indicated in the Savior's suggestion, and in Paul's teachings concerning salvation for the dead. All that was foreshadowed in the Hebrew temple is fulfilled in our temples of today. We give here the architects' description of the condemn which they sought to express in the building sketch submitted by them: DESCRIPTIONS ACCOMPANYING STUDIES FOR TEM-. PLE AT MESA, ARIZONA. Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints December, 1920. In presenting studies in temple composition for your consideration we do so with full appreciation of the potentialities of the problem; with much careful and painstakirlg application we have arrived at a solution which we are presenting as our conception of the problem. We have proceeded in a most severely truthful manner and form not desiring to detract in the minutest detail from a very simple outline by the addition of irrelevent and possibly misleading embellishments. Young and Hansen, Architects. SKETCH OF MESA TEMPLE 268 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The problem, as expressed in the one word "Temple" is one of the most intricate yet interesting which has been presented to us for solution. One of our insistent queries is: What is there in constructive expression peculiar to and expressive of the Temple—the Latter-day Saints Temple—and in what essentials does it contrast with the world-accepted notion of temple expression? Close analysis of our temple needs has forced a somewhat radical departure from the world's conception of a temple or cathedral which has been arrived at largely through the process of the evolution of man, and to serve his temporary religious requirements, and has no relation to our divinely revealed program of work requiring accomplishment. We also recognize in our present day problem a decidedly more complex conception than anything of even a similar nature heretofore conceived, although adhering strictly to fundamental needs and spiritual requirements. The nature of this temple thought compels a recognition architecturally of two major divisions; the first of which is utility and the second, beauty in architectural expression, without unnecessarily retracing footsteps but will otherwise discover the maximum of convenience with the minimum of effort in a most pleasing and appealing manner. In the study under consideration the utmost endeavor has been directed to maintaining the proper balance between the temple proper and of the contributing factors to the service. It seems desirable to eliminate from within the temple walls proper all elements not directly required in some phase of the actual temple service. This is accomplished by placing the temple itself on a base of room-space which contains all rest rooms, cloak rooms, etc., thus permitting the temple proper to tower loftily above forming a simple architectural shaft possessing respectful dignity and exciting sacred reverence. Low relief panels at the four corners of the shaft are intended to portray the gathering of Israel from four corners of the earth in the last dispensation of the fulness of time. Throughout the composition both in plan and in elevation, as well as by the method of presentation by lines, our watchword has been simplicity; simplicity without the loss of dignity or of reverential content, thus lending to the whole study a most desirable element—that of truth. As down the path of ages man has ever striven to more perfected existence, consciously or unconsciously, by adding little upon little to the perfection of his original environment so we have endeavored to express our conception in these architectural forms which are the modern accepted ideals of perfection in architectural attainment. The element of seclusion for thoughtful meditation and THE PLAN OF MESA TEMPLE 269 spiritual communion is given suitable expression in the entrance portals which further adds to the thought of unity so desirable and prevalent throughout the composition. Generally stated the various appointments are grouped around a grand stair hall centrally located which extends between the main temple entrance and the ordinance rooms. The plan also provides a direct passage from the celestial rooms to the dressing rooms below. From an intermediate landing of this stair-case the first ordinance room is entered to the right. The remaining ordinance rooms follow successively without any additional long stair-way such as usually punctuates the progress of temple work in most of our temples. Flanking the main entrance on the right and left respectively are located the locker rooms and the assembly room, both are. Under the general supervision of the door keeper, but, owing to their location, cannot provide any annoying element in the conduct of his regular duties. Also the arrangement will be noted to be such that the assembly room may be used as an overflow in the event that a number of companies are to be served on the same day. This contingent can further be provided for in the entrance lobby where two additional companies may be stationed preliminary to entering upon temple work. After passing the door keeper, the recorder's appointment may be found to the left off the spacious lobby and upon entering the temple proper, immediately in front of the door keeper; the dressing room accommodations are located off the corridor leading to the font room. From here the stairway leads to the ordinance rooms as above mentioned. The Font is given a rear central location immediately under the celestial room, FONT ROOM The suggested location of the Font room we hope is justified by the excellent day-lighting and ventilation made possible, located as it is with eastern exposure, it will receive direct morning sunlight and outside ventilation as also will the dressing rooms to the right and left respectively. By the relative location of the various appointments at the font, candidates are provided direct lines of passage from place to place without the usual crossing and resulting confusion. Floor drains are provided to catch the dripping water as candidates leave the font. This arrangement permits a constant and uninterrupted flow of candidates to and from the font. 270 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE STAIR HALL The stair hall is designed to serve more than the purely utilitarian accommodation of the stairway and passage. It suggests the story of man from earthly birth to the regions of celestial glory and reflects the successive stages of progression. From the temple entrance where this story best reveals itself may also be seen, through a glass screen at the end of the passage, the font room and the font suggesting the sepulchre of the Savior, while above and at the end of the stairway hall stands forth the portal to the celestial room. The grand stairway may be said to typify the ever upward pathway which terminates in celestial glory. AUXILIARY APPOINTMENTS The assembly room, cloak rooms, dining rooms, laundry, kitchen, communication corridors, children's room, women's work room, linen room, and other auxiliary appointments are provided in suitable proximity and relative juxtaposition without the temple walls thereby eliminating undesirable fumes and other disturbing elements from the temple proper. Off the children's play room are provided toilet rooms and a spacious court in which children may find amusement without the possibility of their straying beyond the limits of easy supervision. Other open well lighted courts on the north, east, and south sides of the building provide the privacy so desirable to the work conducted within the edifice. Dressing rooms are provided with fifty individual dressing compartments having two locker accommodations for two companies to pass through in close succession, while the entrance hall may be used in emergency for the stationing of additional companies awaiting the opportunity to go forward. SUMMARY As stated in the beginning of these notes, the foregoing aims at being only general in its scope. Every detail or appointment could be greatly enlarged upon, but not desiring to rehearse in too much detail what the floor plans so plainly set forth, we respectfully submit them all hoping that our efforts have produced a solution which, if completely understood and executed, will provide an edifice complete in its appointments, and the result will be a distinct addition to the sacred class of Church structures which we call our temples. ~ Out of the World By G. Milton Babcock (Continued. ) Walter swayed unsteadily for a moment. It was not enough for him to have had the accident to his bicycle, and the consequent walk; he must in addition lose his job, and that, too, without a hearing! Turning abruptly on his heel, with not a word of explanation, he stalked out of the bank, the gaze of the somewhat astonished cashier following him. For a time, Walter hardly knew what to do. Finally, he decided to take his wheel to the bicycle shop, and then hunt for a new job—the latter, he knew, would be a hard task, as he would be called upon for references. The bicycle man agreed to stand half the expense of a new tire—something that Walter had not looked for—and it served as a rift in his clouds of despair and gave him courage to start the search for employment. All day long he tramped the streets, at first looking for a position in his own field, but toward the end, he sought any kind of work. The market was glutted, hundreds of others, many more capable than he, were also looking for work. In the few instances where a stenographer was wanted, there were a dozen or more applicants. Once he thought he had a position within his grasp, but when he gave as reference the bank, the man immediately telephoned and learned that Walter had been discharged for "failure to report for duty." Again without one word of inquiry as to the cause of his failure to report, Walter was refused the privilege of working. It is said that 'Misery loves company ' so after the business houses had closed for the day, Walter sauntered along to Hogan's Alley, the rendezvous of men like himself—out of work—forced to seek such environment as the Alley offered for such poor comfort as they could wring from it, spending their few remaining pennies in the process. Here, at least, one would not starve so long as he could raise a nickel for a glass of beer which brought with it the "free lunch" privilege. Walter had never tasted beer, but he felt a strong temptation to try it for the sake of its effects—perhaps it would cause him to forget his misery as it had done for so many men. As he was about to enter a saloon, however, a miserable wreck of humanity staggered out, blotched, sodden face, trembling hands, and with 272 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Continuation of "Out of the World," some already in type... Mind any idea he might have had to indulge in a pastime the effect of which was such as this! Turning aside, he entered a pool room to watch the games. Here were gathered principally young men, most of whom could not afford the penny per cue, and the money for cigarettes. About the only thing they had in abundance was—breath for swearing! Walter purchased a package of "Sweet Caps" (during the day he had returned to the bank and received the wages he had earned the previous week) and promptly lit up. Presently, things becoming quiet in fhe pool room, he leisurely made his way to the rear of the place, where a poker game was going on in full blast. One big, sharp-faced man was losing heavily, and it did not improve his already repelling countenance. Savagely he bid, and almost invariably he lost. Walter edged his way behind the man. He had never played himself, and seldom watched, but he knew the game fairly, well. At length the player in question drew a royal flush and started out with a modest bid, intending to raise it higher and higher and lead his opponents along. An exclamation burst from Walter's lips. To players and onlookers alike it was a clear revelation that the player over whose shoulder Walter was. Looking had drawn a good hand. With a terrible oath, the man arose from his chair and made for Walter.' Walter tried to pacify him, but the general evening's losses, together with a generous quantity of whiskey, had so upset the gambler that he would listen to no excuses, but struck Walter a powerful, though fortunately a glancing, blow. Stung to desperation, Walter seized a large bottle from a table nearby and dealt his assailant a murderous blow over the head. Without even a groan, the man sank to the floor, blood gushing from his nose and mouth, In the excitement that followed Walter managed to slip unobserved from the room. Dazedly he found his way into the street, but one thought in mind—to get away. Instinctively he made for the railroad yard, and to his great relief a freight train was about to pull out. As comfortably as he might, he adjusted himself in the coal at one end of the gondola, and presently the train started—goodness knew where to! Dimly he recognized the lights of the Green Island station, and thus knew that the freight was bound northward, but his head ached so that it made little difference to him in which direction he moved—for all he cared, the freight could travel straight up to the stars—stars so much like those he had seen when the gambler struck him that they appeared very familiar and near, as he lay on his back watching them twinkle past. He tried to sleep, but always the phantom of the brakeman hovered above
OUT OF THE WORLD 273
and awoke him with a start whenever he dozed off. Once he grimly laughed at the thought that if the freight train was wrecked and he was so unfortunate as to be flung headlong into the infernal regions, he would be able at least to "bring his own coal!" For what seemed an age, he rode, the pounding of his aching head ever keeping tune with the thunderous clank of the wheels on the rails. Once, in passing by a station, he thought he could read the words "Mechanicville," but was not sure. At last, the brakes gripped—steadily, persistently—and when the train came to a stop in a freight yard, Walter decided he had ridden far enough. Cautiously he made his way toward the lights of the station, and to his joy found that it was marked "Fort Edward!" He would now be able to go to his Uncle John's, a few miles away. Dark was the road, and strange the shadows that flitted menacingly about him as he struck out into the country; but then came the remembrance of One above—up among the night lights—who would shield and protect him if he but asked: And ask he did—fervently, reverently!
VII
Gray dawn streaked the eastern sky as Walter timidly rapped on the door of his uncle's house. "Why Walter, what brings you back so quick, and at this hour of the morning?" greeted his uncle in surprise. "We've just got up." Briefly Walter told his troubles, and asked if he might stay with them while he tried to get work. "You're welcome to what we've got, Walter, and we'll do all we can to help you. You've been in a pretty bad scrape, though, and I would suggest that you write some friend in Troy right away and ask him to find out how the man is. You might have killed him for all—" "Do you really think so, Uncle John?' interposed Walter, aghast. "Yes, my boy, a bottle's a pretty bad thing to hit anyone with—but let's hope for the best," he added cheerfully, perceiving that Walter was thoroughly alarmed. His aunt was willing to do her part, and the girls were delighted to have a companion of Walter's age and good nature in their usually quiet home. After several days of anxious waiting, Walter received a reply to his letter, stating that his late antagonist had not been injured much, and that the proprietor of the joint had seen to it that the affair was hushed up.
274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"I'm certainly glad, Walter, that it's turned out all right," commented his uncle as he handed back the letter. "I hope it will be a lesson to you," he added significantly. "Yes, Uncle John, I feel that there are some great changes going to take place in my life from now on," replied Walter, thoughtfully. "I certainly am going to turn over a new leaf." The next morning he started out for the paper mill with his uncle. As they approached the plant, Walter's eyes opened in wonder at the immense pile of pulpwood stored in the yard. "You see, Walter," explained his uncle, "most of this wood comes from Canada, although there is quite a bit from Maine and other New England States. They chop a tree down, saw it into four-foot lengths, or else into eighteen-inch lengths, and peel the bark off. Then they load it into a box car." "What kind of wood is it?" interrogated Walter. "Spruce; it is a soft wood, and seems to be the best for making paper." "How do they make such big piles?" "Well, when the wood gets here, if it is in four-foot lengths it goes into that pile in the yard; if it is in shorter lengths it goes to the wood bins. That big crane there is what piles it so high. I'll show you how it all works sometime." Going into the office, his uncle introduced Walter to the chief clerk. Fortunately, they were in need of a stenographer, and in lieu of a letter of recommendation, the chief clerk accepted the introduction from Walter's uncle as sufficient. "For once in my life I am lucky!" Walter exulted. "There's nothing like a good start. I only hope I'll make good." In a short time, Walter was thoroughly acquainted with his new position and surroundings. He liked his work and it paid him fairly good wages. His uncle's family were glad to have him with them, and the girls, Elizabeth and Dorothy, never tired of his company. He was always doing something to make them forget the toilsome hours they spent in the shirt factory; in fact, Walter felt, at times, that he was a bigger kid than ever, for he had been denied so many of the jollities of boyhood that even though he was now "grown up," yet the desire for play was keen and compelling within him. One evening the Episcopal minister called, and persuaded Walter to renew his former activities in the church. However, what Walter had learned from the old Captain had weakened his faith somewhat. Then, too, his Uncle John had pointed out that the church had become a one-day proposition; that instead of leading out in the every-day affairs of life, it had withdrawn into its shell and had not kept abreast of the times; that its creeds, formulated centuries ago to suit conditions then existing,
OUT OF THE WORLD 275
were doing service today; and that the great discoveries and inventions, the wonderful scientific truths that had been revealed to the world, had come about in spite of, rather than by reason of, the church. Indeed, were not science and religion opposed? In addition, the reciting of the Creed, the listening to the same Prayers and Litanies Sunday after Sunday, seemed to become monotonous to Walter, and a spirit of restlessness that he could not quite explain, a doubting influence, often came over him. His daily prayers had been neglected for some time—ever since he left home. It is said that people never think of God except when in trouble; but, on the other hand, there are certain souls who do not think of him when in trouble. Often they feel resentful toward him for the calamities which they feel he could have in some way turned aside, and feel that they have been deserted and left to struggle against too great odds. Walter was inclined that way. John Nelson, like his brothers, took little interest in the church. To him, in addition to having become a one-day affair, its teachings were inconsistent—the ministers constantly dwelling upon man's responsibility before God, but saying not a word of his rights on earth. As he told Walter: "If the ministers would see that their congregations got sufficient physical food and recreation, they would have an easier time getting them to take the spiritual food and glory. When you and your mother were starving, what practical benefit was your church to you?" His uncle's words made a deep impression upon Walter, but the faith of his mother was too well grounded in him to cause him to assume an indifferent attitude toward his church. His determination to remain steadfast was warmly seconded by Elizabeth—an Episcopal herself, but who, nevertheless, reserved an independence of thought on matters religious that commanded little short of admiration from Walter. Among the workmen in the mill, whom Walter was obliged to meet in his daily work, was a young man of his own age, Louis Guiles, a checker in the shipping department. He was of medium height, dark hair and blue eyes, and of a pleasing, quiet disposition; Walter and he warmed to each other the first time they met. Often they walked to the car line together. One afternoon, as they were passing a pool hall on their way from work, Walter suggested: "Louis, let's go in and shoot a game of pool. It's been so long since I was in a pool hall that I guess I have almost forgotten the game." "No, Walt, I haven't got time to stop tonight; and besides, I've never played a game of pool in my life. I don't think it's
276 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
best for a fellow to go into those places. Just look, the air is blue with smoke, and, by the sound, its 'blue' with something worse than smoke! If I had a pool table home, I wouldn't mind playin' the game; but in pool rooms, nothin' doing!" "Gracious! Lu, you're a regular preacher. Pastor Green couldn't do as good himself. Come, if you're so sour on pool, have a 'cig' anyway, and make a little 'blueing' for yourself. By the way, though, I've never seen you smoke—how about it?" "Nope, you'll have to excuse me on that, too, Walt; thanks just the same." "Well, first thing I know you'll be coming to work with a Prince Albert, and your collar turned hind side 'fore." "I'll tell you, Walt, come up to the house tomorrow afternoon and I'll tell you something about why I don't do these things. I might say right now, though, that you know as well as I that tobacco ain't good for you—it's got nicotine, an awful poison, and —"; "Of course, I know that; but, Lu, tea and coffee are bad also—contain poisons as you say—but I'll bet that you drink them every day. Didn't I see you with a bottle of cold tea just this noon?" "Yes, I'll admit you did; but I haven't drunk coffee in a long time, and I'm tryin' to give up tea." "Geewillikers! There must be something behind all this. I sure'll be up tomorrow to see you and your folks—I suppose they are as extraordinary as you are. I smoke, drink tea and coffee, and once in a while a glass of beer. Here's your car—so long!" That evening, as his uncle and Elizabeth were rocking on the front porch, Walter suddenly turned and inquired regarding Louis Guiles. "Guiles is a peculiar chap," answered his uncle. "He acts different from most men. He has no use for gossip or a dirty story—something that can't be said for most of the men at the mill. When it comes to pitchin' horseshoes with the boys, or something like that, though, he's a crackerjack. Why, what about him?" "Nothing, except that he has invited me up to his home for tomorrow, and I believe I'll go, but wish some of you would go along with me, as it will be a little strange for me in Glens Falls. "Tell you what let's do, papa; let's all take a walk up there tomorrow," suggested Elizabeth. "Nothin' doing," answered her father. "I will want to work the corn a little, and, besides, I doubt if the fellow would appreciate our all piling in on him unexpected. You and Walter go along if you want to; you never do get enough walking—
OUT OF THE WORLD 277
stuck in the shirt mill all day and ride back and forth to work on the car." Early the next afternoon Elizabeth and Walter started out on the four-mile walk, none of the rest caring to accompany them. On the way, the subject of religion came up for discussion. "Walter, you've always been an Episcopal, haven't you?" began Elizabeth. "Yes; why?" "Well, so have I, but I'm tired of it!" she blurted out. "It's nothing but money, money all the time; I get so sick and tired of their asking for my hard-earned pennies that I could almost quit going to church. And now, you know, Mr. Green wants his salary raised, claiming that he has received a call from the Glens Falls church. I overheard some of the vestrymen talking that we would have to raise his salary, as he was building up the church, but as for me, I would be glad if they got rid of him, as his sermons are so dry and are more for the folks who are able to buy the expensive pews up front. I suppose I hadn't ought to talk this way, but I can't help it. It seems a shame that salvation has got to be mixed up with money, like everything else. You know, Walter," she went on warmly, "that the biggest thing being sold today and which has the largest number of salesmen is the gospel of Christ. Christ didn't do that way—", "Of course," interrupted her companion, "it wasn't necessary for him to demand money. He had no one to look after but himself, and by his miraculous power he could feed not only himself, but the multitude. And even if he had accepted money, you know the 'laborer is worthy of his hire.' " "Maybe you are right, Walter; but it does seem to me that salvation should not be dependent upon money. The way Reverend Green is doing makes me think that, so far as he is concerned, we can either pay him more money or lose our souls' salvation. He is supposed to know the way to heaven, but, like those new-fangled gas meters, he won't work unless you put a quarter in the slot. I would give anything to meet someone who would talk religion to you without eyeing up your pocketbook!" "But, Elizabeth, how would a minister live if you didn't pay him? Reverend Green has gone through college and educated himself probably at a great expense. He's married and has a family and needs all the money he can get, which is little enough at best. I'll admit, though, that I am getting tired of the same prayers, the same chants, and the same sermons, Sunday after Sunday. I wish we could have more of a variety.
278 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
However, let's drop the subject, as I don't think it's really the proper thing for us to do to speak so disrespectful of our church." "I don't care," retorted Elizabeth. "I'm in the habit of thinking for myself, just like papa. Somehow or other, I think ministers should be more like Peter and James—fishermen; or, like Paul—tentmakers. How a man could do it nowadays and preach too I don't know. You may not know it," she confided, "but I pray as well as I know how for help on religion, and I feel that, one of these days, I am going to know more about it." Beaming forth anew from her countenance was that look of trust and hope which Walter had noticed once before when she had spoken on the subject of prayer, her figure walking proudly erect, and her luxuriant, dark brown tresses winnowing in the summer breeze.. "How different she is from most of the factory girls!—girls from whom the erect carriage and bloom of youth have been robbed by the ceaseless grind of the shirt-making machines," he thought. Tired in body, but refreshed in spirit, they reached the Guiles home. Louis, who answered the bell, was glad to see them, and introduced them to his father and mother, a couple well along in years; his sisters, Florence and Hattie, in their late teens; and to Messrs. Lafayette and Maxwell, two well-developed specimens of manhood, one somewhat older than the other, whom Walter took to be the beaux of the girls. The afternoon wore pleasantly on, and as it was quite a fad to show the wonders of post-card albums, Walter became busily engaged in looking through one belonging to Florence. At length, they came to a card showing a hill rising abruptly from the lowlands. At the bottom of the card was the inscription: "Hill Cumorah, Palmyra, N. Y." "What Hill is that, Miss Guiles?" he asked. "Why, in that hill were found golden plates containing the history of the Indians," she answered.. "Is that so?" exclaimed Walter, greatly interested. "Why, when I went to school, they told me that there was absolutely no record anywhere of the Indians. Of course, I knew that 'Indians' was not the proper name for them, they being called that because Columbus supposed he had discovered India, but I did not suppose that anyone claimed to have a real history of them." "Mr. Lafayette can tell you more about that than I. Suppose you go over and talk with him," she suggested. "Mr. Lafayette, he wants to know about the golden plates and the Hill Cumorah," she announced. "Yes, I am very much interested, "added Walter. "Have
OUT OF THE WORLD 279
you a copy of the book with you?" he inquired, seating himself on the couch beside the gentleman. "Yes, I have," replied the latter, reaching into his pocket and pulling forth a book of ordinary size. Walter glanced curiously at the title, "Book of Mormon." "That's a funny name," he thought, "but I suppose they just gave it that name to make it a good seller." Then spoke the other: "This book was given to a young man by the name of Joseph Smith by an angel called Moroni. Several men saw this angel and the plates. In a vision. I'll read what they said if you don't mind." At the mention of "angel," Walter half rose from his seat. Startled to the depths. 'My heavens, they're 'Mormons'! He almost thought aloud. Glancing across the room he saw Elizabeth in earnest conversation with Mr. Maxwell. His only thought was to get away as quickly as possible. To think that he had brought Elizabeth into such a nest as this! Just as he was about to call to her that they "had better go home," something seemed to say to him, ''Wherein have they acted wrong in your presence? Have they not behaved like perfect gentlemen? Then, you treat them as such!" Reluctantly Walter settled back in his seat, resolved that he would not carry on the conversation and to withdraw at the first favorable opportunity. Mr. Lafayette was evidently taking in the state of Walter's feelings, for several times, as he read, he glanced furtively at Walter who sat cold and impassive. After Mr. Lafayette had finished reading and explaining briefly what the Book of Mormon purported to be, somehow or other—Walter never afterward could tell—the subject of baptism came up. This touched a sore spot, as Walter had had many unpleasant experiences in arguing this doctrine before. In spite of himself, he commented: "I don't think it makes any difference what way you are baptized." "Why don't it?" demanded the other rather sharply.; "Oh, I have come to believe lately that if you have the right spirit, the mode makes little difference—it's just a matter of preference, that's all." "I'll tell you, Mr. Nelson, that's what people have thought for many years, and, as a result, some baptize by immersion, some by sprinkling and pouring, and others say that baptism isn't necessary at all; and yet, each and every one of them claims to get his ideas from the Bible. Now, if you'll permit, I shall call your attention to some Bible passages which I think will show you that baptism by immersion is the true mode." Walter listened attentively, though at first he was some-
280 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
what disappointed that the passages were not new to him. However, as Mr. Lafayette explained the meaning of the scriptures as he understood them, a panorama of the plan of salvation opened gloriously before him—a vision of the gospel such as he had never dreamed! "Mr. Lafayette," he said solemnly, "my aunt, who brought me up since I was about ten years old, and who was a Baptist, many times has tried to convert me to this doctrine, but could not. She has read time and time again those very passages which you have explained, but I refused to believe her. And yet, I'll have to admit," he continued, deeply moved, "that you, an utter stranger, have absolutely convinced me that baptism by immersion is the only way the Bible teaches. I can't understand why I wouldn't believe her," he concluded regretfully. "I believe I can tell you the reason why, Mr. Nelson: I am an elder in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and have been divinely commissioned to preach the gospel and administer in its ordinances. I do not believe that the Church to which your aunt belongs has the right to act in the name of Christ. You remember that when Christ preached to the people they wondered at his talk and said, "He speaks as one having authority, and not as the scribes." "Don't you think that is a rather narrow-minded way of looking at it," objected Walter. "You know, while I always preferred my own church to any other, yet I have always felt that we were all on our way to heaven and that it really made little difference which road one traveled, so long as he lived up to what he believed."; "Yes, I know; that is the way most of the Christian world look at it. But, answer me this: Upon what is your church founded?" "The Bible, of course." "Upon what is your aunt's church founded?" "The Bible." "Then it must be that either the Bible contradicts itself, or else that one of you are wrong in your doctrines, for it is nonsense for one of you to say that baptism by immersion is the right mode, while the other says that it can be done by sprinkling. Both cannot be right." "Well—no; but is baptism such an important principle, after all?" "Don't you think that if it was necessary for Christ to go down into the water to 'fulfill all righteousness' that it is necessary for us?' demanded the elder. 'Then, too, don't forget that Christ told Nicodemus: 'Except a man be born of water
OUT OF THE WORLD 281
and of the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.' From that, it looks as if baptism is very essential. "Now speaking of being founded on the Bible," he went on: "all other churches make that claim, except the Catholic. There are dozens of sects all claiming to take their authority and doctrines direct from the scriptures, and yet, they differ, sometimes bitterly so, upon essential points. Christ told his disciples: 'My house is a house of order.' If that is so, there can be but one true church, the others being built upon the sand of men's opinions rather upon the rock of revelation. So, you must not think me narrow-minded in saying that ours is the only true Church, for in order to be consistent, we must claim this." "But isn't your Church founded on the Bible?" queried Walter., "We accept the Bible as the greatest book in the world—a book covering history, prophecy, and doctrine, all of which is to be read and understood accordingly. We believe the Book of Mormon to be an additional witness to the divine mission of the Redeemer. And yet, our Church is not established upon either of these books—we could do without them both if necessary. We claim to be founded upon direct revelation from heaven in these, the latter days. We have a Prophet who stands at the head of our Church, and to him the Lord reveals his mind and will when necessary. We assert that the true Church of Christ was not upon the earth between the time shortly after Christ's crucifixion and the year 1830, it having been taken away because of the terrible persecution the early Saints went through, and because of the dissension and wickedness that crept in amongst them. We claim that the same gospel that Christ preached has been restored from heaven to the Prophet Joseph Smith. We affirm that we have the same organization that Christ had, with all the officers, gifts, powers and blessings." "It is almost time for our cottage meeting, and we should very much like to have you stay. My companion, Mr. Maxwell, and I are out here as missionaries, at our own expense, preaching the gospel free of charge, and we are glad to run across people who are fair-minded and willing to listen." "Well, I don't know whether my cousin would care to stay," he answered doubtfully. "You know there is a great deal of prejudice against the 'Mormons,' in this part of the country. I'll go over and speak to her, however," (To be continued.)
Her Testimony Zella A. Johnson
It was at "fast meeting." The congregation sat silent, no one wished to speak. The lingering notes of the choir's song, "All is well," rang through the mind, but all was not "well." There was no response to the call of the Spirit. The silence became oppressive. The older members sat rigid, but the younger ones fidgeted and looked from one face to another. Way down on a front seat, near the organ sat Christina Jensen; her spare figure erect, thin hands clasped tightly, lips in a colorless line, eyes straight ahead. To Christina the silence was oppressive. Would they wait forever on her? That was her thought. She had never borne her testimony, since coming to America from dear old Denmark. She almost wished herself back at home beyond the sea. Christina Jensen was a lonely little widow whose life partner lay beneath the grass in a far away land. Two years in America had not served to teach her slow tongue the unreasonable English, and her sensitive soul shrank from the open ridicule of the younger generation and the amused smiles of the elder, at her broken speech., Testimony meeting was her special trial. She suffered intensely from an unsatisfied desire to speak of the gospel of Christ, the gospel, dearer to her than all else. Today it seemed to her as if they waited, waited for her, and the thought came to her, this was her test, would she take the opportunity, or would she let it pass and refuse to open her mouth in grateful thanks and praise to her God? At once she resolved to be brave. A silent prayer rose from her trembling heart. "God help me to speak as I wish!" The humble woman made an effort to rise, and as she faltered her shifting glance fell on the keys of the organ. Ah! Here was a language all understood. A tongue she could speak and all would listen. In her old home, for years she had played the little old organ in the white stone church, and her heart delighted in the harmony her clever fingers wrought. When her husband died, she had joined her only son in Zion across the sea, and in the midst of brilliant talent her one accomplishment had never been mentioned. Now in answer to her fervent prayer came an inspiration. She slipped softly to the stool and let her hands touch lightly the keys. A chord, soft yet
HER TESTIMONY 283
full and sweet, broke the stillness. For a moment her fingers, unguided by her excited brain, wandered from harmony to harmony; but at last found their place and the throbbing melody rolled out, her mind following in her beloved Danish with the words:
My God, my Father, while I stray Far from Thy path on life's rough way, Oh, teach me from my heart to say, "Thy will be done."
The last solemn tone faded away. The lonely little stranger slipped silently back to her place, but the spell was broken. One after another the people arose and some opened their hearts that day whose tongues had not acknowledged God for years. As the congregation passed quietly out, the gentle smiles, the many greeting hands outstretched to her, confirmed the truth in Christina's heart that God had accepted her testimony.
ABOUT TOBACCO
Will H. Brown, Oakland, California, superintendent Press Bureau. No-Tobacco League of America, says: It is reported that Sergeant York, America's great world war hero, is to tour the United States in a campaign against cigarettes. Notwithstanding Spain and Egypt are noted as tobacco manufacturing countries, the raising of tobacco is prohibited by both governments, says the Irish Tobacco Trade Journal. America should certainly be as wise in the right use of her soil as these degenerate nations. The San Francisco Examiner wisely says: "If you want to know what reform is coming next, see what the funny papers are hee-hawing over. Ridicule points the way of progress." Just now the funny papers are joining the tobacco trade organs in a campaign of ridicule of those who are working for the overthrow of tobacco. It is an easy guess what the outcome will be. The girls of Champaign, where is located the University of Illinois have formed an organization to do away with cigarette smoking in the college city, and have pledged themselves to not associate with boys who smoke. They are working for one thousand members. The boys of Champaign are getting even by forming an organization, pledging themselves that they will not keep company with any girl who wears short, low-necked dresses, or who uses rouge or paint. The example of both should be followed by the youths of every city, town and hamlet in the world.
The Atonement John G. McQuarrie
I have been asked to discuss the subject of the atonement of Jesus Christ, not particularly the scriptural phase, which states it as an accomplished fact, but rather to treat the subject from the viewpoint of reason, and then to show a necessity and justification for it. When we consider any of the fundamentals of life, whether we study the cells which go to make up the plants, or the cells which go to make the animals, or try to decipher those subtle, elusive agencies at work in forming the lower and simpler forms into the higher more complex and more beautiful expressions of life, we soon discover that we are approaching problems which we cannot fully solve. We may never in mortality solve the real mystery of life, yet the study of biology has helped us to more profitably cooperate with nature by revealing many of the unvarying laws upon which desired results are predicated. So, too, in approaching this subject of the atonement, I do not expect to solve the deep-hidden mystery, but rather to find within the realm of our own experience, sufficient justification for it. So that even a doubting Thomas may be persuaded to move forward, with reasonable assurance that he will find joy and profit by willingly cooperating with the Master in his plan for the redemption of mankind. That some such exposition or analysis is needed must be evident as soon as we try to find a reason, outside of authoritative obedience, for either the vicarious work our people are doing for the dead, or the individual conformity to certain principles and ordinances required of the living. The gospel, as a philosophy of life, rests on two facts, the fall of man and the atonement of Jesus Christ; but since we cannot build a logical philosophy on two mysteries, we must admit them as possible facts in order to have a basis for further reasoning. That gives us a working hypothesis. If we say that in some mysterious way man fell and in some mysterious way Christ atoned for the sin, we can just as logically say that in some mysterious way man is saved by the operation, either by grace, election, or foreordination, as to claim the necessity of conforming to a certain number of other ordinances or principles. In order to prove the necessity of any factor in any given scheme or plan we must admit in the premises of the argument
THE ATONEMENT 285
the necessity of attaining the object or accomplishing the purpose for which the plan has been designed. Without going into a discussion of the fall, let us admit, without argument, that man, if not fallen, was, at the time of the Messiah's Advent, in a condition far below his possibilities. Let us also admit that it is necessary for the race to avoid a state of misery and reach a state of happiness, and that it was the purpose of the atonement to make possible the attainment of the latter condition. The theological terms for the two states are hell and heaven. We will further admit that it was God's purpose to bring about through the mission and atonement of Jesus the Christ, the complete happiness of all of his children. With this object of the atonement well settled in our minds, let us ask the question: On what does the happiness of the world depend? The worldly idea seems to have been that the great object could be attained through technical knowledge, material wealth, or physical and political power. But such agencies are only the tools of life and so far as happiness is concerned they have often marred, and have never made it complete. Probably the best answer that could be given the question is: The happiness of the world is determined by the character of the people. Character is a broad term. It may include the illuminating factor of knowledge. It may utilize such tools as wealth, and power to make environment harmonize with the taste or needs, according to the degree of development; but character, is the great determining acquirement for man's success and happiness. In order that the masses of humanity, who are steeped in ignorance, sin and superstition, and beset by false ideals and selfish longing, might recognize and acquire this thing we call character what factors or agencies would be necessary? In our efforts to become proficient in certain departments of knowledge, such as music, art, science, etc., we have found that we need: (1) standards which will help us to discover the goal and by which we may measure our approach toward it, (2) also examples and teachers to assist the beginner in following the selected course, (3) the general rules or laws by which the particular study may be made workable. In any such scheme of educational cooperation it is logical and reasonable to suppose that the college or institute which we attend must furnish the standards, supply the examples, and teach, or at least lay down, the several fundamental rules and laws which must be learned or mastered. The logical position of the student is to study the subject and then to apply the rules— in order to make the art or science his own.
286 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Now, in order that man might acquire a true character, would it not be reasonable, in fact necessary, for him to discover or choose a true standard or ideal, by which to measure his own actions, and to find an example to interpret this standard and ideal in terms of human activities? Then he must find some teacher or guide who will outline the laws and rules to be observed, in order that he might make this perfect character his aim and his ideal. We do not need to take anything for granted or to do any guessing in answering this question. We have the written history of ideal principles of nearly six thousand years from which to draw our conclusions. But until such a personal standard was revealed through Jesus Christ, the mystery of a true character remained as Paul testified, "hid in God from the beginning." Man made little progress toward discovering it. The world was full of false standards and false ideals, but no true one personal standard had ever been portrayed. All the Old Testament characters, all the pagan gods were faulty and showed human weakness here and there. Man had never conceived a perfect human character. He could not do so, for the world is bounded by what we don't know. The tropic savage cannot conceive of snow and ice. Every superstructure, whether social, ethical or political, built on the worldly ideal of greatness was, "like the house built on the sand" which tumbled to ruin, carrying down in the fall, king and serfs, slave and master, priest and soldier alike. The worldly idea of greatness in character whether applied to an individual or to a nation, was might, force, power to rule. Humility was weakness, service was menial. When the Master came in the meridian of time he made known the dignity of service, the power of humility, and that happiness is an abiding influence which above is found along the line of self-sacrifice instead of in self-gratification. He set up for the world the perfect standard for human character. We have reached then reason number one for Christ's mission. Of course, we cannot arrive at the absolute in any process of reasoning, we cannot determine what might eventually have transpired, if certain events had not occurred; but with the history of the past before us, and with what we know of human strength and weakness, human success and failure we may ask. (1) should the world have waited and suffered until through purely human agencies, a true ideal was evolved or a perfect character discovered? Or shall we conclude that it was necessary for God to reveal the standard character in the way he chose to do. Perfection was not in man, it centered in God. Therefore, a mortal man could not have reflected or represented the Divine character, neither could God in his immortal state
THE ATONEMENT 287
have interpreted his own character in terms of human activities. Therefore there was the necessity of just such a personality that Christ disclosed himself to be, half mortal, half divine, '"The Only Begotten of the Father," the Son of Man and the Son of God, a being possessing a mortal tabernacle, and a divine nature, coming on earth as the divine standard of character. The importance of the example set by Jesus Christ, and that he is the great example of the race, is generally admitted by well informed men regardless of their church affiliation or non-affiliation; but the point I want to make clear is this: that it was necessary for some one more than a Buddha, a Mohammed, a Confucius, or a Moses to perform this mission. No one but the Christ the Son of God could have accomplished it. If we admit the necessity of his example for mortals, we next ask why was the great sacrifice necessary? In the first place it was necessary in order to complete the example. In considering the effect of example there is a great moral value in the common-place, but no stimulus. We need the stimulus of the definite heroic action. If we think for a moment of the difficulty men have had in "trying to follow in his steps' and teach the principles he taught, we shall at once appreciate the fact that he not only showed man how to live, but also how to die. The uplifting of humanity is such a stupendous, continuous task, including the fight against false standards, old traditions, vain philosophies, base superstitions, usurped class privileges, and selfishness in all its gilded forms, that it requires more than an ideal, it needs an example, and rules of conduct to make it effective. It requires organization, power, authority, control. There are but two principles of power and control. One is force, the other love. One operates from without, the other from within. One restrains the arm, the other purifies the heart. One enslaves, the other makes free. Force, though often tried, has always failed. Love we can safely assume, was the only law that would fit into this scheme of world redemption. But love, unlike force, cannot be applied through physical agencies such as armies, navies, prisons, etc. There is no "open sesame" word, no arbitrary power which can call this subtle, mysterious system of reciprocal chords into being. We know less about this experienced thing we call love, than we do about electricity. We cannot hope to define it. The best we can do is to observe the condition which generates it, get connected up with the dynamo and witness the illumination. Patriotism is a love of the fathers, the principles for which they stood. Have you ever felt it? What condition established
288 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the tie of sympathy between the fathers of the Revolution and us, their natural or adopted children? There is a love which dutiful children feel for benevolent parents. Have you ever felt it? There is a love which parents have for their children. Have you experienced it? If so, we can probably draw from our mutual experiences this conclusion, that the strongest, most enduring reciprocal ties of love are developed only by and through dependence, vicarious work, and sacrifice. Try to imagine our devotion to principle, our appreciation of liberty, our love of the Father who bequeathed them, if no sacrifice had ever been made. Try to imagine the unselfish sacrifices made by the Revolutionary fathers, that high-born courage and faith which sustained them through years of struggle, if they themselves had not felt vicariously that the fate of their children and the future of the unborn was included in their cause! Try to imagine without an example before you being made responsible for the control of a family, and the development of the children until the gulf between weakness and strength, ignorance and knowledge, innocence and virtue, should all close up so that your children to you might become not only interesting but companionable. Then imagine eliminating the conditions of dependence on 'the part of those children and the necessity of sacrifice on the part of yourself, with no opportunity to do for them the things they could not do for themselves! Under such conditions imagine circumstances arising in the home where the strong stimulus of parental example to heroic action may be necessary or where the strong parental restraint against determined but misguided desire could not be used! Could you lay hold of the cords of love and feel sure that they were strong enough to stand the strain? Sacrifice is not only the means of developing love, but it is the only means of proving it. England at present feels very solicitous for the good of Ireland; she would like her to become a willing cooperator and interested factor in building the British Empire. But when Ireland was conquered and dependent, England never made a sacrifice which would prove to Ireland England's unselfish interest in Ireland's welfare; now it is too late. On the other hand, the United States did do for helpless Cuba what she could not do for herself. The sacrifice made in blood and treasure put the high purpose of the Government beyond question. The magnanimity shown will command from Cuba the services of friendship when the force of armies and navies might fail. God so loved the world that he gave his Only Begotten Son that whosoever believed in him might not perish but have everlasting life. The world was in a condition from which it THE ATONEMENT 289 could not extricate itself. Christ was willing to perform the vicarious work. He made a sacrifice which put his love beyond question and enabled him to quicken in the hearts of men the eternal law of love by mean$ of which he will eventually bring them all to him and make them feel the joy of fellowship in his Father's family. He proved his love by his death. That the death of Jesus Christ was necessary to complete his example and that some such great sacrifice was necessary to establish confidence and awaken love, can be proved from our own experience: but the most difficult problem for reason to grasp is the central and most vital phase of the Great Act: Grace! If the world stands under the condemnation of sin, why should the shedding of Christ's blood in justice effect any relief? Why should the penalty paid by one be carried over to and relieve another? In order to get our bearing, let us first define the terms which enter as prime factors into the problem. What is law? Hooker says, "Of law no less can be acknowledged than that her voice is the harmony of the world." Sin, therefore, is the discord of the world. Sin has an outward and an inward effect; the inward affecting the life of the individual and the outward affecting the life of his fellow man. Penalty is the natural consequence endured by the person who breaks the law or the specific price he must pay to compensate the injury done to others. Atonement signifies making restitution, paving penalty, bringing ourselves into accord, and in the sense we are now using the term it indicates vicarious work. Justice is the principle of rectitude and just dealings of men with one another. It is that virtue which enables men to distinguish and maintain the proper relationship between law and penalty, keeping in mind the object of law and the purpose of penalty, Aristotle held justice to be the principle of virtue toward others, and he distinguished between the justice of equity, which ' considers the purpose of harmony, and the mere legality of an action. Mercy signifies the forebearance from inflicting a harm or exacting a penalty when one has the legal right or power to inflict it. It is the compassionate treatment of an offender. Bacon says, "Examples of justice must be made for terror to some, and examples of mercy for comfort to others." If, from the point of equity we study law, and penalty, and justice and mercy, with restitution as their-object—we shall find them equally just and necessary. Law is the finger board directing us on that path which leads to harmony, liberty, and mutual enjoyment. 290  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Penalty warns us that we are out of the true course. Its object and effect is to force us back before the final crash comes that would wreck our lives, and destroy the happiness of others. By experiencing penalty we may determine the distance we are from the path we should follow; but when this result has been accomplished, penalty has served its main purpose, no matter who has paid it, whether paid by the sinner or by someone who is willing to suffer that the sinner may escape. The object of justice is to restore order and happiness, but what we shall here call legal justice, could not accomplish this worthy object, simply with the cold unfeeling operation of human law and human penalty, because penalty with its two-fold effect soon places the persistent law-breaker in a condition of helplessness, a condition where he has not the power either to repair the injury he has done to himself or others. He might be annihilated, but annihilation would not restore the happiness of the individual himself nor bring restitution or order where his actions had wrought discord and injury. Law and penalty alone would defeat themselves. 'But no principle is true in itself; it is true only as it is truly related to other things. Justice could not be justice, taken alone; only when associated with mercy can it accomplish its purpose, or even be understood. The Jews had their cities of refuge and their scape-goat and the paschal lamb itself was the symbol of a vicarious atonement. Conversely, mercy without justice would cease to be mercy, because if an individual could not demand the payment of a debt, he could not extend mercy in forgiving it. If law and penalty did not force the evil doer to the very end of his resources, he might never realize his true condition, but when he has been brought to a realization of his utter dependence, and the obligation he is under to the injured one or to the society whose laws he has broken; when he realizes that the course he has followed has brought him to the very antipodes of happiness, justice has accomplished all that is possible for it to do, working alone. She has brought the individual to realize his dependence, a condition necessary to commence development; but justice must now allow mercy to take up her work. Some strong person who has the love of God and humani¢« in his heart and who has the power to do so, is willing, in ordes to save a soul, to undertake the task of vicarious atonement. He satisfies the demands of justice. He pays the penalty of sin that the sinner may measure the law he has broken by the price that was paid by his friend for his sake. If you had carried a load of debt for years, and old age found you unable even to keep up the interest, would you not love the friend who would come THE ATONEMENT 291 to your rescue and clear off the whole debt giving you a fresh start in life? Could you ever be grateful enough to him? This manifestation of real love, this great sacrifice of the stronger for the weaker is just as sure to kindle the flame of love in the heart of the weaker brother as a mother's love and devotion is to kindle it in the heart of her child. And as the love begins to work in a regenerative way, his repentance will grow more sincere, his gratitude will deepen. He will be bound to the one who has purchased and redeemed him, and with this hold the redeemer can lead him by example into the realm of a higher life where they can meet and be companionable. The one making such a sacrifice will find a blissful consciousness in the good accomplished that will repay him for the pain endured or the goods sacrificed. Both the redeemed and the redeemer are thus truly blessed. In this there is a restitution of happiness, a vindication of law. When the weaker has become strong, he can do for others what has been done for him. With the recognition of the justice of this vicarious work the world can be saved, harmony reestablished, love made a workable virtue. Without this principle the world would rest under a curse. Such was the mission. Of our elder Brother, Jesus Christ, and _ such the condition of the world at the time of his advent. The dread disease of sin had spread its contagion through every soul and there was no known remedy or cure for the moral leprosy. To prevent evil conditions the course leading to them must be understood. Thousands have been swept from the earth by cholera, black plague, leprosy, and other diseases caused by the unsanitary conditions in which people lived. The people, however, did not know the cause, did not know that they were filthy, but when the conditions were made known, a cleansing took place and the evils were averted. Thus many of the conditions which afflict humanity result from causes which are unobserved by those who suffer, and misunderstood by those whose duty it is to administer the remedy. When a great eruption shakes the body politic, we usually attribute it to anarchy, vice, drunkenness, infidelity, or some of the glaring evils; but the majority of the people feel that they are not guilty of such sins and that they are not responsible for the seething mass of iniquity which pollutes the world. But the greatest sin ever committed, that sin which caused the angels to weep and men to blush with shame, was not the result of any of those glaring evils. The crime was inflicted by the supporters of law, by the examples of virtue, those who were ceremoniously clean and strictly temperate. This spasm which swept up through the social system and struck down the King of kings and Lord of lords, started from the simple, 292 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE common, and unholy malady we call selfishness. The germ of this disease is in every human heart unless it has been cleansed by the Great Physician. How was man to know the fearful effect and prevalence of this sin? When selfishness met selfishness, when force ran counter to force and one party was vanquished and the other triumphed by force, the eyes of the world followed the victor, and they saw a virtue in his strength and they gloried in his power. He had not broken any law, he had simply adhered to the law of selfish self-preservation. If we were all black, we would not be conscious of our color until a white man came among us to reveal the fact by contrast. Where all were selfish, one free from the weakness had to come to reveal the fact to us. Selfishness lies at the root of sin, the end of sin is death. Christ came like a lamb among wolves, and when he was torn asunder without mercy, the heartless nature of the wolves was discovered; and we saw, too, that this selfish nature was something that all men were tainted with and under the same circumstances and conditions the disease in us would manifest similar symptoms. The death of Jesus Christ, although foreknown, was the natural effect of the condition of the world, a penalty that he voluntarily met because he did not use his power to avert it, a penalty which shows us how the harmony of law will be broken as long as selfishness dominates the world. In the life of Christ we see the beauty of unselfish love and truth, and in his death we witness the effect of selfish sin, brutal force. If, through this penalty, we can become conscious of the laws we have broken, if we are filled with a sincere admiration for the harmony of Jaw and the beauty: which Christ has revealed, and we are willing to make the necessary effort to attain to the truer ideals of life, so far as we can, the penalty he paid has: served its purpose, and God, whose laws we have broken, can justly forgive without the price being paid in eternal pain by us; instead we pay the price in love and gratitude to the One who has opened our eyes and who is willing to lead us into a better realm of life. Now let us summarize the principles we have found operating in God's plan of redemption. The experience of the race has proved human agencies ineffectual to bring about a state of happiness, We may begin, therefore, by acknowledging man's dependence, a condition necessary to development. Jesus Christ on his part has fixed a true ideal, set an example, revealed our relationship to a higher order of beings, has given us definite rules of THE ATONEMENT 293 ation to perfect us individually, and revealed a social system by which we may unite as a community. He has made a sacrifice that should touch every heart and awaken within it the flame of love and gratitude. Our object was not to solve the mystery of the atonement, but to find in the realm of our own experiences sufficient justification for that sacrifice. I believe with Immanuel Kant, "That our prime thought, our reason proper, can reveal to us no theoretical, 'demonstrable, absolute fact about the nature of things, but can only show us on the one hand what, as rational beings, we are bound practically to assume as true, not as a matter of knowledge, but of faith." In science as well as in religion there is a limit to absolute knowledge, a realm bounded by our own experiences, but ever floating above' it is a necessary sphere of rational faith, a string or magnet lifting us into higher degrees of life. And as we ascend, our mental vision enlarges and the boundaries of our experiences break away into ever widening circles.
BELATED JOYS Alveretta Engar
A robin drooped her head beneath her wing, The joyous notes, also, she cannot sing, No leafy bower in which to build her nest, No mate nor little ones to lull to rest.
I gaze upon the dark and dreary skies, My heart is heavy and tears bedim my eyes. Where are the joys for which I wait and pray, The joys I dreamed would come at break of day?
Where are the words of praise I long to hear, The words of love my lonely heart to cheer? I sit, as did the bird, with drooping head, Hope, faith and love within me almost dead.
When lo! I hear a voice close by me speak, "Cease thy complaints, sinful mortal and weak, What tho' the morning sun refuse to shine, Within thy soul there is a spark divine—
A heavenly flame whose hidden fire burns bright; Arise! Kindle that never-failing light! 'Twas He who said, "I am the light, the way." Whose light shall shine thro' everlasting day,
"From Zion to Jerusalem"
Major De Rothschild goes to Palestine. Major James De Rothschild, son of Baron Edmond de Rothschild, the noted Paris philanthropist, one of the leading sportsmen in England and France, who was recently in America, is leaving London for Palestine, reports the Jewish Correspondence Bureau. It is understood that while there he will confer with Winston Churchill, the English Colonial Secretary. Latest figures available show that 2,513 Palestinians are at present employed by the Palestine government, reports the Jewish Correspondence Bureau. Of this number, 163 are holding positions of importance. The government also employes 417 Britishers of whom 213 are occupying positions of responsibil-- ity. Sir Stuart Samuel Goes to Palestine, Sir Stuart Samuel, one of the leading Jews in England, and President of the Jewish Board of Deputies, the most influential cording to the Jewish Correspondence Bureau, where he will be the guest of his brother Sir Herbert Samuel, the High Commissioner. Sir Stuart will make a study of conditions in Palestine. To Organize Home Defense Battalions. The Palestine government has completed arrangements for the establishment of two battalions to form a home-defense, says a Jewish Correspondence Bureau dispatch. The Battalion of the north will be composed mainly of Jews and will be under the command of Colonel Margolin, while that further south will be made up chiefly of Arabs. General Castell will be in charge of the entire force. Service will be for one year and new recruits will be added every six months. Palestine Gradually Building up Adequate Railway System. Increasing Modern Facilities and Conveniences—Opening New Roads.; Prior to the armistice in 1918 it was practically impossible
"FROM ZION TO JERUSALEM" 295
to undertake the handling of civilian traffic owing to the heavy military demands on the railway. Subsequent to the armistice, however, through-booked goods consignments were accepted in unlimited quantities. Passenger Coaches Used. The lack of proper passenger rolling stock has been realized all through, and in December, 1919, the War Office was requested to authorize two complete hospital trains, consisting of 23 coaches, all told, to be converted into passenger coaches. Sixteen of these coaches which have been held up owing to the scarcity of fittings, etc., is now in course of completion. In consequence of the railway not being hitherto provided with proper rolling stock, it has been necessary to retain a number of Egyptian state railway coaches which were supplied during the war for the movement of 'troops and are of an old type. Jerusalem Station Enlarged. Jerusalem station is about three times the size it was prior to the war, and apart from increased booking facilities is being provided with modern lavatory arrangements and electric lighting. Passenger Traffic Increased. There has been a decided increase in the passenger traffic, and it is confidently expected that a large increase in the goods traffic will follow as time goes on and the country gets properly opened up. In February of last year a service of dining and sleeping cars was inaugurated and these have proved to be a decided acquisition to the comfort of the traveling public. A daily train service was instituted between Palestine and Egypt November last, and it is intended, as soon as further stock becomes available and if the traffic justifies the expense, to run an extra train later in the day on three days a week from Haifa to Ludd, and vice versa, in order to avoid passengers for Jaffa and Jerusalem lines having to proceed by the 5:15 a. M. Train. That train will continue to run; otherwise passengers for Egypt would be obliged to spend the night at Kantara. An arrangement has been made with the International Sleeping Car Company to provide a further number of dining and sleeping cars, and this will permit of the extra passenger train, which was put on in November last, having a dining and sleeping car attached to it, and if it is found that the traffic on the Jaffa Jerusalem line warrants it, a dining car will be put on to this service.
296 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Considerable alterations are being made to Ludd station in the shape of the construction of two island platforms with overhead cover. First Class Accommodation Provided. There has been a shortage of first class accommodation on the narrow gauge lines and this has been entirely due to the fact that the passenger coaches captured from the Turks were in a very bad state of repair, and it has been extremely difficult to obtain the necessary materials to put them again in running order. It is expected, however, that first class coaches will be available for both the Acre and Nablus services, within the next few weeks. On April 3 the President of the World Zionist Organization, Dr. Weizmann, will arrive in the United States, accompanied by a number of prominent European Zionists, including Professor Einstein, the world-renowned scientist; M. M. Ussischkin, Naiditch and Hillel Zalatapolsky. This will be Dr. Weizmann's first visit to the United States.
REORGANIZATION OF THE GENERAL OFFICERS AND BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
As our magazine goes to press, the April Conference is going forward. Our own Relief Society Conference has passed bringing with it a great change in our General Board. President Emmeline B. Wells has been released because of her advanced age and her feeble health. The General Board was released and reorganized at the same time. The present personnnel is as follows: President Clarissa Smith Williams; first counselor Jenrie Brimhall Knight; second counselor, Louisa Yates Robinson; | Secretary and Treasurer, Amy Brown Lyman. Board Members: Emma A. Empey, Susa Young Gates, Janette A. Hyde, Sarah M. McClelland, Lillian Cameron, Annie Wells Cannon, Lelene Hart, Lottie Paul Baxter, Julia Alleman Childs, Cora Bennion, Julia A. F, Lund, Amy Whipple Evans, Ethel Reynolds Smith, Barbara Howell Richards, Rosanna C. Irvine. In our June number the Conference minutes will be given in full, with an account of the changes made.
Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
SAMOAN RELIEF SOCIETY ITEMS
Relief Society organizations throughout Zion and the world are an integral part of the work of the gospel; and the Society serves its high purpose in the Samoan Mission, as we presume it does in other proselyting fields. Indeed, without the efforts of the sisters in the Church here, we fear that our cause would lack much of its prestige and vitality. To illustrate how far reaching is the influence of our Society work and to what extent is its merits recognized by other sects, we need only to draw attention to recent occurrence in the "London Mission Society Church," the strongest sect in this Samoan group. In the ninety years since its establishment in Samoa (being established here the very year that our Church was organized, that is, 1830), this sect has interpreted Paul's admonition for "woman to hold silence in church," so as to preclude its female members from taking any active part in church work. But noting the very excellent labors of our Samoan Relief Society sisters as they faithfully went about the performance of their various activities, they decided in one of their big annual conventions not many months since, to organize their women into groups patterned after the "Mormon Relief Society," and they plainly said so. It is a wonderful vindication of the divine work of the Prophet Joseph, that he, a lone individual practically fighting
-298 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
his battle for truth without other assistance than his own integrity and his Heavenly Father's inspiration and revelation, should have been able to establish a perfect woman's organization which the world with all its learning has failed to equal and can only approach it in effectiveness and scope through the great work of the Relief Society. Our Lamanite sisters here go about their errands of mercy and kindness in the spirit which has distinguished the "Mormon" Relief Societies above any mere charitable or war organization yet instituted. They are to be found in the home of suffering and affliction as soon as they learn there is need of a loving act or a sympathetic word; theirs are the hands which lay out the remains of the deceased, prepare the last burial robes and keep the death vigil; to the home of the needy they delight to carry various necessities, sometimes home grown fruits or delicacies and again it may be purchased from stores or shops; if a brother or sister be confined in a hospital for weary weeks of convalescing, thither the sisters frequently go with a variety of food and flowers to make life brighter and lighter. And greatest of all, their attention is now centered more upon Temple work and funds are being raised to aid in carrying on the work for their dead. Regular weekly meetings are held, in which the procedure is similar to that at home. The uniform text book now studied is the Book of Mormon, and it is discussed each week with interest, developing stronger testimonies as the years go on. For thirty-two years now our Church has been established in Samoa but it has not been possible till just now to establish the Relief Society in Apia, the chief seaport of the islands, and practically the only place where foreigners reside. We have Societies in other places, of course. Much bitterness of late has cropped out there, and other churches have forbidden their members to attend "Mormon" services. We first held Sunday evening meetings and so did they as was usual. But, to our surprise, when we began Monday night services as a preferable night, lo and behold, in order to defeat our purposes, they are now holding church Monday night. They even appealed to the American Consul to have Sister Laulii, our faithful saint at whose home meetings are held, and who married an American, (now deceased) warned that she was creating too much disturbance. The consul visited her, was convinced of her rights, and told her to go ahead. So the way was opened by the Lord, and last Sunday we organized the Relief Society in Apia, with Laulii as president. In other ways the work is expanding and we are very hopeful of the future. Thirza A. Adams.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 299
Teton Stake
On March 13, 1921, the Relief Societies of the Teton stake held a very successful and interesting conference. A program of duets, quartets, and anthems, together with the following subjects were given: The co-operation of the Relief Society with the Priesthood in genealogical work; temple marriages, proper conduct, and clothing. The subjects were treated in a general way, as well as with reference to local conditions. The attendance was very good.
Juarez Stake
A stake conference was held in Colonia Juarez in February. A comprehensive report of the work of the stake was given by President Fanny C. Harper, who expressed appreciation for the devotion of the Relief Society women, calling attention to the fact that the Mexican members are not behind their sisters in Relief Society activities. They contribute to charity, pay their membership and stake dues and take care of their record and accounts, using the teachers' books and the ward record books. Ward reports were given as follows: Juarez, Jane R. Spillsbury; Dublan, reported by Mrs. Bertha Pratt; Pacheco, reported by Mrs, Sarah Lunt; Garcia, reported by Mrs. Whetten. These presidents called attention to the splendid charity work being done, the devotion of the district teachers, the interesting work meetings held, and of entertainments given, including dramatics. Mrs. Maggie I. Bentley spoke on the responsibility of L. D. S. Women to home, to school, to church, and to community. Counselors Agnes Whetten and Mollie Skousen spoke of the duties of the Relief Society women, and of the blessings which follow those who are willing to give service in this organization. President J. C. Bentley and counselors John Whetten and Albert. Wagner were in attendance, and gave addresses which were very encouraging to the Relief Society workers. Appreciation was expressed for the splendid spirit accompanying all phases of the work, and for the apparent desire on the part of the members of accomplishing good through the organization. Subjects were outlined for the district teachers to discuss while visiting families,
Montpelier Stake
The Stake Relief Society officers and board members recently entertained at a get-acquainted social in honor of the Ward Relief Society officers and partners. Special guests were the stake presidency, and the stake officers of the Sunday school, Mutual Improvement Association, Primary Assoviation, and Religion Class. Social games and old time dances were indulged in, and refreshments were served. During the month of February
300 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
four conventions or district meetings were held in Montpelier stake. Three of these conventions comprised three wards, and one comprised two wards. Meetings began at 11 o'clock a. M. Relief Society lessons were given, also musical selections and short talks by stake officers. After luncheon, a social hour was enjoyed.
Ogden Stake —
On December 27, 1920, the Ogden stake Relief Society was reorganized. This action was made necessary because of the passing of Mrs. Isabelle B. Foulger, who had presided over the Relief Societies of Ogden stake for a number of years. The following officers were appointed: president, Mrs. Ida M. Treseder; counselors, Mrs. Emma A. Jensen, and Mrs. Kate F. Woodbury. Mrs. Elizabeth M. Goddard was retained as secretary and treasurer. Board members, Mrs. Elizabeth H. Ipsen and Mrs. Lydia S. Merrill.
Anniversary Day
In practically all the wards of the Church, and in the missions, March 17 was celebrated with appropriate exercises. It was 79 years on that day since the Relief Society was organized, and the celebration of that event included historical sketches, tableaux, pageants, plays, readings, addresses, reminiscences, cantatas, etc., etc. In Brigham City the five wards joined together in a program which consisted of a pageant with the following special features: organization of the Relief Society in 1842; the gathering of wheat; silk culture; teachers' work; and accompanying these features were appropriate songs and other musical numbers. Among those representing early characters in the work* was Mr, Calvin W. Richards, who represented his father, Willard Richards. The Malad stake reunion was held in the Malad stake tabernacle on March 17. An excellent program was given, followed by a banquet. The tables were daintily spread, and the decorations were green and white, with shamrock place-cards and blooming shamrocks. The serving committee consisted of young Relief Society members from 25 to 30 years of age. The celebration ended with a dancing party in the evening. Members from the Washakie Indian organization were in attendance, dressed in their very best. Three of the older women sang a song in their own language, while the young women sang "Somewhere the sun is shining." These women also took part in the dancing and were as graceful as any of their sisters. The first and second ward Relief Societies of Salina entertained all Relief Society members of North Sevier stake with their partners, the object being to get better acquainted
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 301
with the members of the new stake. The entertainment began at 2 p. M. A very interesting program, consisting of musical numbers, readings, historical sketches, and encouraging talks were given, after which luncheon was served. The Relief Society women of Salina were highly complimented on_ this splendid entertainment. In the St. George stake Relief Society programs were given on Wednesday, March 16. For years the St. George stake Relief Society has reserved the 17 of March as their general Relief Society temple day, so this year being -a repetition of the past, the day was spent in the temple by a large number of workers who gave this service to the temple. March 17 was also "Good Roads Day" in St. George, set aside by the mayor to improve some of the streets. The Relief Society members furnished luncheon for those who worked on the road. In the St. Joseph stake a stake Relief Society conference and social was held on March 17, annual day. This conference was a climax to the ward conferences which had just previously been held in all of the twenty wards of the stake. There was a large attendance of women from all over the stake, and the interest was intense throughout. The stake presidency, eight high councilmen, seven bishops, and a number of others, were present. The morning session was devoted entirely to the sayings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, while the afternoon was devoted" to biographical sketches of the five general presidents of the Relief Society, with a historical sketch of the organization of the St. Joseph stake. In connection with the program, delightful and appropriate musical numbers were given. In Farmington, March 17 was celebrated as an anniversary day and ward reunion combined. After the close of a very interesting program, a luncheon was served, cafeteria style, to 250. In the evening a dancing party was held. Bear River Stake. On February 20, a character ball was given by the Relief Society women, and proved to be one of the most interesting entertainments ever given in the stake. There was a splendid group of pioneers, pilgrims, Indians, with their chiefs, colonial characters, including George and Martha Washington, Church characters, including President Brigham Young and President Emmeline B. Wells. ' Bear Lake Stake. At the last meeting of the stake and local officers' and members the literary lesson, "Come, come, ye Saints" was given. After the lecture and discussion, a quartet sang the hymn, and a little pageant was given, depicting the Pioneers. In the visiting
302 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
teachers' department, the following subjects have been outlined and printed on cards for the use of the teachers: February, reverence; March, loyalty to priesthood; April, prayer; May, the sabbath; June, safeguarding the young. Under the subject of prayer is given the following outline: (A) Prayer a commandment of God, Doc. And Cov. 68:28. (B) A safeguard against sin, Doc. And Cov. 61:39. (C) Reward of prayer, Doc. And Cov. 19:38; 61:37. (D) Family prayer: 1. Promotes family unity; 2. Developes faith. 3. Brings blessings of heaven. (E) Secret prayer: 1. Lifting of burden; 2. Strength in time of need; 3. Guidance temporally as well as spiritually. Pray rather than say prayers.
Liberty Stake.
In the Liberty stake, in Salt Lake City, there is a department working in the interest of those who are home bound, throughout the stake. The Stake Board member, in charge of this work, is assisted by a group of women whose special duty it is to carry comfort and cheer to those who through illness or old age, are confined to their homes. This work is a stake activity and is arranged so that it interferes in no way with the regular work being done in the wards. Following is a report of the activities of the stake committee during 1921: Meetings held at the county infirmary, 3; Hours spent in visiting home bound members, 856; Home bound members died during 1920, 11; Cash received from the wards, $11; Cash received from private parties, $19.05; Jellies received from wards, 140 glasses; contributions from business men for county infirmary: oranges, 1 box; cake, 15 pounds; paper bags, 150; apples, 1 box; candy, 10 pounds. Cash disbursed: Jewish Relief Fund, $5; flowers, $8; to home bound members, $6.50, to county infirmary on New Year's Day, 120 bags, each containing a glass of jelly, an ora an apple, cake and candy.
Wasatch Stake.
At the Ideal theatre in Heber City, the Relief Sagi of Wasatch stake put on a pageant featuring the journey of the Pioneers from Nauvoo to Salt Lake City, and especially the hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints." The pageant was witnessed by about five hundred people who expressed themselves as thoroughly enjoying the entertainment. The pageant was arranged and managed by the following members of the Wasatch stake beard: Mrs. Eliza Rasburn, Mrs. Elizabeth McDonald, Mrs. Eva Jensen.
Criminal Impropriety
From the Los Angeles Times
We had supposed that the decadence obvious in the sartorial modes for society women reached their limit last year and that a saner and more decent sense of propriety would evince itself in the revulsion of public taste. But the tendency to bizarre indecency has increased so that now we are offered in our public ballrooms the spectacle of criminal impropriety—of women's bare legs and painted knees, of naked backs and lewdly veiled bosoms, of transparent skirts and suggestive nudity, of decorated flesh and vulgar exposure generally—the sort of thing that has ever preceded the downfall of civilizations. It has no relation whatever to the nudity of innocence, as is perfectly obvious with one glance at the type of dancing women that affects these disgusting extremes, for their whole deportment is so entirely in accord with their scant covering and nastily conceived exposures. They are brazenly inviting a certain kind of attention and they get only the sort of attention they invite. They are degrading all womanhood with their shamelessness at a time when the more worthy of their sex have striven to win and deserve that respect which should rightfully be theirs. The people are all overwhelmed by the appalling crime wave that has beset the world—not only by murders, robberies and hold-ups, but by the ghastly increase in marital unfaithfulness which clogs the divorce courts and the attacks against women and girls which have become a daily department of the news. The incredible and loathsome conditions cannot be overstated. They are widespread, staggering in their viciousness. And we unhesitatingly declare that the preposterous vulgarity and criminal impropriety of that vastly increasing number of women who adopt these indecent modes for "party gowns" is, if not responsible for the dirty conditions, at least a large and important factor. And it is deplorable that as the extremists jump from: extreme to extreme the presumably decent women follow. They are slower to adopt the full measure of indecency, but each season finds them "conservatively" following at a respectful distance, so that the modes for decent women today were the extremes of indecency a few short seasons back. Why do they do it? It is a poor explanation to declare that they thus become more attractive to men. If they are honest with themselves they know very well that the sort of attraction
304 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
thus engendered makes the lowest possible appeal. If they are honest with themselves they know very well that masculine taste in such matters is absolutely in the hands of women, that the standard they set is the standard which will inevitably be adopted. It has been said that every country gets the women it deserves, but rather would we say that every woman gets the sort of attention she deserves, Intelligent women know this, no matter what their argument to the contrary. But the women who are going to these disgusting and revolting extremes are not intelligent. Man may be vile, but he also has perception. Observe the women in any public ballroom today—those who expose the most have the least worthy of exposure. These lewd revelations are certainly not in the cause of beauty. It is the fat and podgy or the lean and bony female, for the most part, one who has neither natural physical or mental attraction, that resorts to this means of commanding attention. She makes one appeal, and only one, and that to the very lowest intsincts of masculine human nature. No matter how she may deceive herself to the contrary, she is deliberately catering to the animal passion of men. Beautiful and charming women of mind and character do not feel this urge to trade upon their "private charms." But the unintelligent and dubious female is invariably the one to make a bid for the only sort of attention she can hope to inspire. Theodore Maynard, now lecturing before the women's clubs upon the "Imminent Break-up of Civilization," defines civilization as that condition of a people founded upon justice and honor. It is not a question of brilliant inventions, of motor cars, telephones, magnificent hotels, luxury and comfort. It is essentially a state of refinement, culture and Honor. "I could not love thee, dear, so well, loved I not honor more." That Honor which is the very basis of civilization is essentially chaste. And civilized women must be the essential guardian of chastity and honor. Where women cater to the dishonorable and unchaste there can be no civilization, no sanctity of the home, which should be the very citadel of honor. Adam in Eden whined that Eve had demoralized him, Eve today whines that Adam and his war have demoralized her. They are both wrong and both culpable. And as in the old biblical story, God will hold both Adam and Eve responsible and both shall be driven from the Garden of Eden, our great modern civilization that is gaining all save honor, that keystone of the arch without which it must fall to ruin. And the modern unchastity of women's clothes, the crude, lewd, wholly indefensible appeal to man's lowest instincts, the deliberate trading on the unclean and the lustful side of human
CRIMINAL IMPROPRIETY. 305
nature, is, we repeat, a basic cause of that widespread dishonor and crime that are polluting civilization today. Surely there are enough decent, intelligent, noble-minded women left to halt this mad craze for criminal impropriety. Surely they can and will take the lead for purity, decency and honor, rather than be content to follow at long distance that road which leads to nothing but degradation for all humanity. Women, and only women, -can halt this mad delirium—this hideous craving for attention at any cost, at all cost. Where can it end, except in utter degradation, not only for their own sex, but for their husbands and their sons? This utter debasement of that precious heritage called "love" is the bitterest possible reflection upon our modern civilization. The sort of attraction these unchaste, nakedly adorned women "of fashion" hold out can never inspire that precious, priceless thing which "passeth all understanding," which survives all the travail of tribulation, that beautiful emotion that "age cannot wither nor custom stale," which radiates the dark places with shining light. "Oh, woman, lovely woman; nature made thee To temper man; we had been brutes without you; There's in you all that we believe of heaven, Amazing brightness, purity and truth, Eternal joy and everlasting love."
A RESURRECTION—To My Friend Grace Ingles Frost
When time was fraught with honors of the tomb, You came to me an angel in disguise; With patient care you soothed my pain racked brow, And by your touch brought to my tear-dimmed eyes A clearer vision, gifts divine to see.
Forth from a crysalis of somber gloom, And bade it live anew, Gave it the buoyant wings to soar Above the petty grovelings of earth, And face to face with God, it evermore Has glorified your name for its rebirth.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - te President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISA YATES ROBINSON - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - Secretary and Treasurer,
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A, F. Lund Mrs. Susa Young Gates Mrs. Lelene Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia Childs Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosanna C, Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - -. - -: Susa Young Gates Business Manager - - - S 5 - - Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager - -" - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. VIII MAY, 1921 No. 5.
THE OLD ORDER CHANGETH.
The death of President Anthon H. Lund left a wide gap in various church offices which have been filled wisely and expeditiously by President Heber J. Grant. President Charles W. Penrose, one of the truly great men of this day and age, is now the first counselor to President Grant, succeeding President Anthon H. Lund. His life has been an open book to the people of the Church almost from the beginning. Of English birth and childhood-training, he yet possesses the principles of growth, assimilation and adaptability, which made our new England fore-bears the rock ribbed foundation of this nation. President Penrose has integrity, pellucid frankness in thought and speech, a rigid standard of honor, with a sturdy independence of thought and speech which is crowned by a poetic fancy and charm that lends to his thought a poetic grace. President Penrose is a rare poet and a rarer statesman; a combination which makes him what he is, author, poet, publicist, preacher, and constitutes the elements of a character rarely found upon this earth. His home life began and still continues to radiate the same sweet simplicity of environment and
EDITORIAL. 307
modest routine which marked the domestic atmosphere of all the founders of this Church. Coming into his advanced responsibilities thus late in his years, he still transmits to every task the natural buoyancy and hope, garnered through years of looking sky-ward in every cross road of life. President Anthony W. Ivins has always been a man among men. Early responsibilities, exacting toil, difficult surroundings and constantly changing pioneer conditions have developed the character of Pres. Ivins as no soft conditions could possibly do; his rugged environment has sunk into the depths of his nature, and deepened his naturally retiring and reticent disposition. Circumstances and providence have mined the rich gold of his character, bringing out to the surface the wealth of initiative gravity, magnetism and organizing ability which in such environment sometimes produces greatness. Over his somewhat grave exterior there plays a quick humor which preserves the exquisite balance between stern justice and tender sympathy. His is a nature which calls instinctively for the exercise of the best that is in his associates if they would acquire and retain his friendship and respect. Those who have once met him will always hold his friendship and confidence in high esteem, and once gained, the friend would be reckless indeed who would risk the loss of so precious a treasure. No man, after the death of the statesman, Erastus Snow, has won more of the love and confidence of the people of this Church than has President Anthony W. Ivins. He brings to the council table of the First Presidency a tempered wisdom, a poised judgment, which sees the broad visions of life no less definitely in its relation to the individual than its application to the interests of the Church. The people and their leaders are fortunate in the choice of Brother Ivins for this noble position of trust and responsibility. President Rudger Clawson succeeds to the presidency of the " quorum of the twelve apostles. Elder Clawson is one of the quiet students of this Church who accomplishes much and says little about it. He has made numerous sacrifices for the gospel's sake and has proven his sterling integrity in the early days of his youth; himself a man of modest claim, only his intimate friends know how many things have been accomplished through his suggestion and under his trained mind. He is a friend to all classes of people, the humblest and highest alike share in his courteous regard; justice and mercy, truth and loyalty, garnish his character. He brings to his exalted position the long training and experience which have prepared him to act wisely and decide righteously in all matters which may come up for his decision. He is the friend of the people no less than he is a loyal supporter of his associate brethren in the council of the Twelve.
308.. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The appointment of Elder George F. Richards to the Presidency of the Salt Lake temple has met with the most generous response from all interested people. He has before taken a personal interest in the ordinance work of this temple -for a long time, going himself and engaging in the work for his dead as frequently as his many duties permitted. At the head of the Richards family organization, he has an important place, and his forceful wisdom carries forth the policy in that organization which is but the "carrying on" the beginnings of the temple work made by his illustrious father before him—Elder Franklin D. Richards. Elder George F. Richards has the rare combination of a powerful will with a gentleness of expression, suavity of manners, and simplicity of approach; his very appearance is ideal, in his present position, and the promise of that appearance is justified by the diligent application which he is now making to acquaint himself thoroughly with the minutest details of his new responsibility and work in the Salt Lake temple. He has engaged in the genealogical work in our society. All who come up for blessings in the sacred house of the Lord rejoice in the appointment of Elder George F. Richards, he has chosen his assistants wisely—Elders Joseph F. Smith and Albert Davis are his counselors. Elder Smith himself is thoroughly familiar with temple work both through tradition and the teachings of his noble father, the late President Joseph F. Smith, and through his own careful study of the problems contained in the daily exercise of temple functions. Gifted with his father's studious application to spiritual things, he has also inherited much of his father's wisdom and dignity. His occasional morning talks in the temple are gems of inspirational insight, and through his intellectual and spiritual application he is beloved by all who know him; and who is there that does not? Elder Joseph Fielding Smith has been named as the Church Historian and general Church Recorder. The position was held by his great-uncle, George Albert Smith, then by his father, then by Elder Franklin D, Richards, and then by our late lamented President Anthon H. Lund. Elder Smith brings to his task a great comprehension of the limitless scope of his work, and of the necessary human difficulties which lie in the way of the full development of this great Church institution. He has a keen appreciation of spiritual values, a wise adjustment of intellectual problems therein involved. He is as familiar with the history and traditions of this people as any man of his generation. He feeds the people that rare spiritual food for which they hunger and thirst, while his sermons and writings are as sound in doctrine as they are fruitful in thought. He will approach his new responsibilities with a conservative, yet happy, enthusiasm which augurs
EDITORIAL 309
well for the work entrusted to his care. His assistants, Elders, Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund and Junius F. Wells, are all fitted to render noble service in this important work of the Church. The choice of the new apostle, John A. Widtsoe, pleases many classes of our people; the family of Brigham Young are happy in the thought that a grand-son-in-law has been chosen to represent, in a way, the family in the leading quorum of the Priesthood. Dr. Widtsoe has for sometime been engaged in the labors of compiling and arranging the sermons of President Brigham Young as the first step in the preparation of his history which will follow in due course. He is beloved by all the Young family who repoice in this representation for them. He represents also his people, the Scandinavians of the Church, who have formed so strong a bulwark of righteousness and so loyal a pillar of strength in the up-building of this Church and kingdom. The Scandinavian people rejoice in the selection of Brother Widtsoe to fill the vacancy in the apostle's quorum left by the death of our late beloved leader and President, Anthon H. Lund. The best type of educational interests are also represented in the selection of Dr. Widtsoe. His new sphere will develop all the latent powers which may have been left untouched in his more circumscribed field of educational labors. His successor in the University has so far not been chosen, but he leaves his task in the state school with the hearty good will of all his co-workers and associates. WHAT DOES THE CHURCH OWE. ME? Women and men sometimes face situations, have trials, or are called on or are permitted to make sacrifices which seem to them, and to those who love them, to be unjust, humiliating and in the nature of ingratitude towards those who so suffer. These people ask how it is that brother or sister so-and-so is poor, or sick, or slighted by providence in this Church. Have not these unfortunates paid tithing faithfully, been good to the poor, sustained the Priesthood loyally, and generally kept the commandments? Then why should such faithful ones be forgotten, poor or sick? The answer to that vital question reaches in a way into the foundation of salvation, and I will not answer it here. Men. Are placed in high and honorable positions, and others are neglected or are even asked to resign. They who are neglected and their friends, sometimes suffer cruelly over such slights. And up springs the suggestion: 'Well, the Church owes me or you something. Look at the missions I have filled, the sermons I have preached, the long years of sacrifice and toil which I have given 310. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE loyally to the service of my people! Now see—this cruel humiliation is my only reward!' That is the human nature speaking. This weak vision, this selfish nature, this potent flesh cries out loudly in defense of what we hold to be our rights and privileges. How human we all are. How we suffer under humiliation or at the lash which cuts into our self-respect—or selfesteem—and which abases us in the eyes of our friends and in our own estimation. We are so human! But wait! What do I owe the Church? Turn the shield around. Let us honestly study the problem from another angle: What has the Church done for me? Let every man and woman ask these questions: "What have learned; how far along the upward road of progress have I come, through my privileges and opportunities for service in the Master's cause? Where would I be today if I had been wholly selfish, and devoted only to money and success?' Friends, love, peace, salvation—these are the glorious rewards which come from serving God; they are ours no matter how poor, how sick, or how humiliated we may be. Can we pay the price paid by the Savior? Be sure, O my heart, that no Saint would willingly injure you or see you suffer. We are all so bound up in one another's welfare and suffering that what hurts one hurts us all. After all, there is still another question which follows this. What is the best thing for the Church? Not what I may want or need, not how I may be advanced or forgotten, but what will be the best for the interests of the Church, as a whole or any of its interests? That. Question I must ask; and if its answer involves suffering, sickness, or even dependency for me and mine, that I must accept royally, bravely and without complaint. Nay more; if I know that some one has defrauded or injured me, if I am a Saint, I must pray for my temporary enemy, that his actions, thoughtless perhaps or even malicious, may be amply forgiven and that his soul. May not be corroded with his mistake. We are told to pray for those who despitefully use us. And especially is this true in this Church; for I must believe that no one, not one single man or woman, would wilfully injure or hurt me or you. Love, forgiveness to one another, courage to face each trial,—these are the corner stones, of Church service. There are those in the world who hate us but we must love one another. Only so can our long years of toil and struggle reach full reward and we be crowned with life everlasting. Entertainment Department A Teacher's Social Morag A delightful evening entertainment recently held in a ward, in one of the nearby stakes, was a teacher's social. The Social committee of the ward was in charge, and the invited guests included the bishopric, acting ward teachers, and their partners, Relief Society teachers and their husbands, the teacher's quorum, and the teachers from the grade school. The opening number was a hymn by the acting ward teachers, "Come, let us anew." After the invocation, the Relief Society sisters sang a duet and chorus, "The Relief Society," page 126, R. S. Song Book. A humorous dialogue followed, participated in by a ward teacher and the family he was visiting. The subjects discussed were the weather, politics, high cost of living, good roads, ete.— everything but the gospel. The following number was an earnest address on the duties of a ward teacher. The school furnished a solo and a reading, after which a Relief Society teacher read a paper which related the experiences, amusing and otherwise, of a pair of teachers visiting the families on their "beat." A visiting stake officer then gave a talk on the Relief Society teacher, her duties and privileges. Delightful musical numbers were rendered by the boys' glee club, (teachers quorum) after which an adjournment was made to the Relief Society rooms where refreshments were served. Games and dancing closed a very unique and successful evening's entertainment. GARDEN HINTS By L. M. Green To scare birds from your garden, or fruit trees, get a few discarded electric light bulbs and some pieces of broken mirror. L'ix them on a line near the ground. The slightest wind will move them, and they will glitter in the sunlight and will prove an effectual scarecrow.. Transplanting Tiny Seedlings Take a strong pen-point and run the pointed end into a long cork, or reverse the point in an old pen-holder thus forming a miniature trowel which will be found a handy tool with which to "prick out," or transplant, tiny seedlings. W. R. McDONALD, Pres. D. H. CANNON, Mgr. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling 4 Uses Roof Garden Chocolate (Sweetened) Cake Icing Bon Bon Dipping Hot Chocolate Eating New, different, delicious—Roof Garden Chocolate is a sweetened chocolate that is at once a dainty confection for eating, a bon bon coating, a rich drinking chocolate and an icing for cake. In any of its four uses, Roof Garden Chocolate requires no butter, no sugar, no eggs and no flavoring.. And it's absolutely no trouble. Complete and simple directions are on every package. McDonald's New York Chicago Salt Lake San Francisco BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices.. Call at our Burial Clothes Department. Room 22 Bishop's Building. Prompt attention given all out of town orders. TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month For the past TEN MONTHS. One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement.: Have You Seen It? Dependable The Deseret News Progressive The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine, of which they will be glad to dispose at the price quoted below: 12 Vols. Of 1915 Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1915 Leather Bound 2.00 1 Vol. Of 1918 Leather Bound 2.00 1 Vol. Of 1919 Leather Bound 3.00 10 Vols. Of 1920 Leather The officers are always Ls cc 3.00 and discuss business Heber J. Grant, President. Utah Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President.. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. "DELIVERED EVERYWHERE" Ice Cream Special attention given to parcel post candy orders The Utah State National Bank glad to meet customers plans with them.. Officers Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier, Avvin C. Strone, Assistant Cashier. P. O. Box 1713 The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine, of which they will be glad to dispose at the price quoted below: 12 Vols. Of 1915 Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. of 1915 Leather Bound 2.00 1 Vol. of 1918 Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols. Of 1919 Cloth Bound.. 2.75 6 Vols. Of 1920 Cloth Bound.. 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920 Leather Bound 3.00 15c Extra for postage. All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg. Salt Lake City,; Bound volumes of the Magazine make appropriate gifts. Salt Lake City Watch for Our New "Mountaineer" Strong Seam Overalls, Auto Suits, Kiddies' Allovers For Boys, Youths and Men. They don't rip; wear like leather. A SPLENDID ASSORTMENT OF CHURCH WORKS, VIEW BOOKS Utah Souvenirs in great variety GENUINE NAVAJO RUGS, MEXICAN ZARAPES, etc at the BUREAU OF INFORMATION Temple Block Salt Lake City, Utah Write for descriptive circular of INDIVIDUAL SACRAMENT SETS. A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language—a language understood by everybody. Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"—the kind they make at Phone Was. 2861 6 Main St, Salt Lake Lumiere Studio ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Rooms 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—I5c Single Copy. VOLUME VIII JUNE, 1921 NUMBER 6 The Relief Society Magazine Office is desirous of securing the following Magazines: 4 February numbers of 1916 4 May numbers of 1916 4 July numbers of 1916 4 September numbers of 1916 3 November numbers of 1916 4 December numbers of 1916 3 March numbers of 1917 4 February numbers of 1918 4 June numbers of 1918 2 January numbers of 1919 Will pay 20c per copy for any of the above. Send to: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Day's After the Day's Play Bread and milk after play. Good rollicking play gives the kiddies an enormous appetite. And good food makes them bright-eyed, ruddy-faced and happy. Their little stomachs need real food, like Bread, as much as their lungs need air. ROYAL BREAD The bread that made mother quit baking is a body-builder—and it tastes good. It has a natural wholesome flavor and a real food value. Buy it of your neighborhood grocer-and give a-plenty to the kiddies. Royal Baking Co. Salt Lake. The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop $100.00 For this Beauty. Takes 15 months to pay. Daynes Beebe Music Co 61-3-5 Main St Older that the state of Utah. Going to Entertain at Dinner? Let us enter your order and deliver it in a manner that will cause you to also give us your future orders—daily. "DICKINSON'S" The Quality Service Store. CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY 'GROCERIES. 680 East 2nd South Street. Hyland 60. We are in step with the declining Market. Latter-Day Saints Garments APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. 104 Light Summer Weight (Bleached).........$1.25 111 Light weight, cotton................ 1.50 120 Light weight, bleached.......... 1.65 160 Medium weight, cotton........ 1.75 122 Medium weight, bleached... 190 Heavy weight, cotton............ 2.50 124 Heavy weight, bleach 150 Extra white Mercs 116 Heavy wool, mixed 4.00 2.00 118 Extra heavy wool.................. 5.00 MODEL KNITTING WORKS No. 657 Iverson St. Salt Lake City, Utah What Do Your Children Read? Guiding children in their reading is a big, vital problem. There are so man, wholesome, inspiring volumes that you cannot afford to let them read anything trashy or cheap. Co-operate with our Juvenile Department. Let us suggest Books that are high class, Books that meet the personal tastes, adapted to various ages. Write for lists. Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street Ladies Tailoring and Dressmaking Alterations reasonable. 715 So. 8th E. Hy. 4152-W. Send your hemstitching, accordeon plaiting, buttons and dry cleaning by parcel post. Quick Service. Salt Lake's Leading Opticians LOUIS A. JAMES and DONALD C. JAMES OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS Globe Optical Company East 2nd South (Walker Bank Bldg.) Salt Lake City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
CONTENTS JUNE, 1921
Death of President Emmeline B. Wells and Appointment of President Clarissa Smith Williams................ 315 General Conference of Relief Society... Amy Brown Lyman 319 Funeral Services of President Emmeline B. Wells.......... 355 "Aunt Em".......--.000ee eee eeeLula Greene Richards 360 Relief Society Annual Report......... Amy Brown Lyman 361 Out of the World..... EeG. Milton: Babcock 364 Lines. 2.0... Eee ee eee eee eeeryGrace Ingles Frost 366 The Gospel in Armenia........... 000 eee cece necesl. Os To Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells............. Louise Coulson 369 Editorial: Vital Questions.......... 0.0.00 e cece ence eens 370 Book Notices......... BI © «.-- ee av 2 Twilight 22.0... Ccc eee ce eee eee eensMaud M. Cook 373 He Loves Me........ 00 eee eee eee eensAbbie R. Madisen 373
ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who patronize us.
BUREAU OF INFORMATION, Temple Block, Salt Lake City, Utah. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY, 305 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DICKINSON'S, 680 East Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. THE DESERET NEWS, Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. GLOBE OPTICAL CO., East Second South, Salt Lake City, Utah. KEELEY'S, Salt Lake City, Utah. LUMIERE STUDIO, Salt Lake City, Utah, 6 Main St. McDONALD CANDY CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, ROYAL BREAD CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City, Utah. Z. C. M. L, Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah.
Aunt " Em." By Lula Green Richards
This morning dawned a splendid April day, With chilly night a storm cloud passed away. As rose the sun a glorious diadem | Came Angel messengers for dear Aunt "Em."
And she was ready, even waiting here For transportation to a life of cheer, Of endless joy, of love and friendship free, Of untold blessedness for such as she.
Trials and sorrows let us not recall In her new life she triumphs over all, Eliza, Zina, Bathsheba are there, Let us in grateful thought their gladness share.
Let us bring flowers and sing Aunt "Em's" sweet songs— For mortal friends such tributes still belongs, While hosts and hosts who welcome her above High honors pay her faithfulness and love.
PRESIDENT EMMELINE B, WELLS
THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. VIII. JUNE, 1921. No. 6.
Death of President Emmeline B. Wells and Appointment of President Clarissa Smith Williams
The feelings of love and sorrow which fill the hearts of all members of the Relief Society with the passing of our great leader and wonderful president on Monday, April 25, 1921, will be tempered with a saintly gratitude that we have known and been associated so long with this pioneer Relief Society worker and leader. She deserved and enjoyed the confidence of all her associates, of the leaders of the Church, past and present, and she leaves behind a name that will never be effaced from the scroll of time. Her funeral services were held in the Tabernacle, April 29, and were in many respects, the most remarkable ever held for a woman in this Church, or in this generation.
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH (DESERET NEWS, APRIL 25, 1921)
Emmeline Blanch Woodward Wells was born on February 29, 1828, at Petersham, Worcester county, Mass., the daughter of David Woodward and Deiadama Hare Woodward. She graduated at a very early age from local and finishing schools, and at 15 was teaching school. She was baptized into the Church March 1, 1842, and was married the following year to James Harvey Harris. Moving to Nauvoo in 1844, the young couple were present during all the trying scenes connected with the martyrdom of Joseph Smith. In the apostacy that followed she was deserted by her husband and his family, and an added grief at this time was the death of her little son. In 1846 with the body of the
316 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Church, she started on the memorable western journey to Utah, and she remained, during the winter of 1847, at Winter Quarters, teaching school, as she had at Nauvoo, and taking care of her younger brother and sisters 'left orphans by the death of her mother. Becoming the wife of Bishop Newel K. Whitney, she came to Utah in 1848; and after his death, she married General Daniel H. Wells, in 1852. Of her six children, three survive her: Mrs. Isabel M. Sears and Mrs. Mell Woods, daughter of Bishop Whitney, and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, daughter of President Wells. She leaves a number of grandchildren, great-grandchildren and even great-great-grandchildren to rise up and call her blessed. As a writer, suffragist and teacher Mrs. Wells took an active part in the development of early day Utah. When the women of Utah were enfranchised in February, 1870, she was one of the first to exercise the ballot, and has never failed since that time to vote. For years she wrote over the nom de plume of "Blanche Beachwood" for the Woman's Exponent, and became editor and owner of that paper in 1877, retaining the office and performing the duties until the year 1914. In the very first days of the organization of the Relief Society in Utah, she became interested in that great Church auxiliary and she also aided in the organization of the Y. L. M. I. A. And Primary associations. She served as corresponding secretary of the General Relief Society, under President Zina D. Young, later became general secretary, and in 1910 was unanimously chosen fifth president of that organization which office she has retained until three weeks ago. In' 1874 she was appointed Utah vice-president of the National Woman's Suffrage Association, and attended many of the national conferences, speaking before various national bodies in the interest of women and children. Many of these speeches were widely copied and quoted. She represented the state at the National Woman's Suffrage Association in January, 1879, at Washington, D. C.; in 1882, at Omaha; in 1885, at Washington, D. C.; in 1895, Atlanta, Georgia, where her speech on the Utah's prospective admission to statehood was greatly applauded; in 1897, at DesMoines; in 1902, at Washington. She also took an active part in the National Council of Women, appearing before that body in 1895, and was the first western woman to be elected an officer of that council, attending the International Council session in London in 1899. In 1876 she was given a special mission by President Brigham Young to lead the women of the Church in the gathering and the saving of grain. This mission she carried out so faithfully that at the time of the great World War the society was able, through
DEATH OF PRESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS 317
ment erected to birds in the world—the Seagull Monument on Temple Square. Have been collected and published in separate volumes. She was founder and first President of the Utah Woman's Press Club, and later Honorary President. This body of cultured women took the initiative in the securing of the doctor's degree which was conferred upon Mrs. Wells ten years ago, by the Brigham Young address and tribute from President Joseph F. Smith, President of the Board of Trustees. The Press Club women also took up the Publication of Mrs. Well's poems, Musings and Memories, which Was carried to a successful issue and which remains the delicate intimate revealings of a refined, sensitive soul. Her remarkable recollection of important events connected with the early history of the Church and of the state, and her intellectual attainments and latterly her apartment in the Hotel Utah, were the Mecca of distinguished visitors, statesmen, soldiers, authors, and publicists, writers, to Say nothing of thousands of admiring friends; teresting autographs headed by the United States presidents and foreign officials, of the highest ranks, than any other like volume Her birthday receptions tendered for Years by the general board of the Relief Society have also been gatherings at which the State's greatest, distinguished citizens have gathered to pay their respect to "Aunt Em." ven of late, despite her advanced years, few public gatherings of importance were regarded as complete without the Presence of the wonderful little woman who for so
318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
last public appearance was at the reception in honor of her 93rd birthday, given by the Relief Society Board at the Hotel Utah, February 28. The later years of her life have been spent, at her own desire, at the Hotel, on the spot where nearly three-quarters of a century ago, she first camped upon arriving in the Great Salt Lake Valley. A month ago she removed to the residence of her daughter, Mrs. John Q. Cannon, where loving hands, and the tireless and devoted ministrations of her medical adviser, Dr. George F. Middleton, as well as scores of personal visits from her former associates, and her long time friends, have made her last days as comfortable and peaceful as possible.
REORGANIZATION
With the passing of President Emmeline B. Wells, and indeed before she departed this life, the Presidency and Twelve Apostles found it wise and expedient to reorganize the General Officers and Board of the Relief Society, owing to the long illness and general debility of President Emmeline B. Wells. With the reorganization quite a number of the members of the board who had labored long and faithfully with Mrs. Wells were released; some because of age, others because of distance and absence, and some because of other cares and burdens which prevented their continuance. To each and every noble sister who has been so released, beginning with our long loved and faithful Julina L. Smith and ending with her able and loyal daughter, Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Mrs. Rebecca Neibaur Nibley, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon. Miss Sarah Eddington, call the roll of the released noble women who have rendered distinguished services, not only in the Relief Society itself but in every line of domestic, social and spiritual endeavor known to the women of this people. Each has been valiant in testimony and strong in courage, patient in affliction and filled with the love of Christ and his work upon the earth. We part with them with mingled joy and regret and look confidently to Eternity to catch up the broken threads of our sweet association and knit them into a perfect companionship that will persist through the endless ages of eternity.
DEATH OF PRESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS 319
There have been five general presidents of the Relief Society. The first was Emma Hale Smith who was in office from 1842-46: the second was Eliza R. Snow, who was president from 1856-87; then came Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, who was president from 1887- 1901. Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith from 1901-1910; President Emmeline B. Wells was chosen by President Joseph F. Smith, in October, 1910, to act as General President of the Relief Society, but she did not call her board together nor qualify by action of that General Board until May 25, 1911; Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams was chosen by the Presidency and Twelve on April 1, 1921, and becomes General President of the Relief Society. It is an interesting fact to know that, with the exception of our late President Emmeline B. Wells, all of the General Presidents of the Relief Society have belonged to the Prophet Joseph Smith's family, either by birth or marriage.
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY
* Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary
The outstanding feature of the Relief Society Annual Conference, which was held on April 1 and 2, was the reorganization of the General Board by the First Presidency of the Church, which took place on April 2 at the general sessions. President Heber J. Grant and President Anthony W. Ivins were in attendance and effected the reorganization which was made unanimous by the congregation. The officers and members of the General Board were honorably released and were heartily commended for their faithful and painstaking service. Special attention was called to the long and untiring labors of President Emmeline B. Wells, Counselor Julina L. Smith, and the older members of the Board who have given a large portion of their lives to the Relief Society cause. The reorganization was thought necessary because of the advanced age of some of the members, because of absence from the city, ill health, and pressing duties and responsibilities of others. The officers and board members released were: Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, General President, Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor, Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Second Counselor, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Corresponding Secretary, Mrs. Emma A. Empey, General Treasurer, Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Mrs.
320 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Elizabeth C. Crismon, Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde, Miss Sarah Eddington, Miss Lillian Cameron, Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams, First Counselor to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, was appointed President of the Relief Society, with Mrs. Jennie Brimhall Knight, of Provo, and Mrs. Louisa Yates Robison, of the Granite stake, as first and second counselors, respectively. The other members appointed to the new Relief Society Board were as follows: Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde, Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Miss Lillian Cameron, Mrs, Annie Wells Cannon, Mrs. Lalene Hart, Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, Mrs. Julia Child, Mrs. Cora Bennion, Mrs. Julia A. F, Lund, Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans, Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith, Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards, Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. On Friday, April 1, two conference meetings were held for general and stake officers, at 10 a. M. And 1 p. M. In the auditorium of the Bishop's Building. On Saturday, April 2, general sessions were held for all Relief Society workers and the public, in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, at 10 a. M. And 2 p. M. At the General Officers' Meeting there were 345 workers in attendance, as follows: 17 General Board members, 55 stake presidents, including one mission president, Mrs. Florence R. Knight, of the Western states; 64 stake counselors, 25 stake secretaries, 9 stake treasurers, 15 stake choristers, 6 stake organists, 154 stake board members. At the general sessions in the Assembly Hall, there were present at the morning session 2,115, and at the afternoon session 2,500. The ushers for the conference were furnished by Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, president of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society, stake board members serving at the general officers' meeting, and ward presidents at the general sessions in the Assembly Hall. These ushers were prompt and affable, and seated the large audiences with dispatch and without confusion. Mrs, Lizzie Thomas Edward, chorister of the Relief Society, was in charge of the music for all of the sessions, The selections throughout were beautiful and well chosen, and the splendid singing of the Relief Society choir was remarked on every hand, The final number by the choir, "Unfold, ye portals" was a fitting climax, not only to the music of the conference, but also to the conference itself. In this number the choir was accompanied by Miss Mae Anderson and her pupils, with stringed instruments.
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 321
Miss Edna Coray, organist, gave exquisite opening and closing numbers on the Assembly Hall organ. Aside from the singing by the choir, the following special numbers were given: violin solo, by Professor Willard Weihe, accompanied by Professor John J. McClellan; soprano solo, Mrs. Margaret Caine Patrick; baritone solo, Mr. Thomas Birshell; solo, Mrs. Samuel Divett; duet, Mrs. Eva Aird and Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas. 'On Friday noon a cafeteria luncheon was served to the stake workers by the General Board, and on Friday evening an entertainment was given in their honor at the Social Hall theatre, where the play of 'Little Women" was enacted by the University of Utah players under the supervision of Miss Maud May Babcock.
MORNING SESSION
The Friday morning session was opened with singing, "Our mountain home so dear." After prayer by Mrs. John M. Knight, the congregation sang, "Zion stands with hills surrounded." In the absence of President Emmeline B. Wells, who was confined to her home on account of illness, Counselor Clarissa S. Williams presided over the meetings of the conference. In her opening remarks she expressed deep regret that President Wells was not able to be with us. She asked those in the congregation to remember the President in their hearts and in their prayers. An affectionate welcome and greeting was extended by Counselor Williams, who expressed the great appreciation of the General Board for the faithful and efficient work of those in charge of the various stakes and wards in the Church. Relief Society work is hard and trying, but if we are filled with the Spirit of the Lord, and with the spirit of service, the way will be opened for the accomplishment of good. Mrs. Williams expressed pleasure. With the progress made in the organization during the last year, and predicted a great future for the Relief Society. The founder of the organization, no doubt, had a view of the great work to be accomplished, and the members have a responsibility in perpetuating and carrying forward the work. Mrs. Williams called attention to the position of the Relief Society in the Church, and expressed appreciation for the interest and support of the Priesthood. Mrs, Sarah Jenne Cannon spoke of her connection with the Relief Society since girlhood, and of the struggles through which the organization has gone in pressing forward. She mentioned the great work that has been done in the past in caring for those who were sick, and of the loving service for the dead. She also pictured briefly some of the possibilities of the future. Dr. Romania B. Penrose expressed her great appreciation for
322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the gospel of Jesus Christ and also for the great work of the Relief Society. This organization, she declared, had not only provided a means whereby those in need and distress might be comforted, but had given opportunity to thousands of women to grow and develop and become leaders in the community. The great work of the Relief Society is among the needy, the neglected, the sick and the afflicted. It takes great energy to perform this service, and the speaker recommended that younger women be drawn into the work, in order to accomplish the greatest amount of good. As one of the older members, Dr. Penrose felt the need of retiring and giving way to those who are younger and stronger and more able to do the work that devolves on Relief Society women. Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox expressed her great pleasure in meeting with the officers of the Relief Society. She felt that any cause would be sure to succeed with such a group of united workers. In speaking of our duties, Mrs, Wilcox urged the necessity of doing first that duty which lies close at hand. Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley was delighted to be at home again after a rather lengthy sojourn in California. She spoke of her 54 years of service in the organization, and emphasized the need of younger workers. She said that service, unity, and obedience, are the main features to guide L. D. S. Women. Mrs. Nibley reported the branches in the California mission as being in good condition with efficient leaders and enthusiastic members. Mrs. Emily S. Richards said she had been privileged in knowing the great women who started the organization, and told of their great faith and gifts through faith. She paid tribute to these women and also to other great women of the world, whom she had met, and mingled with in various causes.. She felt that the success of the Relief Society is due largely to the spirit of unselfishness, of love, and charity that permeates the entire organization. Mrs. Donnette S. Kesler paid a loving tribute to the work of the older members of the General Board of Relief Society, and the older workers in the stakes and wards who have given a great deal of their lives in the service. She spoke of the responsibility resting upon all workers, and urged her hearers to avoid criticizing others in their labors. She called attention to the fact that people are not all alike—some have many talents while others have few talents. Some have talents along one line, and some have talents along another line. The responsibility of each individual is to cultivate his talents and double them, and he who does this will be duly rewarded. Sarah M. McLelland called attention to the fact that when Solomon was called to lead Israel he kneeled down and asked
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 323
God to give him wisdom. All leaders and workers should, through humility, seek wisdom, in order that the work assigned to them shall grow and accomplish those things which are designed for such work. Miss McLelland declared that her ten years of service on the General Relief Society board had given her riches beyond description. A Miss Lillian Cameron spoke of the needs of the Relief Society and emphasized the necessity of training our young women to take up the work. _ Mrs. Emma A. Empey congratulated the organization on the splendid work which has been accomplished in the past, but stated that there is bigger, better, and broader work to be done in the future. She felt that the work is much more important than the individuals who do the work, and wherever true leadership is manifested, it should be fostered. If one person can do a piece of work better than others, he should be encouraged and supported in the interest of such work. In speaking of welfare work, Mrs. Empey suggested that we fit ourselves by training and study to do the work in the very best possible way. Stake and ward presidents should learn to be good managers. They should not do all the work themselves, but should draft others for special work. Relief Society officers should be generous in their appreciation of the efforts of those over whom they preside and should always be willing to give credit wherever it is due. Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde emphasized the importance of absolute harmony in the organization. We may have different view points on the same thing, as we are all different in our temperament and capacity, but when action is finally decided upon by the organization we should lay aside our likes and dislikes and put our whole hearts in the accomplishment of that which is desired. Every Church worker should be in harmony with his bishop, and should give full support to whatever is signified as important for the organization as a whole. Mrs. Hyde said that a person sometimes asks himself, "What does the Church owe me?" Instead of this question, one should ask, "What do I owe the Church?" for she declared we are all indebted to the Church; first of all, for the gospel itself with its blessings, then for the training which it gives. We are also indebted to the Church for the wonderful opportunity which it gives to every willing worker. All Latter-day Saints owe all they are and all that they have to the Church. After singing, "Onward, Christian soldiers" and prayer by Mrs. Annie C. Hindley, president of the Alpine stake, the meeting was adjourned until 1 p. M.
324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Friday afternoon meeting was opened with congregational singing: "Guide us, O thou great Jehovah." Prayer was offered by Mrs. Elizabeth G. Ford, president of the South Davis stake, after which the congregation sang, "Come, thou glorious day of promise." The annual financial and statistical report of the organization was given by the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, who announced that the report will be printed in full in the June number of the Relief Society Magazine. Mrs. Lyman called special attention to the fact that charity donations last year, amounted to $85,336.55, which is nearly $15,000 more than was donated last year, $28,000 more than was donated the year before, and $30,000 more than was donated three years ago. The total net resources of the organization are $872,216.39; $12,575 more days were spent with the sick last year than the year previous, and 24,532 more visits were made to the sick. The increase in the number of days spent in temple work over last year, is 23,280 days. During last year, the actual membership in the Relief Society, increased from 45,413 to 48,204. The membership of the Relief Society in the various stakes and missions was given as follows: Utah, 28,171 members; Idaho, 9,360; Arizona 1,789; Wyoming, 1,245; Canada, 980; Colorado, 407; Nevada, 239; Oregon, 228; Juarez, Mexico, 124; total in stakes and wards, 42,543. Membership in missions: European mission, 1,959; California, 723; Hawaiian, 590; Southern States, 411, New Zealand, 339; Northern States, 292; Central States, 284: Northwestern States, 273; Eastern States, 220: Western States, 217; Samoan, 135; Tahitian, 114; Canadian, 59; Mexican, 36; total 5,661. The largest stake Relief Society in the Church in point of numbers is the Utah stake with a membership of 28,171, and the smallest is Morgan, with a membership of 191. The secretary called attention to the fact that the reports that came in from the stakes and wards are better and more accurate than they have ever been before. Twenty stakes sent in perfectly compiled reports, 17 stakes with one error, 10 stakes with 2 errors, 6 with 3, 5 with 4, 3 with 5. There were only four stake reports containing 10 or more errors. Since the last Relief Society conference, three new stakes have been organized. North Sevier and South Sevier, which were taken from the Sevier stake; and Garfield stake, which was formerly a part of Panguitch stake. The following reorganizations have taken place: Carbon stake was reorganized on September 26. Mrs. Pauline A. Pace was honorably released, and Mrs. Isabelle B. Bryner, appointed president; North Sanpete, on October 23. Mrs. Wilhelmina H. Erickson released, and Mrs.
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 325
Elizabeth L. Christensen appointed president. Ogden stake, reorganized December 26, 1920. Mrs. Ida M. Treseder appointed to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mrs. Isabelle B. Foulger. Deseret stake, reorganized, March 27. Mrs. Mary M. Lyman honorably released, Mrs. Alice L. Gardner appointed president. Counselor Julina L. Smith reviewed briefly the work of the Relief Society organization, mentioning' the former presidents and calling attention to the fact that President Emmeline B. Wells had been associated with all of them. She spoke of the modern methods of dress and deplored the fact that many young women who are really modest dress in such fashion as to give the impression of more or less immodesty. Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas made some comments on the secretary's report, expressing appreciation for the growth and development of the work. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon explained the work of the Fine Arts Society of Utah, and felt that the Relief Society women generally should be behind every movement which has for its object enlightenment and development. The object of the society is to create interest in and love for art. Membership in the society is $3, $10 and $25 a year, respectively. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams discussed various Relief Society problems and answered questions which were handed in from the audience. The following extracts are taken from her remarks: In recording temple work, all days spent by Relief Society women in temple work should be recorded. This will not interfere in any way with stake and ward genealogical committees. Where two names are worked for during one day, it is recorded as two days' work. Non-members of the Church may become readers of the Relief Society, but cannot hold office, and cannot vote. Stake and ward workers should call at their community libraries for the Relief Society Magazine, and also for books for supplementary reading required in the educational department of the Relief Society. Last year the Relief Society worked for an increase in membership; this year we should work for increased attendance. Ward conferences held in each ward one each year stimulate interest. These may be held as Sunday meetings where permissible. One stake recommends the lending of Relief Society Magazines to non-members of the society. Another stake recommends an enlistment committee in each ward, consisting of one, two, or three members, whose duty it is to work for additional members and for better attendance.
326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
It was reported this year in several of the stake conferences that many of the Relief Society block teachers do not attend meetings, and that after making their visits they report to the president over the telephone. This should not be the case. Relief Society teachers should attend meetings regularly. In one ward the work of the teachers was improved by placing one of the older sisters and one of the younger ones together for visiting. Where stake or ward officers are absent from the stake and ward for any length of time, they should consult the priesthood with regard to resigning their position. Relief Society women should not hold office in both the stake and ward. It is not advisable for a woman to be a stake board member and a ward president at the same time. For convenience and efficiency in stakes, the president, secretary, and treasurer, should be chosen from the same town. In one stake the stake officers were chosen from all of the wards, which were very scattered, and as a result it has been impossible for this stake to hold any stake board meetings. In selecting officers two things, among others, should be considered: first, time; Second, ability. Stake board meetings should be held in every stake at least once a month, and oftener if possible. Union meeting, or stake and local officers meetings should be held once a month if possible. Where communities are too scattered, it is suggested that two or three wards contiguous to each other, hold a district meeting, with stake officers in attendance, whenever possible. If not feasible, to hold these monthly, they should be held quarterly, or semi-annually. Women should not quilt for nothing and then sell the quilts for cost of material to people who are able to pay full price for the quilt and the work. There is no objection to people working for nothing for people who are unable to pay for such service. The matter came up in a stake conference of placing valuation on the time of the women who assist in making quilts at the work meetings. It was reported that eight women spent two afternoons quilting a quilt for the work of which they charged only $1.50. This averaged about six cents per day per woman. The General Board feels that this indicates rather poor business methods and recommends that where quilts are made for sale, to people who are perfectly able to pay a reasonable price for the work, that such a price should be charged for the labor. The argument is sometimes brought up that the Relief Society is a charitable organization and should be willing to give its services: but because the Relief Society is a charity organization. And needs funds with which to carry on its work, the service of the women
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 327
should not be given for nothing to people who can afford to pay for it, as by so doing, the funds for relief work are greatly reduced. The General Board feels that poor business methods should not be used in connection with these problems in the Relief Society, and while it is thought that service should be given freely wherever necessary, still the organization should not be imposed upon by people who are perfectly able to pay for service. In this connection it was reported that in some instances Relief Society women who are compelled to earn their own living, often work late at night on burial clothing for people who are perfectly able to pay for this work. Work meetings are recreational in a measure. In one stake socials are held occasionally on work day. In one stake old clothes are collected by boy scouts, cleaned and washed, ripped up and remade in the work meetings. The question was asked: 'How should they be sustained?" and was answered as follows: After the minutes are read, it is proper for the president to say, "You have heard the minutes; are there any corrections to them?' If there are no corrections and no objections, the minutes will be approved as read. The question was asked with regard to marking the attendance of stake officers, and the answer was that stake officers, when attending their own ward meetings, in the capacity of ward members, should be marked on the roll the same as other members, but when stake officers visit officially for the stake, whether in their own ward or any other ward, they should be counted as stake officers present. Mrs, Williams stated that several questions had been asked with regard to the charity and relief work in the organization. She reported that a general Church committee is working at present on plans of cooperation between the ward Bishopric and the ward Relief Society, and that as soon as some definite rulings are made in the matter, the Relief Society women will be notified. The secretary reported that auxiliary group conventions will be held this year in all of the stakes of the Church excepting eleven, these conventions to be held in connection with the stake quarterly conferences. The period for these group conventions will be August, September and October. The secretary urged the stake workers to see that ward Relief Societies who have wheat deposits in the Presiding Bishop's office take care of their wheat receipts. It was learned this year that there are several wards in the Church where Relief. Society officers have either mislaid their wheat receipts or have lost them, and in two instances the present officers were not aware of the fact that the ward had wheat deposited at the P. B. O. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams announced that the L. D. S. Hospital is desirous of securing students for the next regular,
328: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
three-year hospital course, which is to begin early in the summer. Applicants for admission into the school should be eighteen years of age, and should have at least one year of high school credit. Relief Society officers were asked to announce this course throughout their stakes and to recommend the course to the young women of the community. "Mrs. Williams stated that definite announcement will be made later with regard to the Relief Society nurse course, which it is hoped will continue to be conducted in connection with the L. D. S. Hospital. After singing by the congregation, the benediction was offered by Mrs. Ida M. Treseder.
GENERAL SESSION, SATURDAY MORNING
Counselor Clarissa S. Williams in opening the general sessions said: We are very pleased to have this opportunity of meeting with you again in our General Conference. It seems that it is impossible to meet always without some regrets, and we do regret that our beloved President, Emmeline B. Wells, is not in a physical condition to be with us this morning. We trust that you will keep her memory in your hearts, pray for her that the Spirit of the Lord may be round about her, that she may be comforted and blessed and uplifted. It is not necessary for me to recount the anxiety which she feels for the good of the organization. Her works are an open book before the women and the men, too, of the Latter-day Saints. Her life has been devoted to the upbuilding of the Church. She has been ever valiant in seeking to uplift women and her name is known throughout the length and breadth of the land. Her message yesterday given to the Relief Society workers was that love is the greatest thing in the world. I think our Savior exemplified that in his life and mission to the world. In his teachings there always prevailed the spirit of love and peace, and where there is love there is every other attribute, because love is predicated on the other attributes which go to make up our lives. Peace and harmony are some of the great attributes, and if we are not harmonious with each other, if we cannot live in peace together, if we cannot enjoy each other's spirits and live harmoniously, there can be no love such as love should be among us. Perhaps it is not always that we are able to bring our spirits into subjection, so that we may do the things that in our hearts we know are the proper things to do, but we women, who have devoted our lives to the work of this great organization are in as good a position to be able to fully carry out what love means as any women upon the face of the earth.
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 329
We are gratified, my dear sisters and fellow workers, with what has been accomplished by our organization during the past year. We feel to commend each and every one, every member of the organization, every teacher, every officer and all of the priesthood, who have assisted us in our labors, for this past year has been the greatest year of all for the work of the Relief Society. It is almost phenomenal what has been accomplished in the way of looking after those who are in need mentally and physically, and otherwise, and we feel to bless you, dear sisters, and to say to you that our heavenly Father will bless you if you keep his Spirit to be with you, if you work selfsacrificingly, and if your only desire is for the good of mankind and the upbuilding of the kingdom. You have the love and the blessings and the confidence of the General Board and the officers of the organization. Their visits to you during the past year have been filled with joy. You have received them with love and with confidence, you have made it easy for them to perform their labors among you, and if they have meant as. Much to you in their visits as you have meant to them in the broadening of their lives, great good has been accomplished through their visits. We hope to be able, during this coming year, to do as good work or even better, because progress is what we aim for—progress and efficiency. We are becoming more efficient day by day; we seem to comprehend the' duties which we have to perform more and more, and I believe we are all endeavoring to live nearer to our heavenly Father, and endeavoring to. Keep his commandments and have his Spirit to be with us, and to keep humble, to keep our hearts pure and to keep always in the paths of truth and righteousness. I greet you with love and joy and say unto you, be faithful in your labors and our heavenly Father will bless you in the work you are doing, and also in your homes, that you may have influence with your families and those about you. Susa Young Gates spoke on "Literature in the Relief Society:" The General Board decided last year that a study of our hymns, as contained in our hymn book, would be profitable to our sisters. Things become commonplace to us very quickly, 'you know, and the old adage that "familiarity breeds contempt" really expresses a fundamental law of human nature. We have to be brought back from that familiar attitude, if we are going to observe a common fact or a condition intelligently, and to keep focusing the eye and our point of view on the wider vision of truth and on the better application of what we may be discussing and what may go into our lives as part of our life work.
330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
We have sung the hymns in this book all our lives and I doubt if any body in the room except perhaps Sisters Edwards and Coray would be able to tell when the hymn book was first published and under what circumstances. Music is a part of religious worship; it was before we came to earth and will be after we leave, and yet we pay little attention to the details of that worship. In 1851, forty-eight thousand hymn books had been published and sold in Great Britian for the Church. President Brigham Young was appointed by the Prophet Joseph Smith to prepare the first edition of the hymn book in the old country, in 1840. Our first president of the Relief Society, Sister Emma Hale Smith had been appointed by revelation in 1830, to make a collection of hymns and the Lord said in that revelation: "that the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and shall be answered with a blessing upon your head," but up to that time, 1840 she had not done so. Later she did publish a hymn book, and the Reorganites have it today. My father was appointed, and, assisted by Parley P. Pratt and John Taylor, he prepared the first edition of the hymns in 1840. A hymn is a song of praise to God; all the pagan world use hymns. All of the savages use some form of music, both for war and for love, for sorrow and mourning, as well as worship of their Deity. In the study of the ancient history of hymnology, we find very little definite information except what is contained in Hebrew literature. The history of hymnology since the Reformation or a few centuries before that, when the monks began using it is all we know. The Hebrew music must have been in a very high state of cultivation by the time Solomon's temple was dedicated. We are told in the Bible itself of the three thousand singers in the temple at that dedication; Josephus tells us there were forty thousand harpists, and two hundred thousand players on the lute in the temple, besides the singers. Only the priesthood were permitted to make music as a definite part of the temple services. All musicians were Levites, and the boys grew up into their musical life. There was a time when women helped to sing, for in the dedication services as reported in Kings and Chronicles, especially in Chronicles, we are told there were women singers as well as men singers. Eventually they dropped out until the second temple dedication in Ezra's day when they took some part. We have never been able to discover that any part singing was done anciently; the harps and the lutes carried on the same simple melody as the voice. There was no rhythm or any division into bars of music. None of the old Hebrew music contains that pointed rhythm that we have in song to day, and as you read the Bible there is no particular point division; it is all blank verse,
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 331
and they would chant the words and the melody would run along without any pointing. There was no bass, alto, nor tenor parts, so far as we know. But it must have been a magnificent sight as the choir began marching up the temple terraces until they reached Solomon's porch, where they passed the Gate Beautiful, while all the people were kneeling in the courts and all were bowed down all through the city of Jerusalem— bowed in worship, listening to this music. They had two or more choirs and it was arranged so that one choir would sing, and then the response would come from another choir, and finally they would unite while the people would chant responses. It was likely that Moses copied some musical customs from the Egyptians, for we know that the Assyrians and all the ancient people contained bodies of musicians with all kinds of instruments which are shown by the pictures of ancient people. Down to the Reformation in the sixteenth century, all of the music in the Catholic Church was sung by men and boys as it is today. The boys' beautiful tender voices are very popular in this Church. But when Luther came along with his Reformation, he decided that the music in the churches was going to be universal, and so he wrote some hymns and the Wesleys and different reformers made music, and then was instituted the fourpart singing. There was very little printing then, but Luther managed to get song books printed for people, and they learned to sing, and they did as our people did when they first began to write hymns. They chose popular minstrel tunes and sometimes a little thread of music from the Catholic choirs and these were woven together and made into a little ordinary congregational singing. None of the Protestant people except the Episcopalians, or Church of England, and Methodist-Episcopalians use the service which the Catholics appropriated or inherited in a way from the Hebrew temple service. The Catholics have long rituals with singing in between and then answers or responses from the people. Several of our sisters, President Clarissa Smith Williams, Sister McCune and others were in Rome and attended a celebration where the Pope received some German Catholics and they all knelt down, (except us) and the Pope stood there in a little inner court and he sang and the people sang "amen." It was very dramatic and yet quite devotional. No matter who worships God, we can listen and praise with them. The churches of the Reformation introduced and have preserved the congregational singing very largely. Our people came out of the reformed churches, and yet the Prophet did not approve of many of the hymns that were sung because their words did not harmonize with truth. Some of the first hymns we have were written by W. W. Phelps, Parley P. Pratt (that
332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
wonderful poet, Eliza R. Snow, and others of our hymn writers, who took up this work; some sectarian hymns were selected that were appropriate in spirit and content and put into the first edition of the hymn book. I hear our elders sometimes when I am out in the mission field talk about "Mormon" hymns and they quote, "God moves in a mysterious way" and "How firm a foundation," but they are not "Mormon" hymns. We should know which are "Mormon" hymns and which are not. Yet all proper words and good music can be enjoyed whether it belongs to us or to those not of us. The literature of hymns is necessarily controlled by the history and the environment of the hymn writers. We have hymns to begin service with and to close with; hymns for burial and temple services; but all these types are contained in the hymns of the world, as well as in our own hymns. Our hymns, or sacred songs, should be as purely poetry as possible. What is poetry? A simple definition is: Poetry is beautiful thoughts, beautifully expressed. People may have beautiful thoughts, and not know how to express them and visa versa. There must be a sentiment of the worship of God in a hymn. We have studied of our own hymns, "The morning breaks, the shadows flee" and "Softly beams the sacred dawning." Here is one written by some one in the world, "Captain of Israel's Host." Our Savior is really a kind of captain of all the people who worship him; we live under the shadow of the sky and clouds which encircle the throne. This thought is expressed beautifully in the hymn. Notice the rhythm: "Captain of Israel's Host, and Guide of all who seek the land above, Beneath the shadow abide—The clouds of thy protecting love." When these images are suggested, your mind should follow the words and you should see in your mind the "Captain of Israel's Hosts." Picture these things in your mind instead of just singing the words because the leader wants the congregation to sing. Then here is another beautiful poem, "Praise ye the Lord! My heart shall join in work so pleasant, so divine, Now while the flesh is my abode (there is a whole sermon in that one line) and when my soul ascends to God." And the last verse: "Why should I make a man my trust? Princes must die and turn to dust; Their breath departs, their pomp and power and thoughts, all vanish in an hour." Now vision it all in your mind as the words give it. Here is another which shows the beauty of verse: "The morning breaks; the shadows flee." Say it in prose: It is coming morning; daylight's coming. The shadows flee! What makes the shadows flee? When the sun comes up, it drives out the mist. You sometimes have to tell a long story in prose to bring out the same thought that can be said in poetry in a single line. GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 333 The morning breaks, the shadows flee; Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled. The dawning of a brighter day, Majestic rises on the world. Consider well the beautiful thoughts expressed so beautifully here. Now what are prosy hymns? Some of our own hymns are prosy. "Come, come, ye Saints" has a lot in it that isn't poetry, and yet it is one of the most inspirational hymns in all our Church. There are words that are prosy, some words are beautiful, and express in imagery the thought. I want to say something of the cultivation of our taste. We are getting along in years, but there is no reason why we should not study. You should take this hymn book, study it and cultivate a taste for beautiful thoughts beautifully expressed. Learn to think for yourself; think your own thoughts; don't think other people's. Cultivate an instinctive feeling for the value of words. I don't know a person who has such a keen perception of words as Sister Wilcox. If she makes a mistake in the shading of a word she always goes back and corrects it, Try and think of the music (although I have not time to tell you all about that.) Words arouse thought, but music stirs emotion, and if the words are poetry they also arouse emotion. That is what song is for. Can you imagine a soldier going out to war without the band playing the music? Even the savage fighter had his music with him. In funerals when they begin the music, your heart is torn with the emotion that is aroused. Don't you think the evil one knows the powers of music on emotions? Wrong thoughts are aroused by sensuous music. Tolstoy wrote a whole novel on the evil sentiments aroused by some music forms. There should be an appropriateness between the music that is composed, the words that are used, the emotions to be aroused, and then with the place and time of its use. I am not very fond of hearing love songs in religious gatherings; they have their time and place; but I do not like to hear them in religious services. When we gather in our sacred meetings we gather for one especial purpose, and that is the worship of God, and we spend little enough time thinking of our Father in heaven. Busy as I am in the in the temple and busy as I am in the Relief Society, nevertheless, I think but a few moments a day of my Father in Heaven; I rarely think of him except when I get down on my knees to pray, or unless I want something during the day time and get down on my knees again. I want to give you a partial list of some of the "Mormon" hymn-writers who are poets: Parley P. Pratt; Eliza R. Snow, "Oh my Father;" John Jaques, "O say, what is Truth?" 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Alexander Neibaur, with his "Come, oh, thou glorious day of promise." (There is a sermon in every line of that exquisite poem, set as it is to the lovely music.) Henry W. Naisbitt, W. W. Phelps. Aunt Emmeline B. Wells has written one beautiful song. Containing beautiful poetry, and that is "Our mountain home so dear" and there is not an elder on the street corners anywhere who is not familiar with it. Emily Hill Woodmansee has expressed beautiful thoughts in beautiful language. Among non-"Mormon" writers: Wesley, Watts, Kirkham, Montgomery, (who wrote "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire.") Cowper ("God moves in a mysterious way") which is marvelous, and many others. Choose the old hymns, as a rule, and avoid such cheap music and poor poetry as Moody and Sanky hymns. Cultivate love for the fine classical poetry and words. Lovely "Mormon" hymns are "The morning breaks," "Earth with her ten thousand flowers," "How great the wisdom and the love," "Let Zion in her beauty rise," "Redeemer of Israel," "Oh, ye mountains high" (which is imagery from beginning to end), "Softly beams the sacred dawning," "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," "Thou dost not weep," "Though deep'ning trials," "Our mountain home so dear." Beautiful non- "Mormon" hymns: "God moves in a mysterious way," "How firm a foundation, "Captain of Israel's hosts," "Come let us anew," "Zion stands with hills surrounded," "Guide us, oh, thou great Jehovah," "Hark, listen to the trumpeters," "I know that my Redeemer lives." Psalms are songs from David, and sacred writers used to put them into pointed tunes, Others are: "Nearer, my God, to thee," "On the mountain tops appearing," "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire." Then we have "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." If Brother Fowler never did anything in his life but write, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet," he would be well repaid to know of the inspirational and devotional feelings which have been aroused in the breasts of the Latter-day Saints with accompanying loyalty to the Prophet Joseph Smith and his followers. Somebody said, "Let me write the songs of the people, and any one who may can write the rest of their history." Other inspirational hymns are (but which do not contain good poetry): "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning," "The glorious day has rolled on," "The Seer," (Brother Taylor's wonderful hymn) "The time is far spent," "Uphold the right," "When first the glorious light of truth," and "Joseph Smith's first prayer." Some non-"Mormon" hymns which are not very poetic are: "A poor, wayfaring man of grief,' "Onward Christian soldiers," and "Should you feel inclined to Censure." There are hymns of exhortation, doctrine, etc. You cannot read any of these hymns without learning that the art that goes GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 335 right into eternity with us is music and poetry. Read from John the Revelator, and see how he describes the hundred and forty-four thousand who are going to have harps, and the twenty-four thousand lutes. If we are going to be ready to take part with the hundred and forty-four thousand we have to have more poetry and music. You should become familiar with the hymns; memorize them so that they become part of your life. When the angels announced the birth of the Savior, they did it with singing; we shall certainly have our choirs Over There. I have always been so happy we have choirs associated with our Relief Society, and you should have choirs in all your ward organizations, it seems to me. Did you ever hear of a Relief Society, in a ward where there was a thoroughly good choir, which was not well attended? Music is its own best reward. If you have a love of music in your soul, you will want to take part (sometimes much to the disgust of the choir leader). There is a woman in the temple who sings bass, but I say, God bless her, bless this note of soul harmony that rises out of this poor heart who had no opportunity to cultivate her gift. Here is a great organization, and you may learn to sing the songs of Zion in harmony with the instruments which are used, but if you cannot bring your spirit in harmony with those associated with you, and into harmony with the policies outlined by the leaders of this Church, then all the song singing and all the music will fall on dull ears and will be productive of nothing in the end. And so I say to you, learn to sing, learn to be in harmony, learn to say to yourself, I will bring myself in harmony with the principles of truth, and with those who exemplify the truths in this Relief Society in the wards and stakes and in the homes. If you cannot keep step to the music made by your own husbands in your homes, you can not expect your children ever to learn to be in harmony with their associates. If you can keep in harmony with your husband and children, with the bishop, and the president of the Relief Society, you will never enjoy the great undertones of harmony which are like the swelling organ tones-—the foundation upon which all the rest of the music is built. If we cannot do this, sisters, then we have failed, and we must learn to sing our songs of praise to God and those who are over us in another sphere. Remember that the song of the righteous is a prayer unto God, and will be answered with a blessing on our heads. Sing, therefore, whenever you can, wherever you are, when the praises of God are voiced and sing in harmony. Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth, said: Punctuality, concentration, and system are the three essentials to be considered in the economy of time. 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Punctuality is the doing of the right thing at the right time. Concentration is the throwing of our whole might and power into the performance of our tasks. System is the perfect organization of labor. To me, time is the essence of life. Benjamin Franklin said, "Dost thou love life—then do not squander time——for time is the stuff life is made of." In the present age, I think we realize this truth more than ever before; even taking into consideration the great, the wonderful and many marvelous inventions to aid us in our duties, private and public, with the machinery and all the help we get, yet we Relief Society women haven't near the time we would like for doing important things. Nothing is more necessary to the growth and advancement of nation, state, community and home than the economy of time and its proper application. If in our homes, this is understood and rigidly lived up to, there will be fewer delinquents in schools, church and office. If each member of the family has his or her own duties and those obligations are all performed in their order, citizens, helpful and useful, will come into society from those - homes. Haphazard living brings disaster and sorrow. Irregularity in eating, sleeping, etc., breaks nature's laws and often brings illness to the persons who do this. I once heard a wealthy, prosperous business man say, "I owe all my success in life to the wonderful capability and management of my wife and children. I have never gone home, night or day, that my wife failed to be ready to give my guests, if I took any home with me, a good meal, a kind welcome in an orderly and well-kept house." System and regularity are two absolute necessities to good housekeeping and home-making: we must not forget to consider the elements of punctuality and the saving of every moment of time as close followers of the above. 'Our Relief Presidency, Sister Wells, Sister Williams, Sister Smith and our efficient General Secretary are always on time; in the twenty-four years that I have been on the General Board, unless for a very important engagement or illness, Sister Emmeline B. Wells has always been at her post on time. In our Church, there is a time and an order for. Doing everything. Our great leader, Brigham Young, always set our people a good example and wherever he traveled he took the economy of time and regularity in procedure into consideration. When I was a little girl, the President and his company were traveling from Salt Lake City to St. George in southern Utah; they stayed at my father's home at Beaver. Breakfast was announced, ready at the appointed time, President Young said to the people assembled in the dining room, after prayers: "Be seated at the table; Sister Murdock, serve breakfast, please." Then, if any of the GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 337 apostles or his own sons were absent, no places were reserved for them. If they entered the room, he told them that they should be on time or they must wait until the next table, In 1846, when our United States government called for five hundred volunteers to join the army, then en route to Mexico, Brigham Young did not hesitate nor ask for time, when the recruiting officer, Captain Allen came to Mount Pisgah, he answered, at once, "Yes, we will send our young men; if there are any lacking then, we will make up the full quota by sending some of our women!" Is it any wonder then, that our "Mormon" people have made a splendid state like Utah with such a pioneer leader, organizer, colonizer, Statesman-president as Brigham Young? They tell us, order is Heaven's first law, therefore, we may be sure that they have well regulated clocks and a fine system of giving out their plans, for, everything comes to us with regularity and at the proper time. Nature's seasons, her days and nights; her flowers, fruits, grains, trees and grass; the sun, moon and stars are all in their proper order. The oceans, rivers, lakes, mountains and valleys are all arranged for our benefit. There is a time set in our Church organizations to receive monthly and yearly dues—to pay our tithing, and to give contributions to the poor; meet the ward expenses, our home bills, and many others, too numerous to mention, that if not paid at the proper time, bring embarrassment and, in some instances, failure to those most interested. In our relief societies everywhere, we are improving very materially in our methods of doing all our duties; we are sharing responsibilities. There is a splendid plan of work and study in our Magazine lessons. There are no women in this world more capable than our Relief Society sisters; they are wonderful in their accomplishments; yet, some of us are not quite on time always. Not long ago, I heard one of the brethren, at a convention, say that some of our sisters, who had been on a trip with him, had not been on time for meals, meetings, or autos, and, on one occasion, he had to leave them at the hotel because they were not up to go with him at the appointed time. Promptness in opening and closing our meetings should always be carried out, and Relief Society women everywhere should be models in punctuality and system. I think it is almost inexcusable to be even late at a dinner party; I should feel almost like not again inviting a lady to my home who had kept my guests waiting until dinner was spoiled. Drifting never takes us to any port, and, sometimes, noble 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE characters are lost forever through failing to improve their time and opportunity. I believe the men and women of destiny, eminent in accomplishing the greatest good in this world, have counted on time as one of their surest assets, and punctuality and concentration have aided them greatly in execution. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT Certainly you have a very wonderful gathering of the sisters here today. It shows the interest that you take in the great Relief Society work. There is, in my heart, a very warm place for the good sisters who are working in our Relief Societies throughout the Church. As many of you know, my mother was for thirty-odd years the president of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society. She was personally acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo, and her early associates, when she was a young woman, were Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Aunt Emmeline B. Wells, Aunt Emily Partridge, and many others of the early pioneers in the Church of Christ. My earliest recollection is associated as a child with attending Relief Society meetings. I have even jocularly remarked that I felt I was entitled to be counted as a charter member of the Relief Society, because I had grown up in it. I was an errand boy to distribute the charities of the Society in the Thirteenth ward. I believe the pleasure I experienced in doing this has had a very great effect upon my life and has impressed me with the force of the saying that, "It is more blessed to give than to receive." I am convinced of that in my own feelings. The work you are doing is a very wonderful and noble work, and I know of no class of people in all the Church who have been more devoted to the work of God and have labored more diligently to fulfil the obligations and duties devolving on them than our good sisters of our Relief Societies, from Canada on the north, to Mexico on the south, The Presidency of the Church and the Council of the Twelve have had under consideration during the past week the condition of the General Board of the Relief Society, and on account of the advanced age and the feeble condition of health of their beloved president, Emmeline B. Wells, we have arrived at the decision that it would be wisdom for her to be relieved as the President of this association, with our perfect confidence, with our perfect love, and with gratitude in our hearts for her faithful labors from the day that she commenced working in the Relief Society (and she was a worker in my childhood days in the Thirteenth ward, as the secretary under my mother) from her early womanhood until the GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 339 present time, when she is past ninety-three years of age. She has been ever faithful, ever true. There is not a single word of condemnation or criticism from any of the authorities on the labors that "Aunt Em" has performed as the President of this Society, but we feel in our hearts, after prayerful consideration, that it is only fair to this great organization of nearly fifty thousand members, that a person of greater strength of body, than our dear "Aunt Em" can possibly have at her advanced age, should be placed at the head of this organization. Of course, we regret, in one sense, making any change. With our unbounded love and confidence and praying. The best blessings of the Lord to be and abide with her during the remainder of her life, we propose that Sister Emmeline B. Wells be honorably released, with her counselors, Sisters Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L. Smith, as the Presidency of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. All in favor of sustaining this proposition will manifest it by the raising of the right. Contrary if there be any. (The vote was unanimous in the affirmative.) The Presidency sent for Sister Williams yesterday afternoon and announced to her our decision in this regard, and told her we had selected her to be the President of the Relief Society of the Church. All in favor of sustaining Sister Clarissa S. Williams as President of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will show it by raising the right hand. Contrary, if there be any. We asked her to choose her own counselors, and she has chosen as her first counselor, Sister Jennie Brimhall Knight, of Provo. All in favor of sustaining Sister Knight will manifest it. Contrary, if there be any. Sister Louise Y. Robison, of the Granite stake of Zion, has been chosen by Sister Williams as her second counselor. All in favor of sustaining Sister Robison will manifest it. Contrary, if there be any. (The votes were unanimous in the affirmative.) Permit me to say that the labors of Sister Williams and Sister Julina Smith and others, associated with Sister Wells in the Society, have our approval and these sisters have our love and blessing. We would like Sister Williams and her counselors to meet with the Presidency immediately following this meeting to consider the question of persons to be members of the General Board of Relief Society. Praying the Lord to bless all those connected with the Relief Society and particularly to bless those chosen to stand at the head of it. I will close my remarks, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GENERAL SESSION—SATURDAY AFTERNOON Mrs. Emma Romney, said: As you have heard, my subject is Relief Society Dues. You all know that we cannot run any organization without money and for this purpose we pay our annual dues—our annual membership dues, to defray the expenses, or help to do so, of the General Board. We all know that it takes a great deal of money to run offices like our General offices, and I, for one, am very proud to see that we have such beautiful quarters, where we transact our business. 1 feel that we have nothing more than we should have in the way of office equipment and furnishing. Then there are the traveling expenses of our General Board. Some of the stakes are far away and it takes considerable means to travel to them. How pleased we are to see the members of the Board and to have them with us at our stake conferences. In April, 1913, at a general officers' meeting in Salt Lake City, a special order of business was a consideration of the annual dues. At that time we were paying 10c, and it was not sufficient to carry on the work. It was decided at this meeting to change the dues from 10c to 25c for each enrolled member of the Relief Society, to be paid in January of each year in advance, and forwarded to the General Board before the last of February. Then, there are the stake board dues. A year ago this April conference, it was decided at the general officers' meeting that there should be uniform dues for the stake boards. The stake officers, as well as the General Board, need funds to carry on the local work, and so it was decided that a stake due of 25c be established. The stake dues are to be used for defraying the business of the stake and to assist in paying the traveling expenses of the stake officers to general conference and to wards. In the past these officers have had to get up entertainments for this purpose or pay the expenses themselves. I think it is 25, 50, even 75 miles in some instances from a stake center to a ward, and as I said before, traveling takes money. As a member of the General Board of the Primary, I visited nearly all the stakes, so that I had an opportunity to know just how hard it was for some of the stake workers to make visits to the different wards. I believe if we all pay our 25c dues for the stake board the stake officers will have it a little easier. Now, sisters, I do hope that we all see this in the right way— take it in the right spirit. Nothing can be done successfully without some means and I am sure it does not hurt any of us to pay 50c a year for the up-keep of our great Relief Society. Before taking my seat I wish to bear my testimony to the truthfulness of this great Relief Society work, and I know that GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 341 the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired to organize this glorious work in which we are engaged, and when we think of the few in number at the first organization and then think how it is growing and increasing, we all want to do our part, so that it will grow and increase until every sister, every virtuous sister, as it was told us by the Prophet Joseph, becomes a member. At the conclusion of Mrs. Romney's remarks, Counselor Williams added the following: The General Board say I am a hobbyist on the annual membership dues. I would like to make a point of what it means to be a member of the Relief Society. It is the greatest privilege that the women of the Church have, to be counted and enrolled as members of the Relief Society. I believe that you are all converted to the thought of annual dues. It is such a little thing we ask, it seems almost ridiculous to think of it. It only amounts to four cents a month—one cent a week. Occasionally we hear that the sisters cannot afford to pay a cent a week (they do not put it that way, that is my way) to be enrolled sisters in the Relief Society. Don't say that to me—it makes me blush. All we need is to be converted. To me the thought that I am a paid-up member in an organization such as the Relief Society is worth more than many, many times the amount mentioned. I have talked with many people who say, "Why don't you make it $1 or $2? No, that is not the purpose at present, unless our organization should get so large, our stakes and wards extend so far, that we found it would be necessary to do that. By enrolling your name and paying an annual amount of 25c for the general organization and 25c for the stake, you are a paid-up member in the Relief Society, and the value of being a member in the organization and of paying something to assist in the carrying on of that work seems to us to be a very great privilege. Now, we want the stake officers to take up a missionary work and if there is a prejudice among your bishops, among the members of your ward, among any one with whom you labor, against annual dues, remove that prejudice and put it to them in the light that it is a privilege to belong to such an organization.: Mrs. Julina L. Smith, said: I was married when I was 17 years of age, to Joseph F. Smith. He was not then an apostle; he was just the son of the martyred Hyrum Smith and the nephew of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He was sent off on a mission at the age of 15. He was an orphan boy at that time; he had no father and his mother died when he was about 14. He was sent away off to the Sandwich Islands, which was at that time a very desolate country. Later, 342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he was chosen as an apostle and he was called the fighting apostle. Why was he called a fighting apostle? Because he stood for the truth, he stood for the principles of the gospel and for the teachings of our heavenly Father, and the Prophet Joseph Smith. He had many experiences. After the death of President Young he was chosen as a counselor to John Taylor. After that he was the counselor to Wilford Woodruff and then to Lorenzo Snow. At the time of Lorenzo Snow's death, he was made president of this Church, and you all know what kind of president he was, I am telling you of this so you can see and know the teaching that I have had. My uncle, George A., taught me what he could, and my husband stood where he had, and I knew that I was getting the best that the Lord had to give. I have tried to live my religion and do the best I could. I have been a member of the Relief Society since I was eighteen. 1 worked in the Endowment House with Eliza R. Snow, Zina Young, Wilford Woodruff, and was well acquainted with all of them. Then I worked in the Salt Lake temple. My sister Edna and myself were chosen, at the dedication, for workers in the temple and we worked together until the time came that my duties confined me to my home. I have tried always to do my duty as a board member. I have attended my meetings as well as I could, but I want to say that I could not travel and visit with you people as most of the members did because of my home duties. My heart is with you; it is with every Latter-day Saint. I want to continue on, although the time has come now that it is necessary to have younger women to do the work of the Relief Society. We are getting numerous and we need younger people. President Smith used to say to us that the time would come when the Relief Society would be run by younger women—Latter-day Saints who have the gospel in their hearts and can also appeal to the young. Some people think that nobody but old ladies should belong to the Relief Society, but that is not right. The old ladies have done their work and should continue on doing all they can, but the time will come when the young ladies will be chosen to do the detail work. I want to say that J am as happy as I can be to know that I have been faithful up to this time when it is necessary to choose younger women for this work; still we older ones can be Latter-day Saints, can visit the poor, the sick, and the needy, and we can sustain the younger ones and do all that is in our power. We are yet Latter-day Saints and we have the right to bear our testimony to the work of the prophets of the Lord. I have not anything much to speak of, but I thought I would like to say a little something of my own life. I have reared ten GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 343 children of my own, and two, adopted. I have ten children who are living lives of Latter-day Saints and have been married in the temple. I have fifty-one grandchildren. President Smith has one hundred, and fifty-one of them belong to me. I think it is a pretty good record if we can rear all our children and grand-_ children to be Latter-day Saints. Then our mission is well filled. I wanted to say this to you and let you know a little of my life and how it has been spent, and I feel now like a bird that has been let out of a cage. With all my duties I have not had much time to spend with my family, and I want you all to know that I have the best of feeling toward our Board—those who have been let out of a cage. With all my duties I have not had much but prayers and good feelings for all those who will take our places, and I pray the Lord will bless them all and fill them with his Spirit and that the work may go on even better than before. We have done the best we could. I am sorry Aunt Em could not be with us, but she is very feeble, but the Lord is at the helm. His work will go on, and I pray that the Lord will help us all and bless us to do his will the best we can. Remarks of Mrs. Leonora T. Harrington: One of the great problems, I feel, and one that has been talked about more than any other. Is the membership—how to secure and hold our membership. I remember a few years ago of hearing President Smith say that we must get young women into the Relief Society, and I bear my testimony to you, my sisters, where this has been done in cases where presidents have died and others have resigned because they felt they were not able to carry on the work; success has followed. I have urged such procedure in my stake. We are benefitted by using our young educated women and they are able to draw in the young mothers whom the older people do not always know. They also make splendid class leaders. I would like to suggest that we all make an effort to develop our women who are too timid to arise to their feet and speak, by writing out questions for them to commit to memory with the answers. Standing before the public gives them confidence in themselves. Another splendid thing: is to have music in our Relief Society. I feel that every ward should have a good chorister—one that understands music and she will draw to our associations women who are singers. Ours was one of the first stakes to have a stake Relief Society choir and it has been a great blessing to us. One of the most vital things is that the officers should get acquainted with the members. We officers should be early enough at our meetings to clasp the hands of all those who are attending. 344 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE  I think there is nothing in the world which engenders greater confidence than a good warm handshake which is really a communication from spirit to spirit. I feel that one of the things which endeared the late Cardinal Gibbons to the Catholic people was the personal interest that he took in their welfare. He not only was a great student, but he was a brother and friend and he knew his congregation. In one of the states where he used to preside as a bishop when he was a young man, he knew every adult member who belonged to his church; he took a personal interest in them, and it is no wonder that he attained the great heights that he did. I would like to say a word about ward entertainments. I feel that our local presidents are worked too hard, with their regular work, and should not be expected to do all the work at ward reunions and other ward affairs. I feel that the Mutual, the Primary, the Boy Scouts, as well as the Relief Society, should assist with these large ward entertainments. In our stake we have a large increased membership. Some of the wards even report that they have not room, that they will have to move out of the Relief Society quarters in order to accommodate those in attendance. I would like to say a word about my counselor, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, who was appointed a counselor today to Mrs. Williams. You could have searched the Church throughout, and you would never have found any one more thorough and capable and a better Latter-day Saint than she is. I have worked with her for many years. She is one of the most devoted of mothers and wives, one of the most thorough Latter-day Saints which it has been my privilege to meet. She is well educated along all the lines of Relief Society work and is capable to carry on that work. Mrs. Agnes H. Stevens, said: I feel very grateful today that I belong to a society with such a motto as we have, "Charity Never Faileth." I feel grateful that we have as key words, love 'and service. I feel it a most wonderful privilege to be here today to partake of this sweet, lovely spirit.; In reporting the Weber stake, I feel that I can speak in a very encouraging way. It is one of the oldest Relief Societies in the Church. One of the first, if not the first Relief Society conferences ever held was held in the Weber stake, and I have been thinking of the wonderful occasion when President Brigham Young came there with the sisters and other members of the Church authorities, and how lovingly and sweetly he spoke to the women there, how he urged them to become better wives and more devoted mothers, and the simple, kindly way in which he GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 345 instructed the mothers to take care of their children, how to teach them and discipline them that they might grow up to be a glory to the mothers and fathers and to the Church. I realize that age alone does not bring respect. I know that while we have an old organization, in order to keep it up it takes faith and work and prayer, and I do feel and know that while I have not been connected with the Relief Society very many years, I have seen a wonderful growth in our activities. There has been a steady growth in the attendance, in the activity, and in the manifestation of faith and works in Weber stake. I will give an illustration of the second ward of which I am a member. A few years ago, if we had only six or seven women at our ward meeting with opening exercises and testimony, we felt satisfied, or if we had ten we thought we had a splendid attendance. Two weeks ago in the second ward we had over 72 women and 8 children, and there are now two or three wards in Weber stake that are outgrowing the rooms that have been provided for the Relief Society. We feel that one thing that has increased the attendance in our Relief Society is the splendid lessons that we have been able to present. In the wards where there are the most poor, where there is -the most welfare work to do, we have the best organizations. This shows that doing for and helping others develops the workers. A thing which has improved our organization is the holding of prayer meetings before our regular meetings and before our union meetings. We hold board meeting every week and union meeting once a month. A year ago we had some little pledge cards printed on which we had this motto: "We stand for the spiritual uplift of the home." We gave out these cards asking the members of the Relief Society to sign them and to pledge themselves to attend the Relief Society regularly for a year and to exert influence to get new members to join, and since that we have noticed a steady increase in the attendance at our meetings. We have held ward conferences this year and they have been the most beautiful meetings we have ever held. We have wondered many times why we did not get more of our teachers out at our union meetings. I was reminded of the occasion when our beloved Master spoke to Peter and asked him if he loved him, and Peter answered three times, "Thou knowest, I love thee." The Savior said to Peter three times, "Feed my sheep,' and so we felt that if we had something special for our visiting teachers we would get them there, and so for four months we have had a special lesson outline and a printed outline prepared for the teachers in Weber stake, and we have had a splendid speaker at Union meeting who has spoken on the subject while the teacher had the outline to follow. We have treated the sacrament, 346 'RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the word of wisdom, influences affecting the modern home, and reverence. We had one testimony meeting where our teachers got up and told of the wonderful good these lessons were doing. We used to have an attendance of 60 to 70 teachers 'in our union meeting. At our last union meeting we had over 200. In conclusion I will read a little prayer by Edgar Guest, which appeals to me: "God grant me this: the strength to do some needed service here; The wisdom to be brave and true, the gift of vision clear; That in each task that comes to me, some purpose I may plainly see; God teach me to believe that I am stationed at the post Of all the homeless, sick and needy, where I am needed most, And that at last, if I do well, my humble services will tell. God grant rie faith to stand uncared, uncheered, unspoke, alone, And see beyond each duty here my service to the throne. Whate'er the task, be this my creed, I am on earth to fill a need." Mrs. Josephine C. Kimball, said: I come to you this afternoon from the sunny south and bring you greetings from the southern societies. St. Joseph stake is the farthest south of any in the United States. Our stake extends from El Paso on the southwest up to the mining camps of Globe and Miami, so you see we have a very large area to travel Over in visiting our twenty wards, We can reach eight of our wards by rail, but the other twelve we have to visit by automobile or any way we can get to go. C As to the problems of the Relief Society work, I can only speak of them as I have found them in the stake during my short time there of two and half or three years, We have some of the very best workers in the world, and they seem so united, so willing and anxious to do the right thing. Up here, you are blessed with so many of the General Board members, who can visit you often and to whom you can go for advice and for counsel, and you are blessed with their attendance at your socials and at your conferences. A remark was made at our conference six months ago that stake presidents will be able to solve all the problems of Relief Society work if they will be humble and prayerful and by constant study make themselves efficient. This efficiency will come to us if we apply ourselves, because the Lord is on our side and will help us with all our difficulties. Success or failure depends in a great degree upon the presidents, because they are the ones who supervise, guide and direct, and the best presidents are those who not only study and pray, but those who can get the most work out of their fellow workers. A president should be a good manager. Now, with regard to our teachers' work, we have adopted the system of the cards, which are printed and distributed at union GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 347 meetings. There the teachers have a room to themselves and one of the bord members who has prepared herself, discusses the subject. The teachers' work is growing in interest and intensity In some instances we have had charity and social service tendered, but we do not need a great deal down there where we wards not long ago where our Relief Society represented the hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints," and it was wonderfully portrayed. In other wards, we are having tableaus. Our union meetings are well attended. Where we used to have thirty and forty in attendance, we have had this year an We feel to mourn a little over the release of some of our older sisters from the General Board. They have been so faithful, so kind, and they have taken long journeys to visit us and 348 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE We have paid 100% annual dues. We used to have quite a lot of trouble in getting the stake dues when they were 10c, 15c. Now we never have any more trouble, since it has been decided to have a 25c due, so I think they would rather pay 25c than 10c. We have visitors from the University very often to help us out in hat making, dressmaking, remodeling old clothes, etc. The greatest problem we have is not membership, but indifference in attendance, and we are working to overcome this. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT The Presidency of the Church held a meeting with Sister Williams and her counselors during the intermission and agreed upon names to present to you here for the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church, and for officers of the same. We will sustain only twenty members of the Board instead of twentythree, as the new presidency desires some little time in which to decide upon other members of the Board. It was decided by the Presidency of the Church to release all of the officers and members of the General Board, with the love and blessings and gratitude of the Presidency and General Authorities. This action was approved last Thursday by the apostles at their regular council meeting. We feel that in reorganizing the Relief Society Board the presidency of the Board should be permitted to suggest the names of those with whom they feel they can accomplish the most good in their work. We agree perfectly with the good sisters who have spoken here today, and it fills our hearts with sadness, of course, to part with dear Aunt Em Wells' services. I cannot remember when I did not know her and love her. I cannot remember when I did not call her Aunt Em, and realize that there are none of those connected with any of our associations who have been faithful and diligent but what it is always a sorrow to part with them. At the same time it is only fair for you people to know that there are quite a number of the members of the General Board of the Relief Society who have, upon more than one occasion, appealed to the members of the Presidency that they be released from their po- ' sitions as members of this Board, as they felt that there were others who could give more time and attention to the work involved than they could. All those who feel to give an honorable release to the officers and General Board members of the Relief Society as it now exists, will manifest it with a show of the right hand. Contrary, if there are any, by the same sign. The vote is unanimous. It is proposed that we sustain as the officers and members of the General Board of the Relief Society: Sister Clarissa Smith GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 349 Williams as president, Lucy J. Brimhall Knight as first counselor, Louisa Yates Robison as second counselor, Amy Brown Lyman, secretary and treasurer. Members of the Board: Emma A. Empey, Susa Young Gates, Jeanette A. Hyde, Sarah M. McLelland, Lillian Cameron, Annie Wells Cannon, Lalene Hart, Lottie Paul Baxter, Angie Holbrook Taylor, Julia Childs, Cora Bennion, Julia A. F. Lund, Amy Whipple Evans, Ethel Reynolds Smith, Barbara Howell Richards and Rosanna C. Irvine. All in favor of sustaining these sisters as officers and members of the Board will manifest it by raising the right hand. Contrary. Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward as chorister and Edna Coray as organist. All in favor manifest it by raising the right hand. Contrary. (All votes were unanimous in the affirmative.) Permit me to say to the dear sisters here assembled that I know that all of the General Authorities of the Church extend their love and blessings to all those who are retiring as members of the Board. I know of no complaints that are being made against any of these members. I wish to say that I feel as an individual that all I may have accomplished in the battle of life I owe to my mother. I feel that this body of women here assembled are capable of and have been capable of and are today shaping the lives of those who will have in their hands the destiny of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I feel that it is because of the integrity, devotion and faithfulness and teachings of my mother and of her sister, Anna L. Ivins, that Anthony W. Ivins and myself are standing here today as representatives of the Church of Christ. May God bless each and every one of you and aid you to so live the gospel that your influence with your sons and daughters may be equally instrumental in shaping their lives as the influ: ence of our mothers have been in shaping our lives, is my prayer, and I ask it with the blessings of God upon those who retire and those who take office, in the names of Jesus Christ. Amen. ANTHONY W. IVINS The President desires that I say a few words to you, my sisters, this afternoon. Like him, I have been acquainted with and associated with the Relief Society work all of my life. My mother, like his, was a local president and after that a stake president in the day when we had no automobiles, and I was the teamster who drove the presidency from one place to another. I love this work because it is the Lord's work; I love it because of all other things it comes nearest, perhaps, to the hearts of people who are in trouble, who need relief. The sick, the poor, the halt, the blind, those who need the administration of helping hands and 350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE loving hearts get it from the Relief Society of the Church. We hope that that spirit will always be kept in it—the spirit of service, the spirit of help. We have a great movement that we call the Boy Scout Movement now. One of the pledges that every boy takes who becomes a member of that association is that he will help other people at all times, which we should all do, regardless of special calling. To care for the sick, administer to them and see that no one suffers for food or for clothing, to attend to those who may die, and to comfort the hearts of the living is the special calling of these sisters who are associated with Relief Society work. The Lord bless you in it, my sisters! You have the sympathy of the Presidency, you have the sympathy of the Council of the Twelve, you have the sympathy of every man and woman in the Church, I am sure, wherever you labor, and so I only desire to ask that the blessings of our Father may continue with you in this work of mercy, and I ask it through Jesus Christ. Amen. CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS It has been suggested that some token of love and appreciation be sent to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, our beloved president. It has been in my mind, but it has hardly taken concrete form. It occurs to me now that if we would stand for a moment and have in our hearts a prayer of love and sympathy and help for our beloved leader, and for the members of the General Board who have worked so long and so faithfully, that perhaps that would be the greatest tribute we can pay. Will the brethren and sisters stand and express in their hearts the love and appreciation which they have for President Emmeline B. Wells, for our beloved Counselor Julina L. Smith, and for the other members of the Board. This will be conveyed by message to Sister Wells. My heart is so full, my brethren and sisters, that it is impossible for me to express myself. There are many reasons why it is very difficult, but I ask with all humility for an interest in your faith and prayers, for your support and for your blessings, that I may be able to do the things which are expected of me, and I feel in my heart that with the love and support of the brethren, the authorities of the Church, and with the women of the Church, and the blessings of my heavenly Father, that I will do the very best that I can; but I must have your assistance. I should like very much to have the new board meet with the sisters. For this purpose a meeting will be held on Monday morning at 10 o'clock at the Relief Society headquarters, where one stake representative from each stake can be accommodated in the board rooms. We may then be able to introduce to you the new members of the Board. GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 351 Monday Morning, April 4, a special officers' meeting was held in the General Board Rooms, with President Clarissa S. Williams presiding. Those in attendance were the members of the General Board and one stake representative from each of the stakes represented at the General Relief Society conference. Preceding the meeting an informal reception was held, everybody having the opportunity to shake hands with everybody else. The meeting was opened with singing, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." Prayer, Mrs. Amanda Bagley. Roll call showed a good representation of General Board members, and stake representatives. President Williams explained that the meeting had been called to give the members of the new board and the stake representatives the opportunity to meet one another. Continuing, Mrs. Williams said: This is a most trying position for me, but no matter how hard things are, it is our duty to do as we are directed. We trust that the women who stand at the head of this great organization in the stakes will be as loyal to us who are now' called to preside as they have been to President Wells and her life and work, and it is a monument worthy of any woman or any man, for that matter, the work which she has accomplished. I must give credit for whatever knowledge I have of Relief Society work to the dear sisters under whom I have been trained. Aunt Bathsheba was my first superior, although I was interested and worked in ward work before her time; but I labored under her presidency and under the presidency of Aunt Em and whateyer there is in me that has been commendable has been through the blessings of the Lord and their loyal help and assistance, as well as through my own efforts. I feel I-would not be true to myself if I did not say to you that I have always been loyal to them. No human being can say with truth that I have ever been disloyal to those who have been placed over me. I have been trying for three weeks to get myself perfectly under control, but find it difficult, but I do humbly beseech the blessings of my heavenly Father, that he will make me humble, that I may be filled with humility, that I may have wisdom, and that I may have the love and confidence and support of my officers and board and of you, dear sisters. If I do not, my work, and that of those associated with me, will not amount to very much. We come and go in this life; we are placed here by our heavenly Father to perform a mission and it is our responsibility as to whether we fill that mission honorably or dishonorably. If we can have faith and humility and wisdom and the love and guidance of our heavenly Father, and the love of those about us, we will be able to do some of the things which will be expected of us in carrying on this great work. 352 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The work of the women in the Church is unprecedented. There are great organizations of women out of the Church, women who have accomplished great things and they have more material often to work with than we have. But we have carved a record of noble deeds from the material which has been around us. We have pioneered, we have built homes in the wilderness, we have done all that pioneer women could possibly do, and while now the way is more easy for some of us, still we are pioneers, we have done all that pioneer women could possibly do, and while as I say, if we are humble, if we have faith and are prayeriul and desire the Spirit of our heavenly Father to be with us, he will surely help and bless us. I think there is very little instruction we desire to give you this morning. We want you to go on with the work as you are doing it to the best of your ability, and if in the future you are instructed to give up some of the activities in which you have been engaged or to take on new ones, as you have often been, be sure that it is from the authorities of the Church that the suggestions are made. ' We must work harmoniously with those about us, with the other organizations, and with our Priesthood. We are auxiliary to the Priesthood. We may have our ideas, and I think no bishop or no stake president nor even the President of the Church would object to our stating what our ideas are in regard to matters, but there we rest. The action depends on how the Priesthood view that which we wish to have done. I am sure that you all understand that we, as an organization, would not be in existence if it were not that the Priesthood had placed us here as an auxiliary. I believe that the time now has come that when changes are thought to be necessary in organizations they will be easier made than they have been in the past. We have been imbued with the thought that if we were appointed to a position we were to fill it until the Lord released us by death, but I have an idea that now it will be honorable to ask to be relieved of duties that it is not possible for us to fill. I want you to teach in your organizations, both stakes and wards, that this organization is greater than any individual, and that while we love and honor and respect individuals with all our hearts, when, in the opinion of the Priesthood, it is wise to make changes, so doing will be best. I believe, sisters, that you know my heart, that I love the Relief Society work. I have in a measure dedicated my life to the service of this organization, and while I have had a big family and still have, I do not feel that I have ever neglected my family, but that the Lord has helped me. One dear sister here this morning, who is the president of a scattered stake, told me she was the GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 353 mother of twelve children, and I told her that is why she looks so young, but having a family does not keep us from doing good and helping others. Sister M. Isabella Horne used to say that it is the woman with the big family who can do the most, for she has her work organized and systematized, and she can do things which she could never ask others to do. I want to say further that it is with regret that members of the General Board have been released, but in talking the matter over with the First Presidency, it was decided that the step taken was the proper step to take, and we ask your support and your faith and prayers and your belief that the step that is taken is of the Lord, and we know that you will feel with us, and that the members of the present board will feel with us, and also the members of the old board, that it is the best. Nearly all of the members of the old board have worked for at least twenty-five years in this work, and it will be hard for them, of course, and yet they know that it takes younger and more active women to do the strenuous executive work which is required now in organizations. Three weeks' ago today President Grant advised me what the General Authorities expected to do in the way of reorganizing the General Board of Relief Society. I had hardly recovered from the surprise when Mrs. Knight and Mrs. Robison came into my mind as counselors. This, I feel, was inspiration from the Lord as much as inspiration can be. There was provision for three counselors in the articles of incorporation, but that has never been carried out since the first few years, but I want to say that Sister Lyman, the secretary, is a third counselor. She is the servant of the presidency and the board, because she carries out what they wish carried out, but she is also a counselor and we regard her as such. Sister Lyman was sustained as secretary-treasurer. For sometime we have had under consideration the combining of the officers of secretary and treasurer. President Clawson, who is our auditor, recommended that we make this change, and President Grant thought, if we desired to do this, now would be the proper time. Mrs. Empey, as you know, has been the treasurer of the organization since the beginning of Mrs. Wells' presidency, and during all this time her work has been efficient and thoroughly satisfactory. The change is made simply to expedite the work of the organization, and Mrs. Empey is an example of one standing aside for what is considered to be the onward movement of the organization, and we commend Sister Empey. Another position is that of corresponding secretary. Sister Gates, in addition to her duties as editor of the Magazine, has occupied this position of corresponding secretary; but in talking
354 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
matters over with the brethren, it was decided that an assistant secretary, one who would do more of the clerical work of the organization, and possibly one who is not a member of the Board, could give more service, and so Mrs. Gates has been honorably released from her position as corresponding secretary. Following Mrs. Williams' address, remarks were made by Counselors Jennie Brimhall Knight and Louisa Y. Robison and by the board members as follows: Amy Brown Lyman, Emma A. Empey, Susa Young Gates, Sarah M. McLelland, Lillian Cameron, Annie Wells Cannon, Lalene Hart, Lottie Paul Baxter, Julia Child, Cora Bennion, Julia A. F. Lund, Amy Whipple Evans, Ethel Reynolds Smith, Barbara Howell Richards, Rosanna C. Irvine. The speakers all expressed their desire to be united and to work earnestly and devotedly for the progress of the great organization, in which they have been called to serve. Miss Sarah Eddington, a retiring member of the Board was the last speaker. She said: Sister Williams has always been gracious and lovely to me, and my whole soul has gone out in loyalty this morning to the members of this Board, and I love them, every one, though I came on the Board seven years ago trembling and fearing, yet I go off now with 100% more loyalty in my soul to the members of the new board than I had in the beginning for the old one, because I did not know then what I had been called to. I want to say that my association with the members of our Board has brought into my life the full realization of one of the most beautiful words in the English language—it has been spelled by the love of our Savior and the Prophet Joseph Smith, and I now realize how beautiful it has been exemplified by the members of our Board— that beautiful word service. How far reaching it is we cannot estimate. When the members of the new board go out into the stakes, they will receive that wonderful love that has always come to me. How much I have learned to love the stake officers I can only estimate by the great love they have shown me and the great appreciation I have for their hospitality. Before leaving, I want to say that while I will not be on the firing line any longer, I will stand just as close as I can to this Board, so that in case the Board needs me, my powder will be dry, and I myself will be prepared to go, no matter where I am called, for I do know that this is the gospel of Christ, and that none of us can afford to stand in the way. When I knew that I was in a position where I could not come to the Board meeting, I asked to be released, and I say that when stake and ward officers find that they cannot measure up, they should seek for a release. They can be honorably released and still find plenty of opportunity for service, and I pray that this spirit will permeate the whole Relief Society organization, and I ask it in the name of Jesus, Amen.
Funeral Services of President Emmeline B. Wells
Fifth President of the Relief Societies of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, Friday, April 29, 1921.
(The arrangements for the funeral services were under the direction of Elders Rulon S. Wells and John Q. Cannon, assisted by the Executive Officers of the General Board of Relief Society.).
By Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman
The funeral of President Emmeline B. Wells, who died on Sunday, April 25, 1921, at the home of her daughter, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, was held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle on Friday, April 29, with President Heber J. Grant presiding. The body of Mrs. Wells was removed from the home of Mr. John Q. Cannon to the Tabernacle at 11 o'clock where it lay in state until 2 p. M. When the services began. Mrs. Wells' officers, consisting of her counselors, Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams and Mrs. Julina L. Smith, General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman, Corresponding Secretary Susa Young Gates, Treasurer Emma A. Empey, joined the family at the residence and with them accompanied the remains to the tabernacle. While the body was being viewed at the tabernacle by the thousands of friends and admirers, who silently passed the bier, members of the General Board, and the stake presidents of the Salt Lake county stakes, were in attendance. During this time the tabernacle organ was played by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists. The members of Mrs. Wells' board and of the reorganized board, assembled at the Relief Society headquarters and marched in a body to the tabernacle. President Wells' board preceded the pall bearers and the hearse in the funeral procession, serving as a guard of honor. The Pioneer Stake Relief Society officers, under the chairmanship of the president, Mrs. Mary A. Cutler, assisted Mr. Frank Wynne in arranging and caring for the flowers. Mrs. Margaret C. Spencer, president of the Eighteenth Ward Relief Society, where Aunt "Em" was enrolled as a ward member, was in charge of twelve Relief Society women from the Salt Lake City stakes, who acted as ushers under the supervision of Elder Benjamin Goddard.
356 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The pulpit and railings of the tabernacle were decorated in pure white which formed a charming background for the numerous exquisite floral offerings of hundreds of friends and admirers. The beautiful bluish grey casket itself was covered with a blanket formed of roses, lilies, carnations and ferns, and was banked about with masses of the same flowers. Among the floral tributes was a wreath of wheat and roses, with letters in violets, representing the Relief Society official emblem. The seating for the services was as follows: General Church Authorities in usual places, family on front seats directly in front of bier, behind them the General Board of Relief Society and other auxiliary boards of the Church, and all especially invited guests, which included the many women's organizations in which President Wells had been deeply interested. The congregation of approximately six thousand was made up principally of Relief Society women, who had turned out en masse to pay a parting tribute to their beloved leader, who, as a pioneer, a suffragist, a writer, a welfare worker, and president of the Relief Society, had won the admiration and respect of all who knew her. The program for the funeral exercises was carried out as follows:
1 Opening Hymn, "When First the Glorious Light of Truth" Relief Society Choir, Lizzie Thomas Edward, Director 2 Opening Prayer President Anthony W. Ivins 3 Violin Solo, "Traumerie" Prof. Willard Weihe 4 Remarks President Clarissa S. Williams 5 Remarks Dr. George W. Middleton 6 Remarks Dr. Seymour B: Young 7 Soprano Solo, "Oh, Dry Those Tears" Lorinda P. Brewerton 8 Remarks Bishop Charles W. Nibley 9 Remarks Elder Orson F. Whitney 10 Male Quartet, "Jesus, I My Cross Have Taken" James H. Nielson, August Glissmeyer Henry Glissmeyer, Hyrum Christensen 11 Remarks President Charles W. Penrose 12 Remarks President Heber J: Grant 13 Closing Hymn, "Oh, My Father" Raymond Williams, assisted by Tabernacle Choir 14 Benediction Bishop Thomas A, Clawson
(Music under direction of Prof. Anthony C. Lund)
A large cortege, under the supervision of Mr. B. F. Grant, followed the casket to the cemetery where, in the Daniel H. Wells'
FUNERAL SERVICES OF EMMELINE B. WELLS 357
family lot, the body was interred by the side of the husband and other members of the family. The pall bearers were the grandsons of President Wells, sons of Mrs. Isabel M. Sears, and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. The first four automobiles in the procession conveyed the members of President Wells' board, who were as follows: Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon, Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, Miss Sarah Eddington, Miss Lillian Cameron, Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler. Following the board members were the pall bearers, then the hearse, and then the family, followed by the General Authorities of the Church, the auxiliary organizations, and the public. The service at the grave consisted of a musical number by the Elite Quartet, and a dedicatory prayer by Elder Rulon S, Wells. The burial plot was completely covered with beautiful flowers, and the grave was lined with ferns upon a background of white chiffon. The speakers at the funeral services included church officials, and personal friends, all of whom were life-long associates of Mrs. Wells. In order to incorporate a resume of these addresses in this issue of the Magazine, we append here the Deseret News' account, as approved by the speakers, and prepared under the direction of the editor in chief of the Deseret News.
CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, president of the Relief Society, Mrs. Wells' successor in office, was the first speaker. She told of her long friendship with "Aunt Em" and her family; of how little children had always loved the "old, old lady;" of how Mrs. Wells had lived a score of years beyond the allotted three-score and ten; and of the long years of work in the Relief Society she had enjoyed with the departed. ' Mrs. Williams spoke of the remarkable career of verse writing of Mrs, Wells, begun at the age of four; of the young women of Utah with literary inclination, who had been encouraged by her; of her long struggle to help women to secure the franchise; of her journeys far across the water to take the message of the Relief Society to the world; of her missionary work at home; of the tributes paid by noted women of the entire world to Mrs. Wells; of her testimony of the gospel and the divine mission of
358 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Joseph Smith; of her love of that gospel; of her long years of outlook on the development of almost a century. The speaker also referred to what was. Possibly Aunt Em's one ungratified wish, that of experiencing the thrill of flying— a feat which even at her advanced years she might have undertaken had not her close advisers feared that it would be too severe a task upon her.
DR. MIDDLETON
Dr. George W. Middleton, medical adviser of "Aunt Em," in her last days, and for many years previously, paid a glowing tribute. He told of the beginning of her life in a little New England village; of her personal friendship with the poet Whittier; of her early baptism into the Church and her personal friendship with the martyred Prophet. Her contact with leaders of the Church at Nauvoo, her presence near the scenes of the martyrdom; her pioneer trip across the bleak frontier to Utah and her leadership in early-day Utah affairs were eloquently reviewed. The speaker referred to her charm and mannerism as evidenced in the number of visitors who sought her acquaintance; and in conclusion he predicted that her place in the historical annals of the west will ever be of the front and highest rank.
ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG
Elder Seymour B. Young gave personal reminiscences of the little pioneer schoolma'am, both as day-school and Sunday school teacher. He had been a pupil under her tuition in Nauvoo. He read extracts telling of the organization by Mrs. Wells of the Press club and Reapers club.
BISHOP C. W. NIBLEY
Presiding Bishop Charles W. Nibley said he regarded "Aunt Em" as one of the finest products of "Mormonism," she having allied herself in her youth with it despite its unpopularity; but she received inspiration from the prophet of the Lord and carried the inspiration of the Almighty in her soul. In "Mormonism," he declared, she had found the real suffrage, and with clear insight she comprehended the teachings of the Church—its great truths, which only the cultured, the true hearted and faithful could fully understand. Her soul was so attuned that she was able to perceive the celestial melodies; and she had the mental force which caused her to be a pillar of strength perhaps more than has been given to any other woman of her day. The speaker
FUNERAL SERVICES OF EMMELINE B. WELLS 359
said he was proud this day to be accounted one of her friends; his life has been better for having been acquainted with her.
ELDER O. F. WHITNEY
Elder O. F. Whitney, after reciting the familiar poem, said "Aunt Em's" life was like a perfect day—it had its clouds and its sunshine, but the clouds were only the background of a more perfect picture. She was not only a poet but an executive. She was a Saint. "To me," said the speaker, "she was a mother, to her I was a son. But what is there now to mourn, what reason to weep? Nothing but the parting. The school is out, the mission ended. What more natural than that the trained child should return home." The speaker concluded by reciting "Crossing the Bar,' a favorite poem of Mrs. Wells.
PRESIDENT C. W. PENROSE
President Charles W. Penrose said there was nothing too good to be said of the departed one whom he regarded as a loving sister. She was bright, keen, quick, and capable to understand the truth. Though small in stature, she was big in spirit. She had always been alert and alive to the right, and was a great executive, following a line of powerful women in the direction of the great Relief Society, There was no selfishness in her soul nor in her work; her hand reached out to the entire world, especially in the matter of suffrage. She was a capable teacher and her name would be remembered, forever. President Penrose then spoke along doctrinal lines in regard to the resurrection, and dwelt upon the comfort that comes from the knowledge that by what is called death we pass through the change from mortality to immortality, as illustrated by the Savior of mankind. " 'Aunt Em' believed in this immortality," President Penrose said, "just as I do; she believed in life after death, in the resurrection of the body, and in the reunion with loved ones on the other side if we have lived so as to be worthy of going where they are. This faith and knowledge should fill our souls with joy and should give us consolation under every trial."
PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT
President Heber J. Grant commented on the significance of the large congregation—one of the largest audiences he had ever witnessed at a funeral held on other than a Sabbath day. "No other woman in the Church," he said, "has had so many prom-
360 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
inent people call on her as our dear departed sister." He spoke of the intimate association of the Grant and Wells families and paid tribute not only to the works of the deceased as a poet and a writer, but also for her loving disposition. He recognized that she had a remarkable capacity of expressing herself in a clear, forceful way, by both tongue and pen; and yet he was inclined to place her loving desire to help others above all others of her characteristics. The association of his mother and Mrs. Wells as president and secretary, respectively, in the Thirteenth ward Relief Society, he said, was one of his most treasured remembrances and he added that next to his mother's the testimony of Mrs. Wells was one of his most impressive memories. He affirmed that all the blessings and rewards promised the true followers of the gospel of Christ would be "Aunt Em's," as she had lived the gospel to the fullest extent of her power.
Judge Not. Ida R. Alldredge
Judge not—for you know not the motive That has guided your neighbor or friend, And the act that you think so unworthy Is oft done to bring good in the end.
Know you not that it's kinder and better Just to wait till you understand well, E'er you speak too severely of others, And their follies too freely you tell?
Oh, so often we judge one another With a prejudice bitter and strong; Little guessing the harm we are doing, Or that we are far more in the wrong.
Look not for the fault in your neighbor, For your own may be fully as great, But strive to forgive one another, Lest you wait till the hour be too late.
Relief Society Annual Report for 1920 Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary
CASH RECEIPTS AND CASH DISBURSEMENTS
Cash Receipts Balance on hand Jan. 1, 1920 Charity Fund......$ 26,579.21 General Fund.,.... 58,383.50 Wheat Fund....... 226,381.88
Donations: Charity Fund...... 85,336.55 General Fund...... 74,985.46 Wheat Fund....... 5,636.67
Annual Dues for General Board......... 9,111.46 Dues for Stake Board 4,064.55 Received for wheat sold 18,273.28 Other receipts........ 58,614.30
Cash Disbursements Paid for charitable purposes.............$ 87,170.50 Paid for General Purposes........ 76,347 68 Paid for Wheat...... 3,813.11 Paid to General Board for Membership Dues 10,042.91 Paid to Stake Board for Dues........... 5,827.95 Paid for other purposes 38,496.54
Total Disbursements.......$221,698.69
Balance on hand December 31, 1920: Charity Fund...... $ 29,043.93 General Fund............ 56,714.77 Wheat Fund............. 243,191.47
$567 366.86 $567,366.86
362 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
WHEAT ACCOUNT Received and Disbursed
Receipts Wheat on hand Jan. 1, 1920... 6,377,702 lbs. Wheat donated during 1920.... 7,682 " Wheat purchased during 1920... 29,277 " Other wheat receipts....... 247,514 "
Total............. 6,662,175 _ lbs. Or............... 111,036.25 bu.
Wheat Account Disbursed Wheat credit with P. B. O. _.. 5,072,902 lbs. Wheat in local Relief Society Granary........... 823,132 " Wheat in other granaries...... 150,097." Other wheat deposits........ 134,800 "
Total wheat on hand and Wheat Credits with P. B. O........ 6,180,931 " Or............... 103,910.5 bu. Wheat sold locally........ 449,581 lbs. Shrinkage, waste and loss....... 31,663 "
Total............. 6,662,175 _. lbs Or............... 111,036.25 bu
Resources and Liabilities
Resources Balance on Hand Dec. 31, 1920. Cash in funds............$345,668.17 Value of wheat on hand and wheat credits with P. B. O., Dec. 31, 1920. 172,973.84 Value of Real Estate, Buildings and Furniture........... 245,163.57 Value of Invested Funds........ 41,498.06 Other Resources.......... 44,764.65
Total.............$850,068.29
Liabilities Indebtedness........... 1,284.67 Balance Net Resources......... 848,783.62
Total.............$850,068,29
RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORT 363
Statistics
Membership January 1, 1920 Officers........... 6,773 Teachers.......... 14,316 Members.......... 24,378
Total enrolled............ 45,467 Admitted to membership during year. 8,847
Total............ 54,314
Statistics
Membership December 31, 1920 Officers............ 7,113 Teachers.......... 15,222 Members.......... 25,869
Total or present membership......... 48,204 Removed or resigned.............. 5,467 Died............. 643
Total ................. 54,314
General Officers and Board Members.............. 23 Stake officers and Board Members.......... 1,073 Number of meetings held.................. 39,212 Average attendance at meetings.................... 14,785 Number of Relief Society organizations............ 1,171 Number of L. D. S. Families in stakes.............. 82,137 Number of Relief Society Magazines taken......... 19,540 Number of visits to wards by stake Relief Society Officers............. 4,734 Number visits made by Relief Society Ward Teachers during year.......... 391,204 Days spent with the sick.................. 56,598 Special visits to the sick................411,019 Families helped............... 5,782 Number of days spent in temple work.............. 61,213 Assistance to missionaries or their families.........$ 8,705.84 Bodies prepared for burial................. 877
Out of the World. By G. Milton Babcock (Continued)
Walter hesitated as he approached his cousin; but before he could say anything she arose and exclaimed impulsively: "You know, Walter, what I told you this afternoon—that 1 would like to meet someone who preached the gospel for something besides money? Well I've found one person who does it!—Mr. Maxwell, here! He is a preacher in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I've been talking with him about it. He wants us to stay to their meeting—why what's the matter—what are you laughing at?" "Well, I'll declare! Here I've been worrying my head off about asking you to stay, and now you're asking me. If you're game to stay, I am; your folks will think I've run off with you, though," "Never mind about them; it isn't every day that one can hear the gospel preached 'without money and without price,' " she rejoined enthusiastically.
CHAPTER VIII
Wonderingly, almost eagerly, Walter and Elizabeth listened to the missionaries as they expounded the scriptures. The meeting over the missionaries walked to the car with them. "Well, Walt, what do you think of them?" "They certainly are odd," he replied; "and yet, it seems that their doctrines are reasonable enough. He convinced me that baptism by immersion is the way the Bible taught—something that my aunt could never do." "But, Walter, do you realize that if immersion is the right way, that it makes our Church wrong, at least so far as that principle is concerned? That'll never do, you know." Walter thought for a moment. "I don't know but you are right, Elizabeth. Still, it doesn't seem possible that the Episcopal church could possibly be anything but the true one. Tell you what I'm going to do: I'm going to read one of these tracts before going to bed. I have no doubt but that I'll find wrong quotations and things mixed up in general in this tract. They probably
OUT OF THE WORLD. - 365
change things to suit their own ideas. How did you come to strike up a conversation with Mr. Maxwell?" "Oh, I happened to pick up one of their hymn books and he saw me and came over. Said he would show me a hymn different from any other, and he turned to number 83—you knew, that one we sang last. I think it is the most beautiful thing I ever heard. Here it is in this little tract, let's read it:"
O MY FATHER
"O, my Father, thou that dwellest In the high and glorious place! When shall I regain Thy presence, And again behold Thy face? In Thy holy habitation, Did my spirit once reside? In my first primeval childhood Was I nurtured near Thy side?"
"Say, that is a wonderful hymn, Elizabeth! I didn't get the gist of it before. Is it possible that we lived before coming here?" "Mr. Maxwell said so, Walter. He quoted a number of passages to prove it and gave me a list to look up. The first one is where God asked Job where he was when the foundations of the earth were laid. Mr. Maxwell said that Job must have been somewhere, for God would not have asked a foolish question. Said that probably he was one of the 'sons of God that shouted for joy,' as the passage reads. They had progressed as far as they could in their pre-existent life and now were happy at the prospect of coming down here and being "added upon," as the elder expressed it. "Then in Jeremiah it says that before he was born, God knew him and ordained him to be a prophet. The third is where the disciples in passing by a man who had been blind since birth, asked: 'Master, who did sin, this man or this parents, that he was born blind?' You see, he must have been living before he came here, or he would not have had the chance to sin before birth. There's several more I'm going to look up." Everyone was in bed. With a short, "Good night," Elizabeth went to her room, while Walter dropped unceremoniously into an easy chair in the parlor. As he turned up the light, he noticed the Bible and the Episcopal Prayer Book lying beside it on the stand. It gave him an idea. Changing to another chair, he placed a "Mormon" author's tract directly in front of him on the stand, with the Bible and Prayer Book on either side of the "Mormon" tract, and started to read the tract. Then a sweet, still, small voice spoke: "The doctrines of Joseph Smith are true, and you can do nothing but accept them, unless you wish to array yourself against God. The clouds of night began to flee; those on the horizon became suffused with an ever-deepening tint. The light of a new day had dawned for Walter.
LINES By Grace Ingles Frost.
Interlacing boughs of Color, Russet, gold and crimson hue; Overhead like some rare jewel, Sky with limpid depths of blue.
On a branch in wide-eyed wisdom, Sits the Sage of feather tribes, As if loath to leave for Pastures where the Warmth of Summer bides.
And unto the Master Artist, My allegiance I renew,
The Gospel in Armenia
Just at this time, when we are 'so interested in the starving children of the Near-East, it is interesting to learn that we have an excellent Relief Society in Aintab. Just recently the General Board received a letter from this Society asking for the prayers of the sisters of the Relief Society, in behalf of our desperately poor and persecuted Saints, in that far-away land. We may be sure the Church authorities will take steps to relieve a portion, at least, of this suffering. Meanwhile, it will be interesting to know something about the translation of the Book of Mormon into the Arabian language; for, as the years go on, there will be more and more association between the Latter-day Saints, and those who are engaged 'in rebuilding Jerusalem. The following sketch has been prepared for us by. F. F. Hintze: When I returned from my second mission to Turkey, I felt able to make a pretty fair translation of the Book of Mormon into Turkish, using the Armenian characters. Our work had been confined to the Armenian people almost exclusively. The Greeks were mostly very indifferent. They called themselves orthodox. They said they had a lineally descended priesthood and authority from the Apostle Paul, even as the Romans claimed they had from St. Peter, and they claimed a better and clearer descending line of Apostolic Authority than the Romans. So what use would they have for any new revelation or church when they had it all? Also they said they were the children of the foremost nation in arts and sciences of long ago. All others were only imitators so they had no use for us, only to laugh at us and mock. The Turks, on the other hand, claimed to be the only true and faithful nation whom Allah loved. They had all truth as embodied in the Law of Moses, the Psalms, the Prophets and the gospel. So they would hear nothing of us. The Turks were in power so they forbade us preaching to them or the followers of Mohammed under their jurisdiction. But they were willing we should convert any Christian Armenians to work among them hoping thereby to sow dissension among the Armenians. They felt that such work would break up Armenian unity and thus make it easier to govern them. So it came about that we did most of our work among the Armenians. Many thousands had joined the American Protestant Mission church, with its variety of creeds, so we simply fell into line and introduced the true gospel among them. We succeeded in baptizing several hundred. About one hundred of these are here in
368 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Utah, doing very well and associating with the Saints fairly well. All or nearly all are members of the Church, and many are very faithful in attending to their duties. Having succeeded so well in obtaining permission to publish pamphlets on my second mission, I published about 28,000. I laid the matter of the publishing of the Book of Mormon before President Joseph F. Smith and his counselors. In due time they approved of the movement, and I was permitted to translate the Book. About that time a man by the name of Lowe, whom I had baptized in the heart of Asia Minor, came here and he was engaged as my scribe. I first translated and wrote the first copy myself. After that he took my copy and copied it with such corrections in idioms as he felt were needed—of course, with mutual consent, and comparing the translation with the English text. He was a good penman so he prepared the printer's copy, besides taking a press copy for the Historian's Office. Here we began to notice the difference in the style of the various writers of the Book of Mormon. We found that some of these different writer's books were very much harder to translate than others. For instance there are Nephi's writings, and the others that follow him, Jacob, Jarom, etc., in Nephi lst and 2nd, who were very much the hardest to handle. Nephi's style of writing was more difficult because the grammatical construction was not like our own; he expressed himself in phrases without their being properly connected. All of which was a great difficulty for us, as the Turkish language is very regular and does not permit of the use of loose phrases without being properly connected. In kindred languages such as English, Danish, and German these difficulties were unnoticed. But in Turkish such sentences and their dependents would often have to be hunted up and rearranged in order to place them in their proper relationship. Sometimes the sentence had to be broken up and the subject reintroduced as a new sentence. Whereas, when we came to Mormon's work and also Moroni's, which were abridgements of other men's writings we found our work much easier. This was apparent to both of us and was cause of much comment. It gave us the philological proof that instead of the Book of Mormon being the human product of the Prophet Joseph Smith we had evidence that it was the work of many writers just as the Bible is written by many. Each prophet has his own method of expressing the word and will of God which as a whole code of theology is a perfect unity, but when told by many prophets in their own way and by the gift of their own personality, language and environment, it is as diversified as are the prophet-writers. Just so we found the Book of Mormon. We knew the Prophet Joseph was too young and too unlearned to be able to change the manner of speech of these different characters
THE GOSPEL IN ARMENIA 369
of the Book as some fiction writers can do who are learned and gifted that way. Lowe accepted this as a new witness and strong evidence of the divinity of the Book of Mormon. But it did not rest at that. When I went back to Boston to publish the Book of Mormon I succeeded in getting the services of the Rev. Bool, a learned Armenian, a very able and honest man to help me to reread, and connect up the manuscript before we went to press with it. This we did by his reading the Armenian manuscript while I read the Book of Mormon in English, carefully comparing the work, verse by verse. In this way he obtained, of course, a thorough insight into the style of writing found in the Book of Mormon. He himself called my attention to the difference in the manner of speech and writing of some of these great prophet-authors. This is the more remarkable because it was discovered by one who was not a member of the Church, and not in sympathy with our work. I related the circumstances to Pres. John G. McQuarrie of the Eastern States mission, while in Boston upon an official visit. He thought it so remarkable and such a strong and plain evidence of the honesty of the Book of Mormon translator that he wanted to have it on record. It is not to be understood that the Rev. Bool intended to bear testimony to the divinity to the Book of Mormon, but in the honesty of his soul he confessed that the Book was not the work of One writer but the work of different authors. This was a confession that the work was on its face not the product of Joseph Smith. This in itself is a great testimony. Mr. Bool was very anxious that the Book should not bias him towards it nor spoil him for his ministerial duties, but his personal contact with me and my work did not fail to leave its impression, and will, with many such similar experiences, bring its fruits in due time. He will surely get a blessing for his honest effort in putting the Book in as good a style and as presentable and creditable a condition as was possible with the means and ability at our disposal.
TO MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS
Oh! Wondrous woman! Adown the ages yet to come, Your name will be spoken In sweetness and with love.
The farthest, most remote of lands, And on islands, wind swept coves, The blessings of the Master reach, That came from thy dear hands.
—Lovingly your Friend, Mrs. Louise Coulson.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth.
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - First Counselor MRS, LOUISA YATES ROBISON - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Susa Young Gates Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - Susa Young Gates Business Manager - - - - - - Jeanette A. Hyde Assistant Manager - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. VIII. JUNE, 1921. No. 6.
VITAL QUESTIONS
The day of younger women with their eager enthusiasms, zest of conquest, and boundless vision opens wide its doors into Relief Society activities. The example set in the reorganization of our General Officers and Board in the choosing of so many young matrons will no doubt be followed by the stake and ward authorities. This is perhaps, just as it should be. I see this army with banners marching into the field so long occupied, almost exclusively, by the mothers and grandmothers; and as they file past my vision, I am moved to ask these blessed adventurers some questions: Are you strict observers of the Word of Wisdom? Do you play cards? Do you wear your clothing with that sacred modesty taught in the temple of the living God? Do you give countenance, by word or by example, to the deadly evil of so-called birthcontrol, or limitation of offspring? These are crucial tests in this wicked day and age, and unless our lovely and beloved daughters can meet the test fairly and triumphantly they are not yet ready to bear upon their shoulders the symbolic emblems of
EDITORIAL: 371
spiritual service so long and faithfully worn by the mothers of the passing generation. Writers are focusing attention on our "wasted generation." Immodesty of dress is decried in every decent corner of the land today. While great organizations, east and west, are devoted solely to the correction of these evils which we know are corrupting both the individual and social life. These tests should be applied to both members and officers of this and all other auxiliaries. Our youthful soldiers of the cross, now coming into public service, however, must now assume the direct burden of correcting these evils, and thus they may strengthen the morals of the community, What Then of the Woman Grown Grey in Service? Not least of Present day Relief Society Problems is the kindly taking thought for those older women who are now and Not in this Church and kingdom. There are still gospel principles to study, sad homes to visit, Meetings everywhere to attend. But above and beyond all, the temples open wide their Portals for all who care to enter therein. No educational nor Marriages? What do you know about Marriage for time and eternity? What are your objections to temple marriages? And 372 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the grandmother will find herself in a wide, almost uncharted sea of youthful ignorance and prejudice which she can not satisfy nor correct without hours of study and prayer. Her work will open up before her in limitless possibilities. So we may all find use for ourselves and wide opportunity for loving, active service, as long as the flame of life burns in these aging bodies. And when the kind angel of death reaches over to snuff the fluttering light of life, we shall sink back on our last couch to pleasant dreams with the sure promise of wider fields of labor and more glorious realms of service. 'BOOK NOTICES One of the most charming expositions of beauty and nature has recently been published under the title of God's Country, The Trail to Happiness, by James Ofiver Curwood. Mr. Curwood himself says: "Nature is my religion. And my desire—my ambition—the great goal I wish to achieve is to take my readers with me into the heart of this Nature. I love it, and I feel that they must love it—if I can only get the two acquainted." The one objection that our Latter-day Saint readers would find in the book is that the author sets up Nature as a substitute for our Father in Heaven. The pantheistic, beautiful atmos- ' phere of his book makes the subtle appeal of infidelity the more dangerous to young, uninformed minds. However, the readers of the Magazine would not be thus troubled in reading the book. This book is published by the Cosmoplitan Book Corporation, 119 West Fortieth Street, New York. A book, Christianity The Final Religion, written by a Christian minister who has had wide experience in Mohammedanism, has just been published by Erdmans-Sevensma Co. Grand Rapids, Michigan, and is written by the Rev. Samuel M. Zwemer. The Chapter titles indicate the nature of the book and the conclusion reached by the Rev. Author appeals to L. D. S. Readers. Certainly the foundation thought of the triumph of Christianity will meet with general approval. TWILIGHT Maud M. Cook How calm, how peaceful, in twilight, as day In silent regret to the night gives away, And stops, in passing, to shed mellow light Over all, as a last loving touch ere her flight. A light, gentle breeze just stirs the trees, And whispers so gently of comfort and ease. How calm and how peaceful, is the twilight of life, After the toil, the turmoil, and strife Have passed; and left only the peace sublime. Steals into the heart, this softening time, Tempers the sorrows, brightens the joys— It brightens the pearls, discarding alloys— Surrounding it all with love's golden rays, Covering life's twilight with life's richest rays. HE LOVES ME By Abbie R. Madisen He loves me, he loves me, This I do know, For his eyes and his lips They tell me so. He speaks not a word, Just laughs and crows, But by these very signs A mother knows. W. R. McDONALD, Pres.; D. H. CANNON, Mgr. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market WILL LAST A LIFE TIME—36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY and! — RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921, "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays _and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices. I Call at our Burial Clothes Department. Room 22 Bishop's Building. Prompt attention given all out of town orders. TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month For the past TEN MONTHS. A of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have You Seen It? Dependable The Deseret News Progressive The Utah State National Bank The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them. Officers Heser J. Grant, President. Cuartes W. Nistey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Atvin C. Stronc, Assistant Cashier. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine, of which they will be glad to dispose at the price quoted be low: 12 Vols. Of 1915 Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1915 Leather Bound 2.00 1 Vol. Of 1918 Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols. Of 1919 Cloth Bound... 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919 Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920 Cloth Bound.. 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920 Leather Se Extra for postage. All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City. Utah. Bound volumes of the Magazine make appropriate gifts. Etc DELIVERED EVERYWHERE P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City See Cream For the "Good old Summer time" Phone Was. 3223 Bound...... 3.00 Watch for Our New "Mountaineer" Strong Seam Overalls, Auto Suits, Kiddies' Allovers 7 For Boys, Youths and Men. They don't rip; wear like leather. 4 Uses Roof Garden Chocolate (Sweetened) Cake Icing Bon Bon Dipping Hot Chocolate Eating New, different, delicious—Roof Garden Chocolate is a sweetened chocolate that is at once a dainty confection for eating, a bon bon coating, a rich drinking chocolate and an icing for cake. In any of its four uses, Roof Garden Chocolate requires no butter, no sugar, no eggs and no flavoring. And it's absolutely no trouble. Complete and simple directions are on every package. McDonald's New York Chicago Salt Lake San Francisco A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language—a language understood by everybody. Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"—the kind they make at Phone Was. 2861 40 6 Main St., Salt Lake Lumiere Studio RELIEF SOCIety MAGAZINE ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy. VOLUME VIII JULY, 1921 NUMBER 7 L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS Brand The Sign of Comfort The Sign of GARMENTS If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. Style Price Style Price 1 Special Summer weight $1.25 24 Unbranded special, light wt. 1.25 15 Bleached spring needle gauze 1.75 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached... 2.25 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached. 2.00 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached 2.50 . 90 Cotton, heavy wt. Unbleached 2.50 50 Lisle, gauze wt., bleached... 2.65 107 Merino wool, medium wt..... 3.75 109 Merino wool, heavy weight... 4.25 65 Mercerized, It. Wt., bleached 3.75  305 Australian wool, It. Wt........ 6.00 1922 Pure Glove Silk..................12.00 We make BATHING SUITS. Ask for what you want—we will fit you. Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 Main St  Salt Lake City The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop. $100.00  For this Beauty Take 15 Months to Pay Daynes Beebe Music Co 61-3-5 Main St OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices Call at our Burial Clothes Department 22 Bishop's Building Prompt attention given all out of town orders TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 Salt Lake City Have you a ring or pin with the Birthstone for July? If not, write or call on W. M. McCONAHAY The Reliable Jeweler 64 So. Main St. Phone W.1821 Salt Lake City, Utah Latter-Day Saints Garments APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. 104 Light Summer Weight (Bleached).........$1.25 111 Light weight, cotton................ 1.50 120 Light weight, bleached.......... 1.65 160 Medium weight, cotton........ 1.75 122 Medium weight, bleached... 190 Heavy weight, cotton............ 2.50 124 Heavy weight, bleach 150 Extra white Mercs 116 Heavy wool, mixed 4.00 2.00 118 Extra heavy wool.................. 5.00 MODEL KNITTING WORKS No. 657 Iverson St. Salt Lake City, Utah What Do Your Children Read? Guiding children in their reading is a big, vital problem. There are so man, wholesome, inspiring volumes that you cannot afford to let them read anything trashy or cheap. Co-operate with our Juvenile Department. Let us suggest Books that are high class, Books that meet the personal tastes, adapted to various ages. Write for lists. Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street Ladies Tailoring and Dressmaking Alterations reasonable. 715 So. 8th E. Hy. 4152-W. Send your hemstitching, accordeon plaiting, buttons and dry cleaning by parcel post. 'Quick Service. Salt Lake's Leading Opticians LOUIS A. JAMES and DONALD C. JAMES OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS Globe Optical Company East 2nd South (Walker Bank Bldg.) Salt Lake City, Utah 111 Light weight, cotton............... 150 150 Extra white Mercs.......... 3.00 The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS JULY, 1921 President Clarissa Smith Williams................Frontispiece Show Me the Way Alice Foutz 373 Greeting from the General Presidency of the Relief Society........ 375 Our New Presidency and General Board............. 378 Our Music Forces Out of the World........Milton G. Babcock 405 Notes from the Field................Amy Brown Lyman 409 World Happenings......James H. Anderson 413 Editorial: Our President Emeritus, Emmeline B. Wells......, 416 With the Gift of an Aprons 417 Guide Lessons........ 418 ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who patronize us. BUREAU OF INFORMATION, Temple Block, Salt Lake City, Utah. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY, 305 South Main Street, Salt' Lake City, Utah. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DICKINSON'S, 680 East Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DRUGLESS HEALTH INSTITUTE, Logan, Utah. THE DESERET NEWS, Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. GLOBE OPTICAL CO., East Second South, Salt Lake City, Utah. KEELEY'S, Salt Lake City, Utah. LUMIERE STUDIO, Salt Lake City, Utah, 6 Main St. McDONALD CANDY CO., Sait Lake City, Utah. MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT, Bishop's Building Salt Lake City. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City, Utah. Z. C. M. I., Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah. Show Me the Way By Alice Foutz Father in heaven, to thee I bring My wounded, sore, rebellious heart. Thy balm, thy peace, I humbly crave, I would be more, Lord, as thou art Show me the way. Make me more humble, chaste and pure; Thy Spirit guide me day and night, That I may feel "thy will be done," Make me more worthy in thy sight. Show me the way. For such as I gave thou thy life, Thou suffered on the cross and bled; Yet still thou bidst me bring my grief, Rest at thy feet my weary head, Show me the way. Thou knowest all my grief and woe, Bestow on me thy kindly smile, Thy healing influence round me shed, Walk thou with me my little mile. Show me the way.
PRESIDENT CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Sixth General President of the Relief Society
THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. VIII. JULY, 1921 No. 7
Greeting From the General Presidency of the Relief Society
To our beloved co-workers, the Relief Society women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we extend love and heart-felt good wishes. We are grateful to our heavenly Father for his blessings and his guidance which have been with the Society since its organization, and we humbly pray for a continuance of his divine favor in all our future efforts. Having been called through the Holy Priesthood to serve in these responsible positions, we are anxious to magnify the call to the best of our ability. In our effort to go forward in the performance of this duty, we shall need the faith and prayers and support of every individual member of the organization, as well as the help of our Father in heaven, for all of which we humbly pray.
Since the organization of the Relief Society, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, March 17, 1842, the growth of the institution, like the growth of the mighty oak, has been substantial and continuous. With the aid and counsel of the General Authorities of the Church, and under the immediate leadership of the faithful and devoted women who have served as officers, supported by united and efficient workers, the great organization has grown in membership from 18 in the beginning to 48,204 today, with 1,171 branches, located not only in the United States, Canada, and Mexico, but in Europe and on the islands of the sea.
The service of the Relief Society has been even greater than its numerical growth, and it has extended throughout the Church wherever there has been need of a helping hand or a sympathetic heart. The sick, the weary and the sorrowful have been ministered to, and comforted; the needy and distressed have been succored; the aged have been visited and cheered, and the dead have been tenderly laid away.
376 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
In addition to this service, much time has been spent and a great deal of effort put forth along preventive lines, in strengthening the virtues of the community and improving conditions which have helped to cause many of the present day physical and social ills. Relief Society women have worked for better laws, for the enforcement of existing laws, and for all community movements which have had for their object the development of the community and the improvement of mankind.
These special duties, which were given to the organization by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the beginning, and other later commissions to the society, such as the storing of grain, the training of nurses, the establishment of the Woman's Exponent, and later the Relief Society Magazine, the work for the dead, etc., have all been faithfully carried forward. The present great interest in temple work is no doubt due in a large measure to the efforts of the women of the Relief Society.
In addition to its regular activities, the Relief Society, during the recent war, gave substantial assistance to the government. In the work of the State Council of Defense, in the food production and food conservation campaigns, in the Liberty Loan drives, and all phases of Red Cross work, the members of the Society were in the front ranks of the patriotic women of the country. Probably one of the most effective pieces of work done for the government during the war, by the society, was the turning over to the Food Administration of more than one hundred thousand bushels of wheat.
While rendering all this service, the spirit of testimony and the love of truth have ever been uppermost with the women of the Society, and the desire to live in conformity with the gospel in its fulness has been the goal toward which every Relief Society woman has striven.
Nor have Relief Society women worked only for others and for one another in loving service, but they have worked with one another, in a united systematic effort for their own improvement and education, by close application and careful study, with two objects in view: first, to fit and train themselves for better service as leaders, teachers, and mothers in Israel; and, second, to raise their own personal standards physically, mentally, and spiritually. They have studied the gospel of Jesus Christ eagerly with other subjects related thereto, and have taken up various courses along other lines, such as literature, art, home economics, and community welfare work.
Realizing that the most important factors in the success of the Relief Society are the loyalty and devotion of the individual members who make up the organization, our hearts go out in gratitude to them one and all, and we pray that these women who
GREETING — 377
are absolutely loyal to the Society, and to their leaders, and who lay self aside to work for the great good and the ultimate success of the Society, will be blessed and comforted and have peace of mind forever.
We commend and appreciate the work of all who are connected with the organization: the general officers and board members with their special work, the stake and local officers with the detail work, and every single member of the Society. We respectfully ask you all to help us in the loving work of the Master, in which we are all engaged.
Everybody eligible is needed. The dear aged sisters are needed always, because they are ripe in wisdom and full of faith and testimony. What would the organization be without them? The middle-aged women are needed because of their vigor and power and ability to give service. The young mothers, though they have many cares, are needed because, with their bright and eager minds, they give efficient help and great inspiration, and because they also need training themselves; for in a few years they will be left to carry on the work.
The work of the great Relief Society as guided by our late beloved President, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells and her associates, and by those faithful and energetic women who preceded them, supported by the women of the Church, has no doubt been gratifying to our heavenly Father, as it has been to the authorities of the Church. Let us continue with this labor of love. Let us not be satisfied unless we do our best in all things. Let us be alert and improve our service to others by study and training. Let us not forget the objects for which we were organized, but faithfully magnify our calling in the service of God and humanity, and extend our activities as conditions may demand.
Let us not forget to emphasize our testimony bearing, for our testimonies and our faith are increased and made stronger, by so doing. And above all things let us earnestly seek the Lord for his guidance, realizing that all the gifts and learning of the world cannot compare with the knowledge and testimony of the gospel.
Now, dear sisters, may the Lord give you much joy in your labors, and may he bless you and bless us with his Holy Spirit continually, is our constant prayer.
CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS, JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT, LOUISA YATES ROBISON, General Presidency National Woman's Relief Society.
Our New Presidency and General Board
After the release of our long-time leader President Emmeline B. Wells, on April 1, 1921, and her counselors and board, her first counselor, Clarissa Smith Williams, was appointed by the Presidency of the Church to be General President of the Relief Society. The story of this reorganization was given in full in the last number of the Magazine. Now we are presenting to our readers sketches of President Williams, and all of her officers and board members that our sisters may become somewhat acquainted with the new workers who have been chosen to these responsible positions. As we visit you, and you visit the semi-annual conferences, you will gradually become familiar with our faces, our voices, and our general characteristics. We come before you in true meekness of spirit, and bespeak for us all, even the last and the youngest, your hearty support, your love, prayers and full confidence. Only so can we and you fulfil our high and holy destiny. We owe you service and devotion, you owe us fealty and affection. To the future we turn our upward gaze and we know in Whom we trust!
SKETCH OF CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS
Our honored new President Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams comes to her task with a ripe experience, a wide vision, and a clear comprehension of her future problems. She is among the best type of pioneer descendant, herself not unfamiliar with pioneer toil and pioneer sacrifices.
Mrs. Williams was born in this city in the old Historian's Office, on East South Temple St. It was at that time the home of her parents, the late President George A. Smith and Susan E. West Smith. Her father was then Church Historian and was later first counselor to President Brigham Young. President Smith was a first cousin to Joseph Smith, the prophet, their fathers being brothers. Mrs. Williams' mother is still living in this city, and is a well known temple worker.
Mrs. Williams' education was acquired in the best schools the territory then afforded. She was graduated from the University of Deseret, now the University of Utah, in 1875. After her graduation she successfully conducted a private school and
NEW PRESIDENT AND GENERAL BOARD — 379
was afterwards employed in the city and county schools. She was married to William N. Williams, July 17, 1877, and they have seven living children, two sons and five daughters.
From her early girlhood, Sister Williams has been an active and faithful Church worker, filling the positions of Sunday school teacher, and first counselor in the first Primary organization in the Seventeenth ward. Later she became actively engaged in Relief Society work, a work which she has continuously and perseveringly carried on. She commenced her labor in the Relief Society at the age of sixteen as assistant block teacher; was secretary and later president of the Seventeenth ward Relief Society and was assistant secretary of the old Salt Lake stake organization. At the time of the division of the old Salt Lake stake, in 1904, Sister Williams was appointed president of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society. November 7, 1901, she was appointed treasurer and member of the Board of Directors of the General Relief Society. At the April general conference of the Church, in 1911, she was appointed first counselor to the president of the Relief Society, Emmeline B. Wells, which position she held till the recent reorganization.
She has traveled extensively in the interests of the Relief Society, having visited many of the stakes of Zion throughout Utah and the United States. She has attended as the Relief Society delegate various congresses of the National Council of Women, of the United States (with which organization the Relief Society is affiliated) having visited New Orleans, La., and Toledo, Ohio. In May, 1914, she attended the International Council of Women in Rome, Italy, having been elected one of nine delegates from the United States to that conference. At the close of the sessions in Rome (which lasted two weeks), she and her husband toured Italy, Switzerland, France, Germany, England and Wales.
In addition to her Church work, Mrs. Williams has devoted some time to the advancement of women, and to literary and patriotic work. She is a charter member of both the Utah Society of the Daughters of the Revolution and of the Daughters of the Pioneers. She is a member of the Authors' Club, the Red Cross Civilian Relief Committee, and is first vice-president of the Women's Civic Center. During the recent war she was appointed chairman of the Women's Committee National Council of Defense, for the state of Utah, by Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, national chairman of women. Mrs. Williams was also appointed chairman of women's work for the state of Utah and a member of the executive committee of the State Council of Defense, by the Governor.
Mrs. Williams is gifted with rare executive ability, and is a natural leader of women, being endowed with the highest qualities of mind and heart. Her genial and friendly disposition, her
380 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
pleasant personality, and her goodness instinctively draw every one to her. She is sympathetic and charitable and delights in making others happy. Although Mrs. Williams has given much valuable service to the Church and to the public, she is typically a home woman, and is a loving, patient and devoted mother to her large family.
Our new president is well qualified to carry on the beautiful traditions of sacrifice and service left behind by her worthy predecessors. Mrs. Williams measures well up to their standards and begins her new duties with the love and prayers of all her associates both far and near.
MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT
Mrs. Jennie Brimhall Knight, First Counselor to Sister Clarissa Smith Williams, was born in Spanish Fork, Utah, December 13, 1875. She is the daughter of Alsina E. Wilkins and George Henry Brimhall, President Emeritus of the Brigham Young University. She was married to Jesse William Knight, January 18, 1899, in the Salt Lake temple.
Jennie was brought up under the most favorable conditions, spiritual and educational. The position to which Mrs. Knight has been called is an important one, but we are confident that the marked success that has crowned her efforts in past undertakings, will be enjoyed in her new activities.
The spirit of service has always actuated the life of Mrs. Knight, through which she has made a host of friends and admirers who appreciate her splendid efforts in the accomplishment of good. Service of this kind will not be a new experience for Mrs. Knight, for, throughout her life, she has been associated with organizations established for the betterment of mankind. For five years she was stake president of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement association, in Taylor stake, Canada, and upon her return to Utah, presided over the Utah stake organization for eight years, during which period she was matron of the Brigham Young
NEW PRESIDENT AND GENERAL BOARD — 381
University for three years, of which institution she was a graduate. Since that time she rendered faithful and efficient service in the Relief Society organizations throughout Utah stake.
Mrs. Knight and Mrs. R. E. Allen, the present president of the Utah Stake Relief Society, have the honor and distinction of being the first two regularly called lady missionaries to labor in foreign missions, and filled a faithful mission in England.
During the world war, Mrs. Knight was chosen second vice-president of the Women's Council of Defense of this state, and while engaged in that work, went to Washington, D. C., to represent Utah and her people.
The selection of Mrs. Jennie Brimhall Knight as first counselor to President Clarissa Smith Williams, will meet with wide favor from hosts of people who know and respect her honored father, the famous educator, Dr. George H. Brimhall. Essentially modest and retiring in her own nature, which quality she largely inherits from her mother, Jennie still possesses an abundance of lively intelligence, which prompts her to seek eagerly after the larger and better things of life. Sister Knight has been reared in that struggle and toil which develops the pure gold of character. Her marriage into a prominent and wealthy family, but served to enlarge her naturally deep sympathies, and to strengthen her eager desire for loving service to all mankind. Her husband is one of the presidents of the Utah stake of Zion and is himself among the noblest type of Utah Pioneer descendants entirely without pretense or pride, as are all of Uncle Jesse Knight's family. Sister Knight will fill her new station with grace and inspiration, while acknowledging her constant dependence on that divine guidance which she has ever sought and found.
SKETCH OF MRS. LOUISA YATES ROBISON
Sister Robison was born in Scipio, Millard county, Utah, fifty-five years ago, when the little town consisted of two or three log rooms and a score of "dugouts." A log stockade served as a meetinghouse and place of refuge for the women and children during the Indian uprising which was at its height at the time of her birth. Louie's first journey was taken when five days old. Kind neighbors lifted her mother's bed in a wagon and themselves pulled the wagon into the stockade, the Indians having killed three men of the little colony, and driven away all the horses and cattle.
Sister Robison does not claim the honor of being an original, honest-to-goodness 1847, Utah pioneer, but she did pass through much of pioneer life. She has helped to wash, dye, spin, and
382 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
weave the cloth for her dress; knit her stockings, braid the straw, and make the paper flowers for her hat. Her parents were Thomas Yates, for many years Bishop of Scipio, and Elizabeth Francis Yates, who will be remembered by the older sisters for her excellent work as president of the Relief Society of Millard stake. Fine, high principled English people, the parents were, whose simple home life was ideal. Under her mother's leadership Sister Robison has "gleaned" wheat for the Relief Society, gathered Sunday eggs, sat up with the sick, and helped care for the dead. She attended the Brigham Young Academy in Provo for a short time only, as she was married when very young to Joseph L. Robison. Her husband has always encouraged her to keep up her religious and public work which she has done even while rearing her family. She has borne two sons and four daughters, and is a devoted wife and mother: as a proof of this, her grownup son calls her his inspiration. This same love and comradeship has been the secret of her success in the Mutuals where she was ward president for years. When the call came for women's work in the World's War, Sister Robison took the training in surgical dressing and not only qualified as supervisor of the gauze room but was sent by the Red Cross as instructor of classes. In 1914 Mrs. Leonora T. Harrington, president of the Granite stake Relief Society, selected her as a board member and later as her first counselor. Here she has endeared herself to the women of the stake. Sister Robison is also greatly interested in genealogy, at which she is working every hour she can spare from home and other duties.
Some will wonder about the choosing of many of our new board members; but those who once meet our new second counselor, and those who are moved by her natural eloquence, which is always informed and permeated by the spirit of love for the
NEW PRESIDENT AND GENERAL BOARD — 383
Savior and all of his children—these will no longer wonder why President Clarissa Smith Williams, chose this lovely and loving heart to assist her in her new responsibilities. Not only is our Sister Robison gifted with tender affection and solicitude, she possesses in herself large powers of initiative, coupled with practical ability to focus and realize her visions and dreams. She is very tactful and never antagonize those with whom she labors, for she is far more interested in the work of righteousness than she is in her own honor or glory. She is greatly beloved in the Granite stake of Zion, and her president, Mrs. Leonora T. Harrington, in mourning over the loss of "her right hand man," as she expressed it, can only be comforted by the assurance that she herself, with her own powers of leadership can easily proceed to train a few more women like Sister Robison and Sister Whipple for wider spheres of usefulness. The General Board of the Relief Society are enriched by these recent Granite stake acquisitions; especially are we all grateful for the sweet association of our Counselor Sister Louisa Yates Robison.
MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN By Alice Reynolds
General Secretary of the General Board of the Relief Society, is a daughter of John Brown, a pioneer of 1847, and Margaret Zimmerman. She was born in Pleasant Grove, Utah, February 7, 1872. She is of Scotch-Irish and German extraction, a mixture of blood that accounts for her intellectual balance, and much of her native charm. Her distinctive brown hair and brown eyes come to her from the Bavarian Germans from whom she is descended.
As a child she loved to study, a fact not to be wondered at when one realizes that her maternal grandfather was graduated from A German
384 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
University, and that her father was teaching school with the end in view of entering a college to prepare for the ministry, when he became a convert to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
In her early "teens" Mrs. Lyman entered the Brigham Young University, from which institution she was graduated with the class of 1890, the last year of Dr. Maeser's official connection with the school. Among her classmates, with whom she was a great favorite, she was noted for her fidelity to work, her common sense, and her abundant good nature.
Miss Brown was placed at once on the teaching staff of her alma mater, where for four years she taught in the training school of that institution. In addition to the work in her department, she taught Domestic Art and Physical Culture, being one of the first students to take training under Professor Maud May Babcock. She also served as matron of the institution. From the first she was talented as a teacher; teaching with her was a veritable gift.
The two years following her work in Provo, she taught in the Salt Lake City schools, under the superintendency of Dr. J. F. Millspaugh. Here, as in Provo, her teaching attracted unusual attention, and had she not been contemplating marriage, she would in all probability have yielded to Dr. Millspaugh's earnest request to train for supervision work.
Mrs. Lyman was married September 9, 1896, to Richard R. Lyman, now a member of the Council of the Twelve, and a son of President Francis M. Lyman. They have two children, Wendell Brown and Margaret.
For a number of years, Mrs. Lyman's chief energy was directed to home-making. Her sense of order, and above all else the sweetness of her nature, make of her a home-maker and hostess of the first rank.
In the fall of 1902, Professor Lyman, then on the teaching staff of the University of Utah, obtained a leave of absence to do graduate work in the East. Mrs. Lyman accompanied him, and both in the University of Chicago and Cornell University, she availed herself of many of the opportunities for advancement that are offered in centers of learning. While at the Brigham Young University, she took the courses in Psychology and Pedagogy given by Professor Benjamin Cluff, and since moving to Salt Lake City has taken work in both history and English at the University of Utah.
Fortunately for all with whom she is connected, she was called forth from the home to minister in a public sphere. Amy Brown Lyman began her Church work as secretary of a primary association at the age of eleven. She has held all the chief offices
NEW PRESIDENT AND GENERAL BOARD — 385
in the Mutual Improvement Association of a ward, been connected with the Sunday School as teacher, and was Teaching in an M. I. A. Class when she was called to the General Board of the Relief Society, October 5, 1909. On May 25, 1911, she became assistant secretary and on the resignation of Olive D. Christensen in August, 1913, she became General Secretary of the association.
It would seem that in the very nature of things she was destined to become a secretary, for she has held that office in so many organizations in which she has served. Taking into consideration her other qualifications for the work, it is eminently fitting that she should have been chosen secretary of this chiefest woman's organization of the Church.
That she has brought to her high office the talent and ability to do her work is evident from what has already been accomplished. She has installed a thorough up-to-date filing system, an accurate, well indexed record of the activities of the General Board, and established a permanent and accurate system of keeping the accounts.
During the period of Mrs. Lyman's connection with the organization she has been three times a delegate to the National Council of Women, once a delegate to the Congress of Women of the United States. In recent years she has been deeply interested in family welfare work and has made a special study of this fundamental portion of Relief Society work. At the beginning of the world war she took the Red Cross Home Service Course, and a year later spent two months in field work in the Denver City Charity Office. In connection with this work she has been three times a representative to the National Conference of Social Workers.
That Mrs. Lyman has marked ability as an executive is apparent to all acquainted with her work, yet her success in the past and the present is not only due to her intellectual acumen, her persistency and hard work, her sense of order and ability "to put things over," but also to a kindly sympathy that understands, and a rare personality which some thinkers affirm to be the greatest of all the gifts. Hers is a personality that wins on the instant, a personality that has brought to her a host of admirers, who are devoted and willing to follow where she leads. And all her natural gifts have been heightened by her love of truth, as revealed in the gospel of Jesus Christ. The daughter of a mother of very rare spiritual nature, and of a pioneer father, for many years a bishop, herself a student of Karl G. Maeser; a wife of a member of the Council of Twelve, truly this highly gifted woman has been and is in an environment eminently fitting for one chosen to be a spiritual leader in Israel.
386 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
SKETCH OF MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY
Mrs. Emma A. Empey who was appointed as general treasurer of the Relief Society, in May, 1911, held that position with signal success until the recent reorganization of the Board; she has, therefore, had a decade of fruitful experience in service on this Board and is well qualified thereby for her new duties. She was born at Tipton, Staffordshire, England, and received her education in an English private school for girls. Her father was John Adams, and her mother was Sarah Tranter Adams. Her family came to Utah in September, 1881, and went to St. George on a visit to her Uncle Samuel Adams, returning to Salt Lake shortly after and settling here.
Emma was married, June 24, 1890, to Bishop Nelson Empey who was then a widower. She was naturally of a clerical mind, thrifty and yet generous to a fault, and with a tender heart for those in distress, so that she became a great help to her husband in the accounting and visiting duties of his office. She was appointed superintendent of the Women's Department of the State Fair, in 1903, which position she held until 1912, after becoming a member of the general board of the Relief Society.
On March 6, 1900, Mrs. Empey was appointed superintendent of the Relief Society nurses, which responsible office she pioneered, creating an Exchange Bureau of wide usefulness between our physicians, nurses and the people who needed this kindly help. She has filled that position faithfully up to the present time.
Mrs. Empey is conscientious, loyal to her religion and of a natural kindly, gracious temperament. She is a fine example of the well-trained English housewife and lady. Mrs. Empey becomes the senior member of the General Board through her new appointment. She will be, as always, wise in counsel, conservative in action, and will be always loyal to the Priesthood and to her associates.
SKETCH OF SUSA YOUNG GATES By John A. Widtsoe
Susa Young Gates, daughter of President Brigham Young and Lucy Bigelow Young, was born March 18, 1856, the first child born in the Lion House. Mrs. Gates was educated in the University of Utah and the Brigham Young Academy at Provo. She also studied literature and physical education in the summer school of Harvard University, in 1892.
NEW PRESIDENT AND GENERAL BOARD — 387
On January 5, 1879, she married Jacob F. Gates. Her living children, all well known, are: Mrs. John A. Widtsoe, Professor Brigham Cecil Gates, Mrs. A. E. Bowen (Emma Lucy Gates) Harvey Gates, and Franklin Y. Gates. She has buried seven sons and one daughter.
From her earliest childhood, Mrs. Gates has been devoted to education and has exceptional literary and artistic abilities coupled with unusual powers of organization and leadership. In her early youth she learned stenography and was an official reporter of the first Retrenchment Society in 1870, and of the dedication services of the St. George, Logan and Salt Lake temples. In 1879 she organized the music department, and in 1894 the domestic science department, of the Brigham Young University. During her student days, she was a member of the 1868-70 staff of the College Lantern, the University of Utah magazine; in 1889 she founded the Young Woman's Journal which she edited for eleven years, when she presented her holdings in the property to the General Board of Y. L. M. I. A.; in 1914, by appointment of President Joseph F. Smith, she became the first Editor of the Relief Society Magazine.
The literary labors of Mrs. Gates have been voluminous. Stories, plays, poetry, editorials and essays have flowed steadily from her pen for over fifty years. She published the first elementary treatise on genealogy in 1907, and in 1915, an elaborate surname book; for thirteen years she edited the genealogical department in the Deseret News which department she founded; she has published a history of the Y. L. M. I. A., and has written many of the Relief Society guide lessons; an indefatigable student of the scriptures, she is also well versed in Church History. She wrote Lydia Knights History and Heroines of Mormondom. Her novel John Stevens Courtship is a well-known "Mormon" classic.
Mrs. Gates has been an intelligent and valiant promoter of Woman's Suffrage. She has taken part in local, national and world movements for the proper emancipation of woman; and served five years as National Chairman of the Press Committee of the National Woman's Council; and in connection with this work she has visited Washington, to attend Women's conventions five times; in 1899 she was an official speaker and delegate to the London Woman's Congress; at the Copenhagen Woman's Congress she was the sole United U.S. Representative of the International
388 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
President Mrs. May Wright Sewell; in 1914 she was a delegate and speaker at the Woman's congress in Rome; and introduced Genealogical Class work in the International Genealogical Conference held in San Francisco in 1915. She was one of the U. S. Delegates and a speaker at the International Household Economic Congress in Canada in 1902, and was the guest of honor at the Omaha Congress of the same body in the year following; she headed the Utah delegation which attended the final and triumphant Woman's Suffrage victory Convention in Chicago in February, 1920, and received the Utah gold medal as one of the first women voters of 1870. In addition she has traveled frequently and widely in many parts of the earth. In this public work she has been aided by her power of clear thought and splendid public speaking.
In 1889 Mrs. Gates was made a member of the General Board of Y. L. M. I. A. On which she served until May 8, 1911, when she was appointed by President Joseph F. Smith a member of the General Board of the Relief Society. She held the office of Corresponding Secretary to the Board from September 25, 1913, to April 2, 1921. For many years she has served faithfully and devotedly as a temple worker, beginning her work under her father's appointment as a recorder and temple worker in the opening of the St. George Temple, January 1, 1877. She is the oldest member in term of service of the Board of Trustees of the Brigham Young University (since 1892) and was a trustee of the Agricultural College for seven years from 1905-11. She is a member of the leading National Genealogical Societies among them being the New England and London societies, is an honorary member of the California Genealogical Society and an Associate member of the National Genealogical Society at Washington, D. C.
By word and pen Mrs. Gates has inspired hundreds of young people to make their lives more serviceable. She has given fully to others of her time and means and magnetic personality. Her first constant thought has been the upbuilding of the Church of Christ. That she has accomplished so much in her life is due, next to the favor of God, to the great gifts with which she has been endowed. She is a worthy daughter of her great father. Her long and intimate friendship with the leaders of the Church past and present is founded on her sympathy and tact, together with a gift for friendly companionship with men and women, of all ages and degrees, has given her a liberal religious education; she was an intimate friend of Susan B. Anthony, Clara Barton, Anna Howard Shaw, Ida Husted Harper, Mme. Lydia Von F. Mountford, Lady Aberdeen and May Wright Sewell. She has been
NEW PRESIDENT AND GENERAL BOARD — 389
entertained in the homes of all of these as an honored guest and co-worker. Her correspondence with the great women of the world has been and is voluminous. Above all Mrs. Gates is a true Latter-day Saint. Teach her the needs and requirements of the Church and she will make any sacrifice to do her duty and help carry on the great Latter-day work to which she is committed.
MRS. JEANETTE ACORD HYDE By Louetta Brown
The twelfth of December marks the birth anniversary of one of Utah's most esteemed and illustrious women, Mrs. Jeanette Acord Hyde. Mrs. Hyde received her education in the district schools of the state, the Brigham Young University, and the University of Utah.
Jeanette Acord married Joseph Smith Hyde, a son of Orson Hyde, and of this marriage there have been born five children, three sons and two daughters whose names are as follows: Jay, Orson, Romania, Golda and Frank. These children have all had the advantage of high school and college education.
Mrs. Hyde began her official activities as an officer in the Y. L. M. I. A. Of the 22nd ward, Salt Lake stake, where she efficiently and patiently served for nineteen years, during which time she was also an active member of the social welfare committee, under the direction of Mrs. S. O. B. Cummings, one of Salt Lake's leading women in social uplift. During President Grover Cleveland's administration Mrs. Cummings and Mrs. Hyde were instrumental in organizing and maintaining soup-houses for supplying the poor people of Salt Lake City with food. From this time on Mrs. Hyde has been active in both civic and Church affairs. For two years she was a member of the Y. L. M. I. A. Board, Liberty stake, and prior to the organization of the Bee Hive girls of the Y. L. M. I. A., was associated with Mrs, Hugh J. Cannon, first counselor to Mrs, Emily B. Higgs, then the president of the Y. L. M. I. A. Of Liberty stake, in the establishment of Camp Glen at the mouth of Cottonwood Canyon. Camp Glen was provided for a recreation and pleasure resort, that girls of meager means might have a suitable and comfortable place to spend their summer vacations. Mrs. Hyde is especially well known among the young girls of Liberty stake as a most congenial and desirable companion and chaperon. Her youthful and cordial manner makes her be-
390 — RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
loved by all the young people. Among the people of her neighborhood she is known for her motherly qualities and generous sympathies, and is often called upon to serve as the neighborhood nurse, frequently going by day and by night to relieve the suffering, the afflicted and the dying, affectionately attending also to the proper care and clothing of the dead.
Mrs. Hyde was called and set apart by the late President Joseph F. Smith to serve as a member of the General Board of the Relief Society in March, 1912. Since 1913 she has served as the business manager of the Relief Society Magazine, which position, under the reorganization of the General Board of the Relief Society, she still holds. During the world war she was a member of the City and State Council of Defense, a member of the Liberty Loan Committee, and was chairman of the Conservation Committee under the Honorable Herbert Hoover. During the summer of 1917, she directed the signing of 7,500 food cards of the women of the State of Utah with such dispatch that they were the first food cards to reach government headquarters at Washington. During the influenza epidemic, Mrs. Hyde supervised the making of 10,000 masks, and, at the opening of the Judge-Mercy emergency hospital in this city, aided in the care of influenza patients. She was placed in charge of the distribution of clean linen and visited the hospital daily in discharge of this duty. When the "flu" had gone the rounds and her services were not required by others, she contracted the disease, from the effects of which she has not yet entirely recovered. She has assisted in the care of many mothers during the crucial time of the birth of their children, and upon a number of occasions was the only available help in bringing the children into the world.
Notwithstanding Mrs. Hyde's many activities as a civic and social worker, she has in no way neglected her duty as wife and mother. In addition to the family responsibility, her efficiency and devotion to her domestic duties enabled her to win the National prize for the best war garden and for the canning of fruits and vegetables for which she holds a United States certificate. She also has received prizes for the best bread, pastry and salads.
Mrs. Hyde was among the prominent citizens of the State who were instrumental in the organization of the Civic Center, where she has served and is now serving as an officer and director of this worthy organization, being the third vice president and chairman of the Economic Department. Mrs, Hyde has always been an active political worker, being chosen as delegate at large to represent the State of Utah at the Chicago convention which nominated the Honorable Warren G.
NEW PRESIDENT AND GENERAL BOARD — 391
Harding for President of the United States. She is a member of the Republican National Executive Committee, being one of the first women upon whom this honor has been conferred, and in this capacity she with her associates, under the direction of President Harding, has charge of the executive work involving the interests of the Republican women of the United States. During her recent visit to Washington she was entertained at luncheon in the White House by President and Mrs. Warren G. Harding. She is executive member of Red Cross chapter of Salt Lake county, having occupied that position since 1917; also member of Social Welfare Committee. She also is now appointed to the Board of Regents of the University of Utah.
When women are known for what they are and for what they have accomplished, Jeanette A. Hyde will have no occasion to regret her accomplishments or the high esteem in which her friends hold her.
MISS SARAH M. MCLELLAND
Sister McLelland was born of sturdy Scotch-Irish parentage; her parents were Thomas and Elizabeth M. McLelland, who received the gospel in Scotland, in 1841, and, after faithful service in the Church in their native land, emigrated to America on their wedding day, in 1844, in order to realize a long cherished desire to meet the prophet of the nineteenth century, Joseph Smith, who had received such a wonderful vision of the Father and the Son. Brother McLelland assisted in the completion of the Nauvoo temple as a stonecutter, and afterwards passed through all of the hardships of the expulsion from that place, finally arriving in Salt Lake, in 1848, where he also assisted in the building of the Salt Lake temple. After arriving in Zion, Brother and Sister McLelland continued active in service, the former as bishop, and the latter as president of the Relief Society. Following the splendid example of her parents, Sister Sarah M. McLelland, naturally spiritual in her nature, has spent all her life in active service in the Church. Commencing her work of preparation early in life by attending the school of Franklin D. Richards and later that of Dr. Karl G. Maeser, she began her active work as a teacher in the first Farmers ward Sunday school, in 1876. Since then she has served faithfully in the following capacities with such marked ability and devotion to duty that she has left the impress of her splendid personality in the hearts of many of the young men and women of Zion:
392 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Ten years as counselor and five years as class leader in the Y. L. M. I. A.; four years as a stake board member, and a counselor to the Granite stake president in the Y. L. M. I. A. AND 1909 and 1910, she filled a mission to the Central states, and in 1914 completed the special course of the Relief Society in Red Cross work; six years as teacher, first in the junior and later in the senior theological class of Farmers ward Sunday school, fitted her to assist in the Teacher-Training class in that ward; in addition to the exacting Sunday school work, Sister McLelland has for the past ten years been active as a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, frequently visiting in this capacity all parts of the inter-mountain country. Notwithstanding her many Church duties, Sister McLelland also faithfully cared for her mother for seventeen years in rearing the family of six small children left motherless by the death of her twin brother's wife. She holds a life membership in the Daughters of the Pioneers and the Genealogical Society of Utah. All of Sister McLelland's long and faithful service in the Church of Jesus Christ has been characterized by willingness to work, cheerfulness in the performance of onerous duty, keenness of insight into human nature, tolerance for the differing opinion of others, and an intense spirituality which recognized in every erring soul a child of God whose heart could be reached only through loving kindness and sympathy.
SKETCH OF LILLIAN CAMERON
Miss Lillian Cameron is the daughter of David and Sarah A. Childs Cameron. She is of the third generation in the Church on her father's, and the fourth on her mother's side. Her father was born in Scotland and her mother in England. She was born in Salt Lake City. She has been a teacher in the Sunday schools, in all the grades, and in the Y. L. M. I. A., having acted as first and second counselor in the Eleventh ward Mutual. She was employed in the Historian office in 1908, and in 1909 in the Genealogical office. Her best public work, however, has been done in the office of the Genealogical Society of Utah where she is assistant librarian and in charge of the research and recording department. By years of close study and practice of the intricacies of genealogical work she has become an expert, and one of the best informed in the Church along these lines. As such her services to the Genealogical Society and, through it, to the Church, is of great value.
NEW PRESIDENT AND GENERAL BOARD — 393
She has acted as stake chairman of the temple work in the Ensign Stake Board Relief Society, giving splendid satisfaction by her labors. She is naturally refined, intellectual, and her expert knowledge of genealogy, as well as other educational topics, make her an invaluable help to the General Board.
MRS. ANNIE WELLS CANNON
Wherever Mrs. Cannon is known she is loved and respected, and those who know her or know of her comprise a multitude. She was born in this city in 1859, and is the daughter of the late General Daniel H. Wells and Emmeline B. Wells. Her education was obtained at a private school, later University of Utah. In 1880 she was married to Colonel John Q. Cannon. Her home life has been as beautiful as it was busy, and she is the mother of twelve children. No one woman in the nation has a finer or fuller record for practical public service. She was one of the very first exponents and advocates of woman suffrage in the state. She is a charter member of the Utah Woman's Press Club, a member of the Daughters of the Pioneers and of the Daughters of the Revolution. For fifteen years she was associate editor of the Woman's Exponent, and for ten years was a member of the general board of the National Woman's Relief Society and traveled throughout the western states in that capacity. From 1915 to 1919 she was president of the Daughters of the Pioneers. In all these years she has never shirked a duty. A commentary of Mrs. Cannon's life of public service would not be complete without mentioning her splendid record in the 1913 session of the state legislature. She never missed a roll-call during the entire session and a large portion of the social legislation secured by the women of the state was directly due to her own personal efforts. When asked for a statement of her work in this session she modestly replied that she was pleased to have had a small part in the passage of the minimum wage law for women, the dependent mother's pension law, and the law creating the office of a woman deputy in the department which has the supervision of all forms of employments. But we know that Mrs. Cannon played no small part in the enactment of this legislation, and it goes without saying that she deserved re-election.
394 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
She is a charter member of the Utah Woman's Press Club, Daughters of Utah Pioneers, and president of the latter society; 1915-17. President of Pioneer stake Relief Society from March, 1904, until January, 1920 when honorably released to resume work on the General Board having been appointed to that office by President Grant, December, 1919. Was elected president of the Utah War Mothers, in 1917, served during the war and was on the committee for the celebration of the home coming of Utah's soldier boys, also on the committee for the reception of President Woodrow Wilson. During this period the beautiful gold star flags were presented to the state by the War Mothers. Mrs. Cannon was appointed by Herbert Hoover, chairman for Utah for the European Relief Campaign, December 28, 1920 and within six weeks the state had forwarded something over $91,000 to this cause.
MRS. LALENE H. HART.
Mrs. Lalene H. Hart is the daughter of Brigham A. And Mary R. Hendricks. She was born at Lewiston, Cache county, Utah, in 1885. She early began her educational and Church activities. Naturally intellectual she was given the opportunity by her progressive parents to secure an excellent education. She is a graduate of the public schools of Lewiston and of the Brigham Young College, at Logan, specializing in studies which would prepare her as a teacher in household economics. She went East after her graduation and attended the Simmons College at Boston for several terms. On her return she filled the following positions: assistant instructor in the Brigham Young College, teacher in Household Economics in the Night School at Nephi, Utah, and at the Cassia stake Academy, Oakley, Idaho. She was later made head of the Household Economics Department in the Brigham Young College, Logan, Utah. She has been very active in the organizations of the Church and served as teacher in the Sunday school, teacher in Primary, teacher in Y. L. M. I. A. She was a member of the Stake Board Religion Class, in Cache stake. She was President of the Y. L. M. I. A. Of Benson stake, and secretary and counselor in the Relief Society of Richards ward, Granite stake, holding the latter position at the time of this appointment. On June 23, 1915, she was married to President Charles H. Hart, who had lost his wife over two years before. Going into a family of ten children she mothered and raised them with loving
NEW PRESIDENT AND GENERAL BOARD — 395
solicitude. Of all the many traits in her admirable character, perhaps the most predominating ones are: punctuality, efficiency, and fidelity to trust. Naturally care-taking she faces the problems of life with a deep sense of responsibility which does not permit her to neglect or evade any phase of her life work. Sister Hart will be a distinct addition to the new Board.
MRS. LOTTIE ROBINA PAUL BAXTER
Sister Baxter was lifted right out of the Presidency of the Liberty stake Relief Society, to become a member of the General Board of the Relief Society. She was born February 14, 1870, in Salt Lake City, Utah, the daughter of James Paul and Elizabeth Evans. She attended the University of Deseret and later took a special course in literature at the University of Utah. She was baptized when eight years of age, and when nine years old began serving as secretary in the ward Primary Association. In 1887 she was chosen as secretary of the Y. L. M. I. A. Of the Tenth ward, Salt Lake City, which position she held until April 12, 1892, when she was chosen as second counselor to the president of the Y. L. M. I. A. In the Tenth ward. From July 6, 1887, to April 26, 1903, she acted as president of that association, and later served as an aid in the Salt Lake stake Board of Y. L. M. I, A. When the Salt Lake stake was divided into four stakes, in 1904, she was chosen as stake president of the Y. L. M. I. A. In the Liberty stake, which position she held until 1912, and then acted as class teacher for one year in the Tenth ward, Y. L. M. I. A. In 1914, she was chosen second counselor in the Liberty stake Relief Society, and in October, 1915, was set apart as president of the Liberty stake Relief Societies, which position she still holds. In 1896, she married Samuel Emerson Baxter, a widower with six children. Sister Baxter is the mother of four children. She gives her family great credit for the success she has had as a Church worker, for no sacrifice has been too great on their part to have her perform whatever duties were required of her in public life. Sister Baxter is a moving speaker, a great organizer, and she leaves a ward and stake record of wide usefulness unsurpassed, to enter upon her higher sphere of action. She is a welcome addition to the General Board. Her familiarity with every detail of Relief Society work and her insight into all Relief Society problems assures the wide sphere of her future activities.
396 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD
Utah county has given many leading men and women to the service of the State and the Church, and among the young women who have been noted for superior attainments is Julia Alleman Child. She was born in Springville, September 8, 1873, and is the daughter of Benjamin Alleman and Sariah Jane Starr Alleman. Both parents were of pioneer families, her father having come to Utah in 1852 and her mother in 1850. If there is a place in Utah which develops character more sturdily than Utah county it is Dixie. Julia's grandfather, Edward Starr was called to help settle St. George, and moved there with his family in the early 60's. Julia attended the Brigham Young University, at Provo, and after graduation taught school in Springville for a number of years. She was married to George N. Child, our well known city superintendent of schools, June 3, and she is the mother of three children, two boys and a girl. In Church activities, she has served in M. I. A. Work as counselor in the Second ward of Springville, as teacher, and later, as counselor in the LeGrand ward, Salt Lake City. She has served on the Liberty stake Board, under Sister Emily Higgs, and during the past years has been counselor to Mrs. Josephine Folsom on the Liberty stake Board. Sister Child comes to her new responsibilities qualified through training and temperament to give good and faithful service.
MRS. CORA L. BENNION
Mrs. Cora L. Bennion comes of the best Utah pioneer inheritance. She is the daughter of Joseph S. And Emma Bennion Lindsay, and is the grand daughter of Bishop Samuel Bennion, the famous pioneer of 1847. Sister Bennion was born December 9, 1874, at Taylorsville, Salt Lake county. She came up through the public schools of Taylorsville to the Latter-day Saints College and then was a student of the University of Utah. She taught school one year at Taylorsville, but returned to the University for another year of study. In the following year she was married, at the age of twenty-three, to Dean Milton Bennion. She spent the summer immediately following her marriage at the University of Chicago, the school year of 1912-13 was spent at Madison, Wisconsin, with her family, who were in attendance at the University of
NEW PRESIDENT. AND GENERAL BOARD — 397
Wisconsin and the public schools of Madison. She served one year as president of the University of Utah Faculty Women's Club. For several years past she has been secretary and organist of the Relief Society of Forest Dale ward; has also served as a Relief Society teacher in the ward. She is the mother of ten children. Mrs. Bennion is thoroughly qualified, through her kind and generous temperament, her spiritual insight, and thorough training and environment, to serve in the capacity to which she has been called.
MRS, JULIA FARNSWORTH LUND
Mrs. Julia Farnsworth Lund, who is the daughter of our late General Board member, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth, resembles her gifted mother in many essentials. Her beauty and gifts made her a general favorite during her triumphant girlhood. She was born in Beaver City, Utah, December 2, 1874, and her parents were Philo T. And Julia P. M. Farnsworth. She first attended the Beaver stake Academy, in 1889, then went to the Brigham Young Academy, in Provo, where she spent three years while Dr. Karl G. Maeser was still actively connected with that University. In 1892 she entered the University of Utah and holds the Degree of A. B. From that school. In the spring of 1893 she attended the Congress of Women in Chicago and represented the young women of Utah there. In 1896 she was made secretary of the Republican State Central Committee. At the meeting of the General Federation of Women's Clubs held in Denver, in the spring of 1898, Julia was made State Chairman of Correspondence for Utah. She was one of the charter members of the Utah State Society of Daughters of the Revolution, and in 1899 represented that Society in Philadelphia. September 20, 1900, she was married to the well known attorney Henry C. Lund, son of President Anthon H. Lund, a graduate of the University of Michigan. She is the mother of seven children, with four sons and two daughters living. Although she has not lost interest in public or Church work since her marriage, she has confined her work largely to journalism. At present she is vice-president of the University of Utah Alumni Association and is instructor in Theology and English in the Latter-day Saints University. Sister Lund therefore represents two of the famous pioneer families of Utah, her grandfather being that stalwart Utah and Beaver statesman of pioneer days, President John R. Murdock,
398 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
while the Farnsworth's side is equally well known; moreover, through her marriage, she represents, in a sense, the beloved family of President Lund and thus unites in herself a wealth of tradition and environment which should and will prepare her for a long and useful career on the General Board of the Relief Society.
MRS. AMY WHIPPLE EVANS
Amy Whipple Evans was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, in 1875, where she has lived all her life, with the exception of educational trips to the western coast and Chicago. Her father, one of the early Utah pioneers, was. A descendant of the Whipple who signed the Declaration of Independence. Her mother, when a little girl, (she was a Gay) walked barefoot all the way from the Missouri to the Valleys. Mrs. Evans received her education at the University of Utah, from which she was graduated in 1894, After receiving her diploma she taught for six years in the Salt Lake public schools, under Superintendents Millspaugh and Cooper. In 1900, she married to John Henry Evans. They have five children, three sons and two daughters. During the last three years she has been an active member of the Granite stake Relief Society Board, having charge of the teacher-training class and being a member also of the stake social committee. Mrs. Evans is a woman of wide and varied interests. She is of a pronounced intellectual type, without losing any of her natural modesty, reserve, and motherly instincts. Entering the University on a scholarship, she there maintained a high standard of excellence in her studies. First in scholarship in her class— the largest up to that time, and composed largely of men—she was chosen valedictorian. She has a strong predilection for science and scientific research, in which she excelled at the University. While teaching in the city schools she was counted among the best primary teachers. In both music and art, which she studied under the best home teachers, she manifested a special aptitude for these subjects that attracted the attention of her instructors, Mr. Harwood always declared that in marrying she sacrificed a career in painting. Some of her work has been exhibited in Utah art institutes and received high commendation for its truth to nature. With a deep insight into life, and abundant originality, and a strong sense of humor, she could also win honors in fiction-writing, had she the necessary leisure. Of great reliability and rare high-mindedness, she should become a valuable member' of the General Board.
NEW PRESIDENT AND GENERAL BOARD — 399
MRS. ETHEL REYNOLDS SMITH
Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith is the wife of. Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, and the daughter of George Reynolds, her mother being Amelia Shofield Reynolds. Ethel was born October 23, 1889. Somewhat fragile in her body her good mind and conscientious devotion to study or to domestic duty often leaves her frail and spent. She was early engaged in Church labors and was working in the historian's office when Elder Smith, w ho was a widower, married her November 2, 1908. Elder Smith's first wife Louise Shurtliff Smith left behind her two little girls, and these children the girl-wife mothered when she assumed the duty of her husband's home and family. Though only thirty-one years of age now, Ethel herself has borne seven children to her husband, three boys and four daughters; and, with the two elder daughters left by the first wife, the nine children fill the home with that laughter and tears, toil and sacrifice that develop the wealth of love and blessing in children. It is to be heped that this saintly example may be followed by the young married people in Zion today. If Sister Smith had no other qualification to fit her for her new position, her willing motherheod would constitute a full measure of preparation. Ethel has been educated, not only in schools, and by life itself, but she has kept her mind active through intellectual association with her student-husband, and through reading, study and service in the auxiliary associations of the Church. In recent years her greatest work has been along Genealogical lines, for she has acted upon the Salt Lake Stake Board for a number of years where the Genealogical Department was placed under her direct charge. Her brilliant mind and the simple eloquence of her appeal makes of all her public activities a leading feature of the stake where she labored. Recently she was chosen by Colonel Willard Young as his assistant in the Salt Lake Genealogical work. She will bring to her new duties on the General Board the forces of her quick intellect, her keen understanding of the principles of the gospel, with tempered wisdom garnered from daily life as a faithful wife and a devoted mother.
MRS. BARBARA HOWELL RICHARDS
Barbara Howell Richards was born February 20, 1888, at Wellsville. Cache county, Utah, and is the daughter of former
400 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Congressman Joseph Howell and Mary Maughn Howell; her early education was received in the Public Schools of Cache county; she later attended the Brigham Young College and the Utah Agricultural College at Logan, Utah. She spent about fourteen years in Washington D. C., where she attended the Mt. Vernon Seminary. She was married on September 12, 1912, to Preston D. Richards, who was at the time Assistant Solicitor of the Department of State, of the United States, and is now a practicing lawyer of Salt Lake City, Utah, and a member of the General Board Y. M. M. I. A. They have two daughters. Barbara Howell Richards was for some time President of the Y. L. M. I. A. Of the Twentieth ward in Ensign stake. She is, like some of her associates on the new Board, somewhat apprehensive of her ability to fill the great responsibilities attached to her recent call to office. But her humility and reliance on the Lord is not the least of her qualifications. She is charming, beautiful and gifted, a worthy descendant and representative of two locally famous pioneer families.
MRS. ROSANNAH CANNON IRVINE
All of the members of the Relief Society remember with deep affection the life-long service and devotion of our late board member, Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon, wife of the late President George Q. Cannon. They will welcome her only daughter, Mrs. Rosannah Cannon Irvine, who was born and reared in this city and who married the! Well known lawyer Alonzo B. Irvine, in 1898; thev have three children. Rosannah makes a charming mother and is also a devoted and faithful wife. "Zannie,". As she is lovingly known to all -her own and her mother's friends, early began her Church work especially in the Relief Society; she was only fifteen years old when she was made secretary of Farmers ward Relief Society, under the presidency of Sister Emma Woodruff. She has worked in every one of the auxiliary organizations in turn, and has crowned her work in the past six years by acting as a member of the Ensign stake Relief Society Board. Her labors in the literary department were marked by a quick intelligence and sympathetic insight into spiritual values which she has inherited from both parents; but while she has shone in many public circles her home life has been as ideal as human limitations might allow. Sister Irvine will bring to the
NEW PRESIDENT AND GENERAL BOARD — 401
Relief Society Board all the force of her brilliant mind, her wide experience, and her tender solicitude. No gathering could be dull, no meeting could be restless, no problem left vaguely in doubt while Sister Irvine-was present; yet with all her gifts she possesses the courteous dignity of her father and the magnetism of her distinguished mother.
OUR MUSIC FORCES
No better work has been done in any of our departments than that accomplished through the musical forces of our General Board. Our efficient choir leader, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, our gifted organist, Miss Edna Coray, and our no less devoted and excellent Relief Society choir members, have given their best and finest powers to reach and maintain the high standard of excellence which makes our choir locally famous. Both leaders and members unite in presenting beautiful music, beautifully rendered; and when one looks into the faces of the singers, many of them care-burdened mothers and grandmothers, the wonder grows at the single-hearted devotion which marks all their efforts. It is a true saying that "Music is its own best reward;" yet it is also true that these saintly singers realize in their labors the divine truth of the words of the Lord to Emma Smith, when she was instructed to prepare a hymn book: "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." Doctrine and Covenants, 25:12.
MRS, LIZZIE THOMAS EDWARD Chorister of the Relief Society Choir By Evan Stephens
Taken all in all, length of service, efficiency; as a vocal soloist, teacher, conductor of ladies' choruses and ward choirs; as a member of our world-famed Tabernacle choir, we are proud to point to "Sister Lizzie," as first and foremost of all our highly talented sisters in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and a worthy example for the talented women of our communities to follow for all time. Born in Wales, but brought to Utah by her parents while a small child, she grew up to develop her talents in Salt Lake City. She early joined her ward choir, where Professor Ebenezer Beesley readily recognized her talents, and encouraged her to develop them. She soon graduated, as it were, into the Tabernacle choir, under the same director, and was not long in attracting attention to the beauty and purity of her voice. However, it was her appearance in a Cantata as "Queen Esther" in the Tabernacle choir, under the direction of Professor George Careless, that gave proof of her superior qualities; still more when she appeared as "Arline" in the opera of the "Bohemian Girl" and as "Martha" in the opera of that name, both under -the direction of Professor Evan Stephens—to whom she gives chief credit both for her advancement, training, and encouraging directions into so many branches of musical service in the Church. Under him she has rendered parts in both solo and chorus work, not only in the tabernacle, and in home music affairs, but in the leading cities of America, from San Francisco on the Pacific, to the Atlantic, and in Washington, where she sang in the White House, as soloist at the program given there by the Tabernacle choir upon their tour to New York. Never in all the years has she stinted or spared her lovely voice in the choir to keep or preserve it for her solo work; and yet so blessed has she been for her liberal service in this and other lines that her voice has never been marred, or in the least injured thereby. Her voice has a bell-like roundness and purity that is indeed rare, and is capable alike of "dramatic" or "coloratura" work. Her finest efforts have been heard in the "Inflammatus" with the choir, and in the highly difficult selection "Polonaise" from the "Mignon." During a visit of Mme. Nordica to Salt Lake so delighted was the eminent cantatrice with Sister Edward's rendition of this her favorite aria that she, Madam Nordica, insisted upon the two being photographed together. The occasions. When her sweet voice has been heard at funerals she could count by thousands; her talented pupils are numerous, and last of all she has organized and trained a real Relief Society chorus, of such excellence as to stand out as a credit to the organization and the Church. This is not easy to do with the older voices. Her best efforts come from the group voices. Only a. Brief period of ten months has she ever spent in study away from her home, and that under Mme. Fosc, of the Zeigfield musical classes in Chicago. Her schooling has been closely connected with home service to and among her own people. Her heart's joy is to contemplate especially her association with Professor Stephens, and the Tabernacle choir events for years, and the numerous side branches of service the Church calls for from this ever-willing ever-faithful Latter-day Saint talented woman. ¢
NEW PRESIDENT AND GENERAL BOARD — 403
MISS EDNA CORAY
For the first three years of the life of our General Organist she romped over the meadows and fields of her father's ranch at the foot of Mt. Nebo; from whose majestic supervision she was, transferred to the Colorado Rockies, while her father Howard K. Coray was helping build the D. & R. G. Railroad., During this wonderful year she explored the picturesque hills by day, listened to camp-fire stories and songs in the evenings, and thrilled at the weird voice of wolf or panther that roamed those same hills by night. Among the earliest settlers in the San Luis Valley, Colorado, Mr. Coray became the first chorister of the Ephraim ward and taught his little daughter the sol-feggio and other elements of music so that at the age of seven Edna would take his tuning fork, and a music book and call a rehearsal of her mimic doll pupils to teach them a new song—one doll being set up in the attitude of playing a make-believe pipe organ of blocks. At eight and a half she was presented by her parents with a parlor organ on which she soon learned to play chord accompaniments that her mother adapted from her guitar book. Then the doll organist was promoted to a position just beside the keys. The first teacher in the valley was Miss Nettie Alphine, a pupil of Professor Orson Pratt, of Salt Lake City. A summer Visitor in the valley, she taught a class on the reed organ during her stay, and the nine-year-old, Edna was an eager disciple. After this term of lessons she began playing for her father's choir, and for the Primary. When between ten and twelve years of age, she was given a piano by her parents, and received instructions for about two years from Professor J. O. Float of New York City and Denver, a student of Listz, who spent two or three summers at Alamosa, a railroad town about twenty miles from Ephraim. At thirteen, Edna was appointed organist of San Luis stake and began teaching organ and piano, driving a pony cart to Manassa and Sanford where her pupils resided. In the spring of 1892, she came to Salt Lake City to reside, continuing musical and general education. She confessed that this move cost her a canoe, three saddle horses, and her pet ambition to win the ladies' horse race at the county fair—a sacrifice compensated in part by opportunities to study pipe organ with the late Professor Joseph J. Daynes for about three years. At
404 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
eighteen she was his unofficial assistant at the tabernacle, and in that capacity accompanied the Tabernacle choir, under Professor Evan Stephens, upon a trip to California, also to Denver. On the latter occasion she was also accompanying Mme, Amanda Swenson's prize-winning ladies chorus of forty selected voices from the Tabernacle choir. In the meantime Edna was pursuing a college course, at the University of Utah, where she took her A. B. In a line of study intended to prepare her for literary work, toward which she always had a leaning, second only to that for music. In addition to pipe organ, she continued study of piano and harmony with Professor Daynes and Arthur Shepherd, amplifying this work later by completing courses in normal piano, organ, harmony and composition with the Siegel-Myers correspondence school of music at Chicago. She also completed Dr. J. Berg Esennein's course in short-story writing, given by the home correspondence school, of Springfield, Massachusetts and has contributed stories and verse to local Church magazines. After Professor Daynes' resignation, as Tabernacle organist, his pupil-assistant studied organ with the late Professor Thomas Radcliffe at the First Congregational church and remained under his instruction until his death, about three years later. When the new Salt Lake stake was organized she was appointed stake organist which position she held simultaneously with those of organist of the 16th ward and of the General Roard of the Relief Society, which latter position she still holds. From the age of ten up to the present, Miss Coray has continuously served her Church as organist, or piano accompanist, and has used her talents exclusively under the auspices of the L. D. S. Church, in accordance with her parents' ideals; and she says that if she were to adopt a personal slogan it would be the advice once given her by her beloved master, Professor Radcliffe: "If you regard your music as a part of your worship of the Almighty, then the best you have is none too good for such service." Miss Coray is an artist, musician, and possesses fine literary powers which lack only a certain self-confidence for complete development. She with Mrs. Edward are distinct additions to the conferences of our Society and a great benefit and blessing in the position they occupy.
Out of the World By Milton G. Babcock (Continued )
Several weeks passed pleasantly by, during a great part of which time Walter enjoyed the companionship of Louis Guiles. At every opportunity he listened to the gospel, as it fell from the lips of his friend. One of the first things Louis told him was regarding the use of tobacco and strong drinks: "You see, Walt," he explained, "I used to smoke, and to drink tea and coffee myself. So did dad, only he used to drink beer, too. Well, these 'Mormon' elders came to our house one day and had quite a talk with mother. She treated them pretty mean at first, but they got to talkin' on the gospel. Dad was sick at the time, with stomach trouble, and the doctor couldn't seem to do anythin' for him. The missionaries happened to tell mother about the gift of healin' and that in their Church they healed the sick, and she asked if they wouldn't lay hands on dad and heal' him. They said they would be glad to do it if the family showed enough faith, and dad himself was willin'. They went up and _ talked with him and, of course, he was willin' to try most anythin' to take away his awful pains. The elders said for the whole family to fast the next day, Sunday, and they would come in the evenin' and administer to him. "Well, to make a long story short, they came and prayed over Dad and anointed him with oil. When they left I went out with them for the evenin'. We hadn't been gone long when Florence and mother, who were in the kitchen, heard a noise on the stairs like someone jumpin'. Florence started through the dinin' room and saw Dad come jumpin' and runnin' down the stairs. 'My soul, ma, Pa's well!" she hollered, and with that she fainted dead away. Sure enough, Dad was well, and when the elders came and talked to him about what they called the 'Word of Wisdom,' which was agin tobacco and liquor, as well as tea and coffee, Dad swallowed the whole thing—hook, line and sinker —and up and told them he was never goin' to chew again or touch another drop! And he hasn't, either. "You see, Walt, the Prophet Joseph Smith got a revelation called the Word of Wisdom when the Church was first started. No one then believed that whiskey and tobacco, and so on, were
406 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
bad for you. Now, of course, the doctors say they are, but that simply backs. Up the Word of Wisdom." One day in early October, Walter was informed by his superior that they wished to transfer him to the Hudson View mill, eighteen miles away. They stated that it was the largest mill in the concern and that-his opportunities for advancement would be greater than in his present position. Walter heard the news with dismay at first, at the thought of leaving his new-found friends and his uncle's home where he was getting along so well. He had been careful to accede to Elizabeth's wish not to mention the "Mormons" and so had kept peace with her. However, he could do little else than go to the new position, and the following Sunday found him at the Guiles' home attending his last meeting for some time. It was the first Sunday in the month—Fast Sunday among the "Mormons"—and Walter listened with rapt attention to the humble, sincere testimonies that were borne in the meeting—not the irresponsible and excitable type, but rather expressing a firm conviction as to the truthfulness of the gospel, as promulgated by Joseph Smith, and a desire to live true and steadfast to its teachings. Walter's mind went back to the time he bore his first and only testimony. It happened at an Epworth League meeting in the Methodist church, in Green Island. He had requested that "Ashamed of Jesus" be sung. After the song, he arose to his feet, wondering at his own audacity, and bore witness: "I am not ashamed of Jesus, and hope I will never do anything to make him ashamed of me." Now, in this "Mormon" meeting, a spirit of testimony seized hold of him for the second time in his life! A chill passed down his spine, and he felt sure that all in the room could hear the - thumping of his urging heart. A moment of solemn quietness came, and, unashamed, he arose and bore fervent testimony that he had found nothing wrong with "Mormonism," so far as he had studied. He appreciated the fact that during the time he had known them, not one had asked him to join the Church, but instead had left the matter entirely to his own judgment— simply asking him to read, listen, and investigate. He declared that in the Protestant churches the contrary was the practice. He had asked his heavenly Father whether this "Mormonism" was true, and he could bear testimony that the Lord was blessing him with knowledge along this line. He sat down, and one of the elders immediately arose and commented upon the fact that they, as missionaries, were not out to make converts in the sense of making a "record," but rather that they felt they had been warned themselves and desired to OUT OF THE WORLD ~ 407 warn their neighbors. When the elder finished, Walter became possessed with a burning desire to rise to his feet again, which ' he did.: "My friends," he said, "tomorrow morning I leave for Hudson View where my employers have sent me. I feel as if I am leaving very dear friends, people whom I have known all my life rather than a month or so. I ask you to pray that the Lord will bless me with light and knowledge, so that, if this gospel is true, I will accept it. I just wanted—to add this to what I said before," he concluded brokenly, springs of sadness at the parting welling up in his eyes.. The next morning Walter left on the stage over the mountain for Hudson View. Before leaving, he wrote his mother what he was doing, asking that, if he purchased enough furniture to furnish a few rooms, would she come to Hudson View and keep house for him. By nightfall the stage drew up before the office of the Adirondack Paper Company, at Hudson View. Walter introduced himself to the chief clerk, Mr. Bryan—a typical Irishman, who introduced Walter to others in the office and then piloted him to Mrs. Winn's boarding house. She had a room for Walter; and that night he slept soundly despite the tendency of his mind to wander back over his day's journey, back to Glens Falls, and, strangely enough, back to Green Island—perhaps it was because he expected a letter from his mother, or, was it because he had, when unpacking his suitcase, accidently come across certain faded sweet peas projecting beyond the leaves of his Bible where they Had been pressed a half year before? In a short time Walter became thoroughly accustomed to his new duties and enjoyed the companionship of his fellow employees. He found in the office, besides himself, Fred Howard, a man about thirty-five years of age; Harry Hampton, about five years younger; George Crader, the son of the Presbyterian minister, in his early twenties; and Mr. Bryan, the chief clerk. These men were located in the main office. In a little room adjoining the one to which Walter had been assigned sat Mr. Penny, an eccentric sort of an individual, with whom Walter found it difficult to get along at times. Walter heard from his mother, and in due time she came to him and they installed themselves in a comfortable home. He found her enjoying good health, and mother and son were glad to resume once more the family abode. However, much to his disappointment, he found her opposed to "Mormonism," not because she knew anything regarding it, but rather because she didn't! Walter was very careful about letting anyone on the outside 408 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE know that he was studying "Mormonism" as he was loath to put his new job in jeopardy. A change gradually came over him. No longer did he take pleasure and satisfaction in swearing or in listening to questionable jokes. Less and less he found himself smoking, and beer never more touched his lips. Most of his spare time was given up to the reading of "Mormon" literature. He made the acquaintance of his neighbor's family next door, and interested the daughter and son, in their early teens, in the gospel, being careful to keep from their view the word "Mormon." He suggested that they come over to his house the following Sunday and they would hold a little meeting and he would read one of the tracts fo them. His mother agreed to attend, and Walter was very enthusiastic. At least one great good came out of the meeting; he wrote the elders at Glens Falls what he was doing, and, one Friday evening, Elder Wood and Mr. Guiles came over on the stage from Glens Falls. "Thought that so long as you were holding meetings we'd better be coming over,' explained Elder Wood pleasantly. Walter was glad to see them and a pleasant evening was spent. He was pleased to note that his mother took a greater interest in what the others said regarding "Mormonism" than she did when he talked. He realized that the religious circle in which she moved was not in the habit of being taught religion by the young folks. As both of the visitors were older than his mother, he felt that therein lay the secret of their success in holding her attention. Walter understood that the next day, Saturday, Elder Wood and his companion would tract the town, but our coming home that evening he was disappointed to find that they had not done so. Their explanation was that inasmuch as there was so great prejudice against the Latter-day Saints, they had thought it better not to do anything along the line of tracting for the present, and thus avoid causing Walter any trouble. They had, however, spent most of the day in explaining the gospel to his mother, and Walter was grateful when, at the table that evening, she suggested that Elder Wood say grace, or "blessing," as the elders called it. (To be continued) Note: Back numbers of Magazine: The editor will be glad to receive any numbers of 1916 which the readers can spare, especially two numbers each of February, May, July, September, November, and December. Address, Editor, Relief Society Magazine, Room 20 Bishop's Building. Notes from the Field. By Amy Brown Lyman Utah Stake A delightful social was given on April 21 by the Utah stake Relief Society board to their co-worker, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, recently called from her stake work to act as first counselor to Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams in the General Presidency of the Relief Society. Mrs. Knight was presented with a beautiful token of esteem by Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, in behalf of the Board. The evening program began with the singing of, "Oh, ye mountains high," led by Mrs, Arthur Salt. Other musical numbers were rendered during the evening by the Christensen sisters, Misses Virginia and Elaine. An address of welcome was given by Mrs. Inez K. Allen in behalf of the hostess, Mrs. Jesse Knight. An interesting feature of the evening's entertainment was an extemporaneous speaking contest, in which humor and kindly sentiment were freely intermingled. The special subjects and those speaking were as follows: Jennie Knight as a Daughter, President George H. Brimhall; My Missionary Companion, Mrs. Inez K. Allen; The Wooing of a Knight, J. William Knight; My Y. L. M. I. A. President, Mrs. Emma S. Jensen; Jennie as a Daughter-in-law, Mrs. Jesse Knight; The Tricks she Played on a Younger Sister, Mrs. Zina B. Holbrook; How She Came to Pick Her Sweet William, Miss Alice Reynolds; As a Relief Society Member, Mrs. Inez Hodson; Mrs. Knight as a Sister-in-law, Knight Starr Jordan; The Promotion, President T. N. Taylor; Why They Took Our Knight Defense Away, Counselor Louise Y. Robison of the General Board of Relief Society. The judges of the contest, S. P. Eggertsen, J. M. Jensen, and Joseph B. Keeler, awarded the prize for the best effort to J. William Knight. Mrs. Knight responded — happily to the sentiments of appreciation offered, and told of the pleasure she had taken in her past labors. A delicious luncheon was served. Eastern States Mission At the farewell party held on April 30, in Hawthorne Hall, for many years the meeting place of the New York Latter-day Saints, the New York Relief Society was in charge. The president, Mrs. Stella Paul Bradford presided, and the following program was given: Congregational singing, led by Emma Lucy 410 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Gates; Piano Duet, Wayne and Parry Driggs; Piano Solo, Mrs. Mabel Borg Jenkins; Reminiscences of the old hall, by Miss Helen Davis, Emma Lucy Gates, Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, and Mr. Stewart Cohn; Piano Solo, William Peterson, Vocal Solo, W. C. Bradford, Dramatic Reading, Professor Osmond; The Years to Come, sketch, Miss Irene Tolton and Miss Emily Brinton; Vocal Solo, Emma Lucy Gates. At the close of the program a social time followed and refreshments were served. It was a splendid farewell to the old hall which -has so many pleasant. Memories and which is soon to be torn down, to make way for another building. ' Moapa Stake The Overton Relief Society choir recently furnished the singing for the Sacrament service. This energetic little branch owns a city lot with a neat little cottage on it, which has been paid for with funds raised from bazaars and food sales. Northwestern States Mission The Anaconda Relief Society, with Mrs. Camilla M. Spillman, president, recently held a bazaar and dancing party from which they realized $100 for their general fund. European Misston In a letter from Elder Harold Jenson we learn that the Relief Society work in the Birmingham Conference is flourishing and has been the means in several of the branches of keeping the branches themselves together. During the war the Kidderminster Branch was entirely kept alive by the Relief Society women who presided, did the singing and speaking, and visited the Church members. At the present time there are five Relief Society organizations in this conference. The societies are following the regular lesson plans as outlined by the General Board in the Relief Society Magazine. Elder Jenson adds: "The sisters asked me to write this to let you know how greatly they enjoy. Relief Society work, and to express their appreciation for the Relief Society Magazine which not only acts as a guide, but contains a great deal of valuable information. Mrs. Susa Young; Gates and the others associated with her in editing this publication would have just cause to know their labors were not in vain if they could but see the way "this literary gem" enables the Saints have to progress both spiritually and temporally. The work of Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, and the wenderful way in which the money was raised to aid the starving children of Europe, has also been commented on, and has created great interest." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 411 San Luis Stake Mrs. Johanna M. Harrison, who has served faithfully and' devotedly for a number of years as president of the San Luis stake Relief Society tendered her resignation on the first of April. A testimonial was given by the stake and ward officers in honor of Mrs. Harrison and the retiring board. An interesting program was given and delicious refreshments were served. Each of the retiring officers was presented with a token of appreciation for their untiring service. Mrs. Martha E. Haskell has been chosen president, Mrs. Fannie J. Weirner, first counselor, and Mrs. Laurette Peterson, second counselor. Mrs. Emily J. Dunn is the stake secretary. Garfield Stake The stake president and her counselors have recently made a visit to all of the wards of the stake, except one. To stake officers who are accustomed to making their visit by trolley car, train, or automobile, a visit through the stake would not seem to have been an accomplishment worthy of special mention; but in this case five days were required to make the trip. The officers had to travel over a high range of mountains, and owing to the condition of the roads at this time of year, a part of the journey had to be made in a wagon, through a blinding snow storm and for one whole day, through a very cold blizzard. But they found a splendid spirit of enthusiasm and cooperation in all the wards. They were welcomed so heartily that they felt amply repaid for the hardships they had endured. The one ward yet to be visited is the Boulder ward, which lies to the east, in the midst of one of the most picturesque regions of Utah. The journey there and back will require three days at least, and will have to be made by teams as the road can be called a road only by courtesy. Yet the officers are eagerly looking forward to the trip and they are confident that they shall find there the same welcome and the same spirit of service that they found in the other wards. The eight Relief Society organizations in the Garfield stake are engaged in a contest for two prizes offered by the stake board, one for the greatest increase in membership, the other for the largest attendance of Relief Society women at sacrament meeting. Tintic Stake On Relief Society Anniversary Day, all the wards gave an entertainment, consisting of a pageant depicting the history of the Relief Society from the beginning up to the present time, featuring special music and singing. 412 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Carbon Stake—In Memoriam A great loss has been sustained in the Carbon stake in the passing of the former Relief Society stake president, Mrs. Pauline Pace, which occured early in*the year. Mrs. Pace was born December 2, 1857, and was a real pioneer in several of our communities. She was married to John H. Pace, December 25, 1876, with whom she moved to St. George, just after the completion of the St. George temple. Three years later they were called to assist in the settlement of San Juan county. They passed through many hardships and had a great deal of contention with the Indians, finally settling in Bluff, in 1880. After four years of arduous work in building roads and rude houses and in clearing and breaking up the land, all of which work was greatly hampered by the Indians, they were released and joined the pioneers in Price, Utah, arriving there November 4, 1884. Here, Mrs. Pace again devoted herself to community building, and lending a helping hand in caring for those less fortunte than herself. She served for three years as counselor to President Sarah G. Cox in the Price Relief Society and for two years as president. When the stake was divided, in 1910; she was chosen stake president of the Carbon stake Relief Society, which position she filled faithfully until her failing health, in November, 1920, caused her to obtain a release. The death of Mrs. Pace is' sincerely mourned by her co-workers, who feel the loss of a friend whose fellowship it was an honor and pleasure to have enjoyed. Fremont Stake—In Memoriam Sugar City has been called to mourn the death of one ae its most beloved citizens, and pioneers, Mrs. Elizabeth A. Roberts. Mrs. Roberts was the mother of six children and besides rearing her own family, he has brought up the family of her husband's first wife who died 26 years ago; also four grandchildren who were left motherless. In addition to her home duties she has been a faithful worker in the Church all her life. When the Sugar ward was first organized, in 1904, she was chosen as President of the Relief Society, which office she held until the time of her death. She spent a great deal of time in caring for the sick and needy, and all in all her life was one continual round of service to others. South Davis Stake Under the direction of Mrs. Eugenia Rampton, of Bountiful First ward, twenty bushels of vegetables were collected and brought to Relief Society headquarters, Salt Lake City, to be distributed among families handicapped by unemployment. World Happenings By James H. Anderson Queen Mary of England is the proprietor of a successful antique shop at Windsor, England. Utah's legislature has been increased in membership to 20 senators and 55 representatives. Railway men's wages in most of the states of the Union were reduced 8 to 12 percent in June: At San Diego, Cal., in March, a pig gave birth to 19 piggies, five of which have to be nursed by goats, Women in Germany took up arms and actually fought in May, to repel the Polish invaders of German Silesia. Prince Hiroshito, heir-apparent to the Japanese throne, received a specially cordial welcome in Great Britain and France. The anti-cigarette law of Utah went into effect on June 7, but the bill-board advertising of tobacco was more offensive than ever. In Mexico, ''Mormon" missionaries who are citizens of that country have been able to resume their preaching of the gospel ' there. Turkish atrocities have been resumed in Armenia, a large number of Christians having been massacred in May, along the Black Sea coast. The McCune residence in Salt Lake City, presented to the Church by Mr. And Mrs. McCune, has been set apart as an art gallery and school of music. Chemical warfare by Germany was predicted by French chemists in May, and the destruction of all chemical plants in Germany was advocated. Misses Mary and Ruth Chipman, of American Fork, Utah, won the state championship in high school debating at the University of Utah, on May 14. 414 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mrs. Joseph Fels, widow of a rich Philadelphia orthodox Jew, contributed $600,000 in March, toward the rebuilding of. Jerusalem as a city for the Jews. Pope Benedict issued a letter from Rome in May, urging the factions in Ireland to come together in a peaceful settlement, but up to date the appeal has had little effect. United States marshals in convention in Chicago in March objected to women bailiffs and court officers on the ground that they "ack judgment in times of emergency." Germany accepted the entente allies' reparation terms in May, and agreed to pay $33,750,000,000 indemnity. In addition to this, the war debt of Germany is $40,000,000,000.: Viscountess Rhondda, England's "greatest woman," began a movement. In May for the amelioration of the condition of widows with children and of unmarried mothers in Great Britain. A new liquid poison has been discovered, three drops of which, it is said, would have killed the entire American first army in the battlefield in France, if it could have been used there. Electrical phenomena known as aurora borealis interfered with all electric service in the Northern hemisphere on May 13 and 14, and is regarded by electrical scientists as a forertinner of a hot summer. A score of American Indians were baptized into the "Mormon" Church on April 30, and these with a number previously admitted were organized into a church branch in the 15th ward in Salt Lake City, Utah. Prominent secular newspapers in the United States, showed great unanimity in publishing the editorial 'statement that "the only real hope for peace in the world is conformity to the teachings of Jesus of Nazareth." Sir Alfred Mond, now the virtual head of the Jewish Palestine rehabilitation commission, has announced, in relation to a Jewish temple in Jerusalem, that hereafter he will "devote his energies to building a great edifice on the site of Solomon's temple." WORLD HAPPENINGS. 415: Mary Fulton, well known writer for the London Blight, says the genius of American women is "slave-driving'"' and the "husbands are the slaves." The American comic issues in daily papers seem to have a similar idea. Italian soldiers who had been wounded and maimed in the _ war stormed public offices in Italy in May, and compelled the single women and girls employed there to leave, the soldiers filling their places at work. Mrs. Lloyd George, wife of the British premier, has been making public speeches, and is rated one of the most effective public speakers in Great Britain. Most of her social work is in the interest of public charity. Miss Alice M. Robertson, of Oklahoma, the only woman member of the United States Congress, made her maiden speech in the House on May 17, eulogizing the late Senator Platt of New York for his friendship for the American Indians. The new American cabinet at Washington consists of 3 Presbyterians, 2 Baptists, and 1 each Unitarian, Methodist, Episcopalian, United Presbyterian, and Quaker. The President is a Baptist and the Vice-President a Congregationalist. European nations, with the exception of Great Britain (which is having serious financial trouble), are regarded by leading American financiers as' virtually bankrupt, hence unable to pay the United States the $10,000,000,000 loaned to them. Madame Marie Curie, discoverer of radium as a curative agent, was warmly welcomed in Washington, D. C., on May 20, and was presented with a small phial of radium valued at $100,000. Dr. Samuel H. Allen of this city was, through the courtesy of Senator Smoot, an invited guest at this imposing function, Rosalie Cohen, born blind, and a few years ago pronounced mentally deficient by the school teachers, has graduated at public school No. 127, in Brooklyn, N. Y., the only blind child who ever won a diploma in New York's schools. She ranked 100 percent in all her studies except English, and in that her ranking was 90. She made the graduation dress which she wore. All her school work is typewritten. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Fatleth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS -. - = - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - -: First Counselor MRS. LOUISA YATES ROBISON. - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Susa Young Gates Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter" Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor.. - - - - - - Susa Younc Gates Business Manager -: - - -: Jeanette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VIII. JULY, 1921 - No. 7 OUR PRESIDENT EMERITUS, EMMELINE B. WELLS The last beautiful link between the pioneer past and the modern present snapped in twain when the fluttering hands of our late President were stilled in death and the imperiously tender voice was hushed over the trembling lips, as life and death grappled in the quiet struggle for final supremacy. Out over the Border our great leader went, gentle and unafraid. Bound up in wondrous involutions, she carried with her the detailed history of a sex and of a Church. It is not too much to believe that they will be glad to meet her Over There and listen in solemn conclave to her vivid and truthful report of things and people on this sad and spent old Earth. She bore in her memory-records the mixed triumphs and failures of human strivings and human lapses. Eager they will be, those heavenly ones, to hear her unvarnished story; for the play and interplay of the human will upon human wills is the score which turns fixed and immutable law into palpitating, divine values. And so they will gather about her for earth-news—and what wealth of items she took away! She is gone—our President Emeritus. She who heard the EDITORIAL 417 Prophet's voice, who knew the wives of old Nauvoo, whose memory played like lambent flames upon the scenes and figures of a past which now seems like a millennium ago. For when she spoke, Nauvoo was only around the corner, and the Mansion House was just across the way. You heard them singing English madrigals, and caught the girls down on the boat landing at the Mississippi river bend, to see the infrequent discharge of passengers for that frontier in the wilderness—Nauvoo. She made them live before you—Joseph the Prophet and his Brother Hyrum; now their figures fade into remories like Peter, Paul, and John the Beloved—dear, but very distant! Gone! We knew that we should greatly miss her counsel, her loyal devotion tto the Priesthood, and her wondrous memory— the color of William Law's hair, the uncertain polish of Major John C. Bennett, the beauty of young Emily Partridge, and the truculence of Emma Smith. But we have known her—you and I; what a heritage we have! There will come others out of the great present, and out of the majestic future—women all girt with wisdom and panoplied with talents; but she was the last pioneer, the very last of that great tribe of kingly souls and queenly spirits who waited beside the throne for nigh six thousand years to tabernacle in the flesh that they might be the pillared walls about the altar of the Master's Church, in this last dispensation. There will be others kind and noble—there are our dear successors to her authority, who are standing among us today—but she was the last of that distinguished saintly company about which the Prophet Moses must have dreamed when he described the chosen sons of God in antediluvian days as he did in Genesis: "And there were giants in those days." We shall love and reverence our new leaders the more, because she and they of old taught us how to love and how to reverence! WITH THE GIFT OF AN APRON By a Grand-daughter of President C. W. Penrose Please accept this little gift, For small as it may seem, It carries with it, truest love, Remembrance and esteem. A trifle insignificant,» And yet, a token which Has friendship woven in each thread, And love in every stitch. Ai Guide Lessons for September LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in September) THE LORD'S SUPPER The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is observed by all Christian churches except the Quakers. It is a celebration of the Last Supper eaten by our Lord and Master before he went out to trial and crucifixion. Like all the sacraments and ordinances of the gospel it has been modified and changed by the Christian churches through the apostasy which has crept into the churches and sects. In this lesson we shall indicate only a line of study which should be followed up by those who wish to know concerning the marvelous ordinance so that mothers might teach their children and grandchildren in the home circle, and thus prepare them to understand and appreciate the beauty of the Sacrament. Let students read the story of the introduction of the Feast of the Passover, as it is given in Exodus, chapter 12, and then read from Matthew 26, and John 13. At this last Passover feast, Jesus tried to show his disciples that the annual ceremony of killing the paschal lamb, under the peculiar condition taught by Moses, was a symbolic ceremony which shadowed forth his own sacrifice of the cross; for he was the Paschal Lamb without blemish or fault, the Firstling of the Flock as he was the First Born of his Father's kingdom. When he took the piece of unleavened bread in the ceremony, he told his disciples that afterwards they were to remember that the unleavened bread represented his own broken body; he broke the bread and wine and passed it around to his disciples saying, "Do this in memory of me." Then when he lifted up the cup of wine he told them that, on down the centuries, the wine should typify the shedding of his blood and the bread his broken body as the Redeemer of the world, and he cautioned them to partake of it in memory of him in all future time. The Jews had forgotten the double meaning of, the great Paschal feast, and like the present day Christians had wandered far away from the truth. They confined the Paschal Lamb and the feast to the Passover memorial only. Jesus himself GUIDE LESSONS 419 found it difficult to teach his own disciples just what was meant by this changing of the Passover ceremonies into his supper or a symbolic ceremony; partaken of in remembrance of his sacrifice. A point that should always be remembered in teaching our children is, that it is not only that we please the Savior by partaking of this Sacrament it is also true that we get a blessing when we think of him and renew our covenants at the Sacrament table. He has all glory and power, but he obtained it himself by complying with the laws and ordinances of the gospel. Now he wants us to go through the same schooling as he did that we may acquire the same experience and receive the blessings through obedience to eternal laws. The disciples of the Savior remembered his injunction and although they were persecuted and scattered, after the crucifixion, and especially after the day of Pentecost, his disciples then understood exactly what he meant, and they renamed the ordinance calling it the Lord's Supper instead of the Passover Feast. To be sure the Passover commemorated the passing of the Israelites over the Red Sea, dry shod; but the Paschal Lamb which was offered with it was extremely typical or symbolic of the sacrifice of the Savior himself. Indeed, all the ancient Hebrew ceremonies pointed to the mission of the Savior, and that was fully understood hy Moses and Noah and Adam; but in the ages which followed Moses' day, the Jewish people gradually became indifferent; and, finally, when the Savior came there was only a few who accepted his divine message, as there is only a few that accept the restoration of the gospel which he himself restored in this day to the Prophet Joseph Smith. We would call your attention in this connection to an article which appeared in the Magazine in April, 1919, as the article gives a little side light on the Paschal Feast. The early Christians observed the simple ceremony of blessing the bread and wine and then passing it around to all the congregation just as we do today. It must be remembered that in those oriental countries water was not always pure to drink, since it was kept in cisterns, and sometimes became full of disease germs; and so the people made a light sour wine which they mixed with the water and the accidity cleansed the water or killed the germs in it. After the Christian church fell away from the truth, following the death of all the apostles, changes crept into the ordinances and ceremonies. It was believed that the Lord's Supper had a peculiar efficacy attached to it, and both bodily and spiritual diseases could be cured through partaking of it. Then, as the apostasy grew, they began to surround the ceremonial with mystery and superstition. As early as the second century Ignatius 420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and Justin Martyr advanced the opinion that the mere bread and wine became something higher and more heavenly without, however, ceasing to be bread and wine. This view was combated by Origen, who died 254 A. D, He took a figurative conception of the Sacrament and tried to prevent the people from taking a supernatural view of the Lord's Supper. By the third century the church (which is now called the Catholic church) withdrew the Sacrament from the people permitting only the priests to partake of it. The church claimed that the bread and wine was another sacrifice similar to that offered up in the death of Christ. The ceremonial began to be surrounded with gradually increasing splendor of celebration. Finally, under Gregory the great, 590 A. D., it developed into what is known today as the Mass. Then finally they had a Low Mass and a High Mass. In the Low Mass a single Priest reads the service and in the High Mass the services is chanted or sung by the Priests and Deacons or sub-deacons. The forty-first psalm is sung after an introductory prayer, long extracts from the scriptures are introduced or sung, and extracts from the Nicene Creed is read and responded to by the people. After this the priest's hands are washed and prayer is read by the priest followed by the penitents or candidates retiring from the church. After that there are more prayers and the "Elevation of the Host" or the lifting up of the bread anid wine by the priest is made, and another prayer follows, and still another; then the Host or Sacrament is again lifted up and carried around the church for the people to worship. It is not only worshiped as a symbol and emblem of the Body and Blood of the Savior, it is also believed and taught, as a part of their creed and accepted for centuries, that the bread and wine are, in the act of consecration transformed by the omnipotence of God into the very body and blood of Christ which was once born of Mary, nailed to the cross, and restored from the dead. According to this conception nothing remains of the bread and wine except the outward form, the taste and smell. At the council of Rome, held in 1215 A. D., under Innocent Third, this doctrine which was called "Transubstantiation" was declared to be an article of faith; and it has continued to be so held by the Catholic church to the present day. You can understand, therefore, how it is that the Catholic people bow and kneel in abject worship, when the "Host" (which is the wafers and wine consecrated by the priest) is believed to be the actual flesh and blood of the Savior. With the Reformation of Martin Luther came opposition to this view; some of the reformers insisted that the bread and wine were only symbolic; Zwingli maintained this view, and the Presbyterians, and other Protestant churches, accept this symbolic view. For many centuries, in the Catholic church, the priests GUIDE LESSONS 421 only were allowed to partake of the Sacrament, but in very recent years, in America at least, the laity have been permitted to partake of the Sacrament. Over this bitterly contested point, all down the ages since, there have been furious theological storms. The Episcopal church itself is divided on this matter. The High church, as it is called, maintains what it calls objective mystical presence of the things sacrificed along with the sin; but - the Low church adheres to the symbolic view of the Sacrament. The elaborate and costly ceremonies, however, of both churches, resemble the Catholic ceremonies. It will be well to quote here the opposite views of the two modern representative churches, on this point, as given by their own writers and exponents in What the World Believes: "The Greeks celebrate mass, which consists of a round of ceremonies somewhat similar to those of the Latin mass. The laity, as well as the clergy, however, among the Greeks, take the Sacrament in both hands, and receive from the hands of the priests the consecrated bread and wine in the same spoon, which the Greeks call labis. The laity receive the Sacrament standing at the door of the sanctuary; the men first and then the women. Those who presume to partake of this holy banquet must stand in a modest reverential posture; their eyes must be fixed on the ground, and their heads bowed down, as persons in the act of adoration, and their arms must be crossed. The Greeks follow the example of the Latins, carry the communion to the sick, but with less pomp or grandeur, it being contained in a little box, enclosed in a bag, which the priest bears under his arm. This is a small parcel or portion of the blessed bread, which they also carry to those whose business confines them at home. They take a small portion of consecrated bread, about an inch square, cut it in the form of a cross, and sprinkle it with a little blood (that is, transubstantiated wine) and administer it to the sick, after having moistened it with a little water, or a little wine, and this is their viaticum which they give to sick and dying persons. The following extract describes the Episcopalian form: The Communion is one of the principal Sacraments of the Church of England, for which purpose the altar, for this name is often given by the members of the Church of England to the communion table, ought to have a clean white cloth upon it, and to stand in the body of the church, or in the chancel, where morning and evening prayers are appointed to be said. At all other times the said table is covered with silk, and set in a decent place altar-wise. The priest, standing at the north side of the table, repeats the Lord's prayer, with a collect, then rehearses distinctly the ten commandments; after each, the people kneeling, say, "Lord have mercy on us, and incline our hearts to keep this law." This is followed by a collect for the sovereign, which the priest says standing; the collect of the day, the epistle, and gospel, at which last the people stand, as they do like-wise at the singing or reciting of the Nicene or Constantinopolitan creed, which is done immediately after the gospel. The curate declares unto the people what holidays and fasting days are in the week following 422 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to be observed; and, if occasion be, publishes the banns of matrimony, reads briefs, citations, and excommunications. Then follows the sermon, which being ended, alms are taken for the poor, or church purposes. This is followed by prayers and exhortations; after which, the priest stands up before the table, and having so ordered the bread and wine that he may with the more readiness and decency break the bread before the people, and take the cup into his hands, repeats the prayer of consecration, which begins the third part of the Communion service: "Hear us, O merciful Father, and grant that we, receiving these thy creatures of bread and wine, according to Jesus Christ's holy institution, in remembrance of his death and passion, may be partakers of his most blessed body and blood, who in the same night that he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he break it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, 'Take, eat, this is my body which is given for you; do this in remembrance of me.' Likewise, after supper, he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, 'Drink ye all of this for this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for you, for the remission of sins. Do this as oft as ye shall drink it in remembrance of me.'" The priest first receives the communion in both hands himself, then proceeds to deliver the same to the bishops, priests, and deasons (if any be present); and after that, to the people also in order into their hands, all meekly kneeling. The priest repeats a prayer when he gives the bread, and another when the cup is given to any one. If the consecrated bread or wine be exhausted before all have communicated, the priest is to consecrate more. If, on the contrary, there remains any when all have communicated, the minister returns to the Lord's table, and reverently places upon it what remains of the consecrated elements, covering the same with a clean linen cloth. Here begins the fourth and last part of the communion service. The Lord's prayer is recited by the minister, the people repeating after him every petition; then follows another form of thanksgiving; after which, "Glory be to God on high," is sung, a hymn to which antiquity has given the appelation of angelical. The whole service is concluded by the priest (or bishop, if he be present) dismissing the congregation with a blessing.The Presbyterian form is as follows: 1. The times for celebrating the Lord's Supper are to be determined by the minister and elders. In some portions of the Church it is observed only semi-annually; more generally, however, as often as once in three months; in others, once in two months, and in a few, monthly. 2, The ignorant and scandalous are not admitted, In the Presbyterian church in the United States it is not deemed necessary to protect the tables of the Lord from unworthy communicants by requiring tickets of admission. It is found that very seldom does any one offer to approach without being a regularly acknowledged communicant. 3. Public notice is given of the intention to celebrate the Lord's Supper one Lord's day previous to the administration of the ordinance, and a lecture is delivered on some covenient season in the course of the week, that by preparatory instruction and devotion the church may come in a suitable manner to this holy feast. 4. When the service has been introduced with appropriate devotional exercises, or a sermon, the bishop or pastor shows that this is an ordinance of Christ, by teaching the words of the institution, either from GUIDE LESSONS 423 one of the Evangelists, or from Ist Cor. 11, which, as to him may appear expedient, he may explain and apply. 5. The table on which the elements are placed, being decently covered, the bread in convenient dishes, and the wine in cups, and the communicants orderly and gravely sitting around the table, or in their seats before it, the minister sets the elements apart by prayer and thanksgiving. He then takes the bread and breaks it, in the presence of the people, saying: "Our Lord Jesus Christ, on the same night in which he was betrayed, having taken bread and blessed and broken it, gave it to his disciples; as I, ministering in his name, give this bread to you, saying (while the elders commence the distribution), "Take eat, this is my body which is broken for you, this do in remembrance of me." After having given the bread with due care that none have been neglected, he takes the cup and says: "After the same manner our Savior took the cup, and having given thanks, as hath been done in his name, he gave it to his disciples, saying (while the minister repeats these words he gives the cup to the elders), 'This cup is the New Testament in my blood which is shed for many, for the remission of sins. Drink ye all of it." The pastor and elders may communicate at such times as are convenient. The service is commonly concluded with exhortation and Prayer, and singing a hymn, and pronouncing the apostolical benediction. The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is administered in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints every Sabbath day in the Sunday schools, and in the ward houses of worship. It is given only to those who are in good fellowship, and those who administer it are enjoined, in the Doctrine and Covenants, to be very cautions that only those who are worthy shall partake of it, those who have clean hands and pure hearts, who keep the commandments of God, and who have covenanted in the waters of baptism with him, are eligible to partake of the Sacrament. Read section 20:75-81, Doctrine and Covenants. Compare the wording of the prayer concerning it with the ceremonies we have quoted from the other churches, The Nephites understood and administered this ordinance, (read chapter 5 in the book of Moroni). The Nephites had, of course, observed their Hebrew Passover service and when the Savior came to this continent he taught them the same ceremonies and principles which he had given his disciples in Jerusalem; that is, he taught them to transform this Passover memorial serVice into an ordinance which should commemorate his earthly crucifixion. 7 We learn, therefore, that the law of sacrifice, which was understood and practiced by the Jews, can be remembered by us every Sabbath day when we partake of the Sacrament. Every Latter-day Saint, and especially those who have made covenants in the temple, should go to the house of the Lord on the Sabbath day and partake of these sacred emblems to renew their covenants 424 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and to remember the crucifixion and thus to receive special and wonderful blessings in their own body and spirit. We do not believe in the mysticism and superstition of the Catholic church, in regard to the Sacrament. It is revolting to think of eating the flesh and drinking the blood of any body, much less that of the Savior. Miracles which are performed by our Father in heaven do not take the form of unnecessary displays of magic and witchcraft, in order to impress or appal mortal man. Ali the miracles which the Savior performed, and which are recorded in the scriptures, were done on strictly natural principles. Study them for yourself. At the same time Latter-day Saint mothers should see to it that from the time a child is able to partake of the Sacrament that child should be taught to regard the piece of bread and the sip of water as a holy symbol and as a sacred ordinance, After they are so taught and after we approach that ordinance with the solemn and sacred spirit and thought which it deserves, there will be a reformation in the careless attitude and indifferent approach so often manifested by our people when they partake of the Lord's Supper. Reading or study will result in a tangible reformation on this subject. QUESTIONS 1. What was the Passover Feast? Describe the Paschal Lamb, and how it was killed, and its resemblances to the offering of the Savior's life. (See Students' Help to the Study of the Bible, in any good Bible.) 2. Under what circumstances did the Savior himself administer the Sacrament to his disciples? Describe the customs of the early Christian church. 3. How do the Catholics administer the Sacrament? 4. Have you ever attended a Catholic Mass? If so, describe it; if not, attend one, and then describe it to the class. 5. How do the Episcopalians administer the Sacrament? Attend one of their services and describe it to the class. 6. What do the Protestant churches believe, in regard to the Sacrament? 7. Who was Martin Luther? Who was Justin Martyr? 8. How did the early Catholics differ about the Sacrament? 10. Do you teach your children the solemnity of that ordinance? If not, why not? 11. Discuss the contrast between our observance of the ordinance and that of other churches. GUIDE LESSONS 425 LESSON II Work and Business. (Second Week in September) LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in September) Our last lesson was devoted to "Up, awake, ye defenders of Zion," President Penrose's historical hymn, which we suggested might fittingly be called the battle hymn of Zion. This lesson will be devoted to three hymns, so that we shall not be able to make an exhaustive study of any one of the group, but shall be under the necessity of selecting some of the prominent characteristics of each. We turn first to "School thy feelings,' which is said to have been the favorite hymn of President Francis M. Lyman. It might easily be the favorite hymn of a goodly number of people. It was written in Birmingham, England, in 1860, under the following circumstances: Elder Penrose had labored in that part of the British mission for ten years. In order to make the Church office more attractive and comfortable, he had placed some of his own furniture in it. Later, when it was no longer needed, he moved it back to his home, only to start some of the Saints, given to gossip, telling that the presiding elder had taken furniture belonging to the Church. This stung Elder Penrose to the core, he sorrowed deeply, no doubt feeling it a hard reward after his years of devotion. George Eliot tells us that literature, like the pearl the oyster secretes in its malady, is frequently the offspring of suffering. "School thy feelings" was begotten in pain and mental struggle, and was written by. President Penrose for his own consolation. He had no intention of making it public in the beginning; but, reading it to a friend who found much comfort in it, he finally allowed it to be made public when he discovered that its appeal was universal. The chief merit of the hymn lies no doubt in the ethical messages it embodies. Four ideas are prominent throughout; the first is a clear call for self-control set forth in such phrases as "there is power in the cool, collected mind;" the second warns 426 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE against hasty judgment, and admonishes that we "hear defense before deciding;" the third assures the guiltless that they need have no fears, "for time's a friend to innocence," and lastly we are told that "noblest minds have finest feelings," consequently the greatest care should be taken to guard against a "wilful wound." The author's struggle is apparent throughout; one moment he is seeking to quell the very natural instinct of anger, the next he is thinking that had his accusers known the facts in the case, they would have judged very differently; nevertheless, he has consolation in the fact that time is a friend to innocence, but apparently resolves that because of his own keen suffering he will be most careful of the feelings of others. Conciseness and terseness characterize the lines, which are frequently embellished with very effective figures such as, "passion shatters reason's tower," and, "noblest minds have finest feelings, quivering strings a breath can move, and the gospel's sweet revealings tune them with the key of love." We regret that President Penrose was made to suffer so keenly, but if such things come only through tribulation, then our gain has been so great that we feel deeply how incomplete the hymnology of the Latter-day Saints would be without this soulsearching and comforting hymn. We pass now to the most popular of Elder Penrose's hymns, "O, ye mountains high." This hymn, written in England, in 1854, was born of emotional stress. For ten years, Elder Penrose had confidently looked forward to the time when he should gather with the Saints. He had nearly realized his desire, several times, when something would occur to thwart his plans. At a moment when he felt sure of his release, he was told that he could not yet be spared. Disappointment, coupled with a deep yearning for that Zion which must a little longer be denied him, quickened his imagination and he wrote, "O, ye mountains high," before seeing America. Truly, his imagination had been assisted by descriptions that fell from the lips of the elders, as well as by the photographs they carried to show to persons in distant parts; even so, the writing of this hymn must always be a marvel and a wonder. The hymn came to the author as he walked along an English country road. It made small impression upon the English Saints to whom he read it, as they had no experience to which they might relate it, but whatever of interest it lacked for them has been made up many times by the deep, interest and love felt for it by the Saints in the mountains where it has always been a great favorite. The first stanza, in all probability, makes the largest appeal GUIDE LESSONS. 427 as it combines, in lofty words, a description of the mountains with a feeling of devotion and admiration for Zion and her ideals. Two things come to the fore in this stanza; the concrete particulars that go to make up the natural environment, and the deep-seated longing of the poet to be in Zion. Note how full of anticipation the lines, "Now my own mountain home, unto thee I have come, all my, fond hopes are centered in thee." In the second stanza, there is an admission that the great and the wise of the earth would not see all the beauties of Zion, for they must be seen in part by the eye of the spirit. The third stanza gives promise of Zion rising in divine splendor to become the city set upon a hill whose beauty cannot bo hidden from the rest of the world. The fourth stanza promises deliverance from oppressors, a promise that must have heartened the Saints, as they no doubt felt keenly the persecution of which they were constantly victims. There are persons who occasionally suggest that the language of the third stanza, reading, "On the necks of thy foes thou shalt tread," is severe. We have even heard people express the opinion that this line has no reference to the foes of the Church, but refers to human weakness which each individual must seek to overcome. If we may be permitted tto intrude our own opinion at this point, it is, that we regard these lines, and some others in the poem, as an expression growing out of a period cf bitter persecution of the Saints, and, while we rejoice that such a period is behind us, we do not object to recognizing that it once existed nor that its traces are found in our literature for it is as much the function of literature to embalm the past as it is to bespeak the future. One of the marked beauties of this hymn, from a literary standpoint, is found in the very effective climaxes, at the close of each stanza, carrying forth the emotional message of the hymn, love of Zion. Let us list them so we may better judge their quality. "Now my own mountain home, unto thee I have come, All my fond hopes are centered in thee." "Though thou wert forced to fly to thy chambers on high, Yet we'll share joy and sorrow with thee." "Soon thy towers shall shine with a splendor divine And eternal thy glory shall be." "In thy temples we'll bend, call thy rights we'll defend, And our home shall be ever with thee." President Penrose's most exquisite hymn is perhaps, "Blow 428 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE gently, ye wild winds," sung to the popular air, "Flow gently, sweet Afton." Its author had been in the valleys a very short time when a mission returned him to his native land. He had left his family in destitute circumstances, in Logan, and the memory of winds that had partly demolished a home in Farmington, where he once lived, haunted him, and as a result of great anxiety for his loved ones at home came this very beautiful hymn. It is one of the choice poems of "Mormon" literature, and confirms beyond the possibility of a doubt President Penrose's right to be called a poet. We insert the hymn, and then ask the reader to note the beauty and delicacy of the images that convey the content of the poem. Blow gently, ye wild winds with frost in your breath, That smite the glad stream with the chill hand of death, When shrieking and fierce o'er the mountains ye come, Blow gently, I pray, on my loved ones at home! Thou ice-crowned King Winter, with storms at thy side, Thou white-breasted Snowdrift, the stern monarch's bride, While binding the sunshine and chilling the air, Be gentle in Utah, my loved ones are there! Fell Demon of Pain, with merciless eye, Look not on my dwelling, pass hastily by; Thou wrinkle-browed Want; keep away from my door, That thy shadow may fall on my loved ones no more. Go, rosy-faced Laughter on pinions of light, Take Health, thy companion, to share in thy flight, Diffuse through my rude cot a life-giving bloom, And dimple the cheeks of my loved ones at home, Bright Angel of Gladness, so calm, yet so strong, Sweet Spirit of Hope, as thou glidest along On thy mission of peace to the souls who are tried, O, rest for awhile where my loved ones reside! Bid Fear, Doubt and Sadness forever depart, And dry up the tear-drop that Mem'ry may start. Then point to the time when the wand'rer shall come, And press to his fond heart the loved ones at home! John Ruskin has always been noted for his epithets, a compound adjective most effective in descriptive literature; yet, much as we admire the epithets of John Ruskin, we have equal admiration for their use by President Penrose as found in "Blow gently, ye wild winds." Let us note some of them: ice-crowned King GUIDE LESSONS, 429 Winter, white-breasted Snowdrift, wrinkle-browed Want, rosyfaced Laughter, and yet there are others. As memories of the wind storms in the mountains revive in President Penrose's mind, his thoughts go out in all tenderness to his wife and children as he calls to the wild winds with "frost in your breath" to "be gentle in Utah, my loved ones are there." After he has expressed his fear lest they should be too rudely visited by the winds of heaven, and should know the "fell Demon of Pain and wrinkle-browed Want," he implores the Angel of Gladness and the Spirit of Hope, on their mission of peace, to rest for a while where his loved ones reside. Surely no wife or children in Israel ever received a more beautiful message from their beloved companion and father, abroad, seeking for the salvation of his fellowmen, than that which came to the wife and children of President Penrose. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Under what circumstances was "School thy feelings," written? 2. Prove the statement that "there is power in the cool, collected mind." 3. Why is it necessary that "we hear defense before deciding?" 4. Relate some circumstance that goes to show that "time's a friend to innocence." 5. Prove that "noblest minds have finest feelings." 6. Under what circumstances was "O, ye mountains high" written? 7. Select the concrete particulars in the first stanza that make real the author's description of Zion. 8. Select the passages that bring out the emotional content of the hymn, or, in other words, those passages that show his devotion and love for Zion. 9. Under what circumstances was "Blow gently, ye wild winds" written? 10. Select a group of ten figures of speech in the hymn that appeal to you. 11. Select a group of compound adjectives or epithets that add to the effectiveness of the style. 12. Select a group of lines that indicate Elder Penrose's tender solicitude for his family. 430 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON IV Social Service. (Fourth Week in September) THE PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM The public school system, as now organized, consists of kindergarten schools for children under six years of age, elementary schools of six grades, junior high schools of three grades, senior high schools of three grades, and state colleges, normal schools and universities. These higher institutions provide a variety of professional education for graduates of senior high schools and for special students over eighteen years of age who are able to do some of the work offered by them. At present kindergarten schools are not generally maintained, except in cities. The session is a half day only, and the work is less formal than that provided for older pupils. The elementary 'school is universal. Until recently it consisted of eight grades. In most places, however, the seventh, and eighth grades have been joined with the ninth, and organized as a junior high school, also called in some states an intermediate school. The plan of having one teacher in charge of a room all day and doing all, or nearly all of the teaching given to one group of pupils is now generally confined to the first six grades. In the junior high school teachers are allowed to specialize in some degree through the privilege of teaching the same subject or closely related group of subjects to different classes of pupils, instead of teaching all subjects to one group of pupils. While some subjects, such as English, geography and arithmetic, are required of all pupils, there is opportunity for pupils to choose among other subjects, stich as manual training, modern language and algebra. Thus the school aims to fit more nearly the varying abilities, needs, and ambitions of pupils. The senior high school corresponds to what has been called "the high school," with the first of the four years (ithe ninth grade) taken away. Here all teachers work by departments of study, such as English, mathematics, biological sciences, physical sciences, social sciences. Very little of the work is prescribed for every pupil, only such universally necessary studies as English, citizenship and American government, and something in hygiene and physical education. This does not mean that a pupil should be allowed to elect studies haphazardly. There should be system and purpose in the studies selected by or for each pupil. Election of studies by GUIDE LESSONS 431 high school pupils should be conditioned upon approval of teachers and parents. In Utah recently there has developed a system of year-round supervision of health, vocational and civic activities of pupils between the ages of twelve and eighteen years; also a plan of parttime school education for youths who are excused from regular high school attendance to enter employment. The purpose of this new law is to insure cultivation of good health and moral habits, to eliminate idleness and encourage vocational training— in so far as attainment of these ends is possible. College education refers properly to the four years of study' next above the high school. These years of study may be either general or technical. General studies usually pass under the name of arts or general science; technical studies may be in agriculture, commerce, education, engineering or home economics. In a four year's college course some closely related general studies are taken with the technical work. Schools of law require at least one and schools of medicine at least two years of preliminary college work before entering upon technical studies. In both of these professions three or four years of college study is desirable as a basis for professional study and practice. University education proper is that professional study and research which comes after college education. The major portion of the work of our western state universities is college grade work. Only a few of the great educational institutions in America, such as Harvard, Columbia, and Johns Hopkins, are occupied primarily with real university work. QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES 1. Why are there few kindergarten schools in rural districts?: 2. Are kindergarten schools more necessary in cities than in the country? Why or why not? 3. What are the advantages of shortening the elementary school and creating a junior high school department? 4. Ifa pupil is to study a modern language when should he begin this study? Why? 5. How can it be determined what studies any particular senior high school pupil should take, in addition to those prescribed by the school? 6. What facts should be taken into account in determining what college a youth should enter?; Note: Class teachers should look up the school laws of the state and be prepared to discuss them with the class. Consult the state Board of Education. MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS, LISTEN! The Missing Link of Health WE WILL NOT ACCEPT A CASE, REGARDLESS OF FEE, UNLESS WE CAN CONSCIENTIOUSLY PROMISE CURE OR RELIEF If we agree to accept you as our patient, you may know that it is because having studied your case carefully, we are confident we can help you—if not with a permanent cure, at least with a permanent improvement. Of this our patients are always sure, we will treat them until satisfied. Our motto: A permanently cured and satisfied patient is the best advertisement for Our Natural Curative Methods of Treatment. A WORD ABOUT OUR METHOD OF TREATING We want to lay stress on the fact that we treat all patients personally. All letters are opened by us personally and what our patients say to us in their letters is absolutely sacred. The Head Physician individually replies to each patient; and uses no form letters. His obligations in treating by mail are just as sacred to him as if he sat by your bedside or you were in his private consulting room. Our course is not in any sense of the word a simple case in mere common Physical Culture. It is infinitely more. It is a scientific application of Natural Curative Methods of Treatment to the individual needs and requirements of every ne placing himself or herself in our care for professional treatment and attention. OUR OPINION OF YOUR CASE FREE With a copy of our book, we will send you, also without cost or obligation, a diagnosis blank. If your health is not just what it should be or if you are a chronic invalid, no matter what disease you are troubled with whatsoever, all we ask is that you fill out the diagnosis blank; omit no detail. When you return the diagnosis blank, we will then make a thorough and searching study of vour case. If we can be of any help to you, we will write and tell you. We shall be equally frank if we find that we cannot be of help to you. In others words, we will give you the benefit of our expert medical opinion without any cost or obligation to you. After receiving our reply to your diagnosis blank then you can use your own judgment as to whether you wish to take up our treatment and avail yourself of our professional attention. CORRESPONDENCE TREATMENT Several Governors in the U. S. Have introduced Bills of late to establish correspondence courses to educate young men and women who are forced to work and cannot go to College. All honor to them, say many editors. The Drugless Health Sehool is doing along HEALTH lines, and for the TREATMENT OF DISEASE what the Governors mean to have done along educational lines.) HERE FOLLOWS A SAMPLE: "MY HEART IS FULL OF GRATITUDE AND HAPPINESS EVERY DAY" That is the closing sentence of a letter from a young woman who had had years of disease and many doctors almost from infancy, at great cost, more than $1,000, but with no improvement till she consulted us. She paid us but very little money. No one ever expected to see tnis young yoman CURED. She is now happily married and has a beautiful healthy child. So WHILE THERE'S LIFE there's HOPE, if right treatment can be had. Then think for a moment of how many men, women, boys and giris are right now in the identical same sad, down and out condition, really hopeless condition for want of the right treatment as yet unknown to them just as this young woman found herself in before consulting us by mail. STOMACH ULCERS: WEDDING INSTEAD OF FUNERAL, JUST A SAMPLE Trained Nurse Even Unable to Treat Herself for Stomach Ulcers. She was taken sick and grew worse under medical tratment in hospital. After three weeks there she found no improvement, and went home to die. At this stage the Natural Methods of Healing were applied in her case. She was vomiting everything she tried to eat, vomiting blood, and was a most tortured sufferer, indeed. She had rapidly lost flesh, of course. Under the right: treatment she was soon convalescent, free from pain, eating with pleasure and enjoyment, and some time later was married. In this experience with A REAL DOCTOR she actually learned more about FOOD AND FEEDING, about stomachs and rational treatment, than during all her years of training and nursing under ordinary medical treatment; and the cost was far less than she had paid for hospital and other treatment, all of which was hurrying her to the grave! NATURE CURE SAVED MY LIFE. ANOTHER SAMPLE OF A VERY SICK WOMAN "Three of the best physicians told me I would be compelled to have an operation for APPENDICITIS, Nevertheless I have had no pain or indication of it since following advices in Natural Methods of Healing eight years ago. It has been nothing less than a “Godsend' to me." Hundreds of all kinds of cases of absolutely satisfied and astonished patients could be cited. THE CURE FOR APPENDICITIS, BAD TONSILS AND ADENOIDS is not obtained by eutting them out but by CLEANING them out. You can do this yourself under our positive careful directions by mail. Avoid the pain, trouble, worry, cost and risk of a needless operation. In more than thirty years practice our mother institute of Natural Methods of Healing has not had one single case requiring an operation for appendicitis, nor one recurring—and will absolutely not be necessary if our simple methods are followed. Female troubles of young and old and of every description most successfully treated right at your own home. OUR SPECIALTY: Diseases Beyond Medical Atd Our Specialty. Without medicine or knife.. In fact we solicit cases which doctors cannot cure. Successful Advice By Mail. Taught at your OWN HOME BY MOST PLEASANT AND INTERESTING CORRESPONDENCE EXCLUSIVELY so that you can refer to it at any time in sickness or in health, and you need not go from one doctor and one healing-scheme to another any longer, and time and money illy spent. Write us about any disease, chronic or acute. Disease is only incurable as long as wrong methods are used. SEND NO MONEY But please investigate. We most earnestly invite your investigation of our most successful method. OUR RECORD OF 96% SATISFIED PATRONS IS PROOF OF NATURE'S ABILITY TO RENEW HEALTH IN MEN, WOMEN AND CHILDREN. When writing us be sure to give your correct address. Address: THE DRUGLESS HEALTH INSTITUTE, LOGAN, UTAH. Health By Mail ee mers Lock Box 254 WE HAVE A UNITED STATES SUPREME COURT DECISION IN OUR FAVOR. Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market WILL LAST A LIFE TIME—36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921, "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information - Temple Block Salt Lake City Going to Entertain at Dinner? Let us enter your order and deliver it in a manner that will cause you to also give us your future orders—daily. "DICKINSON'S" The Quality Service Store. CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES. We are in step with the declining Market. W. R. McDONALD, Pres. D. H. CANNON, Mgr. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company — Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling NOTICE The Relief Society Magazine Office is desirous of se- -curing the following Magazines: 4 February numbers of 1916 4 January numbers of 1915 4 May numbers of 1916 4 March numbers of 1915 4 July numbers of 1916 4 April numbers of 1915 4 September numbers of 19164 May numbers of 1915 4 November numbers of 1916 4 October numbers of 1915 4 December numbers of 1916 4 November numbers of 1915 4 March numbers of 1917 4 November numbers of 1917 Will pay 20c per copy for any of the above. Only perfect copies will be accepted. Send to: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah 680 East 2nd South Street. Hyland 60. Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month for the Past Ten Months One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have you seen it? Dependable The Deseret Hews Progressive HTT auneat hE CF The Utah State National Bank The officers ure always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with ther. Officers Hezgr J. Grant, President. Cmartes W. Niztey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following BOUND VOLUMES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of which they will be glad to dispose at the prices quoted below: 12 Vols. Of 1915, Cloth. Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1918, Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols of 1919, Cloth Bound 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919, Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920, Cloth Bound 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920, Leather B'd 3.00 lic Extra for Postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Bound volumes of the Magazine 5 Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. For the "Good old Summer" DELIVERED EVERYWHERE lime P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Phone Was, 3223 et oni E Alvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier. Make appropriate gifts. Watch for Our New 7 2 "Mountaineer Kiddies Allovers wear like leather. Strong Seam Overalls, Auto Suits For Boys, Youths and Men—they don't rip; 4 Uses Roof Garden Chocolate (Sweetened) Cake Icing Bon Bon Dipping Hot Chocolate Eating New, different, delicious—Roof Garden Chocolate is a sweetened chocolate that is at once a dainty confection for eating, a bon bon coating, a rich drinking chocolate and an icing for cake. In any of its four uses, Roof Garden Chocolate requires no butter, no sugar, no eggs and no flavoring. And it's absolutely no trouble. Complete and simple directions are on every package. McDonald's New York Chicago Salt Lake San Francisco A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language—a language understood by everybody. Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"—the kind they make at Lumiere Studio Phone Was. 2861 6 Main St., Salt Lake City ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy. VOLUME VIII AUGUST, 1921 NUMBER L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS The Sign of Quality The Sign of Comfort If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. To any part of the United States. Style Price 1 Special Summer weight........$1.25 24 Unbranded special, light wt. 1.25 15 Bleached spring needle gauze 1.75 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached.... 2.25 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached.. 2.00 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached 2.50 We will prepay all postage Samples submitted upon request. Style Price 90 Cotton, heavy wt. Unbleached 2.50 50 Lisle, gauze wt., bleached... 2.65 107 Merino wool, medium wt..... 3.75 109 Merino wool, heavy weight.... 4.25 65 Mercerized, It. Wt., bleached 3.75 305 Australian wool, It. Wt........ 6.00 1922 Pure Glove Silk... 12.00 We make BATHING SUITS. Ask for what you want—we will fit you. Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 Main St. Salt Lake City BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices Call at our Burial Clothes Department 22 Bishop's Building Prompt attention given all out of town orders TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which — has the non-set automatic stop. $100.00 For this Beauty Take 15 Months to Pay The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop. $100.00  For this Beauty Take 15 Months to Pay Daynes Beebe Music Co 61-3-5 Main St OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTA Have you a ring or pin with the Birthstone for Aug.? - If not, write or call on W. M. McCONAHAY The Reliable Jeweler 64 So. Main St. Phone W. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah Latter-Day Saints Garments 3 E APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. 104 Light Summer Weight (Bleached).........$1.25 111 Light weight, cotton................ 1.50 120 Light weight, bleached.......... 1.65 160 Medium weight, cotton........ 1.75 122 Medium weight, bleached... 190 Heavy weight, cotton............ 2.50 124 Heavy weight, bleach 150 Extra white Mercs 116 Heavy wool, mixed 4.00 2.00 118 Extra heavy wool.................. 5.00 MODEL KNITTING WORKS No. 657 Iverson St. Salt Lake City, Utah MODEL KNITTING WORKS What Do Your Children Read? Guiding children in their reading is a big, vital problem. There are so man_ wholesome, inspiring volumes that you cannot afford to let them read anything trashy or cleap. Co-operate with our Juvenile Department. Let us suggest Books that are high class, Books that meet the personal tastes, adapted to various ages. Write for lists. Deseret Book Company Ladies Tailoring and Dressmaking Alterations reasonable. 715 So. 8th E. Hy. 4152-W. Send your hemstitching, accordeon plaiting, buttons and dry cleaning by parcel post. Quick Service. 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake's Leading Opticians LOUIS A. JAMES and DONALD C. JAMES OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS Globe Optical Company East 2nd South (Walker Bank Bldg.) Salt Lake City, Utah 1 Special Summer weight $1.25 24 Unbranded special, light wt. 1.25 15 Bleached spring needle gauze 1.75 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached... 2.25 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached. 2.00 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached 2.50 . 90 Cotton, heavy wt. Unbleached 2.50 50 Lisle, gauze wt., bleached... 2.65 107 Merino wool, medium wt..... 3.75 109 Merino wool, heavy weight... 4.25 65 Mercerized, It. Wt., bleached 3.75  305 Australian wool, It. Wt........ 6.00 1922 Pure Glove Silk..................12.00 We make BATHING SUITS. Ask for what you want—we will fit you. Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 Main St  Salt Lake City CONTENTS AUGUST, 1921
Mme. Curie in her Laboratory in Paris..................................... Frontispiece Dethroned.....................................................................Bertha A. Kleinman 433 Madame Curie................................................................. 435 Mother's Stories..........................................................Sarah E. Moody 443 Am I Alive?...............................................................C. F. Ursenbach 448 Out of the World.......................................................Walter G. Babcock 449 From Zion to Jerusalem.................................................... 455 Hymn of Praise........................................................Reynold Ahleen 458 Notes from the Field....................................................Amy Brown Lyman 459 The Testing Rod...........................................................Eva Powell 468 World Happenings.....................................................James H. Anderson 469 But One Little Talent......................................................Janey Haefeli 476 Editorial: Girlhood's Dangers................................................ 472 Reaping the Reward or Paying the Price................................... 474 Guide Lessons for October.................................................. 477 Manifestations to Mrs. Mary Hyde Woolf................................Zina Y. Card
ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who patronize us.
BUREAU OF INFORMATION, Temple Block, Salt Lake City, Utah. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY, 305 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DICKINSON'S, 680 East Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DRUGLESS HEALTH INSTITUTE, Logan, Utah. THE DESERET NEWS, Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. GLOBE OPTICAL CO., East Second South, Salt Lake City, Utah. KEELEY'S, Salt Lake City, Utah. LUMIERE STUDIO, Salt Lake City, Utah, 6 Main St. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT, Bishop's Building Salt Lake City. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City, Utah. Z. C. M. I., Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah.
Dethroned By Bertha A. Kleinman
O I was a queen for a gladsome while, With a realm to rule that was mine, all mine, Mid never a liegeman's nay, And I ruled. With a fervor benign and deep, Believing my scepter was mine to keep, Forever and e'en a day.
But he lies over there in his cradle-down, The despot today who besieged my crown, And littled my edicts all, With deference never to ease his claim, Who wrested my all for his own domain, And me for his contrite thrall.
I yield up my tenure with never a sting, I battle henceforth but to serve my king, And sue for his princely peace— His vassal attending, his minstrel I, To croon when he wills it, his lullaby. And sun in his gay caprice.
THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. VIII. AUGUST, 1921 No. 8.
Madame Curie A Great Woman and a Great Event.
We are fortunate in presenting to our readers this month an interview with Dr. Samuel H. Allen, of this city, who was present in Washington, D. C., at the time of the presentation of a gramme of radium to the French discoverer, Madame Curie. Most Americans are familiar with the name of this famous woman, and her husband, who died recently leaving the Madame with the care of their two daughters and the no less great care and responsibility connected with their French laboratory now of world-wide fame. Madame Curie shares with her husband the distinction and the great honor of the discovery of radium.. Since her husband's death she has steadily pursued further investigations and demonstrations as to the application of this rare element to human needs. The radium, as she and other scientists and physicians have found will in minute quantities destroy diseased tissues, and its power of penetration is almost unbelievable. No known substance, not even the human body, is entirely proof against its action and reaction. In the late war it was invaluable and was used extensively for the benefit of wounded soldiers.
Dr. Allen has been spending some time in the Dr. Howard A. Kelly laboratory at Baltimore, investigating the recent methods of using this all powerful curative agency. Dr. Howard A. Kelly himself owns five grammes of radium which is the largest amount possessed by any individual in the world. This amount of radium is worth over a half-million dollars and yet in substance it would not be over a teaspoonful. Dr. Kelly, it might be said in passing, has visited this city and is always liberal and fair to our people. He was present also at this event in the White House. Dr. Allen, as has been said, was in the East at the time of the presentation, and he received from Sena-
436 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tor Smoot a cordial invitation to be one of the guests at the reception. We are happy to know that Utah was so gallantly represented on this occasion. It should be stated here that radium is never by any chance taken as a medicine nor used as a poultice; all advertisements that carry the idea are plain frauds. An amusing instance of this was brought out in the White House reception. One of the physicians present exhibited a pound of so called radium pills which he presented to Madame Curie with the caustic remark that if the advertisement on the box was correct as to the amount of radium necessary to cure the ailments advertised the patient would need to eat four thousand, four hundred and four one-hundred pound barrels of the pills to get the amount of radium advertised on the pill box.
Dr. Allen not only attended the presentation reception in the White House, he was likewise a guest at her reception given later in the National Museum in Washington; and he also went up to the Philadelphia Woman's College, when the president of that famous woman's pioneer medical college conferred the honorary degree of Doctor of Medicine on Madame Curie. It will be recalled that this is the college where Dr. Romania B. Penrose and other Utah women physicians graduated.
Many people ask if Madame Curie, who looks fragile and worn, does not have very poor health. These are the facts about this celebrated woman: When the war broke out the men who were working in the laboratory with her went to the front leaving her and her daughters to manage the laboratory, where she did such marvelous work; she handled the great masses of coal, tons of rock from which the radium is extracted and worked as hard as any miner could work; in addition to this there was the constant menace of the Germans entering Paris while the great carnage among the French soldiers affected her very deeply. These things will enable our readers to understand why she needed a rest and why she is nervous and spent with the events connected with her American trip. It is said: that she gave up all of her radium to be used by the physicians of the French army, and that in doing this the lives of fifty-thousand soldiers were saved.. A great-hearted American woman, Mrs. William Maloney, of New York, who discovered these conditions and found Madame Curie discouraged and almost worn out with her severe labors during the war, determined, through popular subscription, to give a gramme of radium to the famous discoverer, and the splendid reception to Madame Curie in Washington was the result.
MADAME CURIE — 437
We call the attention of our readers to the graphic speech of Pres. Warren G. Harding, part of which, in the opinion of Dr. Allen, will be used in our school books as a tribute to the motherhood of America, second only in importance and literary beauty to the speech of Abraham Lincoln at Gettysburg. It is a chaste. Eloquent tribute to a woman and to women, the like of which has seldom been uttered. The relations of woman's life is therein measured in most accurate and inspired values. Dr. Allen himself calls attention to the emphasis placed upon the mother's calling; and his keen eye measured to the full the modesty of the great woman's simple and plain apparel. Not much behind her example in this respect are the seemly gowns worn by the
From left to right: Mrs, Malony, Mrs. Harding, Mme. Curie, Prest. Harding, Miss Curie, Miss Curie, Mons. Jusserand, Mme. Jusserand. White House in the background. At the extreme right near top of picture, Dr. Allen.
Leading women of the nation who were grouped about her. The following is the story of this wonderful event as related by our well-known physician, Dr. Samuel H. Allen:
"The women of America, through President Warren G. Harding, gave one gramme of radium to Madame Marie Curie on May 20, 1921, at Washington, D. C.,
"The simple but ever memorable ceremony of presenting this generous gift took place in the Gold Room of the White House. It was an exclusive affair and for my invitation, sincere thanks are due to Senator Reed Smoot. The inscription the card said: 'Be present at the White House at 4:00 p. M., sharp.'
"It has been my privilege to see the Pope of Rome, the
438 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
King and Queen of England, and six of our United States Presidents; I have also seen many other noted people in my time—noted generals and admirals; people who have won fame in every line of human endeavor; but I do not remember ever being quite so keenly interested in seeing any other noted person as I was in seeing the woman who, with her husband, discovered radium. Perhaps this is the most wonderful discovery of this wonderful century, or any other century for that matter.
"At 4 p. M., the Gold Room was comfortably filled; at 4:30 all the standing room was taken and there appeared to be about three-hundred people present.
"Ambassador Jusserand of France was an early and prominent guest; other ambassadors and foreign, diplomats were pointed out as they arrived. Members of President Harding's cabinet with their wives, also Mrs. Harding, were on time. Secretaries Hoover and Hughes, Doctor Alexander Graham Bell, Senator Depew, General Sawyer, Mrs. William Maloney, the President's physician and our only woman congressman, Mrs. Robinson of Oklahoma, were easily recognized. Then there were presidents of many state and national women's organizations, physicians, chemists, physicists, and radium workers from all over the United States.
"At 4:45 p. M., a deep silence fell on that noted but noisy gathering as President Harding came in with Madame Curie on his arm and took their places. All eyes were focused on the guest of honor. What a contrast between this plainly dressed little woman and some of the wonderfully gowned ladies in the room. She wore a small, neat, black hat, with lace collarette, a thin shoulder wrap of light material over a plain, high-necked and long-sleeved black dress. Half a century of time and hard work have silvered her hair, made some wrinkles in her kindly face, but have not dimmed her dark flashing eyes. What a rare mortal! An original thinker, a discoverer of miracle-working metal to bless mankind!:
"As soon as the President and Madame Curie were seated, Ambassador Jusserand arose, and with deep emotion in his voice, said, "Mr, President, I have the distinguished honor of presenting to you the discoverer of radium—Madame Curie. [Prolonged applause]. France again wishes to say she sincerely appreciates the generous friendship of America. This occasion testifies in a most eloquent way that the great-hearted women of America are always doing noble and worthy deeds.' (Applause. )
"Mrs. Maloney of New York, the moving spirit in this great and humanitarian presentation, then arose, placed her hand on the box which contained the precious metal and said: 'Mr. Presi-
MADAME CURIE — 439
dent, in behalf of the women of America I present to you this gramme of radium for Madame Curie.' (Applause.)
"President Harding then came forward, saluted the guest of honor and made a brief, but very eloquent presentation speech. Madame Curie was affected, but remained calm while she responded in plain but broken English with a few words, thus accepting this wonderful gift. Pres. Harding said in part:
""On behalf of the American nation,' said Mr. Harding, 'I greet and welcome you to our country, in which you will everywhere find the most cordial possible reception. We welcome you as an adopted daughter of France, our earliest supporter among the great nations. We greet you as a native born daughter of Poland; newest, as it is also among the oldest, of the great nations, and always bound by ties of closest sympathy to our own Republic. In you we see the representative of Poland restored and reinstated to its rightful place, of France valiantly maintained in the high state which has ever been its right. We greet
Prest, Harding and Mme. Curie in Center of Group
440 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
you as foremost among scientists in the age of science, as leader among women in the generation which sees woman come tardily into her own. We greet you as an exemplar of liberty's victories in the generation wherein liberty has won her crown of glory. In doing honor to you we testify anew our pride in the ancient friendships which have bound us to both the country of your adoption, and that of your nativity. It has been your fortune, 'Madame Curie, to accomplish an immortal work for humanity. We bring to you the meed of honor which is due to pre-eminence in science, scholarship, research and humanitarianism, But with it all we bring something more. We lay at your feet the testimony of that love which all the generations of men have been wont to bestow upon the noble woman, the unselfish wife, the devoted mother. If, indeed, these simpler and commoner relations of life could not keep you from great attainments in the realms of science and intellect, it is also true that the zeal, ambition and unswerving purpose of a lofty career. Could not bar you from splendidly doing all the plain but worthy tasks which fall to every woman's lot.'
"The president then led the way to the Blue Room, where he introduced each guest to Madame Curie. This over, the party stepped out on the lawn where the camera artists had their part to perform, when the reception was over.
"Madame Curie sailed for France Saturday, June 25, on the White Star liner Olympic, which also carried the radium which was presented to her in this country.
"The radium, which she carries with her as a gift from the women of America, will be contained in a beautiful mahogany box which is lined with lead and steel, the lead being an inch thick, the steel one and one-half inches thick. Although it is a small box, for the gramme of radium it contains, is only the size of a peanut, the total weight is 130 pounds.
"Directly in the center of the box are several small compartments, formed of lead, and surrounded by steel, each one the right size to admit a small glass tube containing a portion of the radium salts, the form in which the metal is handled for shipment. These compartments are covered with heavy, bell-shaped lead and steel. The lid of the mahogany box is inlaid with a gold plate, marked with the following inscription: 'Presented by the President of the United States on behalf of the women of America to Madame Marie Sklodowska Curie, in recognition of her transcendent service to science and humanity in the discovery of radium. The White House, May 20, 1921.'
"The preparation for shipping the radium in the box was carried out under the direction of W. H. Wadleigh, acting chief of the radium laboratory of the Bureau of Standards. The
MADAME CURIE — 441
shipment is valued at something more than $100,000. An ounce of radium, at the same rate, would be worth $3,120,000. To produce this 'thimbleful' of radium which is going out on the Olympic, five. Hundred tons of carnotite ore were treated, requiring 500 tons of chemicals and 1000 tons of coal in the process. Carnotite is a low grade ore resembling sandstone, combining uranium and vanadium. The presence of radium in the ore was discovered by Madame Curie. The ore is found in this country chiefly in Colorado and Utah.
"Our readers will be interested to know that some very rich carnotite ore is now being mined at the Kearns property near Monticello, Utah. In June of this year, Mr. E. V. Woolley a miner of this city dug up a fossil tree on that property that was so rich in uranium and radium that it brought the company $12,500.00. Mr. Woolley says the richest ore is found in fossil trees and fossil bones that lie near the surface in a soft yellow colored sand stone formation.
"It will be asked: what is radium? It is one of the ninety-four known elements—such as bismuth or barium, gold, silver or tin—discovered in 1898. Radium gives off heat and light all the time and in 1700 years half of its strength is gone. It sounds most miraculous to say, but it is a fire that burns up one-half its substance in 1700 years. You do not give it more fuel in that time and it only loses about one-half of its life and energy.
"It draws its supplies of energy from an hitherto unknown source, and obeys as yet undiscovered laws. There is something sublime about its aloofness from, and its indifference to its external environment. It seems to claim lineage with worlds beyond us, fed with the same unquenchable fires, urged by the same uncontrollable mechanism which keeps the great suns alight in the heavens over endless periods of time.'
"This mysterious metal goes on disintegrating, breaking up, giving off heat and light until it is exhausted in about 4000 years. In breaking up or burning up it gives off three kinds of rays—alpha, beta, and gamma rays. The infinitesimal sparks or rays fly off into space at the rate of 186,000 miles per second; that is, one of these rays travels around the earth seven times in one second. It is these rays that, sometimes used, instead of surgery, in the treatment of a number of pathological conditions—such as cancer, uterine fibroids, uterine hemorrhage, growths about the nose and in the throat, and even on the eyeball itself. It has performed many most wonderful cures, and, as we learn more about it, it is probable that it will prove to be a still greater blessing in the future than it has been in the past. We are trying to learn when it should be used, and when it is
442 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
not proper to use it; because it is a most powerful agent and can do harm as well as good.
"It should be remembered also that there is always a gang of unscrupulous quacks advertising radium pills, radium waters, and radium pads for the cure of all human ills. These are swindles and do not contain a particle of radium.
"The world's supply of radium comes mostly from the carnotite ore which is mined in Colorado and eastern Utah.
"The chemist analyzes all known substances and separates them into their fundamental parts or elements. He finds these parts or elements to be different, the one from the other, and yet, he is unable to convert the one into the other.
"In analyzing a piece of rock, for example, the chemist may find that it contains several elements, such as gold, silver, copper, lead, bismuth sodium, uranium, or radium. New elements are being discovered all the time.
"The elements, copper, gold, lead, sulphur, iron, tin, carbon were discovered before there was any human history written. The names of their wonderful discoverers are always interesting, but they have been lost in the mists of the far off ages before history began. The element platinum was discovered in 1741 by the chemist Wood. Chlorine was discovered in 1774 by Schule. Hydrogen was discovered in 1766 by Cavendish. Oxygen was discovered by Priestley, in 1774. It is the most abundant of all the elements. Oxygen and its compounds forms one half of the earth's crust.
"Silicon from the Latin silex or flint is the most abundant element after oxygen. It forms sandstone, sand and glass. Aluminum, discovered in 1888 by Wohler, is the most abundant of all the metallic elements. It is found in many rocks. Some of the elements are gases, some are solids. Nitrogen was discovered in 1772 by Rutherford. Oxygen and hydrogen are gases. When two atoms of hydrogen and one atom of oxygen unite water is formed.
"Potassium and sodium were discovered by Davy, in 1807. Helium was discovered by Ramsey, in 1895, and radium by Madame Curie and her husband in 1898. Nearly all the ninety or more elements have been discovered since the year 1800. Light is growing in the world, and light is truth, truth is light."
Mother's Stories Sarah E. Moody
About thirty-five years ago, Father and Mother Davis lived in a little village in Utah. At the particular time that my story opens, Mother Davis was washing the supper dishes, and Father Davis had gone out to see that the boys had finished the chores, and when both were finished, father came in and said:
"It is time to call the children in; we must get at our Bible-reading."
Mother Davis peeped into the cradle to see if baby was all right, then went out to the vacant lot where the children of the neighborhood were playing a spirited game of "rounders." Ten-year-old Fred and eight-year-old Harry were so interested in the game that they did not notice their mother. She stood watching the game and gloried in Fred's triumph as he "run the ganders'" and won back the innings for his side. Mother felt the beauty of the night and wondered which was stronger, the twilight or the moonlight. She glanced at the big moon overhead and thought: "What a glorious time to play." She longed to sit down on the grass and enjoy the evening and the play, but duty was duty and she called the boys to her and told them they must come in.
"Oh, please let us stay for one more game," pleaded the boys.
"Very well, I'll watch you play just one more game, then you must come." The game was finally finished, and still the boys were unwilling to leave their play, but mother was firm this time. "Father has been waiting for a long time," she said, "Anyhow, worth-while boys meet duty bravely, as well as play."
Father was a little out of patience that they had waited so long, and when he saw them come in sulky and unwilling, he felt almost disappointed that children seemed to always rebel at the beautiful truths taught in the Scriptures, which were all-in-all to him. Mother lighted the coal oil lamp, and father, with his Bible, took his place at the table and told the children to gather round at once.
"Let's see—it's the fourth chapter of Samuel, isn't it?" asked father as he turned to the place. He read the first paragraph. Then handed the Bible to mother who read the second, Fred read
444 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the third and Harry stumbled through the fourth. Thus it went the rounds until the twenty-two paragraphs were finished. The boy's faces brightened at the thought of being through, but only for a moment.
"Who did Samuel go to battle against, Fred?" asked father.
"I can "t—remember—just now," faltered Fred.
He put the same question to Harry
"I don't know," answered Harry indifferently.
Father asked a number of other questions with about the same result. Again he was disappointed in their lack of interest and he insisted on their reading it over again. "And I want you to pay attention to what you are reading, too," he finished. The chapter was reread, then was followed by a hymn and a long prayer. The play outside had ceased by this time, and there was nothing to do but go to bed.
As the boys reached the top of the stairs with a candle-stick in hand, Harry said, "I despise that old Bible, anyway."
"Sh," said Fred, "I do, too, but we must not let father hear us."
After the children had retired, father and mother had a little talk all by themselves. Father expressed his disappointment, and said, "I cannot understand why the children are so often rebellious at reading the Bible. It is the wish of my life that they grow up with a knowledge of, and faith in, the gospel."
"I feel the same way," said mother, "and I have been wondering if we are getting at it the right way. The children read poorly, and they don't seem to be able to answer the questions at all; perhaps they don't understand it." After talking for some time they decided that one of them would do all the reading. For several evenings afterward they tried this with little better results. Then mother suggested that she do the reading, and father explain each chapter. This seemed a little improvement, but he didn't have a way of putting it into child language, and soon they began to think father was preaching to them.
All through the long summer days father and mother tried every way they could think of, but still they did not feel that their religious training was a success, but they were very persistent, and rain or shine, ill or well, the religious service was carried out. They began to wonder what next they could do to make the Bible more attractive to them, but before they found the remedy, a change came into their home.
After the crops had all been gathered in and. Put on the market, the returns were. So inadequate that Father Davis de-
MOTHER'S STORIES — 445
cided to resort to his old trade of carpenter, and get work in the near-by mining camp for the winter. Though this was only twenty miles distant, father could not come home oftener than once a month, as there was no way to make the trip but to go on horseback or in a wagon. When the time came to go, Mother Davis and the children bade him good-by with regret and with forebodings of loneliness, and Mother Davis was left to work out her problem alone.
The first evening when the chores were finished and supper over, the boys begged to go over to Peterson's, as the Peterson children were going to parch corn and make molasses candy. To the boys' astonishment mother answered, "All right, baby and I will go with you and visit with Mrs. Peterson. It will be too lonely here alone." The change was a rare treat to the boys, and they made the most of it. When they were at home again and the boys were up stairs going to bed, Harry said—"I do believe that mother forgot all about the reading."
"Well let's never remind her of it. I hope she will forget it all the time," answered Fred.
Instead of forgetting, however, mother was thinking unusually hard all evening, and she got a new thought, too. The next evening when reading time came the boys suggested doing many things to divert their mother, but finally when she had finished mixing bread she took baby in her lap and sat down in her favorite rocker before the fire and asked—"How would you like to hear a story, children?"
"Oh, yes; tell us a story!" they all shouted at once, and this is the story Mother Davis told::
Long, long ago when Jesus lived on the earth, a great crowd of people were flocking after him trying to persuade him to be their king. You see, he had been going around among the sick and lame, and blind, and had made so many of them strong and well and happy, that thousands of people thought what a powerful king he would make; but Jesus told them that he could not be their earthly king, because he had come to do God's work, and it kept him busy all the time trying to teach the people how to live so that God would love and bless them.
One day he had talked or preached to the people since early morning, but every time he stopped and went away, the big crowd followed him and gave him no peace until he talked to them again. Some followed him because they were determined to persuade him to be king, some, because they were anxious to see
446 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
him do some more miracles, and others because they loved him and were anxious to learn all they could. I think Jesus did not stop even long enough to eat and drink that day, and in the afternoon he became very tired, and went over to the Sea of Galilee where a boat was lying in the harbor. He got in the boat with some of his disciples and took a seat, and thought he would go across the sea where he was going to preach and heal some more sick people, but when he looked back on the shore, more people than he could count had him to talk a little longer. For him to talk a little longer. As he was not in a hurry to leave, he preached to them from his seat in the boat, and told them stories and parables until it was nearly night, and so the disciples who were with him, started the boat across the sea.
Jesus was so tired that he lay down in the boat and went to sleep. The sea was not large; it was more like our Utah Lake, and the water was calm and the sky was clear when they started but they had not gone far, when great, black, clouds began to roll upward in the sky, and rumbling thunder was heard. The clouds grew blacker, and the thunder roared louder, and the lightning flashed. Soon a terrific wind came up, and dashed the little boat so furiously against the mad waves, that the men could not control it. The storm grew worse and worse, and the waves dashed higher until the boat was full of water, and the men were all wet through. They were afraid that the great waves would dash over the little ship and sink it, and they would all be drowned. The men thought of Jesus and were surprised that he had slept through the awful storm. They came to him and said—
"Master, awake, a great temptest is raging, and we shall all perish!"
Jesus was no doubt surprised to be awakened like this. He did not take time to stretch and yawn, but went to the edge of the boat and looked out at the fierce storm. He looked like a great king and his face was bright with divine power as he calmly stretched his hands over the mad waters and said, "Peace, be still! Peace, be still!" All of a sudden the wind died down, the thunder and lightning stopped and all was calm and beautiful. Jesus looked at his disciples who were trembling still, and asked them why they were so frightened, and if they did not have faith that God would protect them? They looked at Jesus and thought, what a good and mighty man he was, and they felt that they would always follow his teachings and be worthy of his love and protection.
MOTHER'S STORIES — 447
At the close of the story, the children asked questions and discussed the story with much interest, until mother heard them say their prayers and sent them to bed with the promise of another story the next evening. Night after night the children begged for stories and mother was always ready. If any member of the family was ill or too tired, if there was to be a party or game in the neighborhood, or at their own home, the stories were dispensed with. In fact they were never forced on the children but were always sought. The long winter evenings passed by happily and spring came. Father Davis came home again to put in the crops and work on the farm.
A couple of evenings passed, then father felt that they had spent enough time visiting, and that the Bible reading must be resumed, so he called in the children, and as he went to look for the Bible said: "Mother, I hope you haven't neglected reading the Bible with the children while I was away?"
Before she had time to answer, Harry piped out: "We haven't looked at a Bible since you left."
Father gave mother a look of astonishment as he asked, "Is that possible?"
"I am afraid it is," answered mother, "but"—
"I am surprised," interrupted father, "we have made so much sacrifice for the gospel. 'Iwas for that we left our homes and friends in England; 'twas for that we accepted a call to colonize out here and again left our home and friends, 'tis for that we are giving our time and money and our best efforts. It seems a piece of gross neglect to fail to teach the children the Holy Scriptures and to bring them up with a knowledge of the gospel."
"Why father," said Fred, enthusiastically, "we have learned more about the Bible and the love of God this winter than we could have learned in twenty years reading it. You ought to hear the stories mother told us every night. She told us all about 'Joseph Sold into Egypt; 'Daniel in the Lion's Den; 'Moses in the Bullrushes;' 'David and Goliath; 'The three men in the Fiery Furnace;' She told us all about Jesus, and lots of other stories. We don't understand the reading, father, please let us have some more stories."
Father's face wore a look of astonishment for the second time that night. He closed the Bible slowly, looked across the table with a smile and said—"Well, mother, I think you have solved the problem. Will you tell us another story?"
Mother answered—'I wanted the children to grow up with a love for the gospel just as you did, but I saw that they were
448 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
not learning to love it, but were learning to dislike it and when I was left alone with the responsibility, I thought a great deal and prayed a great deal, and decided that we could not force religion into their hearts, but must plant the seeds in a way that they would take root and grow voluntarily. I have been thinking lately, however, that as the boys grow older, they will want to find these stories for themselves and learn to understand them, and that they will really enjoy hearing the very words and language of Christ and the great prophets."
"How would it do to find the stories you have told and have them read, and then let the boys retell them?" suggested father.
"Let me tell about David killing the giant," clamored Harry.
"Joseph sold into Egypt for me," chimed in Fred.
The problems of teaching religion was solved in the Davis home. The boys, and others who came later, grew up with a love for, and of knowledge of, the Bible. Most of them have filled honorable missions, and all. Hold responsible positions in the Church, and they all cherish the wise teachings of their worthy parents.
Am I Alive?
Am I alive? Think soul, e'er you reply. Mayhap the bitter day has come when I Have ceased to keep the faith, but foster doubt, And long since dead e'en though I walk about.
In searching, should I find my heart has love, My life's work tends toward the throne above, That faith in God has banished every doubt, True brotherhood pervades my soul throughout,
While I can see in all, God's handiwork, Apply myself to good and never shirk, While I can feel for others, suffer, strive, Then may my soul live on, for I'm alive.
But if the day shall come, sometime, when I Shall cease to lift my tiny voice on high, When my poor lamp: on earth shall cease to shine, Or I shall labor but for me and mine,
Soothing my darkened conscience, seared and dumb, By giving some poor, hungry soul a crumb, Then Lord, will thou thy final mercy shed, And let me seek my grave, for I am dead. O. F. Ursenbach. Out of the World By Walter G. Babcock. (Continued.) Walter had long desired to visit the paper mill and see its workings from the time the pulpwood was unloaded from the car to the time it came from the machine ready for the printer's ink. He happened to meet Mr. Whitman in the timekeeper's office one day and, after exchanging pleasant recollections of Green Island and its people, mentioned the matter to him. As Mr. Whitman was off shift at three o'clock in the afternoon that week, they made arrangements for a tour of the mill the following day. Walter secured permission from the superintendent, and a few minuttes after the appointed hour he and Mr. Whitman were watching the workmen hand-hooking the short logs from the cars and throwing them onto an endless chain conveyor which carried the wood along to the grinder bins in the case of barked wood, while the unbarked was carried up a slanting conveyor tower and deposited in a huge pile. J "Let's go below now, Walter, to the grinder room. See," Mr. Whitman explained, as they passed into the room, "here a man with a wheelbarrow gets a load from the bin and wheels it over to the grinder. The grinder is just a big stone that turns inside a socket and rubs the wood into shreds, the steam pressure inside the grindin' machine holdin' the log against the stone. Those stones are some heavy, believe me! Now from here the raw pulp goes to the 'beaters' or 'Hollanders' as we call them." "Why they look just like canal boats, Mr. Whitman," exclaimed Walter. "Ves, the trough of the engine does look like a canal boat," he agreed. 'In the middle of the trough there's a paddlelike contraption that turns and beats up the raw pulp like mush. In this machine they put in the sizin', colorin', and other chemicals. They put in about 25 per cent sulphite pulp here, too—I'll show you how that's made later on. From this here Hollander it goes to a storage chest, then to the refiners or 'Jordans.' The 'Jordans' have knives on the inside, that cut and rub the fibres out, makin' *em so they'll felt or blend together. "Now, let's go in here where the machines are. Here is the one I boss. This is the 'wet' end, and the pulp runs 450 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE onto that wire screen there called the 'apron.' This shakes the pulp even, and you'll notice most of the water runs off here." "What are those side straps for, and why does the apron shake sideways?" interrogated Walter. "Those are called the 'deckles' and they are made of rubber. They stop the pulp from slidin' off the sides of the apron. The apron shakes so that some of the fibres will lay cross-ways instead of all followin' the direction of the machine and runnin' all one way. "Now, on papers needin' a water-mark, it is made by what is called the 'dandy-roll.' The name or trade-mark is pressed into the soft pulp from this roll so that the water-mark ls simply a thin spot in the paper when it is finished. "The pulp next goes through the couch and press-rolls where most of the water is squeezed out. You see here—the wet paper is taken up by this blanket or felt and run onto these cylinders or 'driers.' There are sixteen driers above and sixteen below. They're filled with steam that dries the paper as it is carried around them by the felt. Those small rolls between the driers are called the 'smoothin-rolls.' Now this is the 'dry' end of the machine, and that stacks of shiny rolls are the calenders. They make the paper smooth. They are steam-heated and have an awful pressure. Next the paper goes to the reel, and then to the winder where, as you can see, it's trimmed and cut, and wound into rolls weighin' from 600 to 1,000 pounds." "Where does it go from here?" inquired Walter. "Well, you see that fellow pushin' the roll into that room? That's the wrappin' and labelin' room, and when they get through with it there, they load it onto the cars; and you know how many cars the mill ships in a day—an average of fifteen. It only takes a few hours, you see, for a log to turn into paper. Jiminie crickets! There's a break! Now you'll see somethin'." The paper rapidly became clogged between the cylinders and the smoothing-rolls, several machine tenders making frantic efforts to get it again winding properly, twisting and jumping about the machine like so many apes. Hundreds of square feet of the paper were pulled from the machine and pushed into the room, making a pile several times higher. Than a man's head. Despite the great size of the pile, one man would drag it easily. In a few minutes the "break" was controlled and the paper once more ran smoothly. "I guess that's all to see here, Walter," said Mr. Whitman. "The boys have to step lively when the paper breaks that way." "How many men does it take to run a machine, Mr. Whitman?" inquired Walter. OUT OF THE WORLD | 451 "Why there's eight on this one. It turns out paper 108 inches wide at the rate of 400 feet a minute. Now let's go over to the sulphite tower." As they entered the building leading to the tower they were greeted by a deafening noise, which Mr. Whitman explained was caused by the "chipper," This powerful machine took four-foot logs from eight to twelve inches in diameter and cut them up into little pieces—''just like meat," he grinned. "From here the chips go between two iron rolls where they are crushed, ready for the cloth which takes out the sawdust, and dirt and takes them to the boilers, you see there, called the 'cookers, " continued Mr. Whitman. 'Here they are cooked in sulphurous acid, and finally the sulphite pulp goes to the Hollanders that I showed you. It's a heap more expensive process than the ground pulp, but it makes a dandy stock. Well, I guess that's all today," he concluded with a yawn. "My, I'm glad to get out of that noise!" exclaimed Walter, as they came outside. "I'm certainly obliged to you, Mr. Whitman, and hope sometime I may be able to return your kindness." "Well, my boy, you may be in such a shape sooner than you think for—for there's goin' to be trouble soon, I calculate," was the significant answer. "Come and see us as soon as you can; Edith is expecting you," he invited.. Walter lost no further time in calling on the Whitmans. He found them neatly and comfortably housed. Mr. Whitman's lot was somewhat more encouraging than that of most of the men of the town, due to his better job at the mill. Walter found him reading one of the numerous substantial works in the bookcease. Mrs. Whitman was short in stature, dark hair and eyes, and doing the usual hard work of a New York industrial section household; but doing it, so it seemed, with a good-natured and interested spirit. Walter was cordially greeted by the husband and wife— the latter reminding him of their experience on the ferry—and in a few minutes Edith came in, dish towel in hand. "Why, hello, Walter," she welcomed. 'You must excuse my looks, as I am washing dishes." "No apologies, Edith; in fact, I've a good mind to come out and help you. I haven't washed a dish or dried one since | left home." "Well, come ahead, then," she invited mischievously. "Here's an apron, and the towel. Now, mind you wipe them dry, and not leave the plates 'crying,' as mama says!" They exchanged many pleasantries, and eagerly she talked of her efforts in sewing and cooking, describing to him the new 1? 452 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Domestic Science class which had been opened in high school. As her well-shaped hands deftly turned the dishes, her sleeves rolled up revealing her plump, white arms, lashes drooped hiding her keen, twinkling eyes, Walter ventured a prolonged, admiring glance. Edith Whitman was beautiful—of that there was no question. She looked up suddenly—and smiled—her full, red lips and dimples appealing temptingly to Walter, for they were made to kiss. Truly she was his ideal; she could cook, sew, tend house, and, he had no doubt, wisely rear children also. Yes, as Uncle used to say:; "It's of more importance to teach a girl the practical accomplishments of life than to sentence her for four long years to a prison whose barred windows are the mathematics and clanging gates of the dead languages!" Again, "There's as much religion in cooking a steak so it won't taste like shoeleather as there is in going to church on a Sunday!" Here stood a girl who was able to feed both the spiritual and physical natures, and as she revealed these hopes and desires of her pulsing young spirit, Water's heart responded gladly, like the sun to the sun—slowly rising on the distant hilltop and gently spreading its golden blanket over the peaceful landscape. All too soon for Walter the dishes were done and put away and they retired to the parlor for the evening where they discussed, in a reminiscent mood, old friends and old scenes— and old pleasures. When the hour of departure came, reluctantly Walter bade "Good-night" and went his way homeward. The following Sunday, on their way home from church, that cause of so many bitter enmities, as well as of undying friendships—the subject of religion—came up suddenly. "Walter," began Edith moodily, "a friend was telling me that you were studying and defending the religion of the 'Mormons.' Surely, Walter, you are not taking up with such vile doctrines as they teach," said she persuasively, "Edith, I'm sorry if it hurts you—I must admit that I am a student of 'Mormonism,' and as for defending it, all I can say is, that I believe in upholding what the Bible teaches." "Oh, Walter, you don't know how bad I feel to hear you talk that way! You who have been brought up in the good old Episcopal church; who have sung in the choir, and taught in the Sunday school; surely you aren't going to turn traitor now and leave your church—especially for such a false religion as 'Mormonism'! I know more about them than you, for I've read a book here in our library which tells about their wickedness." OUT OF THE WORLD 453 "Well, here's your house; let's go in and I'll look over your book," he suggested, resistantly. Quickly she brought out a large, green-covered book entitled "Mormonism Unveiled." "There, if you'll read that you'll drop 'Mormonism' mighty quick," she proposed. "Was it written by a 'Mormon'?" he asked somewhat sternly. - "Tt was written by a woman who once was lured to join them, but who afterwards escaped and came back East. Her sufferings and trials were something terrible!" "Edith, have you ever read a book written by a real 'Mormon'?" he asked. ' "No, and I never shall,' she retorted indignantly. "Now don't think I'm going to offer you a 'Mormon' book," he declared, "but I will say this: that if you wanted to know what the Catholics believed, you shouldn't go to a Protestant to find out about it. If a friend wanted to know what you believed, you would not consider him a true friend unless he inquired of you and gave you a chance to speak for yourself. I feel the same way about the 'Mormons'—it's only fair to them to read their literature. I don't know as I shall ever become a 'Mormon,' but I must confess that I can never be a true-blue Episcopal again." "What is there so fascinating about 'Mormonism'—the idea of having two wives?" she flashed maliciously. "That is unkind of you, Edith," he protested. "I have always prided myself on having lived a clean life, although God knows I have had many temptations." "You are talking pretty plain, Walter, but I appreeciate your honesty," she acknowledged frankly. "However, this book will explain, better than I can, why I am so opposed to 'Mormonism.' As a true friend, I beg you to read it, as I believe it will save you from ever joining in with the scum of the earth, such as these 'Mormons' are." "Yes, I'll read it, Edith, for I am only looking for the truth. Remember, though, that the scum is the best part of the milk!' said he laconically. He offered his hand in parting, but her clasp was weak, her face impassive; and yet, as he passed out of the door, Walter thought he detected, for an instant, a look fraught with something more than friendly concern. Suddenly, he turned back, fumbling meanwhile in his coat pocket. "Edith, read this, won't you?" he asked appealingly; then continued on his way. She glanced at the title: "The Plan of Salvation." 454 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE XI. The golden rod faded, and the songsters of the air and wildwood soon were southward flown. Orchards and vines yielded their bounties. Water courses which had run low now flooded stronger under the influence of the autumn rains. The hoarfrost appeared and lavishly bestowed upon the provident squirrels its gifts of woodland jewels. The blue haze of pollen clouds vanished, revealing keen against the purple expanse of night the scintillating stars; even the course of the Milky Way, from the horizons of the poles was more clearly marked. The harvest-moon had come and gone, the teeming grain safely garnered against the winter storms, while old and young gathered thankfully at the harvest-homes. All too soon faded nature's flag on the Adirondack foothills—here the green and brown of the slow-changing oak— there the yellow, green, and flaming red of the maple, the wildwood interwined with garlands of gold. For a moment nature sat, serene and unchanging, like old age, waiting in solemn happiness for winter. Then the gentle whispering and murmuring of the evergreens grew to a mighty roar as the Heavenly Laceworker made ready his patterns,; Early Thanksgiving morning the snow came; softly, quietly it fell on a lifeleess earth prepared for its mantle of white, bringing with it a Sabbathical calm. Walter arose with the first flakes, and, as his mother had gone to Green Island to spend the holiday, he decided to apply himself to reading the "Voice of Warning," the last of the tracts which the elders had left him, For several hours he read, and, just as he finished and decided to read next the Book of Mormon, a knock sounded on the door. Hastening to open, he found a lady well past middle age staring quizzically at him.. “Are you Mr. Nelson?" she inquired sharply. "Yes, ma'am; won't you come in?" "No, I won't! And what's more, I've come to tell you that there's too many churches here in this town already, and you've got no business starting up another one with that 'Golden Bible' of yours." "Why, madam, I've got no 'Golden Bible,' and I can assure you that I have no intention to start a church of my own," answered Walter, astonished. "No matter; I just want to warn you, that's all," she retorted testily, flouncing unceremoniously off the steps. "So that's the way they look at the Book of Mormon," he said to himself, "that it's another Bible; and I suppose the 'Golden' comes in on account of the golden plates!" (To Be Continued) ' From Zion to Jerusalem The editor subscribed some months ago to the Palestine W eekly, which is published in the city of Jerusalem, and has received the following letter straight from Jerusalem: Madame: We beg to acknowledge with thanks receipt of five dollars, through the Anglo Palestine Bank, for yearly subscription to the Palestine Weekly, from April 22, 1921, to April 22, 1922. Yours truly, From The Palestine Weekly. On the envelope appears the following superscription on the left hand side, and on the right hand side is the same superscription in Hebrew characters with two Hebrew stamps in the center: Bowid "Dora Hayom" "Palestine Weekly" "Barid El Yaum" Published in Jerusalem. _The letter furnishes a most interesting memento of the work going forward between Zion and Jerusalem. Very many troubles are encountered by the eager Zionists who are inspired, many of them, by zeal, but who lack the substantial foundation of practicality which goes to make up commercial success. There has been considerable trouble between the delegates who came over here from Europe recently with the famous Dr. Epstein in the party, and the American officers of the Zionist organization. From all accounts the European officers object to the straight business methods of the practical Americans who furnish most of the money, and who therefore insist upon proper accounting of funds. It is unfortunate, but to be expected, that there would be trouble brewing among such vast numbers of raw recruits controlled by men who sometimes lack business acumen and sometimes lack unselfish devotion to the cause. However, the work will go on no matter what individuals may fall by the way-side. Dr. Epstein spent the months of May and June visiting cities in Ohio, Michigan, Indiana and Kentucky. The riots which broke out in Jaffa, Palestine, were so serious that martial law was declared, and the following account comes to us from Jerusalem: 456 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE RIOTS IN PALESTINE CONTINUE—MARTIAL LAW DECLARED The Zionist Organization of America has received the following cable from the Zionist Commission of Jerusalem; The May day demonstration which Jewish workingmen held in Jaffa last Sunday and which ended in a massacre of Jews, had been permitted by the local authorities. The demonstration was absolutely peaceful and orderly, although a handful of Communists tried to create disturbances. The Arabs took advantage of the occasion to attack Jews in the streets and to loot Jewish stores. The Arabian masses have been constantly incited by men who are opposed to the British mandate and to a Jewish homeland in Palestine. There is a strong suspicion that last Sunday's massacre was not a chance occurrence, but had been carefully planned and prepared by anti-Jewish Arabs. Arab demonstrants at Ramalah yesterday attempted to interrupt railway traffic between Jerusalem and Jaffa, but their efforts were frustrated by the British troops who hurriedly arrived on the scene, 'Sir Herbert Samuel has appointed a commission to investigate the origin of the riots in Jaffa last week. The Jewish interests are represented by Mr. Harry Sacher, editor of the Palestine Weekly, and Captain Horace Samuel, member of the legal department of the Palestine administration. PROCLAIM MAY 29, 30, AS SHEKEL DAYS Fellow Zionists: After a lapse of nearly eight years since the Vienna Zionist Congress, the 12th Congress is to be convened in the City of Carlsbad, Czecho-Slovakia, on September 4, 1921. It will have. To deal with many important issues bearing on the upbuilding of Palestine and of great concern to the entire Jewish people.: In order to enable every Zionist to vote for delegates to the Congress, let the 29th and 30th days of may, 1921, be set aside as Shekel Days. All Zionist. Districts as well as individual members are hereby requested and instructed to inaugurate a vigorous shekel campaign on those two days among unregistered Zionists and sympathizers with the cause. Only Shekel payers are entitled to vote for delegates to the Congress. DRAFT PROGRAM OF BDTH ANNUAL CONVENTION Opening Session—Sunday, June 5 All sessions will be held at Hotel Cleveland, Cleveland, Ohio. Registration of Delegates, 1. Opening of Convention by President, Judge Julian M. Mack. 2. Addresses of Welcome. P 3. Selection of Credentials Committee. 4. President's message. 5. Memorial for prominent Zionists who died during the past year. 6. Addresses by visitors. 7. Nomination and election officers of Convention. 8. Reading of Communications. 9, Presentation of Annual Reports. 10. Selection of Committee on Committees, FROM ZION TO JERUSALEM 457 11. Consideration of resolutions. 12. Nomination and election of officers. LOUIS CANTOR ACTIVE AS PALESTINE'S SANITARY ENGINEER Water supply, sewerage of towns, drainage of the large swamp areas throughout Palestine, and general sanitation of public buildings, are among the activities which Louis Cantor, recently appointed sanitary engineer for the Government of Palestine, will inaugurate. The position is logical development of the activities of the American Zionists' Medical Unit, whose sanitary engineer, Mr. Cantor, has been during the past two years. Speaking of his work, Mr. Cantor writes: "The Jerusalem drainage for the northwest district consisting of over 5,000 meters of sewer lines with complete disposal works, is now a working reality, House connections are under full swing, and the first section of modern sewerage in Palestine can well be recommended as worthy expenditure by the Zionists towards promoting the sanitary conditions of the land." Mr. Cantor in his new office is held responsible for all sanitation work in Palestine.; IMPORTANT DATES IN HISTORY OF JEWISH CONGRESS First Resolution in favor of such a body to deal with the problems arising out of the war adopted at the extraordinary conference held at Hotel Marseille, Aug. 30, 1914. Formation of first Jewish Congress Committee, August 19, 1915. Preliminary Conference for American Jewish Congress held, in Philadelphia, March 26, 27, 1916. Amalgamation Conference effecting union of all Jewish forces on Congress program, held at Hotel Savoy, New York, December 25, 1916. Election of Delegates to Congress, June 10, 1917.; First Session of the Congress held at Philadelphia December 15- 16-17, 1918, Second session of the Congress to receive report of Commission to Peace Conference, May 30, 1920. A lle of Provisional Organization for Permanent Congress May 5 L A STRIKING EDITORIAL The Boston Transcript writes a beautiful editorial on the removal of an aged Jew, Hymon Simon, of Salem, Massachusetts, to Jerusalem in Palestine. The writer refers to the meaning of the word Salem and says: There is a story in the words themselves. In the first place, why is Salem Salem? Because the Puritan founders of the city proposed to make it the City of Peace. To the Jewish poets, Jerusalem, though the "higher critics" may assign another origin to the name, is "Salem," the City of Peace; and the early Puritans at our Salem, in scornfully rejecting the local "Heathen" name of Naumkeag, dreamed of their city as the American Jerusalem. Bible people, Old Testament people, they continued the Hebrew tradition, as best they could, on New England 458 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Soil. In the Same spirit the townsmen of Boston named Salem Street; and it was Ot strange that the veritable children of Israel, arriving later, should feel quite at home both in Salem and in ut here is one father in Israel at the American Salem (he is well entitled to the name, Hyman Simon js Said to be ninety years old), abandoning the New England Salem for the City of Peace in Palestine, ter centuries of wars and pPression, Jerusalem once more Merits the name of the Abode of Peace; and the American Israelite, born in Poland, Whose feet brought him Sixteen Years ago to Salem, in Massachusetts, fany will, at One moment or another, 80 back to the venerable Hyman Simon, Perhaps the reconstitution of Salem of Judea: will serve to renew in Some measure the sy 8estion of the Old Testament Origin The destiny of Nations Are in thy mighty hand! €n come sore tribulations, € Pray thee, 'by us Stand! In holiness thou dwellest 3 rom thy Celestia] throne Omnipotent, thou rulest thou, Lord, art King alone! Reynold Ahleen Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman PROGRAM OF AUXILIARY GROUP CONVENTIONS FOR 1920 To be held in connection with the regular quarterly conferences. DATES August 6 and 7: Alberta, Boise, Curlew, Raft River, South Sanpete, Summit, Wayne. August 13 and 14: Emery, Juab, Millard, Oneida, Taylor. August 20 and 21: Bannock, Blackfoot, Big Horn, Juarez. Malad, Shelley, South Sevier, Teton. August 27 and 28: Bear Lake, Bingham, Burley, Garfield, Pocatello, Portneuf, Young.. September 3 and 4: Bear River, Idaho, Moapa, Panguitch, Rigby, San Luis, Twin Falls, Uintah. September 10 and 11: Kanab, Lost River, Morgan, San Juan. September 17 and 18: Franklin, Montpelier, North Sanpete, Roosevelt, Star Valley, St. George, Union. U September 24 and 25: Carbon, Deseret, Duchesne, Fremont Parowan, Sevier. Following the October General Conference: Beaver, Benson, Tooele, Wasatch, Snowflake, North Sevier,: Hyrum, Cassia, Woodruff, St. Joseph, Tintic, St. Johns, Maricopa, Yellowstone. Separate conventions are to be held in the following stakes, the dates to be given in a separate program: Alpine, Box Elder, Cache, Cottonwood, Ensign, Granite, Jordan, Liberty, Logan, Nebo, North Davis, North Weber, Ogden, Pioneer, Salt Lake, South Davis, Utah, Weber. Prepared by the Correlation-Social Advisory Committee for the Auxiliary Boards of the Church. INSTRUCTIONS Arrangements for the holding of stake group conventions in sixty-seven stakes during 1921 have been made with the approval of the General Authorities of the Church. These group conventions will be similar to those held in 1920, with the six auxiliaries of each stake participating, and will be held on dates indicated during the period of quarterly conferences, and will 460 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE take the place of auxiliary conferences formerly held in these stakes. The program for these conventions requires that there shall be an attendance of all stake and ward workers of the six auxiliary organizations; that the presiding authorities, the priesthood of the stakes and wards, and the general public, shall be invited to attend; the purpose being to increase their understanding and interest in all auxiliary endeavor. It is also required that representatives of each general board shall be in attendance to further the interests of their respective organizations. Meetings are arranged that will offer practical and definite assistance to each association: General sessions where subjects of equal interest to all may be presented; separate meetings of stake boards. TIME OF MEETINGS Saturday, 10 a. M. Regular Quarterly Conference Session. Saturday, ll a. M. Five Groups: 1. Meeting of Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers. 2. Meeting of Sunday School Local Superintendents, secretaries, librarians, and all other Sunday School workers not engaged in other auxiliary organizations at that hour. 3. Joint meeting of M. I. A. Stake Boards. * 4. Meeting of Primary Association Stake Board. 5. Meeting of Religion Class Stake Board. Note: All! Visitors and others not enumerated or included in the above may attend the Relief Society or Sunday School Departments, * Saturday, 2 p. M. Regular Quarterly Conference Session. Saturday, 3 p. M. Joint department meetings, four sections, for all auxiliaries 1. Supjerintendencies' and presidencies' Department: 2. Secretaries' and Treasurers' Department. 3. Choristers' and Organists' Department. 4. Teacher-Training Department. Note: All persons not included in these assignments may attend the M. I. A. Primary, or Religion Class Departments. Saturday Evening. Social, under the direction of Stake Presidency and Stake Social Committee (required) Sunday, 9 a. M.: 1. The Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers. 2. The Y. M. M. I. A. Stake and Ward Officers. 3. The Y. L. M. I. A. Stake and Ward. Officers. 4. Primary Association Stake and Ward Officers. NOTES FROM THE FIELD: 461 5. Religion Class Stake and Ward Officers. Note: All visitors may attend any one of these organizations which they may prefer, except the Relief Society. These organizations will meet and dismiss separately. Sunday, 10:30 a. M. Regular Quarterly Conference Session.. Sunday, 1:00 p. M. General session of all Sunday School Workers. Sunday, 2:30 p. M. Regular Quarterly Conference Session. PROGRAM OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS Saturday, 11 a. M. Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers 1. Accomplishments during the year.. Relief Society Stake Pres. 2. Relation of the Member to the Organization (a) Requirements, (b) Privileges...... General Board Member 3. Relief Society peeing, (a) The visitor, (b) The family visited.......General Board Member 4. Charity Contribution (a) Fast Contributions, (b) Relief Society Contributions......... General Board Member Saturday, 4 p. M. Relief Society Stake Board 1. Questionnaire, to be filled out by General Board Member during session. 2. Special Instructions (a) Ward conferences, (b) Division of Responsibility............. General Board Member Sunday, 9 a. M. Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers 1. Ward difficulties...........By Ward President 2. Qualifications and Duties of Officers... General Bd. Member On Saturday afternoon at 3 o'clock, four department meetings will be held as follows: 1. Superintendencies and Presidencies of all organizations. Secretaries and Treasurers of all organizations. Choristers and Organists of all organizations. Teacher-Training Meeting for Representatives of all organizations, 462 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Samoan Mission From Mrs. Thurza Adams, president of the Relief Society of the Samoan Mission, we have the following very interesting description of. The exercises held on March 17 by the Pesega Relief Society: "In several of the branches where a sufficient number of Saints reside to justify holding services, the-Relief Society Anniversary Day was observed, and taking it for granted that Pesega was but typical of the balance of the mission, we shall give you a glimpse of the way we spent our 17th of March.
"At nine o'clock in the morning, before the heat of a tropical day had taken possession of the iron-roofed church, the bell tolled sonorously and the Samoan Relief Society women could be observed wending their way to the Church from their pretty little brown-thatched homes that are barely discernible in a smothering mass of bananas and cocoanuts and other beautiful tropical verdure. Each was dressed in the long white mother hubbard universally prevalent among the Samoan women on fete or Sabbath days. Rebecca Aloese, the conference president of Relief Societies of Upolu, took charge of the services. The house was well filled and for nearly two hours all were interested and impressed by the discourses, most of them impromptu. The various phases of the work of the Relief Society were touched upon, and it was a convincing testimony of the practicality of the gospel to note the recognition of the value of the work of the organization as evidenced by each speaker in turn. Our Samoan sisters readily see their opportunities for church activity and seize it, and perform well their duties. At the conclusion of the services each member contributed her twenty-five cent due, about thirty in all so doing.
"At noon we were invited to the large house of Aupiu, our Pesega Samoan missionary (his wife Lupe is branch president) where a long circular table was laid. It was a banana-leaf table spread on the mat-covered pebble floor and upon it was heaped a vast array of tempting native food, together with such old forgotten acquaintances as bread, beef, and the ever faithful salmon and chicken. Perhaps fifty sat at the first table, all on the floor, native fashion. At the conclusion of the feast, a basin of clear water and towel were passed to each one, which was indeed necessary as we had eaten without implements except fingers. Immediately thereafter Samoan dancing of the picturesque native style was indulged in to the time of the tapping of sticks on a rolled-up mat and a dance chant of the spectators. From the feast and dance we recrossed the road to the large grassy front yard of the Mission Home where sides were chosen by a couple of Samoan sisters and a highly enjoyable cricket game indulged in, the missionaries all participating also. So
NOTES FROM THE FIELD — 463
contagious and whole-souled is island mirth, and so entirely happy are these islanders whether at work or play, that we felt like children again, to join them in their games. At the close of the cricket game, according to Samoan custom, the two sides sat on the grass facing each other and the victors demanded forfeits from those who were defeated. The comical stunts demanded and acceded to in genuine good nature furnished amusement of a vaudeville order after which the exercises of the day were concluded."
New Zealand Mission
In connection with the yearly report of the New Zealand mission we received the following interesting comments from the president, Mrs. Ida Stott, and secretary, Mrs. Flora D. Fisher: "The work of the Relief Society in New Zealand is quite different from that at home. Only in the last few years has it been established throughout the mission as a whole. The keeping of definite reports is practically new and is rather difficult for the Maori members, yet they show a great interest in the work, and are trying hard to carry out instructions. We now have in our mission thirty completely organized Relief Societies and it is interesting to note that we are eight thousand miles from Utah and are farther south than any other Relief Society organization in the world. Each month we hold two meetings; a religious meeting and a work meeting. At our religious meeting we have theological lessons, testimony bearing, and lessons on sanitation, caring for the children, etc. At our work meetings we sew for the poor and make material up to sell. In this way we get money for charitable purposes. Since the completion of the Hawaiian temple and the visit of the special delegation of Maoris to the temple and to Utah, the people have become greatly interested in genealogical and temple work, and every effort is being put forth by the leading Saints to get their genealogies complete. When the eventful day came for the first party of fourteen to leave their native land to give service in the temple at Honolulu, a great interest was aroused among the Saints at large. The hospitality of their native friends, the kindness shown them on every hand, and the thought of the wonderful work they were about to take up, made their departure very impressive. Those of the party who were privileged to extend their visit to Utah, reported on their return home that they were treated royally everywhere they went, and they never tire of relating their wonderful experiences incident to this trip. After three months of perfect pleasure in this work, the party returned to their native land, In the Hawks Bay conference
464 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
at the Korongata branch, near the Latter-day Saints Maori Agricultural College, a special home coming celebration was arranged in their honor at great expense and with much labor. Preparations were being made a week before hand to accommodate the guests and the large crowd of friends and visitors. A large Marquis tent was pitched in order that all the people might have the privilege of attending the meetings. At night the tent was used for sleeping quarters, the ground being covered with a thick layer of straw. Each day the tent was well filled with attentive listeners eager to hear the interesting reports brought back from Zion and the strong testimonies borne by the various members of the party. Many visitors attended the meetings to hear first hand information of Utah and the 'Mormons.' It may be of interest to mention, briefly in passing, that the food for this large crowd was prepared and served in a most excellent manner by the members of the Korongata branch, assisted by some of the young native boys from the Maori Agricultural College. Sports of various kinds were enjoyed on the afternoon of the second day and in the evening a concert was given to the guests and visitors by the Maori Agricultural College."
Hawaiian Mission
Mrs. Christina A. Bowles, wife of the president of the Laie conference, and assistant in the Hawaiian temple, is greatly enjoying her work in the Sandwich Islands. She is assisting in the temple but in addition to this she finds much time and opportunity to work with the women of the Relief Society. In speaking of the Relief Society she says: "I am happy to say that there are some very splendid branch organizations here, all equipped with officers and teachers who make their visits just as we do at home. They look well after the poor and the sick and are a kind, helpful lovable people, true to the gospel and to their callings. Anything undertaken by them is always done well. To illustrate this, the following will be of interest: Latter part of last January a letter was sent to all of the Relief Societies in the mission to take part in a fair which would be held here at Laie at the time of general conference. The members were invited to make articles typically Hawaiian, also such articles as quilts, lace, embroidery, etc., bringing or sending same to fair. The proceeds were to be divided, fifty per cent to go to the Hawaiian temple as a gift from the Relief Societies of that mission, and the other fifty per cent towards the purchase of a new organ for our chapel here. They went right to work and although they had only about six weeks' time to make articles, they came loaded with contributions, the excel-
NOTES FROM THE FIELD — 465
lent work or labor of their own hands. While Laie is some 35 miles from the city of Honolulu, and has but about 400 population of all peoples, yet we held the fair realizing some $1400, which, after all expenses are paid, will net a little over $600 to each of the funds aforementioned. The Hawaiian quilts are very beautiful and artistic and are superior to any that are made at home. In the fair they were sold at prices ranging from $25 to $50 each, and the Laie Relief Society took orders for five others.
"In regard to our meetings which are held every Saturday morning at ten o'clock, we cannot carry out the same programs as at home, yet we are presenting very excellent and profitable instructions to the members with the Story of the Book of Mormon as a text book. The first meeting of each month is given over to testimony bearing after the reports have been given in by the teachers who visit every week. The officers are kept in close touch with the work through these weekly visits."
Reorganizations
California Mission: During the recent Relief Society conference held in the California mission, Mrs. Louisa Jones was honorably released from the presidency of the Relief Society on account of ill health, and Mrs. Margaret K. Miller was sustained as her successor. In the last two years Mrs. Jones has visited all of the branches in the California Mission, including those located in Arizona. She has faithfully promoted all phases of Relief Society work. Last year the genealogical work was featured and this year social welfare work. Mrs. Jones has left California for St. George where she expects to recuperate and later to take up temple work.
Beaver Stake
The Beaver Stake Relief Society was reorganized on April 17, due to the resignation of Mrs. Cedaressa C. Shepherd, who, because of failing health, was compelled to give up the work. Mrs. Shepherd and her counselors, Mrs. Mary A. White and Mrs. Harriet E. Fotheringham have served faithfully in these positions for nearly twenty-four years, and Mrs. Betsey S. Goodwin has been treasurer for eight years. Mrs. Susan J. Murdock was appointed president, with Mrs. Annie E. Joseph and Mrs Jennie Tanner as counselors. Mrs. Alice G. White is the new secretary-treasurer, with Mrs, Martha A. Hoopes as assistant, Isabell McGregor was appointed chorister and Mrs. May C. White organist. A stake social was held in Beaver, May 13, in honor of the long and efficient services of the retiring officers. The large attendance was an evidence of the high esteem in
466 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
which they are held, nearly every Ward in the Stake being represented. After the program tokens of appreciation were presented to each of the four honored guests and delicious refreshments were served, Good results are being realized in the Beaver Stake from the labors of the Relief Society teachers, who, under the instruction of Mrs. Jane Mumford of the Stake Board have prepared topics for discussion each month. Beaver stake annual dues for 1921 were 100%.
On April 29, under the direction of the new Stake board
NOTES FROM THE FIELD — 467
for all phases of the pageant did their work exceptionally well and deserve credit for its splendid success.
"It was a wonderful story: interwoven with beautifully portrayed scenes of charity and mercy. The first episode carried one back to the time of the Savior and the great lessons of charity and mercy which he taught. It depicted and portrayed many beautiful Biblical truths and appealed to the finer sentiments and delicate emotions of the audience.
"The second episode conveyed a message of far-reaching import—that of the sweetness of service and charity—the whole-souled work of the Relief Society of today. It opened with a tableau representing the organization of the first Relief Society, 79 years ago, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, eighteen women and three elders of the Church. The climax came when the President of the Relief Society of each of the four wards, Mrs. Rose H. Grant, Mrs. S. W. Chipman, Mrs. Sylvia Shipley and Mrs. Melissa Greenwood, led by their stake president, Mrs. Annie C. Hindley, filed up on the stand and were presented with roses by little girls dressed as angels who knelt before them.
"Words cannot describe the grandeur of the final scene of the pageant—to be appreciated it must be seen.
"The Relief Societies of the Church are accomplishing a wonderful work, and it is just such events as this that bring clearly to our minds the magnitude of their labors.
"By special request the pageant will be repeated. It is expected that everyone who did not see this entertainment will avail themselves of the opportunity."
Box Elder Stake
A child welfare clinic has been conducted by the Box Elder Relief Society Stake Board at the Commercial Club rooms. Fearing that the strenuous winter of whooping cough, and other children's diseases, had left many children suffering from the bad effects of these various ailments, which if allowed to go unattended for any length of time might retard their growth physically and mentally, the Relief Society arranged for the clinic. The aid of the local doctors was solicited, also the aid of a specialist from Salt Lake City. The Relief Society ward presidents received the names of the children and made definite appointments for them so that unnecessary waiting would be avoided. A survey, or health card was used which after being copied for record keeping, was given to the parent so that the true condition of the child and advice of the doctor might be understood. Thirty-five babies were given a thorough examination, with remedial measures necessary to correct the defects.
468 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The clinic was part of the charity and relief work of the Relief Society and that it was appreciated was manifested by the great fleet of baby buggies lining the sidewalk in front of the Commercial Club during clinic hours. The work did not stop with the clinic, however, for follow-up work was continued for days and assistance given following the doctor's advice: The health card called for the following information: Name, age, b. Wt., present wt., parents, number other children, previous diseases: measles, mumps, scarlet fever, diphtheria, whooping cough, pneumonia, bronchitis, tonsilitis; general health: good, fair, poor, frequent colds, yes or no; repeated attacks of indigestion, diet from birth, tea, coffee, milk, eats between meals, bowels, sleep, mouth open, quiet, restless, snores. Remarks. Physical examination: inspection, bright, dense, nervous, apathetic; general condition, good, fair, poor; muscles; head; eyes.
On the 13th of March, 1921, was the 43rd anniversary of the Box Elder stake Relief Society. On March 13, 1878, the stake Relief Society was organized and on the same day, Brigham City Relief Society was divided into four ward organizations, and in addition a new ward society, to be known as the Fifth Ward Society, was organized.
The Testing Rod
In the face of the fact, I so often give offense and just as often repent, I grow tired of taking myself to task and should do better. To those who keep up a sincere repentance, and still often sin, life is hard. God must test each time you repent, (it's the law) to see if you are gold. Each time you sin, that same test must come again, until we become so weary we do not wish to try more. Repent and cease to sin more, and you become so strong, it were as if God had put a hedge about you. And you are full of peace and good will to God and your fellow man. You in tune—the light appears, others see it and follow—and you say, "God be praised."—Eva Powell.
World Happenings By James H. Anderson
"Mormon" missionaries were being sent to Germany in June.
Ex-President Wm. H. Taft was appointed, in June, as chief justice of the United States Supreme Court.
Mexico has purchased land in Sonora formerly owned by "Mormons," for the sum of $100,000.
The Federation of Women's Clubs held its convention in Salt Lake City the week of June 13.
Ireland's rebellion continued in June, with many efforts for settlement being made by British statesmen.
Japan noted in June the anti-Japanese feeling in the United States, but has no disposition to engage in war.
The Irish Ulster parliament was formerly opened by King George V of Great Britain, at Belfast, on June 22.
The League of Nations has thus far avoided the great disputes in Europe, leaving these to the large nations as of yore.
The Zionist organization at Pittsburg, Pa., raised an additional $5,000,000 in June, for Palestine development.
Business improvement in the United States was promised in financial circles for this summer, but thus far it is only promise.
The Bonneville irrigation project in Davis County, Utah, in some respects the largest in the West, was formally opened to service on July 4th.
Greece and Turkey continued at war in earnest during June. The former refused to allow the European great nations to adjust the dispute.
Dr. Herbert Louis Samuels, high commissioner for Palestine, is meeting with marked success in securing harmony among the creeds there.
470 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Stella Benson, an English woman, made a trip around the world, earning her own way, the last three years, reaching London in June. She had many thrilling experiences.
Shipment of over 500 machine guns from the United States to Ireland was stopped in June by American government officers.
In Great Britain, on June 27, the great coal miners' strike came to an end. The effect in the United States was to quiet proposed industrial disturbances here.
Mrs. Virginia Mason Huck, daughter of the late Congressman Mason of Illinois, has been designated to fill her father's unexpired term in Congress.
Charles F. Champlin, treasurer of a Chicago soap factory, defeated 45 women entrants at the Evanston, Ills., fair, in June, in the contest for a prize for making the best loaf of bread.
The American Federation of Labor, at its convention in Denver in June, endorsed members convicted in Kansas as lawbreakers, and re-elected Samuel Gompers as its president.
Maximilian Harden, the noted German political writer, in an announcement made in June, says Germany is a republic without republicans, the people not caring as to the form of government there.
Lady Surma, who acted as ambassador from Assyria to Great Britain, is likely to be the first president of the new Assyrian government. She is a woman of marked ability and tactfulness.
10,000 Mennonites propose to move from Canada to Mexico in the near future, because the Canadian government proposes to teach their children history, geography, and the English language.
Lightning caused an oil tank fire at Salt Lake City on June 3, resulting in three dead and many injured. A similar cause ignited seven oil tanks at Casper, Wyo., but there was no loss of life.
Kate Richard O'Hare, Socialist lecturer who was to have
WORLD HAPPENINGS — 471
delivered an address at Twin Falls, Idaho, on the last of June, was kidnapped and carried to Nevada by a dozen men, and there succeeded in making her escape unharmed.
Mrs. Louie B. Felt and Miss May Anderson, president and first counselor in the L, D. S. Primary Associations, went to New York in June, to study methods for homes for dependent and convalescing children.
Mrs. Rosita Forbes, an English woman, returned in June from a trip to Kufra, the sacred city of the African Arabs. She is the only European to make the trip, and on numerous occasions narrowly escaped being put to death.
War between the United States and Germany came officially to an end on July 2, by President Harding signing a peace resolution passed by Congress. This definitely removes the United States from participation in the Versailles peace treaty league.
Miss Monica Parry Walsh, of New York, achieved signal success in New York in June, in getting unemployed men in New York City to go on farms as farm hands, but says there are nearly 400,000 left who should move out of the great city and get to work.
Mrs. Gertrude Bonnin, a full blooded Sioux Indian, is leading in efforts to have American Indians trained with white children in American public schools, and in June received a letter from President Heber J. Grant of the "Mormon" Church to the Utah delegation in Congress, endorsing her work.
Dr. George Thomas, a Utah man, elected last November as State superintendent of public instruction, was selected in June as president of the University of Utah, to succeed Dr. Widtsoe, resigned, because of his membership in the council of apostles. Dr. Thomas is capable and highly educated.
Storms, resulting in disastrous floods, marked the month of June. The worst in the United States was in the Arkansas river valley, engulfing Pueblo, Colorado, and adjacent small towns, with a loss of 437 lives. In Japan, one such flood drowned 400 people. Other storms in the United States and elsewhere took less toll of life, but added to the enormous destruction of property.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISA YATES ROBISON - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Susa Young Gates Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - Susa Young Gates Business Manager - - - - Jeanette A. Hyde Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. VIII. AUGUST, 1921 No. 8
GIRLHOOD'S DANGERS
We find the following pertinent remarks in a recent issue of the Boston Post. They apply to this city's dangers as much as to Boston's snares for the unwary feet of youth:
Read This, Mothers!
No Love-Making on Park Benches.
Superintendent Crowley's men, Augmented by Women Officers, to Keep Sharp Watch.
There will be no spooning allowed on Boston's park benches, according to Superintendent of Police Michael J. Crowley. Boston will not follow the example of Kansas City, Mo., and recognize love-making as a legitimate summer sport, as Chief of Police Edwards of that city has done. The police of the western city may have something more to do than clear the park benches of boys and girls making love, but it is still part of the duty of Boston police officers. In addition, there are now six police-women, a part of whose duty it is to prevent love-making in the parks and what it often leads to. Superintendent Crowley is not of the same opinion as the Kansas City police head.
EDITORIAL — 473
"I think lots of harm comes of promiscuous love-making on park benches," said the superintendent. "We don't allow it in Boston. A young couple can sit on a park bench without fear of interference if they behave themselves. But if they start any hugging or kissing they will be spoken to. For persisting, and for certain other things, we arrest them.
"During the war and since, the rules against love-making in public have been very stringent. If anything, we are making a harder fight against it than ever before, and several organizations interested in the welfare of the young have taken very definite steps to put a stop to it.
"No," said superintendent Crowley, "love-making in the parks will not be given free rein as a summer sport this season."
"If they would stick to the benches it would be safe. But most of the park type of love-making merely starts there," said Miss Mary E. Driscoll of the U. S. Social Hygiene board, who works among the soldiers and sailors who are in or pass through this city.
"No one wants to stop love-making. It is a perfectly natural expression of the growing boy and girl,' added Miss Driscoll. "Many of them, both boys and girls, for one reason and another, need to be protected against what they do not know, and for their future happiness.
"This 'handling stuff' is dangerous, unless girls and boys have the proper environment and guidance, few are constituted so that they can come through the period when the crave affection unharmed. The risk of their doing so is very great.
"I believe love-making to be the inalienable right of every young man and woman, but I can not agree to accept it as a legitimate summer sport on our park benches.
"The greatest danger is to the little girls of 14, and even as young as 12, who have no understanding of the craving within them for affection. It is really a beautiful thing, and it is too bad that it should lead to such evil ends.
"Once let a girl taste the promiscuous affection that is usually dispensed from a park bench by a boy who may be a stranger, and it is difficult to find anything else that you can offer her to take its place.
"It is pathetic, and it would surprise many people to know how absolutely the girl believes in the avowals of the first young man who tells her how sweet and lovely she is," said Miss Driscoll. "But it spoils them, and when their Prince Charming seeks pastures new, they do the same thing.
"I wish it was a law that every young girl from the ages of 12 to 18, seen in doubtful company on the streets or under doubt-
474 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ful circumstances, could be spoken to and questioned by the proper authorities.
"I think it should be a law that women and girls be kept from lying on the grass on the Common, or any park after a certain hour at night. This might work a hardship to some mothers of the poorer quarters of the city and their babies, but the protection it would afford to young women and girls would balance it many times over.
"We should enforce the law keeping girls of 17 and under out of the public dance halls which they now frequent and which are so dangerous to them for the examples set by older girls and women.
"If a philanthropist wants to confer a benefit on the youth of the city, he or she can establish a clean dance hall, without jazz, where girls and boys can dance together decently. Youth is entitled to dance and to make love, but how to make it safe for them is the problem..
"One thing more," said Mrs. Driscoll. "Let parents encourage their children to express their affection for them at home. Don't try to suppress affection. It is one of the reasons little girls pick up with boys on park benches."
REAPING THE REWARD OR PAYING THE PRICE
June is the favorite marriage month for our young people to go to the altar to covenant with one another and with the Lord. Usually they also go into the temple to receive their endowments at the same time, and there to enter into other covenants. We have all thus vowed to be faithful, pure, loyal and to honor God and keep his commandments.
After, as well as before marriage, young people are inclined to gauge their actions by the examples set before them. Or they want excuses to relax their spiritual vigilance on some points, and therefore they quote the wrong-doing of people high in authority as justification for their own weaknesses, and the breaking of their own covenants, "Sister So and So," they say, "is on the General or Stake board, or she is the wife of a high Church man; she serves tea and coffee at her parties; or she wears short sleeves and low-necked dresses; her daughters refuse to have children oftener than once in three or four years—so why blame me?"
Mothers are often confused and distracted by these apparently simple questions which involve three separate spiritual problems: First, the strength and the weakness of example; second, the free agency of man; third, the law of cause and effect.
EDITORIAL — 475
Every person can do right or wrong as he pleases, that is the exercise of our free agency for which the Savior died upon the Cross. Every example is subtly uplifting, or subtly degrading, and is sometimes a subtle mixture of both good and evil. But the law of cause and effect is as simple as daylight and as inevitable as death.
Content yourselves by explaining to your daughters the fact that each covenant taken at the altars of God in marriage or in daily life are but the expressions of law. Here is a law! Keep it, and you will get the blessing. Break it, and you must pay the price. Neither you nor any living man or woman can do otherwise. If you keep your marriage vows sacred, both you and your children will be blest. If you break your vows, both you and your children will pay the bitter price. So with all other covenants. Keep them, and you get the blessing; break them, and you pay the price. So will the member of the General or Stake board, and so will every wife and child of every leader in this Church. Law knows no favoritism. "There must needs be offenses!" to try us perhaps, to test our own characters, "but woe to them by whom they come!"
The Jews were like children and could bear only the lower law which "was a schoolmaster to bring them to Christ." But Latter-day Saints have the higher law and must prove their superior intelligence and maturity by observing law, no matter who may break laws about them. Tell your daughters frankly that they can always choose good or evil; but they should be strong enough and intelligent enough not to blame others for their own weaknesses. There is a reward to reap or a price to pay for every act of our lives, every thought of our brains. We pay the physical price for action as well as for inaction. Action is growth and life, inactivity is death. Think bright or think gloomy thoughts, and you reap the reward or pay the price. Others will pay the price or reap the reward. What are YOU doing? Reaping the reward or paying the price?
BOOK NOTICE
One of the most interesting and valuable stories concerning the early settlement of Utah comes from the pen of Major Howard Egan. It is The Diaries of a Pioneer of the West, a Trail Blazer of the Overland Route. He was a Pony Express and overland mail agent. Captain of 50's with the "Mormon" exodus; special messenger for "Mormon" Battalion, 1846; Capt.
476 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
9th 10 of the original 144 pioneers; he made three trips to Salt Lake from the states, and innumerable trips to California on three or more routes. The book is published by the Skelton Publishing Co., Salt Lake; but can be obtained from members of the Egan Family. William M. Egan, compiler and editor of Pioneering the West; editor and publisher of Our Desert Home, and The Utah Industrialist. Address: No. 3 Gerard Ave., Salt Lake City.
But One Little Talent Janey Haefeli
If you have but one little talent And its light is dim and small, If you polish it and use it Where 'twill do a little good It will grow to be a great light As the Maker meant it should.
If you dig a hole and hide it, Guard its hiding place with care, From unuse it will grow tarnished, Its existence come to naught, Though it might have been a beacon, If it had not been forgot.
Is better than neglect. God never made a little star To shine brighter than the sun. Nor did he give the talents Just alike to every one.
Each talent should be useful. And each little light should shine. He doesn't set an infant To accomplish like a man.
He knew what each could do Before the world began.
One small talent, if it's valued,
Guide Lessons for October
LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in October)
MARRIAGE
Celestial marriage is the union for time and for all eternity of husband and wife. To be of such effect it must be solemnized by the President of the Church who alone holds the keys of the sealing power, or by some man duly authorized by the President of the Church. In ancient Hebrew days no doubt this was understood and practiced. Marriage is an ordinance which pertains to life on the earth; and yet when entered into under the celestial law the effects of this ordinance, like that of baptism, and the receiving of the Priesthood itself is continued on throughout the endless ages.
The world's definition of marriage is that marriage is a civil or a religious contract, or both, entered into between a man and a woman for the protection of the children and for the perpetuation of decent family life. If men were not bound by a stern contract before the law, many of them would fail in their duty to support the wife and children and would leave them at will. But all governments have laws which protect the wife and children, financially and morally. Marriage is and was instituted primarily for the purpose of perpetuating the race through the bearing and rearing of children. If there are no children the purpose of the union is but half fulfilled.
No other people on the earth, so far as is known, teaches the doctrine of marriage for time and eternity, and certainly none have the authority to seal for eternity, except the Latter-day Saints. Poets, and lovers have indulged in flights of fancy and poetry which carry a longing hope for a certain acquaintance in their spiritualized relation after death, but no Christian presumes to announce such a hope as his belief. The Buddhists who believe in re-incarnation, hold that a man and woman may be embodied again and again, and perhaps both at the same period of time; so that if they loved in a former incarnation they might again marry. This thought forms the motif of some wellknown modern novels. 5 All Christian sects interpret the saying of the Savior, "For 478 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven," Matt. 22:30, to mean that no one can sustain the relationship of marriage on the other side, either physically or spiritually. They fail to read the next two verses: "But as touching the resurrection of the dead, have ye not read that which was spoken unto you by God, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? God is not the God of the dead, but of the living." This saying means that the ceremony and sealing power of mortal to mortal should be performed on earth where the earthly life has been experienced. That is one reason why we build temples and perform the marriage ceremonies for our living and for our dead in these sacred houses. Now let us see what our Christian friends think about marriage. The following definition of marriage is found in the Bible Dictionary, as issued by the American tract Society, and is, therefore, presumably accepted by all the Christian faiths: "Marriage is the union for life of one man and one woman to form one flesh, and is an ordinance of the Creator for the perpetuity and happiness of the human race, it was instituted in paradise." (See Genesis 1:27-28; 2:18-24.) There are two kinds of legal marriage ceremonies in modern civilized life, one is strictly civil, and the other is religious which, however, must also be accompanied, in this country, by a permit or license from civil authorities in order that there can be proper legal protection to women and children in case of dispute before the civil law between husband and wife, such as proceedings for a divorce. Only non-religious persons content themselves with a civil marriage before a magistrate, which marriage is nothing more nor less than an ordinary contract between two parties attested to in the presence of witnesses, and accepted and recorded by duly authorized agents of the government. It is binding before the civil law, as is any building permit or other civil contract. Do you know the nature of a civil contract? If not, learn something now about it; ask a lawyer to instruct you on this important point. No church, outside of our Church, except the Catholic church, makes of marriage a sacrament; none of them, not even the Catholic church itself, assumes any authority to make the contract binding only until death parts the two people. The Presbyterian says distinctly, "marriage is not a sacrament." (What the World Believes.) No church, except ours, performs the marriage ceremony for the dead. The oriental customs of marriage, especially among the GUIDE LESSONS; 479 Hebrews, can be learned through consulting any students' Bible or encyclopedia. In ancient times marriage ceremonies were elaborate, the gifts were costly, and weeks were spent in preparation and feasting before and after the ceremony. (Gen. 24:3; 4:38; Judges, 14:4; Prov. 2:17; Gen. 24:16; Judges 14:17, 18; Matt. 25.) Now, as to our modern Christian beliefs on the marriage ceremony: We will give here the ceremony, or form of solemnization, of matrimony as given in the English Prayer Book; which form is common to most of the Protestant churches, with a few modifications by this or that sect: At the day and time appointed for solemnization of matrimony, the persons to be married shall come into the body of the church, or shall be ready in some proper house, with their friends and neighbors; and there standing together, the man on the right hand, and the woman on the left, the minister shall say: Dearly beloved, we are gathered together here in the sight of God, and in the face of this company to join together this man and this woman in holy matrimony; which is commended of Saint Paul to be honorable among all men: and therefore is not by any to be entered into inadvisedly or lightly; but reverently, discreetly, advisedly, soberly and in the fear of God. Into this holy estate these two persons present come now to be joined. If any man can show just cause, why they may not lawfully be joined together, let him now speak or else hereafter forever hold his peace.' (And also speaking unto the persons who are to be married shall say:): "I require and charge you both, as ye will answer at the dreadful day of judgment when the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed, that if either of you know any impediment, why ye may not be lawfully joined together in matrimony, ye now do confess it. For be you well assured, that if any persons are joined together, otherwise than as God's words doth allow, their marriage is not lawful." The minister, if he shall have reason. To doubt of the lawfulness of the proposed marriage, may demand sufficient surety for his identificatioin: but if no impediment shall be alleged or suspected, the minister shall say to the man: "Wilt thou have this woman to be thy wedded wife, to live together after God's ordinances in the holy estate of matrimony? Wilt thou love her, comfort her, honor her, and keep her in sickness and in health; and, forsaking all others keep thee only unto her, so long as ye both shall live?" The man shall answer, "I will." Then shall the minister say unto the woman: "Wilt thou have this man to be thy wedded husband to live together after God's ordinance in the holy estate of matrimony? Wilt thou obey him and serve him, love, honor and keep him in sickness and in health; and, forsaking all others, keep thee only unto her, so long as ye both shall live?" The woman shall answer, "I will." Then shall the minister say: "Who giveth this woman to be married to this man?" Then they give their troth to each other in this manner, the min- 480 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ister receiving the woman at her father's hands shall cause the man with his right hand to take the woman by her right hand, and to say after him as followeth: "I take thee to my wedded wife, to have and to hold from this day forward, for better for worse, for richer for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, 'till death do us part, according to God's ordinance, and hereto I plight thee my troth." Then shall they loose their hands: and the woman with her right hand, taking the man by his right hand, shall likewise say after the minister: "I take thee to my wedded husband, to have and to hold from this day forward, for better for worse, for richer for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love, cherish, and to obey, fill death do us part, according to God's holy ordinance; and here too I give thee my troth," Then shall they again loose their hands and the man shall give unto the woman a ring. And the minister, taking the ring, shall deliver it unto the man, to put it upon the fourth finger of the woman's left hand. And the man holding the ring there, and taught by the minister, shall say: "With this ring, I thee wed, and with all my worldly goods I thee endow: in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen." Then the man, leaving the ring upon the fourth finger of the woman's hand, the minister shall say: "Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth, as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. Lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil. Amen. "O eternal God, Creator, and Preserver of all mankind, Giver cI all spiritual grace, the Author of everlasting life; send thy blessing upon these thy servants, this man and this woman, whom we bless in thy name; that as Isaac and Rebecca lived faithfully together, so these persons may surely perform and keep the vow and covenants betwixt them made, (wherefore this ring given and received is a token and pledge), and may ever remain in perfect love and peace together, and live according to the laws; through Jesus Christ our Lord, Amen." Then shall the minister join their right hands together, and say, "Those whom God hath joined together let no man put asunder." Then shall the minister speak unto the company: "For as much as N. And M. Have consented together in holy wedlock, and have witnessed the same before God and this company, and thereto have given and pledged their troth, each to the other, and have declared the same by giving and receiving a ring, and by joining hands; I pronounce that they are Man and Wife, in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost. Amen." And the minister shall add this blessing: "God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Ghost, bless, preserve, and keep you; the Lord mercifully with his favor look upon you, and fill you with all spiritual benediction and 'grace; that ye may so live together in this life that in the world to come ye may have life everlasting. Amen.". The American Methodist Episcopalian service is practically the same with the significant elimination of the covenant of obedience which is made by the woman to the man, in the Eng- GUIDE LESSONS 481 lish ceremony. Practically all Christian sects use the form above given, with small variations. The Catholics' attitude, as found in their own Cathechism, is as follows: The Sacrament of Matrimony is the sacrament which unites a Christian man and woman in lawful marriage. A Christian man and woman cannot be united in lawful marriage in any other way than by the Sacrament of Matrimony, because Christ raised marriage to the dignity of a sacrament. The bond of Christian marriage cannot be dissolved by any human power. The effects of the Sacrament of matrimony are first, to sanctify the love of husband and wife; 2nd, to give them grace to bear with each other's weaknesses; 3rd, to enable them to bring up their children in the fear and love of God. The church alone has the right to make laws concerning the sacrament of the marriage contract, though the state also has the right to make laws concerning the civil effects of the marriage contract. The church forbids the marriage of Catholics with persons who have a different religion or no religion at all, because such marriages generally lead to indifference, loss of faith, and to the neglect of the religious education of the children. Many marriages prove unhappy because they are entered into hastily and without worthy motives. Christians should prepare for holy and happy marriage by receiving the Sacrament of Penance and Holy Eucharist; by begging God to grant them a pure intention to so direct their choice; and by seeking the advice of their parents and the blessings of the pastors. Note the two significant points in this statement; first, the Catholic marriage can not be dissolved by any human power, which, of course, precludes the possibility of divorce. Some Catholics, however, by special dispensation of the Pope, do get a sort of divorce. It will be remembered that the quarrel between Henry Eighth and the Catholic church began with the pope's refusal to grant him any more divorces, and to marry him to any more wives. The second notable point is that the church forbids the marriage of Catholic with those of a different religion, and it should be stated that the orthodox Catholic certainly lives up to this teaching to a marked degree. But as said before, exceptions are made. The following quotation from the eleventh edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica will prove this fact: Divorce, that is, the annulment of marriage for any cause but an impediment which makes the marriage void, is unknown to the Roman Catholic church, Separation is only possible under the canon law by a judicial decree of nullity, which implies not the severing of the ties of a real marriage, but the solemn declaration that such marriage has never existed, There may, however, be a "separation from bed and board," even perpetual, which does not, however, give either party the right to marry during the life time of the other. But, marriage not being regarded as a sacrament until consummated, it may be dissolved, if nonconsummation be proved, by one or both parties taking the religious 482 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE vows, or by papal dispensation. The church claims exclusive control over marriage, and the council of Trent anathematized the opinion held by Luther and other Reformers, that it was properly a subject for the civil courts. This attitude became of extreme political importance when even in Catholic countries the codes established civil marriage ag the only legally binding form. All down through the scriptures Hebrews were enjoined with heavy penalties not to marry outside their faith. Catholics still observe this law pretty well, and the Jews of today are as strict as they were in days of old; that is, orthodox Jews are. What a pity that Latter-day Saints are not as faithful in keeping this law of intermarriage as are Jews and Catholics! A case in point is related by Elder Edward T. Ashton of the presidency of the Salt Lake stake of Zion. Traveling recently to St. George with a Hebrew, in the course of a pleasant conversation, the Hebrew remarked, that his mission to St. George would be of interest to his companion; for he was going down there to break up a marriage between one of his faith anc one of our faith. When asked as to traveling 300 miles to perform such a mission, the Hebrew gentleman replied that he would travel any distance in the state for such a purpose. Indeed his whole mission centered in the watch-care of the youth of his people in this state on that particular. Point. And he added, 'You may be interested to know that in 22 years in this state only two Orthodox Jews have married outside our people." What a magnificent record is that! The Latter-day Saints are blessed beyond their comprehension; for in their religion exists the authority of the priesthood, to seal not only for time, but for all eternity as well. Moreover, that sealing power makes the offspring of the marriage direct heirs to all the gifts and privileges of the gospel, and permits the parents to bring into the world the seed of promise which has been waiting for 6,000 years to come forth in this the last dispensation of time. Read the revelation on the marriage covenant for eternity. (Sec. 132 Doc. And Cov.) That celestial order of marriage pertains to the union of one man and one woman as well as to one man and several wives; it permitted and sanctioned the marriage of one man with more than one woman until the issuance of the Manifesto by President Wilford Woodruff, in 1890; and re-issued by President Joseph F. Smith in 1904. Since then no plural marriages are performed; all who claim otherwise are apostates to the gospel, and to the authority of God's holy priesthood. Do you understand that, students and sisters? But all single marriages performed before then and since then in the temples are marriages for eternity, as well as for time, and are in full harmony with GUIDE LESSONS - 483 the laws of God and man. How glorious to contemplate such a condition and such a promise. One thing more concerning marriage is worthy our consideration. This Church is more liberal to women than any other church in the world. A woman who is unhappy or abused in the marriage relation is justified in securing a divorce, for the man who has power to bind on earth and it is bound in heaven, also has the power to loose on earth and it is loosed in heaven The keys of the power to loose are held by one man—the President of the Church—and he has not delegated this power to any other man, as he has done in the case of sealing. Women in the final analysis, when they reach their heavenly state, will have the privilege of being placed where they belong and where their heart's affection is turned. In case of separation in the Church the children go with the mother, where the father is unworthy. No greater testimony of the breadth of sympathy and justice accorded women could be shown than in this religious provision. The Church teaches as did Paul, that the woman is not without the man in Christ Jesus nor is the man without the woman in Christ Jesus; and no unmarried man or woman can attain to the highest glory. A woman may be single, not from any fault of hers; usually it is not so with the man. Teach your children the glorious privilege of temple marriage; and the dangers of marriage with an unbeliever; and teach them by precept and example the beauty of the marriage relation through your own reverence for that covenant, and your respect for your husband and your obedience to his counsel. In that way children will imbibe a wholesome respect for the marriage ceremony itself and reverence for all that the ceremony implies and promises. Marriage is primarily for the bearing and rearing of children; those who refuse to bear children wilfully annul the marriage covenant, and therefore are covenant breakers and are on the sure road to apostasy and death. Birthcontrol, or limitation of offspring originates with the devil and leads downward. Beware of that doctrine. QUESTIONS What is marriage? Why do you hold it sacred? What protection to children does marriage afford?. Read about marriage in the encyclopedia, and then discuss: civil marriage, Catholic marriage, Roman laws, in regard to marriage. Our own U. S. Laws on marriage. 5. What can you say about marriage for time? For eternity?484; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 6. Who in our Church possesses the authority to marry for time and eternity? How did the Church obtain that authority? : 7. If parents who are married outside of the Church lose their children by death, who will rear those children to maturity in eternity? 8. What do you teach your children about marriage? 9. Why will birth-control annul our sacred marriage covenant? 10. What is good cause for divorce? 11. Do your children and grand children believe in tempie marirage? If not, why not? 12. Invite a good L. D. S. Lawyer to give a talk on the civil aspects of marriage and divorce. LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week, in October) LESSON ITI Literature (Third Week in October) The hymnology of the Latter-day Saints is particularly rich in funeral hymns. The mere mention of such hymns as "Thou Dost Not Weep to Weep Alone," "Rest on the Hill Side Rest," "When First the Glorious Light of Truth," "O, my Father," and "Resting Now," is sufficient proof of the fact. Many of the choicest of these funeral hymns were written by Eliza R. Snow, truly the most gifted woman of the fold of Christ of these latter days. As we note the fact that Eliza R. Snow's contribution of funeral hymns is especially valuable, it may be of more than passing interest to call to mind that "Nearer, my God, to Thee" and "One Sweetly Solemn Thought" were both written by women. Eliza R. Snow's 'best funeral hymns are, "Thou Dost Not Weep to Weep Alone," "Though Deepening Trials Throng Your Way," "Your Sweet Little Rose Bud has Left You," and that great Latter-day Saint hymn, "O, my Father," which should GUIDE LESSONS 485 perhaps be classified as a doctrinal hymn, but which must also be included in any list of funeral hymns of the Latter-day Saints, as it has served more frequently as a funeral hymn than any other hymn known to the Latter-day Saints. The Latter-day Saint hymn book contains over twenty hymns written by Eliza R. Snow, the only other writers who have contributed an equal number of hymns to the hymn book, are Parley P. Pratt and W. W. Phelps. The theology of the Latter-day Saints is responsible, no doubt, for the large number of good funeral hymns to be found in its hymnology. The knowledge that God is our Father, that we had a pre-existent state, and that this life is but part of the eternity to be continued in our third estate, the belief that death is as natural as birth, and that passing from this life is but passing into another realm of our Father, where living and loving and working and learning are as much the order of things as they are here, could only have the effect of stimulating literature along this line; for great thoughts accompanied by great feelings are ever the source of the poets' song. Some of the early pioneers tell us that the three most popular hymns with the Saints while crossing the plains were, "When First the Glorious Light of Truth," "O, my Father," and 'Come, Come, ye Saints." There are times when all of these hymns may appropriately be sung at funerals. The best known of Eliza R. Snow's funeral hymns are, "Thou Dost Not Weep to Weep Alone,' "O, my Father," "Though Deepening Trials Throng Your Way," and "Your Sweet Little Rose Bud has Left You." "Thou Dost Not Weep to Weep Alone," was written after the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph, and is the hymn that its author felt would have been an approprivate hymn to sing at his funeral service, had such a thing been possible. "Thou dost not weep to weep alone; The broad bereavement seems to fall Unheeded and unfelt by none; He was beloved, beloved by all." We are struck with the pectiliar aptness of expression found in the first stanza, for the thought that the poet gives voice to was no doubt lurking in the minds of every Latter-day Saint living at the time of his death and all who have lived since that time. The first stanza which is a declaration of love, is followed by the second stanza which is a declaration of hope. "But lo! What joy salutes our grief! Bright rainbows crown the tearful gloom, Hope, hope eternal, brings relief: Faith sounds a triumph o'er the tomb, 486 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The personification of the words, hope and faith, in this stanza naturally lifts the expression, as does also the figurative language of the second line: "Tt soothes our sorrow, Says to thee, The Lord in chastening comes to bless, God is thy God, and he will be, A father to the fatherless," Hope soothes, for hand in hand with the chastening rod comes the promise that sustains, for the Lord has said that he will be a Father to the fatherless., "Tis well with the departed one; His heaven-lit lamp was shining bright, And when his mortal day went down, His spirit fled where reigns no night," Note that every figure in this stanza suggests light. "Tis meet to die as he has died; He smiled amid death's conquered gloom, White angels waited by his side, To bear a kindred spirit home." The task of paying a fitting tribute to one truly great is not an easy task. Many persons attempting so delicate a piece of work fail. Occasionally one has eminent success, as had Alfred Tennyson, when he wrote the Ode to the Duke of Wellington. The very mention of the Prophet Joseph Smith stirs the heart to the very depths, and brings to the mind a flood of memories. Sister Snow knew all this, and she knew how nearly unsupportable was the grief of the people at his untimely death. In the light of her knowledge we feel that her last stanza is particularly appropriate: "Vain are the trophies wealth can give; His memory needs no sculptor's art; He's left a name—his virtues live, 'Graved on the tablets of the heart." In this last stanza the author thinks of the worshipful love of the people. For the prophet, which is above and beyond any trophy that man can rear. The fitness of "Though Deepening Trials Throng Your Way," as a funeral hymn, rests on the sentiment of the first two stanzas: "Though deep'ning trials throng your way, Press on, press on, ye saints of God! Ere long the resurrection day Will spread its light and truth abroad." GUIDE LESSONS 487 "Though outward ills await us here, The time at longest is not long Ere Jesus Christ will re-appear Surrounded by a glorious throng." After the first two stanzas the hymn is devoted to the tribulations that the latter-day Saints must endure from trials within and foes without, and lastly the poet reminds us, that God's promises fail not, and that our gratitude is due the great Creator, because he has sent his servants forth to preach the gospel unto men. We confess that this hymn lacks unity. It appears to have three themes rather than one. The excellence of the first two stanzas, coupled with the beautiful music to which it has been set by that composer-genius, George Careless, is undoubtedly responsible for its popularity. "Your Sweet Little Rosebud has Left You," is designed to be sung at the funeral of infants and very small children. This hymn is in sharp contrast to "Though Deepening Trials" in that the unity of the theme is preserved throughout. In the beginning it suggests resignation because of the hope and peace the gospel brings. The imagery employed is natural, for flowers constantly suggest children, and parents through the ages have always called their children their jewels and their treasures. Have the hymn read at this point. Note that all the consolation offered at the death of an adult is offered to those suffering for the loss of a child, to which is added the thought that the child itself will be saved the sorrow of temptation and pain, incident to all who live the mortal life. While in Nauvoo, Eliza R. Snow served as governess in the Prophet Joseph's family. While serving in this capacity, she undoubtedly heard many theological discussions on important themes not heard by people in general. The Latter-day Saints learned the gospel little by little. It took. Some time for the real significance of many truths to take hold of them. This was particularly true as it related to our kinship to our Father in Heaven, Zina D. H. Young had grieved very seriously over the loss of her mother. The discovery of the petrified body of her mother near where the Saints were located seems to have revived her grief and caused her to ask the Prophet a good many questions in relation to the dead. Her mother's body had been laid away but a few months before, but the peculiar soil had petrified it. Among other questions she asked, "Shall I know my mother when I meet her in the world beyond?" The prophet answered emphatically, "Yes, you will know your mother there." 488 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE This discussion with others, no doubt, led Eliza R. Snow to ponder over the matter of relationship to God, and from the prophet's revelation on this marvelously new point, in all probability came the inspiration to write that greatest of all Latterday Saint hymns, "O, my Father." The hymn was written in the city of Nauvoo in her unfinished room, on a wooden chest, which was the poet's only table. The first stanza of this immortal hymn opens with a question: "O my Father, thou that dwellest In the high and glorious place, When shall I regain thy presence, And again behold thy face?" The word regain publishes the knowledge of the pre-existent state. Then the imagination of the writer makes concrete the great eternal truth of the literal fatherhood of God, by setting forth the thought that in the spirit world, we dwelt with God in his holy habitation and there we were nurtured by his side. The second stanza moves to the second estate, or the mortal estate. It is for man's eternal glory that he is permitted to come to this world, and natural as it is to wish to know all the details of that life in the pre-existent estate, the poet proceeds to satisfy that desire and assures us that, "For a wise and glorious purpose, Thou hast placed me here on earth, And withheld the recollection Of my former friends and birth." Yet, says the poet, though memory cut off the past, there is a spirit within that testifies of what has been, and this "secret something," which Eliza R. Snow calls from on high, and which Wadsworth calls an intimation, whispers, "You're a stranger here," and I feel and know that I have "wandered from a more exalted sphere." The third stanza is the most important stanza in the hymn. Pre-existence is accepted, the literal fatherhood of God acknowledged, then the logic of the situation forces the compelling truth, that there's "a mother there" as well as a father, else children could not be begotten in any world. Law is law and may not be violated in the heavens any more than on the earth. Enveloped with this great new thought Sister Snow puts the question in her own clear, inimitable way: "In the heavens are parents single? No, the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there." GUIDE LESSONS 489 This question is one of the outstanding questions of literature and perhaps takes rank with that sublime question in the New Testament, "What is truth?' Then comes a question prompted by the natural yearning of the heart: "When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high? Then, at length, when I've completed All you sent me forth to do, With your mutual approbation Let me come and dwell with you." The poet has gone the whole round from the pre-existent state 'to the immortal abode where men with gods may dwell. The hymn is in simple English without embellishment. It is great because of the simplicity of its expression and the eternal truths which it unfolds and embodies. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give a brief sketch of the life of Eliza R. Snow. 2. Name the authors of "Nearer my God to Thee" and "One Sweetly Solemn Thought." 3. Explain how the Latter-day Saints idea of heaven is in sharp contrast to the idea of heaven held for many years by persons of other creeds. 4. What is meant by the figurative expression "bright rainbows crown the tearful gloom?" 5. When we give to inanimate things the power to do the things that persons can do we personify. Show how Hope and Faith as used by our author are made to do the things that persons do, hence may be classed as personifications. 6. What do you mean by hymnology? 7. What is a good type of funeral hymn? 8. Whom do you consider Zion's best and greatest poetess? Why? 9. Explain the difference between a doctrinal hymn and a hymn of purely worshipful expression? 10. If you regard the word kindred especially effective, as used by the author in the line, "To bear a kindred spirit home," tell why? 11. List the words that suggest light in the stanza beginning, "'Tis well with the departed one." 12. Explain and expand the thought in the lines: "Ere long the resurrection day Will spread its light and truth abroad. 490 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Ere Jesus Christ will re-appear Surrounded by a glorious throng." 13. Find out how often the author has made use of the name of a flower or the words, jewel and treasure in the lesson. 14. List the three most important theological thoughts in "O, my Father." LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in October) THE PURPOSE OF PUBLIC EDUCATION Civilization develops in large measure through the accumulation of knowledge acquired by each generation and transmitted to succeeding generations. Illustrative of this is knowl- - edge of the arts of writing, reading, and arithmetic; also the sciences, physical, biological and social; and the great productions of art, music, and literature; in fact, everything that is taught in the schools and much besides. Thus it becomes one of the primary purposes of the schools to transmit to each new generation the social inheritance of the race. The simplest and most essential things are taught in the elementary school; more complex things, in the high school; and still more complex, in the college; the university, when fully developed, is the conservator of all the knowledge and scientific technical skill that has thus far been acquired by the race; the university also aims to extend this knowledge by research. A second purpose of the school is to contribute toward the physical, intellectual, and moral development of each child, that he may become a more serviceable member of society. This purpose is accomplished in part through the process of acquiring the social inheritance of the race, but this is not sufficient; attention must be given to the development of each individual by cultiation of his native abilities and formation of desirable habits. The following aspects of public school work are designed especially to this end: 1. The health education program, which aims to supplement instruction with systematic and persistent training in health habits. Here practice counts for much more than knowledge merely. It is quite possible for a student to acquire very much of the GUIDE LESSONS 491 world's store of knowledge about hygiene and, at the same time, to live quite contrary to fundamental rules of hygiene. 2. The civic education program, designed to give the kind of knowledge and intellectual power that will enable the pupil to solve social problems as they arise. This is the primary purpose of the courses in practical civics; practical means that theory is supplemented with practice in performance of simple civic duties, such as participation in "cleaning up' campaigns, improving public parks and play grounds, and making playground apparatus. 3. The character education program.. The task yet remains to give more definite form to this program. Its aims are fairly well defined—to develop a socialized conscience, a sense of social responsibility and sympathetic attitude toward fellow-men, a knowledge of their needs and a disposition to respond to these needs; in scriptural language, "Share ye one another's burdens." This phase of public school education is closely related to religious education. Its purpose can be accomplished only in cooperation with parents, church, and other community workers. Public school teachers will welcome such co-operation. QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES 1. (a) How can parents co-operate with teachers in eliminating tardiness in school attendance? (b) Why is it important to do so? 2. Why is regularity in attendance necessary to realization of the purposes of the schools? 3. (a) Why is it very important that a youth of today receive a high school education? (b) Why is it more important now than it was a generation ago? 4. What are some of the advantages of a college education? 5. Why is character education the most important purpose of public education? 6. What is the relation of character education to religious education? 7. What are the relative responsibilities of the school and the home in the character education of children? 8. In what ways may teachers and parents support each other in the character training of children? Manifestation to Mrs. Mary Hyde Woolf By Zina Y¥.. Card Mrs. Woolf was a Canadian Pioneer who lived in Cardston many years. In 1914, she came down to the Latter-day Saints Hospital for a serious operation, and after it was over her life was despaired of. She rallied, however, and for twenty-four hours felt much better. One night, after a sweet sleep, she became very restless and knew that her spirit was passing away from her body. After the spirit withdrew from the body she saw a Guide by her side who said to her, "Come with me." They traveled into far places and came repeatedly to spheres, some of which seemed very dark and then, as it were, they began to have twilight surrounding them. Through the semi-twilight she could see groups of people, many of whom bowed to her as she passed with glad reverence and respect. All were busy, but the people in the different places would bow to her as she passed by. Sometimes they were so engaged that they took no notice of her. As they rose upward from sphere to sphere, which grew lighter and more beautiful, they passed glorious mansions and spacious grounds, at length they came to a broad road bordered with trees. Through the openings of these trees came groups of people mostly women who stood respectfully some distance away with hands folded on their breasts as they bowed to her in passing. After she and her guide drew near what seemed to be the end of the road a larger group of women awaited her coming. These hastened toward her and met her with open arms and smiling faces. In an ecstasy of joy they held her as their friend and Savior. She felt. She could never depart from them so great was her happiness. The guide read her thoughts and said, "You must return for a brief season." Reluctantly, she turned away to obey the messenger. As they took their departure she turned to the guide and asked him, who were the beings that met her and did not approach her? He replied, "These are your kindred still in prison." "And who were those," she asked, "who came close to me and bowed reverently but still did not offer to speak or reach out their hands?" "These are they," he replied, "whose names you have re- MANIFESTATION TO MRS. WOOLF. 493 corded in your book and they rejoice at the prospects of their deliverance but their work in the temple has not been done." "And those who embraced me?" she asked. "They are those," he replied, "who have received at your hands all of the ordinances in the house of the Lord, and you beheld their joy. She returned to the earth with her guide and took up her work for a little season, but passed away a little while ago, and one wonders if her kindred will remember the work which she - charged them to do. Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market WILL "LAST A LIFE TIME—36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this oceasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City Going to Entertain at Dinner? Let us enter your order and deliver it in a manner that will cause you to also give us your future orders—daily. "DICKINSON'S" The Quality Service Store. CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES. We are in step with the declining Market. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling NOTICE The Relief Society Magazine Office is desirous of securing the following Magazines of 1915, 1916, 1917, 1919 and 1920. If you have them please notify us by postcard and tell us how many of the copies you have. June, 1915 August, 1916 July, 1915 September, 1917 August, 1915 November, 1919 September, 1915 March, 1919 December, 1915 March, 1920 We will pay 20c per copy for any of the alte Only perfect copies will be accepted. Write to:; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah 680 East 2nd South Street. W. R. McDONALD, Pres. Hyland 60. D. H. CANNON Mgr. Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month for the Past Ten Months One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have you seen it? Dependable The Deseret ews Progressive The Utah State National Bank The officers ue always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with thera. Officers Heser J. Grant, President. Cartes W. Niscey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Alvin C. Strone, Assistant Cashier. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. é' The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following BOUND VOLUMES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of which they will be glad to dispose at the prices quoted below: 12 Vols. Of 1915, Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1918, Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols of 1919, Cloth Bound 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919, Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920, Cloth Bound 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920, Leather B'd 3.00 l5c Extra for Postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Bound volumes of the Magazine make appropriate gifts. Keeley’s Ice Ceram For the “Good old Summer time” DELIVERED EVERYWHERE P.O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Phone Was. 3223 DELIVERED EVERYWHERE P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Watch for Our New "Mountaineer" Strong Seam Overalls, Auto Suits Kiddies Allovers For Boys, Youths and Men—they den't rip; wear like leather. Have You Received Your Copy? Send for the special circular published by the Utah Agricultural College outlining the comprehensive work offered in education and pedagogy, with emphasis on training for the rural teachers. It will tell you the wonderful opportunities open to you at the College when the Fall Quarter begins, Monday, September 12. At the same time, send for the 1921-22 General Catalog and the beautiful illustrated circular issued by the Institution. Address, The President's Office, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. FALL QUARTER OPENS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 The Utah Agricultural College The Home of Efficient Education LOGAN, UTAH A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language—a language understood by everybody. Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"—the kind they make at Lumiere Studio Phone Was. 2861 6 Main St., Salt Lake — ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTEA-DAY SAINTS Soom 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—I5c Single Copy. VOLUME VIII SEPTEMBER, 1921 NUMBER 9 L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS The Sign of Quality GARMENTS The Sign of Comfort Brand If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list end send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. Style Price 1 Special Summer weight........$1.25 24 Unbranded special, light wt. 1.25 15 Bleached spring needle gauze 1.75 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached.... 2.25 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached.. 2.00 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached 2.50 Style Price 90 Cotton, heavy wt. Unbleached 2.50 50 Lisle, gauze wt., bleached... 2.65 107 Merino wool, medium wt..... 3.75 109 Merino wool, heavy weight... 4.25 65 Mercerized, It. Wt., bleached 3.75 305 Australian wool, It. Wt........ 6.00 1922 Pure Glove Silk...12.00 We make BATHING SUITS. Ask for what you want—we will fit you. Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 Main St. Salt Lake City BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices Call at our Burial Clothes Department 22 Bishop's Building Prompt attention given all out of town orders TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop. $100.00  For this Beauty Take 15 Months to Pay Daynes Beebe Music Co 61-3-5 Main St OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH Have you a ring or pin with the Birthstone for Sept? If not, write or call on W. M. McCONAHAY The Reliable Jeweler 64 So. Main St. Phone W. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah Latter-Day Saints Garments a, LABEL IN EACH GARMENT APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. 104 Light Summer Weight (Bleached).........$1.25 111 Light weight, cotton................ 1.50 120 Light weight, bleached.......... 1.65 160 Medium weight, cotton........ 1.75 122 Medium weight, bleached... 190 Heavy weight, cotton............ 2.50 124 Heavy weight, bleach 150 Extra white Mercs 116 Heavy wool, mixed 4.00 2.00 118 Extra heavy wool.................. 5.00 MODEL KNITTING WORKS No. 657 Iverson St. Salt Lake City, Utah What Do Your Children Read? Guiding children in their reading is a big, vital problem. There are so man. Wholesome, inspiring volumes that you cannot afford to let them read anything trashy or cleap. Co-operate with our Juvenile Department. Let us suggest Books that are high class, Books that meet the personal tastes, adapted to vatious ages. Write for liets. Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street Ladies Tailoring and Dressmaking Alterations reasonable. 715 So. 8th E. Hy. 4152-W. Send your hemstitching, accordeon plaiting, buttons and dry cleaning by parcel post. Quick Service. Salt Lake's Leading Opticians LOUIS A. JAMES and DONALD C. JAMES OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS Globe Optical Company East 2nd South (Walker Bank Bldg.) Salt Lake City. Utah The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS SEPTEMBER, 1921 Elijah Allen and Family.............Frontispiece ~ Life's Little Day......Ida R. Alldredge 495 # Church School Education............. Susa Young Gates 497 = Preserving the Faith of Our Fathers and Mothers.......Adam Bennion 502 ¢ Church Support of Education............ John A. Widtsoe 508 A Great Church University-............. F. S. Harris  The Mothers and the Church Schools..... Zina Young Card B. Y. U. Family of Educated and Educators............ BIL. Out of the World..... G. Milton Babcack 517 Notes from the Field................ Amy Brown Lyman 575 From the Watch Tower........... Laura Moench Jenkins 530 From Zion to Jerusalem......32 World Happenings........James H. Anderson 534 Editorial: No man*can be Saved in Ignorance....... 537 Who-Needs Me?.......539 Dress Reform..540 Guide Lessons for November..........542 ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Read Our Advertisements and Find Out Where to Trade BUREAU OF INFORMATION, Temple Block, Salt Lake City, Utah. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY, 305 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. - DICKINSON'S, 680 East Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. DRUGLESS HEALTH INSTITUTE, Logan, Utah. THE DESERET NEWS, Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. GLOBE OPTICAL CO., East Second South, Salt Lake City, Utah. KEELEY'S, Salt Lake City, Utah. LUMIERE STUDIO, Salt Lake City, Utah, 6 Main St. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah: MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Otha Pi ll BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT, Bishop's Building Sali ake City. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main 'St., Salt Ines City. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City, Utah. Z. C. M. I., Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah. LIFE'S LITTLE DAY Oh how pleasant and how lovely Is the dawn of each new day, When the earth wakes from her slumbers And all nature's fresh and gay; It is then the birds sing sweetest, And the lambkins frisk and play; It is then the heart is lightest, Ere the toils and cares of day. All too soon the morn has left us, And the noontide comes along Bringing with it many duties For the ever busy throng; Then each heart must take new courage, As the hours glide along, For there's much that must be finished Ere the day is passed and gone. But how peaceful is the evening © When the sun sinks out of sight, When the little stars are twinkling And the moon sends forth its light; When the many tasks are over And there's time for rest and quiet, And dear mem'ries take possession, Ere we slumber through the night. So in life—first comes sweet childhood, With its love and joy complete, All too soon youths time is over, For life's duties we must meet; Then will come the peaceful evening ' When we'll rest our weary feet ' While our fancy takes us backward Where old age will childhood meet. Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Ida R, Alldredge SEE PAGE 513 ELIJAH ALLEN AND FAMILY. THE Relief Society Magazine SEPTEMBER, 1921 No. 9 Church School Education ' By Susa Young Gates. More and more the people of this Church should carefully and prayerfully consider just how, just when, and just where they shall educate their boys and girls. No more important question than this looms up for our present day consideration. The Church has spent hundreds of thousands. Of dollars, in the past half century, both to erect buildings, equip departments, and to pay salaries to the faithful teachers who have made and who still do make many sacrifices to remain in the employ of the various Church schools scattered from Canada to Mexico. The thoughtless may ask, "Why spend money? The state and the government are both able and quite willing to take upon themselves this heavy financial burden, and therefore why should this people tax themselves and the Church for this purpose?" These are pertinent questions; and it is the purpose of this article, together with the communications obtained from some of our leading educators, to answer the questions and to lay before our readers the facts in the case. It is interesting to know that nearly all of the great schools and universities of this country, as well as of Europe, were started by religious bodies, with the same avowed purpose which lay at the root of Brigham Young's determination to provide education which should not only train the mind, but should also train the spirit at the same time. Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Washington universities; these with Oxford and Cambridge in England, are among the famous universities which owe their birth to the religious ideals of their founders. Wise men realize. That nations established on the high moral and spiritual planes which form the teachings of the Christian Bible are the only safe and sane foundations that shall make stable and sure the life and perpetuity of nations and peoples. A party of distinguished 498 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Chinese came not long since to America to study the life-results of a nation which was founded on modern religious ideals. Stopping only in New England and Utah they explained to the Utah scholar who piloted them about our city, that only New England and Utah were so pioneered. And further, they said, that their own nation, established by Confucius, on ethics alone, was fast disintegrating and rotting at the core. It is true that American and English universities have long ago relaxed their stern vigilance over the individual beliefs and characters of those who attended the schools. Men, of course, must be honorable and acceptable in the worldly sense who attend these famous institutions, but their religion and their morals, in so far as chastity is concerned, are not enquired into. Most of them have so-called Divinity Colleges attached to their regular courses where religious education on broad lines may be obtained. Then, there are various and many religious colleges and Academies scattered throughout the land. Most of the sects possess such schools, where their preachers and divines are educated for the ministry. But it must also be stated that the daily study and programs of all of these leading universities is absolutely free of any religious teaching or bias. Rather is their boast that all sects and creeds find a broad tolerance that fosters the agnostic attitude rather than any debatable religious teachings. It is to be hoped that our own schools will never be so liberal. Catholics, who have far more virility than any other modern sect, even more than the ubiquitous Jew, refuse countenance to those who school their children in any but approved institutions. Why, therefore, should we take serious thought concerning Church school education? What is this thing we call education anyway? Is it obtained only in schools and from books? Hardly. If that were so, all the founders of this Church from the prophet Joseph Smith down to our present president and leader, Heber J. Grant, would be termed uneducated, and unlearned. Orson Pratt was one of the greatest of modern mathematicians and philosophers; and yet, small education had he in schools or from books. So with the Prophet, with Brigham Young, and with those great and learned men who surrounded them. Education is gained by study, of books, yes, but also by study of men, and of nature in all its forms. Books are merely the opinions of men who have studied things out in various ways. Books and teachers give us help in crossing over from the land of ignorance to the land of learning. We could go on foot, others have done so, and are doing so every day; but if we can find a shorter way, or get a lift into some fast vehicle we can save time and vitality CHURCH SCHOOL EDUCATION 499 by that lift. That is all that schools and books do for us. They give us a lift by the way. In accepting a lift, however, we should be extremely careful that the driver is safe, the auto is sound, and that our fellow passengers are neither drunk nor afflicted with contagious diseases. We would better walk than to be led through the swamps and miasmas of doubt, despair, unbelief, or to be insulated with double standards of virtue.
Schools of today as of ancient times, teach all that is known of the arts and the sciences. They give little children small problems, little mental tasks, and primitive lessons which combine concrete and practical examples along with deep, fundamental truths. As the child advances he receives more difficult problems, more complex reasonings, but each is connected by a little thread with the simple lessons he got at the primary grades. In college and in the university, he is not only given the newest and best thoughts—of others—in arts and sciences, but he is also encouraged to think out for himself new lines of endeavor, and to develop original branches of research. He himself is studied and he is encouraged to study life from the physical, the moral and the intellectual angle. He has his courses of study, his curriculum arranged so as to develop him along these three lines. But his religious life is left entirely to his home or to his church, if he has any.
Some may ask, what is the difference between the moral and the spiritual? A simple answer is that the study of morals or ethics is the study of manners and behavior; while religion is the study of God and his laws. In other words, ethics comprises the relationships of man to man, while religion takes up our relationship to God. All the arts, all the sciences fall into the three divisions of physical, moral and intellectual progress.
It is a known fact that science does not agree with the world's religious teachings. At least, with the religious teachings outside this Church. Neither does art, in a certain sense. All the more reason why we should study art and science by the light of pure revelation. Books which have been written and teachers who have been trained in other religions and therefore in other schools than ours disagree with us in many fundamental points. For instance: they teach that revelation is impossible today. We know better. They answer any statement of ours concerning the Prophet's first vision, by saying, that it was a delusion, a hallucination. We know better. They teach that there is no divine authority on the earth, and no Priesthood which gives men the right to administer in the ordinances of the gospel—that is, all but the Catholics teach this last, and we know better. They all, every
500 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
one of them, Catholics, Protestants and Agnostics, teach that there is no such thing as a pre-existent state, especially as regards our having had a distinct personality or ego before we came on this earth. We know better. They teach that there is no family association after death, and we know better. They teach that marriage is for this life only. We know better. They do not believe in the visitation of angels, nor do they accept for one moment the idea of present day revelation. We know that this, too, is false.
Faith is to the scientist a necessary part of his own experiments, but is scoffed at as a religious belief. Scientists pick up first one theory and then another, announce it with a flourish of trumpets, with some cautious holdbacks, but with sufficient assurance to knock any one's wavering faith into small bits—and then they sometimes discover that, after all, they were wrong. See the fuss that has been made about evolution— now the most sanguine scientists are ready to admit that evolution after all has been carried too far, and that most of its doctrines are untenable. So with many other faith-destroying teachings. Science knows nothing but what can be proved, and yet must start out with some faith—hypothesis, they call it,—and then the philosopher goes merrily on to build up great theories out of his faith, or hypothesis. Of course, science has done many marvelous things; but science should be founded on truth; for right science and right faith can never disagree. So that when we set our youths to study philosophy they should have their feet firmly planted on the rock of revelation, and let all truth be measured by that standard.
The Catholic church, knowing the vast dangers that await the youthful student, prepares all its own text-books, censors all its studies, and even censors the daily papers and novels allowed to the orthodox. We need not be thus narrow; but at least we should prepare our youths with a divine measuring rod of their own with which to weigh and measure every lesson, every book and every teacher and school room which makes a part of their daily lives.
The Church school system aims to do this, and so far, has lived up faithfully to that aim. This Church school system might be said to originate with the Prophet Joseph Smith; for, in Nauvoo, as told by Bancroft, the historian: 'There was a University established, though having no separate edifices." This was in 1843. 'The president of the university and professor of mathematics and English literature is James Kelly, a graduate of Trinity College, Dublin, and a ripe scholar; Orson Pratt, a man of pure mind and high order of ability, who, without early education and amidst great difficulties, had to achieve learning as best he could, and in truth has achieved it; professor of languages, Orson Spencer, gradu-
CHURCH SCHOOL EDUCATION — 501
ate of Union College, and the Baptist Theological Seminary, New York; professor of church history, Sidney Rigdon, versed in history, belles-lettres, and oratory. In the board of regents we find the leading men of the Church; connected with the university were four common-school wards, with three wardens to each."
Then came the pioneer schools of Utah. And, by the year 1870, the completion of the railroads and the influx of non- "Mormons" into the territory made President Brigham Young feel that we should have our own Church schools and he proceeded to put his inspiration into active operation, as he always did. So, by 1873, he established the school at Provo, which bears his name. One was started at Logan, and one projected in Salt Lake, but was not made possible because of his death at that time, 1877. From these schools have gone out the men and women who stand at the head of nearly every ward, stake, auxiliary organization, and even of the general quorums of the Church.
The counsel which Karl G. Maeser, that greatest of all our educators, received from President Young when he went down to open the first Church school in Provo, was simple and forceful—it embodies the genius of Church-school teaching; said he to Brother Maeser: "Don't try to teach the multiplication table without the Spirit of the Lord." There is the key-note. Nothing, ever so great or ever so small, shall be passed on to our children that is not informed and inspired by the Spirit of all truth, all wisdom; that wisdom which comes by prayer and the authority of the priesthood.
It is interesting to know that the first industrial education projected in this country came out of the B. Y. Academy, as it was then called. In the deed of trust, President Young directed that "every pupil should be taught some branch of mechanism"— quaint word—in addition to his intellectual training. Then, too, the first musical department known in this country to be attached to a school was begun in this school in 1878. Again, the first matron, and the first ladies' Art Department was opened there, in 1878-9. The pioneer school hygiene was instituted there by Dr. M. H. Hardy, in 1879. The Domestic Science work was introduced there in 1892, just after the opening of our state Agricultural College. So that this school has pioneered the way in many vital directions. We may well believe that inspiration has marked Church schools from the beginning.
Another important phase of our Church education that is rarely mentioned but which is very important to women, is the fact that never has there been any bar to the highest training. For women in any of these institutions. From the days of the
502 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Nauvoo university there has been no sex-division. That also marks us as pioneers. For no school in the world beyond the primary grade at that time admitted girls to equal rank with boys in the higher grades, Today, our schools have entered into another phase of evolution, correct evolution at that. We see them forging forward, under the vigorous young leadership appointed by the authorities, and we may feel sure that there is much history to be written in the next decade of our Church schools.
Preserving the Faith of Our Fathers and Mothers By Adam S. Bennion.
"Righteousness exalteth a nation: but sin is a reproach to any people." Proverbs 14:34.
History bears record that in this proverb Solomon declared a mighty truth—a truth which challenges the attention of the world today. The question whether we are leaning more toward sin than righteousness these days floods the press from one end of America to the other. Without attempting to settle that question we may safely conclude that because of the spiritual indifference of men and women generally, the call now being sounded throughout our country urging a return to religious principles is at least timely.
Every newspaper is a chronicle of crime. Fashion is at war with modesty. From accounts published depicting life at our seaside resorts one might naturally conclude that they are a strange mixture of salt water and social indecency. Our nation has been alarmed for years over the problem of the dance. Divorce becomes more and more a national menace with such a state as Idaho recording one divorce for every five marriages. Our Juvenile Courts handled last year in the United States more than 175,000 cases, to say nothing of the cases which kept safely just outside the courts. Alarming as are these figures, there is a question whether we should not be still more alarmed because of the religious and spiritual indifference that threatens even graver dangers to future generations. The matter is brought forcefully home to every Latter-day Saint when he is informed that of all our young
PRESERVING THE FAITH OF OUR FATHERS — 503
people who married last year a large proportion married outside the Church. We may hope for conversions in many of these cases, of course, but the facts sound two unmistakable warnings: clearly we are not stamping upon all of our young people the ideals of their forefathers and just as clearly we are laying therefore a foundation for religious indifference that is alarming.
That these dangers confront us, everybody admits. Our concern lies in the proper remedy. The problem is so complex that no one prescription will likely be an adequate solution. But this article, in keeping with the spirit of the press generally, is a plea, as a partial solution at least, for a return to the religious ideals of our fathers. There is grave danger that we are withdrawing too far from God. Material things—a mad rush for wealth and position, have pushed Him farther and farther from our thoughts. Our leading national and world characters have always cautioned us to cling to our Pilgrim heritage of an abiding trust in God. I was struck by the fact that President Harding, in his inauguration speech, led us back to this basic religious duty: "He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?" Micah 6:8.
Note the admonition of such eminent men as the following relative to our knowing the Bible as the message of God to his children:
Ex-president Woodrow Wilson says: "A man has deprived himself of the best there is in the world who has deprived himself of an intimate knowledge of the Bible. "I ask of every man and woman in this audience that, from this night on, they will realize that part of the destiny of America lies in their daily perusal of this great book of revelation—that if they would see America free and pure they will make their own spirits free and pure by this baptism of the Holy Scriptures."
John Ruskin, English art critic and author says: "Whatever I have done in my life has simply been due to the fact that when I was a child my mother daily read with me a part of the Bible and daily made me learn a part of it by heart. And truly, though I have picked up a little further knowledge—in mathematics, meteorology and the like, in after life, and owe not a little to the teaching of many people, this material installation of my mind in that property of chapters I count very confidentially the most precious and, on the whole, the one essential part of my education, For the chapters became strictly conclusive and protective to me in all modes of thought and in the body of Divinity they contain."
Theodore Roosevelt says: "The immense moral influence of the Bible though of course infinitely the most important, is not the only factor it has for good. In addition there is the increasing influence it exerts on the side of good taste, of good literature, or proper sense of proportion of simple, straight forward writing and speaking and thinking. No man can afford to be ignorant of the Bible."
Viscount James Bryce of England, in 1914, said: "It is with great
504 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
regret that one sees in these days that knowledge of the Bible seems declining in all classes of the community. I was struck with the same thing in the United States. Looking at it from the educational side only, the loss of a knowledge of the Bible and of all that the Bible means would be incalculable to the life of the country. It would be a great misfortune if generations of children grew up who did not know their Bible.";
U. S. Grant says: "Hold fast to the Bible as the sheet anchor of your liberties; write its precepts upon your hearts and practice them in your lives. To the influence of this book we are indebted for the progress made in true civilization, and to this we must look as our guide in the future."
George Washington in his Farewell Address says: "Of all the dispositions that lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are the indispensable supports—and let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion, Whatever can be conceded to the influence of refined education on minds of peculiar structure, reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principle."
Charles Edward Pugh, in Moral Training in the Public Schools, p. 10: "The Hebrew race and the Bible have been the two mightiest forces in the moral uplift of mankind, and until the teacher is as free to use the inspiring and instructive literature of the Bible as she is to use the Iliad and the Koran and the poetry of the other races, we are limiting the teacher in the use of efficient means of moral training.";
Abraham Lincoln says: "The Bible is the best book that God has given to man."
One of the most inspirational books of 1920 is Fundamentals of Prosperity, by Roger W. Babson. He speaks not as an evangelist but as a statistician and business man. Again and again he declares that the great need of America today is more Faith—a more solid religious foundation for the great structure of civilization which we are destined to build. The concluding page of the book is significantly striking:
"Just before I went to Brazil I was the guest of the President of the Argentine Republic., After lunching one day we sat in his sun parlor looking out over the river. He was very thoughtful. He said, 'Mr. Babson, I have been wondering why it is that South America with all its great natural advantages is so far behind North America notwithstanding that South America was settled before North America.' Then he went on to tell how the forests of South America had two hundred and eighty-six trees that can be found in no book of botany. He told me about many ranches that had thousands of acres under alfalfa in one block, He mentioned the mines of iron, coal, copper, silver, gold; all those great rivers and waterpowers which rival Niagara. 'Why is it, with all these natural resources, South America is so far behind North America?' he asked. Well, those of you who have been there know the reason. But, being a guest, I said: "Mr. President, what do you think is the reason?'
"He replied: 'I have come to this conclusion. South America was settled by the Spanish who came to South America in search of gold, but North America was settled by the Pilgrim Fathers who went there in search of God."
PRESERVING THE FAITH OF OUR FATHERS — 505
"Friends, let us, as American citizens, never kick down the ladder by which we climbed up. Let us never forget the foundation upon which all permanent prosperity is based."
One of the strongest speeches made during the N. E. A. Convention, at Atlantic City, last February, was a plea for the giving of proper place in our public school teaching to a consideration of those religious principles upon which in the last analysis civilization rests. Recently Dr. Gardiner of New York was in Salt Lake City in the interest of the Educational work of the Episcopal Church in America. He aims to make it possible for every Episcopal child to receive religious training as he goes through the public school.;
It is significant that today more than two hundred of the leading institutions of learning in America recognize toward graduation credit earned in a study of the Bible. Among those institutions are such names as Columbia University, Brown University, the University of Chicago, the University of Notre Dame, the University of Iowa, Boston University, Colgate University. Purdue University, and Smith, Mount Holyoke, Oberlin, Carleton, Bowdoin, Dartmouth, Hartford, and Randolph-Macon College, and the University of Rochester.
Fortunately we have in our Church the means whereby these desirable objectives may easily be achieved. For years past our young men and women who have attended our Church Schools have received daily instruction in theology—have been trained in their relationship with God and in the obligations to live up to Christian ideals. For a number of years at least ten thousand young Latter-day Saints have caught the spirit of the gospel in the institutions of learning maintained by the Church. Schools have been operated in representative centers as indicated in the following list:
B. Y. University, Provo, Utah. B. Y. College, Logan, Utah. Big Horn Academy Cowley, Wyo. Cassia Stake Academy, Oakley, Idaho. Emery Stake Academy, Castle Dale, Utah. Fielding Academy, Paris Idaho. Gila Academy, Thatcher, Arizona. Knight Academy, Raymond, Alta, Canada, L. D. S. University, Salt Lake City, Utah. Murdock Academy Beaver, Utah. Millard Academy, Hinckley Utah. Oneida Stake Academy. Preston Idaho. Ricks Normal College, Rexburg, Idaho. San Luis Academy, Manassa, Colorado, Snowflake Academy, Snowflake, Arizona,
506. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Dixie Normal College, St. George, Utah. St. Johns Academy, St. Johns, Arizona, Uintah Academy, Vernal, Utah. Weber Normal College, Ogden, Utah, Snow Normal College, Ephraim, Utah.
Next year three of these institutions will be converted into public schools, it being thought advisable to discontinue in part at least the giving of high school training which the state is so well able to provide, and center our efforts more on the training of teachers and on the providing of religious instruction for more of our young people than can be reached through our schools. The Seminary promises to be the institution which will make this instruction more and more generally possible. If present plans are carried out there will be seminaries operated in each of the centers named below:
Afton, Wyoming. Mesa, Arizona, American Fork, Utah. Montpelier, Idaho. Blackfoot, Idaho. Mt, Pleasant, Utah. Blanding, Utah. Murray, Utah. Brigham City, Utah. Nephi, Utah. Chandler, Arizona. Pleasant Grove, Utah. Fillmore, Utah. Provo, Utah. Salt Lake City, Utah. Richfield, Utah. Heber, Utah, Richmond, Utah. Huntington, Utah. Roosevelt, Utah. Hyrum, Utah. Rigby, Idaho. Jordan, Sandy Utah. Salina, Utah, Kanab, Utah. Oakley, Idaho. Kaysville, Utah.; St. Johns, Arizona. Lehi, Utah. Driggs, Idaho. Manti, Utah. Moroni, Utah.
These seminaries are presided over by expert teachers of theology—men well trained and eminently fitted to be the spiritual advisers of our boys and girls. In these institutions students will find daily the complement to their regular high school studies. The seminary is so operated that all high school students can elect, as they do their regular high school work, a course in theology. They simply go over to the seminary instead of going into a high school class room. Courses are offered in Old Testament, New Testament and Church History and Doctrine. The Seminary Principals have spent the first six weeks of this summer perfecting the outlines to be used in these various courses and have worked out one of the best contributions yet made to our study of theological problems.
Surely every Latter-day Saint parent should urge his children to enroll as Seminary students. As such they will acquire a religious background for their lives. Boys and girls will be
PRESERVING THE FAITH OF OUR FATHERS — 507
trained for ward and missionary service. More than that they will be inspired with ideals of life that will lead them safely past the temptations of youth and will make of them parents who can build homes where the spirit and teachings of the Lord can attend the nurture of the unborn spirits on whom the responsibility of carrying on this great work will rest in another generation.
Fancy the child who, denied the companionship of parents, should go out into the world to face its problems without the cautioning counsel of the fireside. And yet there are hundreds of children—children of the Lord—at large in the world who have never been taught to counsel with him. The world suffers today because they have stumbled in paths that might have been made light by his Holy Spirit.
President Hale, of Boise, relates the following inspirational experience. A child, sitting on its father's knee, was driving the auto when the mother from the rear seat observed, "O, you can drive the car, can't you?" "Yes," said the child, "When papa's hand is on the wheel." As we set forth in our machines toward eternity let us make sure that the Father's hand is on the wheel. Let us keep him near by keeping near to him. Both the Church school and the Seminary offer an excellent opportunity for our boys and girls to keep close to him and to study and understand his work and his salvation.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR UNITED STATES RECLAMATION SERVICE WASHINGTON, D. C.
FARMS FOR EX-SERVICE MEN
On September 9th, 222 farms will be opened to homestead entry by soldiers of the World War, on the North Platte Irrigation Project, Wyoming, and one week later, September 16th, 57 farms will be thrown open under the Shoshone Project in the same state. About 19,000 acres of land are included in the two openings. For sixty days no one but soldiers of the World War will be permitted to make filings on these farms. Crops to the value of over $1,000,000 were produced in 1920 on about 45,000 acres Soldiers who are interested in the land are invited to investigate the opportunities offered by these openings. Detailed information concerning the farms and the method of applying for them may be secured by writing to the Project Manager, U. S. R. S., Mitchell, Nebr., about the North Platte project, to the Project Manager, Powell, Wyoming, concerning the Shoshone opening, or to the U. S. Reclamation Service, Washington, D. C,
Church Support of Education John A, Widtsoe.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is essentially an educational organization. Its mission is to know the gospel, and to teach it to all the world, since all correct knowledge may find its place in the gospel system. There can be no domain of truth which may not be explored or taught by the members of the Church. Moreover, the gospel, which comprehends all truth and all time, can best be known and taught by those whose minds have been developed, within or without schools. The Church has always been committed to education, and has been and is friendly to all honest institutions of learning.
The great love of the "Mormon" people for education is nowhere better shown than in the record attendance of students of the Utah Agricultural College and the University of Utah, in both of which institutions "Mormon" students overwhelmingly predominate. Both of these schools have the largest attendance in their respective classes, when compared with other states and with the population of our own state.
It is only natural that a Church so thoroughly committed to education should have established, and does now maintain, schools, that are wholly under its control. The work of the Church is extensive and varied; the special training for many forms of Church service can be secured only in schools under Church control. Then, it is a vital need in a church with the mission of the "Mormon" Church to maintain in many places and of easy access, institutions where the characteristic spirit of the Church lives and shines brightly and may be absorbed by the young. Moreover, there are thousands of Latter-day Saints to whom the gospel is the dearest thing on earth, and for which they have made tremendous sacrifices. Such parents want to instil into the minds and souls of their children the full meaning of the gospel, and they desire therefore to send them to a Church school. Finally, the present educational custom of our land is to ignore religion. This is perhaps the chief weakness of the system of American education. The time, perhaps, should never come when religion is taught in our public institutions supported by public funds, but the public schools must come to a time when they will recognize the need for religious training and allow credit for such work done, and provide time periods during which stu-
CHURCH SUPPORT OF EDUCATION — 509
dents may go out to places provided by the churches, to secure religious instruction. When state schools become more liberal in this respect, there will be less need of private, church-maintained schools. Today, however, it would be a calamity to eliminate our Church schools.
Meanwhile, excellent instructions are offered in many Church schools. Those who, for one or another reason, feel impelled to support the Church schools will find available almost everything that the student may desire. There is no competition between Church and state schools. It is a well known maxim in education that the more provisions which are made for education, the more young people become interested in schools, Latter-day Saints should encourage their children to secure the best education of the day; for our people, in knowledge and understanding, must be as a light upon a hill— and when schools are considered, our excellent Church schools should be given full consideration.
A Great Church University By F. S. Harris, President Brigham Young University.
As a university with equipment and a faculty that will place it in the front ranks of the great universities of the world; the intellectual center of our Church, prepared to give our young men and young women the best training for service and leadership which the world has to offer: such an institution have the General Authorities decided to make of the Brigham Young University.
Its big work is to be the training of our young people for leadership in its highest forms; leadership in the Church itself; leadership in social affairs, leadership in intellectual affairs, leadership in business, leadership in art, leadership in citizenship, in fact leadership in all that will contribute to the betterment of the world and the happiness of its people.
If the most important contributors to our present civilization were listed we would find that religion would, head the list, and yet in our great national educational system which we Americans are now looking to for the preservation of this great civilization, religion has been left almost entirely out. In the last few years the world has begun to realize that this is a great mistake. Even cold-hearted business has been forced to recognize the necessity of religion in its makeup. Roger W. Babson, one of the most eminent statisticians and business analysts in the country, recently issued a statement in which he said:
510 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"The need of the hour is not more factories or materials, not more railroads or steamships, not more armies or more navies, but rather more education based on the plain teachings of Jesus.—Religion, like everything else of value, must be taught. It is possible to get more religion in industry and business only through the development of Christian education and leadership. With the forces of evil backed by men and money, systematically organized to destroy, we must back with men and money all campaigns for Christian education.—The safety of our sons and daughters, as they go out on the streets this very night, is due to the influence of the preachers rather than to the influence of the policemen and lawmakers. Yes, the safety of our nation including all groups, depends on Christian education. Furthermore, at no time in our history has it been more greatly needed—As the great life insurance companies are spending huge sums on doctors, scientific investigations, and district nurses to improve the health of the nation, so we business men should spend huge sums to develop those fundamental religious qualities of integrity, industry, faith, and service, which make for true prosperity."
To the people of our Church, Mr. Babson's point of view is not a new one. "Mormonism," has always been more than a Sunday religion; it has permeated every phase of our activities from the pioneering of a wild country and the building of irrigation systems down to the most common business transactions. The success of our people in this work has caused the world to marvel. The secret of it is religion. If the same success is to be attained in the future we must train our leaders not only in the arts, sciences, and industries but also in religious, intellectual, and social leadership. This is to be the work of the Brigham Young university.
It is impossible, of course, to train all of the people of the Church in a single institution, but there must be trained the leaders of the various community activities. To do this we must have an institution that is second to none in the world. It does not need to be large, but its standards must be high. We may not need a large faculty, but it must be made up of men and women of unquestioned integrity and loyalty to the principles of truth and righteousness. The institution must be able to select for its service the most capable and best trained men and women of the Church wherever they are found.
We must build at the University a great library. It must contain the best of the world's publications dealing with the lines of work in which the institution specializes. It must receive regularly the best of the technical journals containing current information that will be of service to the different departments. This library must be so superior that it will become a mecca for those seeking information on themes related to "Mormonism."
The working equipment of the institution must be of the best. The B. Y. U. Cannot at present attempt to teach every sub-
A GREAT CHURCH UNIVERSITY — 511
ject included in the curricula of all the schools of the country, but for such work as it decides to give it must be prepared, with the most modern apparatus, to give work equal to that in any institution in the land.
The service of the institution is not to be confined to the classroom. Through its extension division it will carry its usefulness to the communities throughout the Church. Missionary training, leadership in Priesthood Quorums, Mutual Improvement Associations, Sunday Schools, Religion Classes, Relief Societies, Scout Troops. And every organization designed for the betterment of the people should be able to call on the University for help in getting material to be used in class work. The institution should become the center for subject matter in connection with these various organizations,
The research division of the University should foster the investigation of new truth with special emphasis on the problems that are of interest to the Church. Every instructor in any subject is better if he is doing some research, and it is with the spirit of helping the various departments in their work as well as discovering new truth that a division of research will be maintained.; Time will be required to build the kind of institution which so many of our people have been hoping to see established, but now that the plan has been definitely outlined by the Church authorities, the growth of the Brigham Young University will, as in the past, surpass the fondest hopes of the most optimistic of its thousands of admirers and friends, The principal of a grade school at Long Beach, Calif., recently made this statement to his pupils: "In our family are nine brothers. Five of us are school teachers and have never used tobacco in any way. The other four all use tobacco, Two began it in grammar school, and never finished their grades. One began in high school, and did not finish his second year there. One did not begin smoking until his first year in college, and he did not finish his second year in college. The five of us who are teachers all graduated from grammar school, from high school and from college. All nine of us brothers had the same chance for schooling, and all enjoyed the same home privileges." Will H. Brown, Oakland, Calif. The Mothers and the Church Schools Zina Young Card. Wonderful indeed is the influence of the Church schools upon the lives and characters of the children of our people. We find, as a self-evident fact, that next to the home life, the schools our children attend, have the greatest influence in the formation of their characters for the battles of life. The greatest and most important point stands out boldly, and is pre-eminently the converting of our children to the principles of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. From visits recently paid by me to the leading Church schools, I find they are the peers of other schools, in the teaching of hygiene, ethics, meciuanical arts, domestic science, and domestic arts. A few of our advanced schools, have business departments that vie successfully with other business schools that specialize in that alone. From actual contact and intimate knowledge, the fact stands out in bold relief, that a more competent, intelligent and conscientious class of men and women can not be found in the halls of learning than those who grace the schools of our Church. This widespread diffusion of knowledge upon these vital subjects, has borne fruit, by preparing the minds of the rising generation, for great responsibilities of active service and cheerful sacrifice. Those who are called upon to fill responsible places in our wonderful organizations if they have been trained in Church schools will be well prepared. Dear| mothers, do you realize what the Church schools mean to you and your children. If you don't, go and visit them, and see for yourself, study the spiritual side of their education which is the science of living, the true and better life. Go with your girls into the gymnasiums and view with delight the won-. Derful systematic training given for the development of their beautiful bodies, that they might be qualified for their future missions as wives and mothers, with intelligent minds and strong bodies, for hygiene, properly applied, will give them this knowledge.: As mothers we know we cannot give what we haven't got, but the crowning source of instruction is the religious training given to the youthful and plastic minds of our precious children, THE MOTHERS AND THE CHURCH SCHOOLS 513 the powers to see and understand the principles of life and salvation. Do you know why the Church schools were established? The system was revealed to the prophet Brigham Young, and by him established for the salvation of the children of the Latter-day Saints. The mission of conducting these schools was given by Brigham Young into the hands of the divinely inspired Brother Karl G. Maeser and Pres. Abraham O, Smoot; and their perpetuity has been largely due to great teachers who have followed. A B. Y. U. Family of Educated ~ and Educators Education is a passion, one might say, with Latter-day Saints. It is a part of their religious creed that "no man can be saved in ignorance." As a consequence every Church organization carries on educational extension work and the Church schools are filled to overflowing with eager students. Perhaps one of the most interesting recent examples of this love for education, which exists among us, was demonstrated in the recent graduation of Elijah Allen from the law school of the University of Utah. It is not unusual for students to graduate from the law school; but it is very unusual for a man fortythree years old, with a wife and nine children, to come from Mesa, Arizona, to Salt Lake City, three years alone, leaving his highly capable wife at home to run the farm and the family while he studied law, then the fourth year bringing the wife and nine children and the two autotmobiles up to Salt Lake City, buying a home so as to save rent, putting all the nine children in school to continue their school, which was variously begun at Mesa and Phoenix, his wife taking the law lectures with her husband so that she might be companionable with him in his future activities. They had every one of the children in school at the University of Utah and the L. D. S. University, except the baby who was watched over by a kind old lady next door, at so much per. That is unusual, isn't it? But that is exactly what happened to Elijah Allen and his remarkable family. Of course Elijah Allen is himself remarkable, not only for his foresight but thrift, for he had presence of mind enough to sell part of his big cotton farm at the peak of high prices 514 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE which gave the family plenty of capital for the enterprise. Remarkable also because he has kept his mental powers bright through the exigencies of domestic and pioneer life, by study and itinerant politics and legal activity in the district in which he lived; so that when he decided to secure a Jaw degree with the accompanying classified information adding this to his mental equipment, he lost no time, no energy, and no money in carrying out his plans. All of it was in the nature of a noble investment in community finance and social futures. Even so, Elijah Allen remembered after he was there that he would have been only half what he is, and done only half what he has accomplished, were it not for the more than remarkable wife who has not only made a thorough Latterday Saint wife, mother and companion, to him and the children, but has as well kept her own mental tools sharpened through activity in the various auxiliary organizations for women of the Church, from the time she was a little girl to the present day. Both parents are human dynamos; but both engines are so nicely adjusted that there is little noise and almost no friction' in the generation of force and power. Modesty is perhaps as dominant a characteristic of both these good parents as the simple dignity with which they conduct their family and religious life. Elijah Allen is the son of Charles H. And Adelaide Hoops Allen, and he was born at Cove, Cache county, Utah, on the 22nd, Jan. 1878. He went with his parents to pioneer the Arizona country, settling in Mesa about 1882, where he lived until 1898. In that year he came to the Brigham Young Academy, as it was then called, graduating from the business college in 1901. When in school he met and fell in love with Miss Emma Pearl Nielson, who was the daughter of Eurihoff G. And Emma Meecham Nielson, who was attending the Brigham Young University at the same time. Pearl lived in the family of Jacob F. Gates, and was a second daughter to Susa Young Gates, while she helped, young as she was, to mother the children in the home, Emma Lucy, Brigham Cecil, Harvey H. And Franklin Young Gates. She was with the family when they lost two of their beautiful children, Beulah and a year later, Brigham. Elijah Allen and Pearl were married, 9th Oct., 1901, in the Salt Lake temple, soon after the graduation of both from the academy. On returning to Mesa, Elijah worked in a grocery store and later took up farming, always in more extensive ways, keeping an active hold upon public life through his devotion to his religious work. He has held all the degrees of the Priesthood, was Sunday School teacher, ward teacher, superintendent of Y. M. M. 1. A., religion class, and was finally counselor A. B. Y. U. FAMILY OF EDUCATORS 515 of Pres. James Lesueur of Maricopa stake. He acted as a counselor in the Indian mission and gave his trained business mind to the problems of that unique Lamanite activity and settlement near Phoenix and Mesa. He was also interested vitally in all educational matters and was President of the Mesa Union nightschool board. His interest in political matters brought him the offer of many offices most of which he declined, but he has served as justice of the peace and practical political head of things Republican for years. Pearl Allen has likewise held nearly every office in the organizations for women in this Church. She has been teacher and secretary of the Sunday school, secretary and treasurer of the Mesa Relief Society, president of the Papago Indian ward Relief Society, President of the Y. L. M. I. A. And of the Mesa Y. L. M. I. A. Pearl taught one year after leaving the B. Y. U.,-and has been an insatiable reader since her girlhood. She interested herself in the legal questions which came before her husband and was therefore qualified to take the law lectures for what she could obtain from them in the way of legal culture during the past year in the University of Utah. What about the remarkable children of this remarkable couple? The oldest, Pearl Allen, who is eighteen years old, has been taking a college preparatory course in the L. D. S. University; she will major the next year in English at the University of Utah; meanwhile she has taken previous courses in nursing and domestc science and oral expression by way of general culture. Eijah Cecil Allen, age seventeen, is taking the. Scientific course in the University of Utah; and Thora, age fifteen, is taking the college preparatory course, Vilate, age thirteen, is in the seventh grade; Taft, age eleven, is in the sixth grade; Friholf Allen, age nine, is in the fourth grade, while Priscilla, age seven, and Roberta, age five, are in the kindergarten. Baby Gerald remained at home under the care of the motherly woman next door while mother and the family were imbibing culture in the univerSities on the hill and in the city. Last summer Elijah packed his family into his two automobiles with camping outfit and they came to Salt Lake taking a month in which to ride at leisure through the three great national parks between Mesa and Salt Lake City; the Grand canyon, the Petrified Forest of Arizona, and Mesa Verde Park of Colorado. Be sure, even the kindergartners were fully instructed by both parents concerning the origin and history of all these great natural scenic assets. Be sure also that the simple courtesy and natural good breeding of the family made them de- 516 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE lightful companions to fellow tourists who wondered at the discreet behavior of so numerous a family, At the close of the graduation exercises, Elder Allen doffed his cap and gown, sold his Salt Lake City home at a profit, while his wife packed children and camping outfit into the two automobiles, leaving the oldest daughter to rest with her friends in the city through the summer, and away they sped a distance of 1113 miles to their home in Mesa, Arizona. The strangest thing of it all is that neither the parents nor the children have any hankering to remain under the white lights of Salt Lake City's Main Street. Mesa and the farm with its orange groves and cotton balls, harboring an occasional ostrich for the girl's plumage, offers more attraction than Salt Lake's jazz or even the Saltair Beach.; They are a remarkable family and in nothing more remarkable than in the ability to measure their own limitations, and their great possibilities by way of careful life values; so they return to build themselves more beautiful characters, more useful lives, and more shining hopes in the home city of their choosing. Because of the light shed from the spirit within, these wise adventurers upon educational seas will radiate glory and peace into that circle of the folk they have known and loved these many years. The folks, who know them will enjoy their return through their own increased powers of usefulness while happiness and righteousness shall them adorn. Education with such people is indeed the fruitage of a glorious flowering, planted by Brigham Young, A. O. Smoot, and Karl G. Maeser into the hearts and souls of the youth of the Latter-day Saints. OLD PILGRIM DAYS By Lillian Hoag Monk, Litt. B. A tercentenary volume of historical essays is offered to public and private libraries and historical and ancestral societies interested in Pilgrim history. Special attention is given to Elder. Brewster, "the soul of Plymouth Colony." The Spirit of Ne England was born in the great manor-house at Scrooby. "Old Pilgrim Days" is published under the auspices of the Society, Sons of the Revolution, Los Angeles. Privately printed in a limited edition, postpaid, $1.75. Address Mrs, Lillian Hoag Monk, 1607 South Flower Street, Los Angeles, California. Out of the World By G. Milton Babcock. (Continued..) After eating a hasty lunch he fell to reading the Book of Mormon. His interest grew apace, and reached its height when he read the 28th chapter of II Nephi, where it told among other things, of the 'churches which are built up, and not unto the Lord, when the one shall say unto the other, Behold I, I am the Lord's; and the others shall say, I, I am the Lord's. And thus shall every one say that hath built up churches, and not unto the Lord. And they shall contend one with another; and their priests shall contend one with another, and they shall teach with their learning, and deny the Holy Ghost, which giveth utterance." Surely this prophecy had come to pass! All his young life he had witnessed religious and doctrinal contention, especially in his own family. Well might the Prophet Joseph Smith have asked "which ane is right?" Turning the page, he commenced the 29th chapter: "But behold there shall be many at that day, when I shall proceed to do a marvelous work among them. * * * * "And because my words shall hiss forth, many of the Gentiles shall say, A Bible! A Bible! We have got a Bible, and there cannot be any more Bibles." Walter leaned back in his chair, amazed. He felt cold chills racing up his spine; it brought him to his feet. To think that a prophecy had been fulfilled in his own home that very day by the woman coming to the door with her "Golden Bible" tale! Was it possible that Joseph Smith, an uneducated young man, could have forseen anything like this without divine inspiration? Eagerly he read the remainder of the chapter. "It is enough!" he spoke aloud; "from now on T am a 'Mormon,' " the walls echoing his defiant tone. While he was penning a letter to Elder Lafayette, applying for baptism, he was interrupted by Edith coming to the door, explaining that she was on her way home from Thanksgiving services at the church. "Why weren't you out this morning?" she asked, as she seated herself. 18 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Oh, I got interested in a book and stayed with it," he replied in a non-commital tone. "Reading the Bible, eh?" she proclaimed, picking up the sacred book. Turning a few leaves, she came across a pressed flower that brought a heightened color to her face—"the pink of a winter's sunrise," Walter thought. "You remember them?" he questioned eagerly. "Yes; they are the sweet peas I gave you last Easter," she replied gently, averting her face and spying, unfortunately, the Book of Mormon. "Walter, are you still reading that trashy 'Mormon' stuff?" she asked petulantly. "Yes, Edith; and I am writing this letter applying for baptism." "Walter, do you value my friendship?" she asked tremulously. "More than that of anyone else in the world," he whispered. "Then turn aside from this 'Mormonism,' " she pleaded. "No, Edith; I cannot," he replied positively. "It has become a part of very life—if not life itself." "Then—I bid you good-bye—forever!" "Oh, no, Edith don't say that!" he begged, clasping her hand in sudden anguish; but to no avail, for she quickly passed out the door—away from the well-springs of affection bursting forth from the ardent depths of his being—leaving as his only comfort the thought that he who loved friends more than Christ was not worthy. Of him. Throughout the winter Walter continued to study and think upon the beautiful truths of the gospel. He would have been willing to cut the. Ice in the Hudson in order to go down into the cleansing waters. But Elder Wood, who was very cautious, felt that there was no reason why he shouldn't wait until spring. So Walter had to be content with talking about the gospel and distributing literature at every opportunity. He learned that one John Perkins, could quote Bible "by the yard; so one evening he presented himself at said Perkins' front door and inquired whether the gentleman would be willing to discuss religion. The host, a six-foot, raw-boned Yankee, was willing, so for several hours they had a lively time. Walter "was glad to learn that Perkins believed in baptism by immersion, and also that he lived the law of tithing, giving one-tenth of his earnings to the church. Perkins was compelled to admit, however, that the minister got most of the money paid into his Church, while in Walter's case, any tithing that he might pay would be used in building meetinghouses and temples, and for the benefit of OUT OF THE WORLD 519 the poor; no one receiving a cent for preaching the gospel. Walter also uncovered an earnest investigator in the person of a Mr. Milan, who was particularly impressed with the sturdy, clean, and manly build of the missionaries. A passage of scripture which appealed forcibly to this man was Rev. 14:6-7: "And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, kindred, and tongue, and people. "Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come; and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." "You see, Mr. Milan," quoth Walter, "if the gospel was already here, why should it be necessary for an angel to fly through the midst of heaven with it? Why should it be necessary for him to cry with a loud voice to 'worship him that made heaven and earth' if the people were already worshiping that Being?" "You're right!" agreed Milan. "The 'Mormon' Church sure has a hefty claim when it says that an angel came to Joseph Smith." The most interesting experience that Walter had along gospel lines occurred one Sunday afternoon while visiting people named Taylor. Mrs. Taylor was a devout Catholic, but Mr Taylor did not believe in any particular church. Walter managed to engage him in a doctrinal discussion, she interrupting when he broached the subject of baptism to her husband. "There's no use talking, Mr Nelson," she said; "children are born in sin—the devil is born right in them! I've got three, and every one of them was brought to the Priest and christened within two weeks from the time they were born. I would hate awfully to have one of my kids die without christening—it could not be saved." "Ves, I noticed last fall when I was up in the Catholic cemetery a lot of little gravestones off to one side and I was told that that was the burying spot for children who had not been chrisened before they died,' commented Walter. "But, you know," he continued earnestly, "in the Bible they never speak of baptizing little children; instead Christ took them up in his arms and blest them. Baptism is for the washing away of sins and one must repent before being baptized. Little children can't repent, and I do not believe they are born in sin. Either. I once did, but I don't any more. You wouldn't punish your baby, and I don't think God would, either; suppose you did neglect to bring it to the priest and the baby died—don't you 520 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE think the sin ought to be on your shoulders instead of the baby's?" "I never thought of that before," she answered slowly. "You know," she explained, "our priest studies the Bible and is up on these things, and we Catholics leave these mysteries to him. We are told not to talk over religion with people of other churches and if he knew that I was talking with you, he would call me out from the altar! My sister had that happen to her once, because she talked with the Methodist minister, and I wouldn't have it happen to me for anything in the world." Notwithstanding, Walter read her passage after passage from the scriptures going to show that adults were the only proper subjects for baptism, but to no avail. True, he weakened her blind faith somewhat, but he seemed to be unable to clinch his arguments. She finally went about preparing dinner, while he drew from his pocket the Book of Mormon, perplexed at his inability to make a positive impression upon the mind of his hostess. Often, as a boy, he would haphazardly open his Bible and read the' first page which met his eyes. With that thought in mind, he opened to nearly the last page of the Book of Mormon and began to read the eighth chapter of Moroni: * * * "Listen to the words of Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord and your God. Behold, I came into the world not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance: the whole need no physician, but they that are sick; wherefore little children are whole, for they are not capable of committing sin; wherefore the curse of Adam is taken from them in me, that it hath no power over them; and the law of circumcision is done away in me. "And after this manner did the Holy Ghost manifest the word of God unto me; wherefore, my beloved son, I know that it is solemn mockery before God, that ye shall baptize little children. * * *, "For awful is the wickedness to suppose that God saveth one child because of baptism, and the other must perish because he hath no baptism." Walter was inspired with the message of the prophet. He was about to call Mrs. Taylor's attention to the chapter, but hesitated with the thought that if she wouldn't accept the Bible, she cerainly wouldn't the Book of Mormon. However, he decided to risk it, and, in response to his request, she listened attentively while he read. "What do you think of it now?" he asked eagerly as he finished reading.; "I must say that I never heard anything so plain before in OUT OF THE WORLD 521 all my life," she admitted frankly, the ice of her creed-bound heart melting at last. "Still," she continued reflectively, "I've been taught for so many years to believe in christening that I don't know how I could change now. Oh, dear! Here comes my sister. She is a Catholic, too—for mercy's sake, don't say anything about my talking with you or she'll tell the priest!" Mrs. Taylor was plainly agitated and Walter readily promised to keep quiet. However, no sooner was the newcomer introduced than she bristled: "You're that 'Mormon,' ain't you?" "Yes, ma'am; but perhaps I'd better say that I hope soon to become a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," he answered serenely. "Tt's blasphemy for you to use that name for your Church. When you don't believe in him," she observed bitterly. "Why, I certainly do believe in him, and always have believed!" protested Walter indignantly. "That may all be; but mv mother told me, years ago, that 'Mormons' were little better than the heathens. I imagine von don't know must about it yourself. I heard that you were an Episcopal until you got to runnin' about with those book agents," she sneered. Walter saw that she was blindly preiudiced against the "Mormons," and wisely refrained from replying further to her contemptuous remarks. The next evening, two missionaries were to come in on the train. And Walter walked the mile to the station to meet them. The train soon rolled in the wheels clanking snappily on the ice-bound rails. And the engine hissing clouds of steam over the bleak countryside about the station. Walter recognized immediately Elder Wood. But his companion, Elder Lester, he had never met before. The latter was of the same ruddv. Sturdy tvpe that Walter had learned to look for in a "Mormon" elder. Thev took the stage to Walter's home, and his mother welcomed the visitors cordially, particularly Elder Wood, as he was much older than the average missionary. Walter was glad to see her sit and listen, while the Elder told of the West. His mother would seldom listen to him, as she always believed it proper that children take instructions from their parents upon matters religious. She could not but notice. However. The change that had come over Walter since he first: met the "Mormon" elders. He had given un smolkine: said he desnised liquor: and she cold not cet him to drink a cup of coffee for breakfast anv more He ha? 522 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE also taken to asking grace at the table, which pleased her; but a feeling akin to jealousy would sometimes arise at the thought that it was the "Mormons" who had inspired her boy rather than her own teachings. One evening, Elder Lester inquired where Walter had been brought up. Walter told him. "Green Island?" ejaculated the elder. "Why I passed through there one time—over a year ago. I remember talking with the ferryman before I crossed the river to Troy." It was Walter's turn to be surprised. "What!" he exclaimed; "are you the elder that told the captain about God, and about pre-existence, so that he got into trouble with his own church people? Oh, I can see it all now!" he cried delightedly. "Well do I remember the night I visited his house boat and he told me of the young man who preached to him. Funny I hadn't thought of it before," he went on reflectively; "but I never dreamed that a 'Mormon' missionary could have talked with him." "T intended to stop by that way again and see him," explained Elder Lester, "but I was transferred soon after. I was so interested in preaching to the old fellow that I forgot to leave my card or even a tract." The elder chuckled as Walter told him how the members of the Captain's church had cast him from their midst; and of the time the Captain indulged in his argument with the Episcopal minister. "It looks as if you were sure meant to be a 'Mormon,' Brother Nelson." observed Elder Lester. "You really heard the gospel before you met us, but, of course, vou didn't realize it. Vd sure like to talk with the captain again; I liked him." "Tell you what we'll do, Elder Lester: let's go down there some day next spring. It's only fifty miles and we can go on the train in a couple of hours. I'd like to visit mv folks again. Anyway. As I haven't been back since I left home, although I hardly know how they'll treat me when they find out I am a 'Mormon.' " _ Saturday evening Walter procured a cutter and drove the elders over the mountain to Glenns Falls. The scenery was wild and beautiful alone the route. The snow. Like myriads of diamonds, reflected the bright moonlight. Once in a while sluggish, white cloud would rise in the steely blue and partly cover the clear. Perfect winter's moon. Throwing a stealthy shadow over the road and the brilliant landscape. The trees were bare except for a few faintly rustling dead leaves on the oaks. While here and there a somber, dark-robed pine stood. Like a sentinel watching OUT OF THE WORLD. 523 over the sleeping valley below. Often could be heard the faint roar of the Hudson as the waters plunged over a rapid. At times, utter silence brooded over the mountains, even the sleigh bells neglecting to tingle when the horses slowed to a walk, as if to allow the travelers to fully appreciate the sublime stillness. Then again, when the bays broke into a trot, away they would fly, as on wings, with Walter instinctively shouting the good old New England song, "Jingle Bells!' Glens Falls was reached at length, and all were delighted to see the elders and Walter at the Guiles home, where a long evening was spent in telling gospel experiences. The next morning, Walter resolved to call on: his Uncle John's family, so he hitched the team to the cutter and drove to Sandy Hill. As usual, his uncle was compelled to work Sundays, but his aunt and the girls were delighted to see him. Walter invited them out for a ride, but only Elizabeth would accept. As they were sleighing merrily along, her demeanor suddenly became serious, and she asked: 'Walter, have you ever read much of anything more about the 'Mormons'?" He almost stopped the team by the involuntary tug he gave on the reins, so great was his surprise at her question. "Why I thought you never wanted me to see to the magazine," he finally blurted out. "Yes, but I have a confession to make. You know that night we came from Guiles, and I threw those tracts away? Well, I got to thinking and worrying as I lay in bed, and I hardly slept a wink all that night. I left the house earlier than usual the next morning with the idea of finding the tracts on my way to work. Lucky for me, I remembered that it was just as we were leaving Brooks' station that I threw them away; so when I got there, sure enough there they were scattered alongside the track. "I started to read the 'Plan of Salvation, during my noon hour, and nearly finished it then. I read 'Joseph Smith's Own Story, 'A Friendly Discussion, and last the 'Voice of Warning.' Oh, Walter, that 'Voice of Warning, is a wonderful book!" she went on impulsively. "I sometimes feel that there is something to this 'Mormonism," after all. I wish you would tell me more about them: I've hated to ask you before," she requested, somewhat shamefacedly. "Elizabeth, you don't know how glad I am to hear you talk that way. I too, have some news for you; I expect to be baptized into the 'Mormon' Church just as soon as spring comes!" "Good! I'm glad!" she exclaimed delightedly. "Still. Wal-
524 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ter," she questioned seriously, "are you sure it is the right Church?" "Yes, Elizabeth, I have a testimony of 'Mormonism.'" He then went on to tell her his story—how he had studied the tracts, and the consequences that followed at the office; his experience with the Baptist minister; of Edith; and of Thanksgiving Day when he became fully convinced. "Now, as to the morals of the 'Mormons,'"' he declared reflectively, 'the 'Mormons' believe in a single standard of virtue; that is, they believe the man should keep himself just as spotless as the woman he asks to marry him. You know yourself that you never saw two cleaner looking men in your life than those two elders we met!" "Yes, they certainly were," she answered; "and I have longed to see Elder Maxwell and talk religion with him again, but I have felt too ashamed to go back there after the way I did with those tracts. And besides," she shuddered slightly, "I'm afraid they would want to call at the house, and that would only cause trouble. What you say is certainly interesting, Walter. Have you any literature with you that I haven't read?" she asked. "No, I haven't; but I know where we can get some. What do you say to coming up to Sunday-school with me this afternoon, and we can get some tracts from the missionaries? I can make it in time if we go right now.' "Oh, I wouldn't know what excuse to give mama. She would be terribly angry if I told her I was going to such a meeting." Walter rode with a dejected countenance for a few minutes. "I have it!" he exclaimed suddenly, as they neared the Nelson home, "let's drive right on past the house and say nothing. The Guiles' will give us a bite to eat to make up for the loss of our dinner," he urged. "I'm with you, Walter," she decided, after a moment's reflection. "Let's go." he cried, the bays bounding forward with the sharp crack of the whip.
(To be Continued)
Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
Canadian Mission
Greetings and good wishes come to the Relief Society Presidency, from Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. In this branch a very successful bazaar was held last month in connection with a program of musical numbers and a one-act play. There were one hundred present to listen to the program and to participate in the social which followed. In the bazaar were to be found beautifully embroidered articles with other fancy work and a quantity of plain sewing, all of which found ready sale. A notable feature was the delicious and tempting array of home cooked delicacies which were soon disposed of. Besides being a success from a religious and social standpoint, the entertainment netted the association $90. The President, Mrs. Nellie Roberts, with her counselors and co-workers, was assisted by the energetic young women and men of the branch.
Northern States Mission
Magazine readers will be pleased to learn of the opening again of the University Branch in Chicago. During the war this society did a great deal of Red Cross work as well as other welfare work, but has been closed along with the branch itself for about three years. The new officers are: Mrs. Bertha Whitlock, president; Alice M. Berry, first counselor; Sarah E. K. Brainard, second counselor; and Susabelle Allerton, teacher. From the Logan Square Bulletin, a little paper published in the Logan Square Branch, we learn of some of the activities among our workers there. On Relief Society anniversary day a dinner was given by the Relief Society when one hundred were served. A troop of Boy Scouts is being organized to be known as Troop No. 10, with B. Harris Lloyd as scoutmaster, and Francis A. Cox as assistant scoutmaster. Fourteen fine husky boys will make up the troop. A Relief Society was lately organized at Galesburg, Illinois. It is the first society to be organized in this city, and the members are delighted with the opportunities it will give them. Mrs. Mary Stephens and Mrs. Bertha Mae Whitegood have just visited the Relief Society conference in Detroit, Michigan, and report splendid cooperation there.
526 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Western States Mission
The Relief Societies of the Western States mission are working hard along all lines embraced in the organization. In the fourteen branches which are growing and flourishing the anniversary of the organization was commemorated, in one way or another. In the new church which has recently been purchased in the Omaha branch the Relief Society has furnished a delightful room in which to meet. This organization is now giving a series of entertainments, the proceeds of which are to be used in the purchase of a new piano. The Pueblo Society, early in the year, held a splendid entertainment and bazaar. The program consisted of speaking, music, and a short drama. In the Sunday evening meeting, recently, the Relief Society of the Denver branch had charge of the services and furnished an interesting and instructive program. The recent visit of the president, Mrs. John M. Knight, to the various branches, has given great encouragement to the members there.
Central States Mission
Mrs. Frances W. Kimball, until recently president of the Wichita, Kansas, Relief Society, called at Relief Society Headquarters a few days ago, and gave a very interesting account of Relief Society work in the Central States mission, which is being successfully carried on under Mrs, Charlotte T. Bennion. Mrs. Kimball accompanied her husband to the Central States where for nearly two years she has devoted herself to Relief Society work. She has greatly enjoyed her labors as a missionary and feels that her experiences are invaluable. Mrs. Kimball's home is in Thatcher, Arizona, where for a number of years she served as counselor to Mrs. Elizabeth Layton, president of the Relief Society of the St. Joseph stake. Previous to this, for fifteen years, she was a member of the stake board.
California Mission
Just prior to her resignation as president of the California Relief Societies, Mrs, Louisa W. Jones held social welfare group conventions throughout the mission, with a view o creating interest in practical human welfare problems. At the Los Angeles convention, which covered a period of four days and was probably the largest held, there was an average attendance of 44, Each of the branches of the Los Angeles conference was represented by two special delegates. Luncheon was served each day at the church to all those in attendance. Among the speakers were L, D. S. Church leaders, Relief Society officers, and social workers from Los Angeles. Three sessions were held daily, including a reception to the delegates, which was held at the home of Mrs, C. B.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD — 527
Stewart. One forenoon was devoted to visiting charitable institutions, schools, orphanages, hospitals, etc., the delegates being divided into groups in order to cover the plans. The reception at the Stewart home was most delightful. The house was decorated with beautiful California flowers, the program was most entertaining and the refreshments delicious. Mrs. Stewart was assisted in entertaining by the California mission Relief Society Board. In addition to the delightful musical numbers given by the talented musicians of the Los Angeles conference, the following program was given at the convention: Introductory Remarks, Mrs. L. W. Jones; Normal Family Life, Mrs. M. K, Miller; Essentials of Family Welfare, E. B. Whitehead; Address, Norman Martin, Director of Charities, Los Angeles county; Address, Mrs. Barton, of Los Angeles Police Department; The Nature and Purpose of Methods in Family Service, Mrs. Hattie Jensen; Recreational Needs (adults), D. B. DeGroot; The work of the Juvenile Protective Association, E. K. Foster; Conservation of Child and the Home, Dr. Maud Wilde of the Mothers' Educational Center; Discussion of Local Problems, President Joseph W. McMurrin; Responsibilities and Qualifications of the Public Service Worker—Need for Cooperation, Dr. John T. Miller; Mutual Improvement Association Meeting, The Neighbors, and the Slave of the Camel, (two one-act dramas) and Historical Pageant.
Teton Stake
Ward conferences have been planned and are being held during the summer months in all of the wards in the stake. The stake officers are delighted with the enthusiasm and renewed activity which prevail in the ward organizations.
Franklin Stake
The Franklin Stake Relief Society Board conceived the idea of an educational social, and as a consequence a very rare entertainment was held in the Preston Opera House. Colonial and modern ideas were carried out in costumes, dances and songs. With one execption every ward in the stake furnished numbers. A few old-time dances were prepared, representing our grandmothers' time; and the grace and beauty with which these dances were executed brought favorable comment from both old and young. The lunch arrangement was unique; doughnuts, buttermilk, molasses candy, and popcorn, graced the colonial table, while ice-cream, sherbet and fancy cakes were the attractions on the modern tables. Five hundred people participated in this novel entertainment. Though the price was placed unusually
528 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
low, a neat profit was realized and all agreed that the evening was educationally, financially, and socialy successful.
Logan Stake
The Logan Stake Board has been given the use of a room in the stake house. They have also been given the privilege of holding their officers' meetings in the assembly room. In the Stake Board room a library has been started, and on the shelves are already to be found all the bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine. Among the interesting entertainments which have been held in the various wards of this stake was a pageant put on by the Eleventh Ward Relief Society, interpreting song, "Come, come ye Saints." The decorations, costumes, and stage setting, old-timers said, were absolutely true to early life on the plains. Camp fire scenes, the scenes of the old gentleman dying, the report of the loss of a child, and the skulking of Indians brought tears to the eyes of many of the old pioneers, who crossed the plains in those perilous times. The hymn, "Come, come ye Saints," was sung by the group. Two daughters of William Clayton were among those taking part on the program. The entertainment was so interesting that at the request of the Bishop it was repeated for the ward members.
Rigby Stake
At a Relief Society conference held in Rigby stake, on June 3, there were in attendance 298. 19 stake officers, 92 local officers, 111 teachers, 10 visiting stake officers, besides members and visitors, and 29 babies. The visiting stake officer represented the following stakes: Yellowstone, Fremont, Bingham, Shelley, and Blackfoot. A program composed of musical selections, together with the following subjects, was given: Life and Literary Works of Emmeline B. Wells, Genealogical Work, A Demonstration of Teacher's Visit to the Home, Dress Reform, and Economy.
St. George Stake
During the winter membership drive, the presidencies of the East and West wards of St. George decided upon a contest plan for the purpose of increasing attendance and awakening interest in Relief Society work. The duration of the contest was from the first of December until the first of May, with the agreement that the winning ward society was to be entertained by the losing society. The final decision of the ward secretaries showed that there was a tie, so the presidents, Mrs. Esther Whitehead and Mrs. Susia Atkin, decided that a conjoint party should be given which was a sort of testimonial to the teachers and mem-
NOTES FROM THE FIELD. — 529
bers. A very fine musicale was arranged, followed by a social and the serving of dainty refreshments. The party was held in the basement of the taberacle, with 202 Relief Society women in attendance. The last union meeting of the season was held June 3. There was a good attendance of local officers and teachers. During the winter the teachers' work has been emphasized, and the main feature of the program was a demonstration of Relief Society teaching, showing the effect of real teaching and idle talk upon the members visited. At the close of the meeting, refreshments were served by the Stake Board, and a pleasant social hour spent.
Morgan Stake
A social was recently given by the stake board in honor of Mrs. Martha A. Heiner, second counselor in the Stake Relief Society who has resigned her position on account of ill health, and Mrs. Charlotte J. Seaman, a stake board member, who is moving away from the stake. After an interesting program, a delicious luncheon was served.
Parowan Stake
In reviewing the work of the Parowan Ward Relief Society for the last year, we find some very interesting items. Last summer the Society entertained the Boy Scouts of Salt Lake county, over two hundred in number, at a banquet. The banquet was well prepared and well served and the boys' evident enjoyment made the effort well worth while. Respect and love for the older members of the ward prompted an entertainment last fall of all those in the Parowan ward over sixty years of age at a program meeting and banquet. This is a yearly occurrence. In an effort to revive the "old time" wood hauling parties last winter the Relief Society offered to every man and boy, with their partners, a free banquet and free ticket to the dancing party held for that occasion, for every thousand pounds of wood hauled. The response was most gratifying, eighty-four thousand pounds of wood being received. The market price of this wood was $294. The wood was distributed among the needy. On Christmas day parcels containing groceries and other edibles were distributed among the widows and the needy by the Society. The contents of these parcels cost the Relief Society $115. Early in the year of 1921, the officers of the Society began planning for a temple excursion to the district temple at St. George, a distance of about eighty-five miles. Activities began in February with a dancing party and luncheon. This affair was nicely conducted
530 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
and netted $75. In March a dance and bazaar were held. The bazaar articles is as follows: thirty yards of home made carpet; proceeds of which added $136 to the fund. The list of completed six beautiful woven rugs, eleven serviceable quilts, ladies' wearing apparel, infants' clothing, little boy's and girls' complete outfits. The excursion was planned for April 19, and comparatively little trouble was encountered in securing transportation. The men furnished their cars for the running expense, and most of the drivers rendered their services free of charge. Cars were hired to take luncheon and bedding, the company having previously rented a building conveniently near the temple. The entire trip occupied three days, two of which were spent in the temple. In the party there were forty-four women. The weather conditions were favorable and the trip was successful from every standpoint. Although the roads to Dixie are rough and rather dangerous, the company met with no accident and general good will prevailed. The people of St. George were very hospitable to the party, showing every possible courtesy to them.
From the Watch Tower By Laura Moench Jenkins
Night's darkness encircled the earth with her veil, In spirit I wandered afar— Where mountain peaks echo the wind's dying wail, Through gateways forever ajar.
My guide bade me pause and I gazed on a scene Of wonder and beauty untold: Beneath me earth slumbered so calm and serene And we watchmen, strict vigils did hold.
But look! A dark cloud from the east seems to rise, Like magic, gain bigness and power, Covering with blackness the once placid skies, And hearts with afright seem to cower,
See nations 'gainst brother fight sore, And neighbor 'gainst neighbor in warfare engage, Red War sweeps the earth o'er and o'er.
Lo, famine's dark figure strides stolid and bold, And pestilence stalks by her side, Together they slay where red war did withhold, And none from their fury can hide.
I turned in dismay from the horrible sight; My guide bade me look to the west, In silence I turned me, and lo, from the height Of mountain top's white rugged crest—
FROM THE WATCH TOWER — 531
A light from a watch tower shines forth bright and clear, A city o'er shadowed with wings,; Built high in the mountains, a stranger to fear, While peace round her portals still clings,
Her temple spires, pointing to mansions above, Communion divine seem to hold; Fair advocates pleading for mercy and love, Can God his compassion withhold?
O Zion, I know thee! No stranger art thou, Though hidden from wrath of the day, God knew thee aforetime, his seal on thy brow He placed, when he hid thee away,
To nurture thee kindly and train in his fear, Till judgments have swept the earth clean; When forth thou shalt come and in glory appear, To cover the earth with thy sheen,
"A bride for a bridegroom," my guide whispered low. "The righteous are hastening the work; The time draweth nigh as the faithful ones know, And labor, with never a shirk;
Preparing a Zion on earth fit to meet The Zion preparing above. They'll meet in true gladness ecstatically greet, United in heavenly love."
Then onward we sped over ether waves blue, A land of great brightness I spied: A city of turrets and towers rose to view, Where spirits departed abide.
And hither and thither I saw them pass by, From morn till night time was nigh: Preparing in grandeur the mansions on high, And building a Zion on High.
Where souls of the righteous redemption shall gain, And glory celestial shall know, And come with our Savior forever to reign, When Zion meets Zion below,
Though dead they shall live, in God's mercy and grace, E'en "added upon" at his will: Till immortal being doth mortal efface, Advancing eternally still.
From Zion to Jerusalem
It is inspiring to read the paper called the Palestine Weekly, which reaches this office regularly. We discover from the last issue peace has been declared between the Arabs and the Jews, especially the Jewish soldiers. Much hope is expressed in the announcement of Lord Balfour, in England, who emphasizes the home land spirit in which Jerusalem is being settled by the Jews. The following is taken from July numbers of the Palestine Weekly, 1921:
The Local Jewish scouts have recommenced their activities, to which they have now added an orchestra. Another pleasant new feature is a choir, which has been founded by the school of music, Jewish dramatic societies are beginning to flourish and one such professional group successfully performed a play of Jacob Gorden, translated into Hebrew by a local teacher. The fact that Jewish players can earn their livelihood on the stage bespeaks the great interest taken by the Jewish population in the drama.
Professor Einstein's Return.
The famous scientists and Zionist leader, Professor Albert Einstein, whose theories of relativity have created a sensation throughout the world, has left London for Berlin. His American and English successes' have made a good impression in all circles.
Dr. Weizman's Projects,
Before leaving New York on-board the United States Ship Celice, Dr. Weizmann declared to newspapermen that most of the money collected in America would be devoted to the establishment of a big mortgage bank, the plans of which were now under consideration in London, A special fund will also be created for the purposes of hastening the irrigation plans of the principal rivers of Palestine.,
An ordinance has been passed by the government forbidding the welfare exchange of any antiquities whatsoever. The discovery of such articles must be reported to the proper authorities and the Palestine Museum will receive all worth-while articles unearthed by workmen who are carrying on building activities in and around Jerusalem. A Shekel day has been declared all over the civilized world wherein the Jews will give a shekel annually for the rebuilding of Jerusalem.
Be A Real Jewish Center.
It is most gratifying news to learn that we are to have Jewish centers in our cities and towns under the auspices and guidance of the Jewish Welfare Board, which has recently, in addition to being representative of all Jewish agencies—religious, educational and recreational—had incorporated unto and into itself the Y. M. H. A., and kindred association,
FROM ZION TO JERUSALEM — 533
President Harding was thanked by a Zionist delegation for his kindness to the Zionist cause. "After exchanging greetings with the President, the delegation was photographed on the lawn of the White House with him," is reported in the daily press, We are afraid that Henry Ford, Morgenthau, his admirers, George Stromberg and the Israelite, will begin to doubt President Harding's 100 per cent Americanism. We pity the President, he may lose the good opinion of these extra distinguished more than 100 per cent Americans.
Greek Patriarchs Sell Portion of Mount Zion to Palestine Zionists.
Jerusalem.—The Greek Patriarch of Jerusalem has sold to the local Zionist Organization a large tract of land in his possession on Mount Zion, close to the citadel of David. An immense and beautiful edifice, formerly the centre of all Greek religious activities in this city, was sold as part of the purchase.
One Thousand Jews off to Palestine.
Bagdad.—One thousand Jews, enroute to Palestine, have arrived here from Kurdistan and Persia, Many of the immigrants are trained and experienced agriculturalists and are bringing a number of agricultural implements with them.
Zionist Delegation Thanks Northcliffe.
A delegation of Zionists consisting of Louis Lipsky, Judge Bernard Rosenblatt, Morris Rothenberg 'and Bernard G. Richards met Viscount Northcliffe at the Gotham Hotel, Wednesday afternoon, and expressed to him the thanks of Zionists for the sympathetic attitude the Northcliffe press, especially the London Times, has taken towards the Zionist movement and to the problems of the Jews in Palestine.
TO BE A MOTHER Abbie R. Madisen
It takes a heap of patience, dear, A mother brave to be, It takes a heap of praying, too, Head bowed on bended knee.'
It takes a bright and smiling face, A heap of gladsome cheer; And it takes a heap of grit, sometimes, To hide a falling tear.
We try, and sometimes feel we win; Then, sometimes, feel we lose; Today, a tragedy seems near, Tomorrow, things amuse.
Sometimes our boat is stranded quite Upon a rocky shore; Sometimes it lightly rides the waves, As a happy bird might soar.
Oh! Father, stand thou at the helm And guide in wisdom's way, That, through it all, we may prove true To home and thee, we pray.
World Happenings James H, Anderson
(Covering the Month of July, 1921)
In Italy, factions continued warring with each other, and many persons were killed.
U. S. Government bonus for able-bodied ex-soldiers was postponed until 1922,
Mexico had a big railway strike and a big oil fire that did millions in damage.
President Harding refuses to play golf on Sundays, being consistent in that respect with his religious professions.
The United States public debt, on May 31, was $23,710,405,910. This means a quarter of a century of burdensome taxation.
All Europe is suffering from a great drouth this year, and the reports foreshadow much destitution the coming winter.
The Versailles treaty with Germany may be adopted by the United States with all League of Nations items stricken out.
The wheat shortage in the world in 1921 was estimated by government statisticians to be over four million acres.
An Arab government was established in Mesopotamia, by the British government, much to the displeasure of France.
LeGrand Young, one of Utah's prominent and active pioneers, and nephew of President Brigham Young, died in Salt Lake City, on July 23.
A disarmament conference by the world's leading nations will be held in Washington, D. C., on November 11, at the invitation of the President of the United States.
The railway brotherhoods in the United States have postponed consideration of a general strike until September 1, the season for moving the nation's crops.
535
WORLD HAPPENINGS
The Ku Klux Klan, recently revived in the southern United States, committed several "tar and feathers" outrages in Texas, arousing public sentiment to a vigorous protest.
Gov. A. L. Small, of Illinois, was indicated on charges of fraud. Whether or not it is spitework against the governor will be determined at the trial.
Japan's population, approached to near eighty millions, No wonder the "flowery kingdom" wishes to extend its territorial area into eastern Asia and into western America.
A huge gun that will hurl a 5-ton projectile 200 to 300 miles has been invented by a New York man. Yet the world is working for 'peace.
Spain dealt with an uprising in Morocco, and had heavy losses of troops. Other nations having control in Africa are watching uneasily, lest they have a general uprising of the black race there.
Irish troubles continued, although strenuous efforts were made for a peaceful settlement—a result not in immediate prospect at the end of the month.
Blindness, when caused by atrophy, or drying of the optic nerve, is claimed to be curable by the use of a new serum, according to an announcement made by Dr. E. A. Pond.
Eminent European statesmen took the view that there could be no peace in Europe until Russia comes under a stable form of government, which probably will be a monarchy.
In Russia, famine conditions are terrible beyond description, and twenty-five million people are perishing for lack of food. This news came direct from Russian official sources.
Greece was victorious over the Turkish nationalist armies, and established the Greek army east of Constantinople. It looks as if Greece would obtain control in that city.
Great Britain and France were loggerheads over the Silesian dispute between Poland and Germany. Great Britain feels that France is displaying an inexcusable and arbitrary selfishness.
536 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
A monument marking the point above Salt Lake City where President Brigham Young designated the Salt Lake Valley as the place for the Latter-day Saints to assemble after being driven from Illinois, was dedicated on July 25.
A jury in New York convicted a groceryman of assault for kissing a maid against her will, in a house at which he called. Then the foolish judge turned the offender loose without punishment.
The Salvation Army chief in New York announced that the United States was facing the most critical period it had known for fifteen years, in the way of food shortage and unemployment.
Camille Flammarion, the noted French astronomer, and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, author and spiritualist, are in agreement on the proposition that the spirit of man has substance, which they call psychoplasm or ectoplasm.
Czecho-Slovakia, Jugo-Slavia, and Rumania, entered into a compact to make war on Hungary if the latter established a monarchy. Those southeastern European nations all are "spoiling for a fight," notwithstanding prevalent peace talk.
The W. C. T. U. Of Tacoma, Washington, adopted an anti-gossip resolution in which a pledge was made not to repeat any ill story about a girl, and an agreement adopted to aid any woman, who had made a mistake, to regain respectability. It is intended to make this line a national movement.
Lord Northcliffe, prominent English publisher, visited New York. And reported that he looked for prohibition there, but did not discover it. Lord Northcliffe is that sort of "rule or ruin" personage who assails everybody and everything that fails to conform to his individual notions. In England he is yclept the "uncrowned king,"
Note: No letters to the Editor or Business Manager should be enclosed in packages or 2nd class mail. P. O. Clerks open such packages, and if letters or messages are found, this office must pay 1st class postage on the package.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS, CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISA YATES ROBISON - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs, Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A, F. Lund Mrs. Susa Young Gates Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs, Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - Susa Young Gates Business Manager - - - Jeanette A, Hyde Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. VIII. SEPTEMBER, 1921 No. 9
NO MAN CAN BE SAVED IN IGNORANCE
One of the inspired sayings uttered by the Prophet Joseph Smith, which has been quoted everywhere, is "that no man can be saved in ignorance." The saying is true, but taken exactly as it is, it is susceptible of more than one explanation. It is a favorite quotation among our educators; and sometimes eager young people are inclined to interpret ignorance as a lack of book knowledge or ignorance as regards schooling. This interpretation is scarcely correct. The prophet evidently intended the explanation to cover ignorance concerning the laws and principles of the gospel, for the men and women who laid the foundation of the Church in Jesus' day, as well as those who restored this Church and kingdom today—certainly had little or no schooling, and their education was not obtained through books nor earthly teachers.
True it is that the Lord expects his children to learn all that is possible to know concerning history, science, art and life in general; but all of this may be learned, has been learned, and will be learned, in the future, where necessary, perhaps, without the aid of books or schools. We must look upon education as a means to an end, and not as the end in and of itself. A school education, with books placed in our hands teaches us how to secure knowledge, but it does not invent the mental tools nor even manufacture them, because books are merely the description of other peoples' experiences and discoveries. We are helped
538 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
by knowing what other men who have preceded us, along the road we are traveling, have learned; but truth and law are eternal, and we are as likely to discover truth, if we struggle for it, as is any man or woman in the past or in the future.
Physical ignorance, that is, a lack of knowledge concerning our body and the laws which govern the delicate adjustment of the parts in this human machine, causes sickness and distress to those who suffer thus from ignorance, and who disobey those laws. Mental ignorance leaves us in a world of intellectual semi-twilight, for our eyes are blind to observe the miracles of nature about us and we cannot know of the many-sided cultured world which is a part of the mental equipment of educated people. Spiritual ignorance leaves the mind in darkness concerning the relation of human beings to their Father in heaven. We may discover through experience, or training, the great fundamental moral truths which are the basis of eight of the ten commandments; but when it comes to knowledge concerning God and the principles of righteousness, spiritual ignorance leaves us to wallow in blindness and superstition of various kinds. We may be very wise in physical education, we may be well taught along mental lines, or we may be thoroughly conversant with the fundamental laws of nature, and yet be comparatively uneducated in spiritual truths. The ideal condition is to be qualified through proper tradition, wise training in childhood, liberal schooling in institutions of learning in youth, receiving at the same time a full education in the principles of the gospel, and in the knowledge of the scriptures. The qualification of the Latter-day Saint begins with the spiritual education. Life may offer to us little opportunity for training in schools, and our body may be frail and our life burdens heavy, but if we have received a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and have made that the foundation stone of our spiritual education we are educated indeed and our lives will be crowned with divine success. Sisters of the Relief Society, you who are officers and you who are members, answer to your hearts one question: Have I secured to myself the Pearl of Great Price, the great gift of God to man, which is eternal life, and which can be secured only through first obtaining a testimony of the mission and crucifixion of the Savior, with the added testimony that Josepn Smith was a prophet of the living God, and that he revealed anew the gospel of Jesus Christ in this the last dispensation to the children of men? If you have secured that foundation principle of true education, then indeed you are wise, and no matter if you are unable to read and write—no matter if life has EDITORIAL 539 prevented you from ever entering the doors of a school room— no matter if the home and the children have crowded out of your life the opportunities for culture and learning, still you are educated and you shall pass from this stage of existence graduated into the spheres where Christ dwells and where he is waiting to receive you and crown you in glory with him in his Father's kingdom. Despise not in your heart the learning of man, nor the training of schools, dear older sisters, for it is an enrichment to the spirit, and an added value to our earthly experience. Remember if you have failed to acquire that mental education you Shall have the whole of the Millennium in which to study and qualify yourself. The body may be strong, the mind may be active, but if the soul is asleep, then indeed there is an ignorance there which shall prevent that human being from being saved in the kingdom of God. No man can be saved in ignorance of the laws of God nor the principles of righteousness, WHO NEEDS ME? The greatest need of the human heart is encouragement. The cruelest weapon held by the powers of evil over the human soul is discouragement. An Arab legend has it that Lucifer was deprived of all his weapons for instilling motives of crime and sin in mortals. He begged for one weapon to be left, just one little insignificant tool, that of discouragement. And Gabriel, thinking the tool was so small and so harmless, left it with Lucifer who laughed secretly as he left the sacred presence, for he knew that every crime in the calendar could be committed if he began subtly with the weapon of discouragement. All mortals, from the cradle to the grave, like to feel that they are important to somebody and something. The child is happy in the knowledge that he is his "mother's little man"' or that she is "father's darling," without whom life would be unbearable. All through the growing years the child needs the stimulus of encouragement, not flattery, not indulgence, but that encouragement which springs from the knowledge that his help is important, his presence a blessing. Married companionship rests solidly, not upon romantic love, but upon the solid basis of mutual need and mutual encouragement. Rob a man or a woman, young or old, of the feeling that he or she is of value to the family, to the home or to the church, and you have given death his swiftest weapon. It is cowardly for a Latter-day Saint to permit discouragement to take possession of his soul. We are needed, the Lord does want us to help in his gracious work. One might say He needs 540 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE us proportionately as we need Him. So much for the personal side: of this mattef. - When you want to stimulate and buoy up your own sorrowing heart, or to smooth your hours of pain and distress, persuade some other afflicted one that life would be barren and effort would be lost unless the patient sufferer recovers health, and the will achieves determination to live and strive. We are often told to send flowers to the living, much more vital is it that we should say a dozen words of encouragement, reminding our friend of his worth and service in his home, his church, and to humanity in general. We are all needed. I need you, dear patient reader, to follow these flowing thoughts of mine quite as much as you need me to voice them, and to give you pause in the midst of your own many discouragements.. Let me whisper this sacret in your ear; every time you try to ecourage some one else your own soul will be flooded with a light and glow of peace and good cheer. Try it next time when the gloom is heavy and the load is barren. DRESS REFORM We are happy to call attention to the timely. And excellent announcement from Superintendent Adam S. Bennion, in regard to the dress rules of the school girls in the Church schools. These rules are issued not in the spirit of restraint for the girl so much, as in the spirit of protection to herself and her brother in the matter of chastity and right behavior. If there are any mothers who have not yet explained to their daughters the vital reason why girls should not expose their bodies, as is done today on the streets and in our ball rooms, it is high time that they begin an exhaustive set of private lectures and explanations to the girls on the difference between the temptation of a girl and the temptation of a boy in sex matters, The home is the place where these instructions should begin, and mothers should certainly be familiar with the laws of nature; above everything the instructions should be given with a delicate appreciation of the laws of modesty, and of the necessity for approaching sex subject entirely from a scientific view. The instructions given herein applies equally to school dresses and to party dresses. Let mothers see that the girls are willing to adopt them. Superintendent Bennion's statement follows: DRESS RULES ANNOUNCED. "In these days of economic and social unrest, America may properly look to her schools as a sobering and stabilizing agency, All too frequently fashions of the ballroom and the vaudeville EDITORIAL 541 stage are carried over into our institutions of learning so as to interfere with scholastic ideals for which our schools should stand, as well as to impose a burden upon the parents who are called upon to finance their children in getting an education. "Party dresses with their accompaniment of extreme hairdress, rouge, lipstick, etc., ought certainly to be wholly out of place in a high school where students, simply attired, ought in modesty to give themselves to that study which will develop most fully the talents that are theirs. "Tn an effort to establish in our schools standards of simplicity, economy, and good sense, the Church schools, beginning in September, 1921, will ask all girls attending to observe the following regulations: "Extremely thin material such as chiffon and georgette crepe will be barred, as will open loose sweaters, lace stockings and hosettes. The schools do not deem it advisable to specify a regulation uniform, but will approve dresses and suits made modestly and simply. In doubtful cases the school matron will be the judge of the suitability of the costume in question. "Because of the expense involved, the schools discourage the wearing by girls of silk stockings. The recommendation applies to the boys with equal force in the matter of silk shirts and silk socks." "As a safeguard to health and normal development, the schools advise girls to wear walking shoes, either high or low, rather than French heeled shoes and slippers." "This announcement is not made," Supt. Bennion said, "in any sense of an effort to curb individuality. In fact we really object to the idea of a school uniform. We do not in the least wish to prescribe what the students shall do in the matter but rather we want to establish a condition in regard to dress so that everybody will be on an equal footing in regard to dress and feel comfortable in regard to style. If there is anything arbitrary in the matter we are merely substituting for the arbitrariness of fashion, the arbitrariness of correct school costume. "While full appreciation is expressed of the charming beauty of a woman's hair, especially as typified in the school girl's waving locks, the present vogue of much marceled, little combed, little cared for hair on a growing miss is much lamented, aside from the fact of the needless expense of maintaining such styles of head dress. While no drastic note of dictation is taken by the school heads, it is believed that simpler, more healthful modes of headdress will by no means debar any girl of her full right to all the girlish beauty nature has given her. It is believed the entire matter will meet with the hearty appreciation not only of the girls themselves but also of their parents. Guide Lessons for November LESSSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in November) TITHING Tithing is a system of producing revenue which may be secular or ecclesiastical. The word implies a tenth, or a tithe, and consists, as a rule, of a gift or donation of one-tenth of a person's property or that which he produces.. All the ancient people, both Pagan' and Hebrew has some form f religious tax which was levied by a ruler upon his subjects. Among the Pagans a tenth of the spoils of war was dedicated to the gods. Babylonia, Assyria, Egypt, China, Greece and Rome, each had a system of taxation levying one-tenth from their subjects. In the Mohammedan law it is sometimes mentioned as a twentieth or a fortieth. All the Hebrew kings required a tithe of the grainfield, vineyards and flocks, (See I Samuel, 8:15-19.) In the Book of Deuteronomy, the Hebrew people were taught in detail how the tithes should be collected and consumed and the quantity. Abraham paid tithes to Melchizedek, the king and high-priest of Salem which city was later called Jerusalem. Jacob (Genesis 28:22) vows of his own free will to pay a tithe just as the Arabs used to vow and deliver the tithe of the increase of their flocks. We are told in Deuteronomy (14:28 and in 24:12) how the tithes of the Hebrew people were to be stored and how to be spent in caring for the poor. The tribe of Levi was selected to lead the Levitical priesthood. Aaron was at the head of that priesthood and was known as a high priest. In the division of the Land of Promise no provision was made for a location for the tribe of Levi, but some few cities were set apart for them. They were allotted a living out of the tithes of the people. It may be thought that the priests were fortunate, but it should be remembered that no priest was permitted to own his own home. He was to devote his life in the service of the Lord in his turn, in the temple or tabernacle. In the days of Ezra and Nehemiah great stress was laid GUIDE LESSONS 543 upon the provision for the support of the priests and Levites. There were two tithes paid by each Jewish citizen. The following is from the Bible Dictionary: The first consisted of one-tenth of the produce of his fields, trees, flocks and herds, to be given to God as the sovereign Proprietor of all things and as the King of the Jews, (Lev. 27:30-31; I Sam. 8:15-17) The proceeds of this tax were devoted to the maintenance of the Levites in their respective cities. (Num. 18:21-24.) A person might pay this tax in money, adding one-fifth to its estimated value. The Levites paid a tenth part of what they received to the priests. (Num. 18:26-28.) The second tithe required of each land-holder was one-tenth of the nine parts of his produce remaining after the Ist tithe, to be expended at the tabernacle or temple in entertaining the Levites, his own family, etc., changing it first into money, if on account of remoteness he chose to do so, (Deut. 12:17-19; 22-29; 22-27, Every third year a special provision was made for the poor either out of this second tithe or in addition to it, Deut. 14:28-29; 26:12-15, These tithes were not burdensome; but the pious Israelite found himself the richer for their payment, though it does not seem to have been enforced by any legal penalties. See the promise to the obedient in Deut. 28:1-13. The system of tithes was renewed both before and after the captivity, 2nd Chr. 31:5, 6, 12; Neh. 10:37, 38; 12 44; 13:5, 12; but they were not always regularly paid, and hence the divine blessing was withheld, Mal, 3:8-12. At a fater period the tithe was apparently divided into three portions, one of which was given to the. Priests and Levites one to the temple storehouse, and one to the needy at Jerusalem. The Pharisees were scrupulously exemplary in paying their tithes, but neglected the more important duties of love to God and man, Matt. 23:23. 2 The principle of the ancient tithes, namely, that ministers of the gospel and objects of benevolence should be provided for by the whole people of God, according to their means, is fully recognized in Scripture as applicable to the followers of Christ. He sent his servants forth two and two, without provision or purse, to receive their support from the people, since "the laborer is worthy of his hire." Matt. 10:9-14; Luke 10:4-8-16. Paul also reasons in the same way, Ist Cor. 9:13-14; Gal. 6:6. For purposes of piety and beneficence he directed the Corinthians, and virtually all Christians, to lay aside from their income on the first day of the week as the Lord had prospered them, I Cor. 16:2. There is no, reason to doubt that the early Christians gave more freely of their substance than did the ancient Jews. Acts 4:34-37; 2nd Cor. 8:1-4. Since the days of the early Christian churches tithes have been paid and enjoined by, ecclesiastical courts. In course of time the principle of paying tithes was extended beyond its original scope by the Catholic church, Tithes at that time became interchangeable to laymen and therefore were salable property. In England there is a permanent and general system of tithes to support the authorized or established Episcopal church, and an elaborate system of laws have grown out of this custom. This English tithe is quite distinct from the civil taxes and is used for the support of the authorized church. In fact tithing was practiced by the Saxons and Normans. The old Anglo Saxons 544 'RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE called it a "frank pledge." "Most of the protestant churches that grew out of Luther's Reformation have no regular system of tithing and many different methods have been evolved for collecting funds for the support of their churches, salary of the priests and other expenses. The passing of the plate during church service is a common form of collecting money; pews and seats are sold at rentals, according to their desirable location. Where a church is located in a prosperous district, the members are expected to contribute liberally. If the church is located in a poor district, their expenses are necessarily lessened according to the situation of the people who compose that church. Some of the modern churches have a budget and committees are appointed to assess members to sustain and take care of pastoral expenses. Then there are other collections, such as missionary funds, traveling funds. These committees meet annually and apportion the expense for the maintenance of the church, such as house rent, traveling expenses, pastor's salary and then levy corresponding assessments on the congregation. The supervising officers of these churches, such as bishops and superintendents, have a claim upon the budget and provision is made for their maintenance. The Protestant churches have not been able to establish the principle of tithing. In recent years a few have endeavored to get the members of their churches to give one-tenth of their income, so much of which should be given to the maintenance of the church, and the tithepayer may distribute his own tithing as his conscience may dictate. As the salaries of all officers in many of the sectarian churches down to deacons, must be paid, including singers, organist and choristers, the maintenance of a sectarian church becomes quite a tax. The value of paying tithing has a moral aspect. If a certain portion of a man's income is given by him for religious and philanthropic purposes, the effect upon him is far more beneficial than it is upon others. Human nature is naturally selfish and easily becomes sordid. Every avenue which leads outwards from a man's heart after satisfying the needs of his family enlarges his vision and mellows his soul. The spirit of the Christ is always the spirit of love, gift-giving and unselfsh service to others. "It is better to give than to receive," said the Savior, because giving in the right spirit ennobles, while taking may canker and corrode those who continually receive. The beneficial result of giving for religious purposes applies, first to the individual, second to the church, and third to the whole world. A regulated and systematic method of giving is of great importance, both to the individual and to the church. Society GUIDE LESSONS 545 is made up of individuals and what benefits one is a blessing to all. When the indivdual knows exactly what he has to pay he may calculate his income. Equally valuable is this regular system to the church itself. In regard to its beneficial needs, the law of tithing as given in Section 119 of the Book of Doc- ° trine and Covenans is simple, beautiful and complete. When it is paid, the individual and the church will prosper. (See Amos 4:4; Mal. 3:8-10; Hebrew 7:5, 6, 8, 9.) Those who do not observe this law usually get into debt and stay in debt and lack that good spirit that comes through a generous attitude towards life. The results to the Latter-day Sains of disobedience to this law are very noticeable. Those who cease to pay tithing usually find fault with the manner and use of tithes. They are lax in other duties; they are indifferent to church interests, and they may be heard speaking against the word of the Lord, and they do not see or understand the fundamental purposes of the Church as do those who obey this law. Tithing properly observed will broaden the mind, enlarge the soul, make us more considerate and humble. It affects the rich and poor alike. It is an aid to proper and intelligent giving: it is a debt we owe to God: it must be put into actual practice to receive its benefits: it creates Satisfaction with the gospel, develops faith in God and his great work, and devotion to his service, and will prepare us for the United Order. Tithing should be paid as one receives his income or allowance—by the wage earner when he receives his salary; by the rich man when he receives his income from investments; by the farmer when he harvests his crops. The time to pay is when the means comes into our possession. Every tithepayer and every person who should pay tithing should also attend the annual tithing settlement in the ward. The following are part of the written instructions of the Presiding Bishopric concerning tithing: The proper time to pay tithes is when one's income is received, Farm products should be paid in the season in which they are gathered, Wage-earners should pay their tithes weekly, monthly or at such other times as they receive their salaries. The practice of delaying the payment of tithing until the end of the year is largely responsible for the failure of many people to fully observe the law of tithing; and thus they forfeit the blessing predicated upon obedience to this law. The Bishop should encourage the monthly payment of tithes even among those who follow farming and similar occupations. Every stake and ward officer should observe the monthly payment of tithes. Farm products and the fruits of one's labors, or investments, should be tithed. Cash is always acceptable, because it can be handled witheut loss; but tithes "in kind" should be accepted when offered, When one is away from the ward in which he belongs, and it is not convenient to pay tithing to his Bishop or at the Presiding Bishop's Office, he may 546. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pay his tithes to the Bishop who can be most conveniently reached. At the close of the year he should send such receipts to his own Bishop, who will enter the amount on the tithing record in red ink, thus indicating that it was not received by him. The accounting for such tithes will be made by the Bishop to whom it was paid, The Bishopric should make a special effort to encourage the attendance of the younger members of the ward at the tithing settlement, especially those who have started to work, even though their earnings are small. The members of the Aaronic Priesthood should have the personal attention of the Bishopric, and they should be encouraged to observe the law of tithing. Members of the Church who are wage-earners or who have incomes and have not paid tithing are classed as non-tithepayers. Aged persons without incomes, women whose husbands are not members of the Church, women who have no income separate from that of their husbands, and missionaries should not be listed as non-tithepayers. The Lord has apointed the First Presidency, the Presiding Bishopric and the Council of the Twelve, and by the voice of revelation he has called them as duly authorized bodies to disburse the tithing. The following are some of the purposes for which tithing is applied: For the maintenance of missions; the building of mission houses, chapels, and the preaching of the gospel in the nations of the earth; for the erection of a temple at Cardston and the temples as they may be erected, and for the operating of the St. George, Logan, Manti, Salt Lake and Hawaiian temples; for the construction and maintenance of schools; the salaries of teachers, and the construction and maintenance of seminaries, for the care of the poor through the bishops of the Church; for hospital treatment and for the erection and maintenance of the L. D. S., Dee Memorial and Idaho Falls Hospitals; and others as they may be built; for the maintenance of the offices of the First Presidency and other leading departments of the Church; for the erection and maintenance of stake tabernacles and offices; for the operating expenses of the stakes; for assisting in the maintenance of wards, including ward buildings, and appropriations of the Trustee-in-Trust toward the erection of meetinghouses; for the expense incurred in receiving, handling, disbursing and accounting for the tithes, and many other similar proper and legitimate expenditures. QUESTIONS 1. Can you tell anything about the observance of tithing by the ancient peoples of the world? 2. To whom did Abraham pay tithing, and' what did he tithe? GUIDE LessoNS 347 3. Can you quote the covenant that Jacob made With the Lord? 4.  What did the Prophet Malachi teach concerning tithes and of offerings. (See Mal.) 5. What benefit does the individual get from the payment of tithing? 7. What is the usual attitude of the n at are the blessings that come to the ti d 13. Can You explain Section 119 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants? 14. What is the United Order? 13. How will tithepaying Prepare us to enter into that order? 16. Write to the Presiding Bishop's Office for Tithing Pamphlets, LESSON IT Work and Business (Second Week in November) LESSON III Literature (Third Week in November) HYMNS py ELIZA R, SNOW » Selected A casual glance at her authorshj she is unusually versatile. She is not only the author of one of € dest doctrinal] hymns in "Mormon" literature, "O my Father," ich is in all Probability the MOst popular of Latter-day Saints 548 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hymns, but she has written one of the best sacramental hymns, one of the best missionary hymns, one of the best hymns for converts, as also that well beloved hymn, "I'll serve the Lord while I am young," sung by the children and youth of Zion wherever the young people of the Church gather together. Turning to the best of her sacrament hymns, we quote the first stanza: "How great the wisdom and the love, That filled the courts on high, And sent the Savior from above To suffer, bleed and die." These lines are repeated by an army of Sunday School children, Sabbath after Sabbath, wherever the organization of the Church has reached. It is justly popular emphasizing as it does the love of God rather than the gruesome details of the crucifixion as many sacrament hymns do. The second stanza brings out the fact that Jesus freely gave his sinless life, "A dying world to save." The third stanza dwells on the strict obedience of the Son to the will of the Father, "Thy will, O God, not mine be done Adorned his mortal life,' With marked aptness in the selection of words the fourth stanza tells us, that, "He [Christ] marked the path and lead the way, And every point defines To light and life and endless day, Where God's full presence shines." The fifth stanza is a summary of the entire plan, "Redemption's grand design," "Where justice, love and mercy meet In harmony divine." In the last stanza the author turns her attention to the meaning of the sacrament; in memory of this gift of love from the Father, bringing redemption to mankind,, "We eat the broken bread; And witness with the cup afresh Our faith in Christ our Head." The author thus emphasizes the symbolism of the GUIDE LESSONS 549 sacrament, which differentiates the Protestant from the Catholic churches. Eliza R. Snow's hymns are 'usually marked by 'poetic flights; yet they are frequently didactic, embodying gems of thought, and of theological wisdom, heightened by the deep religious feeling of the author. Her style is marked by a certain felicity of expression, not easily attained, but generally characteristic of all that she writes. Her thoughts are choice and her diction is correspondingly choice. One of Eliza R. Snow's children's hymns which is deservedly popular, is, "I'll Serve the Lord while I am. Young." It is written in the first person, the author assuming that she is of the youth of Zion, who in the fulness of her soul praises God "for parentage and birth ones the most beloved of heaven that dwell upon the earth." In the second stanza the young suppliant prays, "O, Lord, my parents here preserve, To teach me righteousness, That my young feet may never swerve From paths of holiness; And, like the faithful ones of old Who now behold thy face, May I be formed in virtue's mould To fill a holy place." This stanza needs no special explanation, the author's meaning is perfectly clear, the allusion to the "faithful ones of old" must of necessity stir the imagination. The figure of speech in the closing lines, "May I be formed in virtue's mould To fill a holy place." is especially noteworthy. The third stanza reads: "While youth and beauty sweetly twine Their garlands round my head, I'll seek at wisdom's sacred shrine The gems that never fade. Long may I sing thy praises here Among thy Saints below, And in eternity appear With them in glory too." This is one of the most poetic stanzas to be found in Eliza R. Snow's hymns. The concrete particulars making up the stanza suggests a picture of rare beauty. It is difficult to suggest
550 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
a more attractive picture than that suggested by youth, beauty, and a garland of flowers. This hymn is the favorite hymn of President George H. Brimhall, a man who has devoted his life to the youth of Zion in God's service in the Church colleges, and on the Y. M. M. I. A. General Board. The Latter-day Saints have always held that individual prayers should gush from the soul of the person who offers the prayer, to the Father in heaven. In this hymn Eliza R. Snow has been successful in writing a song of praise which is also a group prayer. This hymn learned by thousands of children in the Primary association and in the Religion class has been and will continue to be held by them in reverence throughout their lives. We now turn to the author's great missionary hymn, "The time is far spent.' This hymn is as successful as a missionary hymn as, "How great the wisdom and the love" is successful as a sacrament hymn. No other missionary hymn is more popular than this well known one, from the pen of Eliza R. Snow. Missionaries sing it in their gatherings, before they depart, on the street corners, in halls, in cities and hamlets all over the world as they seek out the honest in heart. "The time is far spent, There is little remaining To publish glad tidings by sea and by land," This first stanza is notable, calling attention to the fact that little time remains to carry the gospel message. We feel that it is impossible to sing it without an impulse being stirred to do this great work and that promptly. The third stanza is particularly effective in that it embodies the common experience of those who go out as heralds of God's word. The poet calls attention to the fact that in all probability the elders will "be called to endure the world's bitter hate." Nevertheless: "The angels are waiting to crown them with blessing," Therefore: ''Go brethren, be faithful, the promise is sure." The companion hymn of "The time is far spent" is, "Think not when you gather to Zion." "Think not when you gather to Zion Your troubles and trials are through, That nothing but comfort and pleasure Are waiting in Zion for you." The strength of this hymn is precisely the strength of the missionary hymn, The author has embodied experiences com-
GUIDE LESSONS — 551
mon to those who gather to Zion. Saints all over the world, living hourly in anticipation of gathering, have sung this song many times before their desires became a realization, and no doubt many times after as their experience touched the sentiment of the hymn. Any poet who can be a poet of common experiences is destined to be popular; for this reason Henry W. Longfellow, James Whitcomb Riley and Edgar A. Guest have been and are popular. Eliza R. Snow has embodied in her verse the daily experiences of the Latter-day Saints, her people, and because she has done this she can not fail to be popular, among her people, just as long as those experiences repeat themselves in their lives. Her most exquisite hymn so far as poetry is concerned is, "O awake, my slumbering minstrel." No more beautiful hymn has been written than this, which is full of imagery and inspiration.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Define the words didactic, versatile and felicity.
2. Call to mind the lines of some sacrament hymn that plays upon the gruesome details of Christ's crucifixion,
3. Name hymns of Eliza R. Snow that might be used as sacrament hymns, as well as, "How great the wisdom and the love."
4. When you repeat the words "faithful ones of old," what do you call to mind?
5. What picture comes to you when you think of being "formed in virtue's mould?"
6. What are the "gems that never fade," that the author speaks about?
7. Select your favorite stanza from the hymn, "I'll serve the Lord while I am young."
8. Read to the class the hymn, 'The time is far spent," and give three reasons why you think it is a good missionary hymn.
9. Read the hymn, "Think not when you gather to Zion," and select three experiences that you think converts, coming to this country, are reasonably sure to have.
10. Which hymn of Eliza R. Snow's is your favorite? Why?
11. Explain the poetic beauties of, "Zion prospers all is well," ("O awake! My slumbering minstrel!"')
552 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON IV. Social Service (Fourth Week in November. )
JUVENILE DELINQUENCY.
DEFINITION. In order that people may live together in peace and harmony society has established certain rules for the direction and control of conduct. A failure to live according to the rules which society has made tends to tear down society. Delinquency is unsocial conduct or conduct in conflict with the rules of society.
FACTORS IN CAUSING DELINQUENCY. In order that children may develop into social beings, years of training and discipline are necessary. To give this training and discipline, society has established social institutions,—the home, the school, the church and the state. Sometimes delinquency results from the failure of one or more of these institutions to properly function in the life of the child. Sometimes the institutions are functioning properly, but the child becomes delinquent because of physical or mental defects, which he has inherited or acquired. So it is said that delinquency may represent either the reaction of a normal child to disordered social conditions, or the reaction of a disordered child, to normal social conditions. The problem in each case is to determine whether the child itself needs attention or whether the child's environment needs modification, and the solution comes through bringing the child back to normal, if possible, or in adjusting the environment to suit the child's needs.
THE HOME AS A FACTOR IN DELINQUENCY. The home is the oldest of the social institutions and at one time included all the functions which are now exercised by the church, the school, and the state as well. It is the foundation on which these other social institutions are builded. It is the most important of the social institutions in training the child in social conduct, because the child is under its influence in the most impressionable years of its life. The influence of the home is more intimate than that of the other institutions. The failure of the home to properly function during the period of development of the child, when his character is unstable, often results in the development of permanent unsocial or delinquent traits. The records of the Juvenile Court of Salt Lake City, show that practically 40 per cent of the children before the court, for delin-
GUIDE LESSONS — 553
quency come from homes where the parents are separated or divorced, or one or both of the parents are dead. Doctor Healey of the Baker Foundation of Boston in the study of 1000 cases of juvenile delinquency concluded that defective home conditions were present as a factor in causing the delinquency in 65 per cent of the cases. The defect in the home may consist not only in the homes being broken, but also by reason of the failure of the home to provide the ordinary needs of life in the way' of income, food, shelter and clothing; by reason of bad sanitary and health conditions in the home; by reason of extremely crowded conditions in the home; by reason of a lack of harmony, moral character, religion or education of the parents; by reason of the failure of the parents to exercise a wise or fair control over the physical, mental or moral welfare of the child. Thus the defect may be in the physical or the spiritual aspects of the home, and to the extent that the home is deficient in these matters to that extent it is likely to fail in its function, with resulting delinquency. In order to carry out its function in the prevention of delinquency the home should teach the child at least these four things: first, love and sympathy; secondly, obedience; thirdly, property rights; and fourthly, co-operation. The child which has not felt the influence of love and sympathy in the home is likely to obey anti-social tendencies. The child which has not learned to obey parental authority is likely to disobey the law as he grows older. The child, who has not learned that he must respect the property rights of his brother and his sister and leave their things alone is likely to be found engaged in petty thievery as he grows older. If the lesson of co-operating with the other members of the family is not learned in the home the child seldom learns to co-operate successfully with his fellows in the community. The law of our State. Properly places the responsibility of controlling the conduct of children under 18 years of age on the parent and holds the parent criminally responsible for wilfully or negligently failing to exercise this function. If the parent is unable to control the child then the law provides for relieving the parent of the duty and responsibility, and placing the child in the custody and control of the State.
THE CHURCH AND THE SCHOOL. The church and the school supplement the work of the home in training and disciplining the child for social life. Delinquency often commences with truancy from school, and truancy may be caused by a bad school as well as by a bad boy. Under our present school law which makes school attendance compulsory up to eighteen years of age, it is necessary that we greatly enlarge the
554 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
vocational aspects of our education in order that we may adapt the school to the needs and capabilities of the child. Special schools and classes for the misfits are essential if the schools fulfill the obligation which they have undertaken under our new compulsory school law. The church likewise often fails to properly function in the case of the misfits. Our Church organization is prepared to give the most perfect training to those who' seek it. But we often fail completely to reach those who must seriously need the influence of religion. The juvenile court records show that not one in ten who come before the court is an active church worker.
THE STATE OR COMMUNITY. The two chief needs of the community in order that it may properly function in preventing juvenile delinquency are: first, proper vocational help, and secondly, attractive and supervised recreational opportunities. An idle brain is the devil's work shop, yet few communities make any concerted effort to provide employment for juveniles. So also our community amusements have become largely commercialized and are not always therefore of the most wholesome kind. The best way to avoid delinquency is to provide attractive substitutes for delinquency. The fact that in the State of Utah last year over 9000 children were brought before the juvenile courts in spite of the training of parents, and of schools, and of churches and the prohibition of the law, shows that delinquency is attractive. It can not be cured simply by saying, "Thou shalt not.'' It can be reduced by furnishing through the community attractive substitutes. Vocational helps and good clean constructive recreation are two of the best substitutes which the community can furnish.
QUESTIONS.
1. In what ways does juvenile delinquency manifest itself in your community?
2. Do your juvenile delinquents have a normal home life?
3. What effect do bad. Physical conditions in the home have on a child? Illustrate.
4. What are the essential conduct lessons the home should teach the child?
5. Is the juvenile court functioning as a helpful agency in your community? If not, why?:
6. What duty do the school and church owe the delinquent?
7. Is any effort made in your community to provide satisfactory employment for juveniles?
8. What unwholesome recreation is indulged in by your children?
9. Are attractive substitutes being provided?
Are You a Subscriber to the Relief Society Magazine?
If not you are missing an opportunity to keep in touch with Relief Society work; and also the opportunity to help solve your Relief Society and home problems. Send your subscription to
Relief Society Magazine 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock - Best in the Market WILL LAST A LIFE TIME—36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED
Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.
SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered
THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2; 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."
Bureau of Information Temple Block — Salt Lake City
Going to Entertain at Dinner?
Let us enter your order and deliver it in a manner that will cause you to also give us your future orders—daily.
"DICKINSON'S" The Quality Service Store. CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES. 680 East 2nd South Street. Hyland 60.
We are in step with the declining Market.
W. R. McDONALD, Pres. D. H. CANNON, Mgr.
CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET
Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE.
Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling
Warning! ATTENTION!
To those who return Relief Society Magazines to this or any other office, or other second class printed matter. On account of the postal regulations we are forbidden to enclose written letters in second class packages. Please send letters in the regular way and at the regular rate. In many instances it has cost the Magazine five times the amount of postage on account of enclosed letters in packages. Hereafter all such will be charged against the one sending the packages.;
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
We ask our patrons to please take notice.
Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month
For the past TEN MONTHS. One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have You Seen It?
Dependable The Deseret News Progressive
The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine, of which they will be glad to dispose at the price quoted below:
12 Vols. Of 1915 Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1918 Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols. Of 1919 Cloth Bound.. 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919 Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920 Cloth Bound.. 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920 Leather Bound 3.00
15c Extra for postage.
All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg. Salt Lake City, and make appropriate gifts.
Utah State National Bank
The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them.,
Officers
HEBER J. Grant, President. CHARLES W. NIBLEY, Vice-President. CHAS. S. BURTON, Vice-President. M. HENRY T. McEWAN, V.-Pres. & Cashier. JOHN W. JAMES, Asst. Cashier. ALVIN C. STRONG, Assistant Cashier.
Salt Lake City, Utah.
Bureau of Information of the Relief Society Magazine See Cream
For the "Good old Summer time" BEST BY TEST. DELIVERED EVERYWHERE P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Phone Was. 3223
Ask Your Dealer for
Z. C. M. I. Western Scout SHOES
Have You Received Your Copy?
Send for the special circular published by the Utah Agricultural College outlining the comprehensive work offered in education and pedagogy, with emphasis on training for the rural teachers. It will tell you the wonderful opportunities open to you at the College when the Fall Quarter begins, Monday, September 12. At the same time, send for the 1921-22 General Catalog and the beautiful illustrated circular issued by the Institution.
Address, The President's Office, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah.
FALL QUARTER OPENS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12
The Utah Agricultural College The Home of Efficient Education LOGAN, UTAH
A PHOTOGRAPH
Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language—a language understood by everybody. Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"—the kind they make at
Phone Was. 2861 6 Main St., Salt Lake
Lumiere Studio
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy.
VOLUME VIII OCTOBER, 1921 NUMBER 10
The Sign of Quality
THE NECK OF GARMENTS
Comfort
Style
Price
107 Merino wool, medium wt..... 3.75 109 Merino wool, the garments you desire, select your size and style from our list and mail order to us, and samples will be submitted upon request. We will Prepay all postage
90 Cotton, heavy wt, unbleached 2.50 50 Lisle, gauze wt., bleached... 2.65 heavy weight... 4.95 65 Mercerized, lt. wt., bleached 3.75 05 Australian wool, lt. wt 6.00 Pure Glove Silk... 12.00
BURIAL CLOTHES
Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices
Call at our Burial Clothes Department 22 Bishop's Building Prompt attention given all out of town orders
TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER
Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286
The Columbia Grafonola is the only Phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop.
$100.00 For this Beauty Take 15 Months to Pay
Daynes-Beebe Music Co.
"OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH"
ESTABLISHED 1862 CAPITAL $250,000
Have you a ring or pin with the Birthstone for October? If not, write or call on
W. M. McCONAHAY The Reliable Jeweler 64 So. Main St. Phone W. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah
Latter-Day Saints Garments
APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT
No. 104 Light Summer Weight (Bleached) -.......-....-..-----.---$1.40 111 Light weight, cotton................ 1.50 120 Light weight, bleached. 1.60 Medium weight, cotton... 2.00 122 Medium weight, bleached... 2.25 190 Heavy weight, cotton............ 2.25
No. 124 Heavy weight, bleached..........$2.50 150 Extra white Mercerized.................. 3.00 110 Medium wool, mixed.............. 3.00 116 Heavy wool, mixed.................. 4.00 117 Snow White Silkaline.............. 3.40 118 All Merino Wool 5.50
MODEL KNITTING WORKS No. 657 Iverson St. Salt Lake City, Utah
What Do Your Children Read?
Guiding children in their reading is a big, vital problem. There are so many wholesome, inspiring volumes that you cannot afford to let them read anything trashy or cheap. Co-operate with our Juvenile Department. Let us suggest Books that are high class, Books that meet the personal tastes, adapted to various ages. Write for lists.
Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street
Ladies Tailoring and Dressmaking
Alterations reasonable. 715 So. 8th E. Hy. 4152-W.
Send your hemstitching, accordion plaiting, buttons and dry cleaning by parcel post. Quick Service.
Salt Lake's Leading Opticians
LOUIS A. JAMES and DONALD C. JAMES OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS
Globe Optical Company East 2nd South (Walker Bank Bldg.) Salt Lake City, Utah
The Relief Society Magazine
Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
CONTENTS OCTOBER, 1921
Relief Society Nurse Class............................................. Frontispiece The Sum of Life.................. Helen Kimball Orgill 555 Graduation Exercises Relief Society Nurse Class.......... Amy Brown Lyman 557 Sweet Singers of Zion............. Edith Ivins Lamoreaux 562 The Wage of Sin......... .......... Lucy Guyman 571 The New Circular .................................................... 576 Beautiful Eyes............................................ Abbie R. Madsen 579 Out of the World............ ...........G. Milton Babcock 580 In Memory of Utah's First School Teacher.................... 586 The Revelation....................Hannah D. Tomsik 588 Excursion Salt Lake Temple workers............................. 589 Relationship of the Child to the Temple.... Clara W. Beebe 593 Notes from the Field..................Amy B. Lyman 595 World Happenings................ James H. Anderson 599 Editorial: Motives or Basis of Judgment................ 603 Guide Lessons for December.............................. 605
An Exact Model Your Own Figure
Make your own Dress Form according to methods taught by the Agricultural Colleges and U. S. Dept. Of Agricultural Cooperating
THE LOUISE DRESS FORM SET Contains all the necessary material Price $1.00 postage fully prepaid
Carpenter Paper Co. SALT LAKE CITY Address all inquiries to Dept. 12
THE SUM OF LIFE
At times my life appears to be so futile; So different from what once I had desired, When in those days gone by with rose-hued day dreams, Of fame to come, my youthful soul was fired.
I thought to do so much, but in the planning Forgot the round of duties large and small, The daily grind, the tasks that bring no glory. Which rise before me as a circling wall.
Perhaps this life is like a wondrous fabric, Of intricate yet gorgeous-flower design, Each one must do a portion of the weaving, According to the plan of Will divine.
Then, 'tis for me to mar not this vast pattern, Nor doubt Eternal wisdom of the plan, Until at length, in deep relief completed, With eyes made bright life's picture I will scan.
—Helen Kimball Orgill.
RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS
THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. VIII OCTOBER, 1921 No. 10
Graduation Exercises of the Relief Society Nurse Class Amy Brown Lyman.
The graduation exercises of the Relief Society Nurse Class were especially interesting this year, for this is the first class which has had opportunity to receive practical training and experience in a hospital. The women of this class will be known as Relief Society Nurses' Aids. The exercises were held in the parlors of the Relief Society on the evening of Monday, August 1, when the rooms were filled to overcrowding with the friends and admirers of the class and of the Relief Society. The members of the graduating class looked very charming in their blue and white striped gowns and snowy white bibs and aprons, as they sat in a semi-circle in the front of the hall, and later, as they received very graciously and gratefully their certificates from the General President of the Relief Society. President Clarissa S. Williams, who for years has been chairman of the Relief Society Nurse School, presided, and the following program was carried out: Hymn, 'Come, come ye Saints;"' opening prayer, Mrs. Elizabeth Crismon; solo, (selected), Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward; report, Mrs. Thea Drake; class song, class of '21; address, Superintendent B. F. Grant; "Has our course been worth while?" Mrs. Annie Nielson; duet, Mrs. M. Fisher and Miss V. Pratt; address, Dr. Samuel H. Allen; awarding of certificates to graduates, President Clarissa S. Williams; benediction, President Rudger Clawson. In awarding the certificates to the class, President Williams reviewed briefly the history of nursing in the Relief Society. Yearly, for many years, classes similar to this, although usually much larger, have completed the course offered by the Relief So-
558 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ciety, and have gone to their home wards where they have been a real blessing in the local communities. From the very beginning the General Board has made every effort to give the members of each nurse class an opportunity for practical experience in nursing as well as theory, and various arrangements have been made to this end. Some of the local doctors have from time to time permitted members of the class to assist in cases of illness, and the city board of health at one time allowed members of the class to accompany graduate nurses upon their visits to the sick. A room was finally fitted up in the Bishop's Building where practical demonstrations in nursing were carried on for the benefit of the class. But the class of 1921 is the first Relief Society class which has had the opportunity of going into a real hospital and of caring for the sick there, under the supervision of trained nurses. When the General Board first made application to the L. D. S. Hospital for this institution to permit the Relief Society Class to enter there for practical training and experience, there was grave doubt in the minds of hospital authorities that this special privilege could be granted the Relief Society without interfering seriously with the standards of the hospital training school and with the hospital itself. And indeed, there was cause for misgivings on the part of the authorities of the institution, for the granting of this request, they realized, was nothing more nor less than the introduction into the hospital of a one year course in nursing. It was finally decided that a Relief Society class might enter as a sort of experiment to be discontinued at the end of a year if the plan failed to work. The class entered, the members have made good, and the hospital has now decided that the Relief Society Hospital Course may continue. The members of the class have been housed in a cottage on the hospital grounds and have been under the charge of Mrs. Thea Drake, R. N., who has been their house mother, class teacher, and training supervisor. For the unprecedented opportunity given the Relief Society in its nursing program, the General Board is most grateful to the authorities of the hospital, to Superintendent B. F. Grant, who has so kindly permitted the innovation and put up with all of the inconveniences incident to it, and to Mrs. Thea Drake, hospital graduate nurse, who was willing to undertake the supervision of the work and to test out the experiment. President Williams explained that one of the requirements in the Relief Society Nurse School has always been that a certain specified number of days be given the society by the members of the class, in charity nursing, and she said that the members of this class have signed contracts to give in their home wards
RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS — 559
thirty days' service, or one hundred twenty-four hour service, whichever will be the most convenient and needed. In her address, Mrs. Drake spoke of her class as pioneers, for indeed this is the first class in the Relief Society in the state of Utah, or anywhere else, so far as we know, which has been permitted to enter an accredited hospital for a one-year course in nurses' aids work. There were many misgivings in the beginning as to how the Relief Society class would fit into the institution, and there have been some misunderstandings and griefs; but the experiment has been a success and the class has made good in both class work and nursing service. The class began with seventeen. During the year two of these married and three were compelled to give up the work on account of poor health, so that the class now numbers only twelve. The class has had some handicaps through illness. Nine operations have been performed upon its members in the L. D. S. Hospital, and in addition, five members have been treated in the hospital clinic. Because of loss of time through illness, some of the members have yet some time to make up. One member finished her service on August 1, two on August 2, and the remainder of the class will be through within the next two months. One member of the class has decided to enter the regular hospital training school for a three-year course. She will transfer her credits, for which she will be allowed six months' time. Superintendent B. F. Grant expressed his great pleasure in attending the exercises, and in having the opportunity to express his appreciation for the splendid work done by the Relief Society class. He felt, indeed, that this is a pioneer class for, so far as he knows, it is the first class for nurse attendants or aids which has ever been allowed training in an accredited hospital. The innovation or experiment has been fraught with difficulties but it has been a success, and the hospital is now willing to enter a second class for the same sort of work. Instead of taking a class of 17 or 20 at one time, the hospital has decided to accept for this course 10 or 12 nurses on the 15th of August of each year, and a similar number on the 15th of February following. In the opinion of Superintendent Grant there is a real need for graded nurses. The supply of hospital graduate nurses is inadequate and even if it were not, there are many people who are unable to pay for the services of a registered nurse. There seems therefore to be a place for nurses' aids to go into the homes of the middle classes and take care of ordinary ills. Superintendent Grant expressed the hope that the members of this class would never give the impression that they are graduate nurses. This, he considered, would be a discourtesy not only to the L. D. S. Hospital but to the Relief Society. There is a place in the community for the
560 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ability, hospital course This service is greatly appreciated by the hospital and those who have applied for the work this September, in Members of the class, and particularly by those who are mothers and who left their little children to the care of others, Difficulties and, who has ever been with them to sympathize with them in their sorrows and sickness, to encourage them with their work, and
RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS — 561
death rate among child-bearing women. Dr. Allen recommended visiting nurses throughout the Church, one or more for each ward. To produce this army of workers, the president of each ward Relief Society, under the direction of the bishop, might, from time to time, call women on missions of from one to three years to attend hospital training schools to prepare for the work. Upon returning to the communities, hospital graduate nurses and nurses' aids might be given regular salaries by the Relief Society organization, and in turn serve wherever sent by the organization. A hospital graduate nurse, acting as a visiting nurse, would be able, not only to make many calls personally in a day, but she would be able to supervise aids and others who are caring for the sick, and direct all the nursing service in the ward. Her services would be available to all and nominal prices charged for her visits. The Relief Society would make these charges and apply such receipts on her salary. Charity service would be given those in need. In times of epidemics, a visiting nurse in each ward would be invaluable. Nurses' aids would fit into this scheme admirably as assistants to the graduate nurses in charge. Instructions by these nurses in regularly formed clinics would also be a part of the scheme and would help materially in educating the public along health lines. Such a plan as this, or one similar to this, would in a few years not only result in adequate nursing service, but in a great constructive health crusade, which would reduce the death rate and raise health standards throughout the Church. Dr. Allen commended the members of the class for their excellent work. He characterized them as self-sacrificing, intelligent and most faithful workers. He congratulated the Relief Society on arranging for their course, and the hospital authorities for permitting the aids' course, which, while it is a pioneer movement and a radical movement, is also a forward-looking movement. Following are the names and addresses of the class:
Relief Society Nursing Class
Milliken, Mrs. Klara.............................Salt Lake City Dalton, Miss May............................... Rockville, Utah Elton, Mrs. Wilmerth........................... Stafford, Arizona Evans, Miss Charlotte.......................... Alberta, Canada Jarvis, Mrs. Mary B,........................... Hinckley, Utah Morrill, Miss Rhoda............................ Tridell, Utah Nielson, Mrs. Annie............................ Richfield, Utah Pratt, Miss Veda............................... Preston, Idaho Spencer, Mrs. Mary C........................... Dublan, Mexico Stevens, Miss Marie............................ Parowan, Utah Willis, Miss Hazel............................. Blackfoot, Idaho Westover, Mrs. Ethel P......................... St. Joseph, Arizona
Sweet Singers of Zion Life Sketches of Emily Hill Woodmansee and Julia Hill Ivins. Edith Ivins Lamoreaux
In the summer of 1849, two merry hearted girls might often be seen wending their way along the green lanes of England, from their home in Warminster to Chalford, six miles away. The "Mormon" elders were preaching a new religion at the latter place. In spite of the opposition of their parents who were strict adherents to the Wesleyan faith, these girls, Emily and Julia Hill, were determined to hear all about this "new faith" at any cost. Born in 1831 and 1834, the girls were inseparable, Julia was the eldest, but the message had come to her sister Emily first. Both were deeply religious, searching the scriptures together, and each yearning in her hungry soul for the fulfilment of the promise of the return of the everlasting gospel, as Jesus had taught it. When but twelve years of age, Emily had been permitted by her parents to go with her cousin Miriam Slade to hear the "Mormon" elders preach. To the surprise and dismay of her family she had boldly announced upon her return her belief in the doctrine taught, and her determination to be baptized when of age. Opposition surrounded her on every side, Julia being her only comfort and adviser. To her Emily confided and explained as best she could these wonderful "new truths." It was at this time Elder John Haliday visited their locality, and both girls by stealth managed to attend a private cottage meeting. Upon hearing his humble but impressive testimony, Julia exclaimed, "if ever there was a man of God, he is one, and I shall be a Latter-day Saint." Emily's impression of that memorable meeting is given in her own poetic words: "The Eternal spoke, and honest hearts observing The voice and message of the Holiest One, Hail it as if their hearts had e'en been yearning For light and truth e'en since their lives began."
SWEET SINGERS OF ZION — 563
It was at this time Elder Haliday gave Emily a blessing, promising her that she should yet write both prose and poetry, comforting the hearts of thousands. Soon after this Julia became apprenticed as a milliner at Northampton, and after much persuasion the parents consented for Emily to join her sister there. Together they searched for and found the branch of the Church which had been there established in the early 40's; they attended the sacrament meetings, and paid into the Church fund regularly from their scanty earnings. In March, 1852, both girls were baptized, Emily being but sixteen and Julia nineteen. Though young to decide for themselves in such an important step, the girls were amply able to conduct their lives with decorum, having left a home of culture and refinement, where faith in God and purity of life had always been taught. Four long years must elapse ere they could earn enough to come with other Saints to America. In May, 1856—always memorable to them—without even the privilege of an adieu to family and friends, since these were still bitterly opposed to their course, the girls set sail on the ship Thornton, with Elder James Willie in charge of the Saints who accompanied them. From New York they went by rail to Iowa City, where was organized the famous hand-cart company over which Elder Willie was made captain. The famous company
EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE JULIA HILL IVINS
564 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
that was to walk over one thousand miles—to Zion. A graphic description of this terrible journey, as penned by one of its band, John Chislett, is found in Whitney's History of Utah, Vol. I. Emily says in her memories that Julia, who was never very strong, "gave out," and was forced to ride part of the way in the little cart drawn by loving friends, who "took turns." But Emily, who always manifested an indomitable will, expressed her determination to '"'walk all the way," which she did. When cold weather came, with severe snow-storms and scarcity of food, the girls nearly perished with hunger and cold. But they pushed on, singing with the others each day that cheering song, "Come, come, ye Saints," upheld and sustained by the Power which had given them a testimony that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. Among those sent from Utah with provisions for the relief of these sufferers were Israel Ivins and W. G. Mills. Both girls must have admired these sturdy pioneers on sight, as they married them soon after entering the valley. With all the trials incident to the early days in Utah, Julia's marriage to Brother Ivins proved a very happy one. She often said she married her husband because of falling in love with his first wife—"Aunt Anna," as she was always lovingly called, who was the mother of President Anthony W. Ivins. In 1861, Julia with her husband and family, went south, in answer to the call of President Brigham Young to assist in the settlement of what is now known as Utah's Dixie. They traveled in an old prairie schooner making the road as they journeyed each day, only to meet the formidable sight of sunflowers and sage-brush upon their arrival. Theirs was the third wagon to "set camp" at St. George. Only those who endured the trials of that ''call" have language adequate to describe. It. But Julia was brave and cheerful as usual. She bore her husband eight children, four of whom died in infancy. Those who lived to maturity were indeed a comfort to her, reflecting the integrity and love of God, instilled into them early by their mother. The writer considers as her greatest legacy the promise of a patriarch, who in blessing her in girlhood said: "The faith of thy mother shall be in thee." Emily's choice in marriage was not such a happy one. After the birth of their first child. Brother Mills went on a mission to England. After four years of absence, during which Emily could scarcely keep starvation from their door, he sent her word he would never return, proving untrue to the faith. She says of this trial: "In the month of June, 1857, firmly believing in the principle of plural marriage, I entered into it. The result of this SWEET SINGERS OF ZION 7 a marriage was one child only, for a little more than three years after said marriage, my husband, William G. Mills, went on a mission to England; and after I had worked for upwards of four years to maintain myself and little one, my husband himself sent me word that he never intended to set foot in Utah again. And here I must be allowed to say in behalf of myself and other true women who have endured such separations, and to whom, perhaps, it is counted as nothing, no one can realize what such an ordeal is, unless they have passed through it. All that I had hitherto suffered seemed like child's play compared to being deserted by the one in whom [ had placed the utmost confidence, who himself had fixed an impassable gulf between us by ignoring the very principles by which he had obtained me, leaving myself and little one (for all he knew) to sorrow and destitution. Harder still, was it for me to believe that this abandonment had been deliberately planned. I could not accept the fact until President Young (speaking to me of my husband) emphatically said, 'Don't you know he asked for his mission? If he hadn't, I wouldn't have sent him till the day of his death!' That was enough for me, I comprehended all that it meant, and independent of Brigham Young's word I was forced to believe it. "T had striven hard to keep out of debt—determined to do my part as a missionary's wife, that whem my husband came back he might not be hampered on my account. Nevertheless, 'hard times' stared me in the face, and I was almost overwhelmed by circumstances beyond my control. During the winter season of 1863-4, (owing to the war and many circumstances combined) provisions and other necessaries commanded almost fabulous prices in Utah, and I could not see how I should ever be able to keep the wolf from the door. To add to my trouble, the house I occupied (and to which I had been led to believe I had some claim), was sold over my head, and thus I had the prospect of being homeless, at a time when rents were doubling and trebbling in price. One night when I was so weary with overwork and anxiety, pondering what to do, these words impressed me as if audibly spoken, 'Trust in God and thyself.' Instantly I arose and composed the following lines: "A precious boon! Is a friend indeed, Greet him as such when his face you see; But those who fail thee in time of need— Shun them as false friends should shunned be. They proffer this, and they promise that, But promise, also, is a doubtful elf. So would'st thou weather the storm of life— Trust thou in God! And thyself. 566 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Keep a brave heart, though the waves roll high! Let thine aim be trite as the magnet's steel; Look unto God! With a steadfast eye, And trust him always, in woe or weal, Man may deceive, but God is true; Mortals may pander to lover or pelf, Like "angel's visits" firm friends are few, Trust thou in God! And thyself. "Should friends, nor fortune, nor home be thine— Cringe not for this, nor beg for that; The earnest seekers will surely find Something to thoroughly labor at. 'Tis a cheering maxim to keep in view— That diligence leads to plenty's shelf; And whatsoever*thy hands pursue— Trust thou in God! And thyself. "What though thy flesh and thy strength should fail? Surely 'twere better to wear than rust; Than never to try, t'were better to die, In striving bravely to fill our trust; But fear not thou, for God is good— He is the giver of strength and wealth. When faithless feelings or friends intrude— Trust thou in God! And thyself." "Immediately after this my way was opened up before me, almost within the week I secured another home, which if nct very commodious had for me the satisfying charm of being m~ own." In May, 1864, she married Joseph H. Woodmansee, by whom she had eight children. Her life was full of trial, the support and rearing of her family devolving largely upon her mother wit, but she was always hopeful, her cheery smile impressing all her associates and friends. Her fearlessness and undaunted faith in God's goodness are manifest in all her poems and songs. Sister Woodmansee developed through her years of poverty a strong tendency toward business ability attained by but few women in Utah. President Heber J. Grant, who has always been one of her ardent admirers, tells a story of her thrift. To quote his own words:. "While sitting in the bank one day the Spirit whispered to me that Sister Emily H. Woodmansee was in financial need. I accordingly drew from my account at the bank $50 and proceeded with it to her home. On the way I debated whether I SWEET SINGERS OF ZION 567 should present this to her as a gift, or offer it to her as a loan. Fearing I might offend her, as I remembered her high spirit, I decided upon the latter course. As I shook hands with her I offered her the money as a loan, without interest, with promise never to accept it until she was in comfortable enough circumstances to return it of her own choice. "With tears in her eyes Sister Emily confessed that she and her family were almost destitute. Twenty-five dollars of it was immediately spent for provisions and coal. With the remaining twenty-five dollars she took an option on a piece of property. In thirty days she sold the property for $700. With this she bought and sold many other parcels of real estate, showing the keenest sagacity and wisdom in the business world It is needless to say the $50 was returned with thanks to me, and praises to God, for a true friend in her hour of need." The beauty of Emily's life and sacrifices is reflected as in a mirror in the songs which she wrote. WHY I WRITE How oft in darkness and in pain, When' weariress my soul oppressed, My muse has breathed some soothing strain, That lull'd me like a child to rest; Has sung of faith, and hope, and trust, Of patience and obedience, too, | Of providence forever just; Of God the good, the wise, the true; Has lured my soul to trust in him; Who ever' doeth all things right. So when I sought the shadows dim I nothing saw but wondrous light. In gratitude, I can but sing; For present peace, and sorrows fled; With the fond wish to comfort these Whose hearts may bleed as mine has bled, What though my lyre may never wake Creation with its matchless sound, Or thrill the world to ecstasy, Or strike the depths of love profound. 568 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ' ) One aim shall still inspire my soul, One purpose shall the muse invite, One impulse shall my pen control, The wish, to onward help the right; To bless, indeed, a child of need, To help the weary soul along, To bid the humble heart God speed— Such is the purpose of my song. I care not for the critic's tongue, The sceptic's sneer or scorner's frown, An aim sincere, a conscience clear— The voice of truth will live them down. Some I have seen whose loftier muse, Reflected far their glowing light; Whose tuneful lays excited praise, And wreathed their brows with garlands bright. ~ Who, by some fatal impulse led, Fell, even like some brilliant star, From the lofty height of the infinite, Down where the depths of darkness are. Perhaps their talent worked their woe, Or proud ambition, who can tell, Its direful promptings once, we know, Led Satan and his hosts to hell. Grieved by their fate, my spirit cried: Is this the end of meteors bright? © God, forever be my guide, And lead me in the paths of right. For ever tune my simple lyre, In service of the humble, pure, For those who truly love the truth, And for its sake all things endure. And if my songs shall e'er impart Courage and hope to those in need, Or comfort one despairing heart,. I shall be recompensed indeed. Onan Emily H, Woodmansee SWEET SINGERS OF ZION 569 MY SISTER In loving remembrance of Julia Hill Ivins, suddenly called home, February 14, 1895. Two of a household band, Two in the flush of youth, Came hither from their home afar, Led Zionward by Faith's bright star, And love of God and truth. Boughs from a parent stem, By sacred kinship wed, Are parted—one of them Is left—and one is dead. Oe: Vainly I deemed thy death, Would yet be long deferred, But oh, my dear old life-long mate, I dreamt not we should separate Without one parting word. Ne'er did my heart foretell That death so soon would call And wrest thee from us all, Ere thou couldst say—''Farewell." * Hail, ransomed, cheery soul! Rescu'd from earthly bands, Uplifted from this world of ours, Thou art at home amid the flowers That bloom in fairer lands, Thou art at home, indeed, With friends beloved of yore, From all affliction freed, Where vexing cares are o'er. Restful the blissful change, Yet active thou wilt be, Thy useful efforts will not cease, Rather, love's labors will increase, And bring more joy to thee. Expanded by thy scope, Exalted is thy sphere, And yet, we fondly hope, Thou wilt at times be near. 570 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Canst thou be mindful yet Of souls still tempest tossed, Still wrestling with Life's whirling tide, Weary of troubles multiplied, Of hopes so strangely crossed? Oh, if thou hast the power, Befriend us here below, Attend us in the hour When through death's vale we go! Triumphant words, "Well done," For life long toil divine amends, Full compensation, true success, Comprising endless happiness, Shared with delightful friends, Yet O, this heavy day, In loneliness we bow, Lord! Be our present stay, Uphold and help us now! Emily Hill Woodmansee. BUSY DAYS Mrs. R. A. Madsen The days for canning fruit have come, The empty bottles stand in rows And beckon to you with a nod, "Come fill me up before it snows." And you answer them, "Of course, We'll fill you, every one; Bat ju: t you please remember We think it no jolly fun. "And don't you dare to fizz and spoil And waste our time and sweets, But just be ready when you're called To fill in with the meats. "For the school folks nearly eat a ton Of everything that's handy, So don't feel blue, for we need you To take the place of candy." The Wage of Sin Mrs. Lucy Guyman. Nauspa sat far back in the Navajo hogan, her eyes large and expressive, were downcast and sullen. How she hated the filth, and squalor of her surroundings, how she hated the ragged, dirty, half-starved children playing without, the shrill voice of her aunt, and the sharper tongue of her Grandmother who sat just outside of the hogan putting the finishing touches to a blanket she had been weaving, talking the while in a loud querulous voice. Near Nauspa, in the far corner of the hogan, on a pile of sheep skins, wrapped in a robe of picturesque designs, lay her grandfather. He was old, very old. His hair was white as snow, his eyes had looked upon so many moons they were dim now, so dim he must be led about, A great chief he had been in his day. Stern and unmovable as the rock, but age had softened his heart and his voice was mellow and low. He seemed to sense the mood of his grandaughter, for though she had spoken on work, he stirred, and, putting his hand on her bowed head, said, "What is it, my girl? Has the tongue of the grandmother wounded thee again? Or has the bad spirit come again, to worry and molest thee?" At his words the hard, sullen look left the girl's eyes and they became wonderfully soft and tender, only for a moment, for they became hard again as she spoke. "Yes, father, it is the bad spirit again, it fills my heart with hate and makes my lips only desire to speak curses; curses on the white father who brought me into life, curses on the desire I inherited from him; my white skin that blisters and burns and proclaims my white blood wherever I go. I hate myself because I am unlike my mother's people, for O, I hate this life. I want things beautiful and clean as they were at the school. I want to learn the white man's ways, although I hate them. I hate my grandmother because she has never given me anything but hatred. I hate the Great Spirit because he allows all this to be." As she spoke, she arose, and, reaching her arm upward, finished in a wailing cry. "Oh, I'm bad, all bad!"; "Hush, hush, my child," the old man said. His tone was calm, and low, yet commanding. "Thou must not talk thus. Come, listen to thy grandfather, am I not wise with the learning of many years? Do I not know where of I speak? Hate is not for the heart of the young. Has all my teachings been in We RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE vain? No, no, it is only a mood and will pass. Nauspa, I do not like to hear you speak so of thy father. He married thy mother according to our law, and was kind to her always. It is true he left her to die in sorrow, but we do not know why he went, perhaps he does not live. I who have lived so many snows have learned much. I do not judge. And oh,. My girl, guard well thy tongue; do not speak so of thy grandmother. She is old, and if she hates thy white blood, it is only that she loved thy mother dearly; she -only uses the sharp tone to hide her sorrow. Child; be patient with her, for she is fast nearing the grave." "Nauspa, Nauspa," came the sharp voice of the grandmother. "Come, girl, take your horse and take this blanket to the white trader." As she spoke she took the blanket from the loom and began rolling it up. As she finished Nauspa rode up ready to take it from her hands. "Oh, girl, you can be quick when you try. Now Nauspa, mind you, look sharp; pit thy cunning against the white trader. We must have flour, coffee and sugar, (glancing sharply at the girl), and if you can outwit him enough, you can have shoes; perhaps thy own need will sharpen thy wit a bit." Nauspa took the blanket, glanced reproachfully at the old squaw and rode swiftly away. Her horse was good and the ride soothed her, but the dark mood was still upon her as she pushed open the door of the trading post and entered. The day was stormy and cold. A group of Indians stood about the stove making and talking in lazy good humor. On a bench behind the door sat a strange white man. His coat collar was up and his large sombrero was pulled low, almost hiding his face. He started as the Indian girl entered the store and seemingly with a great effort controlled himself. Crouching down on the bench he pulled his hat lower, and sat as if asleep until Nauspa having completed her purchase departed in sullen silence as she had come. "Nauspa is in the blackest mood I ever saw her," remarked the young trader to his wife as she came in. "You know she is a half breed," he said as an after thought, to the stranger. At his words the stranger arose and walked with unsteady step to the door. Once outside he lifted a face, white and drawn, the face of a man suddenly grown old. "God, God," he said, but his tone was more appealing than profane.;. For some moments he stood while some horrible thought THE WAGE OF SIN 573 seemed to grip him; then a new light came into his eyes, he squared his shoulders and stood erect. "Yes, yes, if—if it is—I'll do my duty. God helping me I will, as I see it. Goodby, dear friends, goodby—goodby—goodby, Annie." Then lifting his eyes heavenward he went on in tender tones. "Mother—mother, do you know? And if so can you forgive?" Pleading a headache the stranger ate no supper that night and sitting in the shadow, far from the glow of the lamp, he remarked in casual tone to the trader, "You said the Indian girl was a half breed, would you mind telling me her story?" "No; her story is no secret, but a sad one," replied the trader. "Philip Darrow, was her father's name. He was from the East, I believe, only a kid when he came out here, driven by the dread of the white plague; life or death, I guess it was; and a living death it must have been to him, the life he led out here. Never had been out of a city before in his life, and man, what this desert must have seemed to a boy like that! His mother was a widow, poor but proud. She used to send the boy a little money each month, but not enough to live on, that is how he got into the clutches of that man Madson. Madson was running a store then, three miles east of here. Soon after the boy came he decided to sell out, and left the boy there to sell the few remaining goods and care for the place. "The boy was alone for months at a time; what he must have suffered from homesickness and loneliness. Wonder he did not commit suicide; but the desire for life is strong in the young, and so he lived that life two years. "One winter he had not been to the store for so long, Mr. Carter who then owned this store, became uneasy and went over to see what was wrong. Mr. Carter found the boy sick and a young Navajo squaw nursing him. It seems she came to the house one day and found him sick, and so became his self-appointed nurse. For a month he was too ill to be left alone, and after he got well—well she just stayed on. "He married her according to the Indian law, and they seemed to be happy in a way, but as time went on and the boy became stronger, he seemed to regret the step he had taken and would get moody spells and wander away, staying days at a time. One day he went away and did not return. Every one thought he had deserted the squaw and gone home, as by this time he was quite well. "The squaw waited a long time, but at last went home to her people and soon after gave birth to a baby girl. Not long after the baby's birth it became plain to all that the mother was
574 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to become a victim of the same dread disease that brought him to this desert. "When Nauspa was four years old, she sent her to the Indian agency, meaning to educate her like her father's people, hoping some day if he lived he would claim her.. She died when Nauspa was six years old. < "The grandmother, bitter, at the death of her daughter, refused to let Nauspa attend school any longer. Nauspa has her father's features, and her soul is white also; what this life has meant to the poor girl no one knows. It is not for me to judge him when he married the squaw; but there couldn't have been much manhood about him, if he knew about the child, not to see that she is cared for," concluded the trader. "Perhaps he did not know of the child," said the stranger in so strange a voice that the trader started. 'Well, that's possible," he replied, "but"—here the trader gazed hard at the man in the shadow. "Say, you spoke as if you knew something about this." The stranger paused. "Yes," I knew the boy and I know him now he is a man; believe me I know he is not all bad, weak I will admit, but circumstances often make us that. Yet the sin is no less a sin and the wages must be paid. Now let me tell you mine. The first part you know, yet you can't know what those years of exile and loneliness meant to the boy and what even the companionship of the squaw was to him for he was not without gratitude and he meant to stick; believe me, he did. Oh! You don't know about the letter that came from his mother, begging him to come home and see her for she was sick and dying. Well what could he do? He couldn't take the girl home. It would kill his mother. So he just left. When he reached her he found it all true, his mother very sick, but she didn't die, she was bedridden for ten years. He was her only child, her only support, and so he just remained and kept silent. They were very poor, and when she died he didn't even have money to pay for the burial, and so he got work and paid for it all. Then he meant to come back, but there was a girl, a sweet womanly girl, whom he had learned to love, and he found she loved him in return; but he couldn't speak, for he had a wife. The girl did not know it, but his knowledge kept him silent, silent. While he watched the light go out of her eyes and a pained look take its place, it was then he knew he must come back, find the squaw, and make things right if he could. He did not dream there was a child, you see he was only a boy. Don't you see there is only one thing he can do now. Take the girl, educate her, and, in doing that, perhaps her mother will see,
THE WAGE OF SIN — 575
understand and forgive. Truly the wages of sin is death, and I am dead, dead to my friends the woman I love, my hopes, my ambitions all dead." For ten years the trader and his wife, visiting in Albuquerque, called at the school for Indian children, which they knew Nauspa had attended to learn if possible something about her. They requested to see the superintendent and were shown into his office. A big, stalwart man came forward as they entered, and their surprise was mutual, as they recognized Philip Darrow, Nauspa's father. Philip Darrow grasped the trader's hand in a hearty grip, for he would ever be grateful to these friends of Nauspa's for the part they had taken in persuading her to go away with him. "How glad I am, dear friends, to see you again," he said, "and Nauspa will be delighted. You must have supper with us tonight" then added as an afterthought, "Nauspa is attending college here and will graduate next year, then I will resign my position here and we are going east." As the superintendent was very busy, they soon departed, with the promise of a visit that evening. When they arrived at the superintendent's home, Nauspa met them at the door; with a glad cry she threw herself into the arms of the trader's wife. "Dear, dear friend," she cried over and over again. The good woman held her at arms length and gazed at her long and tenderly for she had loved the maid. There was little in the girl, so full of life and grace, to remind one of the sullen-eyed Indian maid she had known. Her large, expressive. Eyes seemed the only thing bequeathed her by her Indian mother. At supper she presided at the table with grace and loving thoughtfulness. There seemed to be perfect understanding between father and daughter. The evening was spent in pleasant talk, and as the two men stood a little apart at parting, the trader looked at his friend and said. "Darrow, I can not go without telling you how glad I am, and proud, too, of the progress Nauspa has made. You have done your duty well, my friend, and if I am not mistaken it is not all duty now." "You are right dear friend, I do love Nauspa, and I am sure she loves me and trusts me, too. Repentance is always in order, so they say. Well, I have tried to make right the wrong I did. Nevertheless, the wages of sin is death; I am dead, dead to all I once loved. Cut off by my own sin. The wages must be paid."
The New Circular Issued by the Presiding Bishopric
It is comforting to the faithful officers and teachers of the Relief Society to find their position and relationship to the bishops clearly and generously recognized in the new circular just issued by the Bishop's Office to all the bishops in the Church. Our women have labored for over three-quarters of a century in the cause of "charity pure and undefiled." The star of their devotion will not only glorify them, but it will form one of the most original and potent chapters in the history of the world and of the Church of Christ ever written or experienced. There comes a time, after great men have pioneered a great country or a great movement, when lesser men sit down and tell people all about it. The history of the charity work of the Relief Society will never be fully written; but when even partially done all students and honest thinkers will agree that so far as is recorded, no other such pure, unselfish, intelligent organized devotion has ever before been manifest. We may learn some things from modern efficiency experts, but we will never improve on the faithful and gentle sympathy extended regularly from neighbor to neighbor by the unselfish women of the Relief Society System.
To Presidents of Stakes and Counselors, Bishops of Wards and Counselors, Stake: and Ward Clerks, and all Church Authorities.
Dear Brethren—Your attention is directed to the instructions in the following pages, compiled and prepared by the Presiding Bishopric to aid you in transacting the business of the Church within your jurisdiction. We heartily approve the precepts, regulations and rules set forth in this "Circular of Instructions" and desire that, as Presiding Authorities of stakes, wards and missions, you will observe them and make them known to the priesthood and others affected, with a view to concerted action, unity and harmony in the labors of the priesthood. With sincere appreciation of your faithful efforts and helpful cooperation in the past in looking after the spiritual and temporal interests of the people under your care, we remain,
Your brethren, Heber J. Grant, Charles W. Penrose, Anthony W. Ivins, First Presidency.
THE NEW CIRCULAR — 577
To Bishops and Counselors, Stake and Ward Clerks.
Dear Brethren.—In order to insure uniformity in the method of conducting the business of the stakes and wards, as it pertains to the officers of the Presiding Bishopric, we direct your attention to the instructions contained on the following pages; and we hope that those having business with the Presiding Bishopric will become familiar with these instructions; and preserve the book for reference.: We commend the authorities of the stakes and wards for their diligent service in conducting the temporal affairs of the Church, and we trust that we shall continue to have their faithful cooperation and assistance in this important department of Church activity.
Your brethren, C. W. Nibley, David A. Smith, John Wells, Presiding Bishopric.
CARE OF THE WORTHY POOR
Fast Offering
The first Sunday in the month is set apart as a day of fasting and prayer. Upon this day, the Saints should remember the poor, and make contributions for relieving their needs. The Saints should make their offerings, even though there are no poor in the ward to which they belong. In wards, in which the Fast Offerings are not needed for the poor, the amount collected should be remitted to the Presiding Bishop's Office. In wards in which the Fast Offerings and Relief Society donations are not sufficient to keep the worthy poor from want, the Bishop may apply to the Presiding Bishop's Office for authority to use the tithes. Charity funds should be used, under the direction of the Bishopric, exclusively to assist the worthy poor.
Care of the Poor
The Bishop of each ward should be personally acquainted with the conditions of the poor in his ward, and the Relief Society should cooperate with the Bishop and act under his direction in caring for them. The Bishop should use his influence to secure opportunities for persons to obtain a livelihood in his ward; to provide homes for newcomers; in fact, to help members to become self-support-
578 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ing. The care and relief of the poor is not so much a question of giving charities to assist them as it is to help them to become self-supporting. This labor should be done on a well defined plan, outlined by the Bishopric of the ward and in consultation with the Relief Society officers. Each individual case should be treated according to its necessities, The agencies to labor in the ward as aids to the Bishopric are the ward teachers, Relief Society Presidency and the Relief Society visiting teachers. The ward teachers should promptly notify the Bishop of any case of sickness, distress or need that they may discover while visiting the Saints, The Bishop will see that proper relief is given. The Bishopric should invite the Relief Society officers to meet with them monthly, or oftener if necessary, to consider general relief work, and to discuss plans for looking after the poor, the sick and those in distress. There is in operation in the states of Utah, Arizona, and Nevada, a law known as the Widow's Pension Law, which authorizes the Probate Judge or County Commissioners to provide allowances for widows having dependent children. Where there are widows with dependent children, the Bishop should take the necessary steps to see that they obtain the benefits of this law.
Relief Society
The ward Relief Society will labor under the direction of the Bishop and will be his chief aid in caring for the poor and unfortunate. The Relief Society teachers should visit every family once a month, or oftener if necessary, and report immediately to the President of the Society cases of need, poverty, distress or sickness. The President, under the direction of the Bishop, will see that relief is promptly given. In large centers of population there may be some advantage in cooperating with local charity organizations for the purpose of preventing the duplication of charity work, but no organized affiliation of any kind whatever should be effected without permission first being obtained from the Presiding Church Authorities. When charitable help is given regularly, records of the same may be kept, providing the Bishopric of the ward so desires. Where temporary aid or charity is rendered, the present form of records will be sufficient.
Charity Funds
Funds for charity purposes should be derived from the Fast Offerings, the Relief Society Poor Fund, private benevo-
THE NEW CIRCULAR — 579.
lence. And, when conditions render it necessary, from the tithing funds, All charity funds should be disbursed under the direction of the Bishopric; funds collected by the Relief Society may be disbursed by the Relief Society officers for emergency and other purposes, and reported to the Bishop. The practice of making drives or public collections for our poor should not be followed in Latter-day Saint communities, except when specifically directed by the First Presidency. Immediate attention should be given to each case of need. Publicity should be avoided in dealing with the poor. Confidences of those in distress should be held inviolate; and the use of names should be avoided, unless absolutely necessary. The work of the Relief Society is not merely in disbursing means in a charitable way, but the very important part of their work is visiting the sick, comforting the poor and those who are in distress, praying with them and administering such spiritual comfort as the Gospel of Jesus Christ alone provides.
BEAUTIFUL EYES By Abbie R. Madsen
Dear baby, with your beautiful eyes of blue That trustingly look into mine, I seem to see down deep in your soul A spark of the light divine.
Do you recall those yesterdays When we played on the Golden sands? Methinks, sometimes, you surely do, As you reach out your tiny hands.
But, baby dear, please stay with us And teach our eyes to shine, With love and honesty and faith And the virtues that are thine.
Out of the World By G. Milton Babcock (Continued)
"Walter, I feel as if I could almost say that I, too, know that 'Mormonism' is true. I'm worried, though, how the folks will take it. I don't know as they have ever heard anything particularly about it. I suppose I would have to bear the same kind of persecution as you; it seems to be the lot of a true follower of Christ. It must be hard, though, to have one's folks turn against you." "Yes, it is hard to bear persecution," agreed Walter; "but I've always kept in mind what Sister Guiles told me when I was first studying the gospel. She said: 'Walter, whatever you do, never hide your candle under a bushel. I don't mean by that that you need to be boastful or to force your belief onto another, but never be ashamed of the gospel of Christ.' She told me that she had had mobs gather outside her door, and had been scorned and abused by different people, but never had she hesitated in acknowledging that she was a 'Mormon.' I have tried to follow her advice, Elizabeth. I believe that all the world respects a person who has the courage of his convictions. 'No one will dare jostle you on the road if you know where you're bound for, is what Uncle Billy used to say; 'but if you're zigzagin' along, first thing you know someone'll lock a hub in your wheel!' " "Say, Lizzie," greeted Dorothy Nelson reproachfully as they came in the door, "it's a wonder you wouldn't. Notice a person when you drive by. I stood on the front porch and yelled my head off, but you went by as if the Old Nick was after you.' "It wasn't her fault, Dorothy," interposed Walter, come to the rescue. "I was in a hurry to get to meeting— "Ahem! Warned Elizabeth, but it was too late. "What meeting was that?" inquired Mrs. Nelson sharply, noting the interruption. "Oh, just a little meeting at the Guiles',' Walter answered, endeavoring to assume an indifferent attitude. "What kind of a meeting was it?" she persisted. "It was a little meeting of some of the members of Walter's church, and I went along for a ride," explained Elizabeth. "I thought he went to the Episcopal church," observed Dorothy. "I don't see why they should be holding a meeting in a house when they have a nice church up there.". Elizabeth looked at Walter helplessly. He determined to
OUT OF THE WORLD — 581
avoid the issue no longer—come what would. "Have you ever heard of the 'Mormons?' " he inquired. "Mormons!" exclaimed Mrs. Nelson stridently. "Good gracious! You don't mean to say that you are a 'Mormon?' If you think for one minute that you're going to lure my girls into that Church, you're grandly mistaken." "Hello, what kind of a succotash is this?" inquired Mr. Nelson as he came in the door and noisily stamped the snow from his feet. 'How are ye, Walter?" he greeted. "Why, papa, mother's scolding Walter because he goes to the 'Mormon' Church," attempted Elizabeth, indignant tears in her eyes. "That'll do!' cried her mother. "I know what's best for you. Don't you ever dare to go to another meeting of that kind as long as you live!" she commanded, "Humph! This is a funny state of affairs," remarked the father. 'Mormons,' eh? Well, I've heard tell of them—a lot of hard things, too; but I believe in bein' fair and hearing both sides. Come, mother, cool off, and let's have some supper," he persuaded as she started into the kitchen. "You and I will confab about this later, Walter, if you don't mind." "I can't stay long, Uncle John. All I can say is that my conscience is perfectly clear, and I think I know what I'm doing. I don't wonder at Aunt Frances being so vexed—most people usually are because they've never heard the 'Mormon' side of it. I'm sorry she feels that way about it, though, and guess it would be better for me to go," he concluded somewhat independently. "You needn't be in a sweat about goin' back to Hudson View tonight," soothed his uncle. "I've got some news for you; you just stay where you are and I'll fix things up with the old lady," he grinned. A tense atmosphere overshadowed the supper table and Walter was heartily glad when the meal was over and the adjourned to the parlor with his uncle. "Now, Walter," began the latter, "tell me about this newfangled religion you've got into. Mind you, I don't bank much on churches myself—I believe as I want to and allow the other fellow to do the same. Tell me how you come to get hitched to these 'Mormons.' " Thus encouraged and reassured Walter plunged eagerly into his story. His uncle listened intently, interrupting occasionally with a question, and when Walter had concluded, he said by way of comment: "I don't see why you shouldn't change your religious belief if you want to. Religion ought to develop and progress as well
582 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
as anything else. People who do old things in a new way are always ridiculed and persecuted at first. Changes come about, as a rule, by the efforts of a few, and from what you say, Joseph Smith must have been far in advance of his time." "Yes, but he did not introduce anything really new," objected Walter mildly. "Fiddlesticks! That's what they all say—that theirs is the 'old time religion," averred the host. "Changing the subject: I told you I had some news for you. The men at Hudson View went out on strike today, and we expect to go out here this week in sympathy!" Walter was astonished. "What are they striking for?" he asked incredulously. "A ten per cent increase in wages. You know the average mill-worker gets $1.08 for nine hours' work, and goodness knows, that isn't enough for a man to get along on these days. Talking about religion though, reminds me of what I heard a sure-enough minister say once: "You can't make a man's soul responsible before the judgment and deny him his rights on earth. If you preach salvation on Sunday you must fight for human rights on Monday, or be a hypocrite. You can't make men precious to God in the Church and make them cheap on the street and in the factory.' "There's our superintendent—he says he wouldn't give the men a cent more if they were starving—says half of them don't earn what they get as it is. He is careful to draw his fat envelope every Saturday night, though; and on Sunday he goes to the Methodist church, and I've heard him myself—I used to go to that church, you know—get up in experience meeting and tell how God loves the poor sinner; but during the week, if the men ask for higher wages or better working conditions, he spurns them. He urges people to appeal to God for relief, but he himself will grant none!" "Well, that's one thing about the 'Mormon' Church," observed Walter; "it's a seven-day religion, and teaches that the best way to show our love to God is to show it toward our fellow man. They try to look after their poor by what they call 'fast offerings.' Once a month they fast and give the money saved to the Church for the benefit of the poor. This does away with poorhouses—so the missionaries tell me—and protects especially the widows and children." "Yes, but what do they do toward bettering the condition of the poor permanently—by securing them steady work, living wages, and decent houses to live in? Probably nothing; and that's the trouble with all your churches—they are always harping about the beautiful world beyond and the heavenly joys the
OUT OF THE WORLD — 583
people will have there—or the sizzlings and fryings, one or the other—while they wink the eye at the lack of justice and mercy here. They are ever trying to feed the spiritual nature, while the pangs of hunger are gnawing at a man's vitals. They. Hold out beautiful mansions above, while people are forced to live in wretched hovels here. They have withdrawn themselves into their shells, like turtles; but the world, through the discoveries of science, has gone on without them. Christ sure had the right idea: when he got through feeding the spiritual food, he called for some barley loaves and fishes! "There's the clock striking nine now," he broke off. "It's too late for you to start out tonight. The horses are safe in my shed, and you'd better stay here and go in the morning." "Yes, I guess I'll stay," decided Walter with a yawn. "Good night, boy; I'll call you early in the morning."
XII.
Before daylight the next morning Walter started for home. As he neared the foothills, the beautiful, star-shaped crystals began to fall, lodging on every branch and twig and fashioning rope-like wreaths and garlands in the wildwood. Walter tucked the great Buffalo tighter around him and pulled his fur cap down. It wasn't long before he looked like a great snow-man driving, with feathery reins, two hoary steeds that bounded forward with the tinkling of silvery bells. As he neared Hudson View, two men stepped out and hailed him. They were pickets on the watch for strike-breakers, but upon learning who Walter was they allowed him to pass. Walter soon turned the horses over to the livery, and, after stopping at the house for a moment and greeting his mother, started for the office. As he neared, he noticed groups of men standing about—strikers discussing the turn of affairs. He attempted to enter the office, but was halted by a guard who demanded his pass. Walter explained his identity, but the guard was obdurate. The difficulty was settled by Walter suggesting that the chief clerk be called to identify him, which was done. He had hardly reached the inside of the building when the chief clerk broke into a tirade of abuse such as Walter had never before experienced. The actions of the men had evidently worked him up to the highest pitch. "Nelson!" he thundered, "if you calculate to stay in this office, you've got to stop handin' about these d 'Mormon' books. This town ain't gonna stand for it, and I won't either. I ". "Why, Mr. Bryan, I haven't been distributing any tracts—
584 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
only to friends who wanted them. I don't see why I should not have the right to do as I like about it," replied Walter spiritedly. "You'll find out whether you'll do as you like about it! The men had a mass meeting last night, and your case came up. They said if you didn't cut it out they'd tar and feather you and kick you out of town. I give you fair warning—you'd better stop it. Git to your work now!" Walter flushed hotly and would have replied, but he realized that Bryan was laboring under great excitement, as it was well understood he was a radical anti-union man whom the strikers can be more likely to drive from the community than anyone else. Not a wheel turned in the mill—the tie-up was complete. The superintendent kept Walter rushing all day writing letters to the New York headquarters explaining the situation and confirming his telegram asking for special guards to protect the plant, adding that, though the town was now quiet, there was no telling what would happen when they attempted to import strike-breakers. Walter learned thus from the "inside" that the company had known for some time of the union agitation in the plant, and as a result of information gathered through spies sent to work in the mill, a number of the agitators had been discharged. This was usually accomplished by the use of a "blue envelope" instead of the usual white one on payday. No warning whatever was given the unfortunate victim of the corporation's resentment—the color of blue was the first and only notification, and, as might be expected, the recipient often "saw red." This was what had happened to Larry Connor, a strapping fellow who was generally recognized as the best paper-maker in the mill. He at least had charge of "number one" machine, the largest of the nine. The officials had known of his union agitation for some time, but they hesitated to "blue-envelope" this fearless, rugged Irishman. However, the previous Saturday a blue envelope had finally been handed him, When the new shift was due to come on at eleven o'clock that night, not a man showed up for work on number one machine. The superintendent attempted to switch men from the other machines, but this only served to spread the disaffection, and when the shift came off at seven o'clock Sunday morning, the plant was compelled to completely close down. Scarcely a man was loyal to the company, Walter's "Quote Bible by the yard" friend, John Perkins, being about the only man of importance to remain, which surprised Walter greatly.; Walter had been in bed but a few hours Tuesday night when he was awakened by the clanging of bells, the firing of guns of all descriptions, and the general noise of men shouting and
OUT. OF THE WORLD — 585
running down the street with dogs yelping at their heels. From his point of view at the bay window, he saw cows gather at the railroad crossing just a few rods away. Soon he realized the cause of all the excitement, for down the track and across the great wooden trestle nearby came a darkened train bearing the first shipment of strike-breakers from New York City. Walter had heard they were on the way and that the company would attempt to run them in under cover of darkness, hoping to get them by before the strikers could be aroused. The attempt, evidently, was not to succeed, for the train had gone by but a few minutes when scattered firing broke out and soon a heavy explosion took place. Shortly afterward the outfit came limping back, and Walter could see by the light of the street lamp that nearly every window in the coaches was broken, and the rear platform of one of the cars was completely smashed. The train had hardly crossed the great wooden trestle when the structure burst into flames. The strikers afterward claimed that the fire was due to hot coals dropping from the engine. In any event, they cooperated with the village fire department, composed mostly of strikers, in subduing the flames. Extensive repairs would have to be made, however, before the trestle, which was owned by the paper company, would be ready for use again, and it was with a feeling of satisfaction that this method of running in scabs would be cut off for a time, at least, that most of the men scattered to their homes. However, Walter saw with alarm a crowd gather in front of the house, and his anxiety was increased when he heard one say, "He lives upstairs." He felt, at first, that it was because the office force had failed to go out though one of the former employees had told him that the union wanted the office men to stay on the job so when the strike was won, operations could be immediately resumed... Walter had a sympathy for the workers— more of an instinctive feeling than otherwise, for he had known and himself felt the pangs of hunger. However, the next remark from the street enlightened him as to the cause of the gathering: "Come down here, you dirty 'Mormon;' we've got a nice coat of tar and feathers for you!" A general chorus of guffaws followed, and Walter hastily retreated from the window and finished dressing. His mother was greatly excited and pleaded with him to escape through the back window onto the roof of the landlord's kitchen. "No, mother; I'll talk to them, I think I recognize a voice in the crowd," he determined resolutely.?
(To be continued.)
In Memory of Utah's First School Teacher
Prompted by a desire, that "Service" should be rewarded in a durable manner, Mr. Philip L. Orth and his wife (Sarah Schow Orth) proposed that a Bronze Tablet be erected to the memory of Mrs. Mary Jane Dilworth Hammond. Miss Mary J. Dilworth arrived in Salt Lake Valley with the second company of Pioneers, in September, 1847, And in the following October, she assembled the few children that were with the Pioneers and held school, teaching in a tent. This was the first effort in teaching that is recorded in the Territory of Utah, and was the first stone in the foundation of the present magnificent school system of which Utah is proud.
MONUMENT, HUNTSVILLE. UTAH'S FIRST SCHOOL TEACHER — 587
Miss Dilworth married Elder Francis A. Hammond, and after performing a mission with her husband to the Sandwich Islands, they settled in Huntsville, in 1865, where Elder Hammond was later ordained bishop. She was an active worker, both religiously and in civic affairs in the young ward, holding the office of president of the Relief Society, being the first sister to hold that office in the ward. She died in Huntsville, in 1877, and her body was the first interred in the present cemetery. The proposition for a monument was presented to Elder David O. McKay, of the Council of the Twelve, who heartily endorsed it, and used his good offices in its promotion. To take charge of the erection of the monument, Bishop Joseph L, Petersen selected as a committee to find a suitable rock, Philip L. Orth, Peter H. Olsen, Jr., and Arthur Grow; and as a committee to prepare the design and inscription, President Thomas E. McKay, Architect S. T. Whitaker, Mrs. Amelia Grow, Philip L. Orth, and Peter M. Jensen. The Committee found a rock on the mountain side near the mouth of South Fork canyon, and its conditions and dimensions, are as nature designed, unhewn by human hands. It is of sedimentary sandstone formation (probably converted by metamorphic action into a quartzite), eight feet nine inches long, two feet eight inches wide, with an average thickness of ten inches. In contemplating the monument it is wonderful what a beautiful rock it is, pink color, smooth surface, the dark vein running through it, and withall without a blemish, check or seam. It is a slab that will endure for ages.
MAYBELL HAMMOND FIELDING ANN D. GROESBECK.
588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
It is placed on the school campus in a concrete base, 41 inches by 62 inches and three feet deep, and is over seven feet above the surface of the lawn. It stands as a token for service. The monument was unveiled at the homecoming celebration, held in Huntsville some three years ago; the late Elder Fletcher B. Hammond, then her oldest living son, was present at the ceremony. The cut of the monument and inscription follow:
In Honor Of The First School Teacher in Utah Mrs. Mary Jane Dilworth Hammond Taught First School in Salt Lake City, October, 1847 Came to Huntsville with her husband, Bishop Francis A. Hammond, 1865 Where she resided until her death 1877 Utah's First Free School Was Established at Huntsville.
THE REVELATION
We look upon our neighbor in his grief, And wonder how he bears the bitter pain. In our weak way, we try to give relief;: We try to help and comfort, but in vain.
We see him lay the dear ones in the dust, And bravely struggle on along life's way; We marvel at his loyalty and trust, And that he still can toil and pray.
We pray with throbbing hearts and bated breath— "Oh! Spare me Lord such sacrifice, such pain! To see my loved ones lying cold in death, I could not bear—though they shall live again
Yet, bowed beneath the Cross and left alone— When death takes all that makes life's living sweet, We feel God's hand clasped close within our own, And love and understanding is complete.
—Hannah Deady Tomsik.
Excursion of Salt Lake Temple Workers (To Huntsville, Ogden Stake)
The cordial invitation issued by President Thomas E. McKay of Ogden stake for temple workers of the Salt Lake Temple, to take an excursion as the guests of Ogden City, on August 12, 1921, was as cordially accepted by President George F. Richards and his associate authorities of the temple. It was no light undertaking to transport three to four hundred people from Salt Lake City by auto to Ogden City then on to the Hermitage, in Ogden canyon, for breakfast, passing from there through the rest of the beautiful canyon up to Huntsville; but President George F. Richards and his counselors, Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, together with the chief recorder of the Temple, Bishop Joseph Christensen, were quite equal to the occasion. Each temple worker received a card of invitation which was extended also to the companion of each temple worker, The card informed them to be at the east temple gate at six o'clock ready for the six-thirty start from the city. President Heber J. Grant together with President Seymour B. Young, were the honored guests of the occasion, President - Penrose being in California and President Ivins in Deseret. The day was perfect in its glorious sunshine and the ride was a rare treat to all in the early morning crispness of the canyon breezes, while some of the dear workers enjoyed the rarest treat in the world to them in the long auto ride. President Grant led out exactly at six thirty. Each auto contained a goodly company of merry hearted voyagers intent upon receiving to the fullest extent the promised pleasures of the day. In President Grant's own automobile was a group of his congenial friends; Mrs. Agusta W. Grant, his wife, Mrs. Libby Snow Ivins, wife of President Anthony W. Ivins, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune who was here on a visit from her home in California, Mrs, Ann Dilworth Groesbeck and Mrs. Susa Young Gates, with Bishop Davis as chauffeur. Reaching Ogden the party were joined by President Thomas E, McKay and a number of Ogden's dignitaries, Mayor Francis being in the party. The ride to the Hermitage was clipped off at a swift pace for the road was practically unobstructed and paved all the way. The beautiful scenes which flashed past the vision
590 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
as quick turns were made around the shoulders of the mountains, hills were climbed, dug-ways passed over, or the walls of impassable rock guarding the swift roaring stream below, all made the ride one of those wonderful experiences which thrill even the most hardened traveler with its grandeur and mountain charm. Under a shady bowery the sisters of Ogden had breakfast waiting. While the hungry guests regaled themselves, music was furnished by sweet singers and instrumentalists from Ogden. Breakfast over, the party soon took up the line of march, this time in groups of ten automobiles only, so that stops could be made at the Wells, where a most remarkable flood of water from mammoth artesian wells pours systematically into a concrete reservoir. Leaving the Wells the party soon reached Huntsville and found another gracious welcome, from the local authorities of this lovely village, in the fastnesses of the mountains. The meetinghouse was decorated and festooned with garlands of flowers and white bunting, which gave a festive air to the simple interior. On the stand sat the visiting Church and Temple authorities with the Ogden and Huntsville stake and local authorities. The program of the day was as follows: Speeches by, President Heber J. Grant, President Rudger Clawson, Elder George Albert Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, Elder Richard R. Lyman, Elder Seymour B. Young, Presiding Bishop Charles W. Nibley, Historian Andrew Jenson, President Thomas E. McKay, Bishop Joseph L. Peterson, and others. One of the performances of the day was the introduction by President McKay, of a fine sturdy young man and his wife, surrounded by a group of fine young children. President McKay, in introducing them said, that these parents had four children until one day last spring they awoke as the proud possessors of seven living children. The triplets, three sturdy boys, were held up to view by the parents and Elder McKay as a direct evidence of the hygienic value of life in that mountain retreat. The mayor of Ogden, in welcoming the guests, was eloquent, and timely. In the course of his remarks, he referred to the proposed temple in Ogden city and assured the Presidency of in the erection of so splendid an architectural embellishment to their already beautiful city He paid tribute to the Latter-day Saints and expressed his deepest appreciation at their friendship and support.; Elder George Albert Smith, just returned from presiding over the British Mission, made an eloquent and somewhat lively talk concerning the good people of Huntsville and the pleasure
EXCURSION OF TEMPLE WORKERS — 591
of the brothers and sisters who had come from Salt Lake in accepting the hospitality so generously offered. President George F. Richards, in behalf of the temple workers themselves, expressed gratitude and pleasure at the beautiful entertainment offered to them on this occasion. Elder Joseph F. Smith followed in much the same train. Bishop Nibley was happy in his allusions to the splendid family which had been introduced to the crowd and suggested that as the father was a ward clerk one might expect even greater things from the bishop of the ward. Elder Lyman, President Seymour B. Young, Elder Andrew Jenson confined themselves, as did the other speakers, strictly to the five minute limit. President Rudger Clawson referred feelingly to the temple excursion undertaken twenty-five years ago to Brigham City, under the Presidency of Lorenzo Snow. He quoted from the remarks of President Wilford Woodruff on that occasion in which President Woodruff had given a wonderful prophecy and promise to the people. President Clawson's remarks were appropriate and were much appreciated by the temple workers present. The following are the remarks of President Woodruff, as referred to by President Clawson: When I have the vision of the night opened continually before my eyes, and can see the mighty judgments that are about to be poured out upon the world, when I know these things are true, and are at the door of Jew, and Gentile; while I know they are true and while I am holding this position before God and this world, can I withhold my voice from lifting up a warning to this people, and to the nations. Of the earth? I may never meet with this people again; I cannot tell how that may be. But while I live and see these things continually before me I shall raise my warning voice. Now, the question I wanted to ask you is this: We have millions of people on this earth, and over them all hangs a cloud of darkness almost entirely upon their shoulders. Can you tell me where the people are who will be shielded and protected from these great calamities and judgments which are even now at our doors? I'll tell you. The priesthood of God who honor their Priesthood, and who are worthy of their blessings are the only ones who shall have this safety and protection. They are at our very doors: not even this people will escape them entirely. They will come down like the judgments of Sodom and Gomorrah. And none but the Priesthood will be able to escape, God has held the angels of destruction for many years, lest they should reap down the wheat with the tares. But I want to tell you now, that these angels have left the portals of heaven, and they stand over this people and this nation now, and hover over the earth waiting to pour out the judgments. And from this very day they shall be poured out. Calamities and troubles are increasing in the earth, and there is a meaning to these things. Remember this, and reflect upon these matters. If you do your duty, and I do my duty, we'll have protection, and shall pass through the afflictions in peace and safety. Read the Scriptures and the ???revelations. They will tell you about these things. Great changes are at our doors. The next twenty years will see mighty changes among the nations of the earth. You 592 / RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE | will live to see things, whether I do or not, I have felt oppressed with the weight of these matters, and I felt I must speak of them here. It's by the power of the gospel that we shall escape. President Heber J. Grant referred to the devotion of men and women who labored in the temple, and who built the foundation of this Church during pioneer days. He expressed his gratitude for the beautiful singing rendered by Lucy Gates Bowen, grand-daughter of President Brigham Young. The unique record made by Latter-day Saints in every land, at home and abroad. President Grant spoke of the monument to Utah's first school teacher, Mary Jane Dilworth Hammond, which he had just visited in company with her niece and daughter. He referred in glowing terms to the Dilworth pioneer family, stating that wherever you find their descendants there are superior, refined people. He referred to William W. Riter as a careful student and. A great preacher of righteousness. He closed expressing pleasure to be with the Saints on that occasion. Seldom has the singing of Utah's nightingale, Lucy Gates, so thrilled her hearers as on that occasion; she sang "Though deepening trials," and then followed that with "O, ye mountains high." The program by local musicians was especially fine and the whole entertainment provided was worthy of the occasion. At the close of the program, luncheon was served on the meeting house lawns where stands the monument erected to the first school teacher, Mary Jane Dilworth Hammond, who died in this little town. Her daughter who unvailed the monument, and her niece Mrs. Anna Dilworth Groesbeck stood beside the monument while a picture was snapped of them for the Magazine. At the close of the program, the return to the city was made in the delightful cool of the evening. Long remembered will be this excursion as marking another mile-stone in the history of the Salt Lake Temple services. Relationship of the Child to the Temple Clara W. Beebe The child is our pledge to the nation and to our God. No greater responsibility has ever been given to mankind than that of parenthood. One of the greatest of these responsibilities, is teaching the child concerning the holiness of the House of the Lord. Doc. And Cov. 68:25. We should endeavor to create in the heart of the child, a desire to enter the House of the Lord, and to so conduct his or her life, as to prove worthy of partaking of such privileges, and to enter therein through a keen desire, rather than to feel it a bounden duty. Explain the meaning and importance of the ordinances performed therein. "Before children are sealed to parents or adopted, all the other ordinances to which they are eligible should first be attended to. All the members of a family should be sealed to their parents at the same time, if possible. If the sealing is to another person than the father or mother, that fact must be stated. Children under eight years of age do not need to have any temple ordinances performed in their behalf, other than being sealed to parents if they were not born in the covenant. Those eight years of age must be baptized, and dead children, who attained over fourteen years of age in life, should be endowed before being sealed to parents. No person should have the ordinance of sealing of children performed for those who are not of their own lineage." Explain the first work children may do: to be baptized for themselves and then have the privilege of doing baptismal work for the dead. Take the child to the temple and allow him to do the work for his ancestors, and in doing so use every precaution to impress upon the child the sacredness of the ordinances performed therein. Teach reverence and respect for every part of that holy building, both inside and outside. The same sacredness should be manifest whenever the ordinances performed are discussed, whether in or out of the home. Through the teachings of his parents, Jesus manifested great respect for the temple. The tender age of twelve years found him an interested and frequent conversationalist with the great doctors and teachers of the temple of that day. Then, too, we find that, in 594 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE appreciation of God's goodness in so graciously bestowing upon her the noble gift of motherhood, Hannah took her boy Samuel to the temple to worship her God and to instill in his little heart a sacredness of that holy structure and the work performed therein. 'When the child grows old enough to understand the family ties, explain how and why, through obedience of father and mother and of children, those ties may last through all eternity, and teach that eternal happiness can only be enjoyed, in its fulness, by a continuation of such relationship. Exercise great pains to make clear that it is possible if they live worthy, and are obedient to the glorious principles of the gospel. Urge for an abiding love and respect to exist among the members of a family that the greatest desire of each, may be for a continuation of the same, not only in this life but the life to come. Explain the beauty and solemnity of the temple marriage as compared with civil marriage. God and his angels are in the House of the Lord to see and hear, and are anxious to bless any contracts made therein, if we do our part. Do not allow any thought of mystery to surround the ordinances performed. Explain that they are very serious and very sacred, in fact, too sacred to be discussed outside of that holy edifice. The garment received there is a token of the obligation assumed; treat it with respect; teach that it is a cloak of honor and protection, and is something to be much desired. Parents sometimes desecrate these privileges, then grieve if the child sins in ways not so important, unconscious that they are responsible. Example is the greatest teacher, especially the example of the parent. One of the means that we have of repaying for the wonderful gospel blessings we, as parents, have received, is to pass on our testimony to the next generation that their testimony may be strengthened, and they in turn may pass it on to their children that God's work may continue, and his plans be fulfilled. Let us always remember the quotation: "For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?"—Matt. 16:26. FORTITUDE The greatest heroine is she Who, through life's dull monotony, Can with a brave and resolute grace And cheerful mien, the future face. —Helen Kimball Orgill. Notes from the Field. By Amy B. Lyman Australian Mission. President Milton B. Jensen of the Melbourne, Australia, conference, reports the organization of a Relief Society in Melbourne, with Miss Edith Wilsea as president. While the work is new to Miss Wilsea, she having been brought up in Australia, she is filled with interest and a desire to carry the work forward along the well established lines. The plans for the present, of this society, are to meet one Saturday afternoon in each month, devoting the time to study and work. The first hour will be spent in study, and the remainder of the time will be taken up in sewing articles for the benefit of either the poor or the treasury. The L. D. S. Families in Melbourne are scattered and many of them work away from home, so that it is felt that a meeting held once a month is all that can be successfully carried on. During the month, it is the plan of President Jensen to have the Relief Society members visit each home in the conference, carrying comfort and good cheer to all Church members. President Jensen says that the labors of the Relief Society along with those of the other organizations of the Church will be made more effective by the completion of a church, which they are beginning to erect. The building, though not elaborate, will cost in the neighborhood of three thousand pounds, and a great deal of the labor will be given voluntarily by the elders and members of the Church. India. President Clarissa S. Williams recently received a letter from Mr. Mrittunjoy. M. C. Boiragi, of Bengal, India, who describes himself as a small pensioner and a retired librarian, working and preaching at a railway station, also a devoted reader of the Millennial Star. Mr. Boiragi says the Star has been supplied to him since 1912, and he has been delighted as well as enlightened with the contents of this periodical. He has read about, and become greatly interested in the Relief Society of the "Mormon" Church, which he says is a world famed organization, and which he would like to see established in India. He writes: "India is our heavenly Father's chosen land, as far as ancient wisdom and eastern lore are concerned, but we need practical religion and the love of God as revealed through Jesus. This is the only hope of India's future. Old India is giving place to howls and 596 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cries; madam, will your societies pray for us and do something to freshen our land? May I move very urgently in this matter, in the name of Jesus the King, that you, madam, his servant, may take Relief Society work into India with some earnestness and see that organizations of the work are formed in our midst?" Immediately upon receipt of this letter, Mr. Boiragi's name was placed upon the Magazine mailing list. D Cassia Stake. On Pioneer Day the Cassia stake Relief Society presented the pageant "Come, come, ye Saints," formerly presented by the Wasatch stake. The story proved to be educational and entertaining. The first episode carried one back to the time Brigham Young delivered that wonderful revelation to the Saints prior to their long, long journey across the plains. The second episode conveyed a picture of the pioneers around the campfire. William Clayton is observed writing (as by inspiration), while back of the curtain a quartette sang "Come, come, ye Saints." The | last episode "making the desert blossom as the rose" was beautiful beyond description. This was followed by the flower dance by eight young ladies each dressed to represent a flower. The pioneer quadrille in costume was greatly enjoyed. All in all, the pageant was a great success. Mrs. Maud M. Clark of the M. I. A. Stake Board gave valuable assistance to the Relief Society and the splendid success of the entertainment was in a measure due to her untiring efforts. Cache Stake. With the approval of the Stake Presidency and the bishops of the different wards, the Presidency and the Board of the Cache stake Relief societies arranged to conduct meetings or ward conferences in all the wards of the stake on a recent Sunday evening, these meetings taking the place of the regular Sacrament meetings. The conferences were generally well attended, were interesting and instructive and were given to show the people what the societies are doing, and to bid for the attendance of the young mothers. At each meeting the ward president conducted the exercises and at least one member of the stake board was present. The program in each ward was about as follows: Singing, "Up, awake, ye defenders of Zion;" prayer; singing, "Our mountain home so dear;" administration of the Sacrament, accompanied by sacred music, "Oh my Father;” "What Does Relief Society Mean," by Board Member; musical selection; theology review, ward class leader; music; literary review, ward class leader; literary reading, ward member; social service review, ward class leader; singing; benediction. . NOTES FROM THE FIELD 595 Utah Stake. Just at the close of the summer, the Utah Stake Board entertained the stake priesthood and their wives, the bishops and their wives, and the ward Relief Society officers and their partners at Spring Dell, Provo Canyon. The members of the General Board were invited as special guests, and a half a dozen of their number, including President Clarissa S. Williams, accepted the invitation. The following invitation, neatly typewritten, was issued by the stake board: Let worry and work be forgotten For a piece of a day; Let gladness and rest be thought of each guest, Come and join us in play. There's a Dell to be filled with our singing, There are mountains to echo its ringing, There's a river this glad welcome flinging, Oh come, come away, away! A Canyon Party To which you and your partner are invited. The time: August 25, at two o'clock. The place: Spring: Dell in the canyon. The need: Bring a cup apiece. The way: Your bishop will tell you how to get there. The request: Is from the Relief Society Stake Board, who most cordially invite you to come. Under the trees at Spring Dell games and plays were indulged in, with Mrs. Anie D. Palmer as play leader. An interesting feature of the afternoon was a hat trimming contest between the bishops of the stake, all of whom were in attendance. Boxes filled with hats and trimmings were produced and some twenty bishops set about to select shapes and trimmings from which to produce ready-to-wear hats. After a certain given time the wives of the bishops were asked to come forward and demonstrate the hats in a fashion review. Delicious refreshments were served at the close of the afternoon, and after short addresses by President Thomas N. Taylor, of Utah stake, and President Williams of the General Board, the party dispersed, pronouncing the outing one of the most enjoyable of the summer. Taylor Stake. Mrs. Georgina O'Brien, president of the Taylor stake, with her counselors and board members have just finished holding ward Relief Society conferences in all of the wards in the stake. 598 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE One subject which was emphasized was the work of the teachers, special instructions being given at each conference by a member of the stake board. The following subjects have been outlined in detail by the stake board for the Fall and Winter: Obedience; Forgiveness; Importance of our Church Literature; Marriage; Motherhood; Prayer; Salvation for the Dead. South Sevier Stake. The following communication passed at the South Sevier stake Relief Society conference, and approved by the entire quarterly conference, will be interesting to women generally: To the Honorable Board of Education, Sevier county, Utah. Gentlemen.—We, the members of the South Sevier stake Relief Society, in convention assembled, in Monroe, this 21st day of August, 1921, do hereby present to your honorable body the following: Realizing the need of national improvement in economic and moral conditions, we feel that much can be done through the medium of our high schools, We think that the prevailing extreme styles of attire for both our boys and girls are not conducive to the bettering of the above mentioned conditions. We, therefore, desire that the following regulations be established in the high schools of Sevier county, viz.: That we bar the wearing at school of extremely thin and low cut dresses, short skirts, high-heeled shoes, silk hose, or silk sox, silk shirts, use of cosmetics, unseemly hair dress, and in fact all fashions that tend to extravagance, immorality, and to the diverting of the attention of the students from their studies. We pledge that if you, in your deliberations, see fit to set forth such regulations that we, as parents, will tender to you our hearty support and assistance. Passed upon at Monroe, August 21, 1921. Signed: Matilda B. Ross, President. Laura Morrey, First Counselor. Matilda D. Parker, Second Counselor. Bear Lake Stake Among the splendid and appropriate topics outlined for Bear Lake stake visiting teachers is that for November. Subject: Gratitude and Thanksgiving. "Gratitude is a natural manifestation of love." Read the 100th Psalm. Why did Pilgrims come to America? Why did Pioneers come to Utah? Have we benefitted by the sacrifices of these brave people? Read the song, "Count your many blessings." World Happenings James H. Anderson The Chinese rebellion continued in August, with frequent clashes between the contending forces. Enrico Caruso, the world's greatest tenor singer, died at Naples, Italy, August 2. Cholera is reported to have claimed 130,000 victims in Russia during the three months ending July 31. Ten earthquakes with resulting fatalities was the record in August, but none of them were extensive. France and the Vatican at Rome resumed diplomatic relations on August 1, after years of estrangement. Idaho has bounteous crops of potatoes and wheat in 1921. Northern Utah is in a similar situation. Jews left Russia in large numbers in August, going into Germany. Many of them wish to reach America. Hungary and Austria had a clash at arms over territory, in August, and only the poverty of both prevents open warfare. Guatemala had a considerable insurrection, in August, and the government is having much trouble in restoring order. Americans in Russia were released, in August, on condition that the Americans help feed the starving Russians. The United States' treaty of peace with Germany was signed, on August 25, and that with Hungary on August 29. Women in Great Britain outnumber the men by over 2,000,000—a fact which has raised a serious social question there. Jugo-Slavs and Albanians engaged in fierce battles in August, some 30 Albanian villages being destroyed. 600 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In British India, in August, the native uprising cost the lives of more than 100 British soldiers and over 2,000 natives. Two hundred American families from western United States established themselves at the headquarters of the Amazon river, northern Peru, during the first seven months of 1921. Mathias Erzberger, former German chancellor, was assassinated in Germany, on August 26, causing much disturbance and nearly the overthrow of the German government. The Los Angeles Limited, a fast transcontinental train, was entered by bandits on August 31, between Salt Lake City and Ogden, Utah, and the passengers robbed. Greek troops won two significant victories over the Turkish nationalist armies in August, and gained virtual control of the territory east of Constantinople, as they previously possessed it west of the Bosphorus. In Russia, according to reliable reports, 20,000,000 people were on the verge of starvation in August, and the United States, Great Britain, and other countries, joined in giving partial relief. Knights of Columbus delegates to the number of approximately 20,000 met in international convention in San Francisco on August 2—this indicating the vastness of that organization. The Polish government made extensive preparations in August for the invasion of Silesia, in the event that the league of nations commission does not decide the boundary dispute favorable to Poland. Roumania has massed troops on the Russian border, and the Soviet government of Russia massed large bodies of troops in August, claiming the purpose was to repel a Roumanian invasion. "Mormons" are now sending missionaries to Mexico, and on August 27 Professor Booth of Provo, was released from school _ duties to go on a mission to Asia Minor, including Palestine, which now has religious freedom. Mrs. William Adams of Bogalusa, Louisiana, has twin midgets, Billie, who weighed 11 ounces at birth, and Jack, who weighed 17 ounces. Both seem healthy. Six other children are of normal weight and size. WORLD HAPPENINGS 599 An Anglo-American treaty was suggested by leading American and British statesmen in August, as the only hope for a reasonable amount of world peace in the future. Viscount Bryce, famous English statesman, in an address at Williams College, Massachusetts, in August, declared that the Versailles league of nations treaty "sows seeds of future warfare, and receives in Europe nothing but censure." Storms, consisting of cloudbursts, electrical storms, etc., in August, visited Price and Cedar City, Utah, Phoenix, Arizona, Hatch, New Mexico, the Arkansas valley, Colorado, and other places in the western part of the United States, destroying much property. Spain has serious trouble in Morocco with its African subjects. The Spaniards were defeated in several battles in August, and the natives are endeavoring to set up a Moroccan empire in Northern Africa. Other nations having African possessions are keenly interested in these events. James M. Beck, solicitor-general of the United States, in an address before the American Bar Association, on August 31, declared that at the present time there is a general world revolt. Against purity of standards in personal, industrial, and political life. "As in the days of Noah." Senator Smoot of Utah is urging a simplified revenue law for the United States government, reducing the great number of government employees. The New York World says the Senator is one of very few legislators who dare to speak out for real national economy. President Harding uttered a significant truth at the opening of the fall term of the War College, at Washington, D. C., on September 1, when he said, "the trouble with the world today is that there are too many theorists who know nothing about actualities, yet who are endeavoring to regulate world affairs." The conference on the limitation of armaments in Washington, in November, is not expected to be productive of permanent peace, so President Harding stated in an address on September 1. He says a world permanent peace seems far off, but that the costly burden of big armaments may be materially reduced. 602 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Civil War raged in West Virginia, U. S. A., the last week in August and the first week in September, the United Mine Workers' union, which is out on strike, furnishing some thousands of armed men who opened hostilities. The President of the United States issued a proclamation calling on the invading miners to disperse, but they refused, and Federal troops had to be brought into action. The casualties were heavy before the President interfered to protect the people. The ZR-2, largest dirigible airship ever built, and constructed in England by contract under President Wilson, started on August 23, on a trial trip preparatory to being turned over to the United States government. On August 24 it parted in the middle, at an altitude of about 3,500 feet, crashing into the Humber river, at Hull, England; 27 English and 16 American officers and men were hurled to their death. The seventh annual intermountain convention of Christian Workers, as they term themselves, and consisting of representatives of several religious denominations, met in Salt Lake City, Utah, the week of August 29. The "Mormons" were denounced by some and defended by others. The sum of the discussion was that the Latter-day Saints must give up the idea that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God—a fact so attested by events of the last decade that any student of modern history and the predictions by Joseph Smith can have no doubt of his divine prophetic inspiration. Ireland was offered a dominion status—really more independence than any state in the American Union—on August 13. Monsignor Edward Mulhern brought to DeValera, president of the Irish republican organization, a secret message, said to have been from Cardinal Logue, head of the Roman Catholic church in Ireland, on August 23. The Irish representatives rejected Great Britain's offer on August 26. The British premier, on August 29, declared that Great Britain would yield no more. On August 31, fighting again broke out in Belfast, Ireland, between the factions, 18 people being killed. This is the chronological record of the Irish trouble to the end of August, with a stormy outlook in the future. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Cherity Never Faitleth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS: - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - -. First Counselor MRS. LOUISA YATES ROBISON:. - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN. - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Susa Young Gates Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Empey, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: - - Susa Young Gates Business Manager - - -. -: Jeanette A. Hype Assistant Manager - -: - - - _Amy Brown Lyman - Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. Utah Vol. VIII OCTOBER, 1921 No. 10 MOTIVES OR BASIS OF JUDGMENT It is not what we do or what we leave undone that saves or damns us, it is the motive which lies deep in our hidden souls and which prompts the act and the word, the silence and inaction. Old Yankees and Puritans knew this well as did and do all true Saints. But we let the days pass full of our acts and words most of them prompted by habit, by custom and by environment. Here and there a need arises to say or do something different—and we are caught quickly. Then comes out of hiding a motive which prompts us to say or do something which we have decided was foolish long ago or we refrain from some good act, actuated by an obscure motive which we do not trouble to examine. When children or men do things which you are inclined to criticize, try to discover the motive behind the act or word. Study the child, the friend or the public man, and discover, if you can, the source of the act. The results of the act may be bad, but if the motive was pure and good, who are you to rise up in judgment? Alas, we judge life, one another, and ourselves, by results, not by the motives. This would be right and just if we had clear, unselfish, perfect vision. Because results follow causes. Yet human agency, or human will pitted against each other, often cloud and change results: while pure motives may even justify 604 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE law-breaking, and may ameliorate sin. Motives qualify triumph and even will canker goodness and right actions. You can go to meeting and commit sin all the time you sit there, or you may stay away from meeting and be perfectly justified in doing so. God judges our motives, not always the results of our actions. We are in a hurry—anxious to get the children off to Sunday School, and in that hurry we may burn the roast, step on the cat's tail, pull the children's hair, or even set fire to the house. The results will be disastrous, and we must suffer the consequence of our extreme hurry. But no man nor angel will attribute evil to us because of the evil which came out of our good motives. On the other hand we may be determined to go to the temple for the day, or to Sunday School, or meeting, and discover that the baby is sick, or that the husband objects to our leaving home. "Obedience is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams.” The day comes and goes so swiftly that we have little time to study the motives for our many acts and words. Then choose the quiet twilight, the few wakeful moments on the pillow of the night, and study out the motives for our desires and ambitions. Do we break this law or that to please ourselves? Do we want riches and honor of men? Why? Do we resent the treatment accorded us here and there? Why? Do we plan excursions or parties, or dress-making, or preserving, and why? What is my motive? That is my problem; the results are with Providence. The answer to my problem spells blessing or condemnation to me. My Resolve Mrs. A. C. Vail How sad is this life in its many rough channels; How much of sorrow and pain; How often we think, when old age creeps upon us, "Could I but live over again," How different I'd be and how tender and loving, How prayerful I'd be every day, That when I grew old and was no longer useful My Savior would call me away. But now, as I ponder upon my past life, And think back on my many misdeeds, I feel I am unworthy to enter His Kingdom, Or walk in the Paradise meads; I feel that to die would but cause much confusion, And I'd best live along for a while That I may do better; when I go to heaven, I may be received with a smile. Guide Lessons for December LESSON 1 Theology and Testimony ( First Week in December ) Life after Death The gospel of Jesus Christ is full of hope for all who leave this sphere of existence and, with one exception, go into other spheres. The revelations of the Prophet Joseph Smith supplement and classify the revelations in the Bible concerning life after death, in a marvelous manner. The Christian world have only a vague conception of the other world, gleaned from the sayings of the Savior and his disciples, and the symbolic pictures of John the Revelator, on the Isle of Patmos. To begin with, the Christian world does not believe in pre-existence as we do. They believe that we did not have a conscious existence before we came here. To them vast reservoirs of spirit material exist somewhere, but is unorganized, undeveloped. Our elders preach pre-existence as a fundamental truth. Pre-existence is clearly shown in the Bible, if we only have the key of revelation. Moses spoke of "The God of the spirits of all flesh," in Numbers 16:22; 27:16. The Lord asked Job, "Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth?" 38:3-7. The Lord tells Jeremiah, 1:5. "Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee." The Savior says (John 16:27) that "T came out from God." Again (16:28, 30) he says, I came forth from the Father.' Paul argues, (Hebrews 12:9) "Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits and live?" The Preacher tells us (Eccles. 12:7) that "the spirit shall return unto God who gave it." But the Christian world spiritualizes these sayings. They do not believe in the personality of God himself, and refer to Christ as God made incarnate. It is true that the revelations of the Prophet Joseph Smith have percolated all through the Christian faiths, and they have been greatly changed and modified from their original statements and beliefs. The Conference of Christian Workers, recently held in Salt Lake City, quotes Dr. H. H. Powell, of San Francisco, as saying: "The mind of man, within the last century, has made the sharpest turn in the history of civilization, which many orthodox 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE church people fail to recognize." He said further, "If one accepts the actual physical resurrection of the body there can be no vital objection to any of the absurdities of 'Mormon' theology concerning life after leaving this earth." Sir Oliver Lodge, England's great scientist, has become converted to spiritualism, and has published a book containing many articles purporting to be communications received by him through a medium from his son who was killed during the great war. Many other men and women have become spiritualists, in one form or another. They are tired of the vague heavens of the Christian world, they want something definite and clear. But Latter-day Saints do not need to drink from the muddy water of spiritualistic communications, in order to learn of the conditions and status of spirits on the other side of the veil. It is always unwise to dabble with spiritualistic doctrines and practices. We are told by Paul that things earthly are a type of things heavenly. We know that there is organization over there, and a Church of Christ to which Saints belong, there as they did and do here. There are many spirits outside the Church there as there are people here, outside of this Church. Our social and religious association, however, should be and will be confined to those who belong to the Church over there, as it is, practically, here. We may and shall try to teach all men and women the truth, but we should remember one thing: the Priesthood rules there as it does here, and only under the authority and protection of the Priesthood will we be saved and happy there and here. The Prophet describes these conditions in the "Gems" found in the Compendium. Read the statements there under the following headings: The Punishment of the Devil—May 21, 1843. The World of Spirits. Spirits of the Just—October 9, 1843. A Visitor— January 21, 1836. Translation—October 5, 1840. The Millennium—December 30, 1842. Salvation—May 17, 1843. All Revelations are Spiritual. The Contention in Heaven. A Key. Observation on the Sectarian God. Teachings of President Brigham Young: "Spirits are just as familiar with spirits as bodies are with bodies, though spirits are composed of matter so refined as not to be tangible to this coarser organization. They walk, converse, and have their meetings; and the spirits of good men like Joseph and the elders who have left this Church on earth for a season to operate in another sphere are rallying all their powers, and going from place to place preaching the gospel, and Joseph is directing them, saying, 'Go ahead, my brethren, and if they hedge up your way, walk up and command them to disperse. You have the Priesthood, and can disperse them, but if any of them wish to hear the gospel, preach it to them.' Can they baptize them? No. What can they do? They can preach the gospel, and when we have the GUIDE LESSONS 607 privilege of building up Zion, the time will come for saviors to come up on Mount Zion. Some to those who are not in mortality will come along and say, 'Here are a thousand names I wish you to attend to in this temple, and when you have got through with them I will give you another thousand.' And the elders of Israel and their wives will go forth to officiate for their forefathers, the men for the men, and ee = for the women."—From the Contributor, Vol. X, page "What will be the occupation of Mary Freeze in the world to come? What will she do there? We are told that she will not be idle. She could not be idle. In God's plans there is no such thing as idleness. God is not pleased with the thought of idleness. He is not idle, and there is no such thing as inertia in the providences and in the purposes of God. We are either growing and advancing, or are retrograding. We are not stationary. We must grow. * * * The principles of everlasting growth and development tend to glory, to exaltation, to happiness, and to a fulness of joy. What has she been doing? She has been working in the temple, among other things. She has been working, also, as a minister of life among the young women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. * * * She has been laboring to bring others of the daughters of Zion to the same standard of knowledge, faith and understanding of the gospel of Christ that she herself possessed. * * * What can you conceive of greater than this? To my mind there isn't anything so great and so glorious in this world as to labor for the salvation of the living and the redemption of the dead. We read of the Savior going to the spirits in prison and preaching the gospel to them when his body lay in the tomb. That was a part of the great mission he had to perform. He was sent not only to preach the gospel to those dwelling in mortality, but he was fore-ordained and anointed of God to open the doors of the prison house to those in bondage and to proclaim the gospel to them. "I have always believed and still do believe with all my soul that such men as Peter and James, and the twelve disciples chosen by the Savior in his time, have been engaged all the centuries that have passed since their martyrdom for the testimony of Jesus Christ, in proclaiming liberty to the captives in the spirit world and in opening their prison doors, * * * "Who is going to preach the gospel to the women? Who is going to carry the testimony of Jesus Christ to the hearts of the women who have passed away without a knowledge of the gospel? Well, to my mind, it is a simple thing. These good sisters that have been set apart, ordained to the work called to it, authorized by the authority of the holy Priesthood to minister for their sex, in the House of God for the living and for the dead, will be fully authorized and empowered to preach the gospel and administer to the women while the elders and prophets are preaching to the men. The things we experience here are typical of the things of God and the life beyond us. There is a great similarity between God's purposes as manifested here and his purposes as carried out in his presence and kingdom. Those who are authorized to preach the gospel here and are appointed here to do that work will not be idle after they have passed away, but will continue to exercise the rights that they obtained here under the Priesthood of the Son of God to minister for the salvation of those who have died without a knowledge of the truth." President Joseph F. Smith—Gospel Doctrine, pp. 577-582. 608 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE When our dear ones question us, or are in mourning let us comfort them with these extracts from modern revelation, for the Latter-day Saints are the only people teaching the truth, concerning the other side. Let us study truth. QUESTIONS Explain the doctrine of pre-existence? What does the Christian world believe about heaven? What do you think about heaven? Why? Why is Church organization needed over there? What will be your occupation in heaven? Why is spiritualism an unsafe doctrine? What does the Prophet say about the world of spirits?. If possible read the "Teachings of Brigham Young," found in the April, 1920, Utah Genealogical Magazine. 9. Quote from President Smith's vision in regard to the departed. (See Relief Society Magazine, Dec., 1919; Improvement Era, December, 1918.) DON DUR WN LESSON II Work and Business. (Second Week in December.) LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in December. ) Emily Hill Woodmansee. It is reported that when President Joseph F. Smith was asked to name his favorite hymn, he said, "I am not certain that Emily Hill Woodmansee's hymn, 'Uphold the right' is not my favorite.' Later we learned from members of President Smith's family that "I know that my redeemer lives" was his favorite hymn. While we do not doubt this latter statement in the least, we feel equally certain that "Uphold the right" was one of his favorite hymns. » > Emily Hill Woodmansee was naturally spiritual minded; she was one of those persons who from her very childhood hungered and thirsted after righteousness. In very tender years she pondered much in her childish way over the eternal destiny of the human family. GUIDE LESSONS 609 She was twelve years of age when the gospel message first came to her. It was brought by her cousin Miriam Slade, whom she later accompanied to a Latter-day Saint meeting with great Eagerness. At the meeting she heard the things she greatly longed to hear, and to use her own words was converted in the Same manner as those on "the day of pentecost." The joy of that day never left her, it lives in practically all her hymns, No after factor appears to have loomed up to her with the same significance as the fact that the gospel had been restored. She writes, "Never shall [ forget that day, surely it was the turning point of my whole life." Thrilled as she was by all she had heard, she failed to impress her parents with the necessity for her immediate baptism, consequently, while she attended meetings, and made constant contributions to the Church, she did not enter the waters of baptism until she was sixteen years of age, The Latter-day Saints hymn book contains six hymns from the pen of Emily Hill Woodmansee. Before she left her native country one of the elders blessed her, and in the blessing promised her that she should write both Prose and poetry. The existence of these hymns in the hymn book is evidence that his promise was fulfilled; yet her hymns are only a few poems, selected from a rather large group of poems that bear her name. "Come, Saints," and "Oh, blest was the day," embody in their thought content the message of the restored gospel, impregnated with the fullest measure of joy and gratitude. The "Day of redemption" calls to mind the persecution of the Saints after entering these valleys. Like, "O ye mountains high," it will preserve the emotions of that period of storm and stress through which the Saints went after coming to the west. "Resting now," is a favored funeral] hymn, written at the departure of some sister, a friend of the author, whose identity we have not been able to find. Emily Hill Woodmansee's name should be revered by all Latter-day Saint women, for she has written a hymn setting forth the work and spirit of the first great woman's organization of the Church, the Woman's National Relief Society. It is doubtful if. Any other organization in the Church has been so singled out for such special honor by the compilers of the Latter-day Saints hymn book. It is a great compliment to the organization, also to the author of the hymn: Inspired from above the Father of love: Formed the daughters of Zion's great organization, Its purpose indeed is to comfort and feed 610 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The honest and poor in distress and in need, Oh! The daughters in Zion, the friends of the poor, Should be patterns of faith, hope and charity pure. Mrs. Woodmansee's two best known hymns are "Uphold the right," and "When dark and drear."' "Uphold the right," is justly popular, due largely to the spirit of steadfastness and courage breathed in every line. There is little unity of thought in the hymn, so that a study of it from the thought content side will not yield very great satisfaction. Its chief merit is on its emotional content. When one gets through reading or singing the hymn one may not have added much to one's thought accumulation, but one can hardly escape imbiding a spirit of determination to stand for the right, and do the right, regardless of foes from within or without. The ability to write terse epigramatic lines expressing the thought in such concentrated language as to create memory gems is a talent sought after and coveted by most writers. Such talent Mrs. Woodmansee possessed, as witnessed in the following quotations from "Uphold the right," "No coward can be called a man— No friend. Will friends betray. Note how they toil whose aim is spoil, Who plundering plots devise. Can honor mate with treacherous hate? Can figs on thistles grow? Left handed fraud let those applaud Who would by fraud prevail. "When dark and drear," is perhaps, from most points of view, the best hymn from the pen of Mirs. Woodmansee. No doubt the music set to it by the well known composer, Jos. J. Daynes, has much to do with the favor in which it is held by many people; nevertheless, it has much merit apart from the music. It is not superior in its emotional content to "Uphold the right," but it preserves the unity of the theme throughout: When dark and drear the skies appear, And doubt and dread would thee enthrall, Look up, nor fear, the day is near, And Providence is over all. GUIDE LESSONS 611 From heaven above, his light and love God giveth freely when we call, Our utmost need is oft decreed, And Providence is over 'all, With jealous zeal God guards our weal, And lifts our wayward thoughts above; When storms assail life's bark so frail, We seek the haven of his love. And when our eyes transcend the skies, His gracious purpose is complete, No more the night destracts our sight— The clouds are all beneath our feet. The direst woe that mortals know Can ne'er the honest heart appal Who holds this trust—that God is just, And Providence is over all. Should foes increase to mar our peace, Frustrated all their plans shall fall, Our utmost need is oft decreed, And Providence is over all. Faith in God, and abiding confidence that no matter what the odds, God will bring us safely through, is the dominant note of this hymn. We hear much today of optimism. Helen Keller has written a book on optimism. Surely it is due Emily Hill Woodmansee that we take into account the splendid optimism of her hymns, noticeable in such hymns as "Uphold the right," "The day of redemption," "When dark and drear the skies appear." Particularly is this fact noteworthy when we call to mind, to use the words of a sister poet, "the deepning trials that thronged her way." QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS, 1. Give a brief sketch of the life of Emily Hill Woodmansee. 2. Select some lines from "Come, Saints," that indicate that Mrs. Woodmansee was rejoicing over the fact that the gospel had been restored. 3. Do you know anything about her life showing that she very much appreciated the restoration of the gospel? 612 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 4.What is the name of the hymn written to the National Woman's Relief Society? (a) By whom was this organization effected, and what was the time of organization? 5. Read the chorus of this hymn very carefully and select the ideas embodied in the chorus that are in harmony with the purpose of the National Woman's Relief Society. 6. Read this hymn in its entirety to the association. 7. Read carefully "Uphold the right," and select from the hymn the material, whether pertaining to the thought content, or the style content, that you value personally. 8. What experience have you had in your life that would lead you to believe with Mrs. Woodmansee that "Providence is over all'? 9. In the light of the many trials through which Mrs. Woodmansee passed, how do you account for her splendid optimism? 10. Select some gems from Mrs. Woodmansee's hymns that you would be glad to retain as memory gems. LESSON IV Social Service. (Fourth Week in December.) JUVENILE DELINQUENCY II. The importance of proper home, school, church and community conditions in preventing delinquency was emphasized in our last lesson. It often happens, however, that under normal environmental conditions children develop delinquent tendencies. The cause of the unsocial conduct in such cases can usually be traced to some disorder in the physical or mental condition of the child. A child cannot and will not respond in a normal way in his home, school, church or community life unless his physical and mental condition is near the normal. PHYSICAL DISORDERS AS FACTORS IN CAUSING DELINQUENCY. It was at one time thought that the delinquent or criminal had physical peculiarities which distinguished them as a type from the normal. It is now generally conceded, however, that there is no criminal type, although it is true that peculiarities or stigmata of the ears, head, palate, face, teeth or hands are often found in criminals. The delinquency of childhood, however, is very much more often caused by remediable physical troubles. GUIDE LESSONS © 605 Some of the more common physical defects which cause delinquency are undernourishment, defects of the eyes, ears, nose or speech, dull physical pains, phimosis, or the need of circumcision, ulcerated teeth, or diseased tonsils. Any irritation or poison in the system tends like the poison from tobacco or liquor to break down the will power and stimulate anti social cravings. Dr. Healey found abnormal physical conditions present as a factor in causing delinquency in 273 out of 823 cases examined, Every child should be carefully examined once a year at least by a competent physician. An Automobile needs going over in the Garage once a year. Certainly the delicate mechanism of the body of a developing child is entitled to as much attention. MENTAL DEFECTS AS FACTORS IN CAUSING DELINQUENCY. Since all conduct is a direct expression of mental life it follows that the conduct cannot be normal unless the mental life is normal. Morality depends first, on the ability to foresee and weigh the possible consequences to oneself and others of behavior, and secondly, on the willingness and capacity to exercise self restraint. There is an unfortunate and constantly increasing class of individuals in every community who are inherently weak in both these requirements for moral living. The feeble-minded, as they are commonly called, are to be pitied not blamed for their delinquencies. Owing to defect existing from birth they are unable to handle their affairs with ordinary prudence and cannot compete in the affairs of life on equal terms with their fellows. In mental development they correspond to the child of twelve years or younger. They form a large percentage of the class which fill our divorce courts, reformatories and jails. It is variously estimated that from 2 to 5% of the general population are feeble-minded. Of delinquents it is perhaps safe to say that at least 30% are of this class. Statistics show that 50% of the prison population of the United States is feeble-minded. Dr. Healey found mental abnormalities present in 590 out of 823 cases of delinquency examined, or 71% of the total. The feeble-minded increase rapidly, and their condition is hereditary. They are capable of self-support if conditions are made favorable for them and are often expert in mechanical lines. They can be made industrious and happy if the condition is recognized and provided for. If they are left to competition in a social environment created by normals for normals they are almost certain to develop delinquent tendencies. The delinquent feeble-minded should be segregated in colonies for the protection of the state and to prevent their reproduction. [ Feeble-mindedness is a defect of the intellect or frontal part 614 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the brain. There are other mental defects of the basal part of the brain which has to do with the emotions. These defects give rise to hysteria, melancholy, dementia praecox or weakness of the will power, and other aberrational troubles. Such abnormalities as well as some forms of epilepsy and insanity are frequent causes of delinquency. They are hospital cases, however, and require the attention of specialists. There is, however, at least one type of mental trouble often causing delinquency, which can be guarded against in the development of the child. It sometimes happens that a conflict arises between two elements in the mental life of the child in association with a powerful emotional disturbance or experience. For example, the child whose instruction in sex matters has been neglected may have an experience which first arouses a strong sex feeling and desire. Owing to the social conventions which the child-knows and feels, it represses or attempts to inhibit the desire aroused. A mental struggle results which may be repeated every time the child's thoughts return to the experience which gave rise to the desire. The child finally secures relief by giving way to conduct, perhaps stealing, perhaps lying, at any rate conduct which the child considers less bad than the conduct toward which it is stimulated by the emotional disturbance. These mental conflicts unless discovered often last many years and cause delinquencies apparently in no way associated with them and often quite inexplicable to parents, The trouble can usually be stopped if the conflict involved can be discovered and explained to the child. QUESTIONS = How may physical trouble influence conduct? What is the value of health inspections by school nurses? Do you keep a weight chart of your growing children? How may the failure to use a tooth brush cause stealing? What is feeble-mindedness?. How far would you expect the feeble-minded child to-go in school without trouble. An WN SERVICE PRESS Better Printers of Better Printing Phone Was. 4044. 228 West Broadway, Salt Lake City Are You a Subscriber to the Relief Society Magazine? If not you are missing an opportunity to keep in touch with Relief Society work; and also the opportunity to help solve your Relief Society and home problems. Send your subscription to Relief Society Magazine 29 Bishop's Building. Salt Lake City, Utah Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market WILL LAST A LIFE TIME—36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.; | SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT.; Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays - and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City Going to Entertain at Dinner? - Let us enter your order and deliver it in a manner that will cause you to also give us your future orders—daily. "DICKINSON'S" The Quality Service Store. CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES. We are in step with the declining Market. W. R. McDONALD, Pres.; D, H. CANNON, Mgr. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Western Scout SHOES A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language—a language understood by everybody. Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"—the kind they make at Phone Was. 2861:. 6 Main St., Salt Lake Lumiere Studio 680 East 2nd South Street. Hyland 60. Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month for the Past Ten Months One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have you seen it? Dependable The Deseret News Progressive National Bank The officers u1e always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them. Officers Heser J. Grant, President. Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President. Chas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Alvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier. John W. James, Asst. Cashier. The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following BOUND VOLUMES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of which they will be glad to dispose at the prices quoted below: 12 Vols. Of 1915, Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1918, Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols of 1919, Cloth Bound 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919, Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920, Cloth Bound 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920, Leather B'd 3.00 lic Extra for Postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Bound volumes 'of the Magazine make appropriate gifts Keeley’s Ice Ceram For the “Good old Summer time” DELIVERED EVERYWHERE P.O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Phone Was. 3223 DELIVERED EVERYWHERE P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Training for Women Unexcelled opportunities for training young women in the professions of Home Economics, Music, Education, Business, Journalism, Commercial Art as well as in scores of general cultural courses are offered by the University of Utah Autumn Begins September 22 Rarely before mountain, educational institute and the faculty enlarged and activities have been so strengthened. ~~ Competent authorities unanimously claim that in the great business revival which is just now commencing women will function more prominently than ever before. Now is the time, therefore, for young women to consider the advantages of adequate training for these pending responsibilities, Plan to enroll September 22. Write now for catalogue and other announcement literature. Note: The recent state legislature authorized courses in Home Eco. Nomics at the University of Utah. An extensive list of subjects in this department is offered the student. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy. VOLUME VIII NOVEMBER, 1921 NUMBER 11 L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS The Sign of Quality The Sign of Comfort Temple Brand Garments If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to as. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. Style Price 1 Special Summer weight $1.25 24 Unbranded special, light wt. 1.25 15 Bleached spring needle gauze 1.75 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached... 2.25 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached. 2.00 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached 2.50 . 90 Cotton, heavy wt. Unbleached 2.50 50 Lisle, gauze wt., bleached... 2.65 107 Merino wool, medium wt..... 3.75 109 Merino wool, heavy weight... 4.25 65 Mercerized, It. Wt., bleached 3.75  305 Australian wool, It. Wt........ 6.00 1922 Pure Glove Silk..................12.00 We make BATHING SUITS. Ask for what you want—we will fit you. Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 Main St  Salt Lake City BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices Call at our Burial Clothes Department 22 Bishop's Building Prompt attention given all out of town orders TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop. $100.00 For this Beauty Take 15 Months to Pay For this Beauty Take 15 Months to Pay Daynes Beebe Music Co 61-3-5 Main St "OLDER THAN THE STATE OP UTA” Have you a ring of pin with the Birthstone for October? If not, write or call on W. M. McCONAHAY The Reliable Jeweler 64 So. Main St. Phone W. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah | Latter-Day Saints Garments APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. 104 Light Summer Weight (Bleached).........$1.25 111 Light weight, cotton................ 1.50 120 Light weight, bleached.......... 1.65 160 Medium weight, cotton........ 1.75 122 Medium weight, bleached... 190 Heavy weight, cotton............ 2.50 124 Heavy weight, bleach 150 Extra white Mercs 116 Heavy wool, mixed 4.00 2.00 118 Extra heavy wool.................. 5.00 MODEL KNITTING WORKS No. 657 Iverson St. Salt Lake City, Utah What Do Your Children Read? Guiding children in their reading is a big, vital problem. There are Say 80 wholesome, —  that you cannot afford to et: them read anything trashy or cheap. Co-operate bee our Juvenile department. LET us suggest books That are high class, Books that meet personal tastes, adapted to various ages. Write for lists. Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street. Say “Merry Christmas” Electrically An electrical gift brings Christmas cheer every day for years. It’s useful and beautiful. What could be more appropriate. Come in now and select at leisure from our large stock. Buy early. Utah power and Light Company. “Efficient Public Service” WOULDN'T THAT MAKE A BEAUTIFUL PAINTING? How often have you said that of some snap shot you have taken I make a specialty of oil painting on canvas from snap shots, etc Send no money — I will paint and send picture C. C D. with privilege of examination. If you don’t like it send it back. Any size up to 18x20 inches $25.00. Portraits 8x10 inches $35.00 for large pictures write. Be sure and write all descriptions as to colors, size you want, etc. ED. CLISBEE, 217 Palouse St. Wenatchee, Washington. No. 657 Iverson St. Salt Lake City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS NOVEMBER, 1921 President Heber J. Grant Overlooking Dixie...... Frontispiece My Dixie Home................. President A. W. Ivins 615 A Memorable Journey to the Scenic Glories of Southern Utah................. Susa Young Gates 617 Origin, Object and Destiny of Women.............2000- 633 Yarrow................. Raveing Lundgren 635 The Missionary's Recompense........ Edith Anna Johnson 637 Don't Let the Baby Forget Me.... L. Lula Greene Richards 639 Out of the World................05. G. Milton Babcock 640 Notes from the Field................... Amy B. Lyman 647 World Happenings................. James H. Anderson 654 Editorial: Sparks Struck from the Conference Fires..... 658 Guide Lessons for January.......661
An Exact Model Your Own Figure methods taught by the Agricultural Colleges and U. S. Dept. Of Agricultural Cooperating
THE LOUISE DRESS FORM SET Contains all the necessary material Price $1.00 postage fully prepaid Carpenter Paper Co. SALT LAKE CITY Address all inquiries to Dept. 12 Make your own Dress Form according to
My Dixie Home By President A. W., Ivins (Melody: "Maryland, My Maryland')
Beloved Southland, dear to me, My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home! My Heart in song I raise to thee,. My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home! Land where my fathers toiled and died, Once scorned of men, but now their pride, I'll sing thy praises far and wide, My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!
I love thy rugged cliffs and peaks. My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home! Thy valleys broad and canyons deep, My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home! Thy hills where wander sheep and kine, Thy gift of honey, milk and wine, Thy moon's white beams and bright sunshine, My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!
Thy churches, schools and temple white, My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home! Have kept thy children's conscience bright, My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home! Thy sons are blessed with wisdom rare, Thy daughters clothed in virtue fair, Their loyalty beyond compare, My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!
Wherever I go over land or sea, My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home! My heart returns in love to thee, My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home! If blessed with wealth beyond degree, Or humbled by adversity, Thou ever still to me shall be, My Dixie Home! My Dixie Home!
PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT OVERLOOKING DIXIE ON HURRICANE MOUNTAIN
THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. VIII NOVEMBER, 1921 No. 11
A Memorable Journey to the Scenic Glories of Southern Utah By Susa Young Gates
The recent sight-seeing group convention and trip to southern Utah, planned by President Heber J. Grant, and President Anthony W, Ivins was partly arranged on the invitation of the principal railroad men of this Inter-mountain region, and it was both important, in its bearing upon the future, and happy in its personnel and arrangements.
"See America First," has been written across the advertising pages of railroad folders and guide books issued in this country, for years. It is the sentiment of every true American who loves his country and realizes that knowledge concerning our own homeland is essential to the cultured person before he begins to study other lands and visit other homes. It is an adaptation of the scriptural phrase "Know thyself, O man." "See. Utah First," should be written for a season at least, across every auto route or log-book, railroad guide, newspaper, and magazine published in this state. Utah possesses within herself more varied scenery, perhaps, than any other state in the Union. The towering crags and mountain dells, the snow capped pinnacles and rugged canyon defiles of the northern section of the state have been advertised, and visited extensively by native Utahns as well as by thousands of tourists and pleasure seekers; but the southern part of the state, with its scenic resources, until recently, has been a sealed book even to the people who have been born and brought up in the valleys of that section of the state.; A few daring adventurers, cattlemen and the native Indians, during the half century of residence there, have seen what is now known as Little Zion Canyon, the Cedar Breaks, and Bryce 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Canyon, to say nothing of the Kaibab Forest which extends sixty miles on and beyond the dividing line between Utah and Arizona south of Kanab, clean onto the rim of the Grand Canyon; but the vast majority of the people who have lived in Panguitch, Kanab, St. George, Cedar and Parowan, with the other little villages near them—few indeed of these natives of southern Utah have ever troubled to make the trip which now is considered one of the great artistic and educational sights of this United States of ours.
It would be a good idea for the Boy Scouts and Mutual Improvement Associations to make a business of paying visits to these wonders, for the trip possesses an educational value impossible to overestimate. Such scenes widen the vision, enlarge the spirit, and bring the soul into communion with God through his masterpieces. Some of the earnest and forward looking men of the southland long have been endeavoring to impress these thoughts upon the people of the state, and especially upon the business and railroad men. It is true, their motives may be the naturally mingled motives of men everywhere, a desire to improve business and financial conditions, to develop natural resources, and to bring people into the country; but our own people are too sensible of the purposes of the Lord, and too idealistic, not to feel instinctively the spiritual value of all this recent propaganda.
The Church party was invited by President Heber J. Grant, whose lovely and gracious wife, Mrs. Augusta W. Grant, accompanied him. The party were to attend two conferences after the visit to the canyons, one at Kanab, September 10 and 11, and the other at St. George, September 17 and 18; Elder Robert L. Judd, son-in-law of President Grant, represented the General Board of the Sunday School, and he was accompanied by his wife, Mrs. Mary Grant Judd; President Anthony W. Ivins, who had long planned such a trip but whose wife, Mrs. Elizabeth Snow Ivins, daughter of Dixie's great pioneer and beloved leader Apostle Erastus Snow, was not able to go, had his youngest daughter, Fulvia, with him. He and Fulvia traveled with his son-in-law, Professor Vincent Cardon, the new principal of the Cedar Branch Agricultural College, with his wife Mrs. Leah Ivins Cardon, and their two little daughters Lucy-Beth, and Margaret. Elder George A. Smith, of the council of the Twelve, the newly appointed superintendent of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, was accompanied by his wife, Mrs. Lucy Woodruff Smith who represented the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations; his daughter, Mrs. Emily Smith Stewart, represented the General Board of the Primary Associations, and they were in the auto driven by that excellent autoist, Elder LeRoi C. Snow, of the General Board Y. M. M. I. A., son of President A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 619 Lorenzo Snow. Mrs. Susa Young Gates was from the General Board of the Relief Society, and Mrs. Ruth May Fox, one of the Presidency of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, were with the party, although Mrs. Fox was obliged to return after the conference in Kanab.
The magnetism and enthusiasm of youth was added to the party by the exquisite beauty of Fulvia Ivins, the bubbling vivacity of Emily Smith Stewart, and the refined dignity of the two young matrons, Mary Grant Judd and Leah Ivins Cardon; while the irrepressibly childish joy of Lucy-Beth, and Margaret, were a never-failing source of delight.
The railroad party was headed by the well-known railroad leader and publicist, Mr. W. S. Basinger, Passenger Traffic Manager of the Union Pacific System, who came from Omaha for this trip. The details of the sight-seeing trip itself were arranged by the genial General Passenger Agent of the O. S. L. R. R., Mr. Daniel S. Spencer, who is a past-grandmaster in such matters. Mr, A. L. Craig, General Passenger Agent of the U. P., accompanied Mr. Basinger from Omaha. From Los Angeles came Mr. Marius de Brabant, Assistant Traffic Manager of Los Angeles and Salt Lake R. R., a courtly Frenchman with old-world manners and new-world dynamics. Charm and refinement shed its genial ray upon the railroad party through the delightful personality of Mrs. Armstrong, who accompanied her husband, Mr. W. R. Armstrong, Chief Engineer of the O. S. L. R. R. The superintendent of the Grand Canyon National Park, Mr. D. L. Reaburn came up from Arizona to join the party. Colonel Wesley
MISS FULVIA IVINS
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE E. King, of the Commercial Club, with Dr S. Bascom Lawrence S. Manager, President of the Salt Lake Transportation company, Mr. Guy, President of National Park Transportation Company, Mr. Eyre Powell, live-wire publicity man of the U. P. System from Cheyenne, Wyoming, Mr. and Mr. All Pyper, chauffeurs all came from Salt Lake with the railroad party. President Henry Hunt, of the Parowan Stake of Zion, and state Senator, joined the party at Cedar, as did Mr. Randall L. Gibson, secretary of the Cedar City Commercial Club. At Kanab President of the Kanab Stake of Zion, joined the party on Angel Point by way of Kanab to Bryce Canyon, Panguitch, Parowan, Cedar Breaks, returning down Cedar Canyon to Cedar City and Lund, thence to St. George and to Angel Point.
From every indication there could be no doubt but that these A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 621 ists into and through Southern Utah. Utah people know the splendid work done by Mr. D. S. Spencer,
Of course, this would be a stupendous
MR. D. S. SPENCER
undertaking when one knows that approximately 100,000 people visit Yellowstone Park each year. When Mr. Spencer began his campaign there fifteen hey were joined at Cedar city by the remainder of the party who went by autos and spent the night in Cedar. There is a remarkable awakening in this pretty little city, A beautiful new hotel first building in the town. There is quite a section of a Main Street here, with two drug stores, two meat markets and several dry goods and general merchandise stores. Many hundreds of 622 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. tourists pass through here weekly, and good camping grounds are arranged for those who wish to avail themselves of this privilege. Just outside of town is a pathetic mixture of tepee and white man's shacks, forming an Indian suburb which houses a little group of placid looking Lamanites.
A number of the visitors who had arrived before the railroad men, took a trip up to the Cedar Breaks, on Tuesday, September 5. The road was about twice as narrow as the Brighton road and one half again as steep. Ruts were plentiful and mud holes not rare, but the party was engineered by that delightful optimist, Wilford Day, (his name should have been 'Dawn-O'-Day") whose persistent cheerfulness and refusal to recognize mud-holes or ruts as such, his delightful wit and constant appeals to one's sense of fair-play, with his rich drafts on the scenic futures, kept the whole party keyed up with hope and persistence to climb and
MR. W. S. BASINGER IN LITTLE ZION CANYON
climb even if the whole engine burst and truth ran out like a flood from beneath. His quick assurance, when asked if there were any more hills to climb, that there were no more hills, "just the same hill" all the rest of the way, robbed the elevation of its terrors, even the panting engine took a new spurt, and we all reached the rim of the Cedar Breaks in high good humor, The sight was well worth the effort and the climb; Cedar Breaks is a Little Grand Canyon. After you have visited the Grand Canyon, you can go back to the Cedar Breaks and feel that your smaller portion of magnificence and grandeur, at Cedar, is far more fitted to your finite comprehension, and you do not feel so lost A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 623 in the immensity of glory. You can comfortably trail down a way into the Breaks and look off to the glorious peaks, below and beyond you, with quite a chummy feeling of your personal nearness and the gorge's mortal possibilities.
The marvel to the person who has lived in Dixie for many years is that this scenic beauty has remained till this decade for exploitation and observation. The whole party reached the Wiley camps, at Little Zion, the next evening, September 6th. At Cedar Breaks, as at the Grand Canyon, you stand on the edge of the earth crack and look way below you into the vast reaches of imprisoned glory. In Little Zion, the towering red and yellow fantastic crags and peaks rise up into the blue sky in quite a natural manner. That is the way we have always looked at mountains and peaks and rocks and crags, so that no matter how high they are, nor how brilliant in color or fantastic in shape and contour, you feel quite at home with your feet on the earth as you travel along the road between them. The awful shock that comes to you when you stand on the rim of Bryce or the Grand Canyon or on the rim of Cedar Breaks is the sensation of finding that the earth has opened at your feet and disclosed another unknown world of crags and peaks and mountains miles below you, too far down for your eye even to differentiate one from the other. You feel that in some uncanny way this old earth has played a trick on you, by gashing its bosom for you to gaze in awe at its hidden interior. As a matter of sanity you rather prefer old Mother Earth to keep herself normally covered, with you decently on the surface.
The Wiley camps at Little Zion are complete in arrangement, excellent in service, and extremely comfortable in detail; food and beds are of the best. The only drawback is the fewness of tents, when so large a party as ours were present. It will take a little time before even the resources of the Wiley' camps can afford to provide for great parties. As a matter of fact, large parties go rarely there. For smaller parties of a dozen or more, the arrangements are more than satisfactory. Mr. And Mrs. Wiley themselves, who originated the Wiley Camps all over Yellowstone Park, were there, and greeted the party with genial courtesy. At the request of a hundred or two visitors from the nearby towns, a meeting was held that night in which the delightful periods of Major King, the humor of Mr. Basinger, and Mr. Armstrong, were varied by the forceful remarks of President Grant and the moving and finished eloquence of President Anthony W. Ivins; all of which offered a fitting tribute to the glory with which the party were surrounded. Assurances of future efforts to develop these natural resources through better roads, railroad help,
GROUP TAKEN AT ANDERSON'S. RANCH, BELLEVUE
A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 625 resourcefulness which will place him in the front ranks of his chosen business in life. Such young men are a credit to the Church and the State. Grapes, found on the sunny slopes of French vineyards, and the only ones he had found since leaving his home that possessed the black grapes, with tons of watermelons, marked the triumphal progress of the party at every stop through Dixieland, Another picture was taken while the party were at a table spread, in Hurricane, by Brother Isom, assisted by the friendly citizens of that live little city. A stay overnight was made in Kanab by the whole party, and the next day the trip was taken through the exquisitely beautiful reserve, Kaibab Forest. The Kaibab Forest lies in what is luscious peeled, dried peaches ever boxed, weighed, and prepared for shipping, in any land or clime. With a railroad the Dixie people should have a gold mine in the natural products.
Going up the steep incline of Hurricane Hill, in a smooth running, easy-riding auto, is a violent contrast for the Dixieite who has negotiated that rock-ribbed, winding, sandy-spotted dugway in a groaning and creaking lumber-wagon drawn by horses, or beside or behind them, who were reeking with foamy sweat, tottering from wildly-swinging single-trees and tongue-lolling 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. from heat and thirst. O Yes, it was an abysmal change! A significant picture of the journey was the picture of our President standing on the top of the mountain and gazing at the brilliant contrasts of black rock, red sandstone hills, and garden-green towns spread out below him as Dixieland unfolded to his gaze. Pine-tree forest which is varied by open parks and peopled by 20,000 deer. The deer are not afraid, and you often see them grazing in herds in the near distance,;
NORTH RIM OF GRAND CANYON
At Bright Angel Point we found Mrs, Parry, the daughter of the Wileys, in charge of the camp, and we here again were made comfortable and happy. Some venturesome ones took A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 627 it often terrifies women and even men, some of whom are reduced to hysterics. It certainly tries the knees of aged climbers, and only youth and intrepid nerves really fit the observer to enjoy the sensation. Presidents Grant, Ivins and Elder George A. Smith climbed up, and soon the camp was flooded with the ringing melody of "O, ye mountains high!" Another delightful time was experienced at the Canyon rim, music and speeches varying the evening's entertainment. At the Rim we met Mr. George Q. Morris and his famous wife with the beautiful voice, Emma Ramsey Morris; and Professor Beckstrand and wife of the University of Utah, but they remained with us only over night.
BRYCE CANYON
The R. R. Party left early the next morning. The Church. Party remained a few morning hours at the Point, and then reached Kanab that evening, September 9, ready for the conference which was to be held on Saturday and Sunday, September 10 and 11. The meetings were unusually interesting, and the soul-stirring address on loyalty by President Anthony W. Ivins touched the people deeply; while the timely remarks of Elder George A. Smith, closing with the powerful testimonies of President Heber J. Grant were forceful and inspiring. Rarely has the President spoken with more convincing power! Each of the visitors in every convention did the work allotted to him or her with vigor and dispatch. Elder Smith has so recently returned from his mission abroad that he found eager listeners to his every word. 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. And right nobly did he respond to the sympathetic desires of his audience.
Elder Judd was particularly apt in his talk concerning the two boys who started out with equal chances, but ending at opposite ends because of different use of life's chances. While at La Virkin Elder Judd met his aged father, that Dixie patriot and state-wide horticulturist, Bishop Thomas Judd, who had ridden over from St. George to see his son, although in feeble health.
Farmers and stock raisers all through this section of the country are very much discouraged with the financial outlook, as they are indeed all over the United States, but the spirit of the people is beautiful and harmonious. President William Seegmiller of this stake has a wide vision, and deserves the love and confidence so generously given to him by the people of his stake.
President Grant returned September 12, with a portion of the party, visiting Bryce Canyon near Panguitch, and returning home about the middle of the week. Bryce Canyon is like and yet unlike all the others. Nature, working in untold ages through the agency of her master builder—erosion—has created here, in Bryce Canyon, in the heart of southern Utah's Wonderland, an appalling spectacle that is destined to charm countless mortals in the years to come. It ranks with the greatest of the world's wonders. In fact it is the only known spectacle of its kind in existence. It has proven its popularity as a world wide scenic attraction by the thousands of tourists who have already visited here, and who have A MEMORABLE JOURNEY. 629 pronounced it as undoubtedly the greatest single scenic eyeful in the world.
Bryce Canyon is not really a canyon but a giant amphitheatre or basin about two miles wide and three miles long. It lies on the edge of a high plateau, at an elevation of eight thousand feet, in the heart of the Sevier National Forest in Garfield county, Utah. Vast and mighty miracles have been wrought here; for the softer parts of the mountain have been eroded away, leaving an indescribably weird array of huge towers, spires, minarets and temples adorning the sides and bottom of the canyon. The first view of it as you arrive is from the top or rim, and at the beginning there is far too much to see; far too much to comprehend. The imposing monuments and labyrinthine depths of this tremendous chasm, all in a mass of unbelievably gorgeous colors, fairly stagger the mind and move the soul to awe and adoration at the manifestation of an agency too great for human comprehension. In places there is a sheer drop of eight hundred feet from the rim to the floor of the canyon, and many of the giant monoliths far exceed in height the tallest office building.
President Anthony W. Ivins and Elder George A. Smith and associates went on to St. George holding the conference scheduled in that city for September 17 and 18. The festival in St. George was on during that week, It consisted chiefly of Wild West shows and a grand concert, by Emma Lucy Gates and Frances Grant The people were delighted with the show and with the concert given by these two artists. Emma Lucy came down by auto with a party, President Joseph Quinney and wife of the Logan stake, Mr. Albert E. Bowen, whose wife happens to be Emma Lucy herself, Dr. John A. Widtsoe and wife, with Miss Frances Grant. The party left St. George immediately after the concert, driving back to Cedar for a concert there September 17, after which they made the rounds of the Canyons. The conference which followed was successful in every particular. A number of the visitors attended services in the St. George temple and enjoyed the happy association with that veteran temple worker and long time St. George Temple President, David H. Cannon.
No more beautiful and healthful winter resort is found in America than St. George. Dry, warm, sunny, and surrounded with dazzling jet black, red and gold mountain scenery, the home of superior and genial Latter-day Saints, with the supreme attraction of a temple as the jewel in its crown of rare semi-tropical beauty, the wonder is that our people who travel do not spend their winters here instead of in that misty, soggy-wet, crowded, vanity-loving winter-resort, Los Angeles!
The temple is never crowded. Hundreds more could be ac- 630 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE commodated by skillful planning, and the Saints could partake of the pure, heavenly influence therein maintained. President Cannon has preserved clear-cut memory and careful records the instructions and sayings President Brigham Young who spent his last winter on earth within these sacred walls, instructing the brethren in minute details concerning the ordinance work revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith and taught in careful exactitude to Brigham Young by the Prophet himself. The ceremonies are precisely the same as given there under President Young, in 1877, with a single exception resident Edward H. Snow, is a rare combination of financial condition is safer perhaps in St. George than in some other sections of the southern country, At least, their own intelligent and appropriate discrimination concerning the value of education for young people, and the vast possibilities of the future for the youth of this Church and State, He rendered called home by the serious illness of her beloved husband. The Sisters in the party each spoke at the various meetings, A MEMORABLE JOURNEY, 631 far from well, still remains on the stake board giving the new President the benefit of her experience and counsel, ranch, where his cattle ranged; the St. George fields where he watered alfalfa or hunted young quail and cotton-tail rabbits, all of joy. In Sabbath Services at the St. George conference with deep feeling powerful faith of the men who had laid the foundation of these isolated cities in the southern counties, He paid tribute to the Music was of a superior character. The St. George festival was closed with the annual distribution of fruit to visitors and citizens. Not less enjoyable was the return of Smith, to St. George; for St, George was named for his grand- 632 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. father and Elder Smith himself spent a long winter there rallying his health forces a few years since. His own geniality and brotherly kindness, together with his wife and daughter's kindly and attractive personalities, left delightful impressions upon their old-time and new friends in this southern city of the Saints.
Elder LeRoi C. Snow, who accompanied Elder Smith, also gave good evidence of inheriting his father's quick apperceptions, gentle courtesy, and true loyalty to the gospel message. With the coming railroad and a possible oil boom, St. George may be swamped with modern business men and institutions; but in his remarks on the Sabbath day, President Ivins urged upon the people to get out of debt, to keep out of debt, and above all not to mortgage their homes, much less dispose of them in the present financial crisis. He deplored the season of extravagance which has swept over our people in common with the rest of the world and counseled the Saints to habits of thrift and economy.
President Edward H. Snow has long administered the affairs of this stake with wisdom and kindness; while his associates have ably assisted him in maintaining the fatherly solicitude which was so much a part of the labors of his great father, President Erastus Snow. When one observes the history of this section of our state, one is reminded of the saying of President Brigham Young: He was asked what could be raised in Dixie, and his characteristic reply was, "Men and women." A study of the roster of notables who have performed great service in this Church, in colonizing Arizona, New Mexico and Old Mexico; in educational and musical fields; in missions, both as presiding officers and as faithful missionaries in civic and business circles of the state and nation; as stake and general authorities, including both men and women—in all of these walks of life the Dixie descendants of those faithful, isolated pioneers will be found to have written their names in undying letters upon the scroll of history. Whatever may come to Dixie in the future, no finer crop will ever be raised than the men and women who have been born or reared there. God bless Dixie, and her people.
Two charming reminders and mementos of the trip came to the members of the party; the one from President Heber J. Grant, being the new history of the "Mormon Settlement in Arizona," the other being a handsome photograph album filled with the official pictures taken along the route and presented by Mr. W. S. Basinger.
Origin, Object and Destiny of Women
The following is taken from The Mormons, published in New York City by the late President John Taylor, of August 29, 1857, the paper containing it being furnished us by Robert Maw, of Plain City:
The Latter-day Saints have often been ridiculed on account of their belief in the pre-existence of spirits, and in marrying for time and for all eternity, both being Bible doctrines. We have often been requested to give our views in relation to the principles, but considered the things of the kingdom belonged to the children of the kingdom, therefore not meet to give them to those without. But being very politely requested by a lady a few days since, (a member of the Church) to answer the following questions, we could not consistently refuse;—viz., Where did I come from? What is my origin? What am I doing here? Whither am I going? And what is my destiny, after having obeyed the truth, if faithful to the end?" For her benefit and all others concerned, we will endeavor to answer the questions in brief, as we understand them. The reason will be apparent for our belief in the pre-existence of spirits, and in marrying for time and for eternity.
Lady, whence comest thou? Thine origin? What art thou doing here? Whither art thou going, and what is thy destiny? Declare unto me if thou hast understanding? Knowest thou not, that thou art a spark of Deity, struck from the fire of his eternal blaze, and brought forth in the midst of eternal burnings? Knowest thou not that eternities ago, thy spirit, pure and holy, dwelt in thy heavenly Father's bosom, and in his presence, with thy mother, one of the queens of heaven, thou wert surrounded by thy brother and sister spirits in the spirit world, among the Gods? That as thy spirit beheld the scenes transpiring there, and thou grew in intelligence, thou sawest worlds upon worlds organized and peopled with thy kindred spirits, take upon them tabernacles, die, but resurrected and receive their exaltation on the redeemed worlds they once dwelt upon. Thou, being willing and anxious to imitate them, waiting and desirous to obtain a body, a resurrection and exaltation also, and having obtained permission. Thou made a covenant with one of thy kindred spirits, to be thy guardian angel while in mortality; also covenanted with two others, male and female spirits, that thou wouldst come and take a tabernacle through their lineage, and become one 634 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. of their offspring. You also chose a kindred spirit whom you loved in the spirit world, (and had permission to come to this planet and take a tabernacle,) to be your head, stay, husband, and protection on the earth, and to exalt you in the eternal worlds. All these were arranged, likewise the spirits that should tabernacle through your lineage. Thou longed, thou sighed, and prayed to thy Father in heaven for the time to arrive when thou couldst come to this earth, which had fled and fallen from where it was first organized, near the planet Kolob, leaving thy father and mother's bosoms and all thy kindred spirits to come to earth, take a tabernacle, and to imitate the deeds of those you had seen exalted before you. At length the time arrived, and thou heardst the voice of thy Father, saying. "Go, daughter, to yonder lower world, and take upon thee a tabernacle, and work out thy probation with fear and trembling and rise to exaltation. But, daughter, remember you go on this condition, that is, you are to forget all things you ever saw, or knew to be transacted here; but you must go and become one of the most helpless of all beings that I have created, while in your infancy subject to sickness, pain, tears mourning, sorrow and death. But when truth shall touch the cords of your heart they will vibrate, then intelligence shall illuminate your mind, and shed its lustre in your soul, and you shall begin to understand the things you once knew, but which had gone from you, you shall then begin to understand and know the object of your creation. Daughter, go, and be faithful in your second estate. Keep it as faithful as thou hast thy first estate." Thy spirit—filled with joy and thanksgiving—rejoiced in thy Father, and rendered praise to his holy name, and the spirit world resounded in anthems of praise and rejoicing to the Father of spirits. Thou badest father, mother and all farewell, and along with thy guardian angel, you came on this terraqueous globe. The spirits thou hadst chosen for parents came and took tabernacles. Through their lineage; (and your head having left the spirit world some years previous ) thou didst come a spirit pure and holy; thou hast taken upon thee a tabernacle, thou hast watches over thee. Thou hast chosen him you loved in the spirit world to be thy companion Now crowns, thrones, exaltations and dominions are in reserve for thee in the eternal worlds, and the way is opened for thee to return back into the presence of the heavenly Father, if thou wilt only abide by, and walk in a, celestial law, fulfil the designs of thy creation, and hold out to the end. That when mortality is laid in the tomb, you may go down to your grave in peace, arise in glory, and receive your everlasting reward in the resurrection of the just, along with Priestess—queen unto thy heavenly Father, and a glory to thy. Husband and offspring, to bear the souls of men, to people other mate destiny, if faithful Lady, the cup is within thy reach, drink then the heavenly draught and live,
Yarrow By Raveing Lundgren
It is too early for rowan, Still, there is rue, Rue has its charm. The heartsease died in the frost. The hesperis too, I gather yarrow, bitter of leaf, Hardly friend of the barrens. Undismayed pioneer, Known to the tired of foot and heart, After your winter, You hail it comrade, A leaf of good cheer. A leaf of good cheer, Bride's Wreath of yarrow—by chance I found the charmful, old-fashioned thought.
636 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
The old wife made of it steepage for pain. When the world was new It had magic to find a friend. Or carry away from here to yonder, If mentioned with rue. And a fairy's cap. By yarrow and rue, Name the place you would rather be, Over, beyond, away, and through, Name the place you would rather be, And be there too.
Now the rowan tree works a wild, glad spell. Yellow trefoil, if worn Nightly on a believer's breast, brings dreams—for the wise to scorn. And lad's love has a proven power. And mistletoe. And thorn. A whitethorn torch for a new hearth-fire. They are not forlorn Who know trefoil and rowan tree and mistletoe and thorn.
The ash tree's a northern mystic. A line of old wives' lore Keeps out malice and evil spite with dill hung over the door. Sesame, fern, and forget-me-not, hazel, and many more Weird sweet workers of witchery, the charmed heart names them o'er. Recorded in quaintest botany these, and as many more.
But the bitter yarrow, the bitter rue, Tangful breaths that the young earth drew, Fairy's charm-leaf, old wives' brew, Showing no sweetness, they strangely woo The troubled of heart as no others do.
CORRECTION Our October number published the story, "The Wages. Of Sin" with the authors name given as Lucy Guyman. Her married name of Bloomfield should have been added.
[The Missionary's Recompense] Morgan was weary and footsore. He had traveled far that day through endless stretches, so it seemed, with never a habitation in sight. For some reason or other his companion was missing it strange that he had not heard the team coming Elder Morgan gratefully accepted the offer and climbed into ride the driver, The elder thanked God for his help and eagerly accepted the invitation, For a few moments the two rode in silence and then Elder "My wife and I have been hoping and praying that we might find a belief which really satisfied our hungry souls," said Mr. Forbes, "Before the death of our little son religion didn't matter much, We seemed merely to live without giving it a thought," Sometimes takes sorrow and even death to open our "My wife and I have been told by many," said Mr, Forbes, "that death ended conscious existence, and that when we laid our son to his last rest it was the end, It did not seem reasonable when I remembered where Christ said: 'I am the resurrection and the life, and whosoever believeth in me, though he be dead, yet shall he live, and 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.' The scriptures prove that there is a brighter and more glorious life to come after this one."
"But how can a soul be saved after a person is dead?" asked Mr. Forbes, "I shall try to answer that question to your satisfaction," replied Morgan, "Where was Christ during the three days that his body lay in the tomb?"
"I don't know."
"He was preaching to the souls in Paradise, according to St, Peter, and Paradise does not mean heaven, but a place where The ride continued for a while in silence and then Mr, Forbes asked: "Are you a 'Mormon?' "
"Yes," Stand?"
Mr. Forbes drove in deep thought to the door of his farm house. As he kissed his wife and told her who the missionary sell the farm. In the meantime stay with us and tell us more about your wonderful religion,"
Don't Let the Baby Forget Me By L. Lula Greene Richards
Don't let the baby forget me When I shall be far away— Show her my photograph often, Tell her about me each day. Others will note my long absence Sometimes almost with regret— Think then of what I am saying, Don't let the baby forget.
Chorus: Show her my photograph often Tell her of me every day, Don't let the baby forget me, When I am far, far away!
Friends will enquire about me, Neighbors will ask how I fare, Home love I know will be loyal Naming me daily in prayer. Storm clouds may gather and darken, Hardships my way may beset— Pray that my faith may not waver, Don't let the baby forget!
Chorus: Show her my photograph often, etc.
Joy in the blessed home coming After the mission is done— Fore-taste of beautiful heaven With life's great victory won. Duty has called, I am going, Owing my Savior a debt. Let us thank God and be faithful— Don't let the baby forget!
Chorus: Show her my photograph often, Tell her of me every day, Don't let the baby forget me When I am far, far away!
[Out of the World (Continued)]
"Oh, don't go down there!" She pleaded piteously. "They'll kill you! They're all drunk and won't listen to reason! Talk to them from the window—oh, dear that! What they've done!"
Walter crept stealthily to the front room just in time to hear the landlord—a striker himself, but one who evidently had been damaging his property, some of the more timid spirits fled from the scene not to be recognized, and after some argument, shuffled sulkily away, "Thank breathe his mother, "Oh, run away from that Church; I'm afraid some day."
"Not a member of Jesus Christ," he said as he prepared to resume his rest. The next morning Walter feared somewhat to the office, groups of men and women were gathered to walk through the happenings of the night, and by and "Brigham" they passed by, with threatening gestures, and several times Walter', heart was in his mouth as a result] reached the office was immediately introduced to a detective from New Peters, Walter was instructed to take dictation from Peters, and warned that under no circumstances was matter's affairs, "that was some scrap we were in last night!" offered Peters a few minutes later, as he slouched into the room, a chair in Walter's
"Were you in it>" Should I! See that scar on my Cheek? How did—that's where she shrieked shattering glass in my direction when I stayed at home to come to the front door and berate the mob for OUT OF THE WORLD. 641 "Well, you'll get the particulars when I dictate my report; but it was like this: I had ten men with me to help guard the scabs—fifty of 'em—come all the way from New York—and a dirtier bunch I never saw, every last one of them picked up in the slums! I can tell you its business I don't like, but it pays me well, so what can I do?
"Well, we hardly got switched onto the spur track before the trouble began. They must have had pickets on the job, for every bell in the country began to ring, and after a while stones began to fly through the car windows. But that wasn't a circumstance to what was pulled off when we got near the mill gate. Then the strikers got after us with pistols, rifles, old shot guns and everything else. Most of it went through one window and out the
"My men returned the fire in good shape, and I took a shot once in a while myself, but it was so dark that we could hardly see an inch in front of us. The engine slowed down and all of a sudden the back of our car was dynamited, and with that the mob stopped shootin', The engineer says that just after the blowup, a fellow jumped in the cab, put a pistol to his head and made
"How on earth did you manage to get back with the coach "It's a mystery to me how the wheels ever kept to the tracks—but they did, and we got: back over the trestle when they set it
"How'll we get the strike-breakers in now?"
"I reckon the company will get out an injunction against the union that'll stop interference with the scabs. I managed to get here in a closed automobile. I imagine, though, from what I've had with other strikes, that it'll take the militia to get them in
The guard was right: the men were in an ugly mood. While 642 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. injunction was openly disregarded, and the strikers, in desperation, laid violent hands upon every non-union worker that dared appear on the streets. This brought the militia—two companies from Saratoga and one from Schenectady. The mill virtually was turned into an armed camp, a powerful searchlight being mounted in the top of the sulphite tower, with sharpshooters watching at all points of the compass for possible depredations on the part of the strikers, For a time, it looked as if the men would speedily win their demands. The company was able to obtain only the lowest class of laborers—and very few of them. After they were secured, it was like "pulling teeth" to keep them. They demanded everything under the sun—comfortable quarters, good food and plenty of it, and high wages. All these demands were met, the company, apparently, being willing to pay them double what their former employees asked; and, strange to say, the eatables which were furnished were much more abundant and of a better quality than most of the strikers had been able to afford in their homes under normal conditions. During this trying period Walter was offered the position of night timekeeper to take the place of the former man who had resigned shortly after the strike was inaugurated because of his union sympathies. Walter hesitated about accepting, and not until he had sought out Mr. Whitman and learned: his views on the subject did he give a decided answer. Mr. Whitman told him to go ahead—that the former timekeeper had secured a good job in another town, and that the men desired that the well-being of the office force be guarded. Walter expressed to Mr. Whitman his sympathy with the union, though natural loyalty to the company impelled him to be careful what sentiments he expressed openly. Mr. Whitman took advantage of the occasion to suggest that Walter might be of service to the union by keeping him informed of the daily production of paper at the mill. However, Walter did not receive the suggestion very favorably and made no promises. The production phase gradually assumed the importance of a deciding factor in the strike situation. The flow of strikebreakers was satisfactory to the officials of the company and the organization at the mill became more efficient—so the company reported. Suddenly, the number of cars shipped jumped to the daily average under normal conditions, and the employers gave out the news that normal production had been reached. Discouragement began to make itself manifest in the ranks of the strikers at the news. Many had gone to nearby cities seeking temporary work only to meet with repulse, as a rule. Conditions in the village rapidly became alarming. Starvation OUT OF THE WORLD. - 643 was approaching and children went crying to school because of insufficient nourishment, while mothers with babes at their breasts pleaded piteously for more food. The funds of the organization were practically exhausted and help from the outside was insufficient to replenish the treasury. One afternoon, when Walter's Methodist friend, John Perkins, who had remained with the company was explaining to Walter that he was satisfied with his wages and too old to strike, anyway—started for home, boys with cans full of stones bombarded him. He dared not lay hands on his tormenters, for fathers were nearby who would be only too glad to take vengeance upon him under the guise of protecting their offspring. As he proceeded up the street, he quickened his pace, now and then ducking and dodging to avoid a larger missile than usual. Finally, to the delight of the youngsters, he took to his heels, his long, stilty legs swinging desperately over the flagstones to the accompaniment of roars of laughter from the adult onlookers and yells of derision from his tormenters. The office force witnessed the reception John received and feared to start out, for the uproar drew youngsters from all directions—like a street arc lamp attracts moths—each individual urchin bent on doing his full share to make the discomforture of Perkins complete. The superintendent granted permission to depart via. The yard gate, which would avoid the mob, but Crader, whose wife was awaiting him with horse and buggy, elected to accompany her, and Walter felt that he, himself, would be able to get through all right as it was pretty generally known among the strikers that he leaned toward their cause. Crader started out just ahead of Walter, drawing the mob of boys after him—Perkins having reached home—and when he turned off into another street it appeared that Walter would get by unscathed. However, as the horse gained. On the boys, they dropped the pursuit and upon spying Walter the cry went up, "Here comes another!" Walter almost ran past the intersection of the streets, but it was apparent that he could not escape. The howls of his pursuers rapidly sounded louder in his ears, while the shrill taunts and cries of women along the streets were added to the din. Several men elbowed him roughly as he passed hurriedly along. Just as the boys were about to overtake him, a girl suddenly stepped out and sturdily planted herself in front of the yelling rabble. "Back!" she commanded, "don't you dare touch him—he's for the union.", Walter almost stopped in amazement—it was Edith Whitman! A stone that whizzed dangerously close to his head brought him to his Senses and Promptly Caused him to resume his hurried pace. "She's a brick!" he muttered as backward glance showed the crowd of boys dispersing in confusion. XIII. A week passed — the sixth of the strike — and Walter sat in his home reading the anti-"Mormon" book which Edith had given him. Almost unnoticed, the daylight failed, and Walter arose to light the lamp, when someone stepped lightly on the front porch and pulled the bell. Before opening the door, he called cautiously, "Who's there?" "It's Edith," came the answer. His pulse quickened at the sound of her voice. "I dropped in to leave you this 'Mormon' book you let me take some time ago," she explained hesitatingly. Walter's eyes flashed for a moment — he took the tract without a word. Edith was plainly embarrassed. "Where's your mother?" she inquired, uncertainly "She's lying down," was the somewhat short answer. "Shall I call her?" "Oh, no; I was just wondering how she was. If you don't mind, I'll sit down and rest for a moment, as I hurried a little coming up the hill," she said suggestively. "Why certainly, Edith! sit down ; pardon me for not offering you a chair," he apologized. "How are all your folks? By the way," he stammered — his heart was thoroughly melted now — "I want to thank you for what you did the other day — it was great ! I'll have to confess that my legs were shaking under me, for some of the rocks were coming pretty close. You're a brick !" "That's all right, Walter; I didn't want to see you get hurt, and I knew you were for the union. Then, too, father was nearby and he came out and helped me stop them." "Did you really care whether I was hurt or not, Edith?" he asked eagerly. The hot color mounted her cheeks, and her lashes dropped. "I couldn't bear to see any of my friends stoned," she answered simply. "Ah, then you consider me a friend still?" he pursued. "Yes—" "I'm glad, and I hope some day I can repay what you did for me — " "You can, Walter," she interrupted feverishly, "right now !" "How?" "By telling me how much paper the mill is making!" she replied tensely, leaning forward and looking him square in face. OUT OF THE WORLD. 645 For a few moments he thought earnestly, swaying between duty and— "Edith, I cannot! Much as I sympathize with the union, I cannot betray my trust." "But Walter, they never made you promise not to tell, did they?" "No; but I take it that that is understood. I have always made it a rule to work for the interests of my employer and to treat his business affairs as strictly confidential." "But Walter, just think: these men have been working for starvation wages—most of them," she reasoned earnestly. "Just think of it—$1.08 a day for man with a family!" "Oh!" she exclaimed sadly, "I have just come from calling on the Burnham's across from us—you know them they have six children. Walter, a rag man wouldn't give a quarter for the clothes they wear! Before I knocked at the door I heard their little girl—three years old—crying, 'I want some milk!' And I heard her mother say, "There ain't any, Frances.' "I had brought a quart of milk from home with me, and some bread, and you ought to have seen those children eat—and how happy it made me, too! Their mother wouldn't touch a bite, although I could see she was hungry. I went out and got some potatoes for her to cook. It took nearly the last cent I had saved, and I don't know how I'm going to be able to help any one any more," the tears welling in her eyes: It was a revelation to him to visualize this aspect of her beautiful character. "Walter, please tell me how much paper they are making," she begged. "You haven't confirmed the company's statement as to normal production, so I know they are not telling the truth. If you—have any regard for my friendship, you'll tell," she sobbed, "and for the sake of those innocent children!" 7 Woman's tears have ever moved man—especially those of the woman he loved—and Walter was no exception. Tenderly he soothed, "Don't cry, Edith; I'll tell you: the mill is making about one half the normal production," he told tremulously. "How is it they ship so many cars, then?" she asked, looking at him thankfully between her tears. "Simply because each car is only about half full." "What kind of men have they got?" "Some of the men are skilled and try to keep up a high standard; but most of them are an ignorant rabble and do more harm than good. Breakdowns are the rule, and from what I heard the superintendent say the other day, the paper will hardly stand the strain of the printing machines. "Say—what was it you said—if I—?" he teased, abruptly 646 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Changing the subject, and with dancing eyes slyly reaching for her soft, white hand. "My goodness! There's the clock striking nine," she exclaimed, jumping to her feet. "Now, Mr. Sampson," holding up her finger in mock solemnity, "I've cut your locks, and if you're not careful and don't stop squeezing my hand so hard, I'll tell the Philistines!" she proclaimed gaily. A stiffening of resistance soon became apparent among the striking mill workers, Mr. Whitman stating in a meeting of the union the true conditions that obtained at the plant—refusing, however, to divulge the source of his information. Militant tactics gave way to a calm assurance that the strike would be won, and a greater effort than ever was made to gain full public sympathy. It was common talk that the small stockholders of 'the paper company were demanding a settlement, and public opinion finally forced its way into the offices of the State Labor Commission, who, after several hearings, granted the men an increase of five per cent as against the ten per cent demanded. The commission had no power to enforce its ruling, but the company gave heed to its stockholders, and the ever growing clamor from the public that the strike be settled and announced that it would accept the rulings of the Commission, A great change immediately took place at the mill. Soldiers were called home and the private guards released. The strikebreakers, having served their purpose, were, despite promises to the contrary, literally kicked out by the company; and, lest they linger about the community, the strikers sent in an additional "kick" for good measure. To complete the reconciliation, the company financed a picnic for the men in a nearby grove and industrial relations were fully restored. (To be concluded) GILES CANTATA The recent production by Professor Henry Giles of his Cantata, "Plan of Salvation,' was a deserved tribute and triumph for the veteran musician and composer. The rendition was fine, soloists were in good voice, and the theme itself was lofty and inspiring. We recommend our Relief Society Choirs to secure copies of his various original choruses which can be obtained by addressing Professor Giles, 222 Third Ave., Salt Lake City. The performance was given in the Tabernacle Sunday afternoon, under the auspices of the Genealogical Society of Utah, in memory of the visit of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith September 21, 1823.
Notes from the Field By Amy B. Lyman
Alberta Stake. A very interesting survey was recently made in the Alberta stake to determine how extensively the Word of Wisdom is being kept. The following figures have just reached this office: 74.2 per cent of the men of the stake are non-users of tobacco; 16.8 per cent use tobacco habitually, and 9 per cent only occasionally, making a total of 25.8 per cent tobacco users. Tea and coffee are used as follows: of the males, 13.7 per cent habitually use tea, 15.6 per cent use tea only occasionally; 9.1 per cent use coffee habitually, and 17.1 per cent use coffee only occasionally. Of the females, 9.5 per cent use tea habitually, and 11.4 per cent use tea only occasionally; 4.6 per cent use coffee habitually; and 9.6 per cent use coffee only occasionally. Of those who indulge in these stimulants, 92.9 per cent of them began under twenty years of age, and 85 per cent of this number, because of environment. Of those who use stimulants, 92.4 per cent desire to quit; 69.3 per cent of all those in the stake keep the Word of Wisdom, while 98 per cent of the Relief Society stake and ward officers and teachers keep the Word of Wisdom. The best record made in any ward was 89 per cent strict observers of the Word of Wisdom. The lowest record was the ward which could show only 40 per cent observers of the Word of Wisdom.
South Sevier Stake.: During the stake conference, the Relief Society of the stake put on a pageant, "A Century of Latter-day Saint Womanhood" which was outlined in the March Magazine. All the wards in the stake joined together, each being assigned an episode. Monroe wards were given the prologue and the last part of the first episode. They showed what darkness was upon the people a century ago, and how the spirits of evil were triumphant. The dance of the demons was very effective. It was taught by a little blind girl of Monroe who had specialized in dancing. The first part of the first episode was given to the Marysvale Ward, the tableaus that were presented of the Church and Relief Society organizations were especially good, and the costumes true to the period. A very interesting scene was that of the pioneers crossing the plains and their arrival in Utah, carried out by the Joseph and Sevier wards. A scene, painted by Mr. B. Y. Baird, portraying the valley as Brigham Young saw it when he raised on 648 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. his elbow and announced "This is the place," made a strong impression on the minds of the audience. The old time quadrilles and the tableau of Eliza R. Snow and her administration were also such as to merit praise. The third episode was given to the Annabella ward, Utah 1880-1890, representing Zina D. Young and her work, the silk industry. This ward was very fortunate in having some silk worm cocoons, a spinning wheel and loom that were used in the manufacture of silk in early days. In the fourth episode the Central ward illustrated the temple work. The Elsinore ward took the remainder of the episodes, the tableau of the Relief Society wheat saving, the gleaners, dance of the harvesters, peace, and ratification of woman suffrage, 1920. A flag drill was also very successfully executed. The singing and the instrumental music were especially appropriate to the occasion. Five hundred people attended the performance and the door receipts amounted to $122.65. Mr. J. D. Montagne and Mrs. Matilda B. Ross arranged and directed the entertainment. They were assisted by Mrs. Nina Hansen, who was the pageant reader.
Pioneer Stake. The women of Garfield have for some time been in charge of all relief work in the community. The Woman's Club, the Utah Copper Company, the Smelter Relief Company, Utah Copper Dancing Club, and Bingham and Garfield Boarding House all turned their relief funds over to the president of the Relief Society to use for those in need. These organizations felt that the Relief Society was better able to take care of the situation than any one of the others. Members of all these groups are giving personal assistance to the women of the Relief Society in the welfare work. A survey was first made of the town in an effort to ascertain the true condition, and the work was based upon the results of the survey.
Blaine Stake. President Laura J. Adamson, her counselors, secretary and one board member, have just completed a very interesting visit to nine of the Relief Society organizations in the Blaine stake. Nine days were required to make the trip, and a distance of 600 miles traveled without one minute's car trouble. They were privileged to see each organization in regular session, and to hold an officers' meeting besides. At the officers' meeting, each stake officer presented a definite line of work which made for a systematic, profitable meeting. The ward welcomed the officers and extended to them the most hospitable entertainment. The stake officers were delighted to partake of the splendid spirit of love, enthusiasm and cooperation manifested in every organization. Especially were they pleased to find such an excellent en- NOTES FROM THE FIELD, 649 rollment and attendance of young mothers, who showed keen interest in the Relief Society work. The enlistment committee in many of the organizations is doing excellent work in getting the young mothers into the Relief Society, by cooperating with others in providing plans for the caring of the children while the mothers attend meetings. In some wards the teachers have made their 100 per cent visits. In each of these wards, the officer who has charge of the teachers' work is very capable and efficient. The stake officers have visited all the wards in the stake and all have been visited at their regular meetings except one ward, and this will soon be visited, It is sixty-five miles away. The splendid spirit of unity and the activity of the wards in their summer activities have been much enjoyed by the members of the Jerome Relief Society of Blaine Stake. A party was planned for June in the form of a rose festival. The ward house was cleaned and tastefully decorated with pink roses and potted plants. Long streamers of roses hung from the ceiling making a beautiful effect. A tiny pink rose bud together with the name was pinned on each of the members as they entered. After a well arranged program a social half hour with refreshments were enjoyed. Several members were added to the society, and the five visiting stake and ward members considered they had been royally entertained. The July picnic was all that one could desire. The invitations read as follows: "We're having a picnic on Tuesday at ten, We want all the members, Bee-Hive girls and men, Success depends on your being there, So please come along and each do your share. Now do not forget your spoon, fork and plate, It would be sad indeed if you should be late." The Jerome members say that those societies which have not invited the Mutual girls to assist in socials and picnics have missed a great opportunity.
Portneuf Stake. Previous to the beginning of the group conventions this fall, President George Q. Hyde and counselors, of Portneuf Stake, issued a printed circular letter announcing in detail the convention 650 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. to be held in Portneuf stake. The circular contained an explanation of the object of the convention, the arrangement of meetings, etc., and urged all stake and ward officers to be in attendance.
Curlew Stake. The Curlew stake reports a very satisfactory group convention, all wards being represented but one. There was a good attendance of stake and ward officers and two members of the High Council attended all Relief Society sessions.
Boise Stake. At the beginning of the year the Boise stake outlined some of the things contemplated for the social service department as follows: Appointment of social service workers, one in each ward. Duties of these workers were to familiarize themselves with laws of city, county and state; get aid of extension workers or any teacher of cooking, whenever possible, in holding demonstration classes on cooking and serving of foods; cooperate with other social service workers or board of health in city, county and state in anything for the uplift of humanity; get these city, county and state workers to come into society and give lectures on existing conditions and means of remedying them; encourage the keeping of homes in sanitary condition; encourage mothers to read more about the caring and rearing of their families; (books and government bulletins); report anything not in accordance with laws of city, county and state that would benefit society; report any defectives and incurables to proper authorities; report any children who are not attending school of compulsory age; aid in suppressing use of tobacco by working with individuals and reporting law breakers whether they be sellers or smokers (minors); encourage mothers to pay more attention to their families; report breakers of child labor laws.
Modern Health Crusade. With the object of preventing the spread of disease and helping to enforce sanitary and quarantine laws, a health committee of three—with social service class leader as chairman—was appointed in each Relief Society to cooperate with city and county health officials, this committee to assist local boards in providing for emergencies; to be ready to give aid to communities, families or individuals, if called upon by local officers, and expecting the help of the county officers in return in caring for own sick if necessary. These committees were required to familiarize themselves with the laws of the state, and city with conditions in their locality, by reading pamphlets published by the state and by keep- NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 651 ing in touch with city health officials. All members of the Relief Society were asked to report to the local health office and to the ward committee anything they might see at any time detrimental to health in shops, meat markets, grocery stores, in street or in private yards or houses. The ward committee was asked to report all social service work back to the stake committee quarterly. At the close of the summer we have the following very interesting report, showing a development of one phase of the work. All ward associations in the stake were requested to make a survey of the number of children under six years of age and to hold free clinics for the same not later than May 30, for the purpose of determining if they were under-weight or over-weight; whether there were any eye, ear, nose or throat trouble, or any other trouble that a good nurse could determine. It was felt that inasmuch as all school children are more or less looked after by school nurses, that it would be more important to get the ones under this age. The response from all the organizations was more than gratifying. In most of the wards they obtained the services of the best doctors, who willingly gave their services free of charge. There were over 150 children who were given a very good general examination and each mother was provided with a score card, giving the exact condition of each child and what treatment was needed. Then the follow up work which most of the associations are doing consists of public lectures by these physicians, dealing specifically with the troubles they found. For instance, in Boise, Drs, Handy and Anderson lectured in the church well filled with the priesthood and Relief Society members on "Diet and Sanitation" and "Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat," giving very valuable instruction to those present. Then, Dr. Handy, was instrumental in getting the osteopaths of this city to help him in the treatment of three of the babies who will receive treatment from these doctors until they are permanently cured. The mothers were very pleased over the results of the examinations, some declaring that they received more information from the clinic than they had received. From examinations which had cost them ten dollars. These local officers are certainly to be congratulated for this splendid work. The Weiser Relief Society in addition to the above work, has held special lectures and demonstrations along various lines such as "Care and Feeding of Infants" and "Home Canning," given at the High School by the Domestic Science teacher; also demonstrations in hat-making. In this latter, two of the members who had taken the course are teaching the others. Every one of Speaking of the work done in Boise City by the ward association there, the local daily paper commented as follows: "A successful clinic for the purpose of examining all children, especially those under school age, who do not have the privilege of the regular school medical examination, was held Monday, At this clinic Dr. Handy and Dr. D. Anderson gave over fifty children a thorough medical examination, and a complete record of any defects or troubles made for future reference, As a follow connection with the examination, lectures will be given by prominent physicians so that Officers of the Boise Relief Society had the cooperation and support of the city, county and state health officers and also the State Anti-Tuberculosis Society, in connection with the clinic held in Boise. The importance of this kind attention the little folks are receiving widespread attention and it is understood that other churches and some of the clubs also are planning similar aid for children coming within their reach." All the societies of Boise Stake worked heroically for the Anti-tuberculosis and tobacco bills but were disappointed with what was made of it, which made it not nearly so good. Idaho succeeded in retaining its Anti-Tuberculosis Office, which the legislature was determined to do away with, but could not get the appropriation for the sanitariums fought so hard for.
Morgan Stake—Reorganized. On July 24, at the Stake Priesthood Meeting, the Morgan Stake Relief Society was reorganized, Mrs, Maryette R. Walk treasurer, At the first union meeting, held on August 28, there was a good attendance of stake and ward officers A general outline for carrying on Relief Society work was given as follows: Opening talks to carry on the discussion, by Mrs, May D. Purpose of testimony meetings, by Mrs, Sarah Giles, and Purpose and benefit of work meetings with definite recommendations of the kind of work to be taken up, by Mrs, Selma Francis, and: Duties and qualifications of teachers, by Mrs Mamie and, Relief Society aim by Mrs, Francis, second counselor Special drive to be instituted in the interest of better attendance Special incentive: A prize of six Relief Society song books offered to the society which secures the high Utah readers should be particularly interested in the first chapter which refers to a "boomtown" miner had drifted into the quiet early days, Pen picture of this old-timer is evidently accurate, and yet the writer has treated his material with no disrespect or sensationalism. We recommend it
World Happenings By James H. Anderson
Serbia and Albania opened a new war on September 26. Bosnia and Croatia began a movement for secession from Jugo-Slavia, in September. In the Prussian legislative assemblies at the present time there are 41 women and about 400 men. Earthquakes and floods in China, in September, claimed over 40,000 victims dead. In Italy, in September, warring factions caused the death of nearly 200 people. Earthquakes, continuing from September 29 to October 2, did considerable damage to property in Sevier county, Utah, but no lives were lost. Russia's famine area spreads as further facts became known, in September, and the most pitiful scenes are described by investigators there. Great Britain, as well as other nations, has troubles with unemployment, there being over 2,000,000 jobless men in the British Isles in September. Spanish troops in Morocco had several battles with the rebellious Moors, in September, in which the former had the advantage. Dr. S. Arai, head of the Japanese Soto sect, which has a membership of about 8,000,000 Soto Buddhists, visited Utah on September 17. In Texas, on September 9 and 10, over 200 people were drowned and $8,000,000 in property destroyed by floods caused by heavy rains. In India, the upheavals among the native population during September caused the British administration serious trouble. WORLD HAPPENINGS. 655 On September 30 there were in the United States 69 labor union strikes of considerable importance, and several more were added the following week.
Senator Smoot's tax bill in the United States Senate was introduced on September 30, and met with much favor because of its simplicity and directness; but that may not be what is wanted. Mexico agreed, in September, to restore about 100,000 acres of land in that country to "Mormon" settlers who had been compelled to move therefrom. At Oppau, in the Rhine section of Germany a dye works explosion, in September, caused the death of nearly 2,000 persons and the injury of many thousand others. The Scandinavians in Utah decided, on September 4, to erect a monument to the memory of the late President A. H. Lund, for his services to that people. Dr. Geley, of Paris, France, the distinguished psychical investigator, announced, on September 3, that he had definitely determined that human spirits have bodies. The labor-day speech of Samuel Gompers, head of the American Federation of labor, received prominent recognition as a bid for a soviet government in the United States. Mrs. Anna di Maio, of Torre del Greco, a suburb of Naples, Italy, is the mother of 10 children, born within 5 years; she has just turned 30 years of age. First, was 1 baby, then twins, triplets, and quadruplets, in order—all living. Greece and Turkey continued at war east of Constantinople during September, the military advantage being with the Turks, but the forces of the latter were being decimated by disease rather than by fighting. The Zionist 12th international conference met at Carlsbad, Jugo-Slavia, September 1 to 15, with over 600 delegates present, and dealt with measures for the upbuilding of the Jews in Palestine. Senator Knute Nelson, of Minnesota, uttered a significant warning in the United States Senate on October 1, when he chal- 656 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. lenged the railway unions who were threatening to strike to go ahead, and the "American people would wipe them off the earth," France was disturbed in September by fears that Russia and Germany will join hands to the great injury of the French. Because of this, France does not look with favor upon land disarmament. Elder George A. Smith was named in September as general superintendent of the Y. M. M. I. A. Organizations of the "Mormon" Church, to succeed Anthony W. Ivins, who has become one of the Church presidency. Meride Ferid Hanen, the beautiful wife of Ahmed Ferid Bey, in a public address in September, declared that, notwithstanding it had been abused greatly in Christendom, the Turkish harem had demonstrated clearly that home was the place best adapted to woman's nature, A railway merger, to put all the railway lines in the United States into 19 systems, has been recommended to the railway commission. This would seem to be a good scheme to tie up the transportation of the country in the event of strikes, G. C, Mazdon, a prominent merchant of Argentina, after a tour of the United States, declared, in September, that the "do as little as you can for your salary" sentiment in this country is due primarily to the excess of employment given to women. A considerable Socialist defection in New York occurred in September, by an influential section going over to the Third International, better known as "Reds," It is stated that 113,000 out of 118,000 Socialists thus transferred their allegiance, Episcopal ministers met in synod in Salt Lake City, Utah, during a week in September, and on the Sunday following visited many Latter-day Saint Sunday schools, to learn of the manner of conducting these and the methods of teachings the Sunday school children. See Isaiah 2. "Mormon" missionaries continue to be sent to Mexico to preach the gospel, and in September the Central American Federation adopted a provision for equal rights to all denominations there. This was opposed by the Catholics, who were outvoted, and Protestant evangelism will be extended. WORLD HAPPENINGS. 657 Big labor unions in the United States agreed, in September, to postpone strikes calls until the spring of 1922. Meantime, there is much talk of a revolutionary movement at that time to change the form of government in the United States. See Ether 8:21-26. New York Presbyterians are making an effort to have declared unconstitutional all statutes forbidding the use of the Bibles in the public schools. They have a good foundation in the fact that the Bible is unreplaceable as history, is freely supplied with literary masterpieces, and is unsurpassed for its moral gems. General J. J. Pershing, (who commanded the American armies in France during the war) rebuked Samuel Gompers (head of the American Federation of Labor) in remarks after the latter's speech at a meeting in Washington, D. C., at the Lafayette-Marne celebration, in September, the general closing his address thus: "It seems to be about time for us to rise up and say that America shall be governed by American citizens, and not by organizations which have their own selfish purposes to serve." Ireland and the British government spent all September parleying over the difficulties there. One of the most prominent Protestant ministers in Great Britain, Dr. R. J. Campbell, vicar of Christ Church, Westminster, London, made the significant public announcement on September 30, that the Sinn Fein of Ireland never could become friendly to England, giving as his reason that "Roman clerical influence is too strong, and that influence aims at destroying England as the greatest Protestant power in the world.".
EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS.... President MRS. LUCY JANE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISA YATES ROBINSON - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A, F. Lund Mrs. Susa Young Gates Mrs. Lelene Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia Childs Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosanna C, Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - Susa Young Gates Business Manager - - - - - - - - Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VIII. NOVEMBER, 1921. No. 11.
SPARKS STRUCK FROM THE CONFERENCE FIRES
DEBT President Heber J. Grant in his keynote speech at the recent conference dwelt powerfully upon three topics: Debt, the Word of Wisdom, and Home Products. He urged the men of this Church to get out of debt and to stay out of debt. Men and women sometimes run into debt for wise reasons, to buy necessary machinery, to improve farms or homes. But too often men run in debt to gratify women, and to hush the pleadings of extravagant daughters. Autos, with tons of gasoline for young people's gadding about, new furniture, pianos, phonographs, dresses, picture shows, canned foods instead of cooking, with the most expensive cuts of meats, freshest of eggs, fruits and vegetables out of season, parties and entertainments galore with expensive refreshments and extras, all these things make men depressed, discouraged, and fill the home with bills and debts that almost stagger the head of the household. What shall we women do about this matter of debt? Retrench in every conceivable direction, not with that niggardly retrenchment which refuses to buy when we have money, or to give work to our own brethren who are in need of work, but to cut off the useless expenditures which are not directly concerned with our own state and our own people and avoid spending when we are in debt. Then, to help in every way our husbands to get out of debt and to stay out of debt. Housework will not hurt us women, old or young, it is the most developing work except in unusual cases and circumstances, It is not beneath and farms, Above all things, keep a cheerful face, a bright smile and an encouraging word for our struggling husbands and fathers, which will in turn react upon ourselves with encouraging hold office in the auxiliary organizations should be exemplary
HOME INDUSTRY An old-time note was struck by the President when he mentioned that his shoes which were from the Zion Cooperative factory and added that he had worn no other make of shoes for eighteen years. (But they don't make women's shoes, I discover,) He urged the people everywhere to buy home products wherever possible, to debt in a group, passing through the hands of five men and reaching its final resting place in the pocket of the man who paid the first debt with it. What may women do in carrying out this counsel? Much, very much. We may always buy home-made soap, extracts, yeast powder, canned milk, vegetables, matches, Dixie molasses, home dried fruit, corn, etc., etc. 660 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. midst. A budget of household expenses is almost a necessity if we are to know where we are at from day to day. At least, let us build up every avenue of home industry and encourage the establishment of new home enterprises.
THE ARMAMENT CONFERENCE The most outstanding feature of the meeting was the resolution offered by President Grant to set apart a day of remembrance before the Lord for the coming Conference on Limitation of Armament. No one expects the Conference to be entirely successful in the matter of persuading men in every nation to lay down their arms all at once, yet some tremendously vital steps can be taken in this direction if the people and the people's God are with our leaders and Congress. It is pleasing to this Society to know that a resolution by Sister Annie Wells Cannon had already been introduced to the General Board and to our own conference on this subject before President Grant's resolution was proposed. Our resolution follows:
Whereas, On November 11—Armistice Day—the international conference for the reduction and restriction of arms will be held at Washington, D. C., and Whereas, The success of this conference will mean a step forward in the progress for universal peace; and Whereas, Its success would also mean a reduction in the taxes which now burden the people of the different nations almost beyond endurance; Be It Resolved, That the members of the National Woman's Relief Society, in conference assembled, do hereby declare themselves in favor of this movement for the reduction and restriction of arms in all nations, and (a) Pledge themselves willing to study as individuals the different problems which must come before the conference; (b) To urge as great publicity of the proceedings of the conference as is compatible with progress; (c) To use all possible influence towards creating a stronger sentiment in the hearts of women for such measures to be adopted as shall ultimately lead to a condition of peace and harmony and brotherly love throughout the world.
PRESIDENT GRANT'S TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS One of the most pleasing features of the conference, at least to the Relief Society sisters, was the lovely tribute to the life, character and labors of our late beloved President Emmeline B. Wells which was paid by the President of the Church on Sunday afternoon. Perhaps no more graceful or fervent public memorial words were ever offered to a woman amongst this people.
Guide Lessons for January
LESSON I Theology and Testimony First Week in January
FORE WORD This Course of lessons in religion is intended to increase in general the appreciation of the doctrines of the Church, and aid special emphasis will be placed upon the value of traditioning children, in harmony with the revealed Word of the Lord, in such a way that they may form habits of thought and action out of which shall come constant and progressive happiness to the extent that any departure from the course of life, set forth in gospel plan, will cause immediate discomfort to the extent that there will be a yearning for a return to the path of gospel rectitude, in case of wandering therefrom An attempt will be made to have each lesson aid the parent in presenting the matter no attempt will be made in any case to exhaust the subject nor to cover the field of references, it is a blessed privilege to be in correspondence with the Lord: it is a woeful condition not to be on speaking terms with him Prayerful carelessness, and willful neglect of prayer is proof of our ingratitude, Our prayers in prosperity are always teeming with love, those in adversity are usually tinctured with fear. Heavenly correspondence hereafter. The greatest messengers from on high were message-senders while on earth, Gabriel ( Noah); Michael 662 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. (Adam); Moroni, the Nephite prophet and historian; Elijah, prophet of ancient Israel, who restored important keys of the Kingdom in Kirtland Temple; John the Baptist; Peter, James and John, and Moses, all mighty messengers from heaven to earth, faithful in keeping up their correspondence with the Lord. Prayer is the best preventive and the surest cure for soul sickness. The Savior knew this when he said, "Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation." Among the products of prayer are spiritual growth, soul uplift, and a sense of security. These three keep us at a point where we may say with sincerity, "I know that my Redeemer lives." Prayer, started by duty, invariably ends in pleasure. The Lord is pleased with any duty approach towards him, and rewards the effort with joy.
PROMISES CONCERNING PRAYER Victory over Satan, Doc. And Cov. 10:5. Greater blessings than the treasures of earth. Doc. And Cov. 19:38. There are many other promises in the scripture made concerning prayer.
COMMANDMENTS CONCERNING PRAYER Pray in public and in secret, Doc. And Cov. 23:. Teach the children to pray, Doc. And Cov. 68:28. Neglect of prayers is to be reported to the bishop, Doc. And Cov. 68:33. Blessings come through song prayer, Doc. And Cov. 25:12. Pray in joy and pray in sorrow, Doc. And Cov. 36:28-29.
COMMANDMENTS FOSTERING PRAYER IN THE HOME Furnish prayer environment: Place in the dining room a picture of the toiler giving thanks for his loaf of bread and bowl of milk. Place in the parlor, if possible, a painting of the Sacred Grove or Joseph's First Prayer. Obtain "Sweet Hour of Prayer" for the Victrola, with reservations as to the doctrine of the last verse. All these things tend to create an atmosphere of devotion. Put the painting in good light and put the record on as a family reveille occasionally. Know that the children know the Lord's prayer, that the young folks know by heart, "I'll Serve the Lord While I am Young," "America," with emphasis on the last stanza, which will create an impulse to look up while rendering that part of the poem. "The Stars Spangled Banner," with such an appreciation of what the Lord has done in giving us our GUIDE LESSONS. 663 country that there will not only be an impulse to stand up, but to look upward, when the words "In God we trust" are sung. The hymn, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet," is a wonderful song prayer, the entire composition of which impresses devotion to the Lord, loyalty to the Church, and its leaders.:
SECRET PRAYER No set of good habits is complete without the habit of having secret prayer. To be alone with God means to be in the best company in the universe. Children should be so traditionated in secret prayer, that a feeling of discomfort will follow the neglect of this greatest of all spiritual duties, which is a primary source of spiritual joy and social safety. Failing or refusing to teach prayer is at least non-Christian. Jesus, the founder of Christianity, taught his disciples to pray, and his example and teachings in mortality are supplemented by his command through the Prophet Joseph Smith, Doc. And Cov. 68:28. That mother is praying for me is a beautiful and consoling thought, but of vastly more value is the experience of having mother pray with me.
CONSISTENCY IN PRAYER Children should be taught, and we all must learn, that while sincerity alone is not sufficient; consistency must be there. We must all learn to put into our prayers some of the resignation that characterized the prayer in Gethsemane. Prayers often contain requests as inconsistent as that of the lad who wanted Lincoln to stop the raft that he might get his apple that had dropped into the water. A super-abundance of selfishness makes prayers inconsistent. What could contain more forgetfulness of others than the following prayer? Now I lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord my soul to keep; If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. A valuable mobilization of I's and My's. There are times when self preservation, that first law of human nature, takes justifiable, impulsive control of everything; as in the case when Peter, sinking at sea, cried out, "Lord, save me." But the habitual morning or evening prayer can not consistently be void of interest in others. The most perfectly unselfish prayer ever uttered was, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." 664 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
PROPRIETY IN PRAYER Prayer should be suited in time and in content to the circumstances. Where the Spirit of the Lord presides and is permitted by the humility of man to direct, the consistency and propriety will be perfect, but it must be remembered that true humility does not consist in utter carelessness in relation to thought along the line of the eternal fitness of things. No prayer is too long if interest is sustained to the end, but the one who prays with others must bear in mind, that though chosen to lead he has no monopoly on the group interests, even if the time is all at his disposal. The longest prayer to which Scriptural reference is made extended through an entire day; it was a secret prayer. See Book of Mormon, Book of Enos. Propriety protests against long prayers, in the sick room, except on rare occasions. There are cases wherein much fasting and prayer are necessary to the overcoming of the power of the adversary, but certainly fasting could not be done in the presence of the afflicted, and the extended praying need not be done there. Authority and faith is what makes prayer powerful as a healing force.
READING REFERENCES References, Chapter 12. Gospel Doctrines, Joseph F. Smith. Vol, 22, Era, Keeping Up Correspondence With God, George H. Brimhall.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS Some things to think about and talk about.
1. Why does the Lord want us to pray?
2. What would be the effect if the privilege of prayer were taken away.
3. What happened to King Saul when the Lord refused to communicate with him?
4. In what respect is teaching children to pray complying with the request of the Savior, "Suffer little children to come unto me."
5. Wherein does neglect in teaching children to pray become a refusal to comply with this request of the Master?
6. Prayer is the simplest and surest way to form a loving acquaintance with the Lord.
7. Praying only when we are in distress is unmistakable evidence of both ingratitude and weakness.
8. Praying with our children will affect their salvation more than praying for them.
9. If parents neglect the Lord their children will neglect them.
10. Where was the first known prayer uttered? GUIDE LESSONS.. 665
11. What were the circumstances and what must have been the essential content of the petition? See Pearl of Great Price; Book of Mormon, Chapter 5. Would an occasional concert prayer be advantageous in the family circle?
LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in January)
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in January)
The literary lessons for the ensuing year will be a continuation of the lessons of the past year. They will differ in one particular. The lessons of the past year have been devoted entirely to a discussion of hymns written by Latter-day Saints. The work of the coming. Year will include a number of such hymns as: "I know that my Redeemer lives," and other well known hymns in the Christian world. As would naturally be expected Latter-day Saint hymnology is comparatively rich in hymns devoted to the life, work, and memory of the martyred prophet Joseph Smith. The most notable of this group are "The Seer," by John Taylor; "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," by W. W. Phelps, and "Joseph Smith's first prayer,' by George Manwaring. In the hymn, "The Seer," the author has become a veritable mouthpiece of the Latter-day Saints embodying the devotion, the love and admiration of the people for their prophet leader. In a certain sense he might be regarded as a poet laureate of his people, for his thoughts and feelings as directed to the prophet have in the past found echo and are still echoing and re-echoing in the souls of a multitude of people. The first stanza is devoted to Joseph Hhinaodll it tells us that his equal cannot be found among men; that he has soared to the realms of day; that he was the chosen 'of God, and the friend of man, who brought the Priesthood back again. 666 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The second stanza, while it carries in every word and in every line the spirit of admiration and devotion for the prophet Joseph, is, in the main, devoted to his mission; he came to bless the sons of earth with keys by the Almighty; and, to further employ the words of the hymn, he opened the full rich stores of heaven, "O'er the world that was wrapped in sable night." The third stanza, like the first and the second, is impregnated with love and devotion for the prophet, now no longer among them, but the real emphasis of the stanza is placed upon his love for the Saints, "His only pride!" "For them he lived for them he died, Their joys were his, their sorrows too, He loved the Saints he loved Nauvoo." The fourth and last stanza is devoted to the thought that he, the prophet, is free, beyond the reach of mobs and strife, where "He waits with. The just who have gone before, To welcome the Saints to Zion's shore." Whatever else may be praiseworthy in this hymn, no other interest exceeds the interest aroused by the emotional quality of the hymn. The third stanza is the most noteworthy in the hymn from the standpoint of style, such lines as "He opened the full rich stores of heaven, O'er the world that was wrapped in sable night, Like the sun he spreads his golden light." mark a decided heightening of style reaching into the realms of poetry. "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," is a thrilling hymn; like "The Seer," it contains many words and lines of admiration and love directed to the prophet; like "The Seer," it exults in the fact that he is beyond the power of his enemies, and that he has gone to that realm where, "Great is his glory and endless his Priesthood," and where, "Ever and ever the keys he will hold;" and where, "Faithful and true he will enter his kingdom crowned in. The midst of the Prophets of old."  "Joseph Smith's first prayer," written by George Manwaring, is a picture of that eventful morn, in the spring of 1820, when the Father and the Son appeared to the boy Prophet in the woods. The first stanza gives us the setting, a picture of the morn with nature at the height of its beauty, and in the midst of all GUIDE LESSONS., 667 this earthly loveliness kneels the boy prophet, who, lacking wisdom, is asking God for light. The second stanza tells us that as he knelt he was assailed by the powers of darkness, but his spirit was undaunted and he trusted in his heavenly Father's care. The third stanza makes record of the light descending brighter than the noon day sun, in which appeared two glorious beings, "God the Father and the Son." The fourth tells the story of the answer to the prayer, when the Father turning to the son said, "Joseph this is my beloved, hear him!" then come the lines that tell of the exaltation of the spirit of the youth, whose prayer has been answered: "Oh what rapture filled his bosom For he saw the living God." "We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet," does not refer to the Prophet Joseph Smith, specifically, it is a tribute to all who have led and still lead Israel, consequently we have included it in this lesson. It is one of the best known of our Latter-day Saint hymns, and must always give a particular thrill to a genuine Latter-day Saint. It was written by a young man born the same year that the Church was organized, in Sheffield, England. He was a workman in one of the famous cutlery manufacturing houses of his native city. After writing the hymn, he carried it to meeting, where it was sung by the people of the Sheffield branch. President Joseph F. Smith was present on the occasion, and recalled distinctly the first time that this hymn, that has so often voiced the gratitude of the people for a prophet-leader, was sung. This stanza is written in simple unadorned English. Its emotional content is that which gives it literary merit. The spirit of gratitude which should be the predominating emotion of all prayers, saturates every word and every line, making it one of the most acceptable song-prayers in the hymnology of the Latter-day Saints. "When dark clouds of trouble hang o'er us, And threaten our peace to destroy: There is hope smiling brightly before us, And we know that deliverance is nigh; We doubt not the Lord, nor his goodness,— We've proved him in days that are past; The wicked who fight against Zion, Will surely be smitten at last." 668 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The value of the second stanza is not in its emotional content, but rather in the great spiritual thought that it embodies. It is a message of trust and confidence. It tells us that thing, which has so often been proved by those who live the spiritual life, that they who truly rely on the Lord have no need to fear. It is the same thought that is found in that great hymn, sung by all Christians, "How firm a foundation," the fourth stanza of which reads: "When through the deep waters I call thee to go, The rivers of sorrow shall not thee o'erflow, For I will be with thee, thy troubles to bless, And sanctify to thee thy deepest distress." The third and last stanza reads: "We'll sing of his goodness and mercy, We'll praise-him by day and by night, Rejoice in his glorious gospel, And bask in its life-giving light: Thus on to eternal perfection, The honest and faithful will go, While they who reject this glad message, Shall never such happiness know." The first four lines of this last stanza is a song of praise to the Lord for his goodness and mercy; the second four contemplate the great culmination of it all. The goal is perfection. "Thus on to eternal perfection," an expression which may be interpreted as meaning, thus on to eternal progression, the honest and faithful will go, while those who reject the gospel message can never attain to this perfection. This hymn is not a literary gem in any sense; there are no lines that are of the essence of poetry, nevertheless it is one of the most popular hymns of Latter-day Saints, and justly so. It is just because it has probed the heart, appreciating something of the debt of gratitude that surges through the souls of men and women as the realization grips them, that they indeed have a mouthpiece of God on earth. It is just because it is one of the great song prayers of Latter-day Saint hymnology; it is just because it contains a tremendous spiritual truth, which, coupled with a reverent emotion, justification enough for a song or sermon, QUESTIONS 1. Who wrote the words and music of "The Seer." (This means the music most commonly sung.) Have the words read to the class. 2. Who wrote the words and music to "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah?" Have the words read to the class, 3. Who wrote the words and music to "Joseph Smith's first prayer." GUIDE LESSONS. 669 Have the words read to the class. 4, Indicate particular words and sentences expressive of love and admiration for Joseph the prophet found in "The Seer." 5. Indicate words and sentences expressive of admiration and love for Joseph the Seer found in "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 6. Compile from both hymns the sentences that speak of his present state and exaltation. 7. Who wrote the words of "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet?" Who wrote the music which the Latter-day Saints usually sing it to? 8. State three reasons why you personally are grateful for a prophet to lead us in these latter days. 0. Do the prayers of those who surround the family altar usually contain a passage of thanks to God for a prophet? Do the prayers offered in public assembly usually contain a passage of thanks to God for a prophet? 10. What is the "eternal perfection" the Latter-day Saint feels he may attain through the help of God? LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in January) FOREWORD Relief Society workers are interested in promoting the welfare of God's children in every possible way, physically, morally and spiritually. We are anxious to do our work thoroughly, and 'at the same time economically. Experience has taught us' that we can do our work most thoroughly and economically through the home. The home, more than any other institution, touches the individual on every hand. It provides him during the greater part of his life, with food, clothing, shelter, as well as directs him intellectually, morally and spiritually. The slightest change in home conditions affects the life of every member of the family for good or ill. In fact, we are more sensitive to conditions of the home than to any other relation of life. It is because of its significance to human welfare that our organization has always given the home considerable attention, and it is for this reason that we shall consider, in the few lessons that follow, some of the factors which tend to promote or hinder its welfare. The question of method of study has considerable to do with the efficiency of our work. We must begin at the right place and follow in proper sequence. We have been dealing quite extensively with the conditions of poverty and sickness, and the consequences of unfortunate and improper home relations and, in so doing, we have become fully aware of the fact that many of 670. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. These conditions have grown out of ignorance, lack of education, or improper education, concerning the meaning and seriousness of home responsibilities. In the lessons in this department we hope to emphasize the educational end of the home problem for, as mothers, we feel that we can, and should, through the organization, play a real part in the education of our sons and daughters, in the meaning and sacredness of the home, As mothers, we are more than relief workers, we are teachers in the truest and greatest meaning of the term. We want not only to remove suffering and give immediate relief to those in distress, but in order that we may avoid the very conditions which lead to sorrow, we want to remove ignorance, inefficiency, and vice, and to enlighten youth and promote wholesome social and moral relations all along the line from childhood to parenthood. We are well aware of the fact that many broken homes are the results of improper conduct prior to marriage, and in turn that the failure of parenthood comes as a consequence of poor adjustment between husband and wife. We believe, therefore, that the natural and most successful method will be, first, to study the social life of youth in so far as it bears upon their physical, moral, and educational preparation for home life. In the second place, we shall study the husband and wife relationship in its psychological, moral and social aspects. And, thirdly, we stall take up the parent and child relationship. In all these relationships we shall endeavor to make use of the simple yet fundamental principles developed in psychology, sociology, and ethics, to the end of more effectively establishing, fostering, and protecting the greatest social institution, the home. THE HOME.—RESPONSIBILITY IN THE HOME RESPONSIBILITY AND CITIZENSHIP A country such as our own has, along with many good things, some problems which must be solved. A society which gives freedom and equality to its members must make certain demands of them. Every individual must carry some responsibility. The ordinary citizen must sense a responsibility for the welfare of the community. As a voter he gives direction to our great political and social affairs and must, therefore, be trained in the meaning and importance of such responsibility. Many of our citizens, however, do not sense fully this responsibility. Some of them ate so indifferent that they do not even avail themselves of the opportunity to vote. Others are willing to vote, but with the dropping of the ballot on election day they feel their responsibility ends. Some of our citizens use the privilege which the country confers upon them, to promote their selfish interests at the GUIDE LESSONS. 671 expense of the public. There are others still who have a positive contempt for our institutions and who are doing all in their power to defeat the very purpose of law and government. These notions are not in harmony with the ideals of our country. Individuals who hold such notions have been improperly educated. The homes in which they were reared have not done their full duty. RESPONSIBILITY MUST BEGIN IN THE HOME By American institutions we mean more than a system of government, and laws, a constitution, we mean also a system of ideas, sentiments and habits. True citizenship in America is more than a gift, it is an attainment. It is a way of living; here in our every day life is found the essence of democracy. Our great social structure will succeed or fail, stand or fall depending upon our ability as parents and teachers to develop in the youth proper standards of citizenship. The home is our basic institution and upon it rests our greatest educational responsibility. It is the human nursery. If our citizens are to possess the attributes which qualify them for responsibilities in a democratic society suitable seeds must be planted very early in their lives. Habits, ideals and sentiments are not directly given to the individual; they grow very slowly. They need a whole lifetime to mature. THE IDEAL HOME The ideal home is careful about two conditions: giving too much liberty to children, on the one hand, and depriving them of necessary freedom for self-expression, on the other. It feels obligated to instill in the lives of youth proper respect for law and authority but it also recognizes the duty of developing in them the power of self control, and the ability to use liberty wisely. Serious consequences follow the neglect of either of these two obligations. Real freedom is not a life independent of law, but one in harmony with it. The laws of God and the laws of the state are for the good of men. Until men recognize this fact freedom is for them an empty term. Some young people, and older people also, frequently disregard authority and break away from the control of law, believing that by so doing they are enjoying freedom. Little do they realize that they are actually depriving themselves of the essential conditions of freedom. They are throwing themselves into the hands of untrustworthy authority and are becoming the slaves of a lower type of control, native instincts, foolish whims and ignorance. No one can run away from law; if he refuses to obey human laws and God's laws, he is sure to suffer 672 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The punishment which nature's law inflict. Thousands of young people have come to grief, many homes have been wrecked because of a false conception of freedom. But on the other hand our ideal citizenship does not grow in an autocratic home. The ideal home must recognize individual rights, it must place responsibility upon individuals and consequently must confer freedom in proportion to the responsibility imposed. We need homes that have faith in the integrity of children. We need homes that recognize abilities in children and are willing to place responsibilities upon them according to their physical, mental and moral maturity. We need homes, that can utilize, not only the powers and intelligence of father and mother, but of son and daughter, brother and sister, from the youngest to the oldest member of the family. Homes that can thus distribute responsibilities, and utilize the many kinds and degrees of abilities, are the homes out of which develops the true type of American citizenship, the ideal Church member, the good Latter-day Saint. THE HOME IS MORE THAN A MEANS; IT IS AN END IN LIFE But in our emphasis upon the home as a nursery for citizenship we must not forget that the home is more than a means through which we prepare the individual for other relations of life; it is an end in itself. We have as much right to expect the other institutions in the community, the schools and the Church, to educate the individual for efficiency in the home as to expect the home to furnish the community with good citizenship. The failure to recognize this fact is responsible to a large extent for the present neglect on the part of the community to educate young people for home responsibilities. It is in the home where we spend the greater part of our lives. It is here we share one another's joys and sorrows. As individuals we completely identify ourselves with the home. The mistake of one member of the family is directly felt by all the other members. In the life of normal men and women the home is the institution to which they will consecrate their greatest efforts. They are willing to sacrifice for it, struggle to maintain it, fight to preserve it, and, if need be, die to protect it. Nothing can take its place. All the comfort, all the joy, all the love, that is deemed worth while in the world they expect will come to them through the home. The home is a means to life, but it is more than that; it is man's most natural and real life. QUESTIONS 1, What conditions do you observe about you which tend to show that all people do not appreciate the blessings of a free country? Show that America is more than a form of government. GUIDE LESSONS. 673 What can the home do to educate for responsible citizenship? 4, How early in life can a child be taught to carry responsibilities in the home? 5. If a child has not been taught to carry responsibilities in the home, can we expect him to become a responsible citizen? Explain. 6. Give an example from your own experience to show the value of persons being required to carry responsibilities early in life. Can the principle of giving responsibility be overdone? 8. Besides the home what other institutions have we, the function of which is to train children for citizenship? 9. Describe an ideal home, from the standpoint of developing responsible citizens. 10. Which statement do you prefer and why? (1) The home should train the child to become a useful citizen in the community. Or (2) The ty should educate the child to become efficient in living a home life. GUIDE LESSONS Teachers' Topic for January (Optional ) Note.—Teachers' topics will be published in the Guide Department of the Magazine for each month of 1922. It is optional with the stakes whether or not these topics are used. The Significance of the New Year a. The time for making good resolutions, following the customs of the most ancient peoples. B. "Build not upon regret for the past, but build upon resolve for the future." c. Resolve to read the Scriptures regularly, and try to adapt them to daily life. D. Study "the Sermon on the Mount" for January. (Matthew 5.) SERVICE PRESS Better Printers of Better Printing Phone Was. 4044. 228 West Broadway. Salt Lake City To the Relief Society Magazine SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for Your Expiration! Are You a Subscriber to the Relief Society Magazine? If not you are missing an opportunity to keep in touch with Relief Society work; and also the opportunity to help solve your Relief Society and home problems. Send your subscription to Relief Society Magazine 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid ver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "J am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We. Are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City Let Dickinson's serve you Choice Meats Fancy Groceries. QUALITY. DEPENDABILITY CLEANLINESS. ACCURACY. We guarantee everything we sell. 680 East 2nd. South Street. Hyland 60. W. R. McDONALD, Pres. D. H. CANNON, Mgr. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Phones Was. 2328-2329 Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Western Scout SHOES A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language—a language understood by everybody. Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"—the kind they make at Phone Was. 286 6 Main St., Sak Lake Lumiere Studio Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month for the Past Ten Months One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have you seen it? Dependable The Deseret Hews Progressive The Utah State National Bank The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them. Officers Heser J. Grant, President. Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President. Chas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Alvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following BOUND VOLUMES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of which they will be glad to dispose at the prices quoted below: 12 Vols. Of 1915, Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1918, Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols of 1919, Cloth Bound 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919, Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920, Cloth Bound 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920, Leather B'd 3.00 I5c Extra for Postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Bound volumes of the Magazine make appropriate gifts - Kely DELIVERED EVERYWHERE P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Keeley’s Ice Ceram For the “Good old Summer time” DELIVERED EVERYWHERE P.O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Phone Was. 3223 DELIVERED EVERYWHERE P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City A Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service M. TAYLOR & COMPANY  successors to Joseph E. Taylor Funeral Directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860. PHONE WASATCH 912. An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the properties of funeral service. 251-257 East First South Street. Was. 912 S. M. TAYLOR, President Was. 912 A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas.. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Salt Lake City, UTAH ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy. VOLUME VIII DECEMBER, 1921 NUMBER 12 L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS The Sign of Quality Temple Brand GARMENTS The Sign of Comfort If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. Style Price 1 Special Summer weight $1.25 24 Unbranded special, light wt. 1.25 15 Bleached spring needle gauze 1.75 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached... 2.25 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached. 2.00 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached 2.50 . 90 Cotton, heavy wt. Unbleached 2.50 50 Lisle, gauze wt., bleached... 2.65 107 Merino wool, medium wt..... 3.75 109 Merino wool, heavy weight... 4.25 65 Mercerized, It. Wt., bleached 3.75  305 Australian wool, It. Wt........ 6.00 1922 Pure Glove Silk..................12.00 We make BATHING SUITS. Ask for what you want—we will fit you. Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 Main St  Salt Lake City We make BATHING SUITS. Ask for what you want—we will fit you. Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 Main St. Salt Lake City BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices Call at our Burial Clothes Department 22 Bishop's Building Prompt attention given all out of town orders TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 For Christmas The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop. $100.00  For this Beauty Take 15 Months to Pay Daynes Beebe Music Co 61-3-5 Main St OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH JOREDY S DAYNES F PRESIDENT '_ €APITALSZ50,000.00 Have you a ring or pin with the Birthstone for December? If not, write or call on W. M. McCONAHAY The Reliable Jeweler 64 So. Main St. Phone W. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah Latter-Day Saints Garments APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. 104 Light Summer Weight (Bleached).........$1.25 111 Light weight, cotton................ 1.50 120 Light weight, bleached.......... 1.65 160 Medium weight, cotton........ 1.75 122 Medium weight, bleached... 190 Heavy weight, cotton............ 2.50 124 Heavy weight, bleach 150 Extra white Mercs 116 Heavy wool, mixed 4.00 2.00 118 Extra heavy wool.................. 5.00 MODEL KNITTING WORKS No. 657 Iverson St. Salt Lake City, Utah Choose the Books Your Children Read Good juvenile books are as fundamental to the right mental growth of boys and girls as is good food to their physical up-building. Surround them with cheerful and wholesome volumes and help them acquire the reading habit. We have specialists who will gladly aid you in the selection of good books for children. And we do have the books! Either call in person or write for free illustrated juvenile catalogs. Deseret Book Company 44 E. So. Temple The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS DECEMBER, 1921 General Conference of Relief Society.............Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary 677 Out of the World.............G. Milton Babcock 709 World Happenings.................. James H. Anderson 716 Editorial: The Year's Old Age....719 Guide Lessons for February............ 722 Life's Mirror, Words by Madeline Bridges, Music by Edna HE. Coray....730 The Character Builder for 1922 In 1922 The Character Builder will enter upon its 21st year under the present editorial and business management. Its articles on CHILD WELFARE, VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE AND HUMAN CONSERVATION in 1922 will be the best that have ever been published. Every Latter-day Saint should read them. Every home needs The Character Builder; it has now been published in Salt Lake City for twenty years. It is only $1 a year. Send $1 for 1922 to Dr. John T. Miller, editor, 625 South Hope St., Los Angeles, California. (If you will send $2.50 for Dr. Miller's new book on HUMAN CONSERVATION before Jan. 1, 1922, the Character Builder will be sent you a year free.) A LITTLE CHILD AT THE CHRISTMAS TIDE L. Lula Greene Richards. "And Jesus called a little child unto him, and set him in the mi! St of them, and said, Verily I say unto you, except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the Kingdom of heaven." —Matt. 18:3-4. Father, thou who rulest all, Hear, I pray, my fervent call! If I have, by act or word, Any soul's resentment stirred— Given small or grave offense,. Let me make full recompense, With a spirit kind and mild, Humble as a little child. Where my own heart has been pained. Let forgiveness be maintained— Loving charity be shown As a mantle 'round me thrown. In thy kingdom, pure and free, Let me serve and rest with thee, Grateful, helpful, undefiled— Trusting as a little child. Let dear Christmas bring to earth Joy anew for Jesus' birth— And the New Year, void of strife, Wake to higher, nobler life Childhood fair, and age and youth, For his reign of peace and truth. Father, show me thou hast smiled On me as thy little child. L. Lula Greene Richards. THE GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CHOIR THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. VII DECEMBER, 1921 No. 12 General Conference of Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society, held October 4 and 5, was unusually well attended, and the interest was keen throughout. There was the usual spirit of love and good fellowship, which was auspicious and inspiring. The weather was ideal, which added greatly to the comfort of a fall conference. The conference opened with the business session, held in the Bishop's Building, the morning session for general and stake officers, and the afternoon session for general and stake officers and ward presidents. At the general session held for Relief Society workers generally, and the public, the Salt Lake Assembly Hall was taxed to the limit to accommodate the large numbers of interested listeners, and many stood in the aisles and at the back of the hall throughout the afternoon meeting. At the general officers' meeting, seventy-two stakes out of eighty-five were represented, thirteen only being not represented. The representation and attendance was as follows: General Board members, 18; mission presidents, 5, representing the Mexican and California missions and the Central, Northern, and Western states missions; stake presidents, 53; stake counselors, 73; secretaries and secretary-treasurers, 33; treasurers, 10; choristers, 5; organists, 4; class supervisors, 15; additional stake board members, 156; visitors, 86; total 458. In addition to this number of general and stake officers, there were in attendance at the afternoon general officers' meeting, 90 ward presidents. Between the two sessions for officers, on Tuesday, a cafeteria luncheon was served by the General Board, and on Tuesday night a musicale and reception were given at the McCune mansion for all of the officers in attendance. The music for the conference was in charge of the General Chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, who was sym- 678 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pathetically assisted by Miss Edna Coray, General Organist. The numbers were all greatly enjoyed, and especially those by the Relief Society Choir. An interesting feature was the singing of "Come, come, ye saints," by the entire audience at the afternoon general session. Because of the fact that this hymn has been studied and dramatized throughout the Relief Society, and is therefore thoroughly familiar to all, its rendition by the large audience was impressive and inspiring. A striking feature of the conference was the decision of the women assembled to establish, at the Brigham Young University, a Memorial Loan Fund, for girls, in honor of the late President Emmeline B. Wells. Another interesting matter, aside from the regular program, was the adoption of the resolution in favor of the limitation of armaments. Copies of the resolution were later sent to the National Council of Women. President Clarissa S. Williams, in her own dignified and gracious manner, presided at each of the sessions of the conference. She was faithfully supported by her two charming and devoted counselors, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight and Mrs. Louise Y. Robison.
GENERAL OFFICERS' MEETING. MORNING SESSION.
The first meeting of the conference was opened by the favorite hymn, "Our mountain home so dear," followed with prayer by Mrs. Florence Knight, president of the Relief Societies of the Western States mission. President Clarissa S. Williams, in opening the conference, asked for the love and confidence and prayers of the women of the Relief Society, in behalf of the General Board, in order that the Board may carry forward the great and mighty work which has been assigned to it. President Williams expressed the prayer that love and hope, harmony and good feeling may ever be in the General Board, that the members may love and respect one another, and may feel that the work of the Lord is greater than any personal ambition, that the Board may be united as a group of workers, sustaining one another, and enjoying the confidence and the love of one another, and of all Relief Society women. Her prayer was also that, in the stakes of Zion, love and harmony may be maintained and that all the members of the Relief Society may feel to sustain their local, stake and general officers, and give the best that is in them for the great cause. The work which has been done by the stakes and wards, CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 679 during these last six months, has been a very wonderful work, and extremely satisfactory to the General Board. The members of the Board who have visited the stakes, report that Relief Society women everywhere are being regarded as powers in the local communities, as it is proper they should be; that they are endeavoring to raise community standards by setting up high ideals and by giving intelligent and faithful service. Relief Society women are the mothers of the community, and through their faith and works, and their desire to do right, and to live uprightly before their heavenly Father, they will be blessed with his Holy Spirit to assist them in going forward with the work to which they have been assigned. President Williams spoke favorably of the auxiliary group conventions which are held in most of the stakes, and which in her estimation are preferable to the one-day auxiliary conferences. She hoped that some day these will be held in all the stakes. In these conventions, Relief Society women are benefited not only by their own general representatives, but by the representatives of the other auxiliaries who are also in attendance, and the association together in general sessions of all of the auxiliary groups is improving and beneficial. The speaker expressed pleasure in seeing so many officers present, mentioning especially the mission presidents. To all of them she extended love and greetings, and asked for divine guidance throughout the conference.; At this point, President Williams announced the death today of President Orville S. Thompson, of Millard stake, and said that a telegram had been sent to Sister Thompson in behalf of the General Assembly. The subject "Stake Conferences" was discussed by Mrs. Nellie P. Head, president of the Oneida Stake Relief Society, and Mrs. Ida Treseder, president of the Ogden Stake Relief Society.
MRS. NELLIE P. HEAD.
To me the preparation and the conducting of a stake conference, or group convention, is a very important matter. When the program outlines reach us from the general board, we meet immediately in a stake board meeting and very carefully go over every detail and discuss every point. We believe in early preparation and in the division of responsibility. A certain responsibility is placed upon each of the presidency; for example, one may be asked to be responsible for the general arrangement, another for the music, another 680 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for flowers. Committees from the stake board are also appointed, and given certain definite work to do. If there are any failures, the responsibility of the failures is placed where it belongs. In our preparation we live over the whole conference and try to prepare ourselves for any emergency which might occur. In addition to our general arrangement, we make it a point to prepare for, and to have, good order throughout our meeting. It is understood by our women that they come into a meeting, not to visit and talk, but to receive instructions and enjoy the Spirit of the Lord. We try to be so orderly that it is not necessary for our meetings to be called to order. In our general preparation for our conference, we also include spiritual preparation. Our officers and board members pray earnestly for help and guidance and for the Spirit of the Lord to be present. For the last two years the Oneida stake has held a group convention, and we like this arrangement much better than the old arrangement for a one-day Relief Society conference.
MRS. IDA M. TRESEDER.
In the Ogden stake we still hold stake conferences, one in May and another in November. The first step in arranging for a stake conference is to call a meeting of the stake board, several weeks before the conference, to formulate plans; for, in stake conferences as in everything else, the greater the preparation, the greater the success. At this first meeting we name our committees and outline our work. We also appoint members of the board to certain specified tasks, one to look after the house—the heating and ventilating, and another distribution of song books, etc., etc. We ask one of the wards to look after the ushers, and another the decorations, and to another we assign the entire musical program. The regular program is always arranged and assigned early, in order to give those who take part plenty of time for preparation. The program is also carefully timed, so that there is plenty of time for the general board visitor. All meetings begin promptly and close promptly on time.. Just preceding the first meeting, a short prayer meeting is held, after which the stake board members meet and shake hands with the people as they enter the building. During the noon hour we serve luncheon to the people which is furnished by the stake board and prepared and served by one of the wards. We consider this a pleasant and beneficial feature of our conference, where general and stake board members, ward officers and members all come in personal contact with one another. The visitors from the General Board are met at the CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 681 station, usually by the high councilman who very kindly offers to do this service. Mrs. Bessie G. Hale, president of the Boise stake, and Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, president of the Salt Lake stake,. Addressed the officers on the subject of "The Class Leader."
MRS. BESSIE G. HALE.
One of the most important officers of a Relief Society organization, in my opinion, is the class leader, for by her the class will either succeed or fail. Of first importance, therefore, to the organization in this connection is the selection of the most competent woman available for this position. Competency in class leaders calls for certain qualifications, takes on certain responsibilities, and entails certain duties which should be kept in mind by those making the selection; and, while all of these qualities may not be found in the most qualified person available, in certain of our societies, yet by having these requisites before us, we can be guided in the selection of the person who must nearly meet the requirements, namely: First, She should be a thorough Latter-day Saint, with a testimony of the divine mission and teachings of the Church. She should also be loyal to its principles and to its leaders. Second, She should be clean in her individual life, and her conduct should be reputable, for what she does and what she is will always speak louder than what she says. Third, She should be dependable for were she to possess all other qualities to an admirable degree and yet be untrustworthy, she will fail. Dependability means promptness and constancy. Fourth, She should be prepared. She should possess a thorough knowledge of that which she is expected to teach, and should have a clear understanding of the message which is to be conveyed. Fifth, She should have a love for the work, for it is a work not only of the brain but of the heart as well. Her soul should be put into her task, which implies interest and sincerity of purpose. Sixth, She should understand the elements of successful class teaching, and thereby be able to employ all the principles and agencies at her command to make the lesson carry over to all the members of the class, and awaken in them a response. I have given these six principal requirements in their relative importance to my mind. I have, therefore, purposely listed the knowledge of the way to teach as sixth, not that I would minimize its importance, but simply place a knowledge and testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and the fundamentals of true character, ahead of the knowledge of pedagogy. At the same time I would strongly emphasize the 682 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE importance to the class leader of having a knowledge of the scientific principles of teaching, for certainly a thing can be more easily and successfully done by knowing how to do it than by not knowing how. Every class leader should become acquainted with the individual members of her class and seek to understand their several needs, and should secure a responsive co-operation in the discussion of the lesson. A class room may be compared with the business counter where goods are bought and sold. In the class room, knowledge is imparted and ideas are exchanged. At the business counter, the success of the business is attained only when proper value is given in the transaction, and when the dealer has a fresh stock of trade. His customers are not interested when he offers them stale goods. In the class room, success is attained only when both the class leader and members feel that they are receiving proper recompense for their time and effort. Stale ideas are like stale vegetables; they have little market value. When the teacher's mind is sparkling with truths and she presents them in an attractive manner her class work reaches a point where all are benefited.
MRS. NETTIE D. BRADFORD.
I have enjoyed very much Sister Hale's remarks concerning the class leader, and I feel that if there is anything absolutely necessary in the class leader, it is the Spirit of the Lord to guide and direct her in that which she attempts to teach. She must humble herself in prayer that the Lord may bring from her those things which she has studied and prepared to give to her class. She must also believe in that which she teaches. We are told that the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life. She must be in accord with the Spirit of the Lord and believe, with her whole heart and soul, that which she is teaching, no matter whether it is theology, literature, or the social service lessons; she must be in submission to the promptings of the Holy Spirit to bring out the desired points. A. We can see that the duty of the class leader is very great in preparing her work, in having a fund of knowledge behind all that she says, that can be drawn from, so that her class may feel that she is thoroughly prepared, up, awake and alive to her subject, that they can come to her for help and ask any question desired and get an answer. She should never answer a question unless she is thoroughly familiar with it, but should ask that the question be laid on the table until the next preparation meeting. I feel that it is absolutely necessary that we have thorough preparation. We have a plan CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 683. worked out in the Salt Lake stake which could not be carried out in the scattered stakes as it is here. We have class leaders for each subject, in each ward, and we have a stake supervisor with two assistants who supervise the work of each department. They hold preparation meetings monthly. We used to meet in union meeting and separate into departments, but we feel that we do not have time enough, so our stake class leaders or supervisors asked for a day when they can call their class leaders or supervisors together and have plenty of time to discuss their lessons. One is appointed to prepare the lesson and give it before the class. After the lesson has been given there is a discussion held and questions asked and answered, and we feel that every class leader is fully prepared to go before the Relief Society and present these lessons in a pleasing and satisfactory manner. I feel that we have received great benefit through this plan. As stake officers we are thus enabled to come into close contact with every class leader in every department in each of our wards. The "Stake Board Meeting" was discussed by Mrs. Amanda N. Bagley, of Cottonwood stake, and Mrs. Laura J. Adamson, of Blaine stake.
MRS. AMANDA N. BAGLEY.
I do not believe any of you have to be converted to the benefits derived from holding stake board meetings. We hold our board meetings once a month, but where it is possible, I would prefer to hold them at least twice a month, because' we cannot do all of the business we wish during that one meeting. We hold a conference every three months, and separate into classes, and here we have been able to plan our work, and because of this we have not felt it necessary to hold board meetings oftener. First, in our board meetings, we unite in prayer. I do not think anything else unites so closely as gathering in prayer. I love to read and think of the signing of the Declaration of Independence. That body of men had been working for weeks and months, and it seemed as if they were not going to be able to accomplish the things they set out to do. Some of the members felt that some of the things should be retained and others felt that the same things should be striken out. Finally, Benjamin Franklin arose and said, "I am a strong believer in the overruling power of an all-wise Providence; let us kneel in prayer." When they arose there was no doubt, no feeling of envy, no feeling of selfishness, and in less than two weeks that document was ready for signatures. We have been organized for nearly seven years and there 684 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE has never been a word of unpleasantness passed between any of us, there has never been any discord. I do not believe there has been an unkind thought between any of our board members. After prayer we have roll call, and after the roll call, we transact our business. Next we receive the reports from all of the board members who have visited the wards, and it is surprising the different ways in which we size up a situation; we find that we can't judge an organization fairly by one person's opinion. While one of the board members will see a strong point, probably another visitor will see a weak point. It seems to me it gives us a better opportunity to judge what condition the wards are in by reports from the various officers. If there is any time left we ask for suggestions as to what can be done to benefit the whole stake. After this we have lesson work, which has been carefully prepared. In the meeting there is no whispering, no conversation.
MRS. LAURA J. ADAMSON.
In one of our board meetings, President Hale once told us that efficiency means three things: to know our work, to know how to do it, and then to do it. In our board meetings we. Come together to learn our work, to learn how to do it, and go forth from there to do it. I have often been interested in standing down on South Temple and watching the News run through the press, and the thought has come to me that back of that finished product there is a working force, a brain power, that is directing that work—that finished product. In our stake board I think our stake work is likened to that power. In our board meetings the force is generated that carries the work on to the wards. I have been visiting the hospital very often lately. I have been interested to see the precision there, and the splendid management. The thought has again come to me that back of that there is a power that I do not understand or even come in contact with, and again it has come to me that in our work our stake board might be likened to that force. I believe the success of stake board meetings depends upon every member of the stake board. I believe that in our stake the success of our board meetings has been through our executive meetings. We have held this year an executive meeting one week and board meeting the following week. The problems that we wish brought up in meeting. I jot down in my notebook the topics we wish discussed, which helps greatly to economize time, and adds to the success of the meeting. I believe the presiding officer should know every detail of the work that is to be taken up in that meeting. She CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 685 should not depend entirely upon her secretary. It should be noted down, and she would know which are the most important and least important of the topics for that day, and economize her time accordingly. I believe the board members should do their visiting after the meeting is out and not during the meeting. The order of our meeting is very much like that of the sister who spoke before me. We have our prayer, roll, and minutes, and then the correspondence from our General Board and from our wards is taken up. After the correspondence has been dispensed with, we have reports from our sisters who have visited wards. After this we have the head of each department report. We have our board organized as follows: president and teachers: secretaries and treasurers department; enlistment committee, temple and burial clothes, music committee, Magazine, and work day activities. Any new business that we wish to take up, such as planning for conferences, or whatever new business we have, is then discussed. We have always done this in our board, so that each member might be informed as to the work of every committee, and give the head of each department a day to present their work to the board. We go over that and discuss it so that each board member is familiar with the work. 'We have a set time for our meetings. I believe that the success of a board meeting depends as much upon the board members as upon the presidency. The members should come with something to contribute to the meeting. We have found that it is helpful to preview or assign the work. To announce the work to be considered at the next meeting, and to impress the members with the thought that they are expected to come with something to contribute, has helped us. We economize our time by staying with one subject. When one subject is brought up we stay with that subject until it is finished, which is conducive to business like methods. In small boards such as ours it is hard to make the meeting formal, but I imagine where you have large boards it is best to follow as far as possible, parliamentary rules. Board members should keep sacred the things taken up in their meetings and keep counsel. As far as I have been able to watch progress in our board, we have developed leadership by placing absolute responsibility upon the heads of the departments. When questions arise in the ward that pertain to a department, they are referred to this department. This develops initiative and leadership. Sometimes in our executive meetings problems have seemed almost unsolvable but we have been cleared in our stake board meetings with thoughts from various members. The psychology of group work has been wonderful. All minds are put in unison by prayer and when they are all in tune inspiration comes that helps solve our problems. 686 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, of the general presidency, explained briefly the method pursued by the general board in doing its work, which was followed by reports on the Relief Society Magazine, by Mrs. Susa Young Gates, editor, who read answers to questionaires sent out by the Magazine; Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde, business manager, spoke of the splendid support the Magazine has received from the loyal Relief Society workers, and of the desire of the Magazine to give good service. The establishment of a memorial loan fund, in honor of the late Emmeline B. Wells, was brought up for consideration before Relief Society stake presidents in the Relief Society semi-annual conference in the Bishop's Building, by Clarissa S. Williams. In recognition of long years of work in the interest of the Relief Society, of which she was for many years president, and of her untiring efforts, in the interest of uplift and education of women, a resolution of the general board for the establishment of a fund was unanimously adopted by the stake presidents, and a copy of it was read with the following letter to the Brigham Young University, to which institution the fund will be given: "Desiring to honor and perpetuate the memory of their late beloved president, Dr. Emmeline B. Wells, who was a faithful and devoted Relief Society worker, and for many years the general president of the organization, and who was an earnest advocate of the education and development of women, the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints wishes to establish at the Brigham Young University, from the General Treasury, a loan fund for girls, to be known as the Emmeline B. Wells Relief Society Memorial Loan Fund. "The Relief Society wishes, as a beginning of this fund, to give five hundred dollars ($500) with the idea that as time goes on the fund may be added to. The society desires to have this fund used for loans to worthy women of the upper college classes who need and deserve financial help in order to complete a college course; also, that the fund be lent and managed in accordance with the best business principles and at the current rate of interest. The interest, it is thought, will help to insure prompt payment and to increase the fund. "While the Relief Society makes these suggestions, the actual details of the handling of this fund are hereby left to those who handle the finances of the Brigham Young University." The letter was signed by Clarissa S. Williams, Jennie B. Knight, and Louise Y. Robison, general presidency. Counselor Louise Y. Robison reported the Burial Clothes Department in good condition, and invited the visitors to call and inspect the clothing. She said the workers would be on hand to give help or advice, and that if any of the stakes contemplate CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 687 putting in departments, the general department would be pleased to give any advice or instruction needed. Counselor Jennie B. Knight announced and recommended the following courses in nursing: one year Relief Society nurses' aids course given at the L. D. S. Hospital, where ten nurses are needed each August and ten each February; the three-year regular course at the L. D. S. And Dee Hospitals, and the three-year course given at, the Salt Lake County Hospital. She spoke of the splendid training offered in these institutions, and urged Relief Society women to make an effort to get young women in the various communities interested. Further information on nurse training may be had by writing the office. © The secretary reported the following reorganizations since April Conference: San Luis Stake, April, 1921—-Mrs. Johanna M. Harrison, resigned; Mrs. Martha Haskell, appointed. Morgan Stake, July 24—Mrs. Maryette R. Waldron, resigned, Mrs. Mary Chadwick, appointed. Burley Stake, August 28—Mrs. Lucenia Smith, resigned; Mrs. Margaret Cutler, appointed. Cassia Stake, August, 1921—Mrs. Jubeltine I. Jack, resigned; Mrs. Effie H. Walker, appointed. Benson Stake, September 25, 1921—Mrs. LaPriel G. Hyer, resigned; Mrs. Mary M. Funk, appointed. Beaver Stake, April 17, 1921—-Mrs. Cedaressa C. Shepherd, resigned; Mrs. Susan J. Murdock, appointed. Twin Falls Stake, May, 1921—-Mrs. Ann Roberts, resigned; Mrs. Kate Kirkham, appointed. California Mission, May, 1921—Mrs. Louissa W. Jones, resigned; Mrs. Margaret K. Miller, appointed. Eastern States Mission, Sept. 1, 1921—-Miss Edna Hardy, resigned; Miss Mabel Holmgren, appointed. European Mission—Mrs. Lucy Woodruff Smith, resigned; Mary Wells Whitney, appointed. Hawaiian Mission—Ellen C. Cole, resigned; May Smith, appointed. Organizations: Australian Mission, May, 1921—Miss Edith Ellsea, appointed. A The course of study for 1922 was also announced: Theology, Religion in the Home; Literature, L. D. S. Hymns; Social Service, Home Making. After singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning," the benediction was pronounced by Mrs. Margaret W. Manning. 688 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
AFTERNOON SESSION
The afternoon session was opened with congregational singing, and prayer by Mrs. Emily W. Smith, President of the Northern States mission.
SOCIAL PROBLEMS.
Professor John C. Swenson (B. Y. U.)
I am glad to note that there is a greater tendency nowadays to use the term "family welfare work" rather than the term "helping the poor." I like it much better, and so do those who are receiving assistance. I want to emphasize the social aspect or the social consequence of this individual work. I think as a rule we have passed by more or less unconscious of the social consequence of the work that we do. It, in a way, is like dropping a stone into a lake of water, and the waves keep on going until they strike the shore, and so our acts are a good deal more significant than we are aware of. This is the particular aspect that I wish to discuss, the social consequence or the social aspect of our welfare work. In looking over history we find there has always been charity and almsgiving, and accordingly it became one of the tenants of the Christian church. Among the monasteries they maintained a system of almsgiving which was carried on as a religious duty, but they did not have very much regard for the consequences that resulted from this almsgiving, and in the course of time there grew up around all the monasteries a group of people who became dependent and helpless because they had been robbed of their individuality, and could not take care of themselves. The monks had the best of intentions. They thought they were doing God's service in this work of caring for the poor, but they had really been doing a great deal more harm than good. They did not take into account the social consequences until it became so burdensome to Europe that in the eighteenth century there was a great reaction among the scientists, saying that this tendency to give had gone to such an extent that it had destroyed the capacity of these people to take care of themselves, and a great many of the degenerates of Europe were of that type. We are all aware of the fact that there is that possibility and we must have the consciousness in our mind for the effect or the possible effect. Now, I would not have you think that I am overdoing this thing. Welfare work is a problem balanced between sympathy and common sense. We must not blunt our sympathies. Sympathy is one of the necessary things in human life, one of the healing things, one of the curative things, one of the absolutely necessary things, but if we have an excess of sympathy without a corresponding sense of responsibility, there is likely to be decay rather than growth and we are responsible for that, We have got to come to the point of view where we are concerned not only with our motive (which may be the best) but we must be concerned with Another question that is of great consequence because of the difficulty: of it, because of the subtlety of it, is what we call mental health, I think you sisters in welfare work have come up against 690 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE different point of view, and sometimes that is a difficult problem. I think it is a disease that might afflict anybody at times, I think there is no attitude that is so wholesome and encouraging as the tendency to come up smiling even if we feel that we have been unfairly and unjustly treated, to face the light and not the shadow. We ought to help those who are weak into a new feeling, and if we can-do that we have done a good work. Then there are doing the constructive thing, as living the positive and not the negative life. If there is the possibility in any family of removing this tendency towards 'self-pity or towards the dark aspect of necessary thing to do. Let me emphasize in this work of relief, or in this work of welfare, perhaps not the mere fact of giving, perhaps not the mere fact of supplying the physical needs of the family, although the October number of the Relief Society Magazine. The point was emphasized that the authority and government of the Church CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 691 is vested in the Priesthood; that the auxiliary organizations of the Church are organizations which have been formed by the First Presidency as helps or aids to the Priesthood, and whatever authority they have comes from the Priesthood. Excerpts were read from the Doctrine and Covenants and from the Bishop's circular, on the office and duty of the bishop, and attention was called to the fact that the bishop is the father of the ward, and is responsible for all of the work of the ward, including the care of the poor, the widow and the orphan. Attention was called to the fact that of the auxiliary organizations of the Church, the Relief Society is the oldest, and its duties are fairly definitely defined. The scope and function of the Relief Society was well defined and established, both by the original statement of its purpose and its long practice in line therewith. The declaration of President Joseph Smith at the time of its organization provides a great, comprehensive constitution for the Society. He said in substance that it should "provoke the brethren to good works, look after the needs of the poor, perform charitable acts, and assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community." After the society was organized the prophet said, "What I do hereafter for charity, I shall do through this society." If the Relief Society is to be the chief aid to the Bishopric, in family welfare work, as is stated in the circular, it would seem to be the duty and the responsibility of the organization to prepare its workers to give the best possible service to the bishops; in other words to prepare them to be ideal servants to the bishop. In order to do this it will be necessary for Relief Society workers to study and to work and to pray. In some wards the priesthood may ask a good deal of the Relief Society. In others wards, the Relief Society may not be asked to do so much, but it is hoped that whatever Relief Society women may be asked to do, whether it be much or little, that they do it well and intelligently. The circular suggests that the bishopric should invite the Relief Society officers to meet with them monthly, or oftener if necessary, to consider general relief work, and to discuss plans for looking after the poor, the sick, and those in distress. If carried out, this will result in close cooperation and mutual understanding. Some courses and institutes have been held in the past where family welfare work has been studied. No effort has been made in these classes and no instruction given that would interfere in any way with the general Church plan as outlined in the Doctrine and Covenants and also in the original meeting of the Relief Society, but the students in these classes have been trying to learn the best methods, and doing individual tasks. Each paragraph in the circular was read and explained and ~ 692 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The Relief Society «Visiting Teacher" formed the topic for both special and general discussion. The discussion was led by Mrs. Inez K. Allen, president of Utah stake, Mrs. Georgina Marriott, President of North Weber stake, and Mrs. Ovena Ockey; president Emigration ward, after which informal comments were made from the floor. There seemed to be a general desire that teachers' conversation topics, to be used on the monthly visits, be arranged by the General Board and printed either in the Relief Society Magazine, or teachers' books. It was found that some stakes are not using topics, that others prefer to arrange their own topics. It was finally decided that teachers topics will be prepared by the General Board and published in the Magazine, but that it will be optional with the stakes whether or not they use these topics.
MRS. INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN.
Mrs. Allen emphasized the point that the responsibility of the Relief Society is to safeguard the women of Zion against the spirit of darkness and evil which may come over them, and that teachers pushed. Would they have that spirit of fear if they sensed the experience. Nearly all of our Relief Society women are educated; they have a rich experience to draw from. If they are
MRS. GEORGINA MARRIOTT
Mrs. Marriott felt that teaching is the most important prop in the Relief Society work. Until the teachers of a district can feel that the families in their district belong to their flock, we into the homes to visit, that she might be a uplift and help to that home that is uplifted mentally, morally or spiritually, the teachers, welcomes these visitors MRS. OVENA OCKEY.
Mrs. Ockey said that teachers should be chosen for faithfulness, spirituality, and intellectual qualities, and should be chosen with consideration for their companionableness. Disagreeable features of teaching are: Prejudice among people who do not understand the purpose and the mission of the teachers, and object to explanation. The prejudice can readily be overcome by using tact and kindness. Some people call the Relief Society teachers beggars, and do not open their doors to them. The pleasant features are: Joy of visiting good families and forming everlasting friendships; joy of carrying the spirit of Relief Society work and explaining the wonderful field of Relief Society work given to women by the Prophet Joseph Smith; striving to be what we are trying to teach others to become; and lastly, the wonderful joy of CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 693 tions are called for for a family, nobody should know who the family is except the president. The workers should do the work required without question as to who the donations are for. Above all, confidence should be kept.
MRS. OVENA OCKEY.
Mrs. Ockey said that teachers should be chosen for faithfulness, spirituality, and intellectual qualities, and should be chosen with consideration for their companionableness. Disagreeable features of teaching are: Prejudice among people who do not understand the purpose and the mission of the teachers, and object to explanation. The prejudice can readily be overcome by using tact and kindness. Some people call the Relief Society teachers beggars, and do not open their doors to them. The pleasant features are: Joy of visiting good families and forming everlasting friendships; joy of carrying the spirit of Relief Society work and explaining the wonderful field of Relief Society work given to women by the Prophet Joseph Smith; striving to be what we are trying to teach others to become; and lastly, the wonderful joy of service, to know that we have helped someone in need. What is greater than to give one's self? "Even as ye have done it unto the least of one of these, ye have done it unto me." Teachers are the backbone of the organization. Many cases of want, spiritual and physical, would not be discovered were it not for the teachers. There would be a smaller membership and the Relief Society work would be far less known if it were not for the teachers. Every teacher should have a burning testimony of the gospel. Teachers should be prompt, and should visit oftener than once a month if necessary. Teachers should never repeat gossip, and never speak publicly of any family's need. A teacher cannot give to others what she does not possess. President Clarissa S. Williams announced to the stake officers the desire of the General Board to inaugurate a movement throughout the Church in the interest of maternity and motherhood, and that the subject had been presented to the Presiding Bishopric, and by the Bishopric to the First Presidency, with the result that both the Presiding Bishopric and the First Presidency heartily approve the plan. The expense connected with childbirth these days is so great that many young couples are compelled to begin the rearing of families by going into debt, and it is the idea of this plan to encourage motherhood and to make it possible for women in child-birth to have good care at reasonable rates. The present idea is to establish a maternity home in Salt Lake as a sort of experiment, and later, if this is successful, to extend the work by establishing similar homes in various centers. The plan, although premature and indefinite at present, also con- 694 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE templates some form of maternity nursing service for the rural communities. The financing of the proposition was discussed but nothing definite decided upon. The stake presidents heartily favored a movement in this interest and recounted the great needs in the various communities for just such help as this would supply. They were asked to think the matter over and were told that definite information and instruction would be sent out as soon as a definite recommendation can be decided upon, with regard to the proposition and its financing. President Williams reported that the Relief Society Home has been closed, and the building turned over to the Primary Association to be used in connection with the convalescent home for children. The home for girls at the Bee-Hive House meets the needs for which the Relief Society Home was originally established, in a larger and better way because of better facilities, and there seemed to be no further need for the latter. The Relief Society Home, which was established December 19, 1913, has been successfully managed and supervised by the competent counselor in charge, with Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley as chairman. It has been entirely self-supporting from the beginning, and has never been the slightest expense to the General Board, nor the Relief Society generally. Much credit is due Mrs. Nibley for her work in connection with the home. After singing "Doxology" the benediction was pronounced by Mrs. Julia Miller, President of Yellowstone stake Relief Society. MORNING SESSION. PRESIDENT CLARISSA §&. WILLIAMS. My dear sisters It is very difficult for me to appear before you this morning in a speaking capacity, and I pray sincerely that you will give me your faith and prayers that IT may have the Spirit of my heavenly Father to help me, that what I may say may be of benefit to you and may in a way be satisfactory to me. I believe that if a speaker does not satisfy herself it is quite impossible to satisfy those before whom she appears, and I do pray for your faith and prayers. Since our last conference, the changes which were inaugurated by the Presidency of the Church, through President Heber J. Grant, have been carried out and the Relief Society General Board has been reorganized and we have been working slowly to get ourselves into condition to carry on the great work to which we have been appointed. Our beloved leader, Sister Emmeline B. Wells, has been called home to her Father in heaven, and to those of her dear ones who have preceded her. No words of ours can add to the glory of her work, because she was a woman full of the Spirit CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 695 of the Lord, with a desire to do good, and with the talent to do things that would advance humanity in the world. We love, honor, and respect her memory, as we loved, honored, and respected her during her. Life. Perhaps the change in the General Board thas been the hardest because my association with the women who were released from active duty on the Board began when the majority of them were women nearly old enough to be my mother, and I grew up under their teachings and their training and their beautiful spirit of love and of desire to do good and to further the interests of the Relief Society throughout the world. There are some of them with us this morning, and we heartily appreciate their presence here. Last conference, when President Grant said to them that their place should always be on the stand, we felt that we would appreciate their presence here with us because while they are not actively working with us now, their love and their sympathy and their prayers must be with the Relief Society, which they have helped to build up, which they have given the best effort of their lives to forward, and that interest surely cannot be snapped off because of active work being relinquished, and we want to say to you all, and to them especially, that we love and respect them, and we desire to maintain the feelings of love and harmony which have always existed between us. And we would appreciate it if they would attend all the meetings as they always have done and appear here because you know then: and you love them. You have to get acquainted with us, we are new to you, you must find out our good qualities and the qualifications that will endear us to you as they have endeared themselves to you. Now, our humble prayer of the Relief Society General Board is that our heavenly Father 'will bless us every one, that we may have his Spirit to lead and direct us and to help us to do the things which are right and proper for us to do. I greet you this morning, my dear sister workers, in behalf of the General Board of the Relief Society. It is a pleasure to us to meet face to face and converse, in a way, with al! Of the splendid women who are giving the best of their lives to the forwarding of this great work of the Relief Society. It is not necessary to recount its organization, its purposes, its aims, because they have been the same from the beginning, from the time that the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired to organize the women of the Church together. We have looked forward to the same goal, our vision has always been in the future, our purpose has been to do the things which would be for the best good of humanity, not for ourselves alone, but for the communities in which we live, whether they be of us or not of us, because as we can all bear testimony, there are many honest in heart who 696 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE are pleased With the Work we are doing, and who are glad to know of our aims and purposes in the world. Our conduct has always demonstrated the broadness of our aims and our desires, and we wish to continue that, we wish to feel that every blessing which was pronounced upon the Relief Society in the beginning is continued and in richer abundance; that as time goes on, and we see the needs of humanity at large, our hearts will swell, and we will be given the inspiration to do the things which shall build up those about us. The gospel is a work of love and harmony and unity. It draws us together. No strife should enter into the deliberations of the women of the Relief Society, but love should unite them. The spirit of trust in each other and of devotion to the priesthood of the Church, and of prayerful and loving tenderness towards our allwise heavenly Father should prevail. We have been given such blessings as have never been given to women in any other age, and we should in every way endeavor to live up to them. Some one has said that there is so much bad in the best of us and so much good in the worst of us, that it little becomes any of us to speak ill of the rest of us. And let this be our motto, sisters. Believe in your hearts and work to it as you would work to a religion, that kind words are more easily said, kind words are more easily done, than other words and deeds, and let it be our religion to be peace makers. I think nothing greater could be said of any woman than that she is a peace maker. We all know that little misunderstandings arise among the dearest of friends, and let us not harbor in our communities, in our organizations, any i ll feelings that would tend to diminish the beauty and the blessings of the Spirit of the Lord. I would like to say to the splendid women of the stakes, who are devoting their time and energy to the building up of their communities, that we appreciate their labors, that we love them, and we pray for them. We do not need to ask if they enjoy the confidence and the love and support of those in their communities, because we know that you are giving it to them. And then, to that band of valiant women, the ward presidents, counselors, and officers, whose duty calls them forth by day and by night to perform their mission! we love and respect them and pray for them. And then there comes the faithful teachers, thousands and thousands of them in the Church. Relief Society teaching began in the city of Nauvoo with sixteen teachers, four for each of the four wards. At first they did not know just what to call these workers, but their duties were defined as the duties of the teacher of today are defined, and finally that name was decided upon, that they should be called teachers. CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 697 Now, when we stop to think that the Relief Society has grown from nineteen members to 48,204, that the teachers have grown from sixteen to 15,222, and that the activities have greatly increased, we can realize that there has been growth and progress. It seems to me if we could see in review a pageant of the many thousands of women who have been drawn into the organization, the enthusiasm, and the spirit and the love which unite the women who are doing the work, it would be a wonderful, wonderful picture to us. It seems to me it would be a very poor organization that could not improve, and in the organization and the duties which were given to the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, great latitude was given for the advancement of the work and for the betterment of conditions surrounding the organization, and I am happy to say, MY dear sisters, that advancement has been made and is being made all the time, that the blessings which were pronounced upon the organization by the Prophet Joseph Smith and which have been continuously pronounced on the organization by the other presidents of the Church, are being fulfilled. Our way is being opened and we are grasping the situations which surround us and we are endeavoring with all our might, with the help of our heavenly Father and the support of these noble men of the priesthood who are standing by us, to assist us in our work, to look forward and to go forward, advancing step by step, until when the great day of judgment comes our prayer will be that we will receive the plaudit, "Well done good and faithful daughters of the Relief Society. You have been faithful over a few things, I will now make you masters * over many." Mrs. Lalene H. Hart expressed her appreciation of the Emmeline B. Wells' Memorial fund for college women, because it would give many girls the opportunity to train for the great task of reclaiming the 'American home which is in a precarious condition during the reconstruction period. She urged mothers to feel their responsibility in the great work before them and to realize that through united work in the Relief Society, 2 great deal could be accomplished. "Every 'Mormon' woman should radiate happiness; it should be her duty to spread joy," was the message of Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter in a short talk, "For happiness reflects the gospel of Jesus Christ." She said there is beauty in everything and the woman should endeavor to see it and should know the genuine workers must know that better service lies in assisting People to help themselves, Sympathetic, intelligent counsel is often the he system of education made Possible through the Church Organization, in that it reaches each individual of the Church and helps him to develop, is the greatest thing about the Church, said Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. She outlined three basic principles of the Church, concrete realization of dependence upon God, public servants, but mothers and homemakers as well, rejoiced in her message to the we are a peculiar people." She cited the Word of Wisdom, the observance of the Sabbath day, the paying of tithes and temple work, as a few of the many distinguishing CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY ~~ 699 the Relief Society, saying that they will not need to neglect their families in order to attend to the duties. She said there is no organization in the world so adapted to help others, and it offers great happiness to those who would know its service. Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine who was scheduled to take part on the program was unable to do so on account of illness.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
THE HOME.
Dr. E. E. Erickson (U. Of U.).
The home problem is both sacred and important, because civilization depends upon it. A state may sacrifice its political institutions, it may sacrifice its religious organization, it may sacrifice its economic institutions, and still retain the essence of civilization, but no nation can afford to sacrifice its home relationship. If it does, it is sure to decay, and many nations that undertook to sacrifice the family life, decayed and dwindled, and other nations, maintaining high standards of home, arose to ascendancy. I have another reason for 'being convinced that the home institution is the most basic institution and that is its influence on my own life. While I appreciate the community, while 1 appreciate the influence of religious organizations, and the schools, yet the one institution that has influenced my life most profoundly has been the home—my father and mother, my brothers and sisters, those individuals with: whom I associated, hours and hours every day, and who met me in all the various relationships, and always had sympathy with me and who never gave me up—that relationship was worth more than all other influences. I feel also that now as a husband and father, that the greatest responsibility that is placed upon me is in the home and with the children God has sent to us. It may seem that I am exaggerating when I say that I believe it is within my power and the power of my companion to cause those children to grow up immoral and become public charges. It is within our power, too, to permit them to grow up to be mediocre individuals, just to breathe and occupy space, and I have the feeling, too, that it is within our power to inspire them to greatness, to make of them good members in our Church, and efficient workers, to make of them good citizens in the state. I have that faith, and I believe that of all of the responsibility that I am carrying in this world, whether professional, religious, or of what nature, that my greatest task in life is to rear those children aright. I am going to look upon the family relationship as a great stream—a stream that has an origin, and that has a course of direction, a stream that may be pure or impure, a stream that 700 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE we are all concerned with, some as individuals, others in organization form. Some are attempting to direct the stream aright, others are working along the line on the stream to keep it in its boundaries, and to prevent its being contaminated from the banks; others are working a little further down, others are working with the pure water, others are attempting to remove the filth and contamination in the stream, but we are all engaged in that stream, because it is the important stream of life. The Relief Society organization, as it has functioned in the past, seems to have been removing the impurities from the stream in the form of poverty, in the form of sickness, and it has in that function performed a wonderful work. Other organizations in the Church have been dealing with the pure water, and have not come in contact so much with the poverty, sickness and disease. From my way of looking at the situation, it seems to me that there is a tendency now for this great organization, which has been dealing with the impurities to a large extent, with the cases of great poverty or disease and suffering, to feel that it perhaps could better control these problems if it could deal more with the stream of life at the beginning of the great stream. In other words, if it could get up at the source and in some way manipulate the cause of the contamination, so that it could assist in preventing some of the impurities from getting into the stream of family life. One of the problems at the source of the stream is that situation that we call courtship. It seems to be boxed in, that is, you are not permitted to deal with it. I do not know why it was boxed in, unless there was a fear of contamination. Now, if there is any danger of contaminating the source of the stream, we should not leave it alone, but should take hold of it in the proper spirit. There are sentiments and prejudices around that particular phase of the problem, so that most of us prefer to leave it alone, and it is a phase that we laugh about and cry about, but not very often do we think about it to the extent that it gets into our organizations so that it can be talked about and dealt with effectively. I believe one way of avoiding immorality, broken homes, poverty, disease, is to prevent the causes of this at the source of the stream. Some wholesome relationships are extensive and sympathetic friendship among young people. I contend that we have as yet done very little by way of extending acquaintanceship among youth, that we have left them to run their own course and seek out their own companions, and our organizations have done very little. I think good wholesome companionship, lots of good friends, is a splendid source of protection, and it is a duty we owe to young people. You cannot expect a young woman to make a good selection of companion if she has only three or CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 701 four from whom to choose, and these men are not men who measure up to her ideals, morally, spiritually, physically, or in any other way. A source of pure happiness is love based upon instinct and admiration. Love that lasts is a love that is based upon admiration as well as instinct, because young people show quality, character and ability, and we should make sure that these traits receive their proper places in the community. We do not want our young people to fall in love with an automobile or with a curly lock or a chew of gum. We want them to fall in love with character, with persons, and we want personality to stand out first of all. There should be education in the sacredness of courtship and marriage. Some of the elements of impurity are undue familiarity among very young adolescent boys and girls, caressing, and embracing and kissing, flirtation, improper and immodest dancing and dress. We must do more than merely point out the problems, we must point out some method of dealing effectively with them. One method is simple enlightenment—giving out information upon these subjects, both positive and negative. There is another problem that has been talked about very much, and that is the husband and wife relationship. People say it is a private matter, that it does not concern anyone else in the world, but it is fundamental, it is the main current of the stream, and unless that relationship is ideal, or approaches the ideal, we cannot expect the relationship between parent and child to be ideal. These are some of the desirable relationships: a growing love, mutual understanding, self-sacrifice, earnest effort at mutual adjustment, and it is necessary to have adjustment always. Human beings are all different and it requires a great deal of adjustment in living such an intimate relationship as husband and wife are expected to live. Other desirable relationships are companionship and the development of the sense of home responsibility. Marriage has great fundamental purposes. Happiness is one—I do not discredit that because I believe a really happy family is a successful family, but it has other motives, such as bringing children into the world, perpetuating the race and rearing citizens for the community, the Church, and the Nation. These are fundamental purposes and no husband and wife can live long together without realizing these great purposes. Undesirable elements in family life are: no effort for adjustment, deceitfulness, laziness, no permanent home, no children, and no common interest. These are the elements that are negative, that deserve careful thought, and I believe they can be handled by effort. I believe we have come to a period in our lives when we can make this world better. 702 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT.
I hope that never in the years to come will I forget the debt of gratitude that I owe to those dear sisters who have struggled on and made this great Relief Society what it is. It was my pleasure when a girl to go into the temple and one of the most impressive sights there was Sister Bathsheba Smith, and it seemed to me that she was the most queenly woman that I have ever seen. I have had in my home, Sister Zina D. Young, and it was under her ministration and the inspiration of my heavenly Father that I first heard the gift of tongues or the interpretation of them. I have also had the pleasure of visiting on different occasions, though not so intimately, with our late president, and I hope that I may emulate the good example that they have all set, for they have always stood before us as worthy women in Zion. I feel much more a part of this great Relief Society work than I did six months ago, because in connection with some of our associates it has been my pleasure to visit you in your stakes in conventions and conferences and to partake of your kind hospitality. I have noted the efficiency with which you have managed your homes and the wonderful success you have had in conducting the conventions, the anxiety which you have felt as officers to perform your duties, to have your associations measure up with the best associations in the Church, and I feel that this experience has been a great blessing to me. It has enriched my life. I think there is one thing in which we could improve; let us pay more attention to reading the Scriptures, and I would like to urge upon you to do as the Savior said, "Search the Scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and'they are they which testify of me."" We have many great books. One writer has said that in the best books great men (and I would like to add, women) talk to us, they give us their most precious thoughts and pour their souls into ours. They are the voices of the distant and the dead and make us heirs to the spiritual life of past ages. One of the greatest legacies that has come to us is the Bible; this morning, when Sister Williams mentioned Abraham Lincoln, and his motto to his people, I thought of what he said of the Bible. The little edition that inspired his soul as he sat in the log cabin in Kentucky, in early days, was a cheap edition, brought from England by an act of the American Congress in 1777. On one occasion he said, "I am profitably engaged in reading the Bible; take all you can of this book on reason, and the rest of it take with a faith in God, and if you will do this you will live and die a better man." The Bible is one of the greatest books that God has given to man. We love and believe in it, but we are blessed with another Scripture that gives us the his- CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 703 tory of the spiritual life of past ages and that is our wonderful Book of Mormon; in the last chapter you are promised that if you will read it with full intent believing in Jesus Christ, you will know by the spirit of the Holy Ghost whether the contents in its pages are true or not. I remember at one conference, our beloved President Joseph F. Smith said to the young people, "If you will read the Church works, and read the Scriptures, you will have no time to waste in card playing." I have often thought of that splendid instruction. Parents should study the Scriptures and Church literature and give their children the privilege of so doing. Church periodicals are published for our benefit. The Juvenile Instructor, the Children's Friend, the Young Woman's Journal, the Improvement Era, and best of all the Relief Society Magazine are filled with pearls of great price that will be of everlasting benefit to us. I know of one family of boys and girls who are prominent in the life of the community where they live, and I have heard them bear their testimony that the happiest time of their life was when evening came and their mother gathered them around her knee and read to them stories that touched their hearts and instilled in them an ambition to be great and good and kind to all with whom they came in contact. Another picture comes to my mind of the father who took the baby on his knee and read to the mother while she was doing the mending. He read from Scott and others, and I have had the pleasure of going into the homes of some of his children, and they all have small but choice libraries of good books. They belong to the class of young people who are progressive and active and who will uplift the community. We are told that the glory of God is intelligence, that no man can be saved in ignorance. There is just one little passage that I would like to read from the Doctrine and Covenants. It says, "The glory of God is intelligence. Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek by study but also by faith." In the 130th section the Lord says, "Whatever principles of intelligence we attain to in this life, will rise with us in the resurrection, and if a person gain more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come."
COUNSELOR LOUISA Y. ROBISON.
We all look very sober, and I have been thinking of a little verse which says, it takes sixty-three muscles to produce a frown and fifteen a smile; why not conserve energy? I am sure a great many of you have had the same experience I have had in hearing missionaries return and report their work, and in always saying how they love their missionary companion and that those companions were different all the rest 704 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of their lives from other people. I have seen strong, brave men who had been separated awhile, after they had been in the mission field, and their love at meeting was something beautiful; they would embrace and could hardly be separated from each other, and I have often wondered how such a thing could be, but I have found the secret of it in Relief Society work. In the smaller community where I worked in Relief Society work first, I thought my love of the sisters was due to the fact that I was closely associated with them, and could see their lovely virtues, but when I worked in the stake capacity my love was just as great, or greater. When I was called to work in a larger field, I felt that I was not capable of loving more dearly or loving more people than I had loved in my dear stake, but now as I have gone among the stakes and have had the privilege of meeting the sisters in their homes and stakes, I believe now I know what the missionary means when he tells you he loves his missionary companions, and I have been thinking if this Relief Society love could extend all over the world, the Millennium would be here quickly. There was a little motto that hung in my home when I was a girl. It read, "Welcome the tasks that make you go beyond your ordinary self, if you would grow." If we consider this, it is quite a sermon. Many of our beautiful girls marry and think they are faithful when they give their all in the home with their little people. They are so anxious to be good mothers, so anxious to be good wives, that they feel that they have not time for anything outside. They feel that life is long and after the children are grown and after they get through with their busy work, they will take up some outside work. It is too bad the young mothers do not know that it is during the time when they are rearing these children that they need the broadening things of outside work and of the Spirit of the Lord that is obtained in mingling with one another. A woman cannot live entirely by herself, and that includes her children and her husband; to be broad and successful, one writer has said, the only safe way is to have a straight path open from your soul into the great out-doors. If we do this, if we can have some avenue of communication with people outside, we will be broadened and better and can keep abreast of our children, so that we can avoid that unfortunate condition that sometimes comes to the mother of middle age, when the children say, "mother wouldn't understand." It is a very unfortunate thing to occur, and it happens because of the beautiful unselfishness that is unwisely given by the young mothers by their devotion to their children and homes. There is not a place on earth where mothers can take their children where they will be so welcome and have so much of the blessing and welcome of the sisters as in the Relief Society. I think there is no place where expectant mothers are all grown up now, and they are lovely and sweet. She could find time to go and take care of her babies as well, In the splendid class of nurses that graduated the first of August there was one sister from Mexico, a brave little woman, who left her children and came up here and gave a year of good, conscientious work and study and now she has gone back, a blessing. Survey taken among the sisters of the stake and it was found that ninety-eight per cent of the stake and ward officers are keeping the Word of Wisdom. In one stake they realize the importance spent with the sick, amounting to 56,908, or 155 years given to the sick last year by busy home makers, and I do not believe any of them neglected their families to give this service, 706 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in being here than I am, as this is the first conference that I have attended in our Latter-day Saint community during the past two and one-half years. I have been in England for some time past, and had a very great deal of pleasure in laboring with our sisters there in many of the communities of continental Europe. Upon our arrival in Liverpool, the headquarters of the mission, we found twice as many people as live in the state of Utah. The peace pact had just been signed, and we, of course, felt that peace and love were coming to all the earth, but, to our very great surprise, sorrow, and disappointment, we found this not to be the case. First of all we found that American citizens were not very welcome in Great Britain. We found this condition also in the communities on the continent. Food almost doubled in price after our arrival in Great Britain. We were furnished food cards, and only in February of this year were we allowed to purchase the amount of food we desired, if we had the money to pay for it. We are so much better off than the people of Continental Europe that there is no comparison. You have heard of the terrible labor troubles in that country, which are far in excess of the labor difficulties here, particularly the coal strikes, which mean that the railroads, the mills, which are the backbone of that country, are obliged to stand still. A little over a year ago we had a coal strike and a most terrible riot in different parts of England where great mills and other property were destroyed. Last spring we had another terrible coal strike, commencing very early in the spring and lasting until within two weeks of the time we left England, the middle of July. Thousands and thousands of families were not able to cook food in their homes on account of lack of fuel. We have had to have fuel cards the same as food cards, but, through the mercy of God, at our mission headquarters, we have never wanted for fuel. When we arrived in Great Britain we found that our missionary corps had been very greatly depleted during the war, and many Saints had immigrated to Utah, so it was quite a task to hold the work together. We found we had seven missionaries to assist us where at one time there were three hundred men, and you can imagine what it meant to keep things going. A few of our conferences had to be disorganized and also many branches; and, of course, our Relief Society organizations and other auxiliaries had to suffer in the same manner. Until one year ago we had no relief from this condition. At this time Brother Smith was laboring with the government for permission for our people to come in and preach the gospel. On many occasions the officials of the government would say, "Why do you come? We do not need you here; we cannot get our people to go into the churches here." People seem to have really deserted the Lord. You find churches CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 707 of all denominations almost empty. The people have no faith nor confidence in any one. After many interviews with the officials they finally gave Brother Smith an opportunity to explain the work, and now the elders are permitted to come with the restriction that we should: not cause riots, and that missionaries should not receive pay; the reason for this is because there are so many men in Great Britain who have no employment. Two million men are now walking the streets unemployed. For some time past the government has been giving them an employment wage that has kept body and soul together. The little children in Great Britain have been going to the public schools and receiving their morning meal—a cup of tea and dry bread. In the midst of all these conditions, however, we find that the public house is never closed. This condition is one of the most dreadful things that could come into any country, and how grateful I was every day I was there to feel that I lived in a country where we enjoyed prohibition. It is a very pitiful sight to see on the sidewalk in front of the public houses the little children waiting not only for their fathers to come out, but also for their mothers to come out. ' We reorganized many of the Relief Societies before leaving. All of the people attend all of the meetings, and we had in our membership in the Relief Society organization, young girls from ten upwards. We have now a working force of about three thousand women in continental Europe and South Africa, with 155 branches. These women are now able to conduct their organizations by themselves through the indirect help of the priesthood. We have a great many people who are working with us who are not Latter-day Saints and who are doing good work. We make a great many things to give to the poor. The making of toys has even been taken into the Relief Society to secure funds to carry on the work. You will be pleased to know that our European mission has disbursed in cash over $15,000 during the past year, under very strenuous circumstances, especially in the German and Austrian missions where the greatest suffering is taking place. I would like to mention two or three other things that our sisters are doing. In almost every branch we have a maternity chest and the need of it is very great there. This maternity chest is kept replenished and in good condition all the time, and a wonderful help it is to the sisters. We find several of our organizations have adopted a child or two and are responsible for its education and food and clothing for a certain number of years. This past March, with three exceptions, all of our organizations observed the annual day of the Relief Society and I was very delighted to find this so. I feel that I should particularly mention 708 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the work done in the Swiss and German mission. They have been in very great need. Over $9000 in cash and hundreds of thousands of articles have been made and disbursed in the Swiss and German mission. This amount has been raised in continental Europe. When I tell you that many of the people are still eating very dark bread, a combination of straw and wood and shavings and a little bit of meal, you will understand what they are going through. Many of the children are undernourished. The women and the children in that stricken land are suffering untold misery, but continual relief is being sent to them and their condition is being relieved and improved. When I looked into the faces of those little children, which were just as white as though they were dead, my heart was filled with pity. I found women working in the fields, shoveling coal, etc. This distress is not universal, however, because people who have money can get what they need, but they are few indeed. I would like to say that the Relief Society women who are working in Europe are full of the Spirit of God, they are true blue, they are serving the Lord with all their might, mind and strength. Their eyes are turned toward Zion; they wish they could come and mingle with you, and I should like to say to the General Board that they love them and sustain you all.
PEACE RESOLUTIONS,
A resolution on peace and the limitation of armaments, prepared by Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, was presented by Counselor Louise Y. Robison and was unanimously adopted. (This resolution appeared in the November number of the Relief Society Magazine.)
EMMELINE B. WELLS RELIEF SOCIETY MEMORIAL LOAN FUND.
Just before closing the conference, President Williams presented to the great assembly the proposition of establishing, at the Brigham Young University, a memorial loan fund for girls, in honor of the late President Emmeline B. Wells. This matter had already been acted upon favorably at the General Officers' meeting, and it was now brought for approval of the entire conference. President Williams asked those who favored the proposition to stand in silence for a moment with bowed heads. It was an impressive and touching moment, when the entire congregation stood and, with bowed heads, approved of this lasting memorial to their late beloved leader.
Out of the World By G. Milton Babcock.
XIV (Concluded)
Walter felt that he had earned a vacation, for the strain of the strike had told greatly upon him, intensified, perhaps, by the sympathy he felt for the cause of the workers. He was, therefore, granted leave with pay for a week, and Sunday morning, April 17, he started for Glens Falls with his mother, taking the stage over the mountain. He wrote ahead that he was coming to be baptized, and also wrote his cousin Elizabeth of his intentions, suggesting that-she witness the ceremony. To his surprise and delight, he found her awaiting him at the Guiles home. "When I got your letter, I showed it to the folks and told them I had decided to be baptized with you," she announced. "Good for you! Elizabeth. You don't know how glad I am to hear you say that. You know the Bible says, 'one of a city and two of a family.' " "Yes; but I had a terrible time to get away. Mama and Dot are absolutely against it, and only papa gave me any encouragement. I do hope and pray mama will see thing's in a better light— if she would only let me talk with her." "Well, you. Know, Elizabeth, that he who loves father or mother more than Christ is not worthy of him. I, too, have passed through some hard experiences for the gospel, but, fortunately, mother will listen to the elders, though she can't understand yet that I know anything about it myself; she thinks it is simply the influence of the elders that keeps me in line. I hope, some day, the Lord will open up the way for us both to convert our folks." About a mile from the Guiles' flowed the Hudson, and shortly after noon that day Walter and Elizabeth came "out of the world," and entered the fold of Christ. A thin coating of ice was on the water. Walter was baptized first, and, although the water was very cold, a feeling of joy and exultation possessed him that overshadowed everything else. Were not his sins washed away? Was he not making a covenant with God? Was he not becoming a son of God by adoption in the flesh, thus completing the cycle of family relationship with his Maker that had its beginning in the spirit world? Bravely Elizabeth went down into the cleansing waters, and, 710 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as Elder Wood guided her shoreward, the sunbeams spread a glorious halo around her serene countenance, reminding Walter of the painting of an olden saint on one of the windows of St. Mark's at home. Quickly they drove back to Guiles' where confirmation was held. Walter was given the privilege of speaking and bore a strong testimony, stating that his desire was that he would be "faithful unto death" in order that he might win a "crown of life;" that, regardless of the acts of any individual member of the Church, he would ever realize that he had espoused the principles of the gospel and not the personality of any individual. Perhaps his remarks were partly inspired by the actions of a certain local couple who had been "converted to the elder" rather than to the gospel; who, as soon as the missionary had been released, promptly forgot their duties as Latter-day Saints. Then, too, Elder Wood had told him that, if it was ever Walter's good fortune to gather with the Saints in the valleys of the mountains, he must expect to find good, bad, and indifferent "Mormons'—''Jack-Mormons" he called the last. He would, possibly find some of the elders whom he had entertained engaged in a stern struggle for the necessities of life, and not able to return the hospitality which had been bestowed upon them while in the mission field. From Guiles', Walter and his mother departed for Green Island, accompanied by Elder Lester, who was anxious to call on Captain Robbins. Arriving in Troy, Elder Lester found lodging with a family of Saints there, while Walter and his mother were heartily welcomed by Uncle Billy and Aunt Angie in Green Island.. Walter was greatly surprised at how his aunt and uncle had aged since he last saw them, especially his aunt. They were fast approaching the halcyon calm of their journey over the ocean of life, and soon the snows of winter would rest heavily upon their brows. She had suffered much because of Walter's home-leaving, she said, and felt that he had been ungrateful for what she and his uncle had done for him, but was glad he was doing well and she, herself, was trying to forget the past. Walter hesitated before telling of his new religious affiliation. In fact, at first, he thought it would be best to say nothing at all, recalling his aunt's great prejudice on matters religious. However, he decided that he had been "warned," and that he would not be doing his duty if he failed to present the gospel to his people. "It's a shame and a disgrace for you to belong to the "Mormon' Church!" Aunt Angie exploded indignantly when Walter informed her. "You've been taught better, and I don't see why OUT OF THE WORLD 711 you want to forsake your teachings now—but you always were headstrong," she added reflectively. "Two of their book agents came to my door years ago. They were both polite young fellows and posed as gentlemen—but that's just it; they send out That'll do, now!" she commanded, as Walter started to protest. "I don't care to listen to anything you have to say about the 'Mormons,' and please don't mention them again while you are here." Nevertheless, Walter did mention the subject to his Uncle Billy, who received it with a characteristic remark: "Go to it, boy; I reckon you're as near right as any of them!" One evening Walter and Elder Lester started out for Captain Robbins'. The old houseboat had been hauled far up from the water's edge. "I reckoned you'd put into harbor again," beamed the Captain, heartily shaking Elder Lester by the hand, recognizing him instantly. "I've prayed to see ye again. Well, of all things! Lad, how are ye?" almost crushing Walter's hand in his powerful grasp. "Captain Robbins, this is Elder John Lester, a minister in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I met him up north and he remembered talking with you, so we decided to come and see you together," "The Church of Jesus Christ—what? Say, that name sounds good to me. I've never heard a Church afore sailing under them colors." "Yes, Captain," declared the elder, "it's the only Church that I know of that bears his name. The last part of the name is 'of Latter-day Saints.' You know the followers of Christ were called 'Saints' in his day, and we say 'Latter-day Saints' to distinguish us from them." "So they were, sir—so they were. What port do ye hail from?" "My home is in Provo, Utah." "Out in the 'Mormon' country, eh? Let me see, let me see,"' he went on reflectively, "don't the 'Mormons' call themselves Saints?" "Yes, sir, I'm a sure-enough 'Mormon,' " announced the elder. "Well, I'll be blowed! Why, don't you know, the summer afore I started to run the ferry I took a trip to Yellowstone Park. We changed trains at Ogden, Utah, and I decided to take a run liked their lingo, I anchored there three days and never see a finer lot of shipmates. So you're one of them ?" "And I'm one, too!" exclaimed Walter impulsively, unable to keep back the news any longer, A look of surprise greater than before overspread the Captain's features, "So I was preaching 'Mormonism' to ye, lad," he grinned reflectively, "and it washed ye overboard! Well, lad, if this ere minister has any more cargo aboard like what he had last time, I guess I'll have to take passage with ye," he on the living and on the dead—on the just and on the unjust. The day grew dark, Mournfully the chapel bell sounded, like an angelus calling to devotions; but the unnumbered hosts of the sleeping city heard not—cared not. The two mourners took refuge in a shelter which had been erected under a large, drooping willow, A tinkling brook flowed nearby, eagerly welcoming the raindrops, "Don't cry, mother," pleaded Walter as she gave way to violent weeping, Presently she controlled her feelings, "The rain makes me sad, Walter," she grieved, "when I think of your father lying OUT OF THE WORLD 713 "at least, he did not belong to a church. For all that, he had a faith in a heavenly Father." "Ah, that's just it, mother! It isn't always those who belong to churches that are the best people, or have the most faith. I believe my father fought the good fight and that he kept the faith that he had. And little do I know what a faith that really was! Remember, mother," he continued earnestly," far-away look coming into his eyes, "the time we lived in Simmons' house: Jane Bass called and you went on to tell her how you and my father met? I was lying in bed listening, and I can hear your voice today as plain as can be. You said that father told you, 'I hope, some day, either in this world or the next, I shall find "And then, mother, you broke down and cried!" the tears starting into his own eyes at the remembrance. "And—and, Walter, I wonder if he knows the right way, now?" she sobbed, repeating her question of nearly ten years "Yes, mother, I believe he does. But, suppose he does know the right way—what good does it do him? He never has been baptized into the true Church of Jesus Christ, and without such baptism, so Christ told Nicodemus, he could not enter the kingdom. To live according to God in the spirit;' that is, have the same laws "My son," she said, deeply moved, "I only wish I could believe as you do. It is certainly 'most beautiful to think that there is a chance after death, Perhaps your father is waiting for you to have that work done for him," she suggested, a hopeful light shining in her deep eyes, "Come, mother, it has stopped raining, and we'd better get back to the station." One more look at the spot where lay the earthly remains of the father he had never known, wishing that a voice could call from the grave and bespeak its longings, and then he departed. *£ *& | A few evenings after his arrival home, Walter called on Edith. He found her reading. 714. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "What book is that, Edith,' he interrogated, after they had exchanged a few pleasantries. "It is entitled Added Upon, she replied. "Ever heard of it?" she queried archly. "Seems to me I have," he answered slowly, "but I can't just recall it now." "You're a fine Latter-day Saint!" she scolded demurely. "Why, Edith—what do you mean?" "I mean that Added Upon is one of the best stories I have ever read, and further, that it was written by a 'Mormon!' " "Do you mean to say that you have been reading a 'Mormon' book?" he demanded incredulously. "I certainly do; and further, Mr. Nelson," she went on roguishly, "I'll wager a piece of my apple pie that I baked this afternoon against a ticket to the Methodist entertainment tomorrow night that I've read more 'Mormon' books than you. See! There they are," pointing his wondering eyes to a well-stocked shelf in the bookcase. "Edith," said he quietly, but with trembling voice, "I can't understand it all—yet., Come! It's a beautiful evening—let's take a walk along the River Road, and you can tell me more about it," he persuaded. "You see," Edith explained as they started out, "for some weeks after you left that tract with me I refused to read it; but somehow or other, one evening I couldn't resist picking it up. I read and liked it, so thought I would return it to you and get some more literature. I felt rather bad at the way I had spoken to you that day in your house, but when you took the tract from me so coldly, I couldn't bring myself to speak of 'Mormonism' at all. I glanced at the address of the Eastern States Mission on the last page, however, and wrote them for literature. Ever since, I have been buying tracts and books from them. You see—it was all very simple!" she concluded gaily. A warm spring breeze murmured and the moonbeams voluptuously danced and flitted through the infant treetops, over the brilliant green foliage along the shore, and out into the water where they formed a silvery moonglade. Plaintively a nightbird called his mate, while faintly could be heard the croon of the dam as it mothered the receding waters of the freshet, holding them safely above its breast until the summer drought began. "Do you know what night this reminds me of, Edith?" he asked, as they walked slowly along, arms entwined. "No, I don't, Walter," she answered softly. "It reminds me of the night I visited Captain Robbins to talk religion and met you on the way home." OUT OF THE WORLD 715 "Yes," she added impulsively, "and I, the little silly, had to get you into trouble with your aunt by telling her you weren't at church!" "You made up for it the following Sunday, though, Edith." "How?" "By giving me some of the sweet peas from your bouquet. I have cherished them ever since." "I saw them in your Bible. Were they so precious as all that," she murmured. A moment of prophetic silence prevailed. Overhead shone white, steady Jupiter, while directly to the south, midway of the horizon, blazed the brilliant Dogstar, Sirius, sending earthward his exquisite flashings of bluish white. Then Walter spoke: "They were, Edith. They always reminded me of you—you whom I have loved ever since the day we went over the dam together. Edith!' he went on, drawing her impulsively to him, "will you—will you wait for me until we can sail over life's main together?" "Yes, Walter—I will," she answered happily, "upon one condition." "And that?" he breathed. "That we embark for Time and all Eternity—from the House of the Lord," she whispered reverently. (The End.) MUSIC No more beautiful and useful department of the Relief Society exists, both in a general and local way, than the choir and choirs which make music for our ward meetings, our state and general conferences. We are presenting to our readers, a picture of the General Relief Society choir, with our gracious and gifted choir leader, a beloved singing artist, and her able assistant in her work, Miss Edna Coray, who is an organist par excellence. Miss Coray is an artist by gift and by training. These two certainly have developed the general choir along the best musical lines, and have produced for us music which is rarely surpassed by other choirs wherever they may be found in the Church. Miss Coray is also a composer, and we are happy to give, in this number, an original song by her, which is sometimes sung by the general choir. Standing in front of Mrs. Edward, are the new Presidency of the Relief Society. Mrs. Hyde has done much in the way of encouragement and assistance for the general development of the choir. World Happenings By James H. Anderson. Utah's population in 1920 was 85.8 percent native born white people. A woman's branch of the National League of Women Voters was organized at Provo, Utah, on October 28. Jews who have relatives in America are being allowed by the soviet government to leave Russia. London's (England) death rate in 1920 was 12.6 per thousand, while that of New York was 16.17. Women are more competent than men as pharmacists, is the announcement of the dean of Columbia College, New York. Floods in British Columbia, Florida, and elsewhere, in October, caused much property damage and some loss of life. A great fire in New York on November 4 destroyed extensive wharves on the Hudson river front, at a loss of over $5,000,000. Soviet Russia, thought by many people to be on the verge of collapse, does not seem to be in that condition for the present. Freight rates on grain and other farmer's products in the United States were reduced materially on November 20. Greek troops again defeated the Turkish nationalists in battle east of Constantinople the first week in November. Senator Philander C. Knox, one of the best friends the people of Utah had in the nation, died in October, aged 68 years. Autumn weather, in the western United States, was brighter, drier and warmer in 1921 than in any preceding year back to 1864. Spain still has its war in Morocco, and 20,000 more troops were sent there in November, with 120,000 additional Spanish troops called to arms. WORLD HAPPENINGS 717 Ex-Emperor Charles, of Austria, who recently endeavored to regain the Hungarian throne, is to be made an exile on one of the Maderia islands, as Napoleon was on St. Helena. Japan names as one condition of uniting in a peace movement that the United States discontinue fortifying its Pacific Islands possessions. Women learning to swim are declared by English authorities to prefer men instructors, alleging that the latter are more dependable in their work. Jewish physicians in the United States have contributed one million dollars for the establishment of a medical college in connection with the university in Jerusalem. Aviation companies are being organized in New York and London to give an air-passenger service around the world in 17 days, in 1922. "Home brew" in the United States caused an alarming increase of premature deaths in 1921, because of the fatal poison in the immature brew. Juarez Stake academy ("Mormon") in Mexico, after being closed for several years because of disturbed conditions in the southern republic, began its 23d year with a good enrollment, on opening in 1921. Senator Reed Smoot's proposed tax system for the United States, although conceded to be the simplest and most equitable yet suggested, was not accepted by Congress in its present efforts at tax revision. Milk-wagon drivers in New York went out on strike on November 2, and as the strikers would not permit other men to take their places, a milk famine followed. David Lloyd George, British premier, could not come to America for the opening of the international disarmament conference, owing to the Irish situation, but may come later. Many thousands of coal miners in the middle western states went out on strike, on November 1, against a court order forbidding employers holding union dues out of the men's wages, for the union. 718 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE British wireless communication around the world is expected to be completed in 1922—England to Palestine, Mesopotamia, India, South Africa, Australia and Canada. Eugene Lyman Fisk, New York health expert, announces that owing to her physical training the present day college girl in America is the best model of perfect health. Thrift was a timely topic by President Anthony W. Ivins at the "Mormon" Church conference iri Salt Lake City, in October. His suggestions being well worthy of careful perusual, and thoughtful consideration. A Catholic priest, in a recent conversation held in Ireland with Harold H. Jenson, correspondent of the Deseret News, declared: "The Sinn Feiners will fight till every man is killed'"—a poor outlook for permanent peace in Ireland. Pharaoah's palace, where Moses appeared before the Egyptian monarch, is being uncovered at the ancient Memphis, under the direction of Dr. Clarence F. Fisher, a curator of the university of Pennsylvania, and many interesting relics have been exhumed. Distinguished visitors to the United States in November were Marshal Foch, of France, Admiral Earl Beatty and wife, of England, and General Armando Diaz, of Italy—each a chief in his class in the late world war. Countess Lastazzi (an American lady), better known by her stage name of Miss Meredith, advises American girls not to go upon the stage in France, because ''the average society man is a brute" who aims at the girls' ruin for his own base purposes. The assassination of two premiers within one month— Premier Hara of Japan and Premier Granjo of Portugal—at the commencement of November, may have serious consequences in each of those nations, particularly in Japan, in the latter's international relations. Former Senator Sutherland, of Utah, has been named by President Harding as chairman of the advisory committee of - twenty-one at the Washington disarmament conference. J. Reuben Clark, also a native son of Utah, whose fame as an international lawyer is nation-wide, is one of the technical staff of thirty-four at the conference. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - a President MRS. LUCY JANE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - -. First Counselor MRS. LOUISA YATES ROBINSON - -. Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Susa Young Gates Mrs. Lelene Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia Childs Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosanna C. Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: - - Susa Young Gates Business Manager - - - - - - - - Janette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - - - -: - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VII DECEMBER, 1921 No. 12 THE YEAR'S OLD AGE CHRISTMAS TIDE To children, to youth, and to early maturity, the Christmas season brings thoughts of joy, feasting and present-giving. But to those who have reached the youth of old age, the month of December brings thoughts of the aging days soon to fall asleep in the cradle of the infant new year. Age with its frequent loneliness, its loss of capacity, its failure of early ambitions, and above all the growing feeling that no one needs or wishes us about, this is our tragedy! Talk of Christmas gifts! Once a year presents—what are they to the lonely aching heart of age! How can one bright holiday make up for months of forgotten needs! We aging women want congenial work to do each day! Health to do our work!—opportunity to work. That is heaven to any normal human being. Work and a quiet room of our own, one loved companion near—ah, then Christmas brings good cheer. If the young-old woman has cultivated the habit of reading —the papers, novels, and most especially the Bible and Book of Mormon, she will find infinite comfort and company in her reading, particularly in the glorious books of the scriptures. She should not read in an accidental way, but read them right through —again and again. Orson Pratt once said he had read the Book of Mormon sixty-three times. It grows richer and. Fuller with each reading. This aging woman must work, cook, sew, patch, embroider, peel potatoes, knit—she can always knit, even if her eyes trouble 720 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ner. If you could see the blessed old blind women in the temple waiting in the hall to go forward—visiting happily, and knitting — knitting—you would feel that you could find work to do, no matter who you were or where you were. Don't be idle. Find an absorbing interest—in your grandchildren, in the thrilling news of the day, in the Relief Society, or, best of all, in the temple! If you can live in a temple district, go to the sacred courts of the House of the Lord and there find rest, peace and throbbing interest in life. If you don't, try to learn how to keep temple records or make temple clothing, or do the housework for your busy daughter while she writes in your records. If you must eat the bread of dependence, avoid interfering with your "in-laws." Even let your own daughters and sons alone, unless they seek advice and counsel. It is hard for mothers and mothers-in-law—after you have been the hub of a swift moving wheel for forty or fifty flying years—it is hard to find yourself just a spoke in the wheel, and often an insecure, rather wobbly spoke, at that. But learn the new lesson—don't meddle with child, or either parent. Just keep your eyes shut— like you do when your reckless son is driving the ''Tin Lizzie," on one wheel around a dugway. Keep still and pray! But don't be idle. Keep busy. Find something to do that will really help your dear ones. At the same time, don't neglect the spirits of the dead who are crying out for help on the Other Side. Braid rag rugs, knit, patch, darn stockings, peel potatoes, wash dishes!— you will never fail to be welcome in any household if you work happily at these homely and healthy tasks. Write letters, keep accounts for your children. Above all, honor the son or the son-in-law who is the head of the household wherein you may be dependent. Never allow insubordination, in your own heart, or in the heart of your daughter, to the counsels of the man of the house. Avoid pitying your daughter or yourself. Strengthen her will and your own by a firm resolve to be obedient to counsel and to honor the Priesthood. Only so can you have peace in your heart, or in her home. Do every possible thing to make others pleased and happy, then you will be happy yourself. If the Christmas finds you with only your regular darning and patching all done up, even these small tasks will be sanctified and glorified with the Christmas glow and cheer which beautify the giver and the doer of deeds far more than the receiver. Don't be dependent, don't feel dependent. Earn your way—if not with work and toil, then earn it in a far more beautiful way, with smiles and sympathy and sweet encouragement to all around you. Learn to pay daily compliments to your loved ones about the becomingness of dress, their good cooking or excellent behavior. One verbal bouquet is worth a bunch of tea roses. EDITORIAL 721 The most glorious way to spend your remaining months or even years is in the temple. Persuade your children to contribute each a certain amount—if you have no financial resources of your own because you have foolishly given your children your home and property—persuade them—and they certainly owe you that much—each to pay a small monthly sum to you and with that you go to a temple for the winter, in Dixie, in Logan, or in Manti; take a tiny room, do a bit of patching and darning for your neighbors, on the days you are not in the temple, to earn a few extra dollars. O the independence of your life; O the delight of knowing someone needs you; O the joy of saving souls; and O the peace which will come to your soul and to the souls of your children when the Christmas time comes around and they proudly say, "My mother is so happy. She spends all her time in the temple." And you reply gratefully and humbly, "How glorious is the Christmas to those who are privileged to partake, in spirit and in truth, of the Christlike mission, which is peace on earth, good will to men, here and on the Other Side! NOTE OF CORRECTION One more mistake must be corrected concerning the authorship of the story, "The Wages of Sin," which was published in the October number of the Magazine, and which has already been corrected once. Lucy Guyman Bloomfield did not write the story, but Lucy S. Burnham did. Address all communications for this department to the editor, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, and not to the Relief Society Magazine. Add the author's name to verses, articles, or stories which may be sent in and which sometimes get separated from the letter which accompanies them. MISTAKES When a plumber makes a mistake he charges twice for it. When a lawyer makes a mistake, it is just what he wanted, because he has a chance to try the case all over again. When a carpenter makes a mistake it is just what he expected.; When a doctor makes a mistake he buries it.; men a judge makes a mistake it becomes the law of the and. When a preacher makes a mistake nobody knows the difference. When an electrician makes a mistake, he blames it on the induction; nobody knows what that means. But when an editor makes a mistake—Good night! Guide Lessons for February LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) PRAYER The time: morning and evening. The place: preferably the best room in the house. Those taking part should face one another in a family circle: Procedure: father presides, and in his absence, the mother directs. Each member of the family of sufficient age takes turns. This practice should prevail from the day of marriage until the end of earth life. As to the matter of taking turns, children are very sensitive. One lad said to his father, 'Papa, why don't you ever give Mama a chance to pray?" A survey of the prayer habits of the students of the Brigham Young University showed more faithfulness in secret prayer than in family prayer. Relatively few were able to report that they took their turn in offering prayer in the family devotion. The survey also showed more faithfulness in attending secret prayers in the evening than. In the morning. The choice between the value of a morning and an evening prayer would seem to go decidedly in favor of the former—if we consider under which condition we need most help, awake or asleep. The Parts of the Family Prayer: The first part of the family prayer would naturally be composed of thanksgiving, pouring out of gratitude. It is quite natural and surely theological. Following this, in theological order, would come the remembrance of others. Under the instruction given by the Master we pass with love of God to love of man. See Matt. 26:37, 39. Among those never to be forgotten in our family devotion are the authorities of the Church, with special mention of the First Presidency. The value of having the prophet's name mentioned in our family devotion is greater than it is generally thought to be. Having expressed our gratitude to the Lord and remembered others before him, we come to the petition for whatever the needs of the hour of the day seem to be, and among those needs is always spiritual guidance, protection, and forgiveness. One boy in his first family prayer asked the Lord to keep scolding and quarreling out of the family for that day. This is an example of originality and frankness which should be GUIDE LESSONS 723 encouraged and practiced in our family devotion. Every day we need forgiveness and it should be asked for with a remembrance that we must forgive others. This will foster humility and charity, two of the greatest of the virtues. These petitions suited to the needs of the hour will prevent the family prayer from becoming stereotyped. While these are the three elements of the family prayer, the order of presentation will naturally be varied. Answers to Prayers: If we can know that the Lord's view of our needs is superior to our own we shall not have our faith shaken through failing to get a quick and favorable answer to any prayer. The speed with which things are attended to in heaven is often conditioned by our conduct here. Doc. And Cov. 101:7. Sometimes there are unusual obstacles thrown in the way of our receiving an answer. Daniel 10:10-13, with attention to verse 13. Sometimes an answer is withheld because of our unreadiness to receive it, and sometimes the answer comes in a way that our expectation made it as unrecognizable to us as was the Messiah to the Jews who had been praying for him to come since the days of Abraham, but we may be certain that no consistent petition sent on the wings of faith from earth will ever be thrown into the waste basket of heaven. Some Things to Think and Talk About: 1. Prayer is the simplest and surest way to form a loving acquaintance with the Lord. 2. Praying only when we are in distress is unmistakable evidence of both ingratitude and weakness. 3. Praying with our children will affect their salvation more than praying for them.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. What do you think of this proposition: If parents neglect the Lord, their children will be apt to neglect them? 2. What was the occasion of the first prayer, and who took part therein? Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, Chapter 8:44, first sentence. 3. Does this scripture indicate that this prayer was a family prayer? 4. Would an occasional concert prayer be advantageous in the family circle? 5. Wherein is the forming of a family circle, of devotional value in prayer? 6. Emulate the essential contents of the family prayer. 7. Which part of the family prayer prevents the service from becoming monotonous? 724 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 8. What are the difficulties in the way of regularity in family prayer, and how may they best be overcome?, Why should the ward teachers know whether we attend to our prayers or not? 10. What is the value of an intelligent "amen" to a group prayer?
LESSON II Work and Business. (Second Week in February)
LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in February)
Professor George Careless, noted composer and musician, has made a contribution to the hymns of the Latter-day Saints that is invaluable. In a recent conversation with Professor Careless, he said that he had set the music to seventy L. D. S. Hymns. Much of this music has been composed for special occasions. It is the purpose of this lesson to devote itself to some of these compositions.
George Careless reached the valleys of the mountains in the year 1864. He had traveled from London to New York on a sailing vessel called Hudson. When they were near landing, -indeed so near to it that the effects of the ship were packed, the captain of the vessel asked Professor Careless to compose a piece of music for him. Consenting to this request, Professor Careless looked about for some place where he might rest his paper while he wrote. Finally, he discovered a barrel of bacon in the corner of the ship. He immediately made use of it, and on it wrote the music of "The morning breaks, the shadows flee," which he called Hudson. Professor Careless had been the leader of the London choir in the London branch of the Church. On the vessel with him were a group of persons who had sung in that choir. He called them together, and they learned the music quickly, and sang it to the captain. The composer presented the captain with a copy of the music before leaving the ship. It is beautiful music, set to beautiful words, and its name suggests one of America's most beautiful spots.
In the month of August, 1870, a very important debate took place in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. This debate was between Dr. J. P. Newman, of Washington, D. C. And Elder Orson Pratt of the Council of Twelve. Rev. Newman was well known because of his connection with the United States Senate, having served as GUIDE LESSONS 725 chaplain of that body, while Orson Pratt was very generally looked upon as a profound student and an orator of very exceptional ability. Professor George Careless, director of the Tabernacle Choir at that time, tells us that the Sunday prior to the debate, President Brigham Young called him aside and said, "Brother George, the people will be very timid next Sunday, because of Mr. Newman's great reputation, as a preacher, therefore, I want you to sing something that will hearten and give courage to the congregation." Professor Careless tells us that he sat down in one of the choir seats and composed a piece of music on the spur of the moment. He called it "Courage" and set it to the words "Hark listen to the trumpeters." It was sung for the first time when the great assembly met to listen to the speeches that opened the famous debate. This music may be found in the L. D. S. Psalmody, published under the caption "Courage." The brief time consumed in its composition reminds one of the fact that Nevin is reputed to have written the music to the "Rosary" in fifteen minutes. Professor Careless has always exhibited a great deal of genius in writing music for special occasions, certainly this incident is no exception to the rule.
In the exquisite music of "Rest for the weary soul," set to the words written by Henry W. Naisbitt, we bring together, as in "The morning breaks, the shadows flee," words and music by an L. D. S. Author and composer. This music was written to be sung at the funeral services of Joseph Young, the eldest brother of Brigham Young, who was connected with the First Council of Seventy, the father of Dr. Seymour B. Young, and the grandfather of Professor Levi Edgar Young. Later, it was sung at the service of Joseph Standing, the first martyr of the Southern States mission. The combination of Henry W. Naisbitt's words and the Careless music has produced an effect not often reached in funeral hymns. This hymn has been sung at the graves of many people connected with the Latter-day Saints Church, and with many not of its number. The key note of the entire hymn is Rest. The first stanza suggests rest from physical pain and exhaustion. The second stanza tells us that the battle of this life is over, then follows the exquisite figure, Rest, where the gates are closed With each evening's setting sun. The third stanza is devoted to the thought of that peace that pervades the heavenly domain, "Peace, where no strife intrudes" Death brings to an end the struggle Of our "wild life's busy hum." The fourth stanza carries the same thought as the third, 726 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the thought of peace, and adds that death frees the oppressed, and closes with the effective lines, "For the angels guard those well Who sleep on their mother's breast." The last stanza is a fitting climax to the hymn, it suggests peace and music, and finally the resurrection morn where "life's victory is won." From a purely literary standpoint two features distinguish this hymn. First, there is a mingling of the thought and feeling of rest and peace; secondly, the style, and under this head we note the diction, but particularly a group of effective figures of speech which, coupled with the thought and feeling, raise the hymn at times into the realm of poetry.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Give a brief sketch of the life of George Careless. Material to be found in Jenson's Biographical Encyclopedia. 2. Give names as nearly as possible of the persons who have served as conductors of the Tabernacle Choir. 3. Discuss the proposition: The Tabernacle choir, an important factor in establishing the musical prestige of this intermountain country. 4. What does it mean to be chaplain of the United States Senate? 5. Have the words of "Hark, listen to the trumpeters" read to the group; have the organist play the Careless music, "Courage.' Listen carefully to both words and music, and see if you think the composer accomplished his purpose, that of producing a hymn that would inspire courage. 6. Give a brief sketch of the life of Henry W. Naisbitt. 7. Name the hymns in the Latter-day Saint hymn book attributed to his authorship? 8. What does the poet mean when he speaks of sleeping on mother's breast? 9. What words of the hymn carry the note of hope? 10. Discuss this proposition: A funeral hymn failing to carry the note of hope, fails in its purpose.
LESSON IV Social Service. (Fourth Week in February)
LEADERSHIP IN THE HOME
In our previous lesson we observed two ways in which the home is regarded, first, as a preparatory school for training boys and girls for useful service in the community, the church, the GUIDE LESSONS 727 state, and the nation; secondly, as an end in itself, a sort of ideal life, one for which we must make preparation, if our ideal is to be realized. According to this viewpoint, the schools and our religious organizations become means to the end of better home life. Preparation for home leadership is thus a preparation for real life, a life to which every normal man and woman should look forward. In this lesson, when we speak of home leadership, we mean such leadership as is expected of a husband and father, wife and mother. This, however, does not mean that other members of the family, such as a grown up son or daughter, may not contribute in certain ways and at different times, to home leadership. Very often a young man or young woman in the family possesses skill or information which the family is very much in need of and which parents may not possess. When such is the case, it is to the advantage of all that such responsibility of leadership should be placed upon them.
WHAT HOME LEADERSHIP IMPLIES
To be a leader in the home is a responsibility quite-as difficult as it is important. The demands upon such leadership, although numerous, may be classified under three headings, those necessary for life, those essential to health, and thirdly, those essential to moral and spiritual welfare. (1) The first demand is that of providing food, clothing and shelter for the family. The basic importance of this requirement cannot be over estimated; in fact, the very existence of the family depends upon the satisfying of this need. (2) The second class of demands is also significant, that of knowing how to care for the physical bodies, especially those of growing children. The child must be guarded and protected on every hand from accidents and diseases. And when sick he must be nursed back to health. The intelligence and skill required here is of a very high order. Of course, expert assistance may be employed to help the family meet the demand for health, but the extent to which doctors, nurses, and hospital services are employed will depend largely upon the income of the family. The average home can afford to employ health experts only when emergency requires it. Home _ leadership must, in general, embody health leadership. (3) The third duty which home leadership must perform, the moral and spiritual education of the family, is even more difficult than the second. This kind of service cannot be bought with money. There are no expert moral and spiritual physicians that we can employ to help us solve questions of this order. Father and mother must possess the intelligence and skill required to protect the home from vice and to promote wholesome moral and spiritual life within the circle. 728 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
EDUCATION FOR HOME LEADERSHIP
God has endowed most parents with powers and capacities to meet, with a fair degree of success, the demands which are made of them. But these capacities may never come out and show themselves unless we make an effort to bring them forth. We must educate ourselves to think, we must school our feelings, we must train our impulses to wait until the more careful judgment gives command. Home leadership needs to cultivate exemplary habits. It needs to develop guiding principles, high ideals. But good habits are not formed, nor are ideals developed, without effort. Individual application, diligence, coupled with our natural endowments on the one hand, and the splendid religious and. Educational institutions on the other, should make it possible to develop among the Latter-day Saints as high a type of home leadership as the world has ever known.
FACTORS IN EDUCATION FOR HOME LEADERSHIP
We are not unappreciative of the great service the public schools and our religious organizations have rendered in educating young people for home life. But as parents we are becoming more fully aware of what home leadership means, and ever more conscious of our limitation in meeting the many demands that the home makes of us. We believe that the schools and the Church are capable of rendering even greater service in this respect, if only we will make proper use of them. We believe that young people who, within a few years are to take upon themselves the responsibilities of home leadership should be educated to sense its importance. They should be taught first of all to take a more serious attitude toward such subjects as marriage and parenthood. Such an attitude of mind would follow very naturally if education were headed a little more in the direction of the home (or at least not away from it). Every step taken by the schools and other educational organizations in this direction should be encouraged by parents. Our ideal will be reached only when (1) both men and women understand the seriousness of the religious and social obligations which the marriage relation imposes: (2) when they have a knowledge of the art of home building, including habits of thrift, economy, and industry; (3) when they are taught the fundamental laws and principles of physical and mental health, and (4) lastly, and by no means least in importance—when young people are educated in the basic laws of moral and mental growth and the best method of home education which will bring this about. 'In the lessons which are to follow, these questions will be treated more in detail. GUIDE LESSONS 729
QUESTIONS
1. How might the duties of home leadership be classified? 2. (a) Which of these duties call for special educational preparation? (b) Which can be met by good common sense? (c) Which of these obligations will money satisfy? (d) Which depend entirely upon the intelligent effort of the parents? 3. Why is the home a better place than a public institution for the moral and spiritual education of children? 4, What kind of education do you consider to be desirable for home leadership? 5. Describe (a) an ideal father, (b) an ideal mother. 6. In what way does our Church organization educate young people for the responsibilities of the home? 7. What are the high schools and colleges doing for the home? What more do you think they could do to assure good homes? 8. According to an educator of wide recognition, "eighteen out of one hundred college girls state bodily that they would rather be men than women," and more than "one-half of the school girls in these censuses choose male ideals, as if those of femininity are disintegrating." How do you account for this condition?
TEACHERS' TOPIC (February)
The Month of Patriotism
1, The Auxiliary Organizations' Slogan, "We stand for loyal Citizenship." 2. Washington and Lincoln, the highest types of loyal citizenship. Their loftiest ambition—their country's good. 3. Meeting of obligations and discharging: duties the test of loyalty., a. Prompt payment of dues and offerings. B. Regular attendance at meetings and support of officers.,
Life's Mirror Trio for Women's Voices Affectionately inscribed to Chorister Lizzie Thomas Edward and members of the General Relief Society Choir Larghetto. Met. J—60.
[Musical notation follows with lyrics:]
1. There are loyal hearts, there are spirits brave. There are souls that are pure and true: Then give to the world the best you have, And the best will come back to you.
2. Give truth and your gift will be paid in kind, And honor will honor meet; And a smile that is sweet will surely find A smile that is just as sweet.
Words by MADELINE BRIDGES. Music by EDNA H. CORAY.
Give love, and love to your life will flow, A strength in your utmost need, Have faith, and a score of hearts will show Their faith in your word and deed. For life is the mirror of king and slave, 'Tis just what we are and do. Then give to the world the best you have, And the best will come back to you.
To the Relief Society Magazine SUBSCRIBERS
Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address.
Watch for Your Expiration!
Are You a Subscriber to the Relief Society Magazine?
If not you are missing an opportunity to keep in touch with Relief Society work; and also the opportunity to help solve your Relief Society and home problems.
Send your subscription to Relief Society Magazine 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock;; Best in the Market WILL LAST A LIFE TIME—36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED
Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.
SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered
THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2. 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."
Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City
"It is our helpfulness and willingness in assuming the responsibility for the success of every meal, that makes DICKINSON'S the Household Word in hundreds of happy homes"
Quality—Cleanliness—Accuracy—Dependability CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES
Ladies Tailoring and Dressmaking Alterations Reasonable Send your hemstitching, accordeon plaiting, buttons and dry cleaning by parcel post Quick Service
Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Western Scout SHOES
A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language—a language understood by everybody, Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"—the kind they make at
Phone Was. 2861 6 Main St., Salt Lake
Lumiere Studio 680 East 2nd South Street 715 So. 8th E. Hyland 60 Hy. 4152 W.
Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month for the Past Ten Months
One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have you seen it?
Dependable Progressive The Deseret News
National Bank
The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them.
Officers HEBER J. GRANT, President. CHARLES W. NIBLEY, Vice-President. CHAS. S. BURTON, Vice-President. HENRY T. McEWAN, V.-Pres. & Cashier. ALVIN C. STRONQ, Assistant Cashier. JOHN W. JAMES, Asst. Cashier.
An Appropriate gift for Christmas A Bound Volume of the Relief Society Magazine
Following are the ones we have on hand: 12 Vols. Of 1915, Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1918, Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols of 1919, Cloth Bound 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919, Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920, Cloth Bound 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920, Leather B'd 3.00 15c Extra for Postage
All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.
Keeley's Ice Cream Co. "The Old Reliable' Making Special Candies Making Special prices for Christmas DELIVERED EVERYWHERE P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Phone Was. 3223 Was. 912
BY INVITATION A Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service
successors to Joseph E. Taylor Funeral Directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860.
S. M. TAYLOR, President PHONE WASATCH 912.
An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service.
251-257 East First South Street. Was. 912 A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas. Was. 912 Was. 912
