When It's Almost Blossom Time
By Lydia Hall
When it's springtime, lovely springtime And the sky is all a-glow, When the mocking birds are singing, And the south winds softly blow, When the honey bees are buzzing Where the honey suckles climb, When the world is full of beauty Then it's almond blossom time.
When the petals, pink are falling, Lightly falling on the ground, And the sparkling brooklet's singing With a very merry sound, When the lovely fragrance tells us That the world is all in rhyme, Then you know beyond all doubting That it's almond blossom time.
Notes from the Field
Rigby Stake: It gives us great pleasure to publish this little picture of the Ririe Ward, in Rigby Stake. Taken last spring, it seems to be expressive of Relief Society groups. As we note, the sisters in the picture range from the darling little babies in their mothers' arms, up to the mature women, who have written in their faces something of the story of life. These pictures are very expressive
?a fine demonstration of the message of Relief Society to all women of the Church, appealing alike to the mother with her first baby and to the grandmother.
That Relief Society women excel in more things than one, the reports from all parts where the organization exists clearly demonstrate. These accounts are eloquent of activity along all lines of development, physical, intellectual, spiritual.
Big Horn Stake: The office is in receipt of a most excellent cook-book of tested recipes. It is gotten out in a very attractive and practical manner, with a blue oilcloth cover, rendering it usable in every kitchen. The book not only is filled with excellent recipes for all kinds of articles of food, but it is also interspersed with very fine suggestions that cover the whole range of housekeeping. We congratulate the Big Horn Stake upon this achievement; it is another evidence of their enterprise, energy, and vision.
Alpine Stake: At the close of 1929, as a compliment to the ward officers and class leaders of the stake, a unique luncheon was given in the Alpine Stake Tabernacle by the Relief Society Stake Board. Two long tables, with covers set for 51 guests, were transformed into a mass of color by the use of Autumn flowers and table center pieces made of pumpkin bowls filled with red and yellow apples. This introduced the Hallowe'en motive, which was most effective in the soft gleam of lighted orange tapers. The guests wore Hallowe'en caps, and presented a most effective ap-
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
pearance. President Maud D. Christensen presided as toastmistress during the following program: Toast, "A Recipe for the 1 o'clock Meeting," by Jennie Cunningham: Toast, "The Relief Society Quilting Bee," by Eleanor Nicholes; Toast to the Board Members, by Hannah Ashby; Toast to the Ward Presidents, by Pearl Loveless. The occasion was greatly enhanced in value by the presence of General Board Member Jennie B. Knight, who was a special guest. Very fine music concluded a most interesting program.
Deseret Stake: At the regular Union Meeting during the Summer of 1929, a course in "Methods of Teaching" was given for all the Relief Society class leaders of the stake. Each ward in the stake held a Visiting Teachers' Convention during the summer and fall. The aim of these conventions was to encourage the teachers and help them to sense more fully their importance and responsibility in the organization. One or more stake board members attended these conventions. Successful Ward Conferences were held in each ward during the past year. A number of talks, all bearing on the theme of the home, gave the ward as well as the stake workers an opportunity for self-expression. The stake as a whole adopted a six months' plan for the Work and Business Meetings. This was successful in standardizing the work and producing the effects desired.
During the past year the stake board made regular visits to the wards, and the entire program on these occasions was furnished by the stake board. The theme upon
219
which all the talks were built was Happiness. On July 10, eight of the stake board members, with their husbands, took an outing to Beaver and Puffers' Lake. Breakfast was cooked camp fire style at Cove Fort. After having a regular monthly board meeting with one of the former board members in Beaver, the party returned to Puffers' Lake, where dinner was served. Hikes to the lake and other beauty spots made a most delightful conclusion to the excursion, which was a combination of recreation and demonstration of Relief Society work.
Liberty Stake: One of the outstanding features of last summer's pleasure enjoyed by the sisters of the Eighth Ward Relief Society, was a glorious trip to the Arizona Temple. The sisters, 25 in number, chartered a bus from the Union Bus Company, and left the Eighth Ward Chapel on the morning of May 22, arriving in Arizona, May 24, at 8 a. m. As the party approached the temple, it appeared a most beautiful sight. The temple workers were waiting for the sisters on the temple steps. President Udall welcomed the party, and took them through all the rooms of the temple. The beauty of the Mesa Temple is most wonderful, yet its extreme simplicity makes a very great appeal. The influence of this appeal was felt by all who had the opportunity of enjoying it. It was an experience the sisters will never forget. Before going through the temple a testimony meeting was held, and all responded to the wonderful spirit in the sacred hall. It was a great privilege for our women to be able to work for the Lamanite sisters. After the sessions in the temple,
220
Brother James W. Lesueur presented the party with a book of Indian Legends, compiled by himself. The party felt that it was a most unusual
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
opportunity to be taken sightseeing after the temple excursion. They saw the Indians on their reservations, the Jaredite Canal, and other historical places. The party is photographed under the giant cactus. After the party had concluded its sightseeing tour, it returned to Salt Lake by way of Death Valley, where a rather thrilling experience occurred in the form of a sand storm. The whole excursion was wonderful, never to be forgotten by those who were fortunate enough to be in the party.
The Lund Home: Before the holidays it was suggested to the General Board of Relief Society that books would be a most acceptable contribution to the Lund Home. The reading material available there was quite limited, as the boys do not have access to a public library. The board members were asked to bring into the office, for the boys, any books or magazines that could be spared from home libraries. Subscriptions were given for boys' magazines, and a fine selection of books assembled. The following letter is an eloquent expression of the appreciation felt by the boys:
"Dear Friends:
"We are sorry that we have neglected sending this letter before. We had a very fine, memorable Christmas, for which you are largely responsible. The books which were given to us are about the choicest and best selected volumes that can be given to boys. We are very grateful to our dear friends who have contributed to us. We thoroughly enjoyed the candy and nuts, and we wish to thank you again for these. The victrola is quite an amusing novelty, and we are afraid that if we don't stop playing it all the time that it will soon wear out. Our tree was decorated prettier than any other we have ever had; thanks for the decorations and all other gifts that you have contributed for our happiness.
"Your very grateful friends, "Lund Home Boys."
"FOR THE ADORNMENT AND PROTECTION OF ALL SURFACES"
Bennett's PURE PAINTS VARNISHES ENAMELS
Bennett Glass & Paint Co. Salt Lake City
Gas is Modernization
How easy it is to modernize your home... To put an end to dirt, bother and fuss! Natural Gas furnaces are easy to install. Whether you have a basement or not you can have a central heating plant, giving you uniform, clean heat at a surprisingly low cost. Automatic hot water furnished instantly by Automatic Natural Gas water heaters is a convenience every home should have. At 7 o'clock in the morning or midnight... You can have an abundant supply of hot water instantly, it does not matter when...
Other Natural Gas conveniences are automatic refrigerators, attractive cooking ranges, sanitary incinerators and space heaters to take the chill off these snappy spring mornings.
If you are located in a Natural Gas Community send this coupon to our nearest office.
Please send me further information about Natural Gas Modernization.
No obligation on my part.
Name _______________ Address _____________
Utah Gas & Coke Co. 45 South Main
Ogden Gas Co. 414 24th Street
Wasatch Gas Co. Branch Offices at Kaysville and Murray
THE IDEAL FUEL
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Planting Time Is Here
Tested Seeds and Reliable Shrubs and Trees part. With Porter-Walton's acclimated Our Seed and Nursery Catalog tells what, when and how to plant.
PORTER-WALTON CO. Salt Lake City
Send for Free Copy
FAITH
By Carrie Tanner
O wondrous gift from God, the gift of faith? The great impelling power within the soul. Like acorn small it grows to mighty oak That firm withstands the angry tempest rage.
Or like the vine, it climbs and spreads and clings Around the precious words of truth revealed, And blossoms in the warmth of God's great love.
O strong and sacred power that sustains The noble martyr on the torturing cross, Who fain would know the agonizing pain Ere from the lips would send denial foul.
The mighty power that doth stay the flame, Or close, for purpose great, the lion's jaw.
The path we walk that leads us on and on; And though the night be dark, the gloom be chill, The way be steep, it leads to wondrous gate That opens through the sacred jasper wall.
Sego MILK
Such Delicious Puddings Pies Custards Creams
Rival
At All Grocers
Temple and Burial Clothes
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and
Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone?Telegraph Orders. Open Daily, 9 a. M.?5 p. M.  , Utah 29 Richards Street Complete Printing and Binding Service OFFICE RULING. AND AND BANK YW ? FORMS BINDING SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.? Write us about them. The Deseret News Press Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Relief Society Women--- Attention | After sixteen years of service to the people, the BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT of the Relief Society takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation to you for your co-operation and patronage, which has contributed to the growth and stability of the Department. The Presidency of the Church, realizing the needs of the people, authorized the establishment of the Department in 1913. Since that time it has endeavored to serve the people. The Burial Clothes Department desires to announce that it has on hand a large and complete stock of temple and burial clothing in a variety of materials. There are suits for men and women, and burial clothing for children, including tailored suits for small boys. We give prompt and careful attention to mail, telephone and telegraph orders, and prepay postage and express charges. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 2m When YOUR Building BURNS There's a certain amount of comfort to know that should fire destroy your building tonight that Such insurance will indemnify you for the loss incurred and allow you to rebuild without financial hardship. It's worth a geod deal to have this protection in these times. See our agent in your town. UTAH HOME FIRE INSURANCE CO. HEBER J. GRANT & CO. General Agents 20 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah you are covered by fire insurance.