At the head of the Secretary's Office is Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, who must constantly care for a multiplicity of details. The many responsibilities of the Secretary will be partly realized and partly appreciated by the stake and ward secretaries throughout the Church. The Secretary's Office serves the field in detail matters every day of the year. Merely answering letters is a big piece of work.
The Magazine
The Magazine, edited by Miss Alice L. Reynolds, carries the lesson work of the organization into the field, fosters and supports Latter-day Saint ideals and standards, and publishes articles that voice the forward movement of our present life.
Latter-day Saint Women and Education
In the United States women do the major part of the teaching, and in this important work Latter-day Saint women have done their part. We are publishing the portraits of three women who have reached conspicuous places in the three colleges of the State of Utah. The first is Miss Maud May Babcock, who is the first Latter-day Saint woman to head a department at the University of Utah. She is also the first and only Latter-day Saint woman who has been a President of a Board of one of the educational institutions of the State. For many years she was President of the School for the Deaf and Blind. A fact of interest concerning Miss Babcock is that she has always been in competition with men in her position. The head of the department of Dramatic Art is a man in most colleges and universities.
The outstanding assignment made to a woman at the Brigham Young University has fallen to the lot of Mrs. Florence Jepperson Madsen, who is head of the Department of Music. Like Miss Babcock, Mrs. Madsen has been in competition with men, as we usually find a man at the head of the Department of Music in our colleges and universities.
Mrs. Rhoda Bowen Cook has the honor of being the first Latter-day Saint woman to head a department of work at the Utah State Agricultural College. She was head of what is known today as the Textile and Clothing Department in the School of Home Economics.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
In addition to giving recognition to these women as leaders in the field of education, we wish to draw attention to their respective lines. Miss Babcock represents drama, a line of art that has always been encouraged and fostered by the "Mormon" Church. To all women of the Church who have used this form of art to express the ideality and beauty of life as well as some of its sordid cross-sections, we pay tribute through her. Through Mrs. Florence Madsen, whose beautiful voice has been heard in many places of the United States in the alto part of the "Messiah," we pay tribute
OUR GALLERY OF PORTRAITS
to all the singers of Zion who have added the beauty of their voices to hymns to the sacred words of scripture, and to the compositions of the great masters. Mrs. Cook symbolizes beautiful handcraft work that has adorned the home, the costumes, of wife and children. To all who are skilled in this lovely art we pay tribute through Mrs. Cook. We wish these three women, prominent in educational work in the State of Utah, to stand as symbols for all the work in education done by Latter-day Saint women, wherever they may be; for "Mormon" women are engaged in teaching in many of the States of the Union.
State and Federal Positions
Our next group takes in two women, Mrs. Martha Hughes Cannon, who is the first woman to hold a seat in the Senate of any State Legislature in the United States; she was also the first woman elected to the legislature of the State of Utah. We desire that she shall stand as the symbol of all Latter-day Saint women who have served in State Legislatures since suffrage has been obtained. Next is the portrait of Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, who holds the
197
important post of Collector of Customs at the Port of Hawaii, now for a second term. Mrs. Hyde holds this position under the Federal Government. Not many women in the United States hold positions under the Federal Government, consequently we look on Mrs. Hyde as one who has blazed a trail where others may follow.
Our last portraits are of Mrs. Jennie B. Knight and Mrs. Inez K. Allen, who were the first regularly called women missionaries of the Church. Many young unmarried women have been called on missions since that time, but they were first to go into the field, directed in many instances to do much the same sort of work as the Elders. To the ever increasing group of young women who have gone forth as ambassadors of Christ, we tender through Mrs. Knight and Mrs. Allen our gratitude and esteem.
To all Latter-day Saint women who have in any degree served their Church, their Nation, and their God, we dedicate this issue.
The Bathsheba W. Smith Memorial was established February 20, 1924 and became effective January, 1925. Five Temples have had the use of it, which means that ordinance work in the Temple has been done for some three hundred women. There have been one hundred and two girls assisted in their course of study at the Brigham Young University by the Emmeline B. Wells Memorial Loan Fund. A fund first made available in May, 1922.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD