VOL. XVII. APRIL, 1930 NO. 4
EDITORIAL
The Book and the Poor
One of the comforting and really startling facts about the Book of Mormon is its constant and enlightened solicitude for the poor. For instance, Jacob, one of the early prophets, has this to say: "After ye have obtained a hope in Christ, ye shall obtain riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to do good?to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted." (Jac. 2:19.) Later Mosiah makes this illuminating remark: "For the sake of retaining a remission of your sins from day to day, that ye may walk guiltless before God?I would that ye should impart of your substance to the poor, every man according to that which he hath, such as feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, visiting the sick and administering to their relief, both spiritually and temporally, according to their wants. And see that all these things are done in wisdom and order; for it is not requisite that a man should run faster than he has strength." (Mos. 4:26, 27.) To this Alma, in his inimitable way, adds: "And now behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you, do not suppose that this is all; for after ye have done all these things, if ye turn away the needy, and the naked, and visit not the sick and afflicted, and impart of your substance, if ye have, to those who stand in need?I say unto you, if ye do not any of these things, behold, your prayer is vain, and availeth you nothing and ye are as hypocrites who do deny the faith." (Alma 34:28.) Mormon in his writings makes it clear that God rebuked the people for neglect of the poor?a fact
EDITORIAL
shown in the following passages: "And it was because of the pride of their hearts, because of their exceeding riches, yea, it was because of their oppression to the poor, withholding their food from the hungry, withholding their clothing from the naked." "And I know that ye do walk in the pride of your hearts; and there are none save a few only who do not lift themselves up in the pride of their hearts, unto
199
the wearing of very fine apparel, unto envying, and strifes, and malice, and persecutions, and all manner of iniquities, and your churches, yea, even every one, have become polluted because of the pride of your hearts. For behold, ye do love money, and your substances, and your fine apparel, and the adorning of your churches, more than ye love the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted."