When a Man Needs a Mother A Record from the Spokane County Jail By Philena Fletcher Homer, Ph. D.
Years ago Dr. Pentecost, the celebrated revivalist, began a series of religious services in Saltcoats, Scotland. During these meetings he and his assistant, a Miss Ticer, organized a children's class, like the Primary of the L. D. S. Church, except that it was undenominational. When the time came for Dr. Pentecost and Miss Ticer to move on to other fields, they looked around for some one to carry on the work. As Mrs. Mary Lambie was one of the most enthusiastic of their co-workers, they engaged her to keep up the organization. At first she was undecided. "I knew if I began that I should have to hold on," she said; but at last she consented.
For seventeen years this sweet little Scotch woman gathered the children of the community together every Thursday afternoon for spiritual training. Children of all denominations and all creeds came there, and under her inspiring leadership learned the lesson of God's love.
In May, 1911, she followed her only daughter to America and came to live in Spokane, Washington. Mrs. Lambie had been there only a short time when some friends asked her to visit the Spokane jail with them. What she saw there that Sunday afternoon moved and touched her; she felt that here was her life work—the work for which she had been especially called. To use her own words: "So grieved was I to see so many prisoners behind the bars, young men needing their mothers, that I pledged myself to God that if he would give me my health, I would visit them for him. The tears ran down my cheeks and I could not speak a word."
So began her sixteen-year-long career as "The Mother of the Spokane County Jail." She is eighty now, a lovely, sweet-faced, little Scotch woman; yet every Sunday she takes the long ride from her home to the jail, a distance of nearly two miles, to carry her message of love and cheer to her boys, as she calls them. Sunday is her day; from twelve until two she has the run of the jail, standing for two hours in the bleak corridors that she may talk to each man individually. "I can't speak to them sitting down," she said, "I must come close to the door and speak to them from my very heart."
She not only gives them spiritual comfort, but helps them in many ways. Sometimes it is a sum of money sent by anxious loved one that she lays away for the lonely boys until they are free; sometimes she writes a letter; sometimes helps the homeless man or boy to find shelter and food, until he gets on his feet; sometimes finds a Bible in their own language for the foreign-born. But whatever her service, it is given with such a spirit of love that it is never forgotten.
Mother Lambie is one of the few people who are allowed the run of the jail. As Jim McCowan, veteran jailer, says: "She is the only person who is universally welcome at the jail." There is no cell to which she is not allowed to go, no criminal so desperate that she is not allowed to speak to him and give her message of love and sympathy. She is not like many who visit such institutions; she knows what they need and she gives it to them. In Mother Lambie there is nothing of the "I am holier than thou." Her only thought is to comfort, not to blame, criticize, or sermonize.
One day last spring she was unable to go to the jail. The following Sunday, as soon as she came in, a shout ran from cell to cell. "Mother's here, mother's here;" and then some mischievous boy shouted "Mother's here, but she's not coming up." Immediately from the second floor came a great uproar; but Mrs. Lambie called out, "I'm here and I'm coming up."
From the far corners of the earth messages come to her; sent by those she has helped. A short time ago a man came up to her and said, "You don't remember me, but I do you. You visited me in jail fifteen years ago."
Two things Mrs. Lambie counts among her greatest treasures. One is a poem written by a friend to celebrate her eightieth birthday, and published in the Saltcoats, Scotland, paper. The other is a letter from one of her boys, written about two years after he left jail. In it he says: "You brought so many happy hours into my life when I was so miserable, but these are better days. I was married last May. My girl waited almost two years for me to get readjusted. It is fine to have a home of your own, isn't it? Am going to the University in January. Have only two more years left."
Thousands of the pitiful inmates of the jail have received her loving ministrations; boys, frightened and heartsick, or in for some mad prank, drunks, confidence men, old offenders, hardened criminals, even murderers, but they all have one name for her—Mother Lambie, and as the jailer says: "A man needs a mother when he's down and out."
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS