[Vol35 | March 1948 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: The Twain Shall Parry]
"THE  TWAIN  SHALL  MEET 
Bertha  H.  Woodland 
His  eyes  blinked  reflectively. 
Surveying  the  bountiful  hues 
Of  the  good  earth, 
Beholding — face  glowing — 
Each  vine  and  spear 
Of  accurate  worth. 
In  brotherhood  of  East  and  West, 
I  praised  his  contribution 
To  patterned  crops. 
.  ,  .  "God  colored  men,"  he  mused, 
"So  selfsame  roots 
Have  various  tops."

.V? 
Three  books  in  one  I 
THE  AMERICAS 
BEFORE  COLUMBUS 
by  Dewey  azici  Edith 
Famswarth 
Source  book  of  American  ar- 
chaeology. Includes  "Grandeur  of 
Ancient  America,"  "Buried  Em- 
pires of  South  America,"  and  a 
wealth  of  new  material.  300  ex- 
cellent photographs. 
Ideal   for  missionary,   teacher,    or   student   of   Book   of 
Mormon. 
176   pages — 9  by   12  inches — beautiful  binding.     Price. 
$5,   postpaid. 
Farnsworth  Publishing  Co. 
4635  Montana  Street  El  Paso,  Texas 
(Available  also  at  leading  bookstores) 
EXPECT  MORE 
The  O.  P.  Skaggs  System 
wants  its  customers  to  expect 
more  than  can  be  had  at  other 
food  stores.  It  sees  to  it  that 
they  get  more,  too — more  in 
the  way  of  quality,  more  in  the 
way  of  cleanliness  and  sanita- 
tion and  more  in  the  way  of 
variety  and  price  savings. 
gP.  SKAGGS 
System 
STOM 
'^>r#^»s#s»«»s»s»^s»v»s»^s#s#s»s^#>»^s»#s»s»v#<#s»^N#s».#v»^s« 
and  J^ocial 
^tat .lovieir^ ^ 
COMMERCIAL 
AND  EDITION 
PRINTERS  AND 
BOOK  BINDERS 
PAPER  RULING 
DESERET  NEWS  PRESS 
29  Richarda  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah 
Page  208

Tightening  the  Knot 
Alice  Whitson  Norton 
4  4  XY /"ELL,    Dot/'    big    Dean  ''I  guess  Fm  a   little   dull,   Mrs. 
Y^  Alford   exclaimed,   after  Carter,"  Dot  answered,  ''but  perhaps 
returning  from  their  joy-  I  will  learn  later  on  what  weight 
ous  honeymoon,  *1  guess  it's  time  tightening  the  marriage   vows  car- 
for  us  to  settle  down  now  and  begin  ries." 
tightening  the  knot.    That's  just  an  "I  had  to  learn,"  laughed   Mrs. 
old  saying  in  this  community,"  Dean  Carter,   ''when   I  first   came.     But 
laughed,  "but  you  might  find  it  both  Mrs.   West,  the    bride  just  before 
amusing  and  helpful  to  glean  the  myself  who  came  to  live  in  the  val- 
meaning  of  it  for  yourself."  ley,  advised  me  to   visit  with   the 
The  young  wife  thought  of  the  neighbors  and  draw  them  out  on  the 
matter  as  she  went  about  setting  in  subject,   and— well— "  she   finished 
order  the  cozy  little  house  of  which  softly,  "doing  just  that  opened  my 
she  was  now  mistress.    But,  reach-  eyes  considerably." 
ing  no  sensible  conclusion,  she  final-  "But    I'm    a    timid    soul,"    Dot 
ly  questioned  Mrs.  Carter,  her  next-  argued. 
door  neighbor  as  to  just  what  her  "Just  the  same,"   answered    the 
husband  had  meant.  woman,    "visiting   the   folks    living 
"Tightening   the  knot,"  laughed  here  and  observing  them  closely  will 
Mrs.  Carter,  "is  a  familiar  saying  in  make  you  think  seriously  of  the  nice 
this  particular  locality,  one  which  I  congenial   neighborhood   in   which 
believe  has  been  handed  down  from  you  have  come  to  live." 
generation  to  generation  among  the 
families  who  have  grown  up  here."  TT  is  true  Dot  was  timid,  but  she 
"But  what  does  it  mean?"  Dot  .       was   also   a  keen   observer,  and 
asked,  with  a  bit  of  curiosity.  through  observation  she   soon   dis- 
"It  means  just  this,"  chuckled  the  covered  Esther  Cooper,  a  very  placid 
older  woman,  "the  things  that  men  type  of  woman,  living  on  perfectly 
and  women  do  that  bind  them  clos-  congenial  terms  with  her  husband, 
er  together  as  their  years  of  married  She  attributed  the  fact  of  her  happy 
life  increase  in  number."  existence  to  keeping  herself   calm 
"Oh!"  exclaimed  Dot,  in  a  tone  when  her  husband  came  home  in  a 
that  clearly  revealed  she  knew  very  dark  mood. 
little  more  than  she  had  a  moment  When    Dick   arrived  home  like 
before.  that,  she  explained,  he  wasn't  the 
"It's  like  this,"  Mrs.  Carter  went  man  she  married,  but  only  a  tired, 
on,  "this  small  community  prides  harassed  business  man  who  would 
itself  on  the  few  divorce  cases  regis-  recover  his  amiable  disposition  ever 
tered  against  it,  and    one  and  all  so  much  quicker  by  her  leaving  him 
agree  that  it  has  been  through  the  alone. 
tightening  of  the  marriage  knot  that  "Oh,    yes,"   she  admitted,  when 
such  a  condition  exists.  Dot  questioned  her  about   it,    "it 
Page  209