[Vol35 | March 1948 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: The Tarlock]
The Visitors Fay Tarlock 
THE news came during breakfast. The First Counselor telephoned that, in the absence of the Stake President, he wished my parents to entertain the daughter of Brigham Young and the wife of a millionaire; and that the illustrious ladies would arrive from Panguitch at about noon, to give a week's course in some special Church work.
So began the enchanted week! Even today tiny details remain clear —the brightness of the summer morning, the music of the canyon stream, and the figures of my mother and my older sisters as they rushed upstairs and down. The ingrain carpet from the largest bedroom was taken up, beaten, and turned. The entire room was scrubbed, and the curtains and spreads swiftly laundered. My sisters worried about the beds. The springs were known to sag in the middle, but, after all, there was a bed for each lady, and so a little sag wouldn't hurt. Thorough cleanings were given the parlor and dining room.
Then, merciful goodness! The large picture of Brigham Young, which had long ago adorned the living room, was found to be hanging at the dark end of the upstairs hallway. Father and mother spoke in favor of bringing it right down to the parlor to hang by Bonheur's horses. The sisters said no, definitely. It would look as if we were trying to impress. After a quick debate, the picture was placed in what was once honored to be the guest room, but which had evolved into a haven for old books and magazines and the winter's supply of dried fruit and corn.
Everything was done now, my mother said, except cleaning the sitting room. This room was a perpetual clutter of family living. My skin was tight with pride when I called Mother to see what I had done unaided while the others were working.
In the kitchen there was a lastminute scurry to prepare the vegetables. Then we all changed into clean summer dresses and Father put on his second-best pants, and sat on the front porch to await the arrival. We were not as calm as we looked.
For me it was as if someone had rubbed the magic lamp. Susa Young Gates and Elizabeth Claridge McCune were coming to our home! High Church people had been in our home before, but none so eminent as Mrs. Gates, a celebrity in her own right, in addition to her famous name. And the McCune name was a fabulous one. Rich people, I thought, were of a different world. Their manners, their dress, their very ways of thinking were beyond us. Yet tonight Mrs. McCune would sleep in my bed.
Page 165 166 It was not a long wait. Soon there came the noise of a car bumping its way to our street. Out of the dust emerged the First Counselor's car. The First Counselor, dark and dignified, opened the rear car door for two passengers, swathed in gray-linen dusters and veils. As they came towards us under the shade of the mulberry trees, they shook the red dust of Southern Utah from their clothes. Another year or so, and cars would be gliding over smooth roads. This day, however, some of our roads had a kinship with pioneer trails. The First Counselor brought the ladies hurriedly down the gravel walk to the front porch. He told the ladies, not without anxiety in his well-bred voice, that he was sorry the Stake President was away. They would, he felt sure, be comfortable with Brother and Sister Ollerton. Then he made a hasty exit, his very back showing his relief. The ladies, still swathed in veils, sat in the porch chairs. Among their bags was a large one with foreign labels. My hands itched to touch it. Father, as if he read my thoughts, picked up this bag and a still larger one, and started towards the stairs. Mrs. McCune, a slender, gray-haired woman, rose to follow him. RS. Gates, whose hair was a more beautiful gray, and who was heavier in figure, did not rise. Other than her brief greeting, she had been silent. Now she lifted her right hand, and in the voice of one used to command she said, "Elizabeth! Wait a moment!" Startled, as were we all, Mrs. McCune came back. What could be wrong with our house? It was a white brick one, made of the best native materials and put together by the best craftsmen in Parowan. Guiltily, I thought of the sagging springs. No, Mrs. Gates could not know of them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948
Father was silent and puzzled.
With us, he waited for the pronouncement, which came after a long, dramatic pause. "We are requested to stay with the Stake President," said the daughter of Brigham Young.
Father started to say something, changed his mind, and set down the luggage. He went to the telephone, fastened on the wall.
After he had cranked the handle and contacted central, there was a slight wait, probably to give the First Counselor time to get inside his house.
Father stated his message almost as briefly and firmly as Mrs. Gates.
Turning from the telephone, he told the ladies the First Counselor would come at once.
Then with a suaveness of which we were proud, he sat down to entertain the ladies. He inquired about the journey, commiserating with them over the roughness of the roads, the heat, the dust. Mrs. McCune laughed, lightly and melodiously, as a great lady should. "I told Susa this morning," she answered, "that when we got to the railroad, I would faint in the arms of the first Pullman porter."
Mother excused herself quietly and came back with a pitcher of ice water. Nowadays, ice water would be only a common courtesy, but that day it was a social triumph.
There were few ice houses in Southern Utah, and we had one. The ladies fairly seized upon the water, unable to believe the tinkle really meant ice.
Then father asked Mrs. McCune about her father, recalling a time long past. "Ah, my dear Father," she said, and smiled wistfully as she told of him. THE VISITORS Turning to Mrs. Gates, father asked her about some men in Utah's political life.
Deftly he maneuvered the conversation to inquire if she were still writing. "It is time," he said, "that you gave us another John Stevens' Courtship." A light came into Mrs. Gates' eyes. She fairly scintillated as she talked. I could not take my eyes from her spirited face; her vibrant voice was like a spell. The chugging of the First Counselor's car was an unwelcome interruption. He told the ladies he would be only too happy to have them as his guests until the Stake President returned.
Reaching for the bags, his gesture invited the ladies to rise. Mrs. McCune, on the edge of her chair, was poised for instant flight. Only Mrs.
Gates was immobile. "We will stay with Brother Ollerton," she said, facing the now thoroughly mystified First Counselor, who stayed only long enough to tell the ladies he would call for them at two o'clock and convey them to the schoolhouse. Mrs. McCune, with a light step, ran ahead of my father and the bags. Mrs. Gates, walking behind, was dignified, her head high. I wondered if the picture should not be hanging in the parlor, after all. HE next morning, and each morning thereafter, I smoothed my braids, put on a clean apron, and knocked at the visitors' door. At my feet were two enormous white pitchers, one filled with warm water, one with cold. Pridefully I announced that first morning that by next summer there would be running water in the house, from the soon-to-be 157 water system. 'This did not elicit so much as a raised eyebrow from the ladies. I suspect now that they were a little weary of performing their ablutions in water from a pitcher.
That was the last and only disappointment they gave me. 'The week became a veritable Arabian Night's entertainment, with two gifted Scheherazades to make each minute seem a second. No two women could have been more charming or gracious guests.
Totally unlike, they had a genuine love for each other, and they gave generously from the rich store of their past. It was a quieter and a more innocent day.
There were no radios; the movies were not common, The townspeople, awed, perhaps, by the luster surrounding the ladies, gave no entertainment for them. It may be that the ladies themselves requested quiet because of the labor of long classes.
Whatever the reasons, we had them to ourselves during the late afternoons and evenings.
