[Vol35 | March 1948 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: The Establishment of the Luke]
Snow served as president until her death on December 5, 1887. Her whole life of service stands as a monument to her, and her fine writings tell the story of the efforts and achievements of her people and herself. T the death of Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H.
Young was called to the Relief Society presidency. Like Eliza, she came of New England parentage. She, too, bent all her efforts toward the intellectual advancement and betterment of living conditions of her people. In May of 1848 she began the journey to Salt Lake, walking, driving teams, and sharing in all the hardships of the saints at the time of the exodus. She taught the young, inspiring them to learn and to be active in their community. In 1870, at the call of President Young, she raised silkworms and established silk culture in the new Territory. In June of 1876 she began a course
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN UTAH 163 164 of medical studies which helped fit her for Relief Society work in her own home and in the homes of the community. In the home of Brigham Young she was known as "the doctor." Her interest in home nursing inspired other sisters to come from different settlements to follow her example. Relief Society has ever since had a corps of trained women in the organization to meet the responsibilities and emergencies that present themselves.
Zina was skilled in all types of women's work and was equal to all the requirements made of her. As mentioned above, she traveled, visited, organized, and assisted Eliza in the great beginning of Relief Society in the early days. She was an example of inspiration to women. At a mass meeting of women in Salt Lake City, November 16, 1878, Zina delivered an eloquent impromptu address that stirred and amazed her hearers. One of the reporters said:
I raised my eyes to her standing just before the table we were using. Suddenly, as I glanced at her, I received a strong electric shock, several gentlemen sitting at my right-hand, clutching the arms of the chairs, started as though they would rise to their feet, their faces burning with the truths they heard, their eyes fixed upon her fearless face and uplifted hands. I can never forget that moment. It was more than eloquence, it was inspiration (B. H. ROBERTS: A Comprehensive History of the Church, I, page 663).
We must marvel at the strength our pioneer women had, and we realize that their power lay in their worthiness and faithfulness; faith so profound that they received great blessings from God. The history of these women stands as a testimony to these facts: that God was with them, that their cause was just, and that their mission was to establish and further great institutions.
Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. H. Young, the early Relief Society presidents in Utah, gave to the organization much inspiration and spiritual impetus as well as many practical methods of organization for the carrying out of specific projects which were entirely new to the women of that time. These two leaders, with scores of other early Relief Society leaders, freely gave of their special gifts and talents to the Society. Because of their faith, amplified by their hard work and great courage, these leaders were able to overcome obstacles, to encourage their sisters in the face of frontier hardships, and to advance and direct the cause of the great women's organization.
Much of the inspiration that guided them will continue to influence the women of the Church, and the work that the early leaders have done will always be a source of great strength to the Relief Society and a foundation upon which the Society can grow and improve.
RECOGNITION FOR RELIEF SOCIETY
A communication from Germany bearing the following interesting address was recently received at the general offices of Relief Society:
GREATEST WOMEN ASSOCIATION Salt Lake City Nevada, U. S. A.
