[Vol35 | March 1948 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: First Romolo]

FIRST VIOLETS
Gene Romolo
Beneath brown leaves from yesteryear, I gently rake and thrust aside, They lift their purple-hooded heads, Like modest folk untouched by pride. They come each spring to offer me Their largess of humility.
SPRING WILL COME
Susa Gould Walker
New life and beauty everywhere; Rebirth to grass and trees and flowers; They were not dead—they were asleep, Awaiting summer sun and showers. The thought plants truth in every heart: The houses which enshroud our souls Will die, but not the souls of men; A spring will come for everyone, And they that sleep shall live again. RELIEF Society women all over the Church are interested in the different ways that the wards are collecting the $5 quotas from members for the Relief Society building fund, and the various means wards are using to chart the progress of their fund quotas. As a general rule, the visiting teachers throughout the Church are being used to publicize the fund-raising campaign and in many instances to make the collection, once more demonstrating the oft-repeated phrase that ''the visiting teachers are the backbone of Relief Society." Some wards have visiting teachers leave envelopes in the homes into which Relief Society members may place their dimes until they have saved the $5; others are leaving small containers of different types and styles into which the money may be put. In some localities it is recommended that jars be kept in conspicuous places and family members be asked to place pennies or nickels in as they can. This is a good plan as it allows the entire family to participate and recall the faithful work of a grandmother or some other woman member of the family who is remembered for her outstanding Relief Society service. In addition to collecting individual member donations, some Relief Societies are taking steps to raise money as a group in order to help sisters who may find it difficult to make a $5 contribution. One ward is turning over to the fund, for a limited time, all money made by quilting; another has a ''sale table" at each Relief Society meeting where handmade articles are on sale following the meeting. Still another ward has a food table where busy housewives can purchase homemade delicacies for supper. Some Relief Societies are giving concerts or parties to which members may bring their quotas. These are just a few of the many ingenious methods being devised by Relief Society officers in raising the assigned ward quotas. The most successful results are found in stakes where the Priesthood is actively supporting the program. In many wards the bishops are writing letters endorsing the collection which are left in the homes by visiting teachers. Page 151 152 
 —MARCH 1948
Different methods are also being used to chart the progress in a ward. One ward has an arch twined with electric lights and a new light comes on each time a member pays her quota.
Another ward had a neon-light building made, and the building is being outlined with light in proportion to the donations to the quota.
Letters are reaching the General Board from sisters near and far containing contributions and expressing their joy in the undertaking. The following three are typical: New Jersey We.... Are sending you a check to be applied towards the building fund for the new Relief Society Building. We have five members belonging to the Church and one non-member.
This is our last official act before disbanding as a Society. We are placing our names on. The roll of................. May God continue to prosper the work of Oklahoma I have just read the article in the December Magazine about the fund-raising program for the erection of the new Relief Society Building, I am sending my money to you because I haven't any idea where else I should send it. You see, there isn't a branch of the Church near here. My family are the only Latter-day Saints here.
Some day we hope to have a branch here so we can enjoy the Relief Society and all the other organizations in our Church. Toronto, Canada Now that the great University of Relief Society is to have a new home, I am grateful to send my small portion. We Latter-day Saint women have been attending free of all tuition for over a hundred years, It's almost fifty years since I became an active member. I have known and listened to all the general presidents since Eliza R. Snow. All my days I have been indebted to the host of great women who have shared their faith and teachings with me, all for the love of the gospel and their sisters of all races and creeds.
Nowhere on earth, even today, do women have the rich opportunities that are offered by our Relief Society, on such a broad cultural and spiritual basis.
Many valiant ones who have had little formal schooling, because of Relief Society, are in the forefront of all the fine development that goes to enrich our lives here and hereafter, I've always been grateful that women of other religious groups were most welcome as members, ERRATUM: on page 86 of the February Magazine, in the list of wards having sent in their building fund quotas, the Beaver Ward was listed as being in Beaver Stake, Utah.
This is a mistake and the line should have read: Beaver Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah).