[Joanna—Chapter 9 by Margery S. Stewart]

Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 9
Synopsis: Joanna, widowed when her children were small, courageously works into a profitable business selling Bostonbaked beans and bakery goods. Her neighbor, Abigail Smith, as a partner, gives much hard work and good advice. Joanna, placing the welfare of her children first, buys a comfortable home from Kent Taylor, a writer, acting temporarily as a real estate agent. In order to attend a P. T. A., meeting, Joanna breaks a date with Kent before he leaves town.
Joanna and Abigail open a number of new shops and Joanna finds her life enriched with many new friends and the abiding love of her children. Kent Taylor returns from an assignment in Europe and asks Joanna to marry him. BIGAIL brought in the Monday breakfast of scrambled eggs and Sunday's leftover rolls, toasted. She eyed Joanna's unfinished orange juice, and guiltily Joanna drank it. "You need it, all the gallivantin' you're doing.
Wreck your health. That's what you'll do. Won't be able to travel come Wednesday, be planesick."
Joanna flushed. "I'm engaged, Abigail. An engaged woman doesn't just sit in a corner and sew."
Abigail nodded and passed salt and pepper to Joanna. "He certainly ain't one to do his courtin' in the front parlor. Doesn't he believe in homes?"
Joanna ate her toast without butter. "He likes to go places, and he knows so many people. There's only another two days until our wedding, then we'll be out from underfoot and you can run the house the way you want it."  "And after your marriage will you be settlin' down?" "Why " Joanna paused and stared into space. "I'll settle down, until he gets back, and then I think Pll never know what each day holds, Abigail. 'They'll be like Christmas packages, a surprise in every one." She lifted her fork and put it down. "That's what it has been like for me, with Kent here. Christmas.
Every day there have been silver and ribbons and holly and parties... By the way, we're having an extra, super party tomorrow night, Kent's sister is giving it. You're invited. I think I'll get a new dress for it, a white dinner dress and highheeled, gold slippers."
Abigail snapped her fingers. "I knew there was something I had plumb forgot. Penny. She wants a new dress."
Joanna lifted her brows. "TI just bought her a wardrobe."
Abigail looked pained. "If you would stop going through us as though we were smoke, you would find out something about your family...
Something like Penny is in love." "Penny? She's a baby!"
Abigail said paticntly, "Sixteen is no baby. The child drifts around like a zombie. Tom. Tom. That's all I hear. She wants a black satin creation she saw downtown." "Black satin? At sixteen?"
Abigail patted her beautiful hair. "She's afraid she's not grown up enough.
Thinks she needs some fixin' up for this Tom person."
609 OANNA TOse and gathered UP her times l can' believe at Wwe are dishes, "Bles the child 80ing to be Matried, hat I'm not know What [']] do. [I] call the £0ing to Walk al] alone Into the School ang tell them | want her to years ahead. Oh, Kent I love you meet me downtown °n important so." uSINess, Wey] Zo shopping, Penny "Not as Much as love you. And J, for something Teally SWishy You'te al] I have. You're, | - My and 4ppropriate." World." Fe drew P before her It seemeq Joanna C everyhouse 'TI call for yoy tomorrow thing that happened hese days a "round eight. Y Sister has taken sumed Pecia] j Portance, Jy the town 'Patt for food nd flowers.
Meant a new fale to tel] & for |. It's 80ing to be nice," his deep nterest and his laughter. "T can hardly wait." She lifted her She told about th SROpping face for his kiss. "Tomorrow hight, €xPeditio ent." "You should have been here darling was funny, Pe € bathroom door, "Penny, do hur f glamoroys dress, and Myself, bein vi ly. I'm SUPPosed to € Teady by eight." > Very Young -Point-of Penny's hig View and Patient ang tactful] tryin t her j h, clear Voice, "But Other, J have to be Teady by eight, to buying Something too, and | can't get m hair night," young and becomin "Fix it in your room." Who won He reacheg for her €€p sich of resignation, « h, hand,. All right, Mother." bathroom Joanna ¢ uckled ruefully, «A door Opened and Penny came out.
Would say. Sh did get a simp anna caught her breath. The li Te. _Dlack vely feen with White Stick had done Something for p mny, collar an ffs and her first liptaken her Out of childhood, into stick, the myster land Where young Kent sated with laughter C girls live. The bright color brou Sanna's d May, " t she's wa Out the beauty Of the Clear, childish und Ost girls in the matter skin, the brown fyes, the dar cloud lipstick, of her hair swinging sukily on her "This is the first tiny she's want shoulders, © 8'own-up, Oh, Kent, It's anna felt 4 sudden shynesg beard to let them go," ore this ] ely stranger, She Wished © furned out avoid a truck, cetingly, that she could run back "That's What I'm ere for. En the past ang find again the lit your children have Paid you by tle gir] Penny. § lly, with her curly 501g away I'll stil be around, Onde hair ang her big blue eyes, We two. Ni lonely not lonely, Would he Pretty, byt She would ever." "ever own he Ister's Cet, dark She Caught her breath and turn loveliness Penn tohim, « me look q you. § SELECTED DATA "Kent . . . I can't go." She drew him with her into the kitchen and explained.

He waited patiently until she had finished, but she saw the friendliness going colder and the sharp lines that came when he was angry sprung up on his forehead.

"Can't you come with me, and let the youngsters have their own party?"

"No. No, Kent. I have to stay here . . . see that it is a success. A terrific success. So they will want to meet here, again and again. It has to be more fun than the 'Green Lady,' or any of those places."

HE slapped his hat against his side. "Second place. I'll always take second place to the children. I'll be glad when we are back East, so I can have you to myself for awhile."

Joanna straightened her shoulders. She felt bowed to the earth under the weight of this burden, and though Kent stood before her, she was already lonely, the chill of it on her heart. "I'm not going back East with you, Kent. I can't leave Penny now."

He dropped his hat and put his hands on her shoulders. He shook her. "Not going with me? What stupid thing is this? Of course you're going with me! I need you. 'Penny needs me.'"

"You promised you would come."

He dropped his hands. "Joanna, you can't give your life to your children. Your whole life. You have a right to happiness."

Joanna said heavily, "Only if it doesn't interfere with their lives. Oh, Kent, believe me, this is hard to say. But you don't really need me, not as Penny does. There wouldn't be a moment of peace for me. This is my job."

He said savagely, "Your job! What pay will it give you? They'll leave you, Joanna. Every one of them will leave you. Penny is going now. She's running away into her own life. You can't stop her."

"No," Joanna said. "I wouldn't want to stop her. But I must help her into the kind of life that will be rich and rewarding. Oh, I've heard about interfering mothers. I've read that we have no right to interfere in our children's lives, but I don't believe it. Should I spend sixteen years perfecting a thing of beauty and then close my eyes while the world takes over? Did I leave her alone when she learned to walk, or did I help? She's in love, Kent. To go away and leave her alone now would be like giving her a stick of dynamite to play with, hoping she wouldn't find matches."

Kent picked up his hat. He said wearily, "I can see that staying would be utterly useless, and talking even more so." He looked about him. "A home. Well, I'll be too busy for a home for a long time to come."

Joanna watched him go, his head held arrogantly and high. Then she turned and went heavily upstairs. She took off the gold slippers and the white jersey gown and found a blue dress and an apron. Penny was waiting alone for the return of Tom and the gang.

Joanna went to her and held her close, feeling Penny stiffen against her. "It's going to be all right, Penny. Believe me. It's going to be all right."

(To be continued)