[Martha, Papoose of the Great Spirit by James C. Young]

Martha, Papoose of the Great Spirit A TRUuE Story James C. Young T was the summer of 1861, and | to Martha Granger Young, wife of William Goodall Young of Grantsville, it seemed unbearably hot in the dirt-floored cabin, but she had been gone so long tending the wounded Indian and chattering with old Sister Davis she couldn't stop to step outside for a breath of air.
William would be coming to dinner any minute.
Perspiration rolled off her temples as she slowed her bread kneading and reached over to stir the wild mustard greens on the stove. 'Then she caught the perspiration with a corner of her apron and quickly resumed kneading. A few more punches and the dough was gathered in a smooth, flattened roll in the bottom of the pan. She laid a clean white cloth over it and set it on a chair close to the stove. It must rise again as soon as possible and be ready so that she could pinch and cut off some to fry for William's dinner. She lifted the teakettle to check whether or not it was full. It was nearly empty, and she filled it with the last water in the bucket and stepped out through the door under the willow-covered shade that William had built for her. She was the only woman in Grantsville whose husband had been thoughtful enough to erect such a shade. A great surge of gratitude rushed over her as she plunged the bucket into the lizard-mounted barrel* and stepped back over the threshold.
William was good to her.
Only last week he had brought her two yards of curtain material from the city to hang over the new window he had cut in the west wall. She put the bucket on the wood box, which also served as washstand, and with a careful, almost reverent hand, adjusted the curtain so that the two sides were more neatly the same in shape.
Going back to the door, she looked out and calculated the time from the position of the shadow cast by one of the posts supporting the shade roof. She judged the time to be nearly one o'clock. William, punctual whenever possible, was late today. A shadow of fear flitted into her bosom, but she quickly expelled it.
Surely the Indians would not have come raiding again so soon after having been so severely beaten only a little over three weeks ago. No, William was probably having trouble with the new ditch the men had made that spring. The ditchbank had not had time to settle and sod down yet, and one clay point had given trouble all spring. Or Note: A lizard was two logs hewed flat on the bottom and laid on the ground as skids or runners, with short pieces of planking nailed across them to form a platform on which a sixty gallon wooden barrel was mounted. To this a horse was hitched and it was pulled to a ditch or stream and filled with water and then pulled back to the house. It was in many cases the pioneer water system.  606 pethaps someone had come to see the bishop about some matter that needed William's immediate attention. | Maybe she would have time to start sprinkling the floor. If she could get the bed end of the room done before William came _ that would be that much of her afternoon work finished. She lifted one end of the bed and set it over a little and then the other the same until she had uncovered the full width of the bed. She poured some water into the washdish and, going to the corner, she stooped down and splashed the water with her hand out of the dish onto the floor.
When she had all the area the bed usually covered well wet down, she checked the condition of the greens on the back of the stove and cast an appraising eye at her dough. In a few minutes it would be ready for the dripper. At one end of the stove a board about twenty inches long and six inches wide leaned against the wall.
With this she patted and pounded the dampened piece of floor until the surface looked as smooth and hard as stone. She carefully replaced the bed and smoothed and pounded the wet clay where the bed legs had disturbed it. She next cleared the remainder of that end of the room of its chair and a cupboard made from a large wooden dry goods box and sprinkled and pounded the dirt there.: TILL William did not come. A _ little nagging worry lay on her mind; but it was time to put the bread in the dripper. She cleared  the table top, sprinkled it sparingly with flour, cut off a piece of dough from that in the pan, placed it upon the table, and expertly rolled and kneaded it into a loaf.
Then she realized she had not warmed nor greased the dripper. She was hungry, but she would not stop to fry a cake now. She preferred to eat with William. She ladled a little soft deer fat from a bottle into the dripper and set the dripper on the stove.
Working close by the stove, she began now to perspire freely again. A little drop escaped her frantically catching hand to land in the hot grease and cause an instant spattering which caught her before she could remove her hand.
Several spots began to pain severely.
While the bread baked Martha worried, and dampened and pounded the rest of the floor, with water dripping off her nose continually. It seemed to her the bread should almost bake without being in the oven, but there was a dampness in the air also. She hated to cut the fresh bread but she did cut off two large slices which she spread with deer fat and with black molasses and wrapped in a cloth. The sky seemed to be low and very black but there was no letup to the heat.
Donning her denim bonnet, she carried her cape, pieced from leg backs of William's wornout trousers, in one hand and the hot bread in the other, and hurried up the street to the tithing office, casting fearful glances at the black sky and worried glances down the road toward the field.
Where is William?
What can be keeping him? She wondered. | She still -had a half 'block to go MARTHA, PAPOOSE OF THE GREAT SPIRIT when a sudden jab of lightning zigzagged out of the black clouds just ahead of her and had hardly faded before the thunder hit her ears. Nor had the echoes quit ringing before the rain began to pelt down furiously.
Martha lifted her skirts and ran.
William knew she was terribly afraid of lightning, surely he would soon come now, if he was all right. The tithing office door swung open for her, and she ran into the room. It was dark there and when her eyes had adjusted themselves, she looked to see who had opened the door.
William stood behind the door grinning at her. She was suddenly happy.
William was all right.. "But why are you here? Why didn't you come to dinner?" she demanded. "I knew your patient would like some meat, so I brought him some prairie dogs I had drowned out. I also knew you wouldn't like to cook them.
Your patient and I roasted them over a fire here. He is much better today and was glad to be able to get outside." "But he shouldn't walk yet." She turned to the brave, lying on sheepskins in one corner. "You shouldn't 607 walk. Too quick, make bad, heap hurt." "No hurt, me good, me walk, soon go."
Martha handed him the bread. The Indian took it and ate it slowly, watching Martha much as a dog watches a boy tossing it pieces of meat. Then, seeing there was no more bread, he took a curiously designed feathered headdress off a wall peg and handed it to Martha. "Squaw bring, white squaw you keep, no Indian hurt squaw. You papoose Great Spirit. You keep, no Indian hurt." 3 _ The rain had stopped and it was cooler, and as Martha walked homeward beside William she was thankful he was safe and that her patient would soon be well enough to' go back to his people. "Martha," said William, "you have made a lifelong friend. Our bullets knocked him down; you have brought him back to health. That Indian alive will be the strongest message we could possibly send to his people. I don't think we will have any more Indian trouble. Did you understand what he meant by 'You Great Spirit Papoose?' He thinks you are a daughter of the Great Spirit, or God. And you truly are," Wind | Helen Gee Woods Wind— And the roaring of wind Over the green valley; The corn and the wheat ripple in wind.
There is an ocean of wind-tossed spray Deep down from the mountaintop, Blowing 'silver over and over The bounteous green crop, Sighing through, waving through, And back again to the peak.: The day is over; _ I am the wind's child! —_ I fall asleep.