[Vol1 | December 1914 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Art | Title: Art and Architecture]

ART AND ARCHITECTURE.
Our Own John Hafen. "And all mine are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in them." Words of Christ.
Native Country.
Conversion to Mormonism.
Acceptance of the Word of Wisdom in youth.
Trials of poverty and hunger.
Ideal of himself and wife.
Devotion to his "calling." Sudden death on the threshold of success and recognition.
Reference: Young Woman's Journal, February, 1910.
John Haf ftn, by Alice Herrill Home also Devotees and Their; Shrines, 41-49.
Not all individuals meet fame quickly, but Time will immortalize the truly great, eventually.
The constructive type (such as Hafen) will be remembered.
The scale of greatness depends upon the measure of soul-sympathy.
When you study Hafen 's art for sympathy you learn where to place him. "Home in Springville" and "Corn Fields," pages 41-45, offer two paintings in which even the layman may discover the  quality of sympathy artists call it feeling.
Here everything is built around the thought of home, and the feeling of home permeates the whole scheme.
The home essence that Hafen idealized is lofty, dignified, simple, humble.
Now these beautiful pictures did not just happen, but they sprung from Hafen's heart, experience, thought, study, and they have feeling because they reflect the inner life of a great soul.
They could not have feeling if they were photographs from even a beautiful scene.
Open your books, compare these pictures with a photograph until you discover for yourself the difference between art and commercial pictures.
Feeling is the greatest quality a picture can have.
It can not be made, but it comes without effort from the gifted.
There are other Utah artists who paint . 15 paint for us with feeling, but our dear Hafen can never again, so it is well for us now to understand what he has done.
I hope his lessons are not in vain, nor his heroism and fidelity forgotten by us.
We are glad Hafen has sons.
Speed them on blest, for theirs their toilsome pathway of art.
They are doubly also is the gift of a sympathetic mother.
The State Fair shows by one of Hafen sons but if he would achieve, he, canvases 's too, must begin humbly and keep his humility.
Tell of John Hafen 's life. ' (a) (b) Describe his qualities of heart. (c) What can you say of his devotion to art? (d) What influence did Brigham Young exert on him? (e) How did Hafen find his gift? (f ) Have you found yours? (g) Why was he true to his gift? (h) Why are you seeking to be loyal to yourself and what God hath given you? (i) If you are not making the most of you not? (j) What could you do to better realize yourself? (k) What could you do for another to foster his or ' her talents? (1) Name some of the talented people in your neighbor m) What is a talent or gift, and whence (Foot note As this is John Hafen 's day. : endeavor to have as many pictures by that artist as you can hang the Relief m Society hall during the lesson.)