[Vol55 | March 1968 | Page 172 | Special Feature | Knowledge of Greatest Worth Mary | V. Cameron]
They contain the knowledge of greatest worth, which points the way back to his presence. These are the books from which the Lord said, "I will judge the world." It would seem, then, of great value to us to read the words of these books. In fact, we have been given the command to study them diligently, "Search the scriptures." (John 5:39.) The Bible was said by one renowned scholar to be "the most exciting book in the world." It has had a more profound influence for good upon mankind than any other book. Much of the world's greatest art, music, and literature is inspired by the Bible. Little wonder that it is called the "Book of Books." In the Bible is found the story of the creation as told by the great Creator himself, "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth" (Gen. 1:1), and again, "God created man in his own image." (Gen. 1:27.) These are among the greatest declarations of all time. Instructions of infinite worth to the whole world come to us in the Decalogue or the Ten Commandments—the great code of ethics written at Sinai by the finger of God. Should the people of the world abide by these rules of conduct, all of the troubles of the world would be solved. The message of the Old Testament is that God is the great Creator of the earth and Father of all people, and that his Son Jesus the Christ, the Redeemer, would some day come and live among men. Knowledge of Greatest Worth In the meridian of time the birth of the Savior was announced. This is the greatest story ever told, and one which everyone should become _ acquainted with in earliest childhood—to be followed by the account of his exemplary life and sublime teachings. If we had but one simple teaching, "Do unto others as ye would that they should do unto you," and lived it, all of the ills of this troubled world would melt away and love would abound instead of hatred. The account of the Savior's death and resurrection brings to the world its greatest hope. The Prophet Joseph Smith said that the Bible means good and the Book of Mormon means more good. (Smith, Joseph Fielding, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Salt Lake City, Deseret News Press, page 300.) With the coming forth of this book, other knowledge of worth comes to us. Here is a "marvelous work and a wonder" and *,. As your Lord and your God liveth it is true." (D&C 17:6). Its greatest message is to the "convincing of the Jew and Gentile that JESUS is the CHRIST, the ETERNAL GOD, manifesting himself unto all nations." (Book of Mormon, title page). What more needed knowledge could come to a doubting and apostate generation? The Doctrine and Covenants was given especially to this, the last dispensation. It comes as a voice of warning and cry for repentance. What could be more vital as teaching and application in our world than the Word of Wisdom? 

173 March 1968

 The Lord knew there would be "evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days." (D&C Section 89:4.) The most glorious of all revelations comes as Section 76 of the Doctrine and Covenants. The testimony is given that the Son lives 'For we saw him, even on the right hand of God." (D&C 76:23.) In this section is also outlined the future status of all the inhabitants of the earth— whether telestial, terrestrial, or celestial, according to worthiness. Where will we find our place? To every Relief Society sister and to every woman, I would urge the study of these scriptures in the homes. God has given no gifts greater than these. We owe it to ourselves and to our chilTO A NEW CHILD Marilyn McMeen Miller Gem in blue, Sprig of heaven: Apples have lost their blossoms in your face, You touch your lips with fingers,
