Gifts By Susan T. Jennings If I had choice Of all the gifts God gives to womanhood, To me the gift Of all transcendent, Would be my priceless Motherhood. Let's Go Places By Mabel S. Harmer ALL I want is sociability Some one to be sociable with me" may seem at first glance to convey the utmost frivolity, but let's take a second look. Sociability may not be all we want, but surely a well balanced social side to' one's nature is very desirable. It is said that we gain something from every person we meet. It follows then that it is to our advantage to contact a consistently large number of the right kind of people. I believe a valuable part of our religious gatherings comes after the services are over and Mr. And Mrs. Jones stop to exchange a friendly greeting with the Smith's and inquire after Johnny's mumps and whether the party last week was a success. Some one recently said to a lively young matron, "You and your husband certainly do step out, don't you?" She replied that they did and that they intended to do so for years yet. They figured that old age would be time enough to sit at home by the fireside. For the present they intended to cultivate their friends. Let me not for a moment infer that home should be neglected for social ties. I trust that no woman after reading this will say, "Ah, I have only been going out three afternoons a week. I shall now go four." There is a happy medium for all things. It is possible for a mother to give ner home and family proper care and still have time for outside interests. Three of the most outstanding women in the church and community today are the mothers of seven, nine and twelve children respectively and. All are superior children. It is possible that occasionally one of them has had to sew on a button for himself or be depended upon to wash his own neck clean but apparently there nas been little suffering from so doing. I know a woman who at the sacrifice of much time and pleasure keeps an immaculate house. It is a thing of beauty. That it will be a joy forever, I very much question. It is likely that in the years to come she will feel that life should have held more for her than a gleaming house. I am sure her children will feel so. I can well imagine that twenty years hence Johnny Jones will not say with a thrill of pride in his voice, "My mother always kept her mop boards shining." While on the other hand he may be very proud to say as he passes the Art Barn, "My mother nelped to build that." Children want a mother whom they and their associates can admire. A recent magazine editorial says, "It is psychologically necessary that children should feel proud of their mother." It is quite possible that a mother's full duty is not done when children are merely fed, clothed and given their cod liver oil. They need a mental stimulation which she can best give them by having interests outside of the home. Man does not live by bread alone and perhaps children do not. I HAVE heard more than one mother remark that after her children are grown she intends to turn to other interests. It will be too late then. She will not know how. What a pathetic object a woman is, 602 who in her own family circle listens in a bewildered manner to the kaleidoscopic interests of the day without being able to share in the discussions. She is still more pathetic when her brood suddenly takes flight and she is left with time on her hands and no idea of what to do with it. A most interesting phase of modern times is the increasing number of mothers who take University extension classes, some even going back to school to be graduated with the youngest of their children. Let me reiterate that home and family come first and should never be neglected for other interests. But aren't they better served by the added richness which comes into the mother's life by contacts with her fellowmen. After all, it is she who sets tne standards of family life. More than one man who thought he had married a companion has awakened to find that he has married only a housekeeper. By social life, I do not mean, of course, incessant card playing as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE some people's social life has come to be. There is nothing very sociable in four people with their heads bent together over a card table. Usually any conversation foreign to that of the game is excessively frowned upon. It is rather deplorable that so many parties nowadays have come to mean nothing else. It takes a little more ingenuity on the part of the hostess to plan entertainment. The easy thing, of course, is to wash her hands of her guests, figuratively speaking and put them down at card tables. The hostess is daring indeed who relies on her guests' conversation for their entertainment and still my own experience has been that the most delightful part of an evening comes when the formal part of the entertainment is over and the guests are allowed simply to talk. Let's go places and meet people? providing, of course, they are the right places and the right people. It's much more fun to go out and talk to them than to stay at home and read about them.