The Universal Fruit By Lucy Rose Middleton HO can say how long before the coming of the white man to America the native crab apple blossomed and bore fruit in nature's orcnard? Our history books tell us that in 1629 a governor of the. Massachusetts Bay Colony brought over from Europe the first seedlings of cultivated apples. The apple industry has flournished greatly, for today the United States is the largest: apple-growing country of the world. The annual production is 169 million bushels. Washington, the biggest apple producing state, contributes from 32-35 million bushels. The varieties are too numerous to mention. There are now at least two thousand different ones. New kinds are continually being produced from seeds; but since the apple is chiefly propagated by grafting, these new varieties are frequently engrafted on the old trees. More apples are consumed today than ever before. The modern cook has added greatly to the dried apple pie and applesauce. Utilized in puddings, pies, fritters, salads or fancy desserts, canned, preserved, pickled; made into marmalade, jelly or jam; baked, stewed or raw, the apple is the housewife's unfailing friend. Fresh Apple Pie 6-8 sour apples %-34 cup white or brown sugar 4 teaspoon grated nutmeg or cinnamon 4 teaspoon salt % tablespoon butter 2 teaspoons lemon juice Few gratings lemon rind Line pie plate with pastry. Pare, core, and cut apples in eighths, put row around plate one-half inch from edge, and work toward center until plate is covered; then pile on the remainder. Mix sugar, nutmeg, salt, lemon juice and grated rind, and sprinkle over the apples. Dot with butter. Wet edges of under crust, cover with upper crust, and press edges together. Bake in a moderate oven for 40-45 minutes. Dried apples, soaked over night in cold water may be used in place of the fresh fruit. Apple Sauce Cake Y% cup butter 1 cup sugar 1 cup cold, unsweetened apple sauce 1 teaspoon soda 1 cup raisins and nuts, cut in pieces 1 teaspoon cinnamon Y%2 teaspoon powdered cloves 2 cups flour Cream butter, add sugar gradually. Add soda to apple sauce and add to butter and sugar. Add other ingredients and bake in buttered and floured pan 40 minutes in moderate oven (350? F.). Hot Spiced Cider Mix 2 quarts sweet cider, 14% cup brown sugar, 3 small sticks cinnamon, 2 whole cloves, 1 nutmeg (grated), and % teaspoon salt. Boil ten minutes. Dutch Apple Cake 2 cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powder ?Y, teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon sugar 34 cup milk THE UNIVERSAL FRUIT Mix dry ingredients, sift twice, work in butter with pastry blender, fork, or finger tips, and add milk gradually. Spread 84 inch thick in buttered round or oblong pan. Cover top with wedge-shaped slices of apples, pressing thin edge into dough. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Bake in moderate oven (350? F.). Serve with hard sauce, or lemon sauce, Hard Sauce 1/3 cup butter 1 cup confectioner's sugar or 3/4, cup granulated sugar 1/3 teaspoon lemon extract 2/3 teaspoon vanilla Cream butter, add sugar gradually, while beating constantly. Add flavoring. Lemon Sauce 1/2 cup sugar 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 cup boiling water 2 tablespoons butter 1 1/2 tablespoons lemon juice Few gratings nutmeg Few grains salt Mix sugar and cornstarch, add water gradually, stirring constantly; boil 5 minutes, remove from fire, add butter, lemon juice, nutmeg and salt. Apple Dumplings 2 cups flour 1/4 cup sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder ? teaspoon salt 1 egg 1/3 cup shortening Applesauce Mix dry ingredients and sift twice, work in shortening with tips of fingers, add egg well beaten and milk. Roll out one-fourth inch thick and cut pieces about four inches square. In the center of each piece place half a cooked apple or one table spoon of applesauce. Sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg and double the dough around the apples, pinching the edges together. Put in greased baking pan and bake for 30 minutes at 425 degrees. As soon as the dumplings begin to brown, baste with syrup made by boiling 4 cup sugar, 1/2 cup water and a few grains nutmeg together for 3 minutes. Serve with whipped cream or a vanilla satice. Stuffed Apple Salad Take an apple for each service; pare and remove all the seed cavity from the center. For six apples make a syrup of one cup sugar and 1 1/2 cup water; add a speck of red color paste and the juice of one lemon or an orange. In this syrup cook the apples until tender. Let cool in liquid. To serve, set in nest of lettuce or a bed of snredded lettuce. Fill the center with salad dressing mixed with one-half cup pecan nut meat, cut fine, six halves of pears cut in small pieces, and one-half cup sliced celery.