Notes to the Field Theological Course HEN the Savior showed 'himself. To his disciples the third time on the shores of Galilee, he took bread and fish and gave to them. After they had dined he said to Peter, "Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these?' He saith unto him, 'Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee." "Feed my lambs," said the Savior. Twice again he asked the question, and to Peter's reply he said, "Feed my sheep." not bread and fishes but the bread of life eternal. Down through the ages has come the message of Carist, crucified and resurrected for our salvation. In many ways have his words, "Feed my sheep" been exemplified. To the Latter-day Saints has come more definite word regarding the way of light and truth. We are told we must search for truth; for truth makes men free. One of our doctrines is: "It is impossible to be saved in ignorance," that is, in By this the Lord meant ignorance of the things of God. We, therefore, believe it to be the paramount mission of the Church to enlighten its membership in those things; to follow the divine commandment given to Peter, "Feed my sheep." Our latter day scriptures bring great joy and strength and assists us in keeping that command. The Taeological Department of the Relief Society is an agent in furthering this work. This coming year we go still further into the study of the 'Doctrine and Covenants" with its glorious truths; so that the testimonies of the mothers in Israel may be strengthened, and greater faith in the Father, The Son, and Joseph Smith be obtained. 'This study will give us more background to intelligently plant in the hearts of our children everlasting truths. We are the sheep of the Divine Flockmaster and the bread of life is those truths that lead to supreme joy and 'happiness in this world and life everlasting in the world to come. Literary Course T is indeed gratifying to note the increased interest in the educational department of the Relief Society work. The literary lessons alone have been so attractive that many women are seeking admittance to these classes who never before had taken particular interest in the organization. Our women are beginning to realize that a rare opportunity heretofore desired of gaining knowledge of the highest order is now open to them without cost; knowledge equal to a college course in advanced literature. The new outline for the coming year is especially attractive. It is rich in history and full of delightful reading. Each lesson complete in itself incites one to further pursuit and desire to drink deeper of the fountain of learning. HE title "Life and Literature" has been given to the course of study in literature because it has been planned to meet the objective of the educational program of the Relief Society?To bring a fuller understanding of Life to the Latter-day Saint woman. The spirit of the course is best expressed in the statement, Literature has recorded what Man has thought and felt as with Ulysses-like courage NOTES TO he has continued through the ages "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield" in his quest for an understanding of Life. The lesson units of the study have been planned to present a view of human progress and an interpretation of that great realm of human experience that never changes?love and hate, hope and fear, motives and impulses, joys and griefs. The literary materials of the units have been chosen for their human appeal, their beauty of expression, and their power to touch us in an intimate way. THE FIELD 609 The lessons themselves as printed in the Relief Society Journal constitute the text book of the course of study. The supplementary text book, "The Story of the World's Literature,' by Jonn Macy, supplies an adequate background for the study in a condensed yet informal manner. The message of the course is embodied in the words of "The Chambered Nautilus'? "T hear a voice that sings:? Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll!" Teachers' Topic A NEW? era is being born and with the birth there is pain and fear and struggle. The teachers' topic aims to help with this struggle in every home, to the end that the new day shall bring better conditions and satisfactory adjustments. To this end it encourages faith in God, faith in one another and faith in one's self. It directs attention to the great purpose of life and endeavors to show a few guiding lights along the way. Our president, Louise Y. Robison, said recently, "What we need most is courage to face what is just ahead of us." The teachers' topic aims to help each one to meet the responsibilities of the hour with courage. It aims to help each family to uphold real fundamental values in life, to hope anew when overtaken by disappointment. It encourages gratitude, for one's real wealth may' be measured by ability to appreciate. The teachers' topic aims to light the spark of cheerfulness in hearts bowed down. The humblest cot may be a paradise if cheerfulness prevails. What happens to us matters so much less than how we take it. Attitude conditions the weight of the burden. It aims to build character and pre- - serve an atmosphere of peace by selfcontrol. It seeks to help each one to forget his own troubles, through consideration for others. Tears dry soonest in the eyes that see another's pain." In short the great purpose of the teachers' topic is to make more understanding and sympathetic wives, more efficient mothers, more happy homes, better neighbors and more useful citizens. It will further the wish of President Roosevelt that "A united nation banish all fears and face the sunrise of a new day with courage and with trust in God." Teachers will do their part in this great day. Social Service Course OW think ye? If a man have an hundred sheep, and one of them be gone astray, doth he not leave the ninety and nine, and goeth into the mountains, and seeketn that which is gone astray? 610 "And if so be that he find it, verily I say unto you, he rejoiceth more of that sheep, than of the ninety and nine which went not astray. "Even so, it is not the will of your Father which is in heaven, that one of these little ones should perish."? Matt. 18:12-14. The big objective in the course of social service lessons is that not one child shall perish for lack of proper care and development. The thought in planning them is to fortify the mother rather than give her problems she cannot solve. We are all quite aware that our modern conditions of living have brought many marked changes that seriously affect the conditions under which the child develops. These conditions are challenging to our whole social system and to parents in particular. Definite educational aims have been given with reference to the cnild as a whole and stress has been put on his mental growth, his emotional adjustment and social relationship as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE well as on his physical growth and fundamental health habits. It is being recognized on all sides that the child is mucn more than something to be fed, bathed and clothed. He is an individual with a personality to be developed. He has inherent limitations which must be recognized as well as capabilities which must be provided for and brought to the fullest by the educational process. Some of the most intelligent parents who have studied the more generally known principles of child care are recognizing their inability to cope with certain other problems, particularly those of social development. The greatest contribution our leaders can make to the development of the American boy or girl is the projection of thought towards future citizenship and a knowledge of the responsibility of every individual to mold the character of our national life through a successful home. Mothers will you accept the challenge? Our Cover HE cover is a water color painting of the Hayden Fork Road at Summit near Mirror Lake. The mountain in the distance is Hayden Peak, 12,500 feet. At the base of this mountain the boy scouts have their camp, where they find all the joys of the great out-of-doors. There are 115 lakes in this section. From this point the head waters of the Weber, Bear, Provo and Duchesne Rivers all start. These high Uintah Mountains rise more than 13,000 feet. They have so far resisted the advance of the automobile. This is one of the few wilderness regions of America where. The traveler must go on foot or with saddle horse and pack trains, as did the pioneers of early days. The high Uintah's primitive area contains 243,957 acres in the Wasatch and Ashley National Forests, and extends along the crest of the Uintah Mountains from Mirror Lake region eastward to King's Peak, which is 13,498 feet, the highest in the state of Utah. This is a region of abounding charm and beauty. Perennial snow banks with the charm of shifting light and shade on these lofty mountains. HE painting on the front page shows a beautiful water-fall at the head waters of the beautiful Provo River, up in the Granddaddy Lake district.