Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke VIII. RENOVATING AND PAINTING FURNITURE HILE most of us are more or less interested in new furniture and how to choose it, there are perhaps only a few that will be buying an entirely new outfit for their homes, or even a piece or two, especially in these times of depression. The real problem, then, is what to do with the furniture we already have to make it more harmonious with the new scheme, or more lovely in appearance. Every home has a few pieces of furriiture that do not seem to fit, the cast-offs in attic or store room. Then there are the "hand-me-downs" from mother or grandmother?perhaps real antiques, but more often just misfits, some relics from the "Black Walnut Age," or the period of "Golden Oak" or, more recently, Mission furniture, not either appropriate or desirable as they are, but too good to discard. When we compare our own accumulation of furniture with that seen in model homes and in magazines we are often discouraged, but there is truly an enormous satisfaction in redecorating a room with such furniture. You'll be amazed at what you can do if you really make an effort. In considering the question of rejuvenation the first thought is usually painting, and, if your budget will not permit of the purchase of new furniture, the paint brush will often provide another royal road to home beautification. Painted furniture is a valuable asset in decoration. It is the oldest of all known furniture, dating back even to the days of the Pharaohs in Egypt and to the Early Greek and Pompeiian civilizations. Beautiful painted and polychromed pieces of those early periods can be seen in our museums today. Down through the centuries every great art period has Jeft to us lovely painted pieces that furnish inspiration for present-day designers. Among such pieces we find Italian, French and German 590 chests, the delightful furniture of the 18th Century, including that of Chippendale, Sheraton, and Hepplewhite in England, the lovely green and gold or ivory and gold furniture of Louis XV and Louis XVI in France, and the charming Venetian furniture, which with its exquisite colorings and designs of strange birds, flowers and landscapes reflected the spirit of that people. And from China came the inspiration of lacquered furniture, some of which has never been surpassed in decorative charm. From all countries there comes painted and decorated Peasant furniture which may be very successfully imitated in our own homes. Such furniture is Dutch Peasant, Italian Abruzzi, French, Normandy, German Biedermeier, and Early American furniture including such pieces as Windsor, Hitchcock and ladderback chairs, and Hadley and Pennsylvania chests. When one realizes the importance painted furniture has played in interior decoration for centuries one is more ready to give it the care and place it deserves in our homes, rather than feel that painting furniture is an evil resorted to only when necessary. In the modern home painted furniture should receive a hearty welcome as it offers the homemaker not only an opportunity to reclaim old pieces, but to carry out her own color ideas in the decoration of her home. Because it thus combines beauty and practicality it should be used to a greater extent. If painting is done correctly it can be distinctive and charming. THE first step to take is to analyze carefully the piece of furniture to be painted or remodeled, its lines, the wood of which it is made, and its ornamentation. Paint cannot cover up bad lines or unfortunate design. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE It is simply a pleasing way of attaining variety in furniture. Simple lines and few decorations are the most desirable, so remove all superfluous hardware, too ornate carvings, glued-on decorations, elaborate supports, expressionless curved bracketing, and the old finish. You are then ready to begin. Choose an undisturbed spot free from dust, wear old clothes and have plenty of materials at hand with which to work, rags, papers, sandpaper, scrapets, turpentine, rubbing felt, etc. Use a reliable brand of paint and a good brush. It is never good business to put on cheap paint as it will not only not last as long, but the cost of refinishing on such a surface is higher. Be sure to use the product for what it is intended. Skimping is false economy, use the number of coats needed or specified. Before starting to paint be sure the surface is clean. On old furniture it is best to wash it with a solution of washing soda to take off any grease and dirt. Then be sure it is thoroughly dry before painting. Remove the old surface if it is peeled, cracked or otherwise in bad condition. If paint remover is used to take off the old finish be sure it is all removed (with alcohol or benzine) before painting or it will eat through the fresh coat. Wax may be removed with gasoline and steel wool. Sandpaper thoroughly, and fill holes with putty or wood filler. Remember a smooth foundation is necessary for a successful finish. This preparatory work is not very interesting and is often slighted, but is necessary for the desired result. Follow directions on cans carefully. Let each coat dry thoroughly before putting on the next. A good brush is economy and insures a better job, but it must be cleaned after using and hung up to keep the bristles YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL straight. A large surface such as a headboard of a bed, or front of a dresser drawer should be in a horizontal position while being painted to prevent runs and sags. Set small articles on a table or stand to prevent stooping. WHEN the surface has been prepared there are a number of finishes you can use. Lacquer is very satisfactory as it has a tough durable surface, beautiful soft luster, not apt to crack or mar, stands extremes in temperature and is easily cleaned. It is easiest applied with a spray, especially on wicker furniture, although a brush will do if you have a good deal of patience. Keep the brush full and brush quickly with long, straight strokes, making laps quickly. Don't brush back. A second coat must be applied rapidly before it softens the first coat. Before applying lacquer on new wood it is desirable to seal with a coat of thin shellac.; For an enamel finish the following, although apparently a lot of trouble and an involved proceeding, is a fool-proof method and will give your articles that satiny sheen so much sought after, but seldom achieved in "home-made" painting. Apply a first coat of flat paint of the desired shade (always with the grain of the wood). Dry 48 hours, paint with a very light coat of boiled linseed oil and sand lightly with No. 00 sandpaper. Dust and dry. For the second and following coats this formula is good: Mix 50% flat paint and 40% enamel of the desired shade, 7% varnish and 3% Japan dryer. Strain. Apply three to five coats. The early painters of fine furniture often used as many as six or eight coats, each rubbed down with pumice stone until it seemed a part of the wood. Each coat should dry 591 48 hours and be smoothed with a coat of linseed oil, and a paste of pulverized rottenstone and oil on felt. If decorations are desired they are put on after the last coat and given a coat of shellac. Treat with linseed oil and rottenstone as before. Dust, give a good coat of spar varnish, dry for three or four days and finally smooth with rottenstone and oil. A few other suggestions for finishing might be given. Batiking furniture is very lovely. The design is painted on with wax and the whole article dyed, the wax removed and the design left in the natural finish. An antique finish is secured by applying a semi-transparent color, darker than the ground color, such as raw or burnt umber. After the final coat is dry this is applied and wiped away except in spots where you desire the antiquing. It should be applied sparingly where you wish to give the effect of high lights. Old ivory is secured by mixing ivory paint with raw sienna and burnt umber and a glaze of the same applied and wiped lightly. To obtain an eggshell finish pour paraffin oil on the furniture, sprinkle with powdered pumice, and rub well until the desired finish is obtained, then clean away all traces of pumice and oil. To get a weathered silver finish apply a coat of gray stain, when dry, rub over the surface with a rag and a small amount of white paint. A beautiful ebony finish may be obtained by applying first a coat of vermillion flat paint, a coat of black mixed with Chinese blue, and finally a coat of rubbing varnish. [TECORATIONS, such as transfers, Decalcomania, and stencils may be used, but with good taste and judgment. They should be selected with care, so that they have some meaning and properly fill the spaces in which they are placed. Do 592 not have them repeat each other in a dull and monotonous manner. A more charming effect can be obtained by not putting transfers on all the painted articles in a room; it will lend variety and not look so much like a set if only a few are used. That is, in a bedroom, the chairs and small tables might be left without applied design, while the chest and bed are decorated. Striping, if well done provides effective decoration, also shading of colors. Avoid a spotty look in handling these decorations, not only on the furniture, but on door panels, etc. Too few are much better than too many. DO not be afraid of color in furniture. Color was used to beautify the surroundings in the early civilizations with delightful results. Of course, except for accents and furniture for porches, breakfast and sunrooms, a more or less neutral color is best for the background, such as ivory, gray-green, Gray-blue, or black, but they can be decorated in all the tints of the rainbow. Charming touches may be added? such as lining drawers and doors with color, for instance a black desk with Chinese Red or Peacock Blue, Ecru with orange, etc. For mixing colors and color harmonies refer to article two. Often one has an old piece of furniture made of a beautiful wood or with a really fine grain, in excellent condition. It may be covered with several coats of paint, but this may be removed by sanding, or with paint remover and sanding. To finish, shellac may be applied, or shellac and wax, or if you wish to deepen the color or change it, apply stain, which may be secured in gray, brown, green, blue, mahogany and cherry. Give a coat of shellac, dry, then a coat of linseed oil. Smooth RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with a paste of pulverized rottenstone and linseed oil, applied with felt. Dry and dust. Then apply two or three coats of wax. Wax may also be applied over the dry stain. This will give a rich, subdued luster. Woods especially worthwhile treating in this manner are maple, redwood, walnut, mahogany and pine. Another finish for all woods in their natural colors is burnt sienna in oil, thinned with turpentine until like thin cream and applied with an oxhair brush. When dry, apply shellac, dry and smooth with paste of oil and pulverized rottenstone. Dry and dust with cloth. There are now on the market many delightful pieces of unfinished furniture in the "white," which has fine lines and feeling and built on a scale suitable for small homes and apartments. They may be painted, waxed or shellacked to fit any color scheme. ANYON E handy with a saw and hammer can easily remodel old furniture into new and delightful shapes, or improvise a beautiful piece where there was none before. If the furniture is too high cut it down, if possible. If you have a high bed, the headboard may be sawed down, or it may be removed entirely, and the footboard substituted for the headboard and only a frame at the foot. Supports may be taken off old time dressers and the mirror hung by a cord. A table, washstand, or shelf may be made into a delightful dressing table with a flounce of chintz, taffeta or organdie. A glass may be cut to fit the top, and if desired a bright cretonne tacked under it. The writer once saw an old narrow, drop-leaf table which had been lacquered black, with a line of gold trim. The one leaf was raised against the wall, the other down in YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL front. It was used as a sideboard, and made a lovely background for a pewter tea set. Another use for such a table might be for serving. A breakfast room might be most attractively furnished with a small table in black enamel with jade trim, the chairs jade with seat pads of black oilcloth. Small benches painted green might also be used. Small shelves or a hanging cupboard to match would complete a very charming room. Rows of pine shelves in the same colors as the furniture can be made interesting with pottery, china or glass. FTEN chairs and sofas that are past the stage where they can be remodeled, or have lines that are irredeemable may be _ slip-covered with some colorful material, and are quite satisfactory. This subject will be treated more fully next month under decorative textiles. Mission furniture may be made to fit in with the modern decoration if painted and treated with a few strong decorations and upholstered in a bold pattern or stripes. The serviceability and suitability of wicker, reed and bamboo furniture to nearly every type of room and decoration but the most formal cannot be emphasized too much. It may be left natural, or stained or painted, and upholstered with cretonne or striped linen will prove really fine. Wicker can be interspersed with mahogany or walnut furniture in informal rooms. AINTED furniture possesses the qualities of freshness, gayety and cleanliness. It has a lighter weight effect than furniture of natural wood, and this fact must be taken into consideration in balancing a room. While it will add color and charm to a room, if used with discretion 593 , there are few rooms where it can be used entirely. The best effect is secured where one or two pieces are used for emphasis. Nothing else will give the exact charm an occasional piece of good painted furniture adds to a room otherwise furnished in dark woods, achieving harmony by contrast. Rooms that can be furnished suitably with painted furniture alone are bedrooms, boudoirs, nurseries, bathrooms, kitchens, breakfast rooms and sun porches. But even here it is not often desirable to keep to one color and one decoration, or one type of furniture in the room. For example, a bedroom might have a bed and chest of blue enamel, with stripes of cream, the chairs could be of cream, with or without blue decoration, and the dressing table have a flounce of peach, blue and yellow. Bedrooms are always lovely in painted furniture because it is clean looking and cheerful. The bedroom might be furnished in mahogany or walnut, with a painted or lacquered chest or cabinet for variety or interest. In the dining room more care must be used. In informal rooms the chairs and tables might be painted, or gray enamel Louis XVI chairs, for instance, would look well with a Sheraton mahogany table, a cabinet in gray might also be used. To play safe in more formal rooms it is better to keep to natural woods with perhaps a lacquered cabinet for accent. This is excepting the finer pieces of English, Chinese and French painted furniture. In the nursery, painted furniture is eminently suitable. It should be decorated and furnished to suit the age and interest of the children. Clear (not necessarily pure) color should always be used in children's rooms for they love color and do not 594 understatid so well the more subtle tones. The transfer designs or decorations might be pictures of storybook people, fairy tales or Mother Goose, or other designs familiar to child life. Such pictures may often be cut from illustrations in magazines, pasted on the walls or furniture and shellaked over. They may then be changed as the interest of the child changes. Every child deserves a room of his own, and he should have a share in its furnishings and decoration. His ideas should be used, if possible, and included in the discussion. He should know and understand the "whys" of any decision. Nothing will give him a better start in life, in love of home, correct principles and the ability to shoulder responsibility than a place he can call his own?his private world to which he may retreat for solitude, in which he may be himself. If he can't have a room by himself, at least he should have a corner or nook in a room that is his own. On the porch, in the sun-room or out-door living room painted furniture also finds its natural place. Windsor chairs, wicker and metal furniture are especially good. Such furniture must be weatherproof, strong enough to resist the wind, yet light enough to be moved if desired, comfortable and look nice always. Painted furniture meets these requirements. It may be painted in brilliant colors, sufficiently vigorous RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for out-of-doors, in a setting of trees and flowers, yet harmonious with the exterior of the house. Two coats of lacquer makes a finish impervious to moisture, especially appropriate for porch furnishings. Metal furniture should have a protective undercoat of red lead and iron oxide. While there are beautiful pieces made especially for outdoor use, it is possible to equip the garden room with castoffs from the house. An iron couch or cot with a comfortable mattress and cushions, with a waterproof covering provides for a moment of relaxation. A few chairs, a small table or two, some hanging baskets and potted plants make satisfactory furnishings for a sun room. A dining table here is not amiss. Breakfast in the cheery atmosphere of a sunporch will give you a better start for the. Day. Get the habit of eating "under the sky." There is really no end to the possibilities of old furniture. Never discard it unless it is in bad condition or of hopelessly bad design. It may be that it will furnish that needed touch to give the desired result in the bedroom, or fill an empty spot in the living room. An old chair, a relic of the reign of horsehair, may become "father's favorite? when recovered in a bold printed linen and set in a cosy place by the hearth. Next Month: Slip Covers and Decorative Textiles. OW," said a good book unto me ?"'Open my pages and you shall see Jewels of wisdom and treasures fine, Gold and silver in every line, And you may claim them if you but will Open my pages and take your fill." ? Edgar A. Guest.