"Give Me the Dagger" By Harrison R. Merrill
WHEN the famous and ambitious lady of the great play made the remark with which this article is headed she was in deadly earnest. To prove it she snatched the bloody blades from her husband's hand, rushed into where King Duncan lay and smeared the faces of the grooms in order "that it might seem their guilt." But before making that exclamation she chided her unnerved husband as many a hubby has been chided before and since. "Infirm of purpose," she hissed, "give me the daggers!" I'm sure she hissed. You try saying it in a half-whisper.
Many of us, had we had someone to help us "screw our courage to the sticking point" and to wield the weapons might have achieved more than we have done, for, I am sorry to say, we are infirm of purpose. In another way, on second thought, however, that very infirmity might have been our savior. For, from the same great Bard of Avon, we present another statement?"There is a destiny which shapes our ends, rough hew them how we will." If all of us had been firm of purpose many of our destinies might have been overridden.
For instance, I have no difficulty in remembering when I wished I might be a Diamond Dick, a Buffalo Bill, or at least a cowboy like the Virginian. Had I possessed the great lady's ambition and the persistency with which she pursued her ends, I might have been a terror to this mountain country always provided that there could have been found a horse that could carry me. I often wonder if it was not that inadequacy and my own tender heart that kept me from actually becoming a happy-go-lucky rider of the range. After I got to weigh over a seventh of a ton I never can remember riding a horse without feeling as if I should at least half of the time change about with him. Recently when I was proffered an opportunity of riding a friend's fine horse, though I was burning to do it, I refused on the horse's account.
In my youth just as I was ready to try my hand at being a cowboy, Fate came along and offered me a job as a camp tender for a sheep herder. I accepted, and who ever heard of a sheep herder changing over to the job of following the "hairies" when he could follow the "woolies" at a much slower pace.
BUT I was not destined to be a sheep herder. I was too infirm of purpose even for that, or else I never really considered it seriously as a profession. I got started in high school and by the time school was out or far enough along for me to quit for credit, all of the camp tenders and the sheep herders had been engaged for the year. Had I possessed the ambition of Lady Macbeth I might have gone up to some camp, thrown its occupant out on his ear, and taken possession, but I fear I was "too full of the milk of human kindness" to catch that "nearest way." Or, on the other hand, I may have been too full of indecision.
Instead I got a job at a saw mill. I was the off-bearer, and often I used to look at the sawyer with envy. I think I even decided to be a sawyer in a sort of an indifferent sort of way, but I never really filed a saw or used the lever for more than a slab or scantling.
Next I became a farmer, not because I had planned to be one but because Fate, or whatever it is that shapes our ends, came along and made it easy for me. I started with nothing and quit with less. At one time during the process of obtaining my experience I decided to be a great farmer, but as drought and frost and low prices followed each other in succession I simply meandered on to something else. I might have told the sun to cease scorching or the frost to cease fooling around my acres, but I didn't. I was infirm of purpose and since there was no one in particular to take up "my daggers," I decided to complete my education. I went to the University of Idaho because a friend wanted to go there, and to Utah State Agricultural College because it was easier to do so. I might have continued my course at Idaho and have become an electrical engineer, but I didn't. I lacked the ambition in that direction. I graduated an Aggie in English and history?think of that.
I DIDN'T decide to go on a mission; I was called. At Liverpool President Penrose asked most of the fellows where they wanted to go and then sent them in an opposite direction, but he failed to ask me. He merely said when I undoubled to my full?very full height?"you are to go to Ireland." Once there I did not come home at my own instigation. I stayed right on until word came that I was released.
Once in high school I wrote a theme which was counted good?better than any theme written by anybody in the class. The class contained but five members, but it was something to be the best of five. Right there I decided to be an author. I started out as a writer, but I could not face the rejection slips. My courage was not "screwed to the sticking point." I fooled around writing a little here and a little there, but I really did not put my heart into it. I had a few things accepted and a lot of things rejected. My friends said, "Well, why don't you keep at it. If I could write like that. * * * " They said, virtually, "Give me the daggers, and I will." But there was something deep down in me that was Macbethean. I could conceive great dreams, but I could not carry them out.
I became a teacher in a high school. A friend kept after me until I went away and got a degree and then later I went away and got another one, but with no stern ambition. I have been without a task master. Fate has been kind. She has kicked me here and there. Some of her blows have made me weep inside, but I've sort of kept up a brave front as if I did not care. I had to be a good sport. I had to be able to say always, "Well, come weal come woe (or whatever the great Thane said) at least I'll die with armor on my back."
GIVE ME THE DAGGER
AND here I am looking back at the zenith of my life, going down hill towards the eternal shadows. I have not moved the world much out of its orbit nor have I forced myself into any high places. I've had a lot of fun. I haven't envied anybody?much, for that is not one of the sins of those who are "infirm of purpose." I have been harmless, but no one will ever come and build a great monument where I fall.
Now I had the size; I think I had the brain cells; but I lacked the "fever that should attend it." "Brave Macbeth" on one occasion rose to great heights of manhood. Had he been able to remain there he might have been truly great?but then that would have spoiled the greatest play ever written. Upon one occasion when he had been goaded to desperation by his ambitious wife, he shot back at her:
"I dare do all that does become a man; who dares do more is none."
While fate has been kicking me about I have always tried to remember that bit of poetry, and have remained rather firm of purpose in that regard. Somehow I managed to be able to see where the fellows were going "who dared do more." While I have never been one of Kipling's "plaster saints" I have kept fairly well toward the middle of the straight and narrow way in a number of things. I have always had an idea that if a fellow keeps his heart right and his mind clean and his eyes up instead of down that when Fate does kick she is likely to kick him up hill instead of down into the gutter. After all these years I still believe that bit of philosophy.
YEARS ago I read a book?I have always read books of all kinds. This one was entitled "Greatness in Men." In it James Whitcomb Riley gives his recipe for success in a bit of verse. As nearly as I remember it it ran something like this:
"Just to be good, it is enough, enough, Oh, we who find sin's billows wild and rough, We learn how more than gold Were the blameless lives we led of old When yet our lips but knew a mother's kiss? Ah, though we miss all else but this To be good is enough.
"It is enough just to be good To lift our hearts where they're understood To let the thirst for worldly power and place Go unappeased; To smile back in God's face With the glad lips our mothers used to kiss; Ah, though we miss all else but this To be good is enough."
That verse, of course, has none of the philosophy of the survival of the fittest in it. It is a philosophy of peace, and, I sometimes fear, one of mediocrity.
SO much that is fine in the world has come through the achievements of ruthless ambition which "has o'er leaped itself and in some cases, fallen on the other side," such as sky-scrapers, railroads, automobiles, in their fine perfection, and thousands of other things, that my philosophy sometimes wavers and I feel very sorry that I have not been capable or worthy of carrying "the daggers."
In the midst of my musing, however, I remember the truly great of the earth?Abraham, Jesus, against whose "purpose" the shafts of the greatest of all empires broke, Martin Luther, who dared do all that any man dared do, George Washington, whose firm purpose could not be swerved by bribery, hardship, and ingratitude, Joseph Smith, who could go "like a lamb to the slaughter" for an idea?and then I know that the greatest achievements are not to be found in steel and stone. That picture Caruth gives us is best:
"A picket frozen on duty, A mother starved for her brood, Socrates drinking the hemlock, And Jesus on the rood; And millions, burdened and weary The long hard pathway plod?
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Some call it consecration (firmness of purpose) And others call it God."
And so, here I am well down the sunset way, a creature who has been molded by circumstance, largely. I might have been more "the captain of my soul" than I have been?who is there who mightn't?but happy if I have served a few and made a few rejoice, * * *
There seems to be no logical way of closing this "confession," but since it is as long as it should be I must inscribe here two of the greatest words of fate?