10 EDITORIAL A Crying Need THAT Has become of the intrepid spirit manifested by the pioneers? Where do we today find the unyielding adherence to principle they manifested? We are placing too high a value on money and are willing to sacrifice principles for gain. The world is crying for leadership and leaders are not to be found. "We tend to live for show, for the material things. However able we start on the enterprise, we end by living on the surface of life instead of living in its deeps."' We talk much of the financial depression and try to devise ways and means to put money in circulation and furnish work for the unemployed, to rehabilitate broken down businesses, etc. These are necessary, but we are thinking too little about the appalling conditions that are everywhere manifested in character deterioration. Our moral standards need fortifying, our resistance to evil needs strengthening. All about us are men who do not seem to have the moral turpitude to do what they know to be right. An employer of men recently asked the applicant if he smoked or drank. He replied, "I do not smoke, but I drink a little.' "That will not do for us," answered the employer. "We must have reliable men." "Well, I have been on the 'water wagon' for some time so you can depend on me," pleaded the applicant. For one week all went well. The man did his work very acceptably. On Monday morning the employer was informed over the telephone that this man could not come to work. He had had a sun stroke but he would probably be able to come about 11 o'clock. He did not appear at his post until the next day. Another was then filling his place. He admitted that on Saturday night he had gone out with "the boys" and had become intoxicated. He had lost a good position because he was not master of his appetite. A wife and three children were dependent on him. One can easily picture the Editor Assistant Manager Mary Connelly Kimball. I Amy Brown Lyman EDITORIAL happiness and distress his weakness caused. Another applicant when questioned said, "I do not drink, but I smoke." "What wages have you been receiving," asked the would-be employer. "T started at $40.00 but was receiving $22.00 when I left." The manager of the store thought there must be something wrong and phoned to the former employer. He found the story was true. He was told that the man understood nis work well but that he could not go four hours without smoking, that they found him repeatedly at the back of the store smoking when he should have been at the front waiting on customers. He had lost his job because he was a slave to the cigarette. Many employees are so intent on watching the clock that they lose many opportunities for service. One big concern seems to see to it that their employees never know what goods are on sale and unless the buyer checks aarefully, he is always charged the full price. Some store keepers are found repeatedly giving short weights. Bonus seekers have become a stench in the nostrils of the American people. Many concerns have been paying such fabulous salaries that there has been nothing left for bond holders and for those who have stocks. Many friends have become obnoxious because they have used their friendship to sell stocks, bonds, etc., to further their own financial gain even when they should 607 have known, if they did not, that the concerns they worked for were not solvent. We have been letting our very advantages weaken our back bones, and the things which when rightly used would have proved blessings have all too often weakened our will power and lessened our power Of resistance. James Truslow Adams says, "Today if one lives in an apartment in the city the heat comes on in the radiators with no effort on our part, or in a country house one can have a thermostat which will tend the furnace while we sleep, with like result. Twenty years ago thermostats were not in use. I lived in the country, and my father, tnen an old man, lived with me. On cold mornings I had to get out of my warm bed to go down to the cellar to stoke the furnace, so that the house might be warm when he got up. Now, it is much pleasanter to lie in bed while the thermostat works than it is to stoke the furnace early on a cold day; but forcing one's self to do the latter has an effect on character which waiting for the thermostat has not. In the first place, I had to use my will to get up, which strengthened will. In the second place I was doing something for someone else at the expense of my own comfort, which also had its effect." We glory in the Renaissance of Learning.