[Vol5 | October 1918 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: War Time Entertainments Morag]

War Time Entertainments. By Morag. To the Readers of the Entertainment Department: Dear Sisters  I have received a number of letters of appreciation, and I desire to take this opportunity to thank you one and all. I enjoy my work in this department, and will take great pleasure in helping you plan your programs for your home evenings, parties, etc. I shall be glad to receive reports of any new or novel parties or entertainments and will pass them along. Questions of general interest relating to parties will be answered through this department, but remember that the Magazine leaves the editor's hands about two months before it reaches you so you must be patient. If you write for special help, please enclose two three-cent stamps and address your letters "Entertainment Dept., 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah." Many people think that all home entertaining should cease at this time. The war has certainly put a damper on our mad rush for pleasure, but even war should not stop our home enjoyment and fun. We need to lay our cares aside occasionally, and play awhile, sing awhile, and smile. Our parties should be kept free from extravagance of any kind, yet planned to give pleasure to those at home, who must keep up their courage and strength in order to accomplish their best efforts in the varying forms of our country's service. The last night of October, Hallowe'en, is a holiday especially dear to the hearts of youth. Hallowe'en is different to all other festivals; it is gay, mysterious, grotesque, unconventional, a time dedicated to young life, liberty and the pursuit and capture of happiness. Originally, Hallowe'en was a pagan, religious festival. On the 31st of October the ancient Druid priests who worshiped the Sun God by keeping eternal fires burning upon their great stone altars, put on their white robes and gathered in their sacred groves, the people standing near. At a given signal, the altar fires were extinguished, symbolic of the completed year of the crops. As Christianity overcame the pagan faith, the festival lost its significance, and folks came to believe October 31st was a time especially propitious for the interference of fairies, ghosts and spirits in human affairs. 
 Jack o'Lantern Party. Decorate with cornstalks Jack o'Lanterns, yellow and black crepe paper, yellow flowers. The invitation: Hallowe'en is Goblin night, Bring your Jack o'Lantern bright; As ghost or spook you should be seen, To be in style at Hallowe'en. A Jack o'Lantern parade through the house is the first "stunt," and a small prize is given to the one whose "Jack" displays the most comical grin. Each guest is then required to write a good recipe for pumpkin pie. The best cook in the party then judges the recipes and the prize, a large pumpkin pie, is awarded the winner, and small individual pies are given the other contestants. The usual games should be played; the apple paring contest, ducking for apples, naming nuts to be roasted in the open fire, etc. A "witch" may preside in one corner, and serve Hallowe'en punch (orangeade) and tell nonsense stories. Serve: Brown Bread Sandwiches (Chopped peanuts) Cottage Cheese Salad Pumpkin Pie Nuts Apples Popcorn Raisins While we are on close sugar rations, omit cakes entirely from your party menus, or use those made and sweetened with molasses, syrup, and raisins. Serve dainty jam tarts, fruit, pie, figs, dates, raisins, or melons, and grapes. Use plenty nuts of various kinds. Cold fresh fruits, apples, pears, sweet cider, fruit ices, made from bottled fruit juices, combined with crushed fresh fruit will fill the place of the more elaborate punch, ice cream, etc.