[Vol5 | October 1918 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON IV Home Courses CONSERVATION OF WOOL AND WOOLEN CLOTH]

LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in November. CONSERVATION OF WOOL AND WOOLEN CLOTHING. Wool is the most important of the animal fibres used for clothing materials. Primarily, it is the hairy covering of the sheep, includedbutin certain goats' and of the classification camels' woolenhairy growth is sometimes materials. The great value of wool as a fibre is dvie to its strength, elasticity, and softness: it absorbs different dye-stuffs readily, and when woven it furnishes a great number of air spaces, thus rendering the clothing made from it very warm and light in weight. Because of these characteristics wool is chosen by the U. S. Government for the material of a majority of the articles of wearing apparel and the blankets of our soldiers. For this reason, and because many sheep have been killed by recent hard winters, and many of their feeding lands have been converted into farm lands, the people of the U. S. are confronting the winter with a comparatively meagre supply of wool on the market. However, there are many ways in which the house wife ma}' meet this shortage and clothe her family and herself as comfortably and as well as they formerly have been clothed. Much good material, in many instances far better in quality than any that may now be purchased, is laid away in chests and store-rooms. Eevery bit of this woolen material should be wisely used, and no new wool should be purchased until the material on hand has been made into suitable condition for wearing. Woolen dresses, of soiled, worn, or of unsuitable design or color should be dyed or ripped up, cleaned, .sponged and pressed. They may be turned and made over, combining, if necessary with some other material of harmonious color and texture, into dresses that will probably last through the season or longer. Suits, both men's and women's, which have given full service for the grown-ups may be remodeled into outer garments for the boys and girls. The life of these garments, as well as of the new ones, may be prolonged very materially by proper care. Woolen dresses, suits, and coats, should be brushed after each wearing, carefully hung on coat-hangers, and put away out of the dust. Covers of paper-cambric, made to slip over the handle and to button below the bottom of the garment, protect the garments which are worn infrequently. All undergarments should be kept in constant repair, darning worn places as soon as they begin to appear, and darning or patching the.small hole before it has a chance to grow. Worn urdergarments, b}^ careful planning in placing of the pattern on the best portion of the garment may be cut down into smallersized undergarments, saving all trimmings for future patching. Worn knitted sw^eaters should be raveled, the yarn wound into skeins washed, and dried, it may then be reknitted nito smaller sweaters, caps, or scarfs, alone or in combination with other yarns of suitable color or weight. Often from two worn sweaters, a good one with a cap to match can be evolved. If the yarn does not need washing, when raveled, the skein may be 
 heatecl in a steamer or double-boiler and then hung to dry; this process will remove all the kinks from the first knitting. The solution of the problem of the mother, who finds it necessary to purchase new materials for the children's clothes, is in the use of mill ends. Naturally, when the supply of wool is so short, the garments made from wool in the different percentages are correspondingly high in price. But by going to the knitting factories and carefully selecting short lengths of material of weight, length and color suited to the garment to be made, material of good quality and at a nominal price may be secured. And by careful placing of the pattern, cutting, and a short time spent in the making, underclothes, dresses, trousers, sweaters, and other garments of good material will be the result. To sponge new woolen material, to prevent shrinkage and spotting of garment after it is made up, the material should be spread on a wet towel or long piece of muslin, and the two rolled together as tightly as possible; after twelve hours, the material should be pressed on the wrong side with a dry cloth laid over the material. To remove grease spots from woolen material, sponge with warm water and white naphtha soap, placing a bath towel imder the spotted place. Rinse with luke-warm water, and press. Soap bark, soaked and strained, is good for cleaning a whole piece of material that is to be dipped in the solution. Fuller's earth sprinkled over stains, caused by contact of the material with the oil of the skin, and allowed to remain several days before being brushed out, will usually remove all trace of the stain. To press garments, place a heavy cloth, wrung dry from water over the garments; use a hot iron and.press until almost dry. Hang on hanger to dry. Hot irons directly on the goods leaves marks of the irons as well as weakens the fibre of the material. The shine of worn materials can often be removed by sponging with coffee or vinegar diluted with water, following by pressing and then brushing against the nap. The woman who uses every means at hand to make the garments she has serve to the limit of their usefulness and then uses mill ends for the rest, is fulfilling her patriotic duty in respect to the woolen situation at the present time. She not only is establishing habits of thrift, but she is setting free a greater portion of the available supply of wool for the protection of our soldiers who must brave much exposure in the fighting of our battles, and she will be saving money, which may be profitably invested in War Saving Stamps or Liberty Bonds to help carry on this war to victory for right and liberty. To the Presidents of Relief Societies and Members of Choirs Dear Sisters: We are happy to tell you that the Relief Society Song Book, which has been prepared with much skill and thought, will be ready for distribution in a.short time. A great effort has been made to include in the collection found in this book, songs for every occasion, for congregational singing and for Relief Society choir singing, etc. The Music Committee has endeavored to include so wide a list of hymns and songs that it will meet every need of the Relief Society throughout the Church. The book is divided into two parts; the first contains a selection of hymns from all our Latter-day Saint hymn books, suitable for our ward and stake meetings; the second part has been compiled especially for choirs with soprano and alto parts, for use in wards where such choirs have been organized. Special stress has been laid upon restricting the range of the songs. Some of our best and most popular hymns have been recast to permit the shortening of range so that the ordinary voice can encompass them. The Music Committee of the General Board of the Relief Society, with President Emmeline B. Wells herself in attendance, have gone carefully over the work in detail. Following are expressions from the Music Committee: "The selections in the book are from the very best authors and composers, and while the airs have not been changed the music has been so simplified that it can be played by any of our young girls who are able to play the simplest music. I am very well pleased wtih the book and glad to know that we are at last going to have a book which will meet the requirements of our Relief Society sisters throughout the Church. "Phebe Y. Beatie, 'Chairman Music Committee." I am glad to know that our Relief Society sisters will have a song book with music suitable for their voices, for we have long felt the need of a book of this kind. "Edna May Davis." "The musical needs of our women have now been met by furnishing them a Relief Society Song Book filled with the sweet and simple melodies suited to their voices and also suitable music for all Relief Society occasions, both congregational and choir. "Janette a. Hyde." Send your orders to Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary of the Relief Society 28 Bishop Building Single copies. 75c; by the dozen, $7.80. Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing, 1918-19  The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and |  Nursing will begin its fourteenth year, Monday, Sep| I tember 16, 1918, Fourth Floor, Bishop's Building. |  Term eight months.  |  This course consists of general instructions in |  nursing, emphasizing Home Care of the Sick, with | practical demonstrations, seven and one-half hours |  per week. It includes in addition, a series of lectures |  and practical demonstrations in Invalid Cooking, First |  Aid Work, Hydrotherapy, Sterilization, and lectures | I on Elementary Hygiene, Public Health, Contagious |  Diseases, Drugs and Solutions, Prevention and Treat| I ment of Diseases. These lecture courses, which are |  given successively and cover a period of five hours a |  week, will be given by prominent physicians, surgeons  and other specialists. Each student of this course | I will be required to do at least twenty-five hours of |  field work in practical nursing during the term under |  the direction of the school. Tuition $25.00 cash,  thirty days service charity nursing. Tuition to be |  paid and contracts to be signed upon registration. |  For further information, address |  MRS.