[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 1 | Article | A New Year Wish | General Presidency]
VOL. 54, NO. 1 A New Year Wish General Presidency The word which characterizes the New Year is the word happy. "Happy New Year" rings out in joyous sound. Similar expressions are found in different languages in different countries. They contemplate the past year with its sunlight and shadows and wish for a new year of happiness. This wish is extended by the General Board to every Relief Society member in the year 1967. As we extend this wish to you, we are mindful of the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith: Happiness is the object and design of our existence; and will be the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to it; and this path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness, and keeping all the commandments of God. But we cannot expect to know all, or more than we now know unless we comply with or keep those we have already received (DHC V:134-135). Each one to whom we offer this wish lives under different economic, social, and physical conditions, but each one has one great spiritual blessing. You each have the good tidings of great joy. You each have this blueprint for happiness. You each have the divine gift of a loving Heavenly Father to you his beloved daughter The Relief Society. Relief Society will assist you wondrously on your twelvemonth pilgrimage on the path for happiness. As you persist, your burdens will drop from you. To each Relief Society member we send this message of love "Happy New Year!" General Presidency The Cover: Relief Society Centennial Memorial Campanile Transparency by Howard Barker Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes Frontispiece: Brook in Winter, Photograph by Leland Van Wagoner

From Near and Far For a year and a half I have received the wonderful Magazine as a gift from a Brigham Young University student, and nothing has added more joy to being a mother than this helpful publication. I look forward to the wholesome stories, the inspirational editorials, poems, and special features, and delight in trying out the recipes and other household suggestions. I know of nothing else like the Magazine! Although I am not a Latter-day Saint, through the Magazine I have come to respect and understand the beliefs of the Church. Mrs. W. Franklin Burditt Briarcliff Manor New York Since June 1965 I have received a gift subscription of The Relief Society Magazine through the mission home in Buenos Aires, and I am so thankful for the monthly message of beauty, love, and virtue it brings to me. It is the most feminine magazine I have ever read, because it reflects the deep feelings, thoughts, and problems of good women of today. Mrs. Liliana R. Riboldi Rosario, Argentina When things of the earthly life which are not to my liking gather too closely around, I find that prayer and a story from the Magazine set me to a better way of meeting the moments. Naomi Pollett Mountain View, Wyoming I am very grateful for our wonderful Magazine which I have been receiving for the past four years. This little Magazine has played a great part in helping me progress in self-improvement ever since I became a member of the Church five years ago, and I have recommended it to everyone I meet, subscribing to it for members of my family and friends, from time to time. Violet M. Tate Pennsauken, New Jersey We love The Relief Society Magazine and are so grateful for the strength and support it gives to us in the important work to help the sisters in France, Belgium, and Luxembourg to understand the purpose of this choice organization in helping them to serve the Lord as members of his Church and mothers in his kingdom. We are anxiously awaiting the day when it will come to us in French so that the full worth of the messages therein can reach into the hearts and homes in the Franco-Belgian Mission. Helen H. Paramore, Supervisor Brussels, Belgium I would like to thank you for the article "Surface Cleaning" by Dorothy C. Little (August 1966). Many mornings I had felt that cleaning and clearing up things around the house was just too much for me to cope with. But I've tried the methods suggested in the article, and they work. Hope Moon Sugar City, Idaho I have very much enjoyed the continued story "Wheat for the Wise" (concluded in July) by Margery S. Stewart. I think I shall feel the same way about the story "Tell Me of Love" by Rosa Lee Lloyd (beginning July 1966). Nothing in the Magazine goes unsavored. Lillie Hendricks Big Springs, Texas I have read the editorial "A Pattern for the Daughters of Zion" by Vesta P. Crawford (July 1966) many times, and I have tried to visualize the time and the effort, which are put into the words that go straight to the hearts of the sisters. What lovely words of wisdom you have put forth for the daughters of Zion. Lorene P. Revill Spencer, Indiana The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom Elder Harold B. Lee Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1966] w I would not have you think that my coming in late and not being able to hear my esteemed and beloved friend and brother, Gordon B. Hinckley of the Council of the Twelve, indicated any lack of respect. I would have wished to have been here. I know his great power of uplift; and I would have felt happy had I been here to have received it; and, also, it would relieve me of an anxiety that I might be repeating what he may have said to you already in this session. Before, or shortly after I became a member of the Council of the Twelve, I was called to the office of the President of the Church, and he said, ""We have Brother Callis and Brother Cannon who are the Advisers to the Primary, and we have been thinking we need someone near the age of the Primary children as an Adviser." You can imagine my anxiety when I was told about about two years ago that I was being relieved of that responsibility and was now being made an Adviser to the Relief Society. I don't know whether that has any significance or not, but at least it gave me a rather queer feeling. Before I accepted this responsibility, I gave Sister Spafford a rather negative or evasive answer. I had some other commitments that I thought might prevent my being here at this time, but after a little deliberation and a little shifting, she was called and was told that I would be able to accept the assignment. She replied, ''Well, that's fine because his name is already on the program."