[Vol44 | April 1957 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: What Is | Author: Rawlins]
[What Is Joy? Jennie Brown Rawlins]
A thorough daily watering is about all the care that a portable garden needs, although a good practice is to give a once-a-month feeding to the plants. Use a soluble plant fertilizer. Its use will assure you of good plant growth. If, in the past, you have had wide borders of flowers around your garden, and now you find that you cannot care for them properly any longer, gradually do away with the borders. Instead of those flowers, plant different kinds of ground coyers. Plants that are classed as ground covers hug the ground, seldom growing more than five inches tall. They are attractive throughout 237 the growing season, some remaining green throughout the year. A list of ground covers would include Vinca minor, ajuga, creeping Jenny, and wild strawberry for the semi-shady or sunny locations. For the very sunny spots, try using Sedums. Sedums are rugged plants, requiring little care, once they have been planted. In the shady spots, under large trees or shrubs, on the north side of the buildings, try Pachysandra, any of the ivics, or use lily of the valley or sweet violets. Once the plants are set out, about all that will be required is about two feedings a year, plus regular watering in arid sections of our country. What Js Joy? Jennie Brown Rawlins 6 SI I ai things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full" (John 15:11). To me this solemn and beautiful statement means that through God we have it in our power to gain a fulness of joy both now and in the life to come. This presents a second question: What is joy? The dictionary defines it as gladness, gaiety, or exhilaration of spirits. To me it has a more sober and lasting quality than this definition suggests. Joy, as the Savior spoke of it, is not momentary, unadulterated bliss, but a complex thing, a thing of multi-variant hues, of undulating inflections, yet deep and abiding. We say that we have joy in working in the Church, in rearing our families, in going to school. 'Thus joy is comprised not only of moments of rapture, when we have an awareness of peace in the glowing instant, but of our endeavors to overcome obstacles, our striving toward accomplishment, and yearnings toward the divine, as well as countless homely, yet heartwarming experiences that go to make up living. Joy is not freely given. It must be attained. It is the reward God gives us for accepting our tribulations with grace, our triumphs with humility, our daily bread with thanksgiving, our responsibilities with willingness, the unkind acts of others with tolerance, and the ever-burgeoning wonders about us with awareness and appreciation, Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NatIONS" RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY IN PAROWAN (UTAH): The fiftyfifth anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society was royally celebrated March 17th at Parowan. A most excellent program of addresses, recitations, songs and music was well rendered, the brethren feeling honored in being invited to contribute to the day's enjoyment. Sister Lenora Orton gave the historical address... Which was replete with information. Among the aged sisters who spoke were Sister Nancy Decker and Aunt Paulina Lyman, who were at Nauvoo at the time the Prophet Joseph established the Society —E. Crane Watson, Secretary LAKE TAHOE (CALIFORNIA): It was just sundown when the stage coach turned a bend in the road and we came to the very edge of the lake, ensconced amid the mountains at an altitude of 6,225 feet above sea level on the borders of Nevada and California in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, its length 22% miles, greatest width 13 miles, its depth 1,506 feet, its waters not blue but wonderfully clear, looking like a sheet of glass, surrounded like a wall by the mountains while the beautiful pines peeped up through the snow —Kim LIVING PICTURES OF THE HOLY LAND: Madame von Finklestien Mountford has been given her unique entertainment, Living Pictures of the Holy Land under the auspices of the Brigham Academy in several of the larger towns in the State.... Madame Mountford will give one of her series of lectures in the large Tabernacle in this city on Tuesday evening, April 16th. —Editorial Note FAREWELL TO SISTER McCUNE ON HER DEPARTURE FOR EUROPE Think of those who love thee, And miss thee every day, Let this sweet assurance Bring peace and joy alway Fear not man for he is mortal, In the holy cause be strong; Trust in God in silent asking, He will move the proud among. —Lydia D. Alder WOMAN LAWYER: Mrs, Helen M. Gougar was admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of Indiana on Feb. 19. She at once made the oral argument in her test case, wherein she claims that the present law, properly interpreted, is sufficient to permit women to vote. All the judges came down from the bench and congratulated Mrs. Gougar on the ability of her argument. —Selected Page 238 R. SITI J. R. NOORZAIN, of Jakarta, Indonesia, represented her country at the International Federation of University Women in Paris, France, and later visited America. A dentist by training, educated in Holland and her native land, at thirty-two she is mother of three children, editor of two magazines, a government official, and an educator. She has helped to reduce illiteracy in Indonesia from ninetyseven to forty-seven per cent. Woman's position has greatly improved, although a man can still divorce his wife by merely announcing the fact, and he is not required to support his children, and property rights are not granted to women. Fifty per cent of the women now exercise their right to vote. RA PATE STEWART has added to her many successful books A Letter to My Daughter, a sequel to A Letter to My Son. This is a volume of sound advice to girls on the best and happiest way to live life, how to prepare for marriage, and what to expect of marriage. Written from the Latter-day Saint point of view, it contains inspirational passages, down-to-earth comtion sense, and flashes of humor. Mrs. Stewart, mother of seven children, is a popular lecturer as well as an author. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon OSE HEILBRON, I forty-two, attractive and feminine-looking in her judge's white, long, wavy, wig, is the first woman to become an English judge. Wife of a surgeon and mother of an eight-yearold daughter, she is regarded as one of the best legal minds in the country. Even so, she had to overcome considerable prejudice to reach her present position. ELIEVED to be the nation's oldest married couple, Mr. And Mrs. Peter Petersen, Latter-day Saints of Fairview, Utah, have celebrated their seventy-eighth wedding anniversary. 'They received a special delivery letter from President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Mr. Peterson is ninety-six; his wife, ninety-five. RS. PAT McCORMACK, twenty-six, of Lakewood, California, is the first person ever to win two gold medals for diving in two successive Olympiads. She did a two-and-a-half somersault and a one-and-a-half somersault with full twist at the Olympic Games in Melbourne, Australia, last December. Australia's Lorraine Crapp won the women's 400-meter free-style swimming event in a new time record of 4:54.6. Sylvia Ruuska, only fourteen, of Berkeley, California, came in third in the latter event. Page 239 CQ EDITORIAL 9 VOL.
