[Vol44 | April 1957 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: 218 Selling The Relief Society Magazine Thomas S. Monson]
SELLING  THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
229 
Relief  Society  Magazine  representa- 
tive was  a  little  Scotch  sister,  Eliza- 
beth Keachie,  who  was  most  devoted 
to  her  assignment.  She  had  de- 
termined to  visit  every  home  in  the 
ward  to  explain  the  benefits  enjoyed 
by  subscribing  to  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine.  Each  day  before  making 
her  visits,  she  would  kneel  in  prayer 
and  ask  her  Heavenly  Father  to 
guide  her  activities. 
AFTER  many  weeks  she  com- 
pleted her  house-to-house  cam- 
paign with  the  single  exception  of 
the  homes  on  a  remote  street  that 
lay  in  an  industrialized  area  adjacent 
to  the  railroad  tracks.  Sister  Keachie 
hesitated  visiting  this  area  alone, 
and  therefore  she  requested  her 
visiting  teaching  companion,  Alice 
Johnson,  to  join  her. 
Sister  Johnson  commented  that 
there  were  only  one  or  two  homes 
at  best  on  the  street  and  that  no 
member  of  the  Church  resided  in 
any  of  them.  But  Sister  Keachie 
was  determined  to  complete  her 
task,  and  so  they  started  down  the 
uninviting  street. 
Visits  to  the  two  homes  yielded 
nothing,  but  as  they  turned  to  leave. 
Sister  Keachie  noted  a  curtain  at 
the  window  of  a  small  garage  located 
down  a  muddy  alleyway  behind  one 
of  the  buildings.  She  persuaded 
her  companion  to  visit  this  humble 
garage  with  her.  They  knocked  at 
the  door,  and  an  elderly  gentleman, 
ninety-three  years  of  age,  greeted 
them. 
They  explained  the  purpose  of 
their  visit  and  the  benefits  derived 
from  subscribing  to  The  Relief  So- 
ciety Magazine.  The  old  gentle- 
man talked  to  them  for  an  hour 
and  finally  subscribed.  He  also 
asked  them  if  they  would  return 
each  month  and  talk  to  him  about 
the  Church.  After  securing  permis- 
sion from  the  ward  Relief  Society 
presidency,  they  added  this  small 
abode  to  their  own  regular  visiting 
teaching  district. 
The  months  went  by,  and  then 
the  old  gentleman  started  to  attend 
Priesthood  meetings.  Eventually, 
he  was  advanced  in  the  Priesthood. 
After  about  a  year,  he  was  ordained 
an  elder  in  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood and  applied  for  a  temple  rec- 
ommend. He  stated  that  his  wife 
had  died  many  yeara  before  and 
that  he  wanted  to  be  sealed  to  her 
for  the  eternities  to  come.  He  also 
confided  in  me,  as  his  bishop,  that 
he  had  made  her  a  promise  many 
years  ago  that  he  would  go  to  the 
temple  and  perform  this  important 
work. 
The  Sunday  after  he  had  complet- 
ed his  work  in  the  temple,  he  stood 
up  and  bore  his  testimony  in  fast 
meeting.  He  paid  tribute  to  Sister 
Keachie  and  Sister  Johnson,  the 
patient  sisters  of  the  Relief  Society, 
for  visiting  him  so  faithfully,  and 
then  he  praised  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  and  told  of  its  importance 
in  assisting  him  to  build  his  testi- 
mony. 
Ninety-four  year-old  Brother  Ring- 
wood  died  within  six  months  of 
this  meeting.  I  recalled  this  experi- 
ence at  his  funeral  service;  and  I  am 
certain  that  the  tears  which  filled 
the  eyes  of  Sister  Keachie  and  Sister 
Johnson  were  tears  of  gratitude  for 
having  faithfully  performed  their 
labors  in  a  pleasing  manner  before 
the  Lord. 
You  see,  Sister  Keachie  was  in- 
formed; she  was  organized,  friendly, 
enthusiastic,  humble,  and  prayer- 
ful, and  because  she  followed  these 
principles,  she  was  successful!  May 
we  all  be  successful  in  our  callings.

New  Shoes  for  Flo 
Wanda  F.  Hilton 
SUMMERS    when    it   was   hot  ears  open  for  any  mention  of  shoes, 
and    dry,    Flo    did    not    wear  But  for  two  days,  so  far  as  Flo  knew, 
shoes.       She     went    barefoot  her  mother  had  not  given  them  a 
Sunday    through    Saturday,    month  thought.    It  was  now  the  beginning 
after  month.    Of  course,  there  were  of  the  third  day,  and  mother  hadn't 
things  like  bruised  toes  and  thorn  given  one  hint  that  she  was  even 
pricks,  and   it  was  always  wise  to  tinkering  with  the  idea  of  suggest- 
look  about  carefully  when  climbing  ing  that  father  ride  into  Rexburg 
the  rocky  hillsides  for  rattlesnakes,  and  buy  the  winter  stock  of  shoes 
The   one   pair   of   shoes,   worn   all  and    other    necessities    like    bacon, 
winter,  did  well  to  last  through  the  sugar,  and  flour, 
spring  thaws.  The    blessing   on   the    food   had 
With  the  last  patch  of  snow  melt-  been  given   and   the   mush   dished 
ing   in    the   spring   sunshine,   Flo's  up,  when  Mother  spoke, 
shoes,  or  what  remained  of  them,  '7^^^/'  ^^^^  asked  in  a  matter-of- 
melted  away,  too.  fact  tone,  ''don't  you  think  tomor- 
Flo   loved  those  first  days   after  row  might  be  as  good  a   time  as 
the  shoes  were  gone.     It  was  good  any  to  hitch  up  old  Bess  and  Pet 
not  always  to  be  laboring  to  keep  a  and  drive  to  town  and  stock  up? 
ragged  piece  of  leather  tied  in  place.  It's  getting  along  in  the  season  and 
But  after  a  few  days,  she  just  didn't  things  are  running  low.  Flo  could 
give  it  a  thought  one  way  or  an-  even  do  with  some  shoes,  it's  that 
other.     Then  as  September  trump-  cold." 
eted  its  arrival  with  red  and  gold  Flo  sat  still  and  open-mouthed, 
pageantry,  Flo  began  to  dream  of  Even  though  she  had  been  expect- 
new  shoes,  and  by  Thanksgiving  it  ing  the  words,  they  came  as  a 
was  right  uncomfortable  to  be  with-  rapturous  shock, 
out  shoes  because  it  was  cold,  cold,  'Tes,  I  guess  it's  time,"  Father 
cold!  answered  looking  up  into  Mother's 
Then  Flo's  mother  would  wrap  face.     ''But  are  you  willing  that  I 
her  feet  in  warm  rags  and  that  felt  should  go  now?     Maybe  I'd  better 
good  as  long  as  she  stayed  indoors  wait  a  week  or  two." 
where  it  was  warm  and   dry,  but  Wait,  thought  Flo.     What  for? 
rags  got  wet  if  one  ventured  out,  There  had  never  been  any  talk  of 
and  then  they  were  worse  than  noth-  waiting  before  when   Mother   sug- 
ing.  gested  the  trip. 
There  was  always  one  thing  about  'In  a  week  or  two  the  road  may 
the  rag  business,  though,  that  made  be  closed  tight  as  snow  can  make 
Flo's  eyes   bright  and  her  dreams  it,"  Mother  replied.     "You  usually 
more  real,  for  then  Mother  would  have  made  the  trip  by  now.    I  just 
begin  talking  about  shoes.  realized    it    day    before    yesterday. 
Now,  for  two  days  Flo  had  been  when  I  had  to  wrap  up  Flo's  feet, 
wearing  rags,  and  she  had  kept  her  Best  go  right  away.  The  sooner  you 
Page  230

NEW  SHOES  FOR  FLO 
231 
go,   the  sooner  you  will  be  back, 
and  that's  the  way  I  want  it/' 
npHERE  had  never  before  been 
allusions  to  things  not  being 
just  right,  and  it  worried  Flo;  but 
in  the  hurried  preparations  for 
Father's  going,  she  forgot  her  mis- 
givings. Everything  but  joy  van- 
ished when  she  looked  at  the  long 
list  of  things  for  Father  to  buy. 
The  first  item  on  the  list  was 
"A  pair  of  shoes  for  Floetta!" 
That  night  just  before  she 
climbed  into  bed,  Father  stood  her 
on  a  piece  of  paper  on  the  table  and 
traced  the  outline  of  her  foot  with 
his  stubby  pencil.  It  had  tickled 
and  she  had  wiggled. 
''Stop  now,"  Father  said.  'Ton 
must  stand  still  and  hard.  Let  your 
foot  spread  out  as  far  as  it  will.  We 
don't  want  those  new  shoes  to  be 
too  little." 
Flo  had  gone  to  bed  feeling  that 
she  had  tried  on  her  new  shoes, 
and  soon  she  would  have  them  for 
keeps. 
At  the  moment  of  Father's  de- 
parture, Flo  recalled  her  misgivings, 
for  Father  seemed  uncertain  and 
hesitant. 
'Tou're  sure  you  want  me  to 
go?"  he  asked,  and  Mother  nodded, 
her  face  calm. 
As  the  wagon  jolted  off  over  the 
rough,  uneven  trail,  the  calmness 
faded,  and  her  face  looked  like 
winter,  Flo  thought,  lonely  and  cold 
and  even  fearful. 
The  Harris  family  lived  far  away 
from  all  the  settlements  and  towns. 
Father,  Flo  had  heard  it  said,  had 
poor  health  and  the  natural  hot 
spring  about  a  mile  from  the  cabin 
was  good  for  whatever  was  the  mat- 
ter with  him.    So  Father  and  Moth- 
er had  sold  their  livery  stables  and 
town  lots  and  moved  up  to  no- 
where. 
The  cabin  had  been  built  close 
against  the  mountain  where  the 
aspen  trees  came  down  and  snug- 
gled about  in  a  tight  friendly  circle, 
only  giving  way  a  little  for  the  path 
which  led  down  to  the  road  a  half 
mile  away. 
The  trip  to  town  usually  took 
about  five  days— two  to  go,  one  in 
which  to  do  the  shopping,  and  two 
to  make  the  trip  home.  Father 
spent  the  two  nights  between  home 
and  town  at  the  Williams'  ranch. 
Flo  was  sure  Mother  had  never 
acted  as  if  she  were  expecting  Fa- 
ther before  the  fifth  day  before,  but 
this  time,  the  morning  of  the  third 
day  Mother  began  walking  the  half 
mile  to  the  road  and  back  again 
every  little  while.  Her  face  looked 
white,  and  she  said  few  words. 
When  they  knelt  for  prayer  her 
petitions  were  urgent,  and  she 
stayed  on  her  knees  a  long  time. 
When  it  was  bedtime,  Mother 
turned  out  the  lamp,  but  instead  of 
coming  to  bed,  she  sat  before  the 
fire  and  rocked  back  and  forth,  and 
sighed. 
Flo  was  sure  Mother  even  made 
the  trip  to  the  road  alone  that  night. 
The  pressure  of  her  uneasiness  was 
the  most  frightening  thing  Flo  had 
ever  endured.  It  was  so  big  and 
real  that  even  thoughts  of  the  shoes 
were  not  comforting  or  of  im- 
portance. 
npHE  morning  of  the  fourth  day, 
Flo  awakened  to  the  desolate 
sound  of  the  wind.  Mother  was  at 
the  window  peering  out  into  the 
semidarkness.     She   stood   there  a