[Vol44 | April 1957 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Poem | Title: Elaine | Author: Lukei]
[Elaine C. Southwick 248 The Three Wise Women Fredrika Clinch 257 A New Quih for an Old Home Jane T. Mattice 258 Make Them Feel Secure Caroline Eyring Miner 265 A Look Backward and Forward, Relief Society All the Way Annie W. Westover 266 Formosa — Culinary Melting Pot Edna B. Culmsee 267 Dilemma Wilma Boyle Bunker 275 FICTION— SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORIES Mountain Vacation Deone R. Sutherland 220 New Shoes for Flo Wanda F. Hilton 230 Going Modern Frances C. Yost 252 Two of a Kind Maude Rubin 260 The Bright Star — Serial — Chapter Two Dorothy S. Romney 271 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 210 Sixty Years Ago 238 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 239 Editorial: Blessings Attendant Upon an Office Marianne C. Sharp 240 In Memoriam — Nettie Maria Davis Bradford 241 Notes to the Field: Hymn of the Month 242 Notes From the Field: ReUef Society Activities Hulda Parker 276 Birthday Congratulations 280 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Let's Garden With Half the Work Dorthea N. Newbold 234 Recipes From the Northern Far East Mission Frances P. Andrus 244 Miriam Diplock Land Welcomes Opportunities to Serve 270 How to Plant Small Seeds Elizabeth Wilhamson 279 POETRY Apricot Blossoms — Frontispiece Christie Lund Coles 209 Camphor Trees Elsie McKinnon Strachan 233 The Smallest One's Prayer Maryhale Woolsey 233 Legacy Leslie Savage Clark 242 An Easter Thought Delia Adams Leitner 247 Meeting Place Catherine E. Berry 251 Time to Grow Ada Marie Patten 270 Late Spring Eva Willes Wangsgaard 275 My Lad Dorothy J. Roberts 278 Pamela Ethel Jacobson 278 Reunion Vesta N. Lukei]
Elaine  C.  Southwick 
POETRY  is  an  indigenous 
expression  of  all  peoples  at 
all  stages  of  life,  and  is,  per- 
haps, the  most  ancient  and  persist- 
ent of  the  arts. 
Man,  in  a  primitive  state,  ex- 
pressed himself  in  rhythmical  chant- 
ing in  order  to  command  attention 
because  he  wanted  his  friends  to 
know  and  remember  the  things  he 
saw  and  did  and  felt.  The  desire  to 
make  another  respond  to  beauty, 
bravery,  sorrow,  or  any  emotional 
impression  led  man  to  intensify  the 
relating  of  his  experiences  with 
repetition  and  metrical  chanting. 
The  famous  chants  were  treasured 
verbally  and  considered  sacred.  They 
are  our  heritage  of  primitive  poetry, 
translating  for  us  the  basic  emotions 
and  activities  of  a  long-buried  life. 
Poetiy  for  the 
Integration  of  Life 
Poetry  became  an  essential  part 
of  the  healthy  integration  and  men- 
ticulture  of  life.  Nationalities  have 
theii  epic  poems  depicting  the 
struggle  to  emerge  from  scattered 
oblivion  into  a  module  of  im- 
portance. Poems  have  also  played 
an  eminent  part  in  the  lives  of  in- 
dividuals making  history.  Biogra- 
pheis  point  out  that  as  Alexander 
the  Great  strove  to  conquer  the 
world,  he  carried  Homer's  JJiad 
about  with  him  in  a  gold  casket; 
that  the  great  British  general, 
James  Wolfe,  told  his  council,  on 
the  eve  of  victory,  that  he  would 
rather  have  written  Gray's  Elegy 
than  capture  Quebec.  Field  Mar- 
Page  248 
shall  Viscount  Wavell  said  of 
Thompson's  Hound  of  Heaven:  ''It 
has  a  special  place  in  my  life  as  a 
charm  in  danger  or  trouble  ....  I 
have  used  the  magic  of  its  imagery 
in  many  times  of  stress  to  distract 
my  mind  from  peril  or  disaster." 
Poetry  has  been  many  things  to 
many  people,  but  from  the  chanting 
figure  in  the  thermal  glow  of  the 
campfire  undulating  to  the  rhythm 
of: 
The  corn  grows  by  the  red  rock — 
Beautifully  it  grows  .... 
to  these  lyrical  lines  of  a  later  day: 
Beautiful  for  spacious  skies, 
For  amber  waves  of  grain  .... 
the  poet's  intent  has  been  identical. 
He  has  tried  to  tell  something  in 
pictures— symbols  that  would  stir 
the  imagination  and  leave  a  ''magic 
pattern  on  the  mind."  A  modern 
critic  says,  "At  its  highest  moments, 
poetry  is  identified  with  the  central 
meaning  of  all  religion  and  sees  one 
principle  behind  all  creation  .  .  .  ." 
But  for  no  two  people  will  poetry 
mean  quite  the  same  thing,  because 
each  must  interpret  it  according  to 
his  own  experiences  and  tastes.  "Ac- 
cording to  our  ages,"  says  Ralph 
Henry,  "we  will  dust  it  with  nos- 
talgic memory  or  the  joys  of  discov- 
ery. 
Poetry  for  Children 
Of  what  value  is  poetry  to  a  child? 
Poetry  is  the  reflection  of  child- 
hood.     It   jumps   and   skips,   soars

THE  VALUE  OF  POETRY 
249 
and  flies,  laughs  and  grieves,  discov- 
ers and  treasures.  It  can  move  as 
heavily  as  an  armored  truck,  or  sway 
as  deeply  as  wind-pushed  trees;  it 
can  creep  like  gooseflesh,  or  trip  as 
lightfootedly  as  sparrows.  It  is  the 
seriousness,  the  impulsiveness,  the 
fleeting  desire,  and  the  intense 
tragedy  of  childhood. 
Every  child  loves,  responds  to, 
and  remembers  some  poetry  taught 
to  him  because  it  helps  to  interpret 
for  him  his  own  experiences  and 
reveals  to  him  the  hidden  beauty  of 
his  world.  Even  when  one  leaves 
the  fields  of  childhood,  the  response 
to  once  impressionable  verse  remains 
spontaneous  and  recapturable.  Feel 
your  arm  circle  involuntary  to: 
Hickory,  dickory,  dock, 
The  mouse  ran  up  the  clock. 
or  experience  again  the  delightful 
shiver  that  accompanies: 
Hark,  hark,  the  dogs  do  bark. 
The  beggars  are  coming  to  town  .... 
Envision  once  more  the  field  of 
clover  wherein  browses: 
The  gentle  cow  all  red  and  white 
I  love  with  all  my  heart. 
She  gives  me  cream   with   all   her   might 
To  eat  on  apple  tart. 
Become  newly  conscious  of  the 
injustice  of  ingratitude  by: 
Blow,  blow,  thou  winter   wind! 
Thou  are  not  so  unkind 
As  man's  ingratitude. 
Do  you  not  still  remember  the 
curiously  magical  effect  of: 
The  splendor  falls  on  castle  walls 
And  snowy  summits  old  in  story. 
The  long  light  shakes  across  the  lakes, 
And  the  wild  cataract  leaps  in  glory  .... 
By  becoming  acquainted  with 
poetry  in  childhood,  one  becomes 
more  perceptive  to  the  beauty 
around  him,  and  sees  the  world  as 
different  and  more  enchanting.  It 
highlights  the  loveliness  of  a  com- 
mon day  from  the  moment  when 
the  cock  is  crowing  and  morning's 
at  seven  to  the  hour  when  the  ten- 
der grace  of  a  day  is  dead,  for  the 
child  knows: 
The  night  will  never  stay; 
The  night  will  still  go  by. 
Though  with  a  million  stars 
You  pin  it  to  the  sky. 
Poetry  creates  in  a  child  a  sensi- 
tiveness to  nuances  in  words,  there- 
by increasing  his  vocabulary. 
The  reading  of  great  poetry  to 
children  offers  excursions  into  the 
best  of  life. 
Poetry  iox  the  Middle  Years 
What  can  poetry  lay  against  the 
roots  of  those  in  ''harsh  middle 
life'7  No  age  can  escape  from 
poetry,  and  men  and  women  intent 
upon  the  exigencies  of  everyday 
living  need  its  quick  power  to  in- 
tensify little  moments  of  beauty  or 
remembrance,  to  make  life  more 
vivid  and  colorful,  and  to  drama- 
tize an  event  or  explode  an  emo- 
tion. But,  apart  from  the  fact  that 
the  reading  and  enjoyment  of  poetry 
highlight  cherished  moments  in  the 
drab  routine  of  life,  it  lures  one's 
mind  from  the  commonplace  and 
points  it  to  life  and  beauty. 
Every  time  a  poem  is  read  with 
understanding,  the  reader  becomes 
the  poet  and  identifies  himself  with 
a  like  experience.  Those  who  have 
the  capacity  to  get  a  great  deal  out 
of  poetry  usually  are  the  ones  who 
get  a  great  deal  out  of  life.

250  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1957 
We  are  not,  in  many  communi-  objective.    The  memorizing  of  the 
ties,  utilizing  the  persuasive  power  hues  and  thought  will  come  as  sec- 
of  poetry  as  we  might.  For  example,  ond  nature,  if  people  expose  them- 
in  one  small  town  with  one  public  selves  to  poetry  in  the  right  way. 
library,  of  the  forty-two  poetry  an- 
thologies   and    collections    in    the  -^^^^^  ^nd  Old  Age 
Public  Library,  only  six  have  been  ^s  we  advance  toward  mellow  old 
taken  out  the  past  year.  ^g^^  our  experience  with  recognized 
Poetry  not  only  stirs  one  spiritual-  P^^try  is  very  rewarding.    We  rein- 
ly,  but  it  moves  one  to  action.    Ex-  t^rpret  it  in  the  light  of  accumulat- 
perience  the  ethical  pull  of  the  fol-  ^^  years  of  experience  and  wisdom, 
lowing  lines:  ^^  ^^^  repertoire  of  good  poetry  is 
small,  our  enjoyment  will  be  limited 
Thou  must  be  true  thyself  by  its  narrowness;  if  our  exposure  to 
If  thou  the  truth  would  teach  ....  its  charm  has  been  great,  our  en- 
Horatius  Bonar  joyment  will  be  intensified  and  in- 
^     ,,     ,,       ,,               .,,       1      J    J  creased.    As  I  read  to  a  class  in  Re- 
Breathes  there  the  man,  with  soul  so  dead,  i-ro      •.      r           ,i              .t-      ti 
Who  never  to  himself  hath  said,  ^^^f  Society  from  the  great  English 
This  is  my  own,  my  native  land!  pocts,  I  see  a  memory  struggle  and 
— Scott  stir  behind  the  eyes  of  a  listener, 
_    _    .                      ^                   ^  and  when  a  familiar  voice  sings  out 
Build  Jhee  more  stately  mansions,  O  my  ^^^^  ^^^  ^^^^^^  ^^^  ^^^^  ^.^^^^  ^p 
As  the  swift  seasons  roll!  like  chrome  after  glass  wax,  and  the 
Leave  thy  low-vaulted  past  ....  head  nods  approval,  while  the  lips 
— Holmes  silently  rehearse  a  remembered 
phrase. 
Thoughts  like  the  foregoing  help  it  is  true  that  not  everyone  has 
souls   to   wonder   at   beauty,   hold  inherited  a  love  of  poetry  anymore 
reverence  for  life,   and  surge  with  than  everyone  has  acquired  at  birth 
tolerance  for  mankind.  an  oval  face  or  curly  hair  or  desir- 
If  poetry,  then,  is  so  important,  able  characteristics  of  temperament, 
why  isn't  it  read  more  avidly  by  a  but  even  as  these  qualities  can  be 
greater   majority  of  people?     Is  it  improved,  so  can  we  diminish  the 
because    the    memorizing    of    it    is  deficiency    of    an    insensitive    ear. 
tedious  as  learned  in  our  schools?  More  constant  association  with  the 
It  has  been  suggested  that  many  of  cadence  of  poetry  read  by  oneself 
us  learned  too  late  what  might  have  or  someone  else,  will  condition  the 
brought   us    nearer    to    the    joy   of  ear  to  hear  and  translate  beauty  to 
poetry  if  we  had  learned  it  sooner,  the    mind   and   soul.     Poetry  was 
that  ''this  ability  to  analyze  and  dis-  meant  to  be  a  declamatory  art,  and 
sect  material  structures  according  to  most   of   us   will    find    a   common 
the  rules  of  teachers  and  critics  is  ground  of  enjoyment  in  vocalized 
of  small  importance  in  comparison  poetry.     It  has  been  said  that  no- 
with  the  ability  to  feel  a  beautiful  body  has  ever  really  read  a  poem 
rhythm  and  enjoy  a  fine  poem."  It  until  he  has  read  it  with  his  own 
is  the  day-by-day  pleasant  experience  voice  for  the  pleasure  of  his  own 
with  poetry  that  should  be  our  first  ears.