[Vol44 | April 1957 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Fight | Author: Kohler]
[Fight Cancer With Research, Education, and Service Walter J. Kohler]
246  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1957 
Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Beat  egg  and  add  water.  Add  to  dry  ingredients  and 
mix  well.  For  thin  batter,  remove  Vi  c.  of  the  batter  and  add  2  tbsp.  water.  The 
remaining  portion  is  the  thick  dipping  batter  for  the  shrimps.  Heat  oil  or  fat  in 
frying  pan  to  375°  F.  Dip  fingers  in  the  thin  batter  and  sprinkle  over  fat.  Repeat 
several  times.  Then  dip  shrimp  in  thick  dipping  batter  and  fry  until  golden  brown. 
Drain  on  paper  towel  and  serve  immediately  with  tempura  sauce.  ....     - 
Tempura  Sauce 
2  c.  water  Vi  tsp.  sugar 
Vi    c.  bonito  flakes  Ve,  tsp.  Ajinimoto  (Accent) 
(dried  fish  flakes)  Vi  c.  grated  turnip 
2  tbsp.  shoyu  (soy  sauce)  1  tbsp.  chopped  green  onion 
Vi   tsp.  salt 
Boil  bonito  in  water  three  minutes.  Strain.  Add  seasonings  (except  turnips  and 
green  onion)   and  bring  to  boil.     Cool.     Before  serving,  add  turnip  and  green  onion. 
CJight  L^ancer   viyith  LKesearch,  (bducation,  and  Service 
Walter  /.  Kohhi 
National  Campaign  Chairman 
American  Cancer  Society 
npHE  American  Cancer  Society  is  sending  forth  its  annual  call  for  con- 
tributions to  fight,  on  an  ever-broadening  front,  the  scourge  of  cancer 
which  takes  so  many  lives.  April,  proclaimed  by  the  President  as  Cancer 
Control  Month,  sees  the  launching  of  the  Society's  Crusade  to  raise 
$30,000,000.  Ever  since  1945  the  American  Cancer  Society  has  appealed 
to  the  American  people  for  the  necessary  funds  to  carry  on  its  program  of 
research,  education,  and  service.  Its  accomplishments  are  ever  more  heart- 
ening, but  much  remains  to  be  done.  .  .  . 
The  American  Cancer  Society  is  doing  its  share  in  educating  the  pub- 
lic and  the  medical  profession  and  in  giving  service  where  needed  to 
cancer  patients.  It  has  underway  a  country-wide  program  of  research 
which  supports  more  than  1,000  top-flight  scientists  in  more  than  100 
hospitals,  universities,  and  laboratories,  scientists  who  are  seeking  a  final 
cure  or  preventive  for  this  dread  disease. 
The  response  to  the  April  Crusade  of  the  American  Cancer  Society 
will  determine  the  extent  and  impact  of  the  Society's  educational  drive, 
its  service  in  the  community  which  brings  aid  and  comfort,  and  its  research 
program  which  scientists  now  believe  will  bring  the  ultimate  victory  in 
our  lifetime. 
Help  to  hold  up  the  Sword  of  Hope  which  is  the  Society's  symbol! 
Give  generously!