[Vol44 | April 1957 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The]
The Value of Poetry Elaine C. Southwick OETRY is an _ indigenous P expression of all peoples at all stages of life, and is, perhaps, the most ancient and _persistent of the arts. Man, in a primitive state, expressed himself in rhythmical chanting in order to command attention because he wanted his friends to know and remember the things he saw and did and felt. 'The desire to make another respond to beauty, bravery, sorrow, or any emotional impression led man to intensify the relating of his experiences with repetition and metrical chanting. The famous chants were treasured verbally and considered sacred. 'They are our heritage of primitive poetry, translating for us the basic emotions and activities of a long-buried life. Poetry for the Integration of Life Poetry became an essential part of the healthy integration and menticulture of life. Nationalities have theit epic poems depicting the struggle to emerge from scattered oblivion into a module of importance. Poems have also played an eminent part in the lives of individuals making history. Buiographers point out that as Alexander the Great strove to conquer the world, he carried Homer's Iliad about with him in a gold casket; that the great British general, James Wolfe, told his council, on the eve of victory, that he would rather have written Gray's Elegy than capture Quebec. Field MarPage 248 shall Viscount Wavell said _ of Thompson's Hound of Heaven: "It has a special place in my life as a charm in danger or trouble I have used the magic of its imagery in many times of stress to distract my mind from peril or disaster." Poetry has been many things to many people, but from the chanting figure in the thermal glow of the campfire undulating to the rhythm of: The corn grows by the red rock— Beautifully it grows. To these lyrical lines of a later day: Beautiful for spacious skies, For amber waves of grain. The poet's intent has been identical. He has tried to tell something in pictures—symbols that would stir the imagination and leave a "magic pattern on the mind." A modern critic says, "At its highest moments, poetry is identified with the central meaning of all region and sees one principle behind all creation." But for no two people will poetry mean quite the same thing, because each must interpret it according to his own experiences and tastes. "According to our ages," says Ralph Henry, "we will dust it with nostalgic memory or the joys of discovery." Poetry for Children Of what value is poetry to a child? Poetry is the reflection of childhood. It jumps and skips, soars THE VALUE OF POETRY and flies, laughs and grieves, discovers and treasures. It can move as heavily as an armored truck, or sway as deeply as wind-pushed trees; it can creep like gooseflesh, or trip as lightfootedly as sparrows. It is the seriousness, the impulsiveness, the fleeting desire, and the intense tragedy of childhood. Every child loves, responds to, and remembers some poetry taught to him because it helps to interpret for him his own experiences and reveals to him the hidden beauty of his world. Even when one leaves the fields of childhood, the response to once impressionable verse remains spontaneous and recapturable. Feel your arm circle involuntary to: Hickory, dickory, dock, The mouse ran up the clock. Or experience again the delightful shiver that accompanies: Hark, hark, the dogs do bark. The beggars are coming to town Envision once more the field of clover wherein browses: The gentle cow all red and white I love with all my heart. She gives me cream with all her might To eat on apple tart. Become newly conscious of the injustice of ingratitude by: Blow, blow, thou winter wind! Thou are not so unkind As man's ingratitude. Do you not still remember the curiously magical effect of: The splendor falls on castle walls And snowy summits old in story. The long light shakes across the lakes, And the wild cataract leaps in glory 249 By becoming acquainted with poetry in childhood, one becomes more perceptive to the beauty around him, and sees the world as different and more enchanting. It highlights the loveliness of a common day from the moment when the cock is crowing and morning's at seven to the hour when the tender grace of a day is dead, for the child knows: The night will never stay; The night will still go by, Though with a million stars You pin it to the sky. Poetry creates in a child a sensitiveness to nuances in words, thereby increasing his vocabulary. The reading of great poetry to children offers excursions into the best of life. Poetry for the Middle Years What can poetry lay against the roots of those in "harsh middle life'? No age can escape from poetry, and men and women intent upon the exigencies of everyday living need its quick power to intensify little moments of beauty or remembrance, to make life more vivid and colorful, and to dramatize an event or explode an emotion. But, apart from the fact that the reading and enjoyment of poetry highlight cherished moments in the drab routine of life, it lures one's mind from the commonplace and points it to life and beauty. Every time a poem is read with understanding, the reader becomes the poet and identifies himself with a like experience. Those who have the capacity to get a great deal out of poetry usually are the ones who get a great deal out of life. 250 We are not, in many communities, utilizing the persuasive power of poetry as we might. For example, in one small town with one public library, of the forty-two poetry anthologies and collections in the Public Library, only six have been taken out the past year. Poetry not only stirs one spiritually, but it moves one to action. Experience the ethical pull of the following lines: Thou must be true thyself If thou the truth would teach Horatius Bonar Breathes there the man, with soul so dead, Who never to himself hath said, This is my own, my native land! —Scott Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll! Leave thy low-vaulted past —Holmes Thoughts like the foregoing help souls to wonder at beauty, hold reverence for life, and surge with tolerance for mankind. If poetry, then, is so important, why isn't it read more avidly by a greater majority of people? Is it because the memorizing of it is tedious as learned in our schools? It has been suggested that many of us learned too late what might have brought us nearer to the joy of poetry if we had learned it sooner, that "'this ability to analyze and dissect material structures according to the rules of teachers and critics is of small importance in comparison with the ability to feel a beautiful thythm and enjoy a fine poem." It is the day-by-day pleasant experience with poetry that should be our first RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 objective. 'The memorizing of the lines and thought will come as second nature, if people expose themselves to poetry in the right way. Poetry and Old Age As we advance toward mellow old age, Our experience with recognized poeiry is very rewarding. We reinterpret it in the light of accumulated years of experience and wisdom. If our repertoire of good poetry is small, our enjoyment will be limited by its narrowness; if our exposure to its charm has been great, our enjoyment will be intensified and increased. As I read to a class in Relief Society from the great English poets, I see a memory struggle and stir behind the eyes of a listener, and when a familiar voice sings out from the pages, the face lights up like chrome after glass wax, and the head nods approval, while the lips silently rehearse a remembered phrase. It is true that not everyone has inherited a love of poetry anymore than everyone has acquired at birth an oval face or curly hair or desirable characteristics of temperament, but even as these qualities can be improved, so can we diminish the deficiency of an insensitive ear. More constant association with the cadence of poetry read by oneself or someone else, will condition the ear to hear and translate beauty to the mind and soul. Poetry was meant to be a declamatory art, and most of us will find a common ground of enjoyment in vocalized poetry. It has been said that nobody has ever really read a poem until he has read it with his own voice for the pleasure of his own ears. THE VALUE OF POETRY The Lasting Value of Poetry Once one succumbs to the charm of poetry, it offers the reader valuable vicarious experiences. Know that through its power one can walk in the moccasins of the Indian or parade in the sandaled feet of a queen; explore the outposts of civilization or crouch in the chimney corner; revel with the rich or pauperize with the poor. It comes with an Aladdin's lamp to transport one anyplace, anytime, into old situations made new with more vivid colors and wider dimensions. Poetry helps one to see through, as well as with his eyes, even as did William Blake who, when asked as the sun rose, if he did not see it as a round disk of fire somewhat like a guinea, answered, "Oh, no, no, I see an innumerable company of heavenly 251 hosts crying, 'Holy, Holy is the Lord God Almighty.' " This power to translate life into beauty, truths, sincerity, and nobleness is the heritage of every one of God's children. It has been said that the greatest power we know is the power of speech, "but they speak to small purpose nowadays if they never use the bravest and most beautiful human speech, which is poetry." Poetry is both the earliest expression of primitive people, and the highest expression of civilization. Its greatest value is still to reveal miracles of creation and to "spread the contagion of beauty" that we, too, might (as Blake):. See a world in a grain of sand, And a heaven in a wild flower; Hold infinity in the palm of your hand, And eternity in an hour. Meeting Place Catherine E. Berry I have come back to our meeting place, (How long ago it seems!) To see if I can find a trace Of those first lovely dreams. But time has wrought its changes here The same as in your heart, The love we found that yesteryear Has left no tell-tale part; Only in the wind that blows With hint of twilight rain, Whispers a memory that knows This was a magic lane! Going Modern Frances C. Yost ELL Gordon looked up from the new wall-to-wall carpet, and rested her eyes on the soft tones of the rose drawn drapes. Then her eyes passed appreciatively over the new three-piece sectional, which filled the big corner opposite the new blonde television set. Her eyes were pools of complete satisfaction until they turned to the old upright piano standing tall and ungainly against the wall. "Tom, that old piano has to go," Nell said determinedly. "Gol" If Nell had said to go set fire to the new barn, 'Tom would not have been more dumbfounded. "The piano has to go where?" "Out." Nell said emphatically. "It's obsolete. It ruins the modern effect in the whole living room. Why, look at the scroll on the front of it! 'They've made pianos plain finished for at least twentyfive years." Nell showed her distaste as she frowned at the old piano. "But we've had the piano for forty years. In its day, our piano was the finest thing in woodcarving." 'Tom spoke defensively, as he would of a friend or relative who was being chastised. "In its day!' Nell spoke up. "That's exactly what I mean. Upright pianos were the thing in Wilson's day, and need I point out it is now the year 1957? Why, we're not driving around in a surrey just because it was the thing to do when we were married. FEverything's low slung these days, cars, furniture, Page 252 and pianos. This high upright spoils the effect of the lowness and beauty of the whole living room. The whole house, I might add." "What do you plan to do, Nell, give it to one of the married children?" Nell groaned. "They wouldn't appreciate a big antique in their modern apartments. We'll take it to Salt Lake City and trade it in on a new spinet,' Nell explained matter-of-factly. "Of course, we can't expect to get much out of this old piano, but it might take the sting off the price of a new one." "A new piano?" 'Tom looked puzzled. "You've said a number of times, Nell, that our old upright has better tone than some of these new blonde beauties." "True, I have said that about the tone, but I'm not playing the piano as much since we have television, and the children aren't around to practice. It isn't the tone of the piano I'm objecting to, it's the contrast with this modern furniture," Nell went on to say. "I've thought the thing through completely, 'Tom, before I ever mentioned the subject to you. The only thing to do is get rid of the old piano." "Mother, I don't mind your fixing up the house. I sort of like the new wall-to-wall carpeting, feels comfy on my bare toes. And this three-piece sectional, it's pretty and comfortable to lie on. And the drapes, I like them the way they can be closed when the lights are bright. But the piano! We started out our married life with this piano. GOING MODERN It's like trading in our firstborn for a modern 1957 baby. I remember the day we bought the piano at the auction sale as if it were yesterday." KK OK ELL and Tom had been married in the Logan 'Temple, and the very next day, quite by coincidence, the furniture in the old Madsen house was being sold at auction. Tom had saved one hundred dollars to buy furniture. If they were careful, they could buy the essential things to start housekeeping. Nell and 'Tom had come early to spot the furniture they wanted so they could bid on it. They had decided on the kitchen range, the kitchen table and chairs, and, if they could spread the money far enough, the entire set of bedroom furniture. "Tom, we don't need furniture for the whole house to start with. We can close up all the rooms but the kitchen and bedroom," Nell had said thriftily, as she pushed a wisp of wavy blonde hair from her brow. To Tom, his eighteen-year-old bride was enchanting and beautiful. "Gee, Nell, that's mighty nice of you, to be so thrifty and thoughtful. Of course, we'll get a piano for you as soon as we can. Let's just walk over and look at this one." Nell was just sort of tinkling the keys when the auctioneer stood on an overturned box and started shouting above the din, "How much am I bid for this beautiful fancy piano?" Nell, a little embarrassed at being in the spotlight, stepped quickly back from the piano. "What am I bid for the fancy piano?" the auctioneer repeated. Nell looked about; no one seemed 253 even vaguely interested in the piano. She never remembered being at an auction sale before, but she had heard that sometimes things went real cheap when people didn't run the bid up. Why, if a person could buy a piano for, say fifty dollars, that would still leave something for necessary furniture. "What am I bid for the fancy piano?" the auctioneer shouted a little louder. "Forty-nine dollars,' Nell spoke timidly. "The lady opens the bid on this fine piano at the too-low price of forty-nine dollars," the auctioneer almost snickered. A laugh swept through the crowd. "Who will offer seventy-five dollars?" "Seventy-five dollars!" A man shouted from the rear of the crowd. Nell looked about to see who was bidding. She remembered seeing the man talking to the auctioneer before the auction started. Had he been planted there to bid? "The gentleman bids seventy-five dollars! Who will offer one hundred for this fine piano?" "Seventy-six dollars," timidly. "The lady offers a mere pittance. Only seventy-six dollars, the lady offers." A second laugh swept the crowd, which was followed by a bid of eighty-five dollars from the man in the rear. "The gentleman offers eighty-five dollars. Who will raise it to one hundred?" the auctioneer was begging. Nell stole a side glance at the black kitchen range. A_ person could build a table, and boxes could Nell said 254 be covered for chairs. Boxes could be used to hold the bed springs, and she could drape the bed real pretty with a skirt. But a person had to have a stove to cook on and to keep warm. Perhaps the old cook stove might sell for as low as ten or eleven dollars. Nell's eyes wandered again to the piano. A piano was the heart of a home. 'This piano had a better tone than the one her folks had paid several hundred dollars for. She would make all kinds of sacrifices if she could get this piano. She could even endure the insinuations from the auctioneer and the laughing people. "Who will offer one hundred dollars for this fine piano?" the auctioneer repeated. "Eighty-nine dollars," Nell said. "The lady did not hear me. 'The lady offers only eighty-nine dollars," the auctioneer said. "Who will top the lady's bid?" "Ninety dollars!" the man in the rear shouted. Nell Gordon, by now, did not care if the whole crowd laughed their heads off. She only cared about making this fine piano hers. She turned around and glared at the bidder in the rear. "I am offered ninety dollars! Who will offer one hundred?" the auctioneer shouted. "Ninety-one dollars and no more,' Nell spoke determinedly. Then she turned and glared at her opponent. "Going once! Ninety-one twice! Sold to the lady with the wavy blonde hair for ninety-one dollars!" Suddenly Nell Gordon realized their predicament. She and 'Tom had come to the auction to buy necessary furniture, stove, table, cupRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 board, bed, and she had spent almost all of I'om's money on a piano. It would take the remainder of his hundred dollars to get someone to haul the piano home. She turned to 'Tom expecting him to chide her. Of course, he could say, "All our money gone for a piano, what do you plan to sleep on and to cook on?" But 'Tom didn't say those things. "Nell, let's get out of here. We'll need to hire a wagon to haul our piano home." 'Tom took her arm and escorted her through the crowd as if she were a queen. Now Nell remembered the old stove 'Tom's aunt had loaned them. The oven door was gone, and 'Tom had fashioned one out of tin. It did not have a catch but was held shut with a stick propped against it. 'Tom had built most of their furniture. But, even from the start, their friends had liked to gather at their house to dance or sing because they had the luxury of a piano. Then when the children came along, one by one, until they numbered an even dozen, Nell had taught each one to play the piano. What warm and wonderful memories she had of the family gathered around the piano singing! * OK OK OK ELL wiped a tear with her apron, as if to erase that memory. Then she said: "Yes, Tom, we'll go to Salt Lake City tomorrow and make the trade." I Tom Gordon had learned through the years not to argue with a lady. "We can tun into Salt Lake City tomorrow if you wish and look at new pianos," 'Tom said, aftably. "We'll go in the pick-up and take GOING MODERN the old piano with us." Nell decided. "The thing weighs close to a ton,' Keith, their son, stated, as he and his brother, Emery, helped Tom load the piano into the back of the pick-up, and waved their parents on their way. As the two rattled along in the pick-up, Nell glanced sideways at Tom. He was a tall, lean man, and in his brown tweed jacket and flannel slacks, he had the appearance of a college man. Today Nell could not study his eyes or read his thoughts. "Look back, Nell, and make sure the piano's okay," 'Tom would say occasionally. "We don't want anything to happen to the piano." "We'd probably do as well if we rolled it in the Bear River, and just bought a new blonde spinet outright," Nell laughed. "All I can say for you, is, you surely have gone modern all of a sudden." 'Tom spoke defensively, and then silence enveloped them. As they rounded the point of the mountain, their eyes picked out the temple which had been forty years in the making, then Tom broke the silence. "Nell, we're nearly there, and P've got to see a fellow about some machinery. If you'd like to do some of your shopping, I could come for you in about a half hour." "That's fine. I did want to get some material to line a quilt for the next Relief Society work meeting. [Il meet you here by the Brigham Young Monument corner in a half hour," Nell said, as she alighted from the truck. She admitted to herself, it was a little embarrassing coming to town 255 in a truck, especially with a big old piano tied up in patchwork quilts in the back. Who would people think they were? Promptness was one of 'Tom's virtues, and in half an hour he drove up in the pick-up and Nell climbed in before the light turned green. "We might as well start at this piano store, and see what they have in the line of new low blondes," Tom said almost mischievously. S they entered the store, Nell found herself in the center of a dozen or more new pianos. Each of them was different, yet pleasingly low and beautiful. Nell fancied each of them, in turn, in her lovely redecorated living room. Yes, she thought, any one would look lovely. After forty years, she and 'Tom had come to the financial position where they could pay cash for most anything they desired. All she had to do was make her selection and any one of the beautiful new pianos could be hers, and by night, they would have it in their living room with the other modern things. But they might as well find out fist, what the dealer would offer them as a trade-in. "Would you look at our old piano, before we decide on a new one?" Nell asked. "Td be glad to make you an offer," the dealer said. The three walked to the curb where the truck stood, and the dealer jumped up on the back of the truck, and removing the two quilts 'Tom and the boys had carefully covered over the piano, he sat down and started playing. "How much do you offer?" Nell 256 asked, but the dealer seemed engrossed in Schubert's "Moonlight Sonata." It was as if he had forgotten his business entirely as he shifted to "Largo," and followed that with several Strauss waltzes. Nell nodded at 'Tom to ask him to hurry the dealer. It was a long way home, and they should start right away, if they were to get the new piano unloaded before dark. But Tom, like the dealer, seemed to be deep in the heart of the music and did not seem to hear Nell's urgent whispers. Nell turned slightly and noticed that a crowd had gathered to listen to the music on the piano. She bit her lip and murmured, "I bought this old upright forty years ago at an auction sale, looks like it's up to me to dispose of it." She walked over close to the dealer and shouted up at him, "How much will you give us On a new piano?" The dealer stopped short, leaving the "Blue Danube" in mid-air. "Mrs. Gordon, Pll make you a trade straight across. You can have any of the smaller pianos in the store for this one." "What?" Surely Nell had heard the man incorrectly. Had he said a deal straight across? Nell Gordon's puzzled face asked why. "Well, Mrs. Gordon, call me an antique collector if you wish, but I collect these rare old pianos. 'Take your choice of any of the smaller pianos," the dealer repeated. Nell turned then toward the pianos placed in the circle near the front of the music store. They were beautiful, and they would fit in nicely with her new, modern livRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 ing room, but she turned again to the old upright standing forlornly in the back of the truck. It sort of seemed like a child which had been driven from its home for no other reason than that it had grown up, and wasn't cute anymore. Nell walked out of the store to where 'om and the dealer were making arrangements for the trade. She heard the dealer say: "You can unload the piano at my place, and come around and pick up the lady's choice. I know this piano's heavy, I'll send a couple of fellows with you to unload it." He turned and shouted into the store, "Mike and Slim, can you come here a minute?" ELL glanced at Tom. It was like Tom to wait quietly and let her pick out the piano she wanted. But if the dealer wanted their piano so much, he was willing to trade straight across, she had a notion to keep it herself. The men were coming to help unload their old upright, she had to decide quickly, or it would be too late. "I guess Pve changed my mind about trading pianos," Nell said. Then by way of explanation she added, "It would be sort of like trading our firstborn for a 1957 baby. I realize 'm probably throwing over a fine offer, but, well, I might as well admit it, there are a lot of memories stored in the strings of this old upright." Nell Gordon turned to Tom and said, "Let's go." Then it was, his face shone with happiness. Nimble as a college boy, Tom jumped on the back of the pickup and wrapped the quilts lov- GOING MODERN ingly around the piano again and tied it securely. As they jogged along in the front of the pick-up, Tom kept asking: "How's she riding?" And Nell would glance back with the same concern with which she had watched the piano being hauled by team and wagon to their home forty years ago. Nell decided on the long ride home that she would play lots of good music on the old piano yet, and so would her children and grandchildren. 'The trouble was probably that they had watched tel- 257 evision too much lately and hadn't had enough family song-fests. Nell turned to Tom and spoke softly, "Tom, now that we have the house remodeled, what do you say we have the children all in for an evening? After dinner we could gather around the piano and sing like we used to." "I think it's a good idea. ['ve let my tenor get sort of rusty lately watching the television shows." Tom patted her hand softly. Nell squeezed his hand in return and said, "And Tom, I'm glad I didn't go too modern." ~~} She Shree Wise Women Fredrika Clinch I asked three women to write their greatest joy. The first woman replied: "TI have many joys, but my greatest joy is getting along with people. It takes lots of living and learning to get along with people. I fill my mind with love and good will toward all. "The happiest people are those who share joy and sorrow of others. The needs of others leaves no room for mental disorder through self-pity. Woman begins to pity herself she loses power and _ initiative. Failure.'' The second woman wrote: Alertness to When a She is on the road of "One of my greatest joys is keeping my mind and hands busy. There is no reason why age should put me in the rocking chair to dream about the past. Let my trained brain and fingers rust away in idleness? Happiness, and is bad for the health. Work occupies the mind. The busy Why should I Idleness breeds discontent, unmind is the healthy mind. There is no need to sit idle; no one gets to the point where she can't learn more." The third one expressed herself: "One of my greatest enjoyments is to greet a new day. One by one the stars disappear. From the horizon comes a shaft of light. I see the highest mountains catch the first beams of the morning sun, while the valley below is still submerged in shadow. I drink the glory of the unfolding day as the mounting sun reveals new charm and fresh beauty. I paid nothing for this new day that is unfolding before me. It is given to me as a gift, one of God's greatest gifts, because with it are all the wonders of his — I have learned to appreciate the beauty of the present and to have faith in the future." A New Quilt for an Old Home Jane T. Mattice President, Pima Ward Relief Society, St. Joseph Stake (Arizona) N the summer of 1955, my husband and I were taking a vacation, motoring through the eastern part of the United States. We made a point of visiting the many places of interest in Church history. One day, about noon, we stopped at the Joseph Smith Farm and were very graciously welcomed by Sister Nellie Hathaway, who, with her husband, were missionary guides at the farm. After visiting a few minutes, she learned we were Church members and asked if we wanted her to tell the story of the Prophet and the incidents that happened at the farm and in the Sacred Grove near by. Of course we wanted to hear the story, as told by our missionaries to the thousands of visitors who stop at this historic place each year. As we talked, I told her I was Relief Society president in the Pima Ward in Arizona. She immediately asked if we would like to make a quilt for the Peter Whitmer Home. At this time the home was being restored. I felt sure our sisters would be pleased to have an opportunity to help in this restoration, so I told Sister Hathaway I would ask the sisters and let her know. When I returned home and told the Relief Society members of the opportunity offered us to help, they were delighted. We wondered about the pattern and the colors to use. We needed an old pattern, and one well known in 1830. For assistance we turned to our older sisters. We have many of these lovely ladies who are in their seventies and eighties. They are experienced quilt makers and wonderful quilters. 'They discussed it among themselves and decided we should make "The Double Irish Chain" in red and white. Several remembered that their mothers and grandmothers had such a quilt. So we quickly accepted their suggestion. We wanted this quilt as near perfect as we could make it. The little blocks were two inches square, and we pulled threads for all of them, to make sure they were true squares. The beautiful finished quilt was reward enough for our efforts. It was 68" x 100" when finished. Our members all helped, even some who did not attend regularly came to offer assistance and add a few stitches. A few MIA girls asked to help, and some of our sisters from the Pima Second Ward came to help. These sisters had been members of our Society until our ward was divided. One dear old lady who is ninety-seven years old came to add her bit, and another sister, who is too blind to quilt, came and threaded needles for the others. She has learned to use a needle threader and is a great help on work day. It was wonderful to see the interest these sisters, old and young, were taking in our project. To them this wasn't just another quilt. It was Page 258 A NEW QUILT FOR AN OLD HOME 259 Mrs. Walter H. Moss QUILT IN THE UPSTAIRS BEDROOM, PETER WHITMER HOME very very special. 'Their conversation as they worked often went like this, "I never dreamed I would have the opportunity to help in such a wonderful undertaking. I may never see the Peter Whitmer home, but I am so glad to have a part in its restoration." On one corner of the lining we embroidered "Made and presented by the Pima Ward Relief Society, St. Joseph Stake, Arizona, September 1955." When it was finished we displayed it in the foyer of the chapel one Sunday. The enthusiasm of our members had been contagious, and all the ward wanted to see this much-talked-about quilt before it was sent on its way. Our husbands and children were just as proud of the finished product as were we. Soon the quilt was sent back East to its home. Sister Hathaway was pleased and very liberal in her praise and thanks for our efforts. She took it to Sister Moss, who, with her husband, Brother Walter H. Moss, were missionary guides at the Peter Whitmer Home. Sister Moss wrote to express her thanks and appreciation for the work of our Relief Society sisters. She sent the picture showing "Our Quilt" in the upstairs bedroom. Relief Society and Relief Society women are wonderful. If there is some worthy work to be done, our sisters are always willing and anxious to be of assistance. Two of a Kind Maude Rubin with her damp hair, trying to put it up in pin-curls. It was just wavy enough to be stubborn. In the mirror she could see Mother Harding, Jim's mother, watching her with polite interest. But without offering to help. Immaculate as always, in a smart blue suit and small blue hat, Mother Harding had stopped in to wait for the bus, saying, "I thought I'd go into the city for lunch and the S ALLY Harding was struggling style show at Simmons'. It's such a lovely day!" Mother Harding might have been a fashion model herself, Sally thought wistfully as she looked at her—"What the Mature Woman Will Wear." So slim and straight, hair smoothly waved, every detail perfect. Definitely ungrandmotherly. It was a disappointment, a hurt that Sally had not been able to overcome. She glared at her own wet brown locks and jabbed the last pin in viciously, so that it pricked her scalp. "It never looks nght, somehow. Especially the back curls. No matter how hard I try!" "IT was never very good at fixing hair, either, Sally. But Muriel used to be very clever with it. She did mine while she was at home. And she decided that I should always wear it this way." She touched the smooth gray waves. "It is more becoming, I guess. But sometimes I'd like to try some other style. Muriel was Jim's sister. Hirtyish, a reporter on a New York daily, capable of managing the entire city Page 260 if she had to, Sally thought. Muriel had come to see them last fall, just between planes. But while she was there, she had arranged her mothers furniture in the small cottage at the end of the garden; had outlined the winter's activities for her mother, making numerous lists and schedules, marking the calendar with blue pencil. She designed the new rose garden for Jim and Sally, decided on the exact shade of wallpaper for their living room. "The only possible color for this room!" It was right, too, perfect. Sally admired her efficiency and was more than a little afraid of her. Now Mother Harding reached down and brushed a tiny speck of lint from her skirt. "Never mind, Sally. Your hair will look nice— it always does. And when the children are grown, you'll have lots of time. 'Then you can go to the beauty shop. It sort of relaxes one, I find." She smiled brightly, pulled on white gloves as she went down the walk toward the bus stop. Sally stood in the doorway and waved to her as she got on the bus. She admitted to herself that she was almost envious of her mother-in-law. Jealous of her smart daintiness, of her leisure, her interests. It must be nice to have the whole "ay free, to dress up and go places.. I sigh we could be real friends, Sally said to herself. Sally's clear gray eyes were clouded as she thought, she doesn't need me, or the children. Not with her concerts, her shopping. TWO OF A KIND Briskly Sally whisked the breakfast dishes into the sink, turned on the hot water and said to herself, "Well, Madge says I don't know how lucky I am! A mother-in-law who doesn't interfere, doesn't try to tun my house. Mother Harding certainly doesn't." Madge Jones was their nearest neighbor, Sally's only friend since the Hardings had moved to 'The Acre. The day was perfect, without the humid midwest heat that would come later in the season. Sally decided to work in the garden. Jim was on a buying trip to Des Moines and wouldn't be home for another three days. The new rosebed needed attention. She might as well get started on it today as any time. The baby was still asleep, Judy and fim Third were playing contentedly in the orchard, their two apple trees. She tied a scarf around her head and went happily to work. UT before night the early May warmth had changed to sultriness. 'The eastern sky was ominously black. When the first white glare of lightning streaked the clouds, a deafening clap of thunder followed. Sally shivered, listened to the next crash rip through the airless dusk and rumble to a slow silence. The first big splatters of rain struck the window as she looked out to see if Mother Harding was home yet. Yes, there was a light in the cottage. The flashes came faster now, closer together, with no space between their brief brilliance and the immediate thunder. Sally hurried to the wall plug, 261 disconnected the TV. The children weren't watching it. 'They were too excited and thrilled by the storm. Hardings, both of them—afraid of nothing. "Mommy! Mommy!" Jim 'Third turned toward her, all excitement, elation. Then Judy piped up, "It was a tree that time, Mommy!" She turned from the window to demonstrate with her thin arms just how the lightning had forked. "A great big fire-tree in the sky! It filled the whole sky, Mommy!" Judy at six was something of a poet. Sally wished miserably that she could see some of the beauty in it. Well, at least they weren't frightened, thank goodness for that. When she spoke, she managed to keep her voice level, matter-of-fact: "Don't stand so close to the window, children. You—you—might catch cold!" Just how silly can you sound? She wondered. Paying no attention to her, probably not even hearing her, they pressed closer and closer to the glass. The next glare was brilliant, changing to an eerie blue—white as the jagged streaks shot up across the sky. Sally felt her hands grow damp, numb with terror, not knowing what to do next. To calm herself, she walked across the room and pulled the plug of the iron cord and put away the board. No ironing tonight. "Now I wish I'd gone ahead with it this morning. But who would imagine? This early? The first week of May?" she said aloud. She had purposely left the ironing for tonight, so they could watch 262 I'V while she worked. 'That was one of the few jobs she could manage and look at TV. 'This was the night for the Disney program, and she had planned that they would all watch it together, a nice family thing to do. She had even thought of asking Mother Harding to come and sit with her and the children, but gave that up. She would probably be bored. Together. 'To Sally that togetherness was all important. All the family doing things together. Something to remember all their lives. ER thoughts went on: If Mother Harding were only a little bit like my Granny! I thought the children would mean so much to her.... If she were a normal Grandma, she would be here with us. Right now. She wouldn't let us stay here alone... About to be struck with lightning! Sally looked again at the cottage. Mother Harding had drawn the Venetian blind, but the light still showed through the slits. She wished again that Jim were home. I wouldn't be half so scared with another grownup in the house. I'm always sensible—well, almost sensible—when Jim is here. Wham! Another earth-rocking crash. I can't stand it, she thought, I can't. But there was nothing else to do. Maybe there was. Maybe Madge Jones would come up and stay with her, if she knew. She stumbled to the telephone, dialed frantically. No answer. Again. Still no answer. She listened, realized that there was no dial-tone. The phone was dead. She placed the receiver back in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 its cradle, straightened it carefully. At that moment the lights went out. She ran through the dark to the back door, knocking her knee on a chair on the way, opened her mouth to call to Mother Harding, to scream for help, and remembered just in time. No screaming, no fear in front of the children. Now, with the lights out, she couldn't even see the cottage through the rain. The cottage where Mother Harding lived her own secure and worryfree life. Sally swallowed hard and forced herself to go back into the living room. It was because of the cottage that they had bought The Acre. After Jim's father had died, Sally had wanted Jim's mother to come to live with them. "Why couldn't we be all together, Jim, as a family should be? She'll be so lonesome, and I get lonesome, too, Jim, sometimes. We always had so many at home." She had added, "I'd love your mother, Jim. I know I would. And she could stay with the children sometimes, so we could go out. I'd know they were safe with their Granny!" She had stopped, looked at Jim. He had been smiling queerly. "Oh, not often, Jim. I don't mean for her to do a lot of babysitting. But just once in a while, for something special. Jim, I—I can't bear to leave them with a stranger. Not while the baby's so little." He had leaned down and kissed the top of her head lightly. "No, Sally, it just wouldn't do. Mother is different, independent; and keeps very busy." Jim grinned. TWO OF A KIND "But, Jim, I don't care. She's the children's Granny. They'd love her. And she'd love them. I know she would." "Of course. But, Sally, Mother wouldn't have time for baby-sitting. She's always going somewhere, concerts, meetings, and lectures. You're so domestic, darling. You wouldn't know about women like Mother!" He had hugged her. Oh, wouldn't [? Sally had thought. I'm no more domestic than anyone, Mr. Harding. But how could I go to concerts? Just how? She had bitten her lips to keep the words inside, unsaid. Jim had continued, "And I've always heard that no house is big enough for two women, Sally. I'm not taking any chances with my women!" He had grinned happily and the subject had been closed. Except in Sally's mind: 'That's all you know about it, Jim Harding! My folks all lived together and worked together and had a wonderful time. Granny lived with us always and what would we ever have done without her? And Aunt Jennie part of the time, and old Uncle Tim, too, until he died. That's all a mistake about families not getting along together. And I happen to know what I'm talking about! © UT it was settled as Jim decided, of course. So they had bought The Acre, out in the country, but on the bus line. With a separate cottage for Mother Harding. When Mother Harding moved in, Sally could see what Jim meant. Always busy, always smartly dressed, the older woman lived in a different world from Sally's. Even here, 263 where she knew no one, Mother Harding found plenty to keep her interested, apparently. Plenty of things to do, places to go. Always calm, pleasant; but never helpful, never just "family." At the second loud crash of thunder within as many seconds, Sally ran upstairs to see if the baby was all right. She carried a flashlight, played its light over the crib and whispered, "There he is, bless his heart, sound asleep through all this racket!" She shivered at the next blue-white flare that highlighted the room. Downstairs again, hunting for matches and a candle, Sally listened to the downpour and the excited chatter of Judy and Jim Third. Judy shouted, "There it is again, Mommy! 'That fire-tree, I mean!" Then Jim Third's loud roar, "Bang! Bang-bang! Roar-r-r-r!_ Rumm-m-m-ble."" He was dramatizing it. Sally reached out vaguely till her hand touched a chair. 'Then she let herself down carefully, her legs feeling limp, boneless. She couldn't take much more of this. Without someone to hold to, someone to talk to, she was finding out exactly how worthless she really was. Not the sensible, self-confident mother she wanted to be, pretended to be. She finally found a stub of a candle, lighted it, set it on the mantle. IM was the only one who knew about her terror of thunderstorms; and even to him she had never let go entirely, never dared break down and cry, which is what she felt like doing right now. How Muriel would despise her. Now why should I think of Muriel at a time like this? Because 264 Muriel is such a Harding, I suppose. And I'm not. I never will be! Muriel would think her brother had married a_ regular little simpleton! The next crash was a_ rending detonation, a resounding catastrophe of sound. Close, close. It must have struck the house. Sally ran to the window, looked out past the children's heads. No, but it had struck the old elm. In the glare of the next flash she saw the huge limb torn from the trunk, lying lopsided across the gate. Well, that does it! She thought. I can't take this any longer. Not alone I can't. I'll go get Mother Harding. No matter if she despises me forever! Aloud she said, "I'll be right back, children!' She grabbed up Jim's old coat, threw it over her head and, with the dimming flashlight in her hand, ran pell-mell across the garden, sploshing through rain and _ puddles, straight for the cottage. Why didn't Mother Harding light a candle? There wasn't a glimmer of light through the glass door. In her panic, Sally pushed the door open without knocking, turned the flashlight wildly about the room, and saw Mother Harding. She was on her knees by the bed, her arms stretched out on the spread, two pillows stuffed tight against her ears. At Sally's voice, she jumped, startled, and let out a stifled scream. Her face was strained and swollen with tears, distorted with fear. In the weak light from the flash, she looked ghastly. Her hair, always so perfect, was rumpled, wild, where her fingers had run through it. "Oh, Sally—I'm so _ ashamed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 You'll think I'm terrible! Scared of lightning. It's so silly. But, Sally, I always have been horribly scared." Her words stumbled over one another, poured out frantically. "When the children were little, I had to hide my fear.' She was sobbing against Sally's wet coat, shaking spasmodically. GALLY put her arms tight about her. "Come, come, now, Mother. There's nothing to be afraid of. You've got me, right here." She felt her tremble, hugged her closer. "But we must get back to the children. Come on, let's make a run for it. It's a regular cloudburst!"" She actually managed a laugh. Her voice sounded firm and cheerful, as if she were talking to Jim Third or to Judy. Holding onto each other, they hurried through the rain and got to the house just as the flashlight gave out completely. 'They slammed the door against the storm. Together, they put the protesting children to bed, then sat in the living room. 'The stub of candle had burned out, too. The only light was from the brief flames of lightning. Mother Harding was talking, saying things she would never have said in daylight. "Muriel was always strong, Sally, different from me. Never afraid of anything, a Harding. She warns me in every letter not to interfere, not to bother you and Jim. 'To keep busy." She sneezed. Sally put her arm around her and rubbed her cold hands. Sally's fear was gone, completely gone. TWO OF A KIND She listened to the words that were pouring out: "Muriel's a dear girl, of course, gets me the concert tickets, reserves the seats, everything." She drew a long breath. "But I always have such a hard time to remember what I hear and I get tired of going out." 265 rocking's wonderful for them. Gives them security." "Then you—you wouldn't mind leaving them with me? Sometimes? Let me take care of them, when you and Jim go out, I mean?" Could this be the reserved, poised Mother Harding? "Why, Mother!" Sally giggled. "And here I thought you loved to go! I've been so ashamed because I knew so little about things!" "Sally, all I really want is to be a good comfortable Grandma. 'I'o stay home evenings. Read _ stories to Jim Third—cuddle little Judy. And I'd love to rock the baby...." Then, quickly and timidly, "But I know the book says you mustn't!" "Not my book, Mother. It says Sally thought happily, so you are like my Granny, after all! Aloud she said, "Why, Mother, I'd love it! And so would the children. Of course, we would!" The rain lessened and_ then stopped. 'There was one last brief flash of lightning. "And, Sally, Ill never let them know that I'm scared of thunder. Not ever!" Mother Harding promised. > Make Shem Feel Secure Caroline Eyring Miner I'S a big world, and little people in it sometimes feel afraid, insecure. Are we as parents doing what we can to help our children feel secure in this changing, troubled, and uncertain world? A certain wise mother I know, whose husband traveled all the time and moved her from pillar to post, found a way to help her three little ones feel secure and at home no matter where they were. As soon as the family moved to a new town, the mother would take her little children out for a walk. If it were daytime, they noted that the same sun shone over them in each place they went, that the sun is unchangeable. 'They looked for mountains or ocean or river which, too, endure and are the same. Also never changing are the signs of the seasons—emerald blades of new grass or birds nesting in spring; flowers in full bloom in the warm summer; grain and fruit mpening im autumn; frost and ice and snow in delicate tracery in winter. If this little family arrived in a new town at night they walked together under the stars. It was thrilling to find the same moon and the same friendly -constellations dotting the sky. It was reassuring also, and gave them the feeling that God was in his heaven; hence all was nght with the world. How wise this mother was, I learned last summer when I traveled around the world and lost sight and sound of many familiar things—especially of those that are man-made. When we became uncertain of things and lonely, we walked under the stars, the same that we had known at home. We saw the mountains solid and serene; we felt the joy of finding familiar flowers in blossom, familiar trees rustling in the lazy afternoon breeze. We were at peace and secure again. We knew that God was in his heaven, so all was right with the world, as Browning so poignantly wrote. Let us teach our children peace and security out under the stars or in the early dawn watching the world awaken, so that they will be at home and feel secure the world around. A Look Backward and Forward, Relief Society All the Way Annie W. Westover mM first contact with Relief Society, as an organization, dates back about sixty years, at which time my mother was acting secretary under Sister Isabelle Horne, President of the Fourteenth Ward Relief Society, Salt Lake City, Utah. Because my mother had no one with whom to leave me, I always went along to meetings. While she sat at the table with her clerical work, I sat at the feet of the dear sisters and threaded their needles as they sewed carpet rags and pieced quilt blocks. My mother had very decided opinions about keeping little fingers active, and when I was six years old, I could sew, knot, and crochet. That winter I knitted my first hose, striped red and white, and of heavy yarn. My little fat legs so striped made me think of the giraffes in my painted storybook. It makes me itch yet when I think of those hose. That winter I also crocheted lace for the caps we gave as Christmas presents to the old folks. In those days whoever thought of sleeping without a nightcap, from grandpa to the baby? On Saturdays my regular job was to go the rounds of the older sisters who happened to be on mother's visiting teacher list, and with a basket as heavy as a youngster could manage, I delivered little extras for Sunday dinners that otherwise would not have been found on those particular tables. This, of course, was a secret between mother and me and made me feel very important. How those dear women would look forward to my weekly calls, and sometimes they had a sweet morsel laid up for me. My next contact with Relief Society was when I was a young matron in 1899, when I was secretary. We lived on a ranch about two miles over rough mountain roads from the meetinghouse and our only means of transportation was a farm wagon and team. Indians were bad; we always had to have a male escort along, carrying firearms ready for the occasion should it arise. Our fancywork department included such practical instructions as carding and spinning, dyeing both wool and cotton, weaving cloth and carpets, knitting hose, mittens, sweaters, caps, nubbies, mufflers, and petticoats. We gleaned straw from the wheat fields, split it, bleached it with sulphur for summer, or dyed it for winter wear, braided or sewed it into hats, blocked the hats, and trimmed them according to our own fancy of millinery. The domestic science department included making soap with lye leached from ashes of burned wood, and candles made from wicking and melted tallow poured into the candle molds. Kerosene lamps were a luxury few could afford. We made our butter and cheese. Without any refrigeration, we did our home canning and baking and all the other activities that went into such a department of domestic science, with such tools and materials as could be shaped and utilized. THE LONG AGO Well do I remember the days of Long Ago, When the girls wore homespun dresses, the boys wore pants of tow, And shoes were made of cowhide and socks of homespun wool, And children did a half day's work before they went to school. Then no electric buttons turned on our cold or heat, To freeze ice cream or sherbet, or roast a chunk of meat, Nor did electric washers put laundry on the line, While mother read the morning news or called up Mrs. Stine, Upon the telephone, to ask when could they take the car To make their monthly visits, for good teachers they still are— They're always on the job, dependable and true, And if a car cannot be had, a bicycle will do. Page 266 Formosa—Culinary Melting Pot Edna B. Culmsee S we bowled along Chung Shan Pei Lu in a pedicab, my husband chuckled delightedly at the incongruous sign. It was at the corner, facing the crowded thoroughfare, proclaiming in bold red letters on four stories of gray stucco: Terry's American Restaurant — Chop Suey. To us, an American couple who had recently come to Taipei, the capital city of Free China, this was hilarious. In China chop suey is an American dish! Now, nearly a year later, we accept the sign as a matter of fact. It is no longer incongruous. In the countless times since then that we have dined with Chinese friends in their homes or restaurants, we have never encountered chop suey. In their own land the Chinese seem not to eat chop suey, chow mein, egg fu yung, or those other exotic dishes that were served to us in Chinese restaurants at home. Such appetizing concoctions apparently were devised by clever Chinese cooks to tempt the foreign palate. Or, perhaps, some essential ingredients for their native dishes were not readily available in a strange land. So they improvised. That talent for improvisation probably holds the secret charm of Chinese cuisine. For throughout the vastness of China, the art of cooking is various, not uniform, as individual as the Chinese themselves, and I daresay no dictator is likely ever to standardize or regiment it. Because they use what is at hand, wasting nothing, often making much of little with artful garnishes and ingenious seasonings, the Chinese probably have created the greatest variety in their cookery of any people in the world. Every province has made special contributions. Formosa has become a "melting pot" of foods, adding to its own skills those of two million or so mainlanders who have come to this island, bringing their various forms of cookery. While rice is a basic food in a large part of China, in the North, noodles and a white steamed bread called man-tou take its place. Familiar to us from faraway places are the famous Peking duck, the peppery hot foods of Szechwan province, fish ball soup of Fukien province, and fried beef in oyster sauce from Canton, to name but afew. 'Then there are the fascinating Mongolian foods, either cooked at the table in water boiling around the charcoal heated center of a huo-kua (fire-pot) or out-ofdoors over a special kind of barbecue. 'The variety is endless. A gustatory marathon, the typical Chinese dinner party is served at a large round table covered with a white cotton cloth. 'This cloth is immaculate at the beginning of the * meal, but as course after course is served by the host and hostess from the dish in the center to the eight or ten guests, drops of sauce or bits of food fall upon it. Nobody seems to mind or even to notice it. It ls just as well, because it could hardly be avoided. Each course usually consists of but one dish served in a_ large bow] or platter placed in the center of the table. At opposite sides, bePage 267 268 fore the host and the hostess, lie a pair of chopsticks for serving, or a large china spoon or ladle if the course is liquid. With these implements they lift portions of the food from the central dish over to the guests seated around the table. Each place setting consists of a small bowl, usually a china spoon, a small plate of bread-and-butter size, and a tiny plate about two inches in diameter on which to rest one's chopsticks as one finishes each course. From time to time the small main plates or the bowls are changed. Often there are no napkins, but, at intervals, a servant passes hot damp wash cloths which cleanse the fingers thoroughly. A diner may even refresh himself by mopping his face with it as well. The amount one consumes at these feasts is astonishing, because the helpings seem very small, but the courses range from ten to twenty. Each is a work of art to behold and is presented with a flourish, with hospitable hosts always urging more upon you. If you are a novice you may think the end of the meal is approaching when the sweets are served, such as Eight Precious Rice and some of the many sweet fruit soups. But, actually, it is just a good start. You will go on for several substantial courses after that, finally ending with a delicious clear chicken soup. Although rice is seldom served at a feast, it comes, when it does, at this point in individual bowls as a separate course. 'Then, as a concession to Western taste, no doubt, tangerines or watermelon or sliced fresh pineapple may be passed finally to complete the meal, but not invariably. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 It is difficult to describe the food at a typical Chinese dinner because each is different. Always it is colorful. Vegetables are cooked to perfection, never overdone, and in full color — crisp cauliflower, green beans, carrots, spinach, tomatoes, and onions that we know, besides bamboo shoots, bean sprouts, sweet tender peas in the pod, leeks, water chestnuts, slim celery, large mushrooms, long slender eggplants no larger around than a banana, small, succulent heads of Chinese cabbage cooked whole in delicious sauce, and others I cannot name. OST' of the courses consist of meat, fish, or fowl. Chickens, duck, and pigeons, with tender lacquered skin of a flavor even more delectable than the sweet flesh it encloses; fish served whole, deepfried or steamed or gently cooked the West-Lake way, by pouring boiling water over it until it is done and then covering it with sweetsour sauce, or one containing bright bits of red and green peppers and carrots, cubes of pale ginger, and cauliflower. Prawns, shrimps, and crabs prepared many ways both in and out of their shells; sweet-sour pork, beef and peppers, tailored to chopstick size. White, plump rolls of steamed bread, chiao-tzu (the pork-filled steamed dumplings), spring rolls (dainty cylinders of paper-thin pastry stuffed with pork, bean sprouts, mushrooms, and deepfried). Always soup, sometimes several kinds, during a meal—cold lotus or fruit soups, hot soups of shark-fin or of chicken with delicate cubes of custard or cheese-like bean curd, or mushrooms, or slender strips of pork highly seasoned. FORMOSA—CULINARY MELTING POT Though I can't name them all, neither shall I ever forget them. The only Chinese foods I've encountered that I could not relish (due to prejudice, I know) are sea slugs and one-hundred-year-old eggs. The latter are not' so ancient as their name implies. 'They are merely cured or pickled as we, for instance, make sauerkraut of cabbage. But their unnatural green centers enclosed in brown _ gelatinous "whites" simply do not appeal to me. One must not assume from this account that the Chinese are gluttonous. 'They are not. 'They are a gay, convivial people who delight in good companionship and a festive occasion. Ordinarily, they live simply, and most Chinese drink no alcoholic beverages. One must admit, also, that the dinners described here are those enjoyed by the "upper classes" or at least those who have received a Western education and can speak English and who make some allowances for Western notions. N China, however, it is not too difficult to get some idea of how the "other half'' lives because it is spread out openly before you. There is not much privacy in family life that is lived in tiny shops open to the street, where all sleep on the floor at night after the front is boarded shut. If you are down town about eight in the morning, you may see them taking down the boards, wheeling out their bicycles to park them on the sidewalk in front during the day, and the family one by one emerging, perhaps to breakfast on a bowl of rice or 269 noodles purchased with small coins from a passing vendor. If "daddy" happens to be the vendor, he may be just returning from his early morning rounds to feed his family on what remains. Gently smiling into the attentive eyes of his children. Ranged around his cart, he takes great care in serving, fastidiously placing the small bits of vegetable, chopped pickle, fish, or whatever touch of garnish he would use with his paying customers, while their waiting appetites quicken. Before the small shops farther out from town, "mommy" squats before a charcoal burner at the edge of the pavement to cook the family meal. Sometimes the group may be seen inside seated around a small table, but often a little child simply stands at the edge of the street or sits on the high threshold of the house door, holding his bow] just below his chin and by nimble, rhythmic movements of his chopsticks making the rice disappear in a continuous stream into his mouth. But again and again, one is touched by the simple pride, reverence almost, with which food is served. 'There is no sloshing of ungainly masses such as one sometimes sees in American lunch rooms Or, Say, On army mess trays. Here, hunger watches with pleasant anticipation while the cook does his artistic best. Surely, here on Formosa where there is food enough for all, and the combined skills brought from many parts of China, will be found the choicest Chinese food in the world. And maybe— some day—in this culinary "melting pot," American chop suey will emerge as naturalized Chinese. Vhiriam Diplock oand Welcomes Opportunities to Serve I one the past four years, Sister Miriam Diplock Land, eighty-seven, of Sacramento, California, has bound 120 quilts made by the First Ward Relief Society in Sacramento, where she is a member. She sews beautifully and is eager to be of service to the Relief Society, and to all others. Some of the quilts which she has bound are shown in the picture. Sister Land and her husband, William E. Land, were converted to the Church in Lovell, Wyoming, in 1929. She became a visiting teacher on the Tuesday after she was baptized and has been active in Relief Society work ever since. She was born in Falmer, Sussex, England, and at the age of seventy-nine, she completed the necessary preparation for becoming a United States citizen and passed the examinations without an error. -<—}- Sime to G row Ada Marie Patten The violet blooms but in the spring, Its span of life is brief; The oak tree stands for many years, Its strength beyond belief. Love also needs time to mature However fair its birth; To send stout branches to the sun, Deep roots into the earth. Page 270 The Bright Star CHAPTER 2 Dorothy S. Romney Synopsis: Kathy Tracy, an orphan, who wishes to become an artist, lives with her Aunt Emerald Jewel Tracy in an oldfashioned house overlooking San Francisco Bay. In order to help with household expenses, Kathy applies to Phineas Fenton, a neighbor and owner of a shipping line, for employment. He offers her the position of switchboard operator in his office building in San Francisco. When Kathy returns home from the Fenton house, she finds that her aunt has gone out, and her friend Jim Parker is there waiting for their evening date. Misty rain had begun to fall A when the lights of Jim Parker's small car started back over the hill along Pine Road. Kathy Tracy sat silently in the seat beside him. "Can't carry on much of a conversation by myself," Jim complained. Kathy smiled. "I was thinking of the picture. Imagine that girl giving up her wonderful career to marry and live way out on that farm. She must have loved him deeply." "Hmm," said Jim, "getting married's fine. I just hope he had his farm where it was paying. Folks have to. Eat, you know." "Dear, practical Jim," Kathy laughed. "Don't be so down-toearth, and with the moon just rising, too. After all, it was only a movie." "Say," he said suddenly, stopping the car with a lurch, "what's that?" He backed the car a few feet and stopped beside a clump of bushes. Sitting on the ground, leaning against a fallen log was a woman. Kathy sprang from the car and ran to the crumpled figure. The pale moonlight fell across the woman's face. "Jim! Jim!" the girl cried in a stricken voice, "it's Aunt Em! She's hurt!" Frantically, the girl grasped her aunt's cold wrist and felt for her pulse. "Oh, thank goodness, she isn t—I mean. Oh, Jim! We'll get her home in bed, then Pll call Bishop Henderson in San Rafael and see if he can send someone to help us, and I'll get a doctor." Miss Em opened her eyes and looked at her niece and murmured dazedly, "Oh, it's you, Kathy. I just sat down to do some sewing, and sort of dozed, I guess... Why 1 " She lifted her hand helplessly to her head. "She must have tripped and hit her head on this log," Kathy explained to Jim. He bent down and picked the frail figure up and put her in the car. It was then that Kathy noticed a brown paper parcel on the ground. Must be the hemming Aunt Em had promised to do for Nan Pressman's trousseau. "Oh, Aunt Em," she cried brokenly, "you walked all the way to the Pressman place!" She must have been lying here on the ground for several hours! A sick feeling of guilt swept over Kathy. How could she have gone Page 27] 272 away, not knowing where her Aunt was, or when she'd return home? As Kathy got in the car beside her, Miss Em opened her eyes again. "I sat down by the fire, it was so cold," she muttered. 'Then she burst out, suddenly rational, "Did Phineas give you that job in the city, honey?" "Yes, Aunt Em," the girl answered. Y™ stepped on the gas, hard. "You didn't tell me about any job," he said. "A girl like you ought to be getting married, not running off to the city to work," he added emphatically. "Let's not talk about it now," said Kathy, with a warning look at Jim, "and please hurry." She was rubbing her Aunt's hands, as she talked, trying to bring some warmth back into them. "All right," he answered. The car swung rapidly around the curves of Pine Road, the trees and shrubbery making grotesque _patterns in the quick flash of the headlights. "Tl see you in the morning, Jim," Kathy whispered to the young man as they helped Miss Em from the car to a chair in the kitchen. "I'll have to put Aunt Em to bed." Jim walked to the old-fashioned kitchen range, lifted the lid and started shoving in lengths of split pine, then turned to Kathy. "Better phone the doctor before she gets any worse," he suggested. "She'll be all right as soon as she gets warmed up," Kathy replied softly. "I doubt if Pll need to disturb anyone at this late hour after all. Aunt Em needs rest. Good RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 night, Jim, and thanks for the movie. "Good night, Kathy," he said and closed the kitchen door quietly. Kathy removed Miss Em's damp shoes and thrust her feet into some warm slippers, then taking off the shoddy coat, she wrapped her in a heavy robe. "Tl have a cup of chocolate for you in a jiffy," she promised, "that will warm you up." With a great effort, Miss Em roused herself. "You go to the city, Kathy, take that job—study hard. 'The money —the Chinese chest—find the bright star...." Her voice trailed off. "Yes, yes, I know we have money in the chest," Kathy murmured. "The bright star," she repeated, puzzled. What on earth could Aunt Em mean by that? It must be some figment of her imagination. For the first time a cold fear swept over Kathy. Aunt Em's illness was more than a bump on the head. "Remember — money — treasure — Chinese ch." the older woman muttered again. She shuddered and fell back in her chair, unconscious, and the frightened girl ran for the telephone to summon the doctor. HE next morning Kathy picked her way over the beach boulders to where Jim sat waiting for her, hand up to shade her weary eyes from the bright morning sunlight. She had sent him there to get him out of the way of the doctor, and now that Sister Swenson, a Relief Society sister from Sausalito, had arrived to take over the nursing duties for the day, she was free to follow him for a moment's breathing spell. THE BRIGHT STAR Good, old dependable Jim, she thought, what would I do without his broad shoulders to lean on now? As he sat, solidly competent, upon his rock, he visibly embodied all the commoner virtues. Kathy knew this. Jim would never change in this changing world. He had gone competently to Agricultural College at Davis just long enough to learn to be a good poultry man—no longer. He always put just the right amount of effort into each of his projects— no more. With the same forthrightness he was planning to marry Kathy. Just how and why she had agreed, Kathy was sometimes at a loss to explain, but she was engaged to him, nonetheless, even though she wouldn't seriously consider marriage until he advanced in the Priesthood, so they could be married in the temple. Kathy sat down on the boulder next to Jim with a sigh of relief. It was good to be near so safe and reassuring a person on this uncertain day. The earnest set of his square jaw, his blunt nose, and clear, deep blue eyes looked steady and safe as the rock on which he sat. If only he didn't look so determined! "Well," he asked with characteristic bluntness, "how is she?" "Better, I suppose, although it's hard to tell. She doesn't talk, just looks at you," Kathy sighed. "It's a stroke, you know," she admitted. "We sat up with her all night. 'The doctor said she had probably had one before." "She'll be a helpless invalid," Jim said reluctantly. "Oh, no!" cried Kathy, balling her hands up into tight little fists. 273 "No, that mustn't happen." But Jim might be right. She shivered. The shining vision of San Francisco, of the art school wavered, crashed like a bright Christmas tree ornament falling to the floor without warning. Then she remembered the words of Brother Woods as he had administered to Aunt Em last night. He had promised that she would be restored to her normaal state of health—but that could be a long, long time, she thought. Jim's hand closed over her warm fingers. Gently, he said, "Marry me now, Kathy, I'll help you take care of her." She looked up to meet Jim's eyes. Oh, why must there always be a problem to solve? She thought. For a moment she was tempted to throw her burden on his competent shoulders. But, no, although Aunt Fim had always respected Jim, she had urged Kathy to be very sure before accepting him and the responsibilities of marriage, and, above all, not to marry until they could be married in the temple. "That's very thoughtful of you, Jim," she said as gently as she could, "but not now. It would excite Aunt Em too much. There's the doctor coming out now." She scrambled up hurriedly and ran up the rough path to the drive, Jim following. R. Ransome put his hand kindly upon Kathy's shoulder. "She'll live a long time yet, with good care,' he told her, then added, "but you can't take care of her alone. I'll send my best practical nurse tomorrow. Sister Swenson will stay the day out." 274 Kathy choked a little. "We have some money in the Chinese chest— enough to pay for a nurse," she told him, "if you think we need one," she added reluctantly. Yes, money saved, penny by penny, she thought bitterly. "Now don't you go worrying about that," said the doctor. He climbed into his car. "Tl look in on you later," he called out, against the chugging of the motor. Kathy nodded mutely and fled along the grass-grown drive, beyond the house to the log cabin down by the water, Jim close at her heels. She felt she had to have a minute to compose herself before going back to the house. They stepped up onto the miniature veranda of the China house and sat down. "Well," he said, with his familiar opening. "T stay here, of course, San Francisco's out," she said dully, and looked up in time to catch a satisfied look on Jim's face. "Sensible thing for us to do is get married," he repeated. "We can start work on the new house on Elm Hill and stay here until it's finished. Then sell this place and use the money for Aunt Em's expenses. We can go to the temple Jater," he finished. A cold little fear shadowed Kathy's mind. Without stopping to think things out, she knew that, except for the temple, Jim was tight. How on earth could she manage the doctor bills, medicines, the extra dainties, to say nothing of the nurse's pay? But instinctively She shook her head, nibbling hard on a piece of grass she'd plucked. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 "Why not?" Jim demanded. Dear, dependable Jim. She could not tell him — not now — that there were many reasons why she refused — that Miss Em would surely die if she left the gray house, or how she would feel if her niece should marry outside the temple. That as fond as Kathy was of Jim, the dream of the art school was dearer to her than he was. "It wouldn't be fair to dump all our worries on you," she said quietly. "T only want to help. You know I'd do anything for you, Kathy," he insisted. "Tm sorry, Jim," Kathy said, "but we'll just have to wait." * Ke OK HK OK TTHAT evening, after she'd told Sister Swenson goodbye, and assured her they'd be all right until the nurse arrived, Kathy tiptoed into her aunt's bedroom and sat down in the old rocking chair. She felt a little shock go through her as she looked at the hands, lying still and waxen looking on the coverlet. Hands that had never been idle before. It seemed to Kathy that an eternity had gone by, when the old lady's lips started moving. Kathy jumped up and leaned over her, her heart beating fast. She waited, but no words came. "Please, Aunt Em, just try to rest," she finally said. "There is nothing for you to worry about. I know we have some money in the chest, and it's all safe. Il look for the bright star tomorrow." Kathy still had no idea what Miss Em had meant last night. Some- THE BRIGHT STAR thing the confusion of her mind had brought forth, perhaps. Miss Em frowned, and Kathy thought, she's not satisfied. She'll never be satisfied just to lie there. She got up presently and came back with the brown paper package, which she had completely forgotten. Miss Em watched closely, while she untied the string and took out the lacy froth that was to be the bridal veil for Nan Pressman., Kathy's fingers flew along, doing this work that she despised with all her heart, but gradually Miss Em's 275 eyelids closed and Kathy knew that she was asleep and at peace for a time, at least. Yesterday, old Phineas Fenton, the richest man on the hill, had given her a job in one of his San Francisco office buildings, tomorrow he would get it back. In the meantime Kathy meant to dream a little about what it would have been like if Aunt Em hadn't gotten sick, and she could have gone to work in the fascinating city across the bay. (To be continued ) 2 Late Spring Eva Willes Wangsgaard Oh, the spring is late and the seeding's late But spring came in today. The cardinals seeking their summer haunts Paused briefly on their way. The cardinals pecked in our chicken yard For grain that the hens had left, And the sudden pattern of crimson wings Wore spring in its warp and weft. Oh, the cardinals paused in our yard today, They and the spring together. And the trees are beaded with swelling buds As red as a cardinal's feather. Po Dilemma Wilma Boyle Bunker H*YE you ever been torn between a sink full of breakfast dishes and an overwhelming desire to capture a thought on paper which has suddenly taken shape in your mind? Or have you glanced out your window at the morning sun on the snowcapped mountains, and ignoring unmade beds, reached for your pallet and brush? 'To get your house in order, have you ever postponed writing down the beginning of a melody or verse, and then found later that you had lost it? Why, oh, why can't the inspirations come when the floors are swept and the dusting done? (FROM THE FIELD Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Lucile Bunker SOUTHERN STATES MISSION, GEORGIA DISTRICT, MACON BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS OUTSTANDING BAZAAR Officers of the Macon, Georgia, Branch are shown checking some of the many articles which were featured in their bazaar. Left to right are: Alma P. Hudson, Secretary; Mazelle B. Clark, President; Hattie G. Holloman, Counselor, and Mae Lominick, work meeting leader. Rosa T. Parker, Counselor, was absent when the picture was taken. Lucile Bunker, President, Southern States Mission, reports: "Our Relief Society organization is growing very steadily in the South, and while some small groups in the outlying branches struggle to find teachers enough, the work goes forward just the same. Last year we made fine gains in Magazine sales as well as procuring sixty additional visiting teachers and making 1,200 more visits to the homes than the previous ear.: She continues: "This picture of the Macon Branch bazaar ls typical of the fine bazaars we have yearly in our eighty-seven organizations." Page 276 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 277 Photograph submitted by Veda F. Moss RENO STAKE (NEVADA) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, January 20, 1957 Pauline Richardson, stake chorister, is seated on the front row at left. Norma Kotter, stake organist, is seated on the front row at right. Veda F. Moss, President, Reno Stake Relief Society, reports the activities of the Singing Mothers: ""This chorus furnished the music for the January stake quarterly conference. We have sixteen wards and branches; there are about seventy-five members in the chorus; however, all were not present because of a snowstorm." Photograph submitted by Eva L. Clinger SHELLEY STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Sister Eva L. Clinger, President, Shelley Stake Relief Society, reports: Members of the Singing Mothers choruses from the ten wards in our stake participated in the singing for both sessions in our quarterly conference. Sister Florence Dye, stake chorister, is third from the right in the back row; Verla Thomas, stake organist is second from the right in the back row. 278 Whother 5 Day Whisic FOR THREE PART LADIES VOICES — FOR MY MOTHER—Malotte 20 — MOTHER—Rubinstein.20 — M-O-T-H-E-R—Morse.25 — MOTHER O' MINE—Tours.20 — PRAYER FOR MY MOTHER— MO tn ccceennn ncaa 15 — SONGS MY MOTHER TAUGHT ME—Dvorak _ 2 00o occ cence eens 10 me THAT'S WHAT GOD MADE MOTHER'S FOR—Wood 25 -- THAT WONDERFUL MOTHER OF MINE—Goodwin se. -20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah CJ On Approval [) Charge! I 1 I i l 1 I I l 1! I Please send the music indicated above. T! 1 t m I CO Money Enclosed 1 i 1 ' i t l 1 l I \ 1 \ 1 1 Daynos Mise, RUUD 15 E. Lst South 145 WORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO «/ Salt Loke City 11, Uta RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 My Lad Dorothy J]. Roberts This be the little son I never had; But once removed, by blood My lad, my lad. And this be the season, The longed-for part, The time at length to hold him To my heart If my need be greater Than before His mother wed and walked through A strange, new door, Some kind chance or reason Grants the grace Running to greet me in a Grandson's face. <> Pamela Ethel Jacobson Pamela is one, A nice round number. (Guard her, awake, And in her sweet slumber.) Pamela can run On little pink toes. (Guide her, unharmed Past thorn to rose.) She has laughter of brooks And a small bird's song. (Bless her this day And all her life long!) —_ Riva Vesta N. Lukei Too late. Too late to alter The hour, the moment near, Why does the heartbeat falter, Distraught with love, with fear? How fo Plant Small Seeds Elizabeth Williamson D° you have trouble planting small seeds evenly? Try using a salt shaker or a discarded spice can. Margaret Lund Tours Northwestern Tour Passion Play, South Dakota; Yellowstone Park; Glacier Park; Cardston Temple; Canadian Rockies to Vancouver and Victoria; San Francisco and the Redwoods. Leaves Salt Lake City August 12, 1957. 0 for 14 days, includes everything but ood. Hawaiian Tour Ask about our Hawaiian Tour which leaves Salt Lake City in June and July. L. D. S. Tour The Pageant at Hill Cumorah; Historical places of the Church; New York; Chicago; Washington; Canada; Niagara Falls; Boston. Leaves Salt Lake City July 20, 1957. $198 for 21 days via new chartered bus, includes everything but food. For further information write or phone: Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909 or CR 7-6334 Is You YOM bee tk! I. 2°, eee, pe R Push Type Lawn Mower - Power $9750 Lawn Mower 7 Factory trained experts using newest precision equipment sharpen and adjust your mower. Do it now... Avoid the rush! Sears, Roebuck and Co. 754 South State Street ® BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomelybound cover.