[Vol44 | April 1957 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Poem | Title: Elaine C. Southwick 248 The Three Wise Women Fredrika Clinch 257 A New Quih for an Old Home Jane T. Mattice 258 Make Them Feel Secure Caroline Eyring Miner 265 A Look Backward and Forward, Relief Society All the Way Annie W. Westover 266 Formosa — Culinary Melting Pot Edna B. Culmsee 267 Dilemma Wilma Boyle Bunker 275 FICTION— SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORIES Mountain Vacation Deone R. Sutherland 220 New Shoes for Flo Wanda F. Hilton 230 Going Modern Frances C. Yost 252 Two of a Kind Maude Rubin 260 The Bright Star — Serial — Chapter Two Dorothy S. Romney 271 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 210 Sixty Years Ago 238 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 239 Editorial: Blessings Attendant Upon an Office Marianne C. Sharp 240 In Memoriam — Nettie Maria Davis Bradford 241 Notes to the Field: Hymn of the Month 242 Notes From the Field: ReUef Society Activities Hulda Parker 276 Birthday Congratulations 280 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Let's Garden With Half the Work Dorthea N. Newbold 234 Recipes From the Northern Far East Mission Frances P. Andrus 244 Miriam Diplock Land Welcomes Opportunities to Serve 270 How to Plant Small Seeds Elizabeth Wilhamson 279 POETRY Apricot Blossoms — Frontispiece Christie Lund Coles 209 Camphor Trees Elsie McKinnon Strachan 233 The Smallest One's Prayer Maryhale Woolsey 233 Legacy Leslie Savage Clark 242 An Easter Thought Delia Adams Leitner 247 Meeting Place Catherine E. Berry 251 Time to Grow Ada Marie Patten 270 Late Spring Eva Willes Wangsgaard 275 My Lad Dorothy J. Roberts 278 Pamela Ethel Jacobson 278 Reunion Vesta N. Lukei]
A  NEW  QUILT  FOR  AN  OLD  HOME 
259 
Mrs.  Walter  H.  Moss 
QUILT  IN  THE  UPSTAIRS  BEDROOM,  PETER  WHITMER  HOME 
very  very  special.  Their  conversation  as  they  worked  often  went  hke  this, 
'1  never  dreamed  I  would  have  the  opportunity  to  help  in  such  a  wonder- 
ful undertaking.  I  may  never  see  the  Peter  Whitmer  home,  but  I  am  so 
glad  to  have  a  part  in  its  restoration." 
On  one  corner  of  the  lining  we  embroidered  ''Made  and  presented  by 
the  Pima  Ward  Relief  Society,  St.  Joseph  Stake,  Arizona,  September  1955." 
When  it  was  finished  we  displayed  it  in  the  foyer  of  the  chapel  one 
Sunday.  The  enthusiasm  of  our  members  had  been  contagious,  and  all 
the  ward  wanted  to  see  this  much-talked-about  quilt  before  it  was  sent  on 
its  way.  Our  husbands  and  children  were  just  as  proud  of  the  finished 
product  as  were  we.    Soon  the  quilt  was  sent  back  East  to  its  home. 
Sister  Hathaway  was  pleased  and  very  liberal  in  her  praise  and  thanks 
for  our  efforts.  She  took  it  to  Sister  Moss,  who,  with  her  husband,  Brother 
Walter  H.  Moss,  were  missionary  guides  at  the  Peter  Whitmer  Home.  Sis- 
ter Moss  wrote  to  express  her  thanks  and  appreciation  for  the  work  of  our 
Rehef  Society  sisters.  She  sent  the  picture  showing  ''Our  Quilt"  in  the 
upstairs  bedroom. 
Relief  Society  and  Relief  Society  women  are  wonderful.  If  there  is 
some  worthy  work  to  be  done,  our  sisters  are  always  willing  and  anxious 
to  be  of  assistance.

Two  of  a  Kind 
Maude  Rubin 
SALLY  Harding  was  struggling 
with  her  damp  hair,  trying  to 
put  it  up  in  pin-curls.  It  was 
just  wavy  enough  to  be  stubborn. 
In  the  mirror  she  could  see 
Mother  Harding,  Jim's  mother, 
watching  her  with  polite  interest. 
But  without  offering  to  help.  Im- 
maculate as  always,  in  a  smart  blue 
suit  and  small  blue  hat,  Mother 
Harding  had  stopped  in  to  wait  for 
the  bus,  saying,  ''I  thought  Fd  go 
into  the  city  for  lunch  and  the 
style  show  at  Simmons'.  It's  such 
a  lovely  day!" 
Mother  Harding  might  have 
been  a  fashion  model  herself,  Sally 
thought  wistfully  as  she  looked  at 
her— ''What  the  Mature  Woman 
Will  Wear."  So  slim  and  straight, 
hair  smoothly  waved,  every  detail 
perfect.  Definitely  ungrandmother- 
ly.  .  .  .  It  was  a  disappointment,  a 
hurt  that  Sally  had  not  been  able 
to  overcome.  She  glared  at  her 
own  wet  brown  locks  and  jabbed 
the  last  pin  in  viciously,  so  that  it 
pricked  her  scalp. 
'*It  never  looks  right,  somehow. 
Especially  the  back  curls.  No  mat- 
ter how  hard  I  try!" 
"I  was  never  very  good  at  fixing 
hair,  either,  Sally.  But  Muriel  used 
to  be  very  clever  with  it.  She  did 
mine  while  she  was  at  home.  And 
she  decided  that  I  should  always 
wear  it  this  way."  She  touched  the 
smooth  gray  waves.  "It  is  more  be- 
coming, I  guess.  But  sometimes 
Fd  like  to  try  some  other  style.  .  .  ." 
Muriel  was  Jim's  sister.  Thirtyish, 
a  reporter  on  a  New  York  daily, 
capable  of  managing  the  entire  city 
Page  260 
if  she  had  to,  Sally  thought.  Muriel 
had  come  to  see  them  last  fall,  just 
between  planes.  But  while  she  was 
there,  she  had  arranged  her  moth- 
er's furniture  in  the  small  cottage 
at  the  end  of  the  garden;  had  out- 
lined the  winter's  activities  for  her 
mother,  making  numerous  lists  and 
schedules,  marking  the  calendar 
with  blue  pencil.  She  designed  the 
new  rose  garden  for  Jim  and  Sally, 
decided  on  the  exact  shade  of  wall- 
paper for  their  living  room.  'The 
only  possible  color  for  this  room!" 
It  was  right,  too,  perfect.  Sally  ad- 
mired her  efficiency  and  was  more 
than  a  little  afraid  of  her. 
Now  Mother  Harding  reached 
down  and  brushed  a  tiny  speck  of 
lint  from  her  skirt.  "Never  mind, 
Sally.  Your  hair  will  look  nice- 
it  always  does.  And  when  the  chil- 
dren are  grown,  you'll  have  lots  of 
time.  Then  you  can  go  to  the 
beauty  shop.  It  sort  of  relaxes  one, 
I  find."  She  smiled  brightly, 
pulled  on  white  gloves  as  she  went 
down  the  walk  toward  the  bus  stop. 
Sally  stood  in  the  doorway  and 
waved  to  her  as  she  got  on  the 
bus.  She  admitted  to  herself  that 
she  was  almost  envious  of  her 
mother-in-law.  Jealous  of  her  smart 
daintiness,  of  her  leisure,  her  inter- 
ests. It  must  be  nice  to  have  the 
whole  day  free,  to  dress  up  and  go 
places.  ... 
I  wish  we  could  be  real  friends, 
Sally  said  to  herself. 
Sally's  clear  gray  eyes  were  cloud- 
ed as  she  thought,  she  doesn't  need 
me,  or  the  children.  Not  with  her 
concerts,  her  shopping.  .  .  .

TWO  OF  A  KIND  261 
Briskly  Sally  whisked  the  break-  disconnected  the  TV.  The  children 
fast  dishes  into  the  sink,  turned  on  weren't  watching  it.  They  were  too 
the  hot  water  and  said  to  herself,  excited  and  thrilled  by  the  storm. 
''Well,  Madge  says   I   don't  know  Hardings,  both  of  them— afraid  of 
how  lucky  I  am!     A  mother-in-law  nothing. 
who  doesn't  interfere,  doesn't  try  to  ''Mommy!    Mommy!"  Jim  Third 
run   my  house.     Mother    Harding  turned  toward  her,  all  excitement, 
certainly  doesn't."  elation. 
Madge  Jones  was  their  nearest  Then  Judy  piped  up,  "It  was  a 
neighbor,  Sally's  only  friend  since  tree  that  time,  Mommy!"  She 
the  Hardings  had  moved  to  The  turned  from  the  window  to  demon- 
Acre,  strate  with  her  thin  arms  just  how 
The  day  was  perfect,  without  the  the  lightning  had  forked.  "A  great 
humid    midwest    heat    that   would  big  fire-tree  in  the   sky!      It  filled 
come  later  in  the  season.    Sally  de-  the  whole  sky.  Mommy!" 
cided  to  work  in  the  garden.     Jim  Judy  at  six  was  something  of  a 
was  on  a  buying  trip  to  Des  Moines  poet.     Sally  wished  miserably  that 
and  wouldn't  be  home  for  another  she  could  see  some  of  the  beauty 
three  days.    The  new  rosebed  need-  in  it.     Well,  at  least  they  weren't 
ed  attention.  frightened,  thank  goodness  for  that. 
She  might  as  well  get  started  on  When  she  spoke,  she  managed  to 
it  today  as  any  time.  The  baby  was  keep  her  voice  level,  matter-of-fact: 
still  asleep,  Judy  and  Jim  Third  ''Don't  stand  so  close  to  the  win- 
were  playing  contentedly  in  the  dow,  children.  You— you— might 
orchard,  their  two  apple  trees.  She  catch  cold!"  Just  how  silly  can  you 
tied  a  scarf  around  her  head  and  sound?  she  wondered, 
went  happily  to  work.  Paying  no  attention  to  her,  prob- 
BTT'-rur          ••ui.i.i,          1     A/r  ably    not    even    hearing    her,    they 
UT  before  night  the  early  May  -^     ,      ,               ,      i^        I     s.x, 
,,    ,     ,^  ^          ,  ,   -^     ,.  r  pressed    closer    and    closer    to    the 
warmth  had  changed  to  sultri-  ^n 
ness.  The  eastern  sky  was  ominous-  t^*  ,  .... 
ly  black.  When  the  first  white  glare  Jhe  next  glare  was  brilliant, 
of  lightning  streaked  the  clouds,  a  changing  to  an  eerie  blue-white  as 
deafening  clap  of  thunder  followed.  \he  jagged  streaks  shot  up  across  the 
Sally  shivered,  listened  to  the  next  '^Y'  ^^^Y ,  
^^^^  her  hands  grow 
crash  rip  through  the  airless  dusk  ^^"^P^  "^"^^  with  terror,  not  know- 
and  rumble  to  a  slow  silence.  The  ^^g  ^^at  to  do  next, 
first  big  splatters  of  rain  struck  the  To  calm  herself,  she  walked  across 
window  as  she  looked  out  to  see  if  the  room  and  pulled  the  plug  of 
Mother  Harding  was  home  yet.  the  iron  cord  and  put  away  the 
Yes,  there  was  a  light  in  the  cot-  board.  No  ironing  tonight.  "Now 
tage.  I  wish  I'd  gone  ahead  with  it  this 
The  flashes  came  faster  now,  morning.  But  who  would  imagine? 
closer  together,  with  no  space  be-  This  early?  The  first  week  of  May?" 
tween  their  brief  brilliance  and  the  she  said  aloud, 
immediate  thunder.  She  had  purposely  left  the  iron- 
Sally   hurried   to   the  wall  plug,  ing  for  tonight,  so  they  could  watch

262 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1957 
TV  while  she  worked.  That  was 
one  of  the  few  jobs  she  could  man- 
age and  look  at  TV.  This  was  the 
night  for  the  Disney  program,  and 
she  had  planned  that  they  would 
all  watch  it  together,  a  nice  family 
thing  to  do.  She  had  even  thought 
of  asking  Mother  Harding  to  come 
and  sit  with  her  and  the  children, 
but  gave  that  up.  She  would  prob- 
ably be  bored. 
Together.  To  Sally  that  togeth- 
erness was  all  important.  All  the 
family  doing  things  together.  Some- 
thing to  remember  all  their  lives. 
OER  thoughts  went  on:  If  Mother 
Harding  were  only  a  little  bit 
like  my  Granny!  I  thought  the 
children  would  mean  so  much  to 
her.  ...  If  she  were  a  normal 
Grandma,  she  would  be  here  with 
us.  Right  now.  She  wouldn't  let 
us  stay  here  alone  .  .  .  about  to  be 
struck  with  lightning!  Sally  looked 
again  at  the  cottage.  Mother  Hard- 
ing had  drawn  the  Venetian  blind, 
but  the  light  still  showed  through 
the  slits. 
She  wished  again  that  Jim  were 
home.  I  wouldn't  be  half  so  scared 
with  another  grownup  in  the  house. 
Fm  always  sensible— well,  almost 
sensible— when  Jim  is  here. 
Wham!  Another  earth-rocking 
crash.  I  can't  stand  it,  she  thought, 
I  can't.  But  there  was  nothing  else 
to  do. 
Maybe  there  was.  Maybe  Madge 
Jones  would  come  up  and  stay  with 
her,  if  she  knew.  She  stumbled  to 
the  telephone,  dialed  frantically. 
No  answer.  Again.  Still  no  an- 
swer. She  listened,  realized  that 
there  was  no  dial-tone.  The  phone 
was  dead. 
She  placed  the  receiver  back  in 
its  cradle,  straightened  it  carefully. 
At  that  moment  the  lights  went 
out. 
She  ran  through  the  dark  to  the 
back  door,  knocking  her  knee  on  a 
chair  on  the  way,  opened  her  mouth 
to  call  to  Mother  Harding,  to 
scream  for  help,  and  remembered 
just  in  time.  No  screaming,  no  fear 
in  front  of  the  children.  Now,  with 
the  lights  out,  she  couldn't  even 
see  the  cottage  through  the  rain. 
The  cottage  where  Mother  Hard- 
ing lived  her  own  secure  and  worry- 
free  life.  Sally  swallowed  hard  and 
forced  herself  to  go  back  into  the 
living  room. 
It  was  because  of  the  cottage  that 
they  had  bought  The  Acre.  After 
Jim's  father  had  died,  Sally  had 
wanted  Jim's  mother  to  come  to 
live  with  them. 
''Why  couldn't  we  be  all  togeth- 
er, Jim,  as  a  family  should  be?  She'll 
be  so  lonesome,  and  I  get  lonesome, 
too,  Jim,  sometimes.  We  always 
had  so  many  at  home."  She  had 
added,  'Td  love  your  mother,  Jim. 
I  know  I  would.  And  she  could 
stay  with  the  children  sometimes, 
so  we  could  go  out.  I'd  know  they 
were  safe  with  their  Granny!" 
She  had  stopped,  looked  at  Jim. 
He  had  been  smiling  queerly. 
''Oh,  not  often,  Jim.  I  don't 
mean  for  her  to  do  a  lot  of  baby- 
sitting. But  just  once  in  a  while, 
for  something  special.  Jim,  I — I 
can't  bear  to  leave  them  with  a 
stranger.  Not  while  the  baby's  so 
little." 
He  had  leaned  down  and  kissed 
the  top  of  her  head  lightly.  "No, 
Sally,  it  just  wouldn't  do.  Mother 
is  different,  independent;  and  keeps 
very  busy."  Jim  grinned.

TWO  OF  A  KIND 
263 
''But,  Jim,  I  don't  care.  She's 
the  children's  Granny.  They'd  love 
her.  And  she'd  love  them.  I  know 
she  would." 
"Of  course.  But,  Sally,  Mother 
wouldn't  have  time  for  baby-sitting. 
She's  always  going  somewhere,  con- 
certs, meetings,  and  lectures.  You're 
so  domestic,  darling.  You  wouldn't 
know  about  women  like  Mother!" 
He  had  hugged  her. 
Oh,  wouldn't  I?  Sally  had 
thought.  I'm  no  more  domestic 
than  anyone,  Mr.  Harding.  But 
how  could  I  go  to  concerts?  Just 
how?  She  had  bitten  her  lips  to 
keep  the  words  inside,  unsaid. 
Jim  had  continued,  "And  I've 
always  heard  that  no  house  is  big 
enough  for  two  women,  Sally.  I'm 
not  taking  any  chances  with  my 
women!"  He  had  grinned  happily 
and  the  subject  had  been  closed. 
Except  in  Sally's  mind:  That's 
all  you  know  about  it,  Jim  Harding! 
My  folks  all  lived  together  and 
worked  together  and  had  a  won- 
derful time.  Granny  lived  with 
us  always  and  what  would  we 
ever  have  done  without  her?  And 
Aunt  Jennie  part  of  the  time,  and 
old  Uncle  Tim,  too,  until  he  died. 
That's  all  a  mistake  about  families 
not  getting  along  together.  And  I 
happen  to  know  what  I'm  talking 
about! 
"DUT  it  was  settled  as  Jim  decided, 
of  course.  So  they  had  bought 
The  Acre,  out  in  the  country,  but 
on  the  bus  line.  With  a  separate 
cottage  for  Mother  Harding. 
When  Mother  Harding  moved  in, 
Sally  could  see  what  Jim  meant. 
Always  busy,  always  smartly  dressed, 
the  older  woman  lived  in  a  different 
world    from    Sally's.     Even    here, 
where  she  knew  no  one.  Mother 
Harding  found  plenty  to  keep  her 
interested,  apparently.  Plenty  of 
things  to  do,  places  to  go.  Always 
calm,  pleasant;  but  never  helpful, 
never  just  "family." 
At  the  second  loud  crash  of  thun- 
der within  as  many  seconds,  Sally 
ran  upstairs  to  see  if  the  baby  was 
all  right.  She  carried  a  flashlight, 
played  its  light  over  the  crib  and 
whispered,  "There  he  is,  bless  his 
heart,  sound  asleep  through  all  this 
racket!"  She  shivered  at  the  next 
blue-white  flare  that  highlighted  the 
room. 
Downstairs  again,  hunting  for 
matches  and  a  candle,  Sally  listened 
to  the  downpour  and  the  excited 
chatter  of  Judy  and  Jim  Third. 
Judy  shouted,  "There  it  is  again. 
Mommy!     That  fire-tree,  I  mean!" 
Then  Jim  Third's  loud  roar, 
"Bang!  Bang-bang!  Roar-r-r-r!  Rum- 
m-m-m-ble."  He  was  dramatizing  it. 
Sally  reached  out  vaguely  till  her 
hand  touched  a  chair.  Then  she 
let  herself  down  carefully,  her  legs 
feeling  limp,  boneless.  She  couldn't 
take  much  more  of  this.  Without 
someone  to  hold  to,  someone  to 
talk  to,  she  was  finding  out  exactly 
how  worthless  she  really  was.  Not 
the  sensible,  self-confident  mother 
she  wanted  to  be,  pretended  to  be. 
She  finally  found  a  stub  of  a  candle, 
lighted  it,  set  it  on  the  mantle. 
TIM  was  the  only  one  who  knew 
^  about  her  terror  of  thunder- 
storms; and  even  to  him  she  had 
never  let  go  entirely,  never  dared 
break  down  and  cry,  which  is  what 
she  felt  like  doing  right  now.  How 
Muriel  would  despise  her. 
Now  why  should  I  think  of 
Muriel  at  a  time  like  this?    Because