[Vol3 | January 1916 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Art and Architecture - Winter Landscape and Architecture Les]

ART AND ARCHITECTURE.
WINTER LANDSCAPE AND SUNSHINE.
Re-read introduction in January Art lesson.
Let each member make for herself what the artists call a "finder," this is a small picture frame of stiff cardboard or pasteboard about 2x3 inches, which should be colored black. With this little frame, you can find many beautiful pictures in nature, that you would not perhaps otherwise notice.
In observing the winter landscape, we are taking a special interest in the color of the sky, the character of clouds, the character and color of the bare trees and brush, and the color of the shadows on the snow. Hold up your picture frame or "finder;" cover up one eye, and look for the lightest thing and the darkest spot in the picture you have selected in your frame.
VALUES.
Which is lighter, the sky or the field of snow? What color would you use to paint that clump of willows or bushes? You could not paint the snow correctly with pure white. What color would you mix with white to show the effect of sunlight on the snow? (The answer might be yellow.) What color would you use to make the shadows on the snow?
FEBRUARY TWILIGHT.
a. What is the length of duration of the winter twilight? b. Describe winter twilight on a lake or river bank, or a twilight scene from your own window. c. Tell what object in that picture makes the darkest note, and which the lightest note. d. Every window should frame a picture. Does yours at twilight? e. At what time of day is the snow-covered ground darker than the sky? (Half close the eyes and look through the lashes to discover this.)
WINTER WALK.
Let the members take in little groups, or singly as seems best, a winter walk to observe and enjoy winter landscape. Take with you the "finder" and make a search for pictures along your path, and report the same at the Art lesson.
LESSON ON ARCHITECTURE.
a. Quick review of January lesson in Architecture from Devotees and Their Shrines, pages 120-22. b. New lesson, from pages 122 to 124.
1. The Transition to the Renaissance.
2. Elizabethan style.
3. The Jacobean style.
Questions:
a. Describe the Transition to the Renaissance. b. Describe the Renaissance movement. (Note page 123.) (Also consult Dictionary and Encyclopedia.) c. What are the Classic Orders? d. Describe the Elizabethan style. (Figure 3, Montacute House.)