[Vol3 | January 1916 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Genealogy | Title: International Congress of Genealogy]

International Congress of Genealogy.
We copy the following from the Journal of Heredity, November, 1915, an account of our glorious Congress:
The International Congress of Genealogy which met in connection with the Panama-Pacific International Exposition in San Francisco from July 27 to 30, represented sixty-five genealogical, historical, patriotic, heraldic and family associations and had accredited to it about 275 delegates elected by these organizations. In addition, there were many others interested in genealogy, but not officially accredited, who attended the congress. The Utah Genealogical Society sent to the meeting a special train carrying 269 persons from Utah. The program provided that the congress should meet the week following the national convention of the American Historical Association and the week preceding the annual meeting of the American Genetic Association and Second International Conference of Race Betterment. It also provided for meetings in San Francisco of family associations during or as near as possible to the time of the genealogical congress. Some of the latter were held.
This plan and the genealogical congress, first of its kind ever held, were proposed by the Hon. Boutwell Dunlap, of San Francisco, recording secretary of the California Genealogical Society. He first proposed an International Congress of Genealogy and Eugenics. Not desiring to conflict with other eugenic organizations, the name of the congress was later restricted to the International Congress of Genealogy. The invitations to the congress and family associations were issued jointly in the names of the Panama-Pacific International Exposition and the California Genealogical Society.
Some of the organizations that elected delegates to the congress were the National Society of Americans of Royal Descent, Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities, College of Arms and Seigneural Court of Canada, American Society of Colonial Families, New England Historical Genealogical Society, Huguenot Society of America, Louisiana Historical Society, Maine Genealogical Society, Historical Society of New Mexico, Order of Founders and Patriots of America, Society of Genealogists of London, National Genealogical Society, National Society of the Sons and Daughters of the Pilgrims, National Society of Sons of the Revolution.
An International Genealogical Federation was formed and a resolution affecting eugenics, introduced by Mr. Dunlap and unanimously adopted by the congress, was as follows:
"Resolved, that one of the objects of the International Genealogical Federation shall be the collection and preservation of genealogical data for eugenic purposes, and that the committee of organization of said International Genealogical Federation is hereby instructed to provide for the said collection and preservation of genealogical data for eugenic purposes."
Attention To Subscribers
Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 10% discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves.
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
Mothers, educate your daughters ? and sons ? to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation.
Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.
The Most Interesting, Friends of President Inspiring and Beautiful Emmeline B. Wells Scenic Sections of the West Secure the second edition of her Poems for your ChristARE REACHED VIA mas present.
[UNION PACIFIC LOGO] The book is 336 pages, beautifully bound in blue and Including gold, with two illustrations of Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon the distinguished author, and Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park contains her Ode written at Jackson Hole Country the age of 87, as well as all her Lost River Country poems. Wood River Country The Snake River Price $1.50 Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts On sale at the leading book stores, and by subscription to Pacific Coast Excursions the author. Daily to November 30th
For Descriptive Literature, address D. E. Burley, General Passenger Agent, O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah
MAGAZINE AGENTS, ATTENTION!
Agents should always state whether each subscriber is a renewal or a new subscriber.
Stake Presidents are requested to lend their aid and influence to secure loyal subscription lists for our Magazine. Send in your lists early and often.
Z. C. M. I.
School Shoes For Boys
Are made for service ? they keep the boys' feet warm and dry.
Z. C. M. I.
ALLOVERS
are the ideal play garment for boys and girls. Cheap, serviceable.
English and American
ARCHITECTURE
By GEO. M. ALLEN
is in Mrs. Horne's Art Book,
DEVOTEES AND THEIR SHRINES.
Send to this office or to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned.
PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID
It's FREE ? send for the little book "Cameos"
Three thousand words on Cameos
Not a Catalogue, but an interesting, instructive article on Cameos
The only book of its kind published
W. M. McCONAHAY, Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
Cameos in Rings, Scarf Pins, Neck Chains and Brooches, write about them
There is Only One Best Way To Do Anything
Are YOU efficient, or do you THINK you are?
Do you THINK you DESIRE to be EFFICIENT?
Do you THINK it HARD ENOUGH, and is your DESIRE STRONG ENOUGH to carry you through to efficiency?
When you TRAVEL do you do so EFFICIENTLY or HAPHAZARDLY?
The EFFICIENT TRAVELER plans his trip, ascertains what points of interest he is allowed to visit without extra expense ? knows that his ticket carries him to all the points of interest he desires to visit.
The EFFICIENT traveler is sure that his ticket reads over the line that insures him Safety, Service, Scenery, Convenience, Comfort and Courtesy, the
SOUTHERN PACIFIC
INVESTIGATE AND PLAN
For full information, personal attention, carefully planned itineraries and beautifully illustrated literature about CALIFORNIA, call in or write the
SOUTHERN PACIFIC OFFICE, Second Floor, Walker Bank Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The Office where They KNOW All About CALIFORNIA.
We particularly desire to wish a VERY MERRY CHRISTMAS and an EXCEPTIONALLY PROSPEROUS NEW YEAR to the MEMBERS of the GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY who journeyed over our lines on the Excursion to California this year.
C. L. McFAUL, District Passenger Agent, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Mid-winter Excursion TO CALIFORNIA
December 27, 1915