the Relief Society president have been described as the father and the mother of the ward, and in all well-organized families the father is the provider.
"With the development of the Church Welfare Plan the Relief Society's sphere of activity in welfare work has, as stated, been extended, however, and not restricted. Relieved of the necessity for maintaining and administering an independent charity fund, the sisters are more fully devoting their time to caring for the members of the ward family. They are extending such services as caring for the sick (within the past eighteen months in a rather large city on the fringe of the Church my wife and I were confined to our hotel with illness; one person only sought us out to render aid; it was the Relief Society president); comforting the distressed and sorrowing; training the teachable to sew and cook, as also other arts of home-making; adroitly showing mothers and other homemakers how to get the most out of the means at their disposal. THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN CHURCH WELFARE 133 Thus ministering among the people with sympathetic understanding, they are winning and sacredly guarding the confidence of ward members; advising, the bishop in private, as a wise mother does her husband, of the circumstances and needs of each family and ward member; and then administering in the homes, from the substance supplied by the bishops from fast offerings and bishops' storehouses, the assistance determined upon by the bishop in consultation with the Relief Society president. Sometimes with consummate skill they properly "provoke the brethren (the bishops) to good works, in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity, and in administering to their wants," as the Prophet Joseph said they might. Much of the foregoing work and ministration is of a confidential nature requiring special skill, and is therefore to be done under the immediate supervision of the bishop and the Relief Society president. THERE is another field of activity, however, in which every member of the Society may and most of them do participate. It is in the production of the Welfare budget. Annually, each ward undertakes to produce, in so far as it may, commodities food, clothing, and fuel  which may be needed during the coming season by members of the ward who will not be able to care for themselves. Certain surpluses to be made available to other wards are likewise produced. From the total of these surpluses, all bishops in the Church may obtain needed commodities which cannot be produced in their own localities. This is the annual Welfare budget. What the ward undertakes to produce is determined by the bishop and the ward Relief Society president, in consultation with the stake welfare committee. The budget, therefore, reaches the ward through the welfare organization from the General Church Welfare Committee, and members of the General Relief So-city Presidency are advisers to that Board. The production of the budget is a ward responsibility under the leadership of the bishop and his ward welfare committee, of which the ward Relief Society president and work director are members. In too many instances the raising of the finances for the clothing budget is improperly left to the Relief Society. This is a ward responsibility, and should be arranged for by the ward welfare committee as a whole, under the leadership of the bishop. The Relief Society should not be asked to bear this whole burden. An objective of Church Welfare is to afford opportunities for those who need or may need the commodities to produce them, in so far as they may and will. But the fact remains that the production of such items as bedding, clothing, kitchen and bathroom linen, as also the processing of meats, fruits, and vegetables, is assigned to and in large measure accomplished by the Relief Society sisters. This is a tremendous undertaking, far and away greater than could be accomplished out of the funds formerly collected by the Relief Society, and carrying succor and relief to many more needy than the funds formerly collected could provide for. The following figures will suggest the increased activity for helping the poor which has come to the Relief Society sisters participating in this service, and will suggest also the amount of that service and the numbers joining therein. Reports reveal that in 1943 alone  1944 statistics are not yet available  the Relief Society sisters made through their sewing services nearly a quarter million (244,636) articles, and that nearly three quarter million (709,494) hours were given to this service; 32,892 women per month participated; 23,114 of these articles were quilts of high quality and utility value. Not all of these items were for the Church Welfare budget, but a substantial part of them were. Canned for the bishops storehouse program, in 1943, were 1,300,000 cans of vegetables, fruits, jams, and spreads, and 33,800 cans of meat, fish, and fowl. Most of the work involved in this processing was done by members of the Relief Society. We doubt if any other women's philanthropic organization in the world can parallel this remarkable record. Sisters of the Relief Society, your unbroken record of loyal service to the objects set before you by the Prophet of the new dispensation deserves the approval of heaven and the plaudits of men. It is gratifying to know that, at the beginning of your second century, you are continuing with all the good works of the past, and that you are, at the same time, moving in to wider fields of service with renewed faith and vigor. May the Lord grant that, ministering under the power of his spirit, you may so serve the distressed of this and future generations that they may have added cause "to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads."