The Story of a Gifted Lady Leah D. Widtsoe ALICE MERRILL HORNE HE was an unlearned, ordinary looking farmer's lad, who had spent his days at farm drudgery, for his parents were struggling to make the farm produce a scanty living for their growing family. But within him dwelt the power to see beauty in the glowing sunsets, the bright tints of autumn, and the glorious light effects on the mountains, clouds, and valleys wherever he worked. Even the good earth talked to him as he turned the brown fur-Page 150 rows for spring planting. He also possessed the gift of putting on paper or canvas or anything on which he could lay his hands, the pictures which crowded through his mind. So, instead of spending his scanty earnings on new clothes, or guns and powder, with which to kill God's innocent creatures, he bought paper, crayons, paints, and oils, and transferred the pictures of his mind to paper or canvas, until his home was crowded with the results of his leisure efforts. At first his mother encouraged him, but later began to feel that he should be spending his time on something more profitable. Then one day, through a lucky chance, he met A Fairy Godmother She took the time to visit his home, recognized his gift, and told him that he should cultivate it. When told how impossible that would be financially, she volunteered to sell his pictures, thereby helping him to raise money with which to attend a great art school in the East. Then this dainty, but indomitable, art patron went to a number of the well-to-do people in the city, told them the story of the gifted farmer's lad, and soon had sold enough of his pictures to enable him to achieve the ambition of his life. This good lady has rendered similar service for many of Utah's gifted sons and daughters. She has been, and still is, a real fairy godmother THE STORY OF A GIFTED LADY 151 to them, and through her encouragement has taken a leading role in making Utah art conscious. Wouldn't you like to know more about her? Her life story begins in the days when the pioneers were called to settle remote parts of the (then) Territory, and it bristles with tales of Indian unrest as well as the romance of state-building. It is as exciting and interesting as any which begins with the intriguing Once Upon A Time Once in a very great while, an especially gifted spirit is sent to earth to take a body and become a blessing to many people and the state, as well as to family and friends. Such a precious spirit came to the frontier log cabin home of Clarence Merrill and Bathsheba Smith, who were each descended from stalwart Utah pioneers. The father was called by Brigham Young to learn telegraphy, and then to settle first at Cove Creek Fort, that outpost of Indian activity, and later to take care of telegraph operations at Fillmore, which was then the capital of Utah Territory. There a baby daughter was born to them, and was named Alice Smith Merrill. She grew to be a lovely child, who was later to honor highly the name and the lineage she bears. Two of her great-grandparents. Patriarch John Smith and his wife Clarissa Loomis Lyman, were pioneers of 1847, and all four of her grandparents were early pioneers also. Her grandfather, George A. Smith, was both Church historian and first counselor to President Brigham Young, while her grandmother, Bathsheba W. Smith, was the fourth general president of the Relief Society. Two of her great-grandparents passed away before reaching the "Valley." Thus Alice is a true daughter of pioneers, and the fourth generation of believers in the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. The girlhood of this favored child was passed in the ideal environment of a fine, two-story brick home (evolved from the log cabin) located in a quarter block of garden and orchard, in company with a large family of brothers and sisters to help make life a round of merriment as well as of struggle. There were vegetables and fruits to be gathered in summer, wild strawberries and native black currants, choke cherries, and service berries to be brought from the canyons; fruit to be canned and dried in autumn; with quilt blocks to make and rags to be sewed for carpets during the long winter hours when school was out. These chores were varied with pleasurable activities, for her parents were leaders in the Fillmore Dramatic Society, as well as being gifted with musical talents. Around the family hearthstone the family often re-enacted stirring scenes from history or from Shakespeare, each dressing, as best he could, in character. The mother always had a lovely flower garden, and Alice early learned to appreciate the beauties of mountains, streams, blue skies, and cloud effects, as well as the glories of summer gardens and winter scenes of snowy grandeur. In fact, the love of beauty seemed to be a part of her very being, for she sought it in the everyday tasks as well as in her moments of leisure. She loved to draw, and early showed aptitude in transferring to paper the images of her mind. She was a good student also, for when but a child she took a prize in the old rock schoolhouse as the best reader. Then when but eight years old came her Great Adventure After the passing of her grandfather, George A. Smith, her grandmother ("Aunt Bathsheba" to all the other daughters of Zion) was living alone, and lonely. So she invited her granddaughter, Alice, to come to "the city" and live with her in the old Historian's Office, next to the magnificent Gardo House, which was then the official residence of the president of the Church. What a rare experience for this beauty-loving child! Here she helped her grandmother read and sort old letters, classified the hundreds of pictures her grandfather had brought from his trips to Europe and the Holy Land, met and learned to know all the great men and women of early Mormon history, who were intimate friends of her grandmother. From a child to young womanhood, she became associated with the early development of the Relief Society in the new Zion; also the Retrenchment Society, as well as the suffrage movement for Women's Rights, so-called. Meetings for these activities, as well as those of the Women's Deseret Hospital, Woman's Exponent (the pioneer women's newspaper), and many others of pioneer interest, were all conducted in her grandmother's back parlor. Alice was an ardent listener and youthful participant. It is no wonder that she became "organization-minded." When but nine years old she felt to organize the young girls into a society, which they called "The Juvenile Association." She chose six counsellors  instead of two among them the youngest daughter of Brigham Young, Fanny V., Katie B. Fen ton, Lutie Y. Thatcher, Lulu Clawson, Ada Croxall, Edna Wells, with Daisy Woods, a granddaughter of Emme-line B. Wells, as secretary. They visited and prayed for the sick, and later joined, in a body, the first organized Primary Association. Meanwhile, Alice was using her pencil and sketch book as well as attending school. While in Miss Mary Cook's school, she won the prize for the best drawing a sketch from memory given by Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson. Later, she won an award given by the early Utah artist and teacher at the University of Deseret  now the University of Utah-George M. Ottinger. Still later, she won a medal offered by the artist J. T. Harwood, which was awarded by John Hafen, one of Utah's greatest artists. This was naturally a stimulus to her innate desire to produce pictures herself, and to foster in others the love of art, to which her life has been devoted. But art did not claim all her interest. In 1887, she was graduated from the University of Utah. She wrote her thesis on two of Shakespeare's women  Lady Macbeth and Ophelia. Her interest in good literature has always been keen. In 1890, Alice married George Henry Home, also a descendant of stalwart pioneers. He was an ideal husband for this talented woman, for besides being a fine man Jn his own right, he was openminded enough to recognize the