Gratitude For Church Guidance ONE hundred and three years will have passed this March seventeenth since the first auxiliary of the Church, the Relief Society, was established for the benefit of its members and for the good of others. In that year, 1842, the Church had risen triumphant through its first twelve momentous years. It had been driven from New York to Ohio, from Missouri to Illinois, and already the necessary laws and powers for the coming forth and future progress of the Church had been revealed and confirmed. It was during that all-too-brief period of calm between the lashing storms of persecution, while the Church lay, as it were, at safe anchorage on the broad blue waters of the Mississippi at Nauvoo, that a few of the Church women gave utterance to their longing to be formed into an organization so that their united efforts might more speedily and effectually accomplish tasks allotted to them. It is significant that these women did not themselves inaugurate a society, but turned to their Prophet-leader for guidance. At a time and place set by him, he organized them, and under his continued tutelage thus was instituted the Relief Society which grew in one hundred years from a membership of eighteen to over one hundred thousand. The broad basic principles which Page 158 have always governed the Society were laid by the Prophet Joseph Smith; however the planning and putting into execution of these policies have always been entrusted to the officers and members of the Society, who fully merited the confidence thus reposed in them, manifesting a devotion to duty, throughout the years, which has resulted in an immeasurable amount of labor, of loving service, and of enlightenment. Relief Society is obedient to the leadership of Church authorities today as it was one hundred years ago, and stands ready to accept and support new policies as they are deemed desirable. So guided and so conducted, the advancing years will find the Society growing ever more powerful, more potent in building testimonies of the gospel in members, more fully fulfilling its high destiny. On this one hundred and third anniversary, Relief Society members acknowledge the gratitude of their hearts for the guidance of the general and local authorities, for their zealous, watchful care to the end that the services rendered by Relief Society women are being extended in everwidening spheres to keep pace with the accelerated need for such services in the expansion and progression of the Church. M. C. S. EDITORIAL 159 Sarah Eddington?Ida Peterson Beal EARLY in the New Year, two faithful and devoted former members of the General Board of Relief Society passed to the great beyond, in the persons of Sarah Eddington and Ida Peterson Beal. The death of Sister Eddington occurred on January 9, and that of Sister Beal on January 6. In many respects the lives of these two good sisters were similar. They were both daughters of early Utah pioneers, were reared in families where faith and devotion to the gospel were paramount, and their testimonies of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the restored gospel were fervent and strong. Miss Eddington was born June 13, 1861 in Salt Lake City. She was the daughter of William and Sarah Fry Eddington, English converts. From her childhood days she was active in the Church in many capacities. She served as a valued member of the General Board of Relief Society for seven years ?from March 1914 to April 1921. Previous to this she was a member of the General Board of the Y. W. M. LA. For twenty-five years. She was an untiring worker, always willing to do more than her share. She was an efficient committee member and travelled extensively for both the Relief Society and the Y. W. M. IA. Although she was rather frail and delicate physically, she used to say, "Send me on the long, hard trips; I have no home to take care of, no husband, and no children. I am free and my chief interest in life is the Church and its progress." Sister Eddington was especially gifted as a public speaker. She was both eloquent and impressive, and was always able to hold her audience whether it was made up of children, young people, or those of mature years. IDA PETERSON BEAL was born in Ephraim, Sanpete County, Utah, on February 7, 1876, the daughter of President Canute Peterson and Chariotte Eckstrom Peterson. Her Church interests and activities began early and continued throughout her life in the various auxiliary organizations of the Church. She was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society in August 1927, where she served faithfully and efficiently for thirteen years. Sister Beal received her education in the schools of her native town, at the Snow Academy, and at the Brig-ham Young University. In the last named institution she majored in music under the tutelage of Professor A. C. Lund, and became one of his star pupils and one of the sweetest singers in Zion. She took the leading role in the first opera produced by Brigham Young University. Sister Beal had many opportunities for study and travel, and she made the most of them. She accompanied her husband, Dean T. A. Beal of the University of Utah, to 
New York where, for three years, he studied at Columbia University. She later accompanied him to Europe where, for one year, they both took advantage of educational and cultural opportunities there. Probably Sister Berit's greatest contribution to the General Board was as chairman of the music committee in which capacity she directed the annual
organization, and was instrumental in developing the great central chorus of Singing Mothers. However, she travelled extensively to stake Night Society conferences where her lovely spirit and sweet personality won friends and supporters to the great Relief Society cause.
A.B.L.