The Lonesome House Olive Woolley Burt GRANDMA JACKSON never did know just what made her choose a different route home on that sunny, spring day. It might have been, she realized later, the invitation in the south wind that reminded her so of her birthplace; or it might have been the red and yellow tulips in the yard next to Let-tie's, flaunting their individuality almost insolently. But whatever the cause, Grandma Jackson did not turn east at the drugstore corner as she should have done. She went west, instead, and walked two blocks out of her way just so she could pass the park, brave in its new spring dress. Having passed the park, Grandma Jackson didn't even then turn toward Will's house, but wandered along slowly, savoring the sweetness of spring that was carried to her country-born senses by the soft breeze. She came, finally, to a little side street and turned down it, just because it was something like a country lane, with the street unpaved, a ditch of clear water running beside the curb, and tall trees arching over the sidewalk. And it was down this little side street, just about the middle of the block, that Grandma Jackson came upon the little house. It was an old, weather-beaten house, set back from the shady street in a yard overgrown with grass and flowers. Crocuses and daffodils, tulips and hyacinths, that and once apparently been planted in neat borders along the walk, now sprang up everywhere in the lush grass, making the shaggy lawn a veritable crazy patch of gay color. Grandma Jackson put her hand on the rickety gate and looked wistfully into the yard. It was so homelike, so poignantly familiar ? it looked so much the way she felt-little and old and gray, but with vivid, insurgent thoughts. She pushed the gate gently and it swung open, so she went down the neglected walk. The house was obviously empty. The wide porch across the front sagged toward the grassy earth, but Grandma Jackson didn't notice that. She was thinking what a nice porch it would be to sit on of an evening, rocking and dreaming till time to go to bed. She crossed the porch and peered in at the dusty, small-paned windows. She couldn't see much except the bright squares of sunlight on the bare, wooden floor. She went to the door and tried the knob gently; and, when the door yielded, she shrugged her small bent shoulders and walked resolutely in and looked around. There were two rooms. In the one which Grandma Jackson instinctively called the living room were three windows, two facing south and one west. They'd get all the winter sun there is, she thought, seeing her little rocking chair there between the two windows, a crocheted rug beneath her feet, a gray Page  cat purring contentedly in the patch of sunlight. She went into the bedroom and sighed. It was just the right size for her old-fashioned bed and highboy. In the little lean-to kitchen, an old rusty cook stove had been left, and Grandma Jackson's lips curved into a tender smile at sight of it. It was on just such a stove that she had done her first cooking for William; it was at just such a stove he had used to sit of a winter evening, his stockinged feet in the open oven. There was nothing like a coal stove for real warmth and comfort, Grandma Jackson told herself softly. Let the young folks have their furnaces and their gas and oil?a good coal stove was the thing to warm old bones by. She tried the back door, and found it, too, unlocked, so she went into the little back yard, fenced in, and overgrown with currant bushes, a small strawberry patch, and grass everywhere. She heard a trickle and looked about her and found the reason for the lush greenishness. A very tiny spring bubbled through the tangled mass at one side of the yard and ran down a choked ditch to join the ditch along the curb in the front. Grandma Jackson smiled triumphantly, as if she had discovered a looked for treasure. That was why this street was different from all the others. There must be several of these small springs along the block and they gave that special loveliness to the grass and the trees. It was a long time before Grandma Jackson could tear herself away from the little house. She loved it already, as if they two had some secret affinitv. But she knew she shouldn't stay so long. Will's wife, Clara, would be worried. If Lettie had phoned as she usually did to see whether her mother had made the short trip from her house to her brother's safely, they would all be out searching for her. They always told her to go straight along, and here she had flagrantly ignored their advice. She pulled the doors shut carefully and went slowly down the path and out of the rickety gate. She looked back from the sidewalk, and the house peered at her lonesomely from the two windows, the porch roof bent like a wistful eyebrow above them. Grandma Jackson waved gently, to reassure the little house, then squared her shoulders and turned her face purposefully toward her son's house. She arrived before Lettie phoned, before there was any uproar over her vagary. She went to her room and took off her hat, and hung it carefully in the crowded little closet. She looked at her beloved old bed? a piece of furniture Clara hated? and touched the pieced quilt gently as she passed. It would look just right?but she musn't think of that. Downstairs she looked about for her rocker. This had grown to be an unconscious gesture on her part, derived from the habit Clara had of moving Grandma's rocker from place to place in the room, so it wouldn't wear the nap off the carpet. Grandma saw where the little chair now stood and went to it and sat down and tried to knit, but the chair was in a dark corner, and her eyes were dim, and she was dreadfully tired, so she just sat. Will's two grandchildren, noisy and dirty, came into the living room THE LONESOME HOUSE and began to climb over Grandma and her chair. She loved the little fellows, but their hands were sticky. If she got up and took care of them, Clara and Trudy would be offended, taking it as an insult to their own care of the children. So Grandma shrank into herself as much as she could, and let the boys have their way uncomplaining. That night Grandma Jackson dreamed of the little house. It was furnished with her own things, and she was living in it quietly, happily. Her children and their children and grandchildren came to see her and she was glad to have them because, in her own house, she could gently but firmly keep them in their places. She awoke and lay staring into the dark, and the longing for the little gray house became so acute it was a physical aching. But it was useless. There was no way to relieve the ache. If she had only saved a little money! But how could she, with four children to rear and educate? They had all had such good minds ?such great possibilities. She had scrimped and saved, and then spent freely to send them to college, to get them established in their chosen fields. She sighed and turned over and determined to sleep. What couldn't be cured must be endured, she knew from past years of wanting and going without. But she couldn't keep back the tears that squeezed under the soft wrinkled lids with their thin gray lashes; she couldn't stop the ache that tortured her old, tired heart. THE next afternoon Grandma Jackson put on her straw bonnet and took her knitting bag and said, almost too casually, "Well, Clara, it's such a nice day, I think I?ll take a little walk." Clara looked at her mother-in-law, surprised. "Why don't you wait till it's cooler?" she shouted, and Grandma Jackson shuddered involuntarily. Clara always yelled at her in the belief that she was deaf, and Grandma's quiet assurances to the contrary had no effect. "I'll just walk down the shady side of the street," Grandma protested. "But you may get a sunstroke!" Clara fussed. "Lots of old people do, walking in the sun." "I'll keep in the shade," Grandma repeated, determined not to be talked out of her little excursion. "Well," Clara was openly doubtful. "Don't go too far, I'll be worried till you get back. I'll be watching out for you." "No, don't Clara," Grandma begged. "If I get a wee bit tired, I'll stop in at Anabelle Truman's. She's been begging me to come, and I'm taking my knitting along." Grandma saw the triumphant look that leaped into Clara's eyes, and smiled secretly. Clara thought she had slyly found out where Grandma was going. She smiled sweetly at the old woman now. "Be careful crossing the streets," she shouted, and Grandma escaped into the afternoon sun. She walked demurely enough down the street toward her old friend's house, and right on past. She turned the corner and hurried along, straight to the little side street, straight to the rickety gate halfway down the block. There Grandma Jackson stopped and waved greeting to the little lonesome house. It was just as she had remembered it! It hadn't been a dream. Grandma pushed open the gate and walked up the path to the porch. She sat down on the low step, took off her hat, and laid her knitting bag beside her. When Grandma Jackson realized she was thirsty, she remembered the little spring, and went around the house to the back. There was noth-ink to drink from, so she knelt on the grass and scooped up the cold water in her wrinkled old hands and drank it lovingly, gratefully. She was suddenly young again, with young William laughing beside her. She got up carefully and went to the back stoop and sat there, thinking of William and of their children. Suddenly, Grandma Jackson realized that when she thought of her children she never thought of them as they were now?grown men and women with children of their own. She thought of them as babies at her breast, as little folks starting off to school, as youngsters with problems of their own they brought to her, even as laughing soldiers going off to the last war?but never as middle-aged individuals ? never as married folk. Somehow, she had to admit to herself, they didn't seem much like her children any more. She wished that she had been able to keep one of them, at least, hers. Then she shook her head impatiently, she didn't wish any such thing. At last. Grandma got up with a sigh, went around to the front and, picking up her hat and knitting bag, she started home again. That was the first of her secret visits to the little house. As the days passed and the delight of spring grew into the reality of summer. Grandma's little afternoon walk became such a habit that Clara forgot to wonder and to ask questions. She had evidently talked it over with Will and Lettie, and they'd made up their minds to let her alone in her queer vagary. All old folks had some strange ways, and this was harmless. Grandma Jackson was glad for this acquiescence, and she took every advantage of their apparent indifference. First, it was Will's pruning shears. She had noticed that the currant bushes would have to be trimmed back, so she slipped the shears into her knitting bag one day, and when she got to the little house, she hurried around to the back yard and set to work. The pruning done, the uncouth state of the strawberry bed cried aloud for correction, so the next afternoon, Grandma Jackson pulled strawberry suckers till her hands were sore and her legs trembled, and her back ached, but she was happier than she had been for years. Bit by bit, the back yard took on a more civilized air, and the bushes and vines, as if grateful for attention, sent out showers of fragrant blossoms. The old lilac tree was so burdened that Grandma picked an armful of the lovely flowers, and then, not knowing how to explain them at home, she looked about for some way of keeping them here. She put them in an old bucket and set them inside the door, and the next day she went out of her way to go to the five-and-ten cent store to get a crock to put the blossoms in. In the store, she saw a tiny teakettle THE LONESOME HOUSE 171 and she suddenly thought how nice it would be to have a cup of postum of an afternoon when she had finished her work. So she bought the teakettle and some postum and wafers. TT was by easy stages like this, that Grandma Jackson moved into the empty house. At first, she sat on an old box, but one day Claude tucked a little check into his letter? a thing he frequently did?and Grandma bought a tiny second-hand rocker, and had it delivered, giving the man explict directions to put it in the back yard, as she wouldn't be there 'with her other things" for a day or two. And once the rocking chair was placed between the two windows, it would have taken more resolution than Grandma possessed to convince herself that she was trespassing, or that she had no right to these harmless afternoons. AT home, Lettie and Will and Clara mentioned how much happier Grandma looked. Will said, "Well, Grandma, I guess those afternoon walks of yours are just what you need. Maybe we've kept you too cooped up. You look better than you have in all the years since father died." Nobody bothered Grandma in her little house. No one ever came to the door or gave any sign of being interested in what went on there. That is until one afternoon, when the woman who lived next door, whom Grandma had sometimes seen in her little yard hanging out clothes or playing with her three children, came dashing over, her hair all tumbled, her eyes frantic. She pounded on the back door and Grandma Jackson opened it fearfully. Seeing the frightened creature before her, Grandma Jackson wanted to say "Come in! Tell me what's wrong!" but she couldn't do that, so she stepped out onto the little porch, pulled the kitchen door shut behind her, and asked, "What's the matter?" "My baby!" the woman gasped. "Something has happened to her. Can't you hear her screaming? I don't know what's the matter! I can't get a doctor? someone's on the line and won't let me have it. I'm frantic?" Grandma Jackson didn't wait to hear any more. She hurried along, her little old legs taking her through a gap in the fence, past the frightened mother. Yes, she could hear the baby screaming, the particularly anguished cries that accompany severe and unidentified agony. Grandma Jackson picked the child up and held her a moment, watching her carefully. Then the wrinkled, experienced fingers began to feel carefully over the little legs and body and arms. As the gentle pressure reached the child's face and ear, the screams became more piercing, and the child shrank under the soft touch. Her two little brothers, watching, frightened, began to cry. "It's her ear," Grandma Jackson said. "Has she put something in her ear?" "She couldn't!" cried the mother, "she hasn't had anything small enough!" Grandma Jackson looked at the two little boys, but the mother flung her arm around them. "Not them, either!" she cried. "Baby was lying on her quilt in her play pen on the lawn. They couldn't have reached her."
"It's an ant then," said Grandma. "Get me some warm oil and a warm linen rag."
While the mother was getting the materials, Grandma soothed the baby, then she laid her on her left side and very carefully poured the warm oil into the tiny ear. She laid the warm linen against it and fanned the child over on her right side.
Gradually the sobs began to moderate, and in a very short while the exhausted baby slept against Grandma's lap, with only an occasional sob to remind them of what she had been through.
Grandma removed the linen and held it toward the mother. On it lay a black ant, drugged by the oil.
When Grandma Jackson laid the baby gently in her crib and took the small boys' hands to tiptoe with them from the room, the mother said, "I don't know how I can thank you, Mrs.?"
"Jackson," said Grandma. "Mrs. Jackson," she repeated, the phrase pleasing her with its recognition of her as something besides a grandmother.
"It must have been terribly painful. Won't you have a glass of cool lemonade before you leave?"
So Grandma Jackson sat down and drank lemonade with her neighbor.
"You don't know how glad I am that you're my neighbor," Mrs. Cook said, sincerely, after they had introduced themselves. "I am so dumb with the children. When anything happens I go all to pieces. I'm sure I came over to welcome you before," she explained, a little ashamed that she had not met this kind old woman until necessity demanded it, "but you are there so seldom?". She hesitated and flushed, and Grandma Jackson knew that this little woman must have peered through the windows, must have seen the barren rooms.
"Well, you see," Grandma began honestly, not caring to hide the facts from these sympathetic ears, "I'm not there much. Just an hour or two in the afternoons. You see?" and she went on to tell her new friend how she had found the house, how she had fallen in love with it, how she had finally moved in.
Mrs. Cook listened understandingly, but when Grandma had finished, she asked, "Why don't you tell your children? I'll bet if they knew, if they understood how you feel, they'd be glad to get it for you. I know I'd want my mother to have anything?if only she were alive!"
Grandma Jackson patted her neighbor's hand.
"Yes," she agreed. "I suppose they would. But it is silly, my having a whole house, when Will has an extra room. And I have no way of keeping in?light and coal and food and everything. We sort of talked it over when William died, the children and I, and we decided it would be smarter for me to stay at Will's and help Clara with the children. They were younger then, you know, and I could help a lot and stay with them at night when Will and Clara wanted to go out. And then, it isn't far to Lettie's, and I can run over and help her. I'd rather live with Lettie," she added wistfully, "but?" "Well," Mrs. Cook comforted, THE LONESOME HOUSE 173 "you can probably enjoy the little house as long as you want to. We've lived here four years and have never seen anyone around the place. Oh, right at the first of the war boom/' she corrected, 'people looked at it. But it isn't modern, you know, and so run down, no one wanted it." Now that Grandma knew her neighbor, she could ask for nothing more. She was so happy that she sometimes awakened in the night, and lay trembling, fearful of losing the little house and all it stood for in her lonely days. Then Claude wrote, asking her to come to visit him for awhile. Grandma Jackson had always gone when her baby boy called, but this time she didn't want to go away. She shook her head and wrote to Claude, but said nothing to Will or Lettie. A more urgent invitation came, and Claude wrote to Will, too, to persuade his mother. There was no way to explain her reluctance at going away without revealing her secret, so at last, under Will's and Lettie's insistence, she packed and went. She stayed two weeks and wired Will, "Will be home on the 8:15 P. M. Tuesday." TAILL was at the station to meet her. He seemed more jovial than before, really happy to have her back again, she thought. He took her to the house, asking questions about Claude and Helen and the boys, all three of whom were in service. Clara and the children also seemed extra glad to see Grandma again, and she thought, "Maybe they do like to have me here. Maybe it's a good thing to go away, so they can miss me once in a while." But when she went upstairs to take off her things, she stood still inside the door to her room, her heart shaken, her lips trembling like a lost child's. And she knew, then, why they had insisted on her going away. Clara had had a chance to do over Grandma's room. She had got rid of the ugly wooden bed she hated, and the old highboy, and the room was bright and streamlined and modern. A narrow, hard little bed stood where the big bed had been. Her old patchwork quilt, even, was gone! In a few minutes. Grandma took off her hat and coat very quietly, and hung them in the closet. She went downstairs and joined the family, not saying a word. They seemed strangers to her now, rather cruel strangers, and their titillating joviality was not deep enough to hide the nervous shame they felt at tricking her. At last Will could stand it no longer. He said, "I guess you noticed that Clara's redone your room, Grandma?" he asked tentatively. Grandma nodded. She couldn't speak. "You'll like it better, once you get used to it. Did you notice we put in a little bathroom, all your own? He was too enthusiastic, and Grandma said, wishing to ease his embarassment, "Yes, it's very nice." She wouldn't let them know?oh, she would never let them know-but if her little house was gone, too, how could she bear it? She saw Will's pitying glance as she went up to bed. She walked slowly, she knew, though she tried to straighten the bent shoulders. And, once in the hard, narrow bed, she buried her tired old head in her arms and wept. All the next morning, Grandma kept her eyes on the cloek. She could hardly eat, could hardly talk, waiting for the time to come when she could slip away and see what had happened to her little house. As soon as she decently could, she said, "Guess Til take a little walk, Clara," and left before anyone could interfere. Grandma Jackson nearly ran all the way to the house. She was possessed of a strange feeling she couldn't define, and she was dreadfully afraid. But it was still there, gray and withdrawn and lonely, as she had left it. She paused at the gate long enough to wave a greeting, to let the house know she was back, and then she went up the walk and opened the door. For the second time within a few hours she stopped still and stared about her. There it was, just as she had dreamed it would be, with her rocker between the two windows, a round crocheted rug in front of it, even a fat gray cat, that rose and stretched and came and rubbed against Grandma's legs. Her old, pedal sewing machine that Clara had persuaded her to sell, was under a window, piled high with fluffy white curtaining. When Grandma got her breath, she walked cautiously across the floor and peered into the bedroom, and there was her old bed with its patchwork quilt, her highboy, with William's picture in its funny frame on top of it. It was all she could do to get into the kitchen, and to stare at the little stove, shining and black now, and the row of new small kettles in the cupboard sparkling with yellow paint, exactly like her very first kitchen. Grandma sank down in the little rush-bottomed chair beside the oldfashioned sink, and the tears ran down her face. She wasted no time thinking she had blundered into someone else's house?this was hers ? every bit of it. But how it had come to be she had no idea. She was still sitting there when she heard knocking on the door, and she went slowly to open it, her heart pounding, thinking that maybe, after all, she had been mistaken, or dreaming, or crazy. Will and Clara and Lettie and Lettie's little girl, Rhoda, stood there, beaming and laughing. "How do you do, Mrs. Jackson," Will boomed, the noise in his voice and the laughter in his eyes trying to cover up the love and tears that threatened him. "Won't you invite us in, Mother?" Lettie's arms were about her. "Were you surprised. Mother? We were almost scared to do it, but oh. We wanted so for you to have it, and we were afraid you would object?" "It is rather foolish?," Grandma made her lips say, but Will shook her tenderly. "Not at all. Don't worry about that room at our place. We can find some war worker to rent it to. And as for keeping the place up," he smiled deep into her eyes, "don't pretend you don't know about allowances! You understood them well enough when we went to school. And now you're going to have a dose of your own good medicine!"
As they talked it all came out, how they had become suspicious of her daily walks and had followed her, how Claude had talked to Mrs. Cook and how Claude had been worked in on their scheme.
After they left Grandma set about getting her first real supper in years. Her hands trembled as she lit the fire and filled the teakettle. She set the table and stood looking at it in the light of the friendly little kerosene lamp, when Mrs. Cook came to the door.
"May I come in, Mrs. Jackson?" she asked, "and formally welcome you as my neighbor?"
Grandma Jackson pulled forward the little chair and Mrs. Cook sank into it. The old woman noticed
that her neighbor's cheeks were pale, her lips pinched with weariness.
"Are the children in bed?" she asked, and as Mrs. Cook nodded she urged, "stay and have a bite of supper with me, then, you look a mite peaked."
The younger woman leaned back, wearily.
"I am tired," she said. "The children have been little terrors today. Sometimes," she said softly, "I hardly think I can ever go through it again."
Grandma Jackson smiled understandingly.
"Children are a chore," she agreed as she served the food, "and at times you can hardly see how they're worth it. But they are, my dear. They are."