hall. In an alcove, designed by Sister M.
A. Winters, tastefully arranged with lace
curtains draped back with a golden chain
and ornamented with flowers, were seated
the bride and groom. On the walls hung
family groups and historic pictures encased
in golden frames. In a conspicious place,
hung the old rifle, well remembered by the
pioneer camp, which in the hands of Brother
Brown never failed to bring in their game,
he thus earned the title of "the hunter of
the camp." The guests began to arrive at
4 p. m., and offered greeting to the vener-
able couple, with appropriate sentiments.
	Social conversation was indulged in till

[Column 2]
called to order by Master of Ceremonies,
Alex. Bullock. Elder Edward Stevenson
offered the opening prayer which was fol-
lowed by singing “Love at home,” full
chorus. Short speeches were made by
Pioneer Battalion veterans, old reminiscenses
were brought to mind. At 6. p. m. one
hundred and twenty-five guests partook of
refreshments, the tables made an imposing
appearance with lovely floral decorations
and immense wedding cake appropriately
ornamented.
	After the inner man was satisfied Brother
J. J. Hayes rendered an original poem
which reflected great credit upon the author.
Mrs. F. E. Stewart gave a retrospect on
the life work of this venerable couple,
which was a pleasing surprise to Brother
and Sister Brown as it carried them back to
the scenes of youth, courtship and marriage,
and along through the varied changes of
life.
	Letters of congratulation and regret were
read by Brother Jas. T. Thorne from their
Son James L. who is attending the Univer-
sity at Ann Arbor also from several of their
daughters who were unable to be present.
	Brother and Sister Stevenson addressed
the assemblage, also speeches from other
guests interspersed with songs and recita-
tions.
	A response was given by the venerable
couple, expressing their sincere gratitude to
all who had contributed to the entertain-
ment of the evening. All convention-
alities were laid aside, a spirit of peace and
love pervaded the assembly and all agreed
that it was the most enjoyable time they
had ever experienced.
	This was entered upon the ward records
as the first Golden Wedding celebrated in
Pleasant Grove. M. A. W.

