on before, in charge of Elder Chauncy Webb, to
whom she said when placing them in his care,
“I trust them with you, as I would with my
Heavenly Father” and although their father was
fearful of never seeing them again, the mother
had perfect faith and confidence, that she would
meet them again, when she should come to Utah,
which she did in 1858.
	When they first came to Utah they went to
Cottonwood Ward to live, where they were
neighbors of the late Sister Elizabeth Howard
for two years. From Cottonwood they moved to
Southern Utah, and lived in different places for
awhile, finally settling in Scipio, Millard Co.
	About the year 1873 Sister Player came to Salt
Lake City and purchased a home in the nine-
teenth ward where she resided until she died.
	She was for many years a teacher in the Sab-
bath School of that ward, and the Relief Society;
on the second of November 1877, she was set
apart to act as second Counselor to President
Rachel Whipple in the Relief Society which of-
fice she faithfully and efficiently filled, until the
ward was divided, when by the division President
Whipple was left in the newly created twenty
second Ward, making it necessary to organize a
new Society in the nineteenth Ward, First Coun-
selor Ann E. Neal being chosen as President,
Sister Player was chosen as first Counselor to her
in the Relief Society in the nineteenth Ward to
which office she was set apart on April 30th, 1890,
and which she filled at the time of her death.
	Sister Player was blessed wonderfully with the
gift of healing, many of her friends testifying of
their speedy restoration to health under her ad-
ministration.
	She was ever kind and charitable to the poor
and the afflicted, firm in her integrity to the Truth,
and passed peacefully away after much suffering
in the hope of a glorious resurrection with the
just. She leaves one son, three daughters,
twenty-one grand-children and twelve great-
grand children, besides a host of friends and fel-
low laborers to mourn her loss.
	Although we mourn her departure from our
midst, we rejoice that she has fought the good
fight, and kept the faith; and although death has


seemingly gained the victory, she will triumph
over death and the grave, which must yield her
up, in the resurrection morn, when the trump
shall sound, and the call go forth saying to the
sleeping dust, Arise!			C.C.R.W.


