SALT LAKE STAKE.
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake convened in the As-
sembly Hall June 15th, 1894. President
M. I. Horne presiding. On the stand with
the President was Counselor E. S. Taylor,
Aids Julia C. Howe and Lydia D. Alder,
President Zina D. Young and others.
Meeting opened with singing, “Come,
come ye Saints,” etc. Prayer by Sister
Margaret Steele. Singing, “For the
strength of the hills we bless thee,” etc.
Minutes of previous morning session read and
approved. Roll called and responded to
as follows, nineteen branches represented
by Presidents, ten by Counselors, one by
Secretary, and one by Treasurer; making
thirty-one branches, leaving seventeen with-
out representation. President Horne in her
opening remarks spoke of the peculiar
times in which we are living and of the
necessity of living near to our Heavenly
Father. The things we are passing
through had been predicted and we should
be prepared to meet them. Expressed her
regrets at there being so few officers
present, thought they did not honor their
positions; if they were not alive to their
duties they could not expect much of the
members. They should stimulate and set
good examples to the rest, spoke further on
the duties and responsibilities devolving
upon officers of Relief Society, and of the
importance of using our time and ability in
the building up of Zion. Verbal reports,
first Ward, President Steele, second,
President Bassett; third, Counselor Smith;
fourth, Counselor Sperry; seventh, Counse-
lor Cooper; eighth, Treasurer Morris; ninth
President Mair; tenth, Counselor Pyper;
eleventh, Counselor Morris; twelfth, Presi-
dent Druce; thirteenth, President, Grant;
fourteenth, President Wilcox; sixteenth,
President Reid; seventeenth, Secretary
Bull; eighteenth, Counselor Wright; nine-
teenth President Neal; twentieth, Presi-
dent Miller; twenty-first, Counselor Taylor;
twenty-second, President Whipple; Center
Ward, President Whittaker; Brighton,
President Hazon; Draper, Secretary Burn-
ham; Farmer’s Ward, President Turnbow;
Granger, President Porter; North Jordan,
President Pixton; Pleasant Green, Presi-
dent Hurst; Riverton, President Silcock;
Sugar House, Counselor Hardy; South
Cottonwood, President Rawlins; Sandy,
President Olsen; Union, Counselor Griffiths.
All testified to the good spirit that prevailed
in their branches, and the good being done
among the poor, President Horne said she
was pleased with the reports. Thought

[Column 2]
meeting should be held twice a month, it
it was the order in the first organization,
thought the time could be profitably spent.
Spoke of the liberality of the people in
donating to the poor, and made other re-
marks pertaining to the Relief Society.
Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. singing
Doxology. Benediction by Sister Julia C.
Howe.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—On the stand
with President Horne were her Counselors,
E. S. Taylor and H. M. Whitney, Aids—
Julia C. Howe and Lydia D. Alder, Presi-
dent Zina D. Young and President Angus
M. Cannon. Opened with singing, “We
thank Thee O God for a Prophet,” etc.
Prayer by Sister Webb. Singing, “Our
God we raise to Thee,” etc. Minutes of
previous afternoon read and approved.
President Zina D. H. Young addressed the
Conference, said she was happy to see so
many present, the more there were the
greater strength we would have. Spoke of
the work being done in the Temple, and
the holy influence that existed there. Gave
instructions in regard to holding Relief
Society meetings, said business and other
meetings should be separate.
	Counselor E. S. Taylor made remarks,
giving good counsel to Presidents of the Re-
lief Society. They should be alive to their
duties, and should instruct members in re-
gard to theirs. Said when each Relief
Society was reorganized, they should
send for the Stake Officers as a matter of
courtesy; was pleased and surprised at the
donations that had been received, thought
the Lord had blessed the efforts of the
sisters. Counselor H. M. Whitney said it
had been sometime since she had the
pleasure of meeting us, she had been weak
but the Lord had strengthened her. Spoke
of the necessity of meeting together often
to partake of the bread of life, and bore a
faithful testimony of God’s goodness to her.
	Dr. E. B. Furgeson addressed the meeting
on the subject of Home Industry, spoke of
a Home Industry Association that was to
be organized, the object of which was to
devise means to care for the destitute this
coming winter, and to furnish work for
women as a great many would need em-
ployment. The membership fee would be
twenty-five cents. Pointed out the benefits
that would be derived from the movement,
and urged those present to take an interest
in the same. President Angus M. Cannon
felt gratified with what he had heard. It
had brought to his mind the first organiza-
tion, which was then called a Benevolent
Society, and related some pleasing incidents
of the same, said Emma Smith was the
first who held the dignity of President, and
spoke of her as being a high-minded noble
woman, and said she never made the af-
fidavits attributed to her. The name of the
organization was changed to Relief Society
at her request. Spoke of the Prophet
Joseph giving the first donation of $5.00
Spoke at some length on the proper or-
ganization of the Relief Society, gave good
advice to the sisters, and hoped they would
prove efficient workers. President M. I.
Horne felt to thank Brother Cannon for
his words of counsel and instruction.
Urged the sisters to take the EXPONENT, it
was the only woman’s paper and should be
sustained; made other closing remarks.
Meeting was adjourned for three months.
Sang, “Lord dismiss us with thy blessing.”
Benediction by President Angus M.
Cannon.
ELLA W. HYDE, Ass’t. Sec.


