[Column 1]			
			WAYNE STAKE.
	RELIEF SOCIETY Conference convened
in the Thurber Meeting House, May 28th,
our Stake President W. E. Robinson and
Counselor Bastain and other Brethren were
present. President Jane S. Coleman pre-
siding. Singing, “Now let us rejoice in
the day of Salvation.” Prayer offered by
Counselor G. Bastian. Singing, “The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
Minutes of last conference read and ap-
proved. President J. S. Coleman said she
was pleased to meet in conference and to
see so many present, prayed the spirit of
the Lord to rest on the speakers; expected
the representatives of the local branches of
the Relief Society to give reports; that it
would also be a fitting time for mothers to
advance ideas pertaining to rearing our
children in faith and good works. The
branches of Relief Society were represented,
Loa, by Counselor Elizabeth C. Jeffrey;
Thurber, President Sarah Meeks; Caneville,
President Eliza Rust; Blue Valley, Presi-
dent Mary Ann Lords; Eldrich, President
Theresa Coombs; all were reported in good
condition. The Lectures on Faith were the
leading subjects in their testimony meet-
ings.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn spoke of the
changes that are taking place, the trials of
raising a family, felt the Lord would be
merciful towards us if we strive to do our
duty towards our children, felt to sustain
the Priesthood, bore a faithful testimony to
the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Tisbah Hanks said, during con-
ference she had enjoyed a spiritual feast,
spoke on the training of children and the
gifts of the Gospel.
	Sister Lucinda Brown spoke upon the
privileges the young people enjoy and of
their Improvement Associations. Gave good
counsel to young mothers, said it was their
privilege to enjoy the revelations of God to
direct them in raising their families if they
seek after it.
	Sister Sarah A. Robinson spoke upon the
duties of the wife and mother in the ab-
sence of the husband in governing the
family and having the children take part in
family devotion.
	Counselor G. Bastain said he had listened
with pleasure to the reports and the good
subjects spoken upon; spoke appreciatively
of the labors of the Relief Society, referred
to his misson in Scandanavia where there
was a branch of the Church with only two
Brethren and the rest were Sisters, how
diligent they were in good works, the sub-
ject of economy was treated upon in good
style.
	Singing, “Who are these arrayed in
white.” Benediction by Elder. T. R.
Forsythe.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Singing, “We
thank thee O, God for a Prophet.” Prayer
offered by Bishop William Meeks. “Sing-
ing, “Do what is right.” 
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe spoke upon
the instruction give at the April Relief
Society General Conference. The care of
our children, economy, silk culture, and
other subjects.
	Freemont Relief Society, reported by
President Louisa J. Taylor; Wilmoth,
Counselor Maria Jakeman; Teasdale,
President Mary E. Adams; Grover, Coun-
selor Ellen Stewart. The reports were
good, they also made the Lectures on Faith
a study.
	Sister Viola Brinkerhoff said we should

[Column 2]
raise our daughters to make good wives and
mothers, and be satisfied with their lot in
life, and to clothe and care for our children
that they may grow up healthy and strong.
Sisters Sarah Durphy, Albina Young, Eliza
Brinkerhoff, Mary Bullard all spoke, bear-
ing testimony to the truth of the Gospel
and made instructive remarks. President
J.S. Coleman felt the time had been well
spent, “we must all try to put in practice
what we have heard, it is the practical part
that counts for good or ill, let us show in
our lives that we are not only hearers of
the word but doers of it also.”
	President W. E. Robinson said the Relief
Society was a great support in the wards,
felt to sustain and encourage the sisters in
their labor of love, the teaching of the
faithful mother was felt for good the in-
fluence of the wife with the husband was
greater than we can comprehend; prayed
the blessing of God to rest on the Relief
Society that it may be prospered and be a
power for good among the people. Singing
“How firm a foundation.” Benediction by
Elder Joseph Eckersly.
