been before, hope the sisters from the 
country wards will come forward as usual.
Let us give Country visitors a Royal Wel-
come. We have been grandly entertained
by our Country Friends on previous oc-
casions. Let us manifest our appreciation;
making them as welcome and happy, it
will be a day long to be remembered. We
would like each Ward to prepare for at
least fifty more than their own aged. Fur-
ther instructions will be given through the
Bishops of the various wards. Addressing
Sister Horne, Brother Jenson said, “I
would now like to speak on some other sub-
ject. I want to say the Relief Society
keeps the most complete records of any
organization I know of in the Church. I
also find they take good care of the records.
There are exceptions of course. We have
in some instances, had to go to the Relief
Society for data concerning Bishops.”
Spoke a short time on the Martyrdom of
the Prophet, had recently visited Carthage.
“Its my opinion the Prophet was killed
while in the window it being so near the
ground, it seems to me impossible he could
have been hurt by falling so short a dis-
tance. The old Jail is now used as a dwell-
ing house, the room in which they were
shot, as a bed room. The old well has
been filled up, and a beautiful flower
garden takes its place. The lady in charge
is very pleasant, often giving a bunch of
flowers as a token of remembrance to those
who visit there. I am pleased to state we
have, at last, been able to obtain the old
records of David Whitmer, much of im-
portance to our people is contained therein.”
Made other interesting remarks.
	Sister Horne said, “I am pleased that
Brother Jenson has touched upon the sub-
ject he has. I well remember the first time
I shook hands with the Prophet I was
thrilled through as with an electric shock.
I could testify to the whole world I knew
he was a Prophet of God. Think of what
a mighty man he must have been, I have
heard him tell of his first vision. No other
mortal man ever accomplished as much as
he did. His life was threatened repeatedly,
yet was spared to complete his wonderful
work. Tongue cannot tell what joy I ex-
perience in being permitted to live in this
period of time.” Exhorted sisters to be
faithful in all things pertaining to the
Gospel, etc.
	Sister Sarah Kimball said, “I am afraid
I cannot control my feelings, I was present
at the meeting of the Relief Society, the
third meeting, I think, when we received
the first intimation of the Prophet going
home. He told the Sisters to cultivate love,


