OLD FOLKS DAY.

	Is it possible that old folks day will be
recognized this year, I must say that it
hardly seemed probable, for since monopoly 
and labor have had so hard a struggle to
know which will be victorious, it seems to
paralyze all business affairs: but I am happy
to learn that it has not affected the love
that our people have for each other; and I
hope it may never hinder us from placing
our affections upon those who have proved 
themselves worthy of our love, by adher-
ing to sound and true principles.
	Old folks day is truly a joyful one to the
aged, and seems to be to the youth as well,
for while they are paying so much respect
to the aged they really appear to those per-
sons angelic, and give us a foretaste of
heaven, and why this great demonstration,
on an occasion like this?
	Is it not to show that they have not for-
gotten the time, when their parents
welcomed them to earth? And Oh! how
tenderly and faithfully they watched and
cared for those tender plants, hoping they
might become plants of renown in our 
Father’s Kingdom. And, now it is well
that this love should be given in return to
parents and grand-parents not only our own
but all the aged as well whose love has
been, and still is, sacred, forming so many
silken ties. I feel that these are days of
inspiration, and those persons, or that one
who invented, or proposed this arrangement
was surely inspired by the good spirit to do
so.
	How refreshing it is to those who are on
the down hill side of life to meet old friends
on an occasion like this: also our young
friends who make the time so joyful. And
since love is a prominent attribute of the
Deity should it not be cherished toward
worthy objects, and where shall they be
found if not those dear ones who have been
climbing the rugged steep of life for so
many years earnestly seeking for improve-
ment in all the duties of life, and with an
earnest zeal, we find it brings its own re-
ward now when they are aged and infirm.
St. Paul once said “Give honor to whom
honor is due, love to whom love and fear to
whom fear.” 
	And is this the motive which prompts
our youth today. Oh yes, you can see it in
the expression of the eye and every feature
of the face, while they are passing delicate
refreshments, also in their song of welcome
to the aged ones, and how do the aged feel
at this time? They feel to bless them in
the sincerity of their hearts; tears of grati-

[Column 2]
tude may be seen starting in the eye while
they gaze with love and admiration on the
lovely group who are so devoted to their
aged friends with words of welcome.
	Yesterday being Old Folks’ Day, I
must tell you of another pleasant time we
had in meeting old friends who still remain,
although not all that we met last year, for
each year we find that some few of them
have been called home; their mission on
earth is ended, and they have gone to meet
loved ones who have gone before and no
doubt they have a joyful meeting.
	This time the Excursion met at Saltair, a
lovely watering place on the border of the
Lake. Here we arrived about 10 o’clock,
that is the aged ones, and a goodly number
it was: for each year a few more have
reached the age of seventy which keeps up
our number and much more, but all are
welcomed by the Committee as well as their
friends.
	Cars were coming and going all day
bringing friends of the aged people, we
were made happy in seeing the First
Presidency and hearing them address the
people.
	President Woodruff spoke of the changes
which have taken place in this valley since
our arrival. He asked “Did we ever ex-
pect to see cars running by Electricity or
see such a structure as this at Saltair?” His
remarks were interesting and his voice
strong and clear although he is eighty-seven
years of age.
	We have twenty-three Wards in this City
and each ward is supposed to set a table of
their own, which would accomodate the
aged of their ward and the friends who
came from other settlements. The tables
seemed well provided with eatables cooked
at home, only hot tea and coffee, besides
lemonade and nice fruit and flowers made
the table complete, while the salt air gave
us a good appetite, and the cooking was
generously praised.
	At 4 o’clock another large company
came in, and as the cars left, took as many
home to the city: I myself being one of the
number. We arrived home in good season
well satisfied with the day’s amusement,
and I fancy that I was strengthened and
greatly benefited by my trip with other of
my aged friends, I also felt to offer up an
earnest prayer for all who felt to contribute
to this day’s entertainment, that the measure
they mete out may be meted out to them
again four fold, and they may possess the
same happy spirit that we felt that day.
	With Sincere Respect,
						M. E. K.


