		BY W. H. WILKINS.
	“I MYSELF,” said the Psalmist, “have
seen the ungodly in great power: and
flourishing like a green bay tree.” The
Psalmist said that a long time ago; probably
a good many people said the same thing
before him; certainly a good many have
echoed it since. If it were ever true at all,
it is true of our day and generation. In
the circumstances of modern life the
spectacle of the wicked flourishing and the
good going to the wall is one of almost
every-day occurrence. It is an object-les-
son, though it is not one which squares
with bread-and-butter views of life, or the
axioms of copybook morality. It is the
truth, though we may blink at it. As St.
Jerome once put it, since offences must
come of the truth, it is better that they
should come from the truth being known
than from the truth being concealed. If
we face facts and sweep aside illusions, we
shall recognize that in the struggle of life
to-day the chances are largely in favor of
those whom the Psalmist called the “un-
godly.”
	Let us look at politics, since here, per-
haps more than anywhere else, we may feel
the pulse of a people. There are certain
notable exceptions. But who are often the
most successful politicians—as the world
counts success? Are they not the men who
are cleverest in office at evading the pledges
which they have given when out, who
burn what they once adored and adore what
once they burned? Are they not those who
astutely trim their sails to the passing
breeze, and who show a nice faculty for
pandering to the prejudices of the hour?
But the men who look above and beyond
all this, who count self as nothing, and
worldly advancement as dross, who do
right because it is right, heedless of censure
and fearless of consequence—such men
die as Gordon died, alone, deserted, betrayed
or as Hildebraud died, who cried on his
death-bed, “I have loved righteousness and
hated iuiquity, therefore I die in exile.”
Such as these latter are said to be madmen,
enthusiasts, fanatics, unpractical people,
and for those others is reserved the praise,
and the power, and the glory. With this
code of political morals there is also a new
nomenclature. If a man lie he is said to
be diplomatic, if he trick he is a politician,
if he swallow his pledges wholesale he is a
true statesman, if he commit a shameless
volte-face he recognizes the "onward march
of the forces of the future.” The “flow-
ing tide” is with him.
	But politics can by no means claim a
monopoly on the Green Bay Tree. Its
branches also shelter Society—with a big
S—bien entendu. Here more than any-
where else the false god Mammon is bowed
down to and worshipped. Dives holds
court and his halls are thronged. What
matter if vulgarity and vice jostle one
another in his ante-chambers, and mean-

[Column 2]
ness and avarice meet at his gates? What
matter it if his wealth be amassed by the
“sweating” of his industrial slaves? He
has amassed it, that is enough. Society
will flock to his parties, eat his dinners,
drink his champagne, and will go away and
abuse him, most probably But it will
abuse him behind his back; to his face it
will fawn upon him and everything that is
his. In the marriage mart of modern
Babylon, Dives old or young may mate with
the fairest and most patrician of the land.
It matters nothing if he be shallow-brained,
vicious, unprincipled, unwholesome in body
and mind—he is Dives, that is enough.
Parents vie with one another to secure him
for their daughters, and the daughters—
the pity of it!—eagerly second their efforts.
Here again we find the same objection to
calling things by their right names. A
mother sells her daughter in loveless mar-
riage for wealth or position, or the daughter
sells herself, and it is called “making a
good match.” The Church blesses, and
the world approves. The woman in the
street sells herself for half-a-crown that she
or her children may not starve. But she is
spurned, shunned, a Pariah, a vile thing fit
only to be cast out and trodden under foot
of men! Her very existence is ignored by
the Society which is responsible for her
creation. Yet may it not be that in the
eyes of Him from Whom no secrets are hid
this one is justified rather than the other?
	In commercial life the Green Bay Tree
flourishes exceedingly. It is admitted that
if a man would live and avoid bankruptcy
he must do as others do. In other words
he must “Cheat and be cheated”—practice
a species of commercial cannibalism. If
one tells the same lie very often, by a
curious process of self delusion one at last
almost gets to believe that it is the truth.
Even so in the modern mart certain dis-
honest practices have been practised so
long that, by prescription, they have al-
most come to be considered honest.
Adulteration of goods, false values, bribes,
breaches of trust—these things, not called
by these names perhaps, are done under the
shadow of the green tree. In the dry, the
plucking of pigeons, false and misleading
prospectuses, cooked balance-sheets, bubble
companies, go merrily on. Company pro-
moters, “financial agents,” and such like
vermin, fatten and flourish; their dupes and
victims starve. Men of light and leading,
naked and unashamed, give their name to
some fraudulent scheme to serve as decoys
to the widow and the orphan. These emi-
nent ones astutely sell their shares before
the crash comes, but the widow and the
orphan are ruined. What of it? The
starving man who steals a roll from a
baker’s shop is punished with the utmost
rigor of the law, but such men as these,
who devour widows’ houses and for pre-
tence make long prayers, go scot free, and
live and die in the odor of sanctity.
	Ex uno disce omnes. The canting
grocer who sings psalms in his little Bethel
and goes home to sand the sugar; the
Society woman who cheerfully confesses in
a fashionable church that she is “a misera-
ble sinner,” and then struts off to the Park
to backbite her neighbors; the honored
head of a household who unctuously be-
gins the day with long-winded family
prayers, and spends the rest of it nagging
the wife of his bosom, bullying his children
and worrying his servants; the titled
capitalist who heads subscription lists for
promoting the Gospel among the foreign


