EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE regret being compelled to leave over
matter already set for the paper but it is
unavoidable. An Ovation to Mrs. Elmina
S. Taylor (though we publish the poem
read on the occasion,) and Countess
Wachtmeister, A Trip through Oneida
Stake and Susan B. Anthony’s Letter to
the Women of Utah, will appear in the
next number.
	THOSE interested in the EXPONENT are
reminded that this is the time for yearly
payment of subscription, and it is need-
less to add that money is necessary to main-
tain a newspaper. The actual need of a
woman’s paper in which to represent the
views, opinions and aims of the women of
a growing community like that of Utah,
aside from womens’ organizations which
really must have an organ for keeping in
touch with each other, should prompt every
one who has the public welfare, at heart, to
subscribe for the paper published in their
own interest.

MRS. PRISCILLA JENNINGS is about
opening a sewing class for young girls in a
cottage on her private grounds, and she
will in person superintend the affair, as-
sisted by one or two other ladies, who have
volunteered their services. It is purely a
charitable undertaking on her part, though
she is hopeful it may put those who become
efficient with the needle,in the way of earn-
ing money, and qualify them for positions
where they can earn an honorable livlihood.
Of course Mrs. Jennings can only take a
limited number under her care, but there
are other ladies who might “go and do
likewise.”

THERE was a very pleasant family
gathering at the old homestead of Brother
and Sister Edward Stevenson on Wednes-
day afternoon and evening July 12th. The
company was mostly the Stevensons,
Clarks, Wilcoxs and Burtons, and a very 
happy crowd they seemed to be. There
were a few old friends not exactly relatives,
the Hornes and Sisters B. W. Smith, S.
M. Kimball, E. B. Wells and one or two
more. The guests did ample justice to the
elaborate dinner, and the conversation was
a genuine feast in itself. There was some
excellent music by members of the family,
and a fair showing of babies; among them
a pair of twins exceptionally fine children.
Brother Stevenson has been a great traveler
and always has interesting reminiscences to
relate of the early days, as well as of his
journeyings in other lands. Such social
gatherings promote good feeling among
friends and leave pleasant memories for
days to come.

ON Saturday afternoon, June 16th ult a
company of ladies met at the residence of
Sister Julia C. Howe in honor of her birth-
day anniversary which occurred on the 17th,
and being Sunday the previous day was
chosen for the visit. The same day was,
also the anniversary of the birthday of
Sister Maria W. Wilcox, therefore it was a
sort of double celebration. It was the
season of roses, and the beautiful parlor of
Sister Howe’s lovely home was like a


veritable bower of beauty and fragrance.
There were about thirty guests, and con-
versation was general until after tea, when
a request was made by the hostess that
Sister Horne act as chairman, and the
sisters express their feelings and sentiments,
as she wished to hear from all present. A
hymn was sung, a prayer offered, and short
addresses were made by almost every one
in the room. All who spoke expressed
their love for Slsters Howe and Wilcox and
their appreciation of their noble work in
the interest of the several organizations of
which they were both earnest and active
members. It was a day long to be re-
membered for the sweet spirit of love and
good will that flowed from heart to heart.
To both of these dear sisters the EXPONENT
extends sincere congratulations for many
happy returns of the day.


