who was very tender and kind, thinking
him overworked, but knowing nothing of
the difficulty, for she was one who would
not listen to slander and therefore she sel-
dom heard the gossip of evil tongues.
	Mrs. Bland kept her promise and had
sent over to the cottage goodly supplies to
be disbursed by John and Patience Austin,
who knew well the needy, and many were
the messages of gratitude, and prayers for
the generous and charitable widow, sent by
these good people. Mrs. Bland sent Josiah
(her faithful butler) to inquire after Mr.
Barrington and learning he was indisposed
requested Mrs. Austin to come over with
him as soon as he was well ecough. The
following Sabbath he was to preach in an
outlying district, so it was several days be-
fore he could call upon Mrs. Bland, and he
was reluctant to go then even though she
had sent for him.
	He was melancholy and ill at ease, he
had no friend on whom he could rely for
comfort and advice, and somehow it seemed
right and proper that he should trust Mrs.
Bland. When he did call she was aston-
shed at the change in his appearance, jmd
urged him to see a physician he replied
that he was in need of sympathy, that his
situation was very trying, and that since
the Doctor’s death and her bereavement he
had lost his sole confident; in a moment he
felt how childish of him to despond, since
Mrs. Bland whose load was heavy indeed
had so much to bear, and he said, “O, Mrs.
Bland forgive my weakness, you are so
brave and have so much to endure, but the
children take up your mind, while I have
really no one to share my sorrow, no one to
advise me and there are many perplexities
even in my profession.”
	"Have you no sister or brother, no near
relative no ties of kindred?"
	"Alas! no, I am an orphan, alone in the
world, I know nothing of my family, I was
educated by my uncle whom I never saw,
though he was most generous in supplying
me with means while I was at school."
	"And where is he now, do you not hear
from him?"
	"Away in foreign parts somewhere, he
was much annoyed when he learned of my
becoming a dissenting minister, he ex-
pected me to take to the Law, or some lit-
erary work, I disappointed him greatly.”
	"It can’t be helped I suppose for you
are really in earnest and most devout, but
surely he will relent some of these days,
and take you back again or come and look
you up in this new land.”
	"But I have never seen him, never! He
does not know me, a most eccentric gentle-
man my tutor told me, quite celebrated,
entirely alone in the world, had been
crossed in love, a romantic story, I sup-
pose, though I never heard it, only from a
tutor I had when quite a boy, who knew
my uncle very well, and was very fond of
talking about him in a desultory way. I

[Column 2]
do not know if he is living or not, his
solicitor in London told me when I em-
barked, that he had gone abroad for an in-
definite period, and might never return
but added you are at liberty to draw upon
me, should you be unable to support your-
self in the new world to which you are
going.”
	This and much more was said and Mr.
Barrington went away in better spirits,
though he had not alluded to the real cause
of his depression.
	He continued to labor among the people, 
and everything settled down quietly again;
for he bore himself with such heroic dignity
that his revilers were ashamed of their evil
suspicions, and were more deferential than
before. In fact his sermons were more
brilliant and his manner more impressive,
and his congregations gradually increased
in numbers and in religious fervor.
	Time passed on and the children grew
more interesting but required more care.
Mrs. Bland watched over them faithfully,
as though they were all her own Now
and then Maitland would write, but never
satisfactorily, sometimes he would say he
was coming, and again that he should come
for the children. Mrs. Bland felt how ter-
rible it would be to give them into his keep-
ing and yet she knew it must be sooner or
later, hoping against hope, that she might
be permitted to keep Anna.
	At last Lord Walton came with his
patrician mother; his coming heralded be-
forehand and the house made ready; ren-
ovated thoroughly, and many new
luxuries provided. Mrs. Bland dreaded
the ordeal, she had scarcely appeared in
society since her husband’s death; and she
knew Lady Walton would go over all the 
details of both bereavements: and she was
not disappointed for the first day of her in-
stallment she sent for Mrs. Bland to ar-
range matters with her, and plied her with
innumerable questions. Mrs. Bland re-
plied mostly in monosyllables, and never
once referred to Lady Walton’s own affairs
of which she had heard from the floating
rumors more than from Maitland, who
after leaving America had said little about
his mother; in fact it was not known
whether she was still an Italian Countess,
or had resumed her own name. Mrs. Bland
always addressed her by her former title.
	After a few days Lady Walton sent for
the children; Maitland had been with them
most of the time, and seemed very proud
of them especially of Edward. Lady 
Walton was quite overcome when the
children were brought to her, and Maitland
could not understand it, but Jane Bland
knew how like the boy was to her uncle
Edward, and this woman of fashion, this
cold, imperious lady now long past her
youth, had not been able during all these
years to crush out her first love. "How
like Anna the baby is?” she said to Mrs.
Bland, not mentioning the boy.
	The few months that Lady Walton
stayed in America were full of excitement
both in doors and out for the hostilities of
the Indians kept the settlers in terrible sus-
pense, and Lady Walton was very timid;


