[Column 1]
heathen with money rack-rented from the
home-made heathen, who huddle in his
slum-dwellings a mile or two, may be, from
his beloved Exeter Hall;—these and many
more belong to the same goodly company.
These all wax fat and kick, as Jehushrun
did of old. “Lo, these are the ungodly,
these prosper in the world, and these have
riches in possession.”
	Yet they are not ungodly as the world
counts ungodliness, neither are they dis-
honest as the world judges dishonesty. 
They have not placed themselves without
the pale of Society; they have not come
within the lash of the law, they have not 
broken the greatest commandment of all:
‘‘Thou shall not be found out.”
	On the contrary they have succeeded.
They have large balances at their bankers
and when one has that one has all the
virtues. The world worships success, and 
is indifferent to the means by which it is
obtained. But it metes out terribly hard
measure to failure. And yet—surely
things are so that the chances are largely in
favor of good failing. The poor, honest
man who pays his just dues, defrauds no
one, helps others, what chance has he in the
race for gold? He starts handicapped by
scruples, weighed down by a conscience. 
Ten to one, from being poor he becomes
poorer, and dies in want. And then of
course he has no virtues. He cannot be
righteous since he is begging his bread.
His misfortunes are his own fault, he has
brought them on himself. He has made
his bed,so must he lie. The snug Pharisee
passes him by on the other side, and
sententiously remarks that, “The way of
transgressors is hard.”
	Of course to those who believe in the
eternal justice of things—these things mat-
ter not. They are merely ‘‘temporal
troubles” which pass and fade away. As
Paley complacently argues, the future
system of rewards and punishments will
make all things equal. But not all of us
have the “blessed assurance” of Paley.
The good virtuous ones, those who lead
honest, sober and cleanly lives, may per-
haps be excused an occasional spasm of
impatience that the Mills should grind so
slowly. In the meantime, there is a ter-
rible temptation to go and do likewise.
They may remember that, after all, there
is high sanction for the maxim to make
friends of the Mammon of Unrighteousness
and they may be mindful also that the
children of this world are in their genera-
tion wiser than the children of light.
	Yet surely there is a more excellent way
for the children of light than this. They
may turn the other side of the shield, and
in the reflex thereof they will see some-
thing of the brightness which clings around
“whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever
things are lovely, whatsoever things are of
good report.” They will see also that
these people and these conditions are the
outcome of the two factors which rule all
our lives, heredity and environment, and
this thought will make them very pitiful.
If they be true children of light they will
not stop at pity, but will set to work to re-
move the causes which have made such a 
state of things possible. Their labor will 
not be in vain, for in spite of much to dis-
courage, there is much to bid them hope.
If man be not wholly good, neither is he
wholly bad. Life is not all leaden-hued.
In the windows of a squalid East-end slum
may sometimes be seen, in spite of grime
and fog and smuts, bright-hued flowers,

[Cloumn 2]
tended by loving hands, little bits of color
in the all-pervading gloom. So too in the
throng of dull, unlovely lives, some pure
unselfish souls may be found, happy, and
diffusing their happiness around them.
The children of light must gather these into
their union—a union which shall link to-
gether all those that love in the service of
all those that suffer, a union of all those
whose religion is not dogma but deeds.
One will work in one way, one in another,
but each will strive to make his little cor-
ner of God’s earth something better than
he found it. In this way alone will the axe
be laid at the root of the Green Bay Tree,
and the place where it now flonrishes will
know it no more.—The Humanitarian.


