SALTAIR.
A FAMOUS PLEASURE RESORT.
THIS year Saltair has carried off the
palm of all the numerous resorts and re-
treats, for rest, recreation and enjoyment.
It has had its praises sounded loud and
long, by tourists, strangers, and visitors; in
song, in poetry, in prose, and it has been
done up in all styles of pictures and photo-
graphs, and yet no one has been able so far
to create for the imagination a picture as
gloriously grand as Saltair and the Lake
itself at sunset.
Old Folks day has been a great day for the
last nineteen years but the ninth of July at
Saltair this year, was the climax of old
folks celebrations. There were more old
people and more young people to wait on
them, and the place was such a suprise to
them, and to one looking on: the great
variety of nationalities and the wonderful
dissimilarity in face and expression as well
as in dress, it was a study from life not
soon to be forgotten.
The Old Folks Choir and Brother God-
dard “did themselves proud” with their
singing, and the Committee were untiring
ing in their efforts to see that all these
fourteen hundred had a good time.
Brother C. R. Savage was missed however
from the jolly crowd, but there were lots of
Bishops and the good sisters of the Relief
Society, and the tables were loaded with
everything good to eat.
President Woodruff, the veteran pioneer,
spoke to the assembly, also Presidents
George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith,
but unfortunately only those nearest the
platform could hear what was said, but felt
sure it was all true and good.
The Bicycle drill was a genuine amuse-
ment, and every body enjoyed it immensely,
judging from the vociferous applause.
There were a great many red ribbon
badges indicating seventy years, and quite
a number of blue ones marking the four
score, and a few, five I believe, white ones
for four score and two. Father Tucker, for
many years Heber C. Kimball’s gardener,
was the oldest man present, and Sarah Free,
ninety four, the oldest woman. The meet-
ing and greeting of these old people is one
of the happy features of the gathering. It
is so kindly, so intensely real, and so es-
sentially different to the ordinary everyday
handshaking and bowing of the people who
are pursuing ordinary business pursuits and
occupations. In no other place in the

[Column 2]
world that we know of has this honored
custom obtained, of giving the old peoplo of
all classes, races and conditions, a general
holiday each year, except in our own dear
Utah. Long may it continue, and the
young people learn the valuable lesson of
true respect and veneration for the aged
whose pleasures are few, and whose days
often seem wearisome and cheerless as time
rolls on in the descent of life.

The Home Industry Association had an
excursion to Saltair on the 12th, and
drew a large crowd. The inducements
were somewhat suggestive and quite uni-
que, as there was to be a handsome chair
for the woman longest resident in the val-
ley, and a handsome lady’s cape for the
woman who had been longest engaged in
philanthropic work, and so on and so on.
Then there was to be quite a musical pro-
gram, recitation and speeches, and al-
together the affair promised a great deal
beforehand in the way of entertainment,
and the people wore not disappointed in
this respect.
The young, the gay and the beautiful
were there assembled, the aged matrons
and stalwart veterans, and the day was fine
for bathing and the music inspiring to
dancers. However first came the program,
Mrs. W. S. McCornick, President of the
Home Industry Association, presided, and
the band gave a charming musical selection.
B. F. Grant Esq. made the opening address
giving the object and aims of the Associa-
tion, he was loudly applauded.
The Harmony Club, all excellent male
voices gave a choice vocal selection in good
voice and pleasing style, the Sicilian ten
lovely girls in white, sang Longfellow’s
poem, “Life is real, life is earnest,” in their
sweetest way, and were followed by Mrs.
Boyden an accomplished elocutionist, who
recited, “How Salvator Won The Race,”
the audience called for an encore, and she
gave a pretty love tale. Brief addresses
were made on the subject of home indus-
tries by Mrs. E. B. Wells, Doctor E. B.
Ferguson and the Reverend Dr. Iliff, then
came the distribution of the articles
mentioned. The chair was awarded to
Sister Louisa Norris Decker, the cape to
Sister M. Isabella Horne, and the three
pairs of suspenders to Brother George B.
Wallace, who was the oldest resident in
the valley as there were no pioneers
present, Brother Wallace and Sister Decker
who secured the chair came in September
1847—just a few weeks after the pioneers.

THE largest number of people gathered
at Saltair this year so far, was at the re-
union or celebration of the Y. M. and Y.
L. M. I. A., July 13th. The crowd was
too great to admit of much enjoyment ex-
cept to those who delight in bathing and
dancing. There was a regular program
and prizes were given for excellence in
music and composition but there were not
as many competitors as there should have
been to make it interesting, or to bring out
the talent of the young people, as such op-
portunities should. Financially the affair
was a great success, and to those who were
directly interested in making it profitable as
well as enjoyable, this fact must be an in-
tense satisfaction. Certainly there is need
of means to further the interests of any
organization and one so eminently calculated
to do great good as the Mutual Improve-
ment Associations should be sustained by
all legitimate methods so far as practicable.

[Column 3]
Sister Mary A. Freeze and her Counselors
and Aids, as also the Presidency of the
Young Men’s Associations, may be con-
gratulated on the outcome of their under-
taking.


