W. S. A.—S. L. CO.
	VERY enjoyable Parlor Meetings in the
interest of suffrage have been held, June
5th, at Mrs. Lucy B. Young’s, at which
speeches were made by ladies’ present.
Music and singing by Miss Mabel Young.
	July 3rd, at Mrs. Adella W. Eardley’s, Dr.
Ferguson, Dr. Barney and other ladies
made short addresses. Singing by Misses
Ball, Eardley and Smith, also Mandolin
Solo by Vilate Eardley.

	MINUTES of regular meeting held July,
17th in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Hall, second Vice President Elizabeth
M. Price in the chair. Sang, “Come
away.” Prayer Maria Holt. Sang, “Oh
ye fair ones.” Roll called, minutes for
July read and approved. Speech from
President Elizabeth MacFarlane, referred
to the parlor meetings held, much good
might be accomplished this way, if women
would study to talk and not be afraid of the
mistakes they made, we should have more
successful women speakers, read from the
EXPONENT a piece entitled “Woman’s
Sphere,” men have become great who have
taken counsel from their wives. C. C. R.
Wells, thought the points made good, but
many men she knew thought differently and
even if they knew their wives to be right
would not acknowledge it. Some of the
very brightest women are the busiest, all
in the family should be called upon to help,
not expect the mother to drudge for all, in
this way labor is made light and much
more can be accomplished; if women voted
men wouid have to be more careful in
their actions, because women will not vote
for impure men. Maria Holt thought a
mother’s influence over her sons could be
felt in many ways, “teach your sons what
is right, true, and virtuous, then if they
turn away you will not be accountable, did
not believe in women being made house-
hold drudges, but sometimes circumstances


oome along over which no man has con-
trol, then a true woman would be willing
to stand by her husband and save all the
expense she could. Barbara Folsom had
voted and hoped to vote again, thought
she would know more about it then.
Frances Smith was in sympathy with this
movement, had always felt we should vote
again, was glad that we were to become a
state, could not see how we could fulfil our
destiny unless we did.
   President MacFarlane thought it had
educated a number of us having the fran-
chise taken from us. Mary P. Silver read
a piece entitled “Freedom was Queen,” re-
ferred to Y. L. Meeting she had attended,
thought our Young Ladies were getting
ready to fill the places of the older ones.
Vice President E. M. Price related an
amusing incident in regard to voting, the
only time she missed was when she had a
severe headache and felt too sick to go, but
her husband told her she must go, of course,
that decided her that she would stay at
home, and she did. Adjourned till August.
