[Column 1]
peace and charity. Said the day is not far
distant when you will wish to hear my
voice, but will not. A sister at the close of
the meeting, said, ‘Brother Joseph, why
did you hurt our feelings?’ All present
felt a depression, the very elements
mourned. A dreadful gloom was felt for
days before the Martyrdom.” Made other
interesting remarks.
	Brother Binder spoke a short time giving
further instructions regarding the excursion
of the Old Folks; thought all should be in-
terested in aiding in so good a cause. “We
have had good times on previous occasions.
There is nothing should give us more
pleasure, than making the aged happy in
their declining years.”
	Sister Brown spoke a short time on the
same subject. “I knew when I went into
the waters of Baptism that Joseph was a
Prophet of God, have never had a doubt to
this day.” Related a dream, where she
was on the water, the ship on fire, of try-
ing to have faith to walk on the water.
“I desire to live so that my life will be ac-
ceptable in the sight of God,I ask the same
blessing on all my Sisters.”
	Sister Sarah Phelps related her experience
on the day of the assassination. Was
working in the garden, when something
like a panorama passed before her, could
see the prison and the soldiers, saw Brother
Hyrum fall, cried out ‘‘they have shot
him,” being asked “who” answered “I
dont know.” “Who did it look like.”
“I answered, ‘like the picture of Brother
Joseph,’ up to this time I had never seen
him.” Closed her remarks by exhorting
the Sisters to faithfulness.
	Another Sister spoke of the Prophet as a
mighty man of God. The Savior had his
blood spilled for our sins. Our loved
Prophet sealed his testimony with his blood.
I feel to say “God Bless the aged, they
have borne much for the Gospel, I take 
great comfort in reading the book called,
“Women of Mormondom.” Think of the
severe trials they have passed through. I
have trials but I praise God continually for
his goodness, in giving me a knowlege
that this is the Church and Kingdom of
God.”
	Sister Alder, "I have felt the Martyrdom
more than ever before. I feel that all fain
would have kept the Prophet with us but
he could not be spared to us. I feel that I
know him, although I never saw him, it is
for us to be faithful, and testify of the
Savior, and of Joseph as a Prophet; and
they will surely testify to the Lord of us.
The question will be asked ‘What work
have you done?’ I have too much to live
for to neglect my duties here. We know
our loved ones who are gone, are safe. We
must prepare to meet them.”
	Sang “Hail! to the Prophet” etc.
	Counselor Stevenson spoke of the pleasant
time the Temple workers had enjoyed at
Brigham City. “The instructions we re-
ceived were treasures, Brother Woodruff
spoke on the sign of the times. Testified
that the Angel had gone forth to pour out
the vial of his wrath on the nations of the
earth. Let us be true Saints, doing to
others as we would be done by, having
charity, love and good will for all.”
	Sister M E. Kimball gave a brief sketch
of her experience with the Saints in
Nauvoo, of her admiration of the life of the
prophet. The many trials she had passed
through for the Gospel, with it all there had
never arisen a doubt in her mind in regard
to the truth of this Latter-day work.

[Column 2]
President Horne made some closing re-
marks, spoke of the necessity of living
near the Lord, of being faithful to all duties
particularly to mothers to impress upon the
minds of their children the principles of the
Gospel. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
	Sang, “Weep! Weep! not for me,”
benediction by Brother Andrew Jenson.

