[Column 1]
she had no affiliation with the Puritans, she
disliked all dissenters, and would not listen
to a word in their favor even from Mrs.
Bland to whom she owed a heavy debt of
gratitude, which at times, when in a kindly
mood, she would acknowledge. It was
easy for one as intuitive as Mrs. Bland to
see that Lady Walton had no intention of
remaining long in the Colonies, and she
felt it her duty to speak of the children.
	On one occasion when her ladyship was
alluding to the various changes that had
transpired in the last few years, Mrs. Bland
said, “And my dear Lady Walton what
will the next few years bring about, have
you any definite plans for yourself or the
children?”
	“Not fully matured we shall have a tutor at
the Hall for Edward and I shall keep Anna
with me for the present, taking with me
the faithful old nurse, we cannot stay here,
Maitland is very unhappy, he lingers
around Anna’s grave until I fear he will
unsettle his mind.”
	All this was uttered as it were in a breath
and Jane Bland was taken by surprise;
especially at the idea of Maitland’s grief,
which no one else had discovered; she felt
grieved that Lady Walton had decided on
taking Anna away, and scarcely knew how
to approach the subject. Finally she took
courage and spoke out, “Lady Walton do
you not think that it would be better to
leave baby with me, you cannot be always
with her, your society obligations will
hamper you, and she is so frail and delicate
just like a dainty, white lily, and I am sure
Anna would rather her little girl should
be brought up secluded, apart from the
world of fashion and style.”
	“I too am tired of all that I once took
delight in, my recent troubles have been so
humiliating I cannot tell you,” (and she
burst into tears) meanwhile Jane Bland
waited. ‘‘I have been driven to despera-
tion almost, I shall live in seclusion at
Walton Hall, and Anna's children will
have the opportunity of becoming familiar
at the old castle. I suppose you are still
interested in that, must be, and you need
have no fears that I shall mingle in society,
it would frown upon me now; but cousin
Jane what do you know of Clair Hilliard
and Rob Harrison?”
	“Nothing whatever, we have never
heard since Anna’s illness and death,
scarcely since our arrival here,” “but who
looks after the Castle?” interrogated Mrs.
Bland anxious to waive the subject broached
by Lady Walton.
	“O, the same faithful old people, every-
thing is well kept I have been over several
times, the steward has allowed me full
liberty to go through the house and grounds
whenever I please, and it has been a mel-
ancholy satisfaction. I can imagine all the
past, summoning in fancy the very people
who banqueted there in the olden time.”
	“If you wish to be so secluded why not
stay here, at least for some time?”
	“Maitland’s interests are at stake, he is
popular with the people in the county, and
it is for his sake I try to keep up, other-
wise I would retire altogether, go to some
foreign land, (a civilized country however)
not where one’s life is in jeopardy every hour
as it is here; besides Maitland will marry
again and who is there here, for him to
choose from? I hope he will secure a wife
who will help him to rise in the world, I
want he should have a place of distinction
if his mother has lost all.”
	This, and much more in the same strain,

[Column 2]
was the wail of an ambitious woman of
fashion who had been the reigning belle for
more than one London season.
	“You have not lost in my opinion, but
gained a wonderful experience even if it
has been dearly bought. You are much
richer now for the severe ordeals through
which you have past, and you have still
great advantages and a wide opportunity
for doing good. These precious children
entrusted to your care, need a wise example
as well as judicious training, a sacred trust
indeed, and heaven grant you will never
grow weary, but if at any time you need
me I shall always be only too willing to
render what help is possible to Anna’s lit-
tle ones.”
	This was their last conversation on the
subject, soon after Lady Walton departed
hurriedly, the mansion was shut up for the
time being and Maitland bade farewell to
Mrs. Bland, who wept as she had never
