	PHILADELPHIA, PENN., Aug, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In receipt of your little paper, I can truly
say that I am pleased with it,—further I
am more than pleased. I find it a noble
effort in behalf of woman's advancement,
and it well deserves to take its place side
by side, with the yet few, but increasing,
earnest and effective exponents of the new
Evangel of this nineteenth century. In
the name of my sisters in the States, en-
gaged in this grand cause so dear to us all,
I send greetings and best wishes, for the
success of your worthy enterprise. It is
no small matter to keep a paper in existence
after it is born, and the effort to nurse it up
into the strong, healthful, potent life de-
sired for it, calls forth all the energy, perse-
verance and fertility of brain, in those who
have imposed upon themselves the noble
task.
	I am glad to have read the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, and am sorry not to have made an
earlier acquaintance with it. I am this
glad, and this sorry, for more reasons than
one,—the one particular reason being, that,
I have received light upon a subject in re-
gard to which, I was not only in the dark,
but in regard to which myself in common

[Column 2]

with the people generally in the States,
have been, as I now believe, deceived,—
that is, as to the condition of the women of
Utah, as woman and as citizen. After hav-
ing read the two articles in your July 15th
number "The Elective Franchise in Utah,"
and "Work for Women," on went my
thinking cap, and I assure you, I have come
frm under this utile piece of brain-gear
somewhat wiser than when I donned it. It
is the truth, and I am going to make a clean
breast of it, for there is no shame in being
misled, only in staying so in the face of
evidence, that the women of the States
have jumped at very unjust conclusions in
regard to their sisters in Utah. Upon a
"sealed book no one is able to pass judg-
ment" and certainly no one has a right in
public, where opinion is influenced, to com-
ment upon a subject in regard to which
they are ignorant. Who have been our
teachers I cannot say, but I confess that
the women here, in counting our victories
and in summing up the advance in re-
spect to the franchise of our sex, while
considering Wyoming as the first trophy
taken in the grand contest for the right, do
not look upon women suffrage in Utah as
worth a fillip. In fact we never speak of it
as we do of the first as a government for, of
and by the people, and we only and silently
once in awhile think of it as a government
wherein man is the tyrant and woman the
submissively tyrannized over—that each
man has not merely his own vote, but just
as many votes as he owns wives, and that
each woman is either an oriental doll or a
domestic drudge, with neither impulse nor
impetus towards an individualized exist-
ence, nor any other ambition than that of
pleasing her lord and rightful owner. In
short, that women are "driven like a flock
of sheep at the will of the driver."
	I have given you frankly an expose of
the opinion in the States of the position of
the women of Utah. May your able little
EXPONENT do the work of disproving what
I now truly believe to be erroneous in the
highest degree, and if well circulated, I
am confident that it has the power to do so.
	The question of woman's political status
is the first question—this once decided, her
other interests will regulate themseles;
and upon this question, should the women,
both of this land and over the seas, meet in
harmony and good faith.
	I hold that we Suffragists in the States
have nothing to do with the religious cou-
ditions, or the social tastes or condition of
our sisters in Utah, nor with those of each
other even, and it is to be regretted that
there are those, who do make it their busi-
ness to mix things up in this way.
	I will mail you samples of the tracts and
envelopes of the Citizen's Suffrage Associa-
tion an organization formed in 72—an off-
shoot of the older association, and the bold-
est, most uncompromising, most democrat-
ic of all—whose one tenet is Suffrage the
inherent right of the citizen of a Republic
—Universal Suffrage, irrespective of sex,
color, caste, creed, condition, the basis of a
true Democracy.
	I have just read your article in "Woman's
Words." Why not endeavor to show what
you are doing in Deseret through one of
our daily or Sunday papers, I am sure the

[Column 3]

would be very happy to publish anything
you might write.
	I shall look forward to the appearance of
your new book "The Women of Mormon-
dom."
	With the kindest wishes I remain your
sister in woman's cause,
