EDITOR EXPONENT:
The Young Ladies’ Association of Nephi
are striving to do what is required of us,
that we may receive the blessings that God
has promised to bestow upon those who
love Him and keep His commandments.
 We meet together every Friday; we edit
a Weekly Journal that is entirely sustained
by the young ladies. Our meetings are not
as well attended as we would like them to
be, but all who do attend enjoy themselves,
and take pleasure in speaking and writing
upon the principles of our holy religion, for
we know that if we obey them they will
save and exalt us in our Father’s kingdom.
We held our second annual meeting on the
28th of June in the Social Hall, which was
decorated for the occasion. We were fa-
vored by a visit from Bishop Grover and
several other brethen, also from some of the
members of the Relief Society. After the
usual exercises had been gone through, our
Journal was read by the editor, after which

the brethren spoke on various interesting
subjects. They said we were improving,
and that our paper was a credit to us. They
spoke very encouragingly, and exhorted us
to continue to improve, that we might be
prepared for the responsibilities that will be
placed upon us if we are faithful in dis-
charging our duties. In the evening the
young ladies gave a social party, which was
satisfactorily managed by them. All
seemed to enjoy themselves. The pro-
ceeds from the party are to be used to buy
books to enlarge our library, for we are anx-
ious to procure good books that we may
improve our minds.
 On the 9th of July a special meeting was
called for our Association. President John
W. Young, Elder George Q. Cannon and
several of the local brethren were present.
 They spoke upon Plural Marriage and
the Word of Wisdom, and advised us to be
neat and clean, and learn to be good house-
keepers, and to cultivate a cheerful and
amiable disposition. They spoke of the
bad habits that some of the young men in-
dulge in—drinking liquors, using tobacco,
and taking the name of the Lord in vain.
They wished us to use our influence with
the young men, to try and induce them to
abandon their evil habits and live better
lives. President John W. Young called
upon us to vote that we will not counten-
ance the attentions of those who make it a
practise to get drunk and indulge in evil
practices. We voted that we will do all in
our power for the good of the young men,
and use our utmost influence, and with the
help of God we will remain firm in our
covenant. They gave us much practical
advice, and we realize that if we carry it
our in our daily lives we will be greatly
benefitted. We feel to thank them for
meeting with us, and we hope it will not
be the last time that they will favor us with
a visit.
	Hoping that God will bless all who are
trying to serve him, we remain, 
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		M. E. PICTON, President,
			S. A. HOYT, Secretary.


