JOURNEYING TO SODA SPRINGS.

	We have seen a great deal, and yet not
much, (with the exception of Ogden Cañon,)
until yesterday, that is worth mentioning;
what appeared to me as the most striking
object in Ogden Cañon was a very large
rock; this you encounter shortly after en-
tering the cañon, and it extends on either
side of the river for some two or three
blocks in length, commencing very abrupt-
ly and terminating in a like manner. It is
the largest rock I ever saw, and it reaches
from the base of the mountain to its sum-
mit in an unbroken range. The strata is
very plain, running from the top to the
base, at an angle of about forty-seven and a
half degrees; the strata being discernible
by the earth having been washed out and
leaving in many places a space of four or
six inches between the layer. The wonder
often is why they don't fall on top of one
another in one huge mass. The scenes of
yesterday, however, afforded me more
pleasure than anything heretofore on the
trip. The last two days' travel was through
the tops of the Wasatch mountains, and
the oddest country it is, too. All you can
imagine is that Nature started out with the
intention of making it into valleys and
tablelands, but had left the work half done;
and instead of having beautiful valleys and
deep cañons and deeper streams every
once in a while, it is nothing but a succes-
sion of rolling hills, with small cañons
bursting into view on all sides. These are
very beautiful, of course, when seen from
what seemed to have been originally in-
tended for the summit of a valley, but
which become very monotonous, dreary and
tiresome when you are obliged to ride over
them in a wagon, your head all the while
being in imminent danger of a blow from
the wagon bows when passing over some of
the boulders on the road, which, the same,
are "like unto the sands on the seashore."
Yesterday, however, we passed through a
series of cañons, some very small, but all
very beautiful, in which were many beauti-
ful groves of quaking asps, pines and bal-
sams, the pines being particularly beautiful
for their height and straightness, and so
inviting that it almost seemed a sin to pass
by without enjoying their proffered and
friendly shade. On the higher summits of
some of these cañons we could see for a
distance of about fifty miles, over what
seemed a series of endless hills and hollows,
rendered doubly enchanting by the dis-
tance, and as they reached further and fur-
ther the hills gradually lost their distinct-
ness, and their outlines faded into a valley
of the greenest and loveliest verdure—the
pine trees and brush in the long reaches
having diminished to the height of grass.
Towards the close of yesterday's journey,
and at the head of Bear Lake cañon, we
beheld two or three large groves of with-
ered pines, apparently not blasted by light-
ning or destroyed by fire, there being no
black or charred appearance about them; a
color between a green and a white, with an
occasional tint caused by a peculiar shadow
or ray of sunlight, pervaded the whole, and
as all the branches remained as in life, with
the bark removed, it formed a very beauti-
ful and impressive spectacle, the trees and
branches being so thick and standing out in
such bold relief, that one almost fancied it
to be a spectre grove. Some of the hills
around here are very peculiar, many being
entirely bare, with the exception of a stripe
of green trees running down the side as
though laid there by artificial means, these

[Column 2]

being rendered more strange and lovely by
that tint on some of the leaves which al-
ways betokens Autumn. Among other
things which struck me as being rather
strange and somewhat beautiful was a scene
which Joe and I had the good fortune to
behold the day before yesterday. We had
climbed to a considerable height in search
of game, and in stopping to rest, happened
to look towards these low rolling hills,
over which at that moment were passing a
number of small clouds, a sufficient distance
apart to admit of considerable sunshine,
and we sat and watched these shadows fly,
far, far over the hills, as though chasing
the sunshine, and then the sunshine wonld
follow as though in pursuit of the clouds.
This scene would have given one a good
start towards sad meditation, and might
have offered an appropriate comparison to
life, had one but been in a mood to give
way to the feeling which involuntarily
crept upon the soul.

