PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG.

Sweet sleep, sweet rest, enwrap his mortal clay,
The soul now freed—breathes in an ampler day
And we but twine the cypress-wreath in vain,
For our great loss, is his eternal gain.

	The beloved Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, so
dear to the heart of every true Latter-day
Saint, this great, good and wise man has left
this mortal sphere, and gone to join the pro-
phet Joseph and others behind the veil, who
have been in times past associated with him
in establishing the kingdom of God on the
earth in this last dispensation. The announce-
ment of his death will cast a shadow of grief
over the whole Territory of Utah. There is,
perhaps, no man in the world so greatly and
truly beloved, and none whose loss will be
more deeply felt than President Brigham
Young. He departed this life at one minute
past four o'clock, p. m., on Wednesday, Aug.
29,surrounded by his wives, children and friends
whom he had ever so tenderly loved and cher-
ished. Words are weak to express the esteem
and honor in which he was held by this peo-
ple. Thousands and tens of thousands will
mourn for him with sincere love and grief. In
the fullest sense of the word he was a father
to the Latter-day Saints, and his memory can
never be effaced from their hearts. It is writ-
ten there in characters imperishable. He was
a friend to all men and women who were hon-
est and true, of whatever nation or creed, and
the benefactor of all, who would be guided by
his wise and judicious counsel and precept.
	Undoubtedly he was one of the greatest men
that ever tabernacled in the flesh. His work
has been a magnificent one, and the record of
his life so full of great and good works is writ-
ten indelibly in unmistakable characters
throughout the length and breadth of Utah, a
living monument forever to the name of BRIG-
HAM YOUNG.
	Foremost among the many strong points in
the character of this illustrious man were those
inestimable, genial, social and affectional
qualities of heart that attract and draw out the
warmest senitments of attachment in the fam-
ily and social circles.
	President Young was an indefatigable and
earnest worker for improvement and progres-
sion; a man of strong personal influence and
spiritual strength, adapted by nature and soul
for all the exigencies and necessities of the
work which devolved upon him as the success-
or of Joseph Smith.
	The people of this entire Territory and of the 
church and kingdom of God throughout the
world, will mourn his loss sincerely, remem-
bering his many and wise instructions, and
cherishing in their inmost hearts the most sa-
cred remembrances of him, not only as their

[Column 2]

pioneer leader, but as their brother and friend,
and a man of God.
	As husband, father, brother and friend his
record has few, if any parallels.
	As a great leader, diplomatist, and statesman
he lives immortalized in the world's history;
and the principles and opinions he held and
taught in regard to organization and co-oper-
ation were more perfect in theory than any
ever introduced; and if systematically carried
out on the broad and solid platform suited to 
his idea, would bring about a state of things
that would give permanence and security to
governmental and business transactions.
	Brigham Young was a native of New Eng-
land, and was born in the town of Whiting-
ham, Windham County, Vermont, on the 1st
day of June, 1801, but his father subsequently
removed to Mendon, Monroe County, New
York. He was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints April 14th,
1832, although he had heard and believed the
Gospel some time previous. From that time
until the present; his labors have been active
and unceasing in the work revealed from heav-
en to Joseph Smith. When the Twelve Apos-
tles were chosen his name was next to that of
Thomas B. Marsh, President of the quorum,
and when after a few years Marsh apostatized,
Brigham Young succeeded him as President
of the Twelve.
	Brigham Young, although he has past be-
hind the veil and we shall behold his face no
more, lives in the hearts of his people, and
will be perpetuated through the principles he
taught, which will yet be more fully devel-
oped in the lives and practice of the Latter-day
Saints. Brigham Young was the true friend
of Woman's enfranchisement and progression.
Volumes might be written of his life, his char-
acter, his many excellencies, and yet not the
half be told of this marvelous man, the won-
der of this nineteenth century.
	For Brigham Young no eulogium is needed,
everywhere his works praise him, and are
wreathed about his memory with a halo of ten-
derness as a crown of glory.


