CHARITIES AND INDUSTRIES.

 The season for storing up grain has now ar-
rived.  The gleaners are in the fields, and
many of the daughters of Zion have gone
forth to gather the scattered wheat left by the
harvesters. How noble for those who have
homes full of plenty and to spare to go into
the open fields in the hot sunshine and gather,
little by little, a few kernels to store away.
And for the poor sisters who have gone and
gleaned, who shall say it shall not be account-
ed unto them, in the great day of reckoning,
more than a garner full given by the rich, who
have a profusion of means and do not realize
the giving.
	The world may ridicule the idea of Mormon
women storing up a little handful of grain.
Does not the same God live to-day that gave
unto Elisha the prophet power to multiply the
widow's oil in the days of old?  And, that sent
Elijah to the widow of Zarephtath and found
her gathering sticks, and when he asked her to
fetch him a little water to drink and a morsel
of bread to eat, she answered, "As the Lord
thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but an hand-
ful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a
cruse: and behold, I am gathering two sticks,
that I may go in and dress it for me and my
son, that we may eat it and die."  All who
have read the Scriptures know how the meal
and the oil were increased until the day that
the Lord sent rain upon the earth.  The same
God has charge concerning His people now,
and has a tender and special care for the wid-
ows and fatherless.  It is the humble and meek
and lowly that the Lord loves.  The Savior
chose for his associates and companions the
poor, and he pronounced upon them the choic-
est blessings.
	This year there is an abundant harvest of
grain, and it will be well for the Latter-day
Saints if they remember to listen to the coun-
sel which has been given by President Brig-
ham Young in regard to laying up grain, and
seek with all diligence to carry out his wishes,
so plainly expressed, telling the sisters to go to
work and unite together and co-operate and
store up grain.
	There is testimony upon testimony that such
a course will be wise, the very fact of the re-
cent famine in India is one strong argument
to the thinking mind, and the great Eastern
war, which seems likely to involve all the na-
tions of Europe, is of itself sufficient to war-
rant all peoples, while peace and plenty reign,
to prepare for future emergencies.
	The women of this church should be earnest
and active in all charities which are designed
to bless and comfort and improve the condition
of the human family; and to keep alive the in-
terests, and inspire with zeal and ardor those
who are engaged in any noble enterprise, de-
pends invariably upon the few.  It is the few
who carry the heavy burdens in any public
matter for the good of humanity.  It is the
few workers, real and effective, who shoulder
the responsiblities and roll on the true mech-
anism that brings about successful results, or
solves any difficult problem.
	In the industries established in Utah has it
not been the few who have exerted themselves,
using their time, means, and influence, while
the majority have stood still, remained indif-
ferent, or sought their own individual interest
and welfare, independent of the good and well-
being and future prosperity of the kingdom of
God, or the Territory of Utah?
	If the sisters would unite together, more of
them, and concentrate their efforts systemati-
cally, they could almost do anything they
wish to do in the right direction.  Humility
and faith with obedience to counsel will be
sure to bring down the special blessings of
heaven upon the good and great work com-
menced by the women of Utah.


