HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE DESERET University commenced its
regular session, Monday, August 27, with its
former corps of teachers. Dr. J. R. Park,
Principal. The Academic year is divided into
four terms of ten weeks each. There are three
departments in the University—the Prepara-
tory, the Normal, and the Academic.
	MR. J. H. Elward, of St. Paul, Minn., called
at our office and spent an hour in conversation
with us on woman's work, the topics of the
day, and the ideas of different persons on the
immortality of the soul. Mr. Elward is the
inventor and proprietor of the "Elward Har-
vester," which has become general in use
throughout the country. He expressed him-
self pleased with the city and its many indus-
trial and other improvements.
	MISS M. E. Cook's Graded School in the
Social Hall will commence on Monday, Sept.
3d. This school is now fairly established on a
systematic scale of gradation. The building
has been newly fitted up, outside and inside,
and a new picket fence, new stairs and fresh


paint add much to the appearance of this Hall,
which was one of the first places built in the
Territory for a public use, and there are some
pleasant associations connected with the Social
Hall, which render it very dear to many of the 
pioneer saints.

	WE SEE in our exchanges much upon wo-
man's work in temperance, and we have also
had pamphlets, notices and letter sent us
from different places, regarding the labor actu-
ally performed in this good cause.  Ladies of
influence and position are earnest and active
in seeking to suppress, by some means, the
sale of ardent spirits.  The "Dunken Bill,"
presented in the Parliament of Great Britain,
it is ardently hoped by all interested in tem-
perancees will become a law.  This law requires
that not less than five gallons of liquor be sold
at a time.  Are not the women of Utah capa-
ble of taking gold of this matter, efficiently
and actively, and present a Bill to the Leg-
islative Assembly, which will meet the com-
ing winter-the first Monday in January?  This
subject has been under consideration now for
some time, and if it is possible for any regula-
tion to be brought about that will further this
good cause, may God speed woman and man
in the good work.

	MR. TULLIDGE'S new work, "The Women of 
Mormondom," is now fairly launched upon
the market.  This new and interesting book is
for sale at the Woman's Commision House,
price $3.00.  We would like to give our read-
ers a few choice and most brilliant paragraphs
from it, upon the woman question, that ques-
tion being one of the most popular subjects of
the times, both in America and Great Britian.
In the 59th chapter, page 516, you will find the 
following: it is most emphatic and prophet-
cal; and peculiarly adaptable to the spirit of 
the day:
The age of Messiah's coming is the woman's
age! or there is no sense in the utterances of
prophecy, nor meaning in the most beautiful
parables of Christ.
	And this is the woman's age! all humanity
is proclaiming it!
	The women of the age are obeying the im-
pulses of the age.  Do they know what those
impulses mean?  They have heard the cry and 
come forth.  Do they comprehend what that 
cry has signified?--'Behold, the Bridegroom
cometh; go ye out to meet him!"
	Unwittingly they are testing the Scriptures
and proving that the coming of the Messiah is 
the crowning truth of the world.  However
the five wise virgins of Zion are coming forth
in faith.  They are now unwittingly fulfilling
their Lord's word.  They have interpreted the
cry, and are trimming their lamps.
 Man may as well attempt to throw back
the ocean with the hollow of his hand, or put
out the sun with the breath of his command,
as to attempt to defeat the on-coming of 'Wo-
man's hour.'
	Let the God of humanity be praised for 
this; for did not the virgins come out at this 
eleventh hour, the fisherman might go to their
nets, and let the midnight pass, and earth
take the consequence.
	But how wondrously are the divine themes
of earth's grace from God revealed.  Down
through the ages they came, as echoes mel-
lowed into more celestial tones.
	Creation begins again! Zion-the New
Jerusalem-is the saint's bride.  She is the
coming Eve."  The author then makes a 
quotation from the Revelations of St. John,
concerning the new heaven and the new earth
and the marriage supper of the Lamb, and
proceeds as follows:
	"Truly there is a glorious prophesy and a 
sublime truth, hallelujahed from the ages down
in this proclamation of  woman's mission
at the hour of the Lord's coming.
	The lives of the Mormon women are as a 
testament to the age.  The very character
which their church has taken, as the literal
Zion of the latter-days, shall soon be recog-
nized as the symbol of the hour.
 And the virgins in every land shall hear
the cry, 'Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go
ye out to meet him!"
	The author reasons well upon new civiliza-
tion in his closing chapter.
	"New civilizations are the chiefest boons of
humanity. Never was a new civilization more
needed than now, for in the last century the
world has rushed over the trackway of a thou-
sand years.  A train dashing forward at the 
rate of one hundred miles an hour would not
be in more danger than will soon be society,
unless a safety valve-a new civilization-is 
opened.
	This is the woman's age.  The universal
voice of society proclaims the fact. Woman
must, therefore, lay the corner-stone of the
new civilization.  Her arm will be most potent
in rearing the glorious structure of the future.
Man cannot prevent it for it is a divine intend-
ing." 
	These are the author's closing remarks: "We 
have seem the daughters of Zion, with her
sons, establish their institutions upon the 
foundation of new revelation.  We have seen
them rearing temples to the august name of
the God of Israel.  We have seen their match-
less faith, their devotion, their heroism.
	We have seen them because of their fidelity
to their religion, driven from city to city and
from State to State.
	We have seen them in the awful hour of
martyrdom.
	We have seen them in the exodus of mod-
ern Israel from Gentile civilization, following
their Moses.
 The daughters of Zion were going up to
the chambers of the mountains, to hide from
the oppressor till the day of their strength.
Their banners were then their pioneer whips.
Their banner now is female suffrage-on it in
scribed, "Woman's Rights! in the name of the 
God of Israel!'
	Fifty thousand of the daughters of Zion!
Each with her banner!
	We have seen them on the cross with their
crown of throns. We SHALL see them on their
throne, with their crown of glory.  In this is
divine and everlasting justice.
	They have sown in tears, they shall reap in
gladness.
	With their pioneer whips in their lands
they came up to the chambers of refuge, as 
exiles.
	With the sceptre of woman's rights, they
will go down as apostles to evangelize the 
nation.
 "'Who is she that looketh forth as the morn
ing, fair as the moon, clear as the sun and ter-
rible as an army with banners?'
	"The Daughter of Zion!"


