	WATERTOWN, NEW YORK.
		July 30th, 1877
MY DEAR NIECE:
	For a long time I have wanted to return
many thanks to some kind donor, for sending
me the excellent little paper, the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. I have been much interested in
reading it.


I like your idea of home manufacture; you
seem to be making and inventing almost every-
thing that is useful and beautiful. I have
been very much interested in reading of your
silk manufacturing business; if it is carried to
perfection it will be almost invaluable. My
father once went into the silk culture; I was
at home a number of times while he was in
the business, and often saw the big worms eat-
ing their dinner from the mulberry leaves; it
did not seem to me I could ever handle them,
father and mother would pick the dear things
up so carefully and carry them from one bunch
of leaves to another, as tenderly as I would
handle the most delicate little baby. I never
had a dress from the manufactory, but I had
some very good sewing silk, that was the most
that my father manufactured. If you answer
this letter, which I very much hope you will,
will it be too much trouble to send me a little
specimen of dress silk? I see by the EXPO-
NENT that ladies have had dresses made from
your home manufacture, and it will much
oblige your old auntie. I was eigthy-three the
8th of last May—am living on borrowed time,
yet my general health is qnite good, can write,
read, knit, and do fine sewing; have not
strength to walk much, but love dearly to ride
in an easy carriage. As far as I know the
Huntington relatives are all enjoying usual
health. On the 7th of July my brother Cyrus,
the only brother I have living, and he is sev-
enty-six years old, celebrated the fifty-third
anniversary of his marriage, by having a fam-
ily gathering, which was a delightful one to
all present. He has four children, three sons
and one daughter; two of the sons are physi-
cians, one a farmer, and the daughter is the
wife of a wealthy farmer; the youngest was
killed in the rebellion. I must close this long
epistle by saying I do not expect to be here
many years more, God only knows. I feel
that I have a home in those mansions not
made with hands, eternal in the heavens. It
is twenty-five years ago to-day since my good
husband died. Mary unites with kind regards.
Please remember us to Dimick and wife.
