PIPSEY PAPERS.

	How small and weak I am, lying here so
helpless, and thinking of the strong, brave
things I should like to do. My fancy goes
out to the far future and weaves bright
pictures, and dreams fair dreams, of things
longed for, and hopes whose fruition may
never be realized. It takes labor, and deep
thought, and steady purpose to accomplish
any great good, or arise to eminence in any
particular calling. I am not lacking in per-
severance, in forethought, in will to do,
but my puny strength is so weak for the
task that is laid before me. The ordinary
cares and responsibilities of life call my at-
tention, fill up my time, and use the
strength of both mind and body until there
is but little left to battle with the higher
laws of nature. And yet my life is not a
blank: there may have been a lack of music
and poetry, but there is much in the prose
of all lives that is noble and good. There
is depth and pathos and fervor. There is
sweetness and tenderness that imprints the
heart, and a grand sublimity that awakens 
the echoes of old time music in our soul,
and resounds to a higher impulse than the
lyric strains of a mere rhythmical sensation.
How little we know as we are plodding
among the interminable cares and perplexi-
ties of the dull routine of daily life, the
bright possibilities that lie in the future.
	We live two lives. One, the outer life,
which appeals to the grosser sensibilities of
our nature, is filled with the daily routine
of duties, the household affairs, the care

[Column 2]

and annoyances consequent on the sur-
roundings in which we are placed. The
other is a dream life, filled with the higher
aspirations of our hearts. The bright im-
aginations with which we are wont to while
away the tediousness of mending Johnny's
torn jacket. There is no romance in the
dirty jacket, but with what a halo we en-
circle the curly head that is now nestled
down with its sweet face pressing the pil-
low which our hands have made clean and
fresh. We weave in imagination a bright
future for the little fellow, following him
forth a stalwart man battling with the pos-
sibilities of life, winning honor and renown,
holding high resolves, and bringing us
comfort and joy in our life's decline. Alas!
how often are our dreams but idle ones. I
saw a stricken lamb, the pride and comfort
of his parents and friends, a child of rare
promise, handsome and intelligent: a bruise
on the arm, a ride in the hot sun, and in
nine days the mortal remains of little Peter,
putrid and sickening, was all that was left
to tell of the terrible struggle death had
ere he came off conqueror. How little we
know when our beautiful ones will be
snatched from us; and how careful we
should be to attend to wounds, lest they
should prove more serious than we think
they are. God gives us the little ones to
cherish and protect, let us then lead them
forth with kind instructions and good ex-
amples, to fit them for the higher duties of
life, that our beautiful dreams may not be
vain ones. That one day the curly heads
that now nestle so fondly to our bosoms
may be held proudly, and the feet may
tread firmly the paths of honor, and the
laws of life and progress be carried out.
	How many pure hearts and bright spirits
have gone forth into the world innocent
and lovely, but the contaminating influence
of surrounding circumstances, vicious as-
sociations, a false step, and lo! the mind is
corrupted, the heart becomes impure, and
no skill or wisdom can save them from deg-
radation fouler than the corruption of death,
and deeper than the silence of the grave.
	MARY.
