	FAIRVIEW, Aug. 7, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In your issue of Aug. 1st, I notice an ar-
ticle entitled "A word to the young people
of Zion." As we do not all look at one sub-
ject from the same standpoint I sometimes
think that the older people are as much to
blame as the young, and in consideration
thereof I offer you a few of my ideas if
you have space for them in your valuable
paper.
	The subject of instructing the young and
to caution them against what would prove
detrimental to them in the future, is cer-
tainly one of the most noble acts that a hu-
man being could perform. But how to ac-
complish the desired result is a matter that
may call for much thought, time and study.
	In my humble way of reasoning I have
always thought that the best mothers would
be examples, this connected with earnest-
ness, kindness and love to such an extent
that it might be felt, yes, seen by the young,
could not fail to do much to elevate man-
kind. But what effect will preaching the
Word of Wisdom have upon the sons when
the father makes use of those things
(against which he preaches) not only for his
own gratification, but, even, as bribes or in-
ducements before his sons to accomplish
his work in the harvest-field canon, and so
forth. Or of what service will a sermon
against profane language be to a man's fam-
ily who himself indulges in the degrading
—not to use a harsher term—practice? And
cannot any intelligent woman see that she
will never be able to undo the evil she
brings upon her daughters when she speaks
in one way before a person's face and in
another behind her back?
	If the minds of the young were not such
that they rather look at our actions and pat-
tern thereby, than to reason for themselves,
all these things might be over looked; but
as it is I would say to my brethren and sis-
ters, show us by your actions what you be-
lieve and the good you will, through the
aid of God, accomplish for the future good
and happiness of mankind, will be a star in
your crown in the great day of our Lord
and Savior.
	A. M. N.


ZEALOUSLY keep down little expenses
and you will not incur larger ones.
	A COLLEGE education does not cost as
much as a piano. Let no girl believe she
has no opportunity to become well educat-
ed.


