BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

 It is known to the world far and wide
that the Latter-day Saints believe in direct
revelation.  Through this channel (revela-
tion) they obtained the knowledge of the
principles of plural marriage and in no oth-
er way would pure and devotional women,
who had been educated and traditionated
in the ideas of the present age accept it. It
is truly the sacred phase of polygamy
which gives it prestige.
 The law of Celestial Marriage given to
Joseph Smith was a renewal of the same
order of matrimony practiced by the peo-
ple of God in ancient times.
 The angels sent to deliver the message
and these keys of knowledge, informed the
prophet Joseph that this holy order was
that which had existed forever, by which
men and women could become exalted; that
through no other covenant could they ob-
tain crowns and kingdoms, principalities
and eternal lives in the world to come, but
would be ministering servants to those who
had through obedience to this and all other
holy ordinances, obtained the fulness of
blessings and prepared themselves to enter
upon a higher plane.
 By this solemn covenant men and wo-
men could be joined together for eternity;
and only upon this principle could men take
more wives, or be sure of receiving again to
themselves their companions who had died
previous to their receiving a knowledge of
this law, except through this direct chan-
nel and power vested in the Holy Priest-
hood; which priesthood is after the order of
Melchizedek, to which reference is made
many times in the Old and New Testament.
This revelation was not given to be played
with, or as an idle saying, but as a com-
mandment from God; and one which in-
volved the most solemn obligations and re-
lationships.
The taking of more wives increases in a
very great degree a man's responsibilities;
not only is he bound to cherish them ten-
derly with his holiest and best affections;
but he should esteem them as precious jew-
els committed to his charge, for which he
must render an account of his stewardship
at the highest tribunal of Justice.  And it
would be well for the world to consider
that it was with a knowledge of all that
would be required, that Joseph Smith and
his brethren entered upon the practice of
the higher law.
 Any person conversant with the Holy
Scriptures may easily comprehend that even
David, although he was king over Israel,
received his wives at the hand of Nathan
the prophet, the one who held the keys of
this holy order of matrimony.  Through
this direct lineage the Savior descended;
yet the people in this so called enlightened
day look upon plural marriage as unholy
and seek to pass laws and devise ways and
means to criminate those who practice the
patriarchal form of marriage.  In ancient
days men and women talked with God and
were likely to understand His will.  To
look at the condition of the world, all who
make science a study may see that there is
some grievous misapplication of the laws of
life. People look on and try to find out
the cause, some will say women ruin their
health, consequently their offspring, with
their mode of dress, with dissipation, with
this or that excess, but they pass blindly
over the great primal cause, viz. the im-
proper, unjust and unholy marriage regula-
tions.  Men and women had so far degener-
ated from the true standard that they were
incapable by their own wisdom to arrive at
any succesful solution of the great problem
of life.
 Therefore God in His infinite wisdom re-
vealed to those who had proved their in-
tegrity to Him, by promulgating the Gos-
pel of truth, the law of Celestial Mar-
riage, and remember when He did so, it
was with a knowledge of the true science
of life; He knew that it would be an inno-
vation that men who were wise after the
manner of the world would not receive be-
cause of its unpopularity.  He inspired the
mind of Joseph Smith to make it known to
a few, those few, men and women of strict
moral principle, who had proven themselves
ready to die if necessary in the vindication
of truth.  They feared to disobey God more
than man.
 Religion according to its acceptation in
the nineteenth century relates to a spirit-
ual life only, and applies to spiritual works;
but TRUE religion covers all the ground of
one's temporal, as well as spiritual life
from the cradle to the grave, and reaches on
to eternal progression, and should enter into
the pre-natal influence of every mother
who is cognizant of the importance of bear-
ing the souls of men.  In many instances
it is pre-natal influences which stamp
themselves irremediably upon offspring so
that no after cultivation can wholly eradi-
cate the evil result.  If women desire to
bear children who will be able to perpetuate
themselves in races that will be honorable
and endurable, they should choose for their
companions, and the father of their off-
spring men of correct moral principle, who
fear God and strive to keep His laws.  It
is useless to tell women that they must
control and discipline themselves during
maternity in order to have wholesome and
superior children, if the husband is not pure
as well as the wife; for though the wife be
purity itself (if that were possible,) the
father if wicked and corrupt, stamps his na-
ture and temperament sufficiently upon his
offspring to contaminate the fountains of
life. An adulterated spring sends its poi-
sonous influence down through all its ave-
nues, and though scarcely perceptible, yet
the taint is there and impregnates those
who partake.  Grapes are not produced
from thorns nor figs from thistles.
	The world acknowledge that women sur-
pass men in innate purity, and if they
would preserve themselves pure through
their offspring, let them exact similar puri-
ty of the man with whom they unite in the
most sacred covenant ever consecrated, that
which is to be the promoter of a new life,
and perpetuate the human family.  Are
men who are unwholesome and dissipated
fit to become fathers?  Yet such men mar-
ry; and they never choose women of their
own caste, Oh no! a breath of suspicion
must  not shadow those whom they would
consign to lives of misery and degradation.
Women who have preserved themselves
chaste as the angels, whose offspring would
have been pure and sound, unite them-
selves with men who entail upon their
posterity such appetites and passions, as no
amount of self-denial, or discipline on the
part of the mothers, or after cultivation can
ever wholly obliterate.  When fathers
learn that God requires them to be pure as
well as the mothers, they will have ad-
vanced somewhat in the lessons of life.  God
knew that women were better prepared
than men to keep this higher law and that
there were more devotional women whan
men, and he desired them to become moth-
ers to bear a righteous and holy seed who
would serve Him, therefore He introduced
again the patriarchal form of marriage, and
gave to men who would abide His law the
privilege of having more wives, and He
will through this holy order purify men
and women and there will be at least a few
who will become a "fit temple for the Holy
Spirit to dwell in."  But God never gives a
law that has not a penalty attached if it is
broken, and the higher the law the more
fearful the consequences of breaking it.
Therefore those who desire to obtain the
promises, and higher exaltation must live
according to the requirements of this high-
er law, and will be called upon to make the
sacrifice of a broken and contrite heart not
after the spiritualized signification but lit-
erally.
 We are frequently asked the question
whether polygamy does not tend to indif-
ference in the marriage relations, or from
the very nature of the circumstances be-
come alienated in their affections.  We can
answer truthfully, No!  Plural marriage
makes woman more the companion and
much less the subordinate than any other
form of marriage; and when women have
learned to be self-reliant and self-sustain-
ing, and comprehend that in marriage
there is a higher purpose than being a man's
pet or even housekeeper, they will if edu-
cated in the most refined womanly sense,
choose to become the wives of men who are
living for lofty purposes, and their love
will partake more of the exalted tone and
sentiment, and their children become more
spiritual and inherit the elements of a high-
er nature.  It is grossly absurd to say plural
marriage is a sin in the sight of heaven when
we have abundant testimony before us, that
God has blessed this people in a most won-
derful manner ever since its practice.  More
than this, physicians, men of science, and
phrenologists have all failed to discover in
the children born in plural marriage any
inequalities, or lack of brain, or muscle and
fibre that would characterize children born
of unsuitable parentage.  There is a wide
field of knowledge open before us, and we
have only just begun to learn the true laws
of life, but if we keep ourselves pure and
humble, God will teach us how to overcome
all evil and obtain the exaltation promised
to those who will abide in the new and
everlasting covenant.
	S. L. City, Aug. 1877.


