HYRUM, CACHE Co., Aug. 9, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 On Tuesday the 7th inst., the Relief So-
ciety of this ward held their ninth anniver-
sary meeting at 10 a. m. in the Public Hall,
which was very tastefully decorated by the
young ladies. There were present Elders
James Unsworth, Charles C. Shaw, Father
Benson, and H. J. Johnson. President
Christina Liljenquist called the meeting
to order and after the usual opening servi-
ces the Secretary, Nancy M. Neilson read
the financial report which showed that
$253,25 had been donated during the year.
Eleven quilts and a number of other arti-
cles had been made by the society. This
amount has been used for missionaries, for
the poor, given toward the temple etc., a
balance remaining in the treasury. The
Society has one hundred and sixty bushels
of wheat in the granary; also has shares in
the Co-op store and cash out on interest.
After reading the report the following offi-
cers were re-elected: Christina Liljenquist,
President, Christina Johnson and Ruth Mc-
Bride Counselors, Nancy M. Neilson, Sec-
retary, R. Allen Assistant Secretary, and
Keziah Allen, Treasurer. The meeting
was one of great interest; the remarks of
the brethren and sisters were replete with
good and wise counsel. The spirit of God
rested upon both speakers and hearers.
One of the brethren in his remarks said he
had during the past nine years been ac-
quainted with the labors of the society was
pleased with their course, and he had never
seen a better spirit manifested in a meeting
than he had felt was with them on that oc-
casion. It gave him great pleasure to see
the growth and improvement from year to
year. These actual facts explode the idea
that the Women of Utah are the down-trod-
den beings the world suppose them to be.
  A sumptuous, dinner wns served at 1.30,
p. m. to which a free invitation was ex-
tended to all the widows and poor of our
town. One hundred and fifty persons sat
down to dinner.
	Respectfully Yours,
		NANCY M. NEILSON
					Secretary.

		Honeyville July 17, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
I feel it a pleasure to have Calls Fort
have a name in the  Relief Society. I feel
this is a great work in which we are en-
gaged, and also that it is a great privilege
to be one to help to do all in my power to
assist in doing good. I hope we will im-
prove upon the talents which the Lord has
given to us; if we are not called to go into
the world to preach the Gospel, we can save
grain and do many things that will help
roll on the kingdom of God. We can be
careful and economical, and dress in a suit-
able and becoming manner, as saints and
women who delight to serve God and keep
His commandments.
	Sisters, let us quit following after foolish
and disgraceful fashions, and try to do the
will of our Father in Heaven, and see that
we have oil in our lamps, and be prepared
to receive the blessings in store for the
faithful.
	Our Society was organized by President
Harriet Snow and others from Brigham
City. We hold our meetings twice a month;
we feel our sisters have done well in the
past year. We have stored five hundred
and five bushels of wheat, and expect to
lay up still more.
		Your sister in the covenant, 
