	TOOLE CITY, Aug. 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have often thought I would like to
mingle my voice with the rest of my sis-
ters through the columns of the EXPONENT,
and having a few moments for reflection I
will try to express myself on a subject dear
to my heart.
	I cannot but thank my Heavenly Father
for reserving my spirit until the last days,
so that I can become useful in helping to 
build up the Kingdom of God. I used to
feel as if everything was a sealed book to
me, but I am happy to say that through
obedience to the will of God I can under-
stand to a great degree that which I hear
and read. A man or woman guided by the
spirit of God can understand for them-
selves that the principles of the Gospel are
true. My own experience has taught me
more than all the world can do, and no one
can take that knowledge from me if I do
the will of my Father which is in heaven;
He has promised that if we faithfully obey
His commandments, we shall know that our
Redeemer lives and intercedes for us. If
we allow ourselves to feel unhapy and de-
sponding we are yielding to evil influences,
and we forget ourselves and our holy mis-
sion here. The sooner we retrace our steps


the better it will be for us, for the adver-
sary is always on the alert to take advan-
tage of our weaknesses, so it behooves us
to be on our guard. The Lord will never
forsake us if we do not grieve His Holy
Spirit. When we are tempted and tried,
let us enter our closets and tell our Heav-
enly Father our troubles, and if we go with
a humble and contrite spirit. He will for-
give us our sins. Dear sisters let us obey
all the counsels of our beloved President
Brigham Young, whether it is in saving
grain for a future day, or raising silk or any
thing else that he may call upon us to do.
Let us strive to become self-sustaining and
aim to make ourselves useful as well as or-
namental, and if we cultivate His holy
spirit, God will lead, guide, and direct us in
all righteousness.
	We receive the EXPONENT regularly and
it is read with interest.
