A NIGHT FOR PRAISE This night is one for keeping faith with stars And with all steepled hopes that rise Skyward and far as lifting dream can rise. It is a time of gratitude for earth— The remnant wedge of wings that circles low Above the drift of leaves, surrendering to frost, The root that waits with patience under snow— A night to shelter tenderly the peace From secret altars where the sacrificial fires Of our repentance burn. Unleash the tethered love And name as blest the subtle verities of grief That temper winds and school the heart to wear The face of sorrow with triumphant grace. A night to glean the heirloom sheaves of time, Relive the parable, retrieve the singing harp. Without this manna for our hungering, Without the cross, compassion of his word, Earth would be lost to all eternal purpose. Speak grateful words that he of manger birth Would leave celestial glories for our sake— To meet accusing stone, the final blade. This Christmas night sing joy in reverent phrase— It is a night for kneeling—and for praise. —Alberta H. Christensen The Cover: I Virgin and Child With Joseph From a Painting by Andrea del Sarto Transparency by Free Lance Photographers Guild Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: § 'The Root That Waits With Patience Under Snow'' Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: § Dick Scopes Illustrations: I Mary Scopes 881

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Discourse on Leaves Grayce E. Cutler) ===
Renewing again spring greens, Now summer-turned gold to September, A whirling dervish of scarlet Overtones amid eternal soft Cries of falling leaves. —Grayce E. Cutler 

957 December 1970

 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US ROSE PARADE TOUR VIA SAN FRANCISCO VIA SAN DIEGO Dec. 26—Jan 2 SOUTHERN TEMPLE TOURS March 14-20 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 BEST WISHES FOR A iby -— Prison *K a (oe 4 DESERET. [REws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 £ PANY '*Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos _ Instruments And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Happiness is total plectric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 958 Wayfaring Man of Grief Barborka and Rober? Peterson 959 99 Mrs. Emma Johanna Ottesen Halverson 9 1 Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Lenora Ann Hudson Sheffield Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada Q7 Mrs. Celinda Twitchell Olson Portland, Oregon 96 Mrs. Elizabeth Walker Stott Portland, Oregon Miss Florence Brown Salt Lake City, Utah ays Mrs. Susanna Clark Westman Long Beach, California Mrs. Minnie Chatterley Harris Lehi, Utah 94 Mrs. Janetta Caroline Johnson Nelson a3 92 960 Murray,

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Mothers in Israel Joseph Fielding Smith) ===
Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription price 25¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. The Magazine discontinues publication with this issue. 882 Mothers In Israe] President Joseph Fielding Smith My dear Sisters or 128 years, and has INStilled I am stateful for this Pporint the heart f co tless of Unity to Participate In your ~ OUr good Sisters those desires for ference You are Members o the Ighteousnese Which have been Ereatest women's Organizatj Pleasing to the Lord. IN the world, an Organization May I NOw say a few Words to Which igs 2 Vital part of the king. YOu about your high Position °m of God On earth and which and destiny as, "Mothers in Is IS so designed and op Yated that rael." Some f you may have re. It helps its faithfy] Members Celved Patriarcha} b €ssings jn &ain etern! Life jn Our Fathey' Which yoy Were told in Substance Ingdom "As a Mother in Israe] Shalt tho I bring YOu the love and the and," any event, his Promblessings of the Irst Preside Ise jis the assured Inheritance of the Chu » and ©xpress their all the faithfy] Sisters Of the commendation and 4Ppreciation Chu ch, of all thoge Who love to Sister Belle S Spafford to her 4nd serve the Lord With al] their very able c nselors, to the mem. POWer and h keep the combers of th enera] Board, nd to ndments Which he has £iven all of You other Relief Society 4 mother jn Israe] in leaders the ful] 80spel sense Is the Ighest The lief Societ WaS estabreward tha Can come Into the lished by the Spirit of Nspiration, life woman. This designation S bee Suided hat Splrit has deep and Signifi December 1970 ing, one that is far more than marrying and bearing children in this life, great and important as that course is. In fact, in the full and true sense of the word, the blessing of being mothers in Israel shall come in due course to some who, through no fault of their own, are denied the opportunity to marry and to bear children in this life. For us to envision what is meant by being mothers in Israel, we must have in mind our own position as the spirit children of God the Eternal Father. We must remember that he is a personal being in whose image man is created, and that he has a body of flesh and bones which is as tangible as man's. We must remember that we were born as his spirit offspring in the premortal life and that we dwelt with him in the family unit before the foundations of this earth were laid. Ordinarily we speak freely of our Father in Heaven, but have little to say about our Mother in Heaven. There is, of course, no such thing as a father without a mother, or of children without parents, and we do have some official and authoritative statements about this doctrine, one of which was made by my father, President Joseph F. Smith and his counselors, John R. Winder and Anthon H. Lund, back in 1909. Speaking of pre-existence and the origin of man, the First Presidency in that day said plainly that "man, as a spirit, was begotten and born of heavenly parents, and reared to maturity in the eternal mansions of the Father," that man is the "offspring of celestial parentage," 884 and that "all men and women are in the similitude of the universal Father and Mother, and are literally the sons and daughters of Deity." Eliza R. Snow—who kept the minutes of some of the first Rehef Society meetings held in the Church, and who served as general president from 1866 to 1887— recorded in her great hymn, "O My Father," this glorious truth of celestial parentage, including a Father and a Mother in Heaven. These are her words: In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there. When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high? Then at length, when I've completed All you sent me forth to do, With your mutual approbation Let me come and dwell with you. Now, the plan of salvation and exaltation which we know as the gospel of Jesus Christ was given to us by the Eternal Father so that we might create for ourselves eternal family units which are patterned after his family. And in his family, while yet in pre-existence, many of the faithful and devoted spirit children were set apart and chosen to come to earth through the lineage of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. This means that the house of Israel was foreknown as a distinct group in the pre-mortal life, which is what enabled Moses to call attention to the day, "When the Most High divided to the nations their inheritance, when he separated the sons of Adam, he set the bounds Of the according t¢ O the children of Israel]. " € are al] also Mean havin aWare that the j; Lord told Abraham h g dren InN the resurrection I act, the he Would be anguage used by th Prophet a father of Many Nations anq °Seph Smith In tea hing this that his Seed wo Id be like th doctrine Ww Stars of heave nd as the Sand which ls Parents of offsprin g." a Triage that Abra 4nd Sarah gai Nant, and Is then true and faithfy] to Promises Made all of ¢ e€ terms "Abrah of that Covenant, the Concernin hi Will be h Sband and Wife forever. Then « SO long as the ©, to their N and glory in all things as hath e > his see Pon their to count € sand Pon the se Shore ye he see 8S," this Could not number them," revelation the Speaks of a "CconThen, ha December 1970 faithful descendants of Abraham, to those of us who are of the house of Israel and who have joined the Church, the revelation continues: "This promise is yours also, because ye are of Abraham, and the promise was made unto Abraham; and by this law is the continuation of the works of my Father, wherein he glorifieth himself. Go ye, therefore, and do the works of Abraham; enter ye into my law and ye shall be saved." We are the seed of Abraham: we are the ones who have right to the blessings of the priesthood, and to the "blessings of the Gospel, which are the blessings of salvation, even of life eternal." If we are faithful and true, it shall be our privilege to go on forever in the patriarchal order, inheriting in due course all of the blessings of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Now I think we should remind ourselves that this life is the time to prepare to meet God, that we are here to be tried and tested to see if we shall qualify to gain the blessings of Abraham and Sarah. This mortal life is itself a schooling, probationary estate. But so also is our life in the family unit. The gospel is family centered; it must be lived in the family. It is here we receive our greatest and most important training as we seek to create for ourselves eternal family units patterned after the family of God our Father. We are in training in our mortal families to operate eternal families in a state of glorious exaltation, where "neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord."