The Princess Part

"You could do that," Mama said.

"I really can't sing very well," I said. "I don't know whether I'd dare even if I could."

"We could take care of that," Mama said. "Maybe Lauramae could sing backstage and you could just move your mouth."

"That would work fine," I agreed. "But what about the dancing? I can't dance."

"You could learn some steps."

"Or maybe Lauramae could be a dancing toad," I suggested.

Mama nodded. "I don't see why not."

"Oh, Mama," I said, "the princess gets to wear the prettiest costume you ever saw. It's all spangled and it's got a little short fluffy skirt like a ballet dancer wears." I looked down at my long thin legs with the knobby knees.

Mama looked, too. "We could make the skirt clear to the floor," she said gently.

 

I had never pictured the fairy princess in a full-length dress. "That wouldn't be quite as pretty, but we could put lots of spangles on it," I said.

There was still wrong. "Mama," I said, "what about my hair? A princess should have curls."

Mama laughed. "That's no problem. We'll get you a permanent." I remembered the last time I had a permanent. My hair had stuck straight out in eight inches of frizz. I couldn't imagine a fairy princess with a head of frizz.

I looked down again at my knobby knees. "Mama," I said. I cleared my throat so I wouldn't start crying again. "Mama, I wouldn't make a good fairy princess at all. I'd be a mess."

Mama was loyal. "You'd be sweet," she said.

I shook my head. "I'd just look silly. I'll make a better toad." Mama smiled at me. "If someone has curls and can sing, it's easy to make the audience believe you're a fairy princess," she said, "but it takes much more real effort to be a believable toad."

I thought about that. Suddenly I didn't want to cry any more. "Maybe Lauramae really meant it when she said she'd like to be the toad," I mused.

Mama nodded. "Maybe," she said, "but Miss Ellerbee thought you could do it better."

You know, if you learn your part well and work very hard, you can make the toad the most interesting character in the whole show." "Will you help me?" I asked, and Mama nodded again. I crawled out of the lilacs and stood up, raising my face to the bright afternoon sunlight. "I'll be the best toad Miss Ellerbee ever saw," I said. "She'll be glad she gave me such a good part." Mama crawled out, too, and stood beside me, smiling down at me. "I just know she will," she said. "Let's go in now and plan your costume." "Let's make it orange with green and purple spots," I said. Oh, there was so much to do. And I would have to remember when I went to Sunday School on Sunday to tell my teacher that sometimes prayers were answered in a much different way than you expected them to be. In the meantime I must practice hopping and speaking in a croaking voice.

Poor Lauramae, I thought. She never gets the fun parts.