EDITORIAL / What Shall the Harvest Be?

A "He [Jesus] went throughout every city and village, preaching and showing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God: and the twelve were with him. And certain women... which ministered unto him of their substance." And when much people were gathered together, and were come to him out of every city, he spake by a parable:

"‘A sower went out to sow his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; and it was trodden down, and the fowls-of the air devoured it.

'And some fell upon a rock; and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away, because it lacked moisture. 'And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it. "And other fell on good ground, and sprang up, and bare fruit an hundredfold....’" (Luke 8:1, 3-8.)

This, the first, and adjudged by many most perfect of the parables, was interpreted by its divine Author:

"Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God. Those by the way side are they that hear; then cometh the devil, and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. They on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive the word with joy; and these have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away. And that which fell among thorns are they, which, when they have heard, go forth, and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection. But that on the good ground are they, which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience." (Luke 8:11-15.)

In this day when evil is rampant, the parable of the sower has particular significance. The "riches and pleasures of life" are the temptations the devil uses to draw men's hearts from following after the commandments of God. Jesus urges his followers to guard against the suggestions of the devil. Not only do these suggestions withhold men from good deeds, but they inspire evil thoughts and draw men to sin. The devil attacks at every point where weakness may lie, and never stops in performing his mission of evil with one kind of temptation alone.

We are told to observe the condition of the soil in the story. The seed was the same, whether it fell on good ground or poor. The gospel is the same. It is the extent to which it is received which makes the difference. Some hear the word and embrace it for a brief period.

As soon as obstacles appear, their enthusiasm dies as the roots from the seed sown in shallow soil shrivel from lack of nourishment. Some hear the word, but the pursuit of the world's pleasures soon smothers its voice, as the thorns and weeds choke out the burgeoning seed. Some hear the word not at all; it does not penetrate their consciousness, as the seed which falls on ground too hard for it to take root. Some hear the word and it thrives and grows within their souls. They tenderly nurture it, cultivate it, keep it free from weeds and thorns and reap harvests of blessings. Their eternal lives are abundantly good and yield an hundredfold to the harvester.

What shall the harvest be? Each individual assures his own harvest. He reaps the consequences of his acts and deeds as time goes by. At the end of his mortal life, the sum of all of his productive years is the great harvest when the good is separated from the bad, as the wheat is separated from the weeds and carefully stored in a granary, and the weeds destroyed.

It is from the harvest, from our receptiveness of the seed, the word of God, we will be judged. What shall the harvest be? Blessings or condemnation according to our works.

L. W. M. Ah.

Leone G.