Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family

Lesson 3 The Problem of Communication
Dr. Robert K. Thomas
Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5 Community Responsibility, Section Three By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas
There is no more sure tie between friends than when they are united in their objects and wishes.
Cicero

Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: 
OBJECTIVE: To show that those who can communicate can work together, and those who can work together make civilization possible.

ART "Advice to a Young Artist" By Honoré Daumier (1808-1879)
French, National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C., Gift of Duncan Phillips.
Painting reproduced in the , page 447.
Commentary on art selection by Floyd E. Breinholt, Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University.

Honore Daumier at the age of seven decided to be an artist. To gain background for his chosen field, he frequented the poorer quarters of Paris and haunted the corridors of the Louvre. He studied Rembrandt and Michelangelo, nature, and the manners and customs of his period. Although he is better known as a lithographer and political cartoonist, it has been said that he was one of the greatest painters of the 19th century.
Daumier expressed very deep feelings in a spirit of satire and ridicule. His caricatures are without hatred or spite, although they are biting. There is a direct simplicity in the expressions of what he saw and felt. All of his work has social significance. His art was and still is a very direct means of communication of ideas, a universal language.
Artists today use art for propaganda purposes just as Daumier did in his time. The painting, "Advice to a Young Artist," is perhaps more mild than many of his works. This is not a portrait of any two particular people but more a generalization of a typical situation in the world of work. We can all learn from others who go before us, especially if they are willing to share their knowledge with us.
In this very commonplace idea, expressed in a simple, earthy manner, one senses a certain kinship between the artist and the common working man, a certain reality that makes the commonplace beautiful when stripped to the bare essentials. None of his works is pretty. All tinsel and glitter have been left out and only simple truth remains. Perhaps this is why many have placed Daumier in the school of realism.
All of his works, full of compassion for the downtrodden, are attempts at communicating the unvarnished truth as he saw it. As in all great art, Daumier in his work gives us not merely a photographic likeness of his subject but an interpretation of it in which he communicates what he knows, thinks, and feels.
 
From childhood, many of us have heard that "sticks and stones may break my bones but names can never hurt me." A far more accurate assessment of reality is given in the Apocrypha when we are reminded that "the stroke of the whip maketh marks in the flesh, but the stroke of the tongue breaketh the bones." Most physical pain is less excruciating than having someone we love and respect speak harshly to us. To feel unloved or unwanted is often more crippling than physical impairment.
Perhaps modern research rightly emphasizes the role of communication in establishing positive human relationships. Such communication need not be in words—how rarely are our deepest feelings easily translated in speech—but we must use words to discuss non-verbal communication, so the importance of language in communication cannot be minimized.
To concede this, however, is not to admit that the basic problem in poor communication is failure to convey information clearly. If this is assumed, we focus our attention so totally on methods of communication that we risk losing ends in means. Although it has been popular to assert recently that the medium we use is an integral part of the message we are trying to convey, it probably needs to be said also that an insignificant message belittles any medium that carries it.
The word communication originally suggested sharing or making common an idea or an experience. If the idea we want to share can touch a positive chord in another's background, the chances for successful communication are immeasurably increased. It is when we try to get through to those who do not share our ideals and values that we have extreme difficulty. It is probably not very accurate to speak of a "communication problem" under such circumstances, lest we assume that we need to refine our method rather than examine our beliefs.
The selections we have chosen for this lesson make less effort to examine procedures than to assess results.

In the beginning poem "The Secret Heart" by Robert P. Tristram Coffin the father is hardly conscious of how deeply he is revealing his love to a half-awake child. But the youngster's identification with his father is so total that he has no difficulty in interpreting the look on his parent's face.
As the next to the last couplet suggests, the moment of illumination was not long, but it was enough to light "all about." The result of such a reassuring insight has been a lifetime of happy memories which are symbolized by a brief vision of his father's "secret heart."
The tone of this tender poem helps us understand how prepared the boy was for his revelation. The real impact of this moment depends very little on the situation, even though it yields a symbol that is memorable one.

 

Question for Discussion
Why is unqualified devotion difficult to hide?
Comment on some of the less obvious ways in which we communicate our identification with that which we love.
Another April
In "Another April" by Jesse Stuart we touch briefly on a number of communicative levels. The boy understands his childlike grandfather as only a child could. If his youthful candor is disconcerting, he sees without the restraints which experience imposes, and he reacts freely and openly, if also superficially.

In the relationships of mother and child there are hints that the young boy understands far more than his simple conversation would suggest and that the mother senses this. Her relationship to her father is now a mildly ambiguous one: she must be both mother and daughter. She doesn't let her practical need to care for him destroy her sensitivity to what he has been to her and still is. The grandfather's relationship with the natural world he had seemed to control totally as a young man has become more passive, but possibly more discriminating. In the terrapin, the old man has a natural counterpart, a checkpoint in his renewed intercourse with the world which is the more precious because it can no longer be taken for granted.
 
Question for Discussion
The grandfather seems to have established meaningful relationships with everyone and everything in this story. Why has he been so successful?

In this short essay Oliver Wendell Holmes helps us see that "full" communication may not be "good" communication. If we try to share sacred feelings with those who are not prepared to respect them, we may lend ourselves to grievous exploitation. A man or a woman is often as vulnerable as an open wound to a marriage partner. In our awareness of the totality of relationship that a good marriage demands, we must also be aware that there is no other human relationship that should ask so much. Letting down restraints in an attempt to understand associates is neither an automatic route to self-enlightenment or a guarantee of better inter-personal relationships. Limits of taste and self-respect should inhibit the intimacies we share. Confession is not a shortcut to that communication which is earned by trust, rooted in similar commitment, and justified by joint responsibility.

Question for Discussion
Why are we tempted to give keys to our "side-doors'" to those who might not use them appropriately?

In his popular version of a careful research study, "Can You Get Along With Your In-Laws?" Edward Fales provides persuasive evidence that all communication problems with in-laws appear to yield to loving acceptance by all concerned. The lists of "do's" and "don'ts" he provides are obviously the result of much experience, but, as he himself suggests, the "one greatest lesson" in the Cornell survey he is reporting on is that people who refused to think of their relatives as "in-laws" but only as "members of our family" were able to establish warm, happy relationships with them.

Question for Discussion
How can we prepare our own sons and daughters to realize that, in marrying, they marry a family as well as a person?

The letters exchanged by Mark Twain and his wife, Livy, are difficult to match in all literature for tender concern and sensitivity to one another. Each almost aches with the desire to understand and help. Mark found it difficult to believe, and Livy was often embarrassed by his lack of taste. She helped him on both counts, some modern critics notwithstanding. Mark aided a gently spoiled child, who took herself very seriously, turn into a resourceful, stimulating woman. In these remarkable letters there is not only growth but a truly notable desire on the part of both to match that ideal that each has of the other.

It is comforting to see how effective words, lovingly chosen, can be in encouraging personal development and fostering marital harmony. Excerpts from two letters follow:

My dear, dear Livy:
November 28, 1868

I do love, love, love you, Livy! My whole being is permeated, is renewed, is leavened with this love, and with every breath I draw its noble influence makes of me a better man. And I shall yet be worthy of your priceless love, Livy. It is the glad task of my life—it is the purest ambition and the most exalted that ever I have known, and [I shall never, never swerve from the path it has marked out for me.

Mark had early found that Livy was careless in her spelling. Up to this point he hadn't teased her about it, but he can't resist in talking to her about his sister:

My sister is a good woman, familiar with grief, though bearing it bravely & giving no sign upon the surface; & she is kind-hearted, void of folly or vanity, perfectly unacquainted with deceit or dissimulation, diffident about her own faults, & slow to discover those of others. She isn't such a gem as you; (by a long shot) & neither is any other woman, but then she is a very, very excellent woman anyway. You'll like her, Livy—she don't seem to spell worth a cent.

You see she spells cow with a K. And she has spelled "tripped" with only one p, & she puts only one t in "delighted," & only two s's in "expression," I can stand those little blunders well enough, but I do hate to see anybody spell John with a G. I look upon that as perfectly awful. I notice that you always spell John with a G.—Now forgive me, Livy, darling—you know I wouldn't poke fun at you to save a man's life if I thought it would wound you. I don't care a straw how you spell, Livy dear—I hardly ever notice when you make a mistake—and bless you I am just as proud of you as if you could 795 October 1869 beat the Unabridged dictionary spelling. It would be a pity indeed if I presumed to criticize your spelling—I who am sown as thick with faults as you are with merits, & shining virtues, & beautiful traits of character; & yet you have found it in your heart to take me just as I am & lift me up & bless me with your priceless love—I never can be your critic, my loved and honored Livy.

Question for Discussion
How much do you think the repeated assertions of love by Mark Twain and his wife actually contributed to that love?

With "Neighbor Rosicky" we conclude our discussion of communication on a highly encouraging note. As the ideals and values of the characters in this fine story come together, effective communication flourishes. Although, Anton Rosicky and his wife, Mary, have worked out most of their adjustments before this account begins, the series of flashbacks, by which part of this story is told, lets us see some of the circumstances that aided their developing unity. It is important to note that years of marriage have not blunted the Rosickys' sensitivity to each other's whims: Anton caters to his wife's sweet tooth, and she has something hot ready for him when he returns from town. Real marital harmony, however, is not built on indulgence. Shared principle is at the base of the Rosickys' strength. Perhaps this is best exemplified in the scene near the end of section two. As the creamery agent tries to persuade them to sell him their cream, Mrs.

Rosicky declares emphatically that she would rather "put some color into my children's faces than put money into the bank." The agent merely turns to Mr. Rosicky to get the real decision, knowing that it is usually the husband's word that really counts among the newly emigrated families with whom he does business. "I guess we'll do like she says," said Rosicky.

The developing relationship of Polly to her father-in-law is possibly the key to this story. Here we have concentrated many of the forces that are supposed to block real communication: Polly is not a recent immigrant; Rosicky is. Rosicky is old; Polly is young. Polly is gregarious, Rosicky is not. Polly is a daughter-in-law.

It takes a rather dramatic crisis to reveal the depth of Rosicky's understanding of and love for Polly and her own "tender heart." In the few minutes that Rosicky and his daughter-in-law share during his heart attack, all barriers that had seemed to inhibit communication between them are swept away. In realizing how much her father-in-law loves her, Polly tells him of her expected child before letting anyone else know. In finding out how tender and capable Polly is, Rosicky sees through the facade of sophistication she had erected between them and knows that she will be the kind of wife Rudolph needs.

Question for Discussion: Why is Rosicky so effective in bringing out the best in everyone he meets?

Like to do grape juice—but hate the mess?