[Vol4 | October 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON IV Home Economics Fourth Week in October THE FORMATIO]

LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in October. THE FORMATION OF CHILDREN'S CHARACTER. We have studied much in our previous lessons this year concerning- .different phases of "child welfare." But most of our attention has been is as it should be, centered since the upon child the is child's first of physical needs animal, all a human This and a firm foundation of physical strength should be the basis of every life. Weakness or physical inefficiency is the cause of many a life's failures. The Keynote of Existence. Still while it is difficult to overestimate the importance of a well-fed body, we must not lose sight of the fact that the parent's greatest responsibility to his Maker and his child is his share in the shaping and building of a strong, noble character. Strength of body or of mind does not assure one of becoming a useful citizen. The greatest criminals living are possessed of strong bodies and keen, well-trained minds. The greatest duty of the Latter-day Saint parent is to develop and train the character and sold of his child. Heredity vs. Environment. Tt is not profitable to speculate upon which has the greatest influence on character, heredity or environment. Undoubtedly each is a very strong factor and must be given due consideration by those who are interested in child welfare. Tt is to be hoped that each son or daughter of Israel has been "born of goodly parents," for no bitter spring can give forth sweet water nor may we hope to "gather figs from thistles." The most prayerful concern must be exercised that each one shall choose wisely the mate who is to share in the making of another family. The exact traits that the great law of heredity passes on to our offspring may be beyond our control; but we are to a large extent the masters of the environment with which we surround them. Not so much as to material wealth but certainly as to the moral atmosphere in which they are reared to maturity. We may decide whether we shall teach them to be honest or dishonest; we may.- by controlling our own tempers and tendencies to weakness, help them to control the tongue, the passion^, and to place the personal will under the control of the divine Will; or by carelessness, teach them the reverse. We may encourage industry and love of useful labor, or by lack of effort on our part, rear them to idleness. And all necessary traits of human character may be taught regardless of the location of our homes or the condition of our purse. Indeed it is nearly always more difficult to bring out the best of human character if the family has an abundance of money. Adversity and struggle seem to be the conditions which make for the finest and strongest characters. However, if the parent is determined by the help of God to bring to maturity the best in his child's nature, he may do so no matter what his financial condition may be. The Parent or Guardian's Key. The first requisite one must have in influencing the character of the child is love  a love deep and unfeigned  and an understanding of the child's nature. This may be difficult to achieve, but it must be accomplished, or our efforts will be vain. Don't be afraid of loving your child or your grandchild (or your neighbor's child, if you are attempting to help him), and don't hesitate to let him know that you love him. Love is to the child what the sun is to the flower  it brings out all the beauty, the perfume, the perfection that might otherwise be stifled or remain hidden forever. No child was ever loved too much, but oh the hundreds that have starved for the most essential thing in life! But do not confuse love with indulgence  they are not synonymous in any sense. Unwise indulgence may undo in one hour all that loving restraint and guidance has built up in years. Another requisite the parent must possess, if he is to help bring out the best in his child, is a firm belief in the child's goodness and ability. No child can overcome wrong tendencies if he is surrounded by those who are always looking for and magnifying his faults. If you don't believe in your child, play you do, make him think you do  until the child's efforts have a chance to bear fruit and you will be surprised at the result. This may take constant and prayerful effort but there is no other way for you to succeed. Yet even here avoid gross flattery and cheap sentimentality. Let vigorous yet loving truth garnish your words and acts. Correct the evil tendency, but don't forget to encourage the worthy effort. The Importance of Comradeship. Take the average child of today. From whom has he learned the most of life's lessons? You may teach him abstractly to love truth, but if you allow him to associate with a child who has learned that by stealing or cheating he may obtain candy or forbidden pleasures, how long will it take your child to practice the same methods? 
 Froebel, the founder of the great Kindergarten system, says. "Come, let us live with our children." And that is the only way to teach them. The parent who remains on a pedestal and is too busy to come down to the child's level and play with him occasionally, and make his child feel that father and mother are his best friends and pals, may rest assured that his teachings, no matter how good, are going to fall on infertile soil. All of us are most liable to learn from and emulate those whom we love best and with whom we most associate. The Essentials of Character. The essential traits of a strong character may be enumerated as: First, love of truth; second, obedience; third, integrity. These three traits (with many minor ones that are outgrowths of them), the parent or teacher should constantly strive to build into the fiber of the child. Every parent will agree with this, but few know instinctively how to practice these virtues, and it is not within the scope of this lesson to go into details. The child's father and mother should understand that they must first possess the traits they are striving to implant, or the lesion is not successful. They must realize that they have undertaken a job whose magnitude and difficulty makes the building of the Panama Canal sink into insignificance. Yet love and the results obtained when the family are grown to a useful maturity make it the most desirable work that man could undertake to do. The parent must be united in the methods used in teaching these valuable lessons, and must understand that it will require much forethought and actual study of the subject as well as prayer concerning it to be in any measure successful. There are many good books on the subject of child culture: a list of a few of the best will be given at the end of this lesson. Our Country's Need. General Pershing, when he first took command of the American troops, is said to have remarked that the American lad of today would have to learn two things: to hold a gun. and to obey. The success or failure of the stupendous undertaking of our nation today will depend as always upon the character of the men and women of our country. Have they learned first to love the truth? If so, they are encore to do all in their power even to giving the last drop of their blood to prevent the continuation on earth of a great social human error. Have they learned in their youth that obedience to law, to order, to those who hold righteous authority. is the means of securing the greatest peace and happiness? If so, then it will be no task to be one of a great unit fighting for human liberty. Have they learned the full meaning of integrity to their religion, to a cause, to their nation, to their family or friends?  then in this great national crisis will our boys be found loyal and true to the first and last call of duty. QUESTIONS. 1. What is meant by a man's character? 2. What is your opinion of a woman who thinks her mother's duty clone if her child is clean and well fed? 3. What is the greatest duty a parent owes to his child? 4. In your opinion, which traits of character are strongest, those the child inherits, or those he has acquired through his environment? 5. In he tendencies what has way may a child's home influence counteract the inherited? 6. What is your opinion regarding wealth as a factor in the formation of character? 7. Tell why love, appreciation, and comradeship, are the necessary foundation stones each parent must use in character building. 8. What are the essential traits of a perfect character and why are they so? 9. How may parent or guardian train a child to the best possibilities of his nature? How may this great lesson be learned? BIBLE LESSON FOR NOVEMBER. "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom. Seek learning by study, and also by faith." Bible, 1st. Luke, chap. 1; 2nd, Luke, chap. 2; 3rd, John, chap. 1; 4th, John, chap. 2; 5th, John, chap. 3; 6th, John, chap. 4; 7th, John, chap. John, chap. 19; 8; 8th, 11th.John, John,"chap. chap. 11; 20;9th, 12th,John, chap. chap. Matthew, 12; 10th, 25; 13th, Acts, chap. 1; 14th, Acts, chap. 2; 15th, Acts, chap. 3; 16th, Acts, chap. 4; 17th, Acts, chap. 5; 18th, Acts, chap. 6; 19th, Acts, chap. 7; 20th, Acts, chap. 9; 21st, Acts, chap. 10; 22nd, Acts, chap. 16; 23rd, I John, chap. 1; 24th, I John, chap. 2; 25th, I John, chap. 3; 26th, I John, chap. 4; 27th, I John, chap. 5; 28th, II John, chap. 1; 30th, III John, chap. 1. USE THE PRESSURE COOKER It is cheaper than keeping poultry, hogs, sheep or other animals, which require feeding on expensive grain and other food during the cold weather. As fast as your fruit jars are empty, put up your meat. PROF. O. G. BENSON, says: "I do not like the wash boiler method. I wouldn't like it even if it were safe, because the long process, aside from rendering the meat tasteless, requires such a lot of fuel." Decayed fruits and vegetables make rich soil, but not rich farmers. The use of the Pressure Cooker avoids waste. Recommended by the UATH STATE COUNCIL OF DEFENCE and the RELIEF SOCIETY. ONLY A FEW LEFT MAIL ORDER AT ONCE TO Consolidated Wagon & Machine Company Utah - Idaho - Wyoming - Nevada COLUMBIA GRAFONOLAS and Double Disc Records The mechanism, style, finish and every detail of the COLUMBIA products are as near perfection as possible. Let us send you catalogue of Machines and Records. We can arrange terms. FURNITURE  CARPETS RUGS RANGES GOCARTS, Etc FURNITURE of QUALITY Co-op. Furniture Company s.h Lake cay, uuh W. N. WILLIAMS. Supt. TWO BOOKS When WE make your Portaits, Family Record of Temple Work jor the Dead. A simplified form, with YOU get the correct style, excomplete instructions for properly excellence and satisfaction cording this work. L. D. S. Family and Individual Record Arranged specially for recording in a most desirable and concise form, important events in the lives of the members of the Church. These books are The Thomas sold at $1.25 each.