[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: NATIONAL COUNCIL | Author: Unknown]

NATIONAL COUNCIL
OF WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES.
	[Submittad for the approval of the
National Organizations and the Local
Councils affiliated with the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States.]
	Preliminary Program for the Annual Ex-
ecutive Session of the National Council of
the Women of the United States, October
25, 26, 27 and 28, 1897, at Nashville,
Tennessee, under the auspices of the Wo-
man’s Department of the Tennessee Cen-
tennial and International Exposition.
Monday, October 25, 9:30 a. m. Meeting
of the Executive (open only to Officers of
the National Council, Presidents and Dele-
gates of the National Organization and of
Local Councils affiliated with the National
Councils, members of the Cabinet and
Patrons.)
	Programme for Business Meeting, October
25, 9:30 a. m. 5 minutes: Roll call of
Association and Local Councils affiliated
with the National Council. 5 minutes:
Minutes of last Executive Session read by
the Recording Secretary. 5 minutes:
Annual financial statement by the Treasur-
er. Discussion upon the following ques-
tions: (1) Shall the next Triennial, which
is to be convened in 1899, sit in two houses?
(2) Upon what basis of representation may
Councils embracing two or more states be
admitted into the National Council? (3)
Shall the National Council employ an
organizer for constant work in the field in
organizing Local Councils? (4) shall a
Committee of Information be formed whose-
function it shall be to correspond with the
officers of the National Association not yet
affiliated with the Council, to the end that
an opportunity maybe secured to communi-
cate information respecting the Council to
such associations?
	Monday, October 25, 3 p. m. Formal
Opening of the Council. 5 minutes: Silent
prayer. 5 minutes: Address of Welcome
by the Chairman of the Convocation Com-
mittee, Margaret J. Weakley. 5 minutes:
Response by the Vice-President at Large of
the Council, Rev. Anna H. Shaw. 5
minutes: Announcement of Local arrange-
ments made by Convocation Committee of
the Woman’s Department of the Tennessee
Centennial and International Exposition.
GENERAL SUBJECT.
	The Work of Local Councils. Ten
minute reports from each of the following
Local Councils represented by President or
Delegate: Portland, Maine; Akron, Ohio;
Indianapolis, Indiana; Providence, Rhode
Island; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Quincy,
Illinois; Memphis, Tennessee; Cleveland,
Ohio; Maryville, Tennessee; Bloomington,
Indiana and all other Local Councils affili-
ated with the National Council.
	Address, 30 minutes: How may Local
Councils more efficiently co-operate with
Municipal Governments? Discussion on
the address. Participants limited to five
minutes each.
RECEPTION MONDAY EVENING.
	Tuesday, October 26, 9:30 a. m. Ten
minute reports from such of the following
National organizations affiliated with the
Council as are represented by a President or
Delegate: National Christian League for
the Promotion of Social Purity. National
Free Baptist Woman’s Missionary Society.
The Florence Crittenden Mission. Ameri-
can Anti-Vivisection Society. The Nation-

[Column 2]
al Council of Jewish Women. National
Woman’s Christian Temperance Union.
Woman's Foreign Mission Union of Friends.
	Address, 30 minutes: Opportunity and
Obligation of the National Council to Pro-
mote the Growth of Religious Unity. Dis-
cussion of address: Participants limited to
five minutes each. Tuesday, October 26,
3 p. m. Ten minute reports from such of
the following National organizations as are
represented by a President or Delegate:
Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement
Association. Illinois Industrial School for
Girls (National Character) Wimodaughsis.
National Woman’s Relief Society. Nation-
al Association of Women Stenographers.
Ladies of the Maccabees.10 minutes:
Special report of Delegate to the Annual
Session of the National Council of Women
of Canada, held at Halifax in June.
	Address, 30 minutes: Improved Dress,
Annie White Johnson, chairman of the
committee on dress, followed by illustrated
exhibit in charge of Madame Manvell.
	Tuesday, Oct. 26, 8 p. m. Ten minute
reports from the following organizations
represented by a President or a Delegate:
National American Woman Suffrage
Association. Woman’s Republican Asso-
ciation of the United States. National
Association of Loyal Women of American
Liberty. Woman’s Relief Corps of the
Grand Army of the Republic.
	Address, 30 minutes: The Relation of
the National Council to National Govern-
mental Affairs.
	Address, 30 minutes: The National
Council as an Agent in Promoting National
Patriotism. Report of the Conference of
the International Council held in London
in July.
	Address, 30 minutes: The Relation of
the International Council to International
Governmental Affairs. Wednesday, Oct-
ober 27, 9:30 a. m. Ten minute statements
by each member of the Cabinet present.
Subject: Her own Conception of the Sig-
nificance and Scope of the Work belonging
to her own Portfolio.
	Address, 30 minutes: How may Patrons
be Rendered Helpful in the Diffusion of
the Council Idea? Discussion by Patrons
present. Participants limited to five
minutes each. 10 minutes: Report of the
Universal Peace Union.
	Address, 30 minutes: The Council as an
Agent in promoting Peace and Arbitration.
Discussion. Participants limited to five
minutes each.
	N. B.—Wednesday afternoon free for the
enjoyment of courtesies which the Commit-
tee on Convocation desire to extend.
	Wednesday Evening. Reception given
by the officers of the National Council of
Women.
	Thursday Morning, October 28. Meet-
ing of the Executive. (Open only to
officers of the National Council, Presidents
and Delegates of National Organizations
belonging to the National Council, Presi-
dents and Delegates of Local Councils
affiliated with the National Council, mem-
bers of the Cabinet and Patrons.)
	N. B.—This session will be held at the
Maxwell House, which will be the head-
quarters of the Council during the Nash-
ville Convention.
	Special Business: Action upon the
Revised Constitution. Presentation and
discussion of the reports of Special and
Standing Committees.

[Column 3]
