[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: WAYNE STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

WAYNE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference held at Canes-
ville August 24, 1897 in the afternoon,
President Jane S. Coleman presiding. Sing-
ing “How firm a foundation.” Prayer by
Patriarch F. W. Young. Singing “What
was witnessed in the heavens.”
	Prasident. Jane S. Coleman said it afford-
ed her much pleasure to meet with the
brethren and sisters in Relief Society con-
ference. She had lately visited the local
branches of the Relief Society in the west-
ern part of the Stake, all were feeling and
doing well and were energetic in their
labors. Encouraged the sisters to attend
their meetings, especially the monthly testi-
mony meetings, and advised the young sis-
ters to attend also, that a bond of friendship
and good feeling should exist between the
Y. L. M. I. A. and the Relief Society by
mingling together; good advice can be
given, virtue taught and much good
accomplished. Spoke of looking after the
poor and the necessity for the members to
give temporal aid (donations) that the presi-
dent may have the necessary means at
hand to carry out what is required of her.
Wished the sisters to be more interested in
the EXPONENT by subscribing for it.
	Sister Eliza Rust, president of the Canes-
ville Relief Society, gave a good report.
Said all the young sisters had joined and
were members of the Relief Society. They
have a lot nicely fenced and cultivated,
they got a good crop of beans on part of it.
	President Mary A. White reported Giles


[Column 1]
in good condition. Sister Robinson (our
Stake President’s mother) said she had been
interested in the remarks made. She had
visited the Relief Society with Sister Cole-
man and had an enjoyable time. Spoke
upon prayer and the testimony of the Gos-
pel, also upon obeying the Word of Wis-
dom, and gave good advice.
	Sister Mary Ballard reported the Thur-
ber Relief Society in good running order.
Said they were building a Relief Society
hall and had very good success in their
undertaking.
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks spoke well,
encourged the mothers to attend their meet-
ings and set an example for their daughters,
also spoke upon virtue, the Word of Wis-
dom and keeping the commandments of
God.
	President H. M. Hansen felt pleased to
hear the good reports of the sisters and
encouraged them to continue to press for-
ward, and their efforts to accomplish good
would be crowned with success.
	President G. Bastian said he had been
interested in the remarks made, also in
hearing the reports given. Spoke on being
kind to the poor, that the needy should not
think or feel bad to receive from the Relief
Society when in need of assistance. He
spoke to the young, said to be kind to their
parents.
	Bishop Hanks had been interested in the
good remarks during the conference and
appreciated the labors of the Relief Society.
Spoke on prayer and a virtuous life.
	President W. E. Robinson said he felt to
endorse the remarks of his brethren and sis-
ters and was pleased with the reports of the
different branches of the Society. He
always speaks very encouragingly to the
sisters and sustains them by attending the
conferences and giving a word in season on
many good subjects. Conference adjourned
till called. Singing. Benediction by
Elder Joseph Eckersley.
			ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.
BEAVER STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of Beaver Stake held
its conference in the Society Hall, Beaver
City, Utah, Tuesday Sep. 3, 1897, com-
mencing at 10 o’clock a. m. Present on
the stand were President C. D. White,
Counselors M. L. Shepherd and J. F. Tol-
ton, Bishop Geo. Mumford, Patriarch D.
Tyler, Prof. W. G. Bickley, Sisters C. C.
Shepherd, S. M. Dell, President J. W.
Bickley and others. Meeting was called to
order by Sister C. C. Shepherd. Singing
“Hail to the brightness.” Prayer by
Patriarch D. Tyler. Singing “Praise to
the man.” Minutes of previous meeting
read and approved.
	Sister Shepherd felt thankful to see so
many present, still there is a vacancy in
our midst, but we know that our dear
departed President, Sister Tyler, did her
work and did it well. Felt sorry that
through sickness Sister M. A. White was
prevented from being with us. She had
in company with other sisters visited
through the Stake and found a good set of
sisters, all alive to their duties.
	President J. W. Bickley reported the
Beaver Relief Society in good condition and
working unitedly. Invited all to attend
the dedicatory services of the new granery
on the 16th inst.
	Sister E. E. Owen said there was a good
spirit here, and contrasted the condition of
the Saints who own comfortable homes as

[Column 2]
being far in advance of a large portion of
the world.
	President C. D. White felt pleased to see
so many present, no ward is complete with
out a Relief Society. The women of a com-
munity shape its destiny. Said he was very
sorry to have to reorganize the Stake Soci-
ety, and spoke very highly of our departed
president. Did not know whom the sisters
would like for president, desired each one
to write a first and second choice on slips
of paper, and himself and counselors would
look them over during the noon hour and
decide. Made many encouraging and
instructive remarks, and said this was a
good year to store grain.
	Bishop Geo. Mumford said the duties of
the sisters as well as the brethren are great.
There is a place for every one in this
Church, let our Church duties be first.
Spoke on economy, and said we should
give kind advice to our young people. If
we see any a little wayward take them
aside and talk kindly and show them their
danger.
	Counselor M. A. Tolton bore a faithful
testimony to the Gospel and said we
should sustain our officers and the author-
ties. Meeting adjourned till 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “Be it my only wisdom here.” Bene-
diction by Counselor M. L. Shepherd.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting called
to order at 2 p.m. by Sister C. C. Shepherd.
Singing “Glory to God on high.” prayer
by Prof. W. C. Bickley. Singing “I saw
a mighty angel fly.” The secretary read
a letter from Sister Hannah Sorenson, also
one from Dr. Allen of Provo in regard to
Sister Sorenson’s class of work. Sister L.
W. Jones explained why we should have
those lectures.
	Sister S. M. Dell bore her testimony and
desired to be useful. Counselor M L.
Shepherd said the duties of the Relief Soci-
ety were many and varied. Spoke on
economy, cleanliness, training of our child-
ren and the storing of grain.
	Sister Lydia White made a few excellent
remarks, wanted to do all the good she
could. Sister M. E. Murdock spoke very
highly of Sister Sorenson and hoped we
would get her here and be benefited by her
good instructions. Spoke against slander.
	Counselor J. F. Tolton praised the
labors of the Relief Society and the interest
taken therein. Unity brings success. No
unclean spirit can enjoy the benefits derived
from the Gospel. Sister Mary Fernley and
Betsy Goodwin made excellent remarks.
Patriarch D. Tyler spoke of the ability and
talent of Sister Sorenson. Said we want to
advance in knowledge.
	The biographical sketch and resolutions
formulated by the Beaver Relief Society in
behalf of our beloved President, Sister Ruth
W. Tyler, printed in Vol. 25, No. 22 of the
Woman’s Exponent were read by Sister
L. W. Jones and adopted by the Stake
Relief Society.
	Sister Alice M. T. Tanner urged the
sisters to sustain the EXPONENT. Presi-
dent C. D. White spoke very emphatically
in regard to sustaining the EXPONENT,
also spoke highly in regard to Sister Soren-
son’s labor. “We need such instructions.
The sisters have been unanimous in select-
ing Sister Cedaressa C. Shepherd for presi-
dent and we are well pleased with the
choice.” She was sustained and set apart,
but being surprised, was unprepared to
select counselors. Alice M. T. Tanner as
secretary and Emily C. Olsen as treasurer

[Column 3]
were set apart for those offices. President
Shepherd made few closing remarks and
conference adjourned for three months. 
Singing “May the grace of Christ our
Savior.” Benediction by Bishop George
Mumford.
		ALICE M. T. TANNER, Sec.
	P. S. Sister Shepherd having selected
her counselors they were set apart at the
Beaver Stake quarterly conference, Sunday 
Sep. 19, 1897, as follows: First counselor,
Mary A. White; second counselor, Harriet
E. Fotheringham.
MEADOW PRIMARY.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	WE thought perhaps you would like to
hear from the Meadow Primary Association
which was reorganized August 9th, 1892,
with Martha B. Adams president; Isabella
Stott first and Elizabeth B. Bennett second
counselors; Alice J. Duncan secretary, and
Mary H. Adams assistant secretary. There
are about one hundred names enrolled; it is
mostly kept up by the smaller children.
	We hold meetings every Friday after-
noon. The Primary is averagely attended.
We had a Primary entertainment Wednes-
day evening, August 11, for the purpose of
obtaining means to help publish a book
written by Aurelia Spencer Rogers. The
program was as follows: Singing by the
Primary choir entitled “The Primary pray-
er song.” Prayer by Counselor N. M.
Stewart. Singing “Joseph Smith’s first
prayer.” An opening speech by Elizabeth
B. Bennett. Articles of Faith. Song by
Amy and Ethel Bushnell, “I’m not too
young for God to see.” Sentiments by
Lilas Adams, Myrtle Stewart and Ornald
Beckstrand. Music by Mandolin and 
Guitar Club, which played between the
other parts being taken. Bible questions
and answers. Recitation by Amy Stott,
“Angel Guides.” A Swedish song by
Sigred and Emma Pearson. Acrostic reci- 
tation by twenty little girls. A recitation
entitled “John Taylor” by ten little boys.
The Primary Throng by twelve girls. A
cane drill by twenty-five boys. Singing
“Merry, merry children sweetly sing.”
Prayer by H. G. Labrum Sen. The
admission was five cents each for both
young and old. The entertainment was
well attended, the proceeds were $6.75.
Six of the young ladies of Meadow assisted
us in getting up the program.
			ALICE J. DUNCAN. Sec’y.
SALT LAKE STAKE PRIMARY.
	Minutes of Primary conference of the
Salt Lake Stake held Sep. 25, 1897, at the
Assembly Hall, President Camilla C. Cobb
presiding. On the stand with her were
her counselors, Lydia A. Wells and Mary
L. Morris, President. Zina D. H. Young
and others. Meeting opened by singing
“Gladly Meeting.” Prayer by Sister Emily
Hollings. Singing “Little children love
the Savior.’’ Roll called with thirty-one
associations repreaented, the children re-
sponding with sentiments. Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke to
the children for a short time. She said she
felt to welcome them to the meeting, it
filled her heart with joy to see them. Re-
lated a story about Joseph Smith hearing
some children praying for him when he was
in danger. He said he knew the Lord


would hear their prayers and his life would
be preserved. She told the children
to never forget their prayers and God would
bless them. She said she had been a
Latter-day Saint for sixty-one years, and
thanked her Heavenly Father for preserv-
ing her life to the present time.
	Clarence Openshaw, from the 16th Ward
gave a recitation. A motion song was
rendered by a number of little girls from
the 11th Ward. Frank Buckwater from
the 3rd ward gave a sketch from the Book
of Mormon. “Hail to the Prophet” was
sung by all the children. A sketch of
early pioneer life in Utah was given by
Ida Peck of Cannon ward. Song by Annie
Peterson of the 12th Ward. Recitation by
Ethel Snow from Draper. Song by Lizzie
Stringfellow from the same place. A drill
was very nicely rendered by ten little girls
from the 15th Ward, west branch associa-
tion. Recitation by Chloe Brown, from
East Draper. One of Eliza R. Snow’s
poems was recited by May Alder, from the
2nd Ward. Myrtle Bagley from the 10th
Ward gave a recitation. Duett by Della
Seddon and Luella Harold from the 5th
Ward.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder expressed her
pleasure in listening to the exercises, and to
see how beautifully the children were
being trained, and said it was a blessed work
to be engaged in. The children would
always remember their Primary teachers.
Announced that the 2nd Ward would have
a Fair during the week and invited all to
visit it.
	Sister Lula G. Richards of the General
board, spoke in regard to Sister Roger’s
book, said she was the founder of the
Primary and hoped they would assist in
publishing her book.
	President Cobb made some closing re-
marks. After singing “In our lovely
Deseret,” benediction was pronounced by
Counselor Joseph E. Taylor.  
