[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: GENERAL INFORMATION. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

GENERAL INFORMATION.
	For ladies not wishing to stop at the
Maxwell House, comfortable quarters can
be secured at satisfactory rates in private
boarding-houses. Information upon this
subject is volunteered by the Chairman of
the Convocation Committee, Mrs. Margar-
et J. Weakley, whose address is 117 North
Summer Street, Nashville, Tenn.
	The rates made by the railroads to and
from Nashville during the Exposition are
much lower than the rates obtained by con-  
ventions. This advantage is, of course,
available to all persons attending the
Executive Session of the National Council.
	The importance of this Executive Ses-
sion can hardly be over estimated, and it
becomes the duty of each National Organ-
ization and Local Council connected with
the National Council to take its share in
making the session worthy of the Council
and of the distinguished auspices under
which this session will be held. This
Executive Session affords the Council the
opportunity to present what is popularly
known as the “Council Idea,’’ in a section
of the country not yet reached by it; and
before audiences that will be representative
of all that is best, particularly in the South-
ern States. It also gives every member of
the Council an opportunity to present its
particular work to an audience which will
carry a knowledge of it, and the inspira-
tion to be derived from it, to all parts of
the great and growing South. 
	This preliminary programme is sent out
in the hope that the important subjects pro-
posed for discussion may be considered by
Local Councils and, as far as possible, by
members of the official board of National
organizations before the session is convened.
	N. B.—Members of the Official Boards
are asked to consider these matters, because
it will not be possible to bring them before
their respective organizations.  
	For all information concerning the local
arrangements at Nashville, inquiries may
be addressed to Mrs. Margaret J. Weakley,
117 North Summer Street, Nashville, Tenn.
	Members of the Cabinet, Patrons of the
National Council and Local Councils are
requested to address any inquiries or sug-
gestions respecting the programme to Mrs. 
May Wright Sewall, whose address is
given below.
	All other persons interested in the Nash-
ville meeting are requested to address
inquiries and suggestions to the Chairman
of the Committee, Rev. Anna H. Shaw,
Vice-President at Large of the National
Council of Women, and Chairman of the
Programme Committee of the Nashville
Meeting, Wianno, Cape Cod, Mass.
	Rachel Foster Avery, Member of the
Cabinet. Hannah J. Solomon, President
of the National Council of Jewish Women.
Annie White Johnson Chairman of Com-
mittee on Dress. May Wright Sewall,
Member of Cabinet, 633 (new) North Penn-
sylvania Street, Indianapolis, Indiana.


THE three leading newspapers of Nash-
ville employ women reporters. Miss Walk-
er represents the Sun, Mrs. Duncan the
American and Miss Porterfield the Banner.
All are able and do credit to their calling.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


