[Vol56 | August 1969 | Page 590 | Fiction | The Weather Report A. | Dee Applegate]
, the light revealed the toes of her leather shoes, the slender white curve of her calf, her knees and the heavy tweed of her wool coat. Her white blouse offset her pale face. "Mama. "I'm not asleep," I said. "Come 99 99 in. The colors of the dark room made her cheeks look velvet. The light played in the smooth curve of her straight long hair. She was as beautiful as Paul had been good-looking. The oval face, the high cheek bones and almondshaped eyes. I looked at her and remembered him; sometimes I fought memories I could only see with bitterness: the pale skin against the white satin in the black coffin. "Mama." "What is it, Kimberly? Did you have a good time?" She fingered her purse and the ragged game roster in her hands. "Yes, I had a good time." She lowered her eyes. "Shall I turn on the light?" "No," she said quickly. I waited for a moment. My heart seemed to beat faster. I wanted to quiet it. I thought I sensed what she might ask.

[The Weather Report A. Dee Applegate]

And I did not know how I was going to continue to give the same answer without breaking. "Valerie's folks are going to let her go to Rick Johnson's lodge party." I knew it. For a moment I let my eyes focus on the room's hazy light. "Mama." Her voice grew desperate. "Mama, you just can't even know what this means to me." Then there were tears in her throat. "Mama, I've tried to tell you over and over again, there is nothing wrong. Nothing will happen. We are seniors in high school. We know what life is all about. You don't understand. John is frantic that I can't have permission. Do you think I want him to ask another girl? Mama, why? Why, why are you doing this to me? Why?" For a moment her hands trembled, as though she wanted to lower her face and weep into them. But she controlled herself, and knotted a piece of tissue in her fingers. She had told me they would laugh at her.

It was the biggest event of the year: an all-night party in the canyon on Memorial Day holiday, after the parade and the game and the dance— In the Way They Should Go an important affair, the last big party of the season. Only the very elite of the school were invited. She was the cheerleader. She couldn't miss it—not without looking like a nincompoop. John was going and he wanted her to go. The evening would be chaperoned by Rick Johnson's college brother and his gang of alumni friends in town from State for the summer. My voice was somewhere so far back in my throat that I could not seem to make it audible. "im " She guessed my next words. "Just because Valerie Martin's mother will let her go is no reason that I should go. Is that what you're going to say, Mother?" She looked up toward me. The soft light in the room was strong enough to reveal the shimmering streak of tears across her cheek. "Well, I'm not asking that you let me go because Valerie Martin's mother will let her go. I'm asking that you trust me. I'm asking that you will have faith in me." She leaned close to me. "I'm asking you to respect me as your daughter." There was a brief silent moment that did not seem silent at all, but noisy with the furor of my blood rushing against my brain. "Mother... Can't you trust me? Can't you respect and trust me? Can't you?" I could not speak. "Well, can't you?" I had answered all these questions a hundred times. Now there was a flood of tears. ""Mama, I don't think you know what you're doing to me. I'll have to go to that party, Mama. Do you want me to go without your permis- 

591 August 1969

 sion?" She stood now, her hands wringing. "Kimberly, you wouldn't...." Suddenly I sat up and leaned forward. "Kim, please, I know I know how important this is to you. I've told you a hundred times. I do trust you. I do trust the young people. It's not them I mistrust, but the situation. We just don't do that kind of thing. It's not." But my words were a volley of meaningless jargon that grew dim to her ears as she turned and streaked out of the door into the hall, and then into her room. I threw my legs over the side of the bed and sat for a moment staring at the shadows of leaves on the carpet. I could hear the mute, muffled sobbing from her pillows, and my heart leaped inside my ribs. Could I have been wrong? The indecision of that moment tore my soul into frazzled shreds. What was I doing to her and to myself — if she should decide to go against my decision — my better judgment? What would that mean? For her, for me? In that moment I might have gone to Kimberly, put my arms around her shoulders and told her I was sorry; I was wrong, and she should go to this all-night canyon party. But I could not do it. My close friend Olga picked me up at ten. Together we watched the colorful parade and met Kimberly briefly before she went with her friends to a pot luck. She was flushed from marching; her shining straight hair streamed like a wide ribbon away from her smooth forehead. "She's beautiful, popular, in- 592 telligent. What more could a mother want for her child to be?" Olga whispered to me later as the two of us slid under a table at a hotel. "I guess if a mother's going to have to rear a daughter without the father, she had better have a daughter like Kimberly. - You've done so well, Margaret. How did you do it?" Olga had reared three, but all before her husband had died. A I ad I done so well in rearing Kimberly? How did I do it? I knew I hadn't done it yet. I remembered in a flash what was to happen tonight. My eyes met Olga's. Her smile was questioning me. What had Olga told her daughters when they had wanted to go to an all-night canyon party? Did she let them go? "Maggie, you've been awfully quiet. Is something wrong? Is there something I can do?" Olga's eyes brightened with concern. I met her gaze with a brave look. "I I appreciate your compliments about Kimberly, but I. Everything isn't as fine as it looks, Olga." I swallowed hard. "Frankly, [''m so worried about her that I haven't been able to sleep." I got the words out in a stuttering heap. "What is it, Maggie? Tell me. Maybe I can help." I told her everything: my disapproval of the all-night canyon party, the many scenes of disagreement between Kim and myself over it, the scene in my bedroom after the game in which she had threatened to go to the party without my permission. "Maggie, it doesn't even sound like Kimberly." By this time my eyes were glazed with tears and I was staring at my plate and nearly choking on a piece of roll. I "You know, Maggie, you sound almost as though you are afraid of Kimberly. I mean you seem afraid really afraid of." Olga stopped and I watched her eyes narrow a bit as she surveyed me analytically. Afraid. I had never thought of it in quite that way. But yes, I was afraid. My heart stuck in my throat. Kimberly was the one in all the world who had the power to hurt me the most. And I was afraid. I was afraid of being hurt. "Kimberly has to try her wings to grow up." I looked at Olga. Was Olga going to tell me I was wrong. That I should let Kimberly go to the canyon party? "You're not suggesting you don't think " I wavered. "You don't think I should let her go to such a party, Olga. Do you?" I interrupted Olga's train of thought. "What. What? The party? Oh No, the party!" Then she laughed a quick laugh. "No... The party. Margaret, you are absolutely right about the party." I watched Olga's gray curls bounce at the shake of her head. I was suddenly relieved. "Oh, no, you are absolutely right about the party. My Dick would pounce harder on those girls than a cat on a rat if they ever came home with such an idea. No, you've got a conscience and you couldn't live with yourself if you gave your daughter permission to go to such a party." I rested my gaze in Olga's In the Way They Should Go soft brown eyes. The tears started again. Somebody understood me. "You've got to live with yourself first," Olga smiled and leaned forward across her salad plate. "The one to fear, Margaret, is not Kimberly, but God. You have your own salvation to worry about even before you have Kimberly's. You would feel guilty had you not already spent every effort you could have spent to train her up in the way she should go. You have trained her in that way and now you would feel guilty if you were to condone something that was against your better judgment." How right Olga was. She had my answers I had prayed for. "You must hope that you've given her enough background that she'll stop herself from disobedience," Olga continued. Then she smiled warmly and reached for my hand. "She loves you. She _ loves you, Maggie. You're all she's ever had and she loves you." I hoped that was true. How I hoped that was true. "That evening Kimberly came home late after the game. When she dashed upstairs to change her clothes for the dance she did not say a word about the all-night canyon party. The moments passed slowly and awkwardly until John's knock finally shook the door, alternating with a few fisticuffs on the doorbell. "Hello, Mrs. Grayson," he smiled, his white teeth striding his face like a picket fence. "Hello, John..." For a moment I had a wild thought that there might be an opportunity to talk to John—to tell him how 

593 August 1969

 I felt—to insist that he bring Kimberly in by midnight. But there was only a split second of hello before Kim flashed down the stairs looking like a princess. Her hair was heaped in a shining crown set off by small curls around her face. Her eyes were sparkling. Her chiffon dress flew in a rhythmic cloud behind her. "Wow!" John grinned. She really was devastating. "We have to hurry, Mama. John is in charge of getting the band set up. Bye." I had time only to smile and say goodbye. But I stopped them at the door. "Tl be waiting up for you, Kim... Midnight?" I smiled, trying to hide my pounding heart, my own fears. She looked at John briefly; her eyes narrowed and dimmed. It was a cold moment. John didn't say a word. She gave me only one last look. I stood at the door while they moved out quiet- 594 ly, quickly. "Bye," was all she managed. "Bye, Mrs. Grayson," John finally said in a thin voice. "Have a good time," I called after them as they swept down the walk and into the waiting chariot drawn by six cylinders and an infinitely noisy horsepower. The house was quiet and empty when I turned into it. Behind the dining room one of the French screens was caught by a slight breeze and clapped the lawn chair out on the patio. I walked to the tall windows and shut them tightly. The clock chimed anoisy 8:30. I looked out onto. The dimly lit lawn and felt a crushing feeling of loneliness and defeat. Olga's words alone seemed to buoy me up. "The one to fear is not Kimberly, but God. You have your own salvation to worry about even before you have Kimberly's." I Twenty minutes before midnight I closed the covers of the novel in my lap and grew suddenly conscious of the loud clatter of the living room clock above the fireplace. Its usually quiet tick seemed deafening to me. I switched on the television set to fill up the emptiness. But I could not focus on the blur of black and white figures cavorting on the screen before me. I could think only of Kimberly. I remembered how she cried when we could not bring home one of the little beagle pups at the fair eight summers ago. I saw her turn into a flurry of arms and legs when she lost her four-year-old temper at bedtime. I saw her shaking with sobs when [ left her with the baby sitter one important evening. There were many times we had come to grips with one another. And each time we had lost a little, yet gained so much more. We had learned that there were some things we must do, or must not do or have, no matter how much our wants or needs were in opposition. And we had learned that each crisis passes. The music from the television roared blatantly into the empty house. But would this crisis pass? How? What punishment would I mete for disobedience? The usual loss of privileges: no guests in the home, no use of the car? My nerves tingled when I. Tried to relax against the arms of my chair as the clock struck midnight. I strained to hear some commotion in the street, and my throat tightened when I suddenly sensed the crash of a car door shaking the silence. I started. Could it be...? But I stayed fastened to my chair, breathing hard. When the front door opened swiftly and noisily and I heard the brush of Kimberly's soft shoes against the tile in the foyer, I thought my whole head was going to burst with a sense of relief. But I stayed rooted numbly to my chair pretending to be engrossed in the midnight movie. There was not a word of greeting. I heard the shoes scrape across the hall into the kitchen. The refrigerator door opened; the cake pan clattered; a stream of milk gurgled from the pitcher into a plastic tumbler. I waited almost breathlessly while the In the Way They Should Go opening scenes of the old cinema quietly flickered. But deep in my heart I was smiling.