COUNCIL BLUFFS FERRY 1853 
 Mothers in Israel. (Continuation of M. A. StearnsWinters Narrative.) Mother had hired a boy with a steady yoke of oxen to hitch on the lead of our team to help us up to the ferry' on the Missouri river, about eight miles distant, so just before two o'clock on the 5th of June, 1852, we started on our long journey toward the new Zion of the Saints. The wagon with four yoke of cattle and two drivers — the little boy on the lead, and Brother Murie, with a long rope attached to the wheel team, gave an appearance of strength suitable to any occasion. Then came the passengers — foot passengers, of course — -mother, Olivia, Roney and Jimmie Murie, with myself bringing up the rear, thus our outfit making quite a long train of itself. Mother kept as near to the wagon as safety would permit, to look after the numerous things that were tied to the outside. CAMP AT KEOKUK, 1853. 244 RELIEF S0CIETY MAGAZINE. We were all the travelers on the road at that time, as the others had started out earlier in the day, so we had the right of way all to ourselves. When we had gone two or three miles we came to Pigeon Hollow where some of the Saints had built houses and were striving to get means to take them the rest of their journey. They all came out to see who the travelers were, and among had beenthem our was nextgrandma Johnson,at Sister door neighbor Babbitt's Kanesville, but mother. She was up here visiting some of her children. They had been gathering wild strawberries that day and she brought out a few for us to taste, with some bread and butter and a drink of milk and said, "You will need it before you get to the camp ground;" and she also said, "I have been drying some of the seeds to plant, and I will give you some to take with you. If you will plant them when you get to the Valley you will have all the strawberries you need." Here was another friendly surprise to cheer us on our way. Some of the experienced brethren of the settlement gave an opinion that our load was too heavy and that we would hardly be able to get through without lightening it up a little, but Brother Mnrie was more optimistic, and thought we could go on all right. As we proceeded on our way, however, we all began to take notice, and by the time we reached the first camp ground five miles from Kanesville we were all fully convinced that our load was too heavy — and visions of breaking down on the way or losing our cattle were anything but encouraging. Something must be left and what would it be. Brother Murie had just needful clothing, a light feather bed and his provisions — nothing could be spared from these. Our clothing we must have, our provisions must go, and our bedding we could not do without. There was a stove, a nice No. 2 step stove that mother had brought from St. Louis on purpose to take with us to the Valley — we could live without that, and that must be the sacrifice; but to leave it by the roadside when we would need it so much at the end of our journey was not very pleasant to think of. If we had only sold it before we started it wouldn't have seemed so bad. There was a company of Welsh Saints, of fifty wagons, camped near us. They were an independent company and reported to be quite well off. so mother went over there to see if any of them wanted to buy a stove. She found a young family that were not heavily loaded, and were just regretting that they had not taken a stove along with them, and they bought our stove with all the furniture, and paid ten dollars in money for it. Tt would be worth one hundred dollars to them when they arrived in the Valley with it. Then we were left without anything to cook in or a boiler to do washing with. The next dav 1 went hark to Kanesville, with a buggy that sp * k I ii 
 was going that way — to get us a sheet iron camp stove, and a big brass kettle to do our washing with. At the tin shop they had been so busy filling orders that they didn't have a stove finished, but thought they would have one ready by the next day, and as the buggy was going back again, I had the opportunity of going back the second time, and oh, how I did appreciate the privilege of seeing our neighbors and friends once again after bidding them goodby for the second time. The stove was ready, bat the brass kettles had not arrived and I was under the necessity of going back the third time before I could get all we were in need of. As those three journeys to Kanesville were in the company of Brother Oscar Winters and were the beginning of the friendship and love that lasted through life and to be renewed in Eternity, I cannot pass it by unmentioned. We had joined Bishop Cutler's fifty and were the twelfth company organized for that year's journey. Part of them had crossed the river — some of them were at the ferry — and our ten still at the first camp ground, but all ready to start on the next morning. Our team was considered too light for the journey, and another yoke of oxen was furnished us from the company's cattle, but they were young and had not been worked much and there was still the problem of managing an unruly team. Brother Murie proposed that we get a very early start the next morning, and trust to those following us for any help we might be in need of — and we did not fail to be ready. He let three teams lead out to be encouragement for ours, and then he drove into line and the team walked up quite straight and lively and our hopes rose accordingly till we could seem to hear the greetings of our friends at the other end of the journey, but presently they stoppe<l still in the road as if their eyes plainly told that they didn't want to go any farther. The team behind had to stop too, and the driver, a stranger, enquired what was the matter; his team was quiet and gentle. His wife and children sat in the front of the wagon looking contented and happy, but all anxious to continue on their way. Soon our team gave a start, went a few rods and turned clear out of the road. This was a good chance — and three teams passed us without comment, but the fourth man came and helped us drive back into the road again and the team went on for a longer distance than at any time previous. We were now coming to the open ground and the cattle saw the opportunity, started on the run and made a b:g circle like a race track and looked as though they were bound to take the prize. Rrother Murie was still holding on to the long rope and running to keep up with them, with mother /olio wing as best she could to look after the things that kept dropping from the wagon in its wild flight, and I folMOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 247 lowing her, for fear she would be hurt or that she would get sick from her longwalk, and the hot rays of the sun. O, the agony of those hours, words would fail me to depict. Sometimes mother would hold the rope and Brother Murie try to get the oxen back into the road again, and once in wheeling, they wheeled around and came near crushing her between their bodies and the wagon, Brother Murie all the while trying to send us far away from the dangers of the situation. But which way should we turn? We had left the place we called home, and were adrift with strong head winds to encounter, but I will not say we were blown back, for with every lunge of the cattle we made a little progress and the next move they wheeled into the road as if by magic and just missed by a hair's breadth, running off a little bridge over a ravine. After going a few lengths they stopped stock still right in the middle of the road, and refused to stir another foot. Mother advised that we stop right where we were till some one should come along and we would hire them to help us into camp, and then we would have to make some other arrangements before we tried to go any further. It was then about two o'clock in the afternoon — we had been on the move since early morning, were very tired, arid glad of a little relaxation from our strenuous exertions. Bi other Murie still stood at his post of duty near the head of the team while the rest of us sought a little shelter from the sun at the back of the wagon, all watching the road in both directions, for signs of the help we were so much in need of. After a time mother decried a horseman coming toward us — and while this did not portend very promising help, still we waited hopefully to see. The traveler proved to he Brother Winters, and after enquiringwhat the difficulty was, he.dismounted, asked Brother Murie for the whip, and with a gentle whoa-haw. the team started up, and with a little toss of the horns bent their necks to the yoke and walked off in quite a respectable manner. This last stop was about a mile and a quarter from the river, and ffter the team had gone about three-quarters of a mile in this peaceful manner, mother said to Brother Winters, "I believe we can get to the camp now. and will not detain you from vour journey any lon,ger." He replied, "I am not going any farther today, and can just as well drive as not." We were soon at the ex]ge of camp, when he returned the whip to Brother Murie and said, "Now, I think they will go all right, and you can drive your wagon to a place that suits you best for camping." It was four o'clock p. m. when we halted on the bank. Of course, being so late we had to take our place at the foot of the line and be the last to cross the ferry, but we were glad to reach there at all. and thankful for the needful rest we could now have. It was the afternoon of the next day when it came our turn MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 249 to cross the river, and as they had gentle teams to place the wagons on the boat we got along as well as other people at the ferry and we camped a few rods from the landing, that night, on the west side of the Mississippi river. The next day was Saturday and all were counseled to move to the higher land a few miles west, to camp over Sunday. It was cholera times and great caution was needed to protect the health of the emigrants. Our company moved onto a beautiful grassy bluff with trees sufficient for shade, and there passed a peaceful, quiet, restful Sabbath day. Here was to take place the final organization of the company, and after we left this point it would not be safe to travel except in large companies. Mother's strength was failing, she felt that she could not go on as we were doing. Our team had sobered down a little, and with the help of those back and in front of us, managed to get the road some way, but mother could not ride and she was not able to walk and, therefore, decided to hire a team to take us back and try and make a new start under more favorable circumstances. There were several buggies, one horse, and light wagons in the company, and mother tried to hire one to ride in till our team would become steady so she could ride in the wagons, but all were needed by the people who owned them, and could not be spared upon any consideration, but just at the last minute before the start Monday morning, through the intercession of a friend, we obtained the hire of a horse and buggy to take us on the way. We had walked thus far, some of the time in a steady rain, but now the sun was shining, the day was fair and bright, and the thought of going onward filled our hearts with joy supreme, and our souls with gratitude to the Father who had again opened the way before us, and smoothed our pathway. Our team behaved a little better every day, following in the train, and we will not condemn them, nor yet find fault with the driver, for all were unused to the labor they had to perform. Brother Murie being a native of Scotland, was not used to oxen from his boyhood up as were most of the other men in our company, and as the team were to be our companions on the journey, perhaps it will not be out of place to introduce them by name. Die and Darby were their names when they were purchased — Buck and Bright were handed over with their love for the journey. And Brother Murie called the cows Lady Blackie, Lady Milky, and Cherry, and the one that was so very vicious he said Lady Lucifer was the proper name for her, and those were the names they were called by everybody all the way over. It took us two days to reach the ferry at the Elk Horn river, and as we were going up the bank on the west side we saw two graves, one was little Henry Beers about five years old who was drowned on the pioneer journey three years previous, and 
 the other a young: man of 19 who lost his life trying to save the little boy. We had been intimately acquainted with Sister Beers in Nauvoo and Winter Quarters, and the sight of the graves cause<l a wave of sadness in our hearts, and also caused us to keep watch over my little brother Moroni. We made a nice camp that night — pitched the tent which Brother Murie and James had all to themselves and we retired with the prospect of a good night's rest, but in the night a thunderstorm arose and it rained and lightning and blew a small hurricane, and as the storm increase<l i LOUP FORK FEI mother proposed that we should be ready for any emergency. Our wagon stood broadside to the wind and with every fresh gust it seemed as if the bows would snap in spite of us. We tried to hold against the wind, but our strength was puny. Brother Murie had taken the same precaution that we had — was up and dressed and holding on to the tent to keep it to its fastenings. Jimmie, covered up in bed, was still asleep as were our children in the wagon. As the ground was sandy some of the pins pulled loose, and the tent collapsed and buried them in its wet folds. This aroused Jimmie and he scrambled round but could not find his clothes, and it was with difficulty they could get out from under the heavy, wet tent. Mother handed out a big shawl to wrap Jimmie in and they climbed into the wagon, and with our united efforts we pressed against the bows till the storm subsided. Mother fixed a place on the foot of the bed for MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 251 Jimmie and covered him with some extra beddingand the rest of us sat and nodded until daylight, thankful that the Lord had preserved us from the destroying power of the elements. The sun came out warm and smiling as if nothing had ever happened to disturb our peace. The things in the wagon were comparatively dry, and the dripping tent and bedding were ready for the next night's use, not much the worse for their drenching. We moved on up to the Loup Fork and crossed with the rope ferry. In the afternoon we had a chance to straighten and arrange our things a little better, and do some cooking. It took all the next day for the wagons to cross over and as there were not many in camp that were used to working a rope ferry, those who did know had to work very hard. Brother Robison and Brother Winters had worked all day and drank freely of the warm river water, and at night Brother Robison became very sick with cholera, and Brother Winters was the first to call for a dose of the medicine. Before leaving Kanesville, Brother Winters had gone to the drug store and handed the druggist five dollars and told him he wanted some of his best cholera remedies to take with him on the plains — all had been advised to provide themselves with cholera medicine, and mother had a good portion along with her, among other things a quantity of pulverized, sifted charcoal. The day" before we arrived at Loup Fork, Brother Winters brought his box of medicine to mother and said she would know mow to use it better than he did. She told him we had brought plenty with us and he had better keep it himself, but he said, "No, you take it and deal it out to whoever needs it first as long as it lasts." And that night Brother Winters was the first to call for a dose of the medicine he had so recently handed to mother. He knocked at our wagon in the early part of the night and in response to the question, what is wanted, said, "Brother Robison is very sick with cholera, and if you will prepare something I will take it to him for he is in great need and I am going to stay with him through the night." Mother's preparation consisted of charcoal and molasses, laudanum or paregoric, camphor and a little cayenne pepper, with as much raw Hour as charcoal — and it proved to be a good remedy, for all that took it recovered except Brother Robison, and he passed away after two days' suffering, and was buried near the banks of the Loup Fork where he had so faithfully labored to help assist his brethren and sisters to cross that river. Soon after the first call for medicine we heard groaning in a wagon near by, and as there were voices on the outside, mother called to them to know what was the matter and if she could be of any help to them. A young man came over and said, "Sister Pratt, for God's sake, if you have got anything that will help my mother I wish you would 252 REL1EE S0CIET\ MAGAZINE. let me have it— she is very sick and I am afraid she will die." She was a widow and he her only child. The medicine was soon 1 eady and it had good effect on her, for she got easy before morning and soon recovered. Just after midnight two more calls came, they were strangers, but soon found out where there was a prospect of help for their sick ones. All were supplied and got well. Just before daylight Brother Winters made another call for medicine and said, "This time it is for myself. I have been sick for several hours and keep getting worse all the time." He took his portion to his wagon, and by afternoon was much better. There had been quite a scare at the sudden breaking out of the disease in camp but we were relieved that it was checked up somade had favorably, it verywithwetall and but Brother swampy Rob'son. near the river, The heavy rains and many thought that the cause of the sickness and were anxious to move on to higher ground, so twenty wagons including ours started on that afternoon, and camped in a beautiful place to wait for the rest to broke horses come from up. About the herdtwoando'clock ran offtheandnextthe day some ofcould herdsman the not get them, and Brother Winters and some others whose horses were still there took them and started after the others. Brother Winters was repeatedly cautioned not to go, but thought they would soon overtake the horses, but instead they went many miles and did not get back till dark with the runaways. The exertion caused a relapse and Brother Winters was much worse than when he had the first attack. A number of others in camp were ailing, but not so severe as the first that were stricken, and many predicted that if we did not move on all would be sick. Brother Murie was of that opinion, so we with the twenty wagons proceeded on the next day, and at night camped where there was sufficient water, bounteous grass, but no fuel. Mother had a few pieces of kindling in the wagon and a piece or two of wood she had picked up on the road and when we stopped she told me to look around and see if I could find anything to help make a fire and she would make a large kettle of porridge — we could havesome for our supper and there would be enough for all the sick folks at night and morning to have a warm drink. I searched faithfully, but could not find even a twig or a straw or a dry blade of grass, and from that day to this if there is anything burnable to be had I can find it, no matter how small it is. This was a very discouraging time. The prospect was for the whole camp to go to bed with a cold supper if they were so fortunate as to have anything cooked. But the sick folks — it was too bad for them not to have something warm after the long drive, so we brought out the sheet iron camp stove, determined to do what we could in the cause. Just then a sister came along and ques- 
 tioned, "Where did you find anything to make a fire of in this barren place?'* And when mother told her she replied, "Well. T've got a few pieces in my wagon — not enough to do anything with, but added to yours will help some." This was quite encouraging, so we got everything ready, the thickening stirred and placed water onon the the stove, back of the something hung stove to warmarounda l'ttle, to saveset the the heat, kettleand of touched a match to the kindlings, then oh. how we watched and w.-.ited and prayed that the kettle would boil, and there would be heat enough to cook the porridge. As soon as a drop or two of the thickening woul 1 swim around in the water we put it all in, stirred it up good, put the cover on, threw something over it to keep the heat in and left it for a few minutes, with a hope that it would cook "done." Mother called round to speak to the sickones, and see how many there were, and found many of them very *veak and dejected and discouraged. When we opened up the porridge it had stopped boiling, but proved to be well done, was piping hot, and after adding sufficient milk we started on our lounds of distribution. There were seven that accepted it joyfully, and I believe the surprise, under the discouraging circumstances, did them as much good as the refreshment. And others that we took it to said, "Oh. ('on't give it to us for I guess there i< some in camp that need it more than we do," but mother assured them there was plenty for all of them that were ailing. We had a little of the porridge or gruel and with bread and butter made us a very comfortable supper. And right here I will say that the little sheet iron stove proved the greatest blessing to us on this night of any time on the journey. The next morning mother was awake early — she had saved a portion of the gruel an 1 covered it away carefully, but now it was cold so warming it for she the tooksick our ones. l'ttle fish She oil hadlamp takenanda began the task table cloth of folded inside a larger one and place 1 it on the projection^ of the wagon and placed the cups of gruel in the folds, not in cold storage, but in warm storage as it were, as fast as she got them warm till they were all ready. Then she roused me up to take them to the people — these were mostly sisters — only two of the men folks of this camp had been taken sick. This was a greater surprise than the night before, and tears filled some of their eyes as they enquired how it had happened, and some of them afterwards told mother that they believed that those warm drinks were the means of helping to save their lives. Now this had been a sick, a sad and a sorry time in our little camp, but T am glad to say that all recovered, and after that there was not a day's sickness of that kind during the rest of the journey. ( To be concluded. ) (Note: The illustrations used are taken from The Route from Liverpool to Salt Lake City, printed in 1853.)