EDITORIAL . Motto  Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. IV. AUGUST, 1917. No. THE BATTLE IS ON. The heart of a mother is a sensitive container in O Dread, which all elements meet, mix. or separate in O Fear! bewildering complexity and with lightning changes. Now that war is actually upon us, and our sons  our splendid, half-matured, carefully guarded and prayerfully reared sons  must needs answer their country^ call, we mothers swim in a sea of faith, fear, doubt, loyalty, anxiety and invincible courage, which deadens the senses to the common-place and which frames every trifle in the halo of uncertain divinities. It is no use for calm and serious fathers, for They Will Go! sonless mothers, nor for philosophical unmarried women to advance logic and to expound theoretical possibilities of safety and security. Our sons will be called, and many of them will go: the flower of our fields and farms, our schools and colleges, of our homes and our state. The incorrigibles. the cowardly, the idle, the vicious  these will elude and escape the call by strategy and by unfair methods. But our boys  our clean, pure, brave, true young "Mormon" boys  these will be chosen by the thousands. True, we mothers may well comfort the lonely, sonless 
 wives and unmarried maids whose deepest sorrow is that they have no son to send. But you and I well, our hearts are strung on the quivering harp of death in life or life in death. Where is our help? When they go, my mothers, these sons of The Dangers. ours, O let us pray that they go as on a mission, as soldier? of the Cross. Tt is not death we fear  we Latter-day Saint mothers  death is a clean sorrow. But we know  for we see daily  the temptations that crowd the tents of the soldier boys. The filthy weed, the glass of vile intoxication, the unclean camp followers, the long absence from pure home surroundings  the veiled temptation of word and sneer  ah, these are the substance of our fears These, our young sons, are still so young! Yet, shall we falter? No, never. Not while Who Calls? the banner of liberty is unfurled, nor while oppression and tyranny seek to destroy this Nation. We women cannot fight  and yet who may tell? Women may yet fight as they did in the ancient days. But we have done one part, we have made our sacrifice. When our boys go, let them find us willing and brave, glad to be the mothers of soldiers. Our Country calls! Unto Him who has permitted all these things Our Help to come to pass we will offer our daily pray God!  We will find Him, for He is always on our way, and He will take from us the sting, the fear, the doubt, leaving with ns that beautiful courage which trusts in the ultimate Good. Calmly we may then go about our tasks, daily ministering to the poor, the dependent and the discouraged. If you are depressed, cheer up a sadder heart. If you are lonely, visit the sick and despondent. Forget self! Pray for our boys  not yours alone  but mine and of ours. Let us link around these soldier boys a chain of loving, daily prayer that shall guard them from ignoble death, unnecessary suffering, and from all uncleanness. Thus guerdoned they shall go forth as did Helaman's sons, two thousand of them, who went into that righteous war against the wicked Lamanites and unscathed, returned, because of their mother's prayers, unharmed. The Master, who counts the hairs of outcome, Let Us heads and who watches the sparrow's fall, Be At Rest. will not leave us nor our sons. They have been born under the covenant of the priesthood and they have a clear right to the protecting care of that priesthood. We have nothing to fear but our fears. Our sons will carry the gospel message into lands and climes never before visited by our elders. They will preach the gospel of EDITORIAL. 463 Christ by their clean habits, their devotion to duty, and by their occasional spoken testimonies. Ah, that brings light to our eyes, comfort to our souls. These thousands of choice young men will be sources of inspiration and hope to whole battalions. We do not fear death for them  why should we. It is but going from this earth-room to heaven's halls. They will return, most of them, as clean and pure as when they left, and will be like gold seven times purified. Up With Sisters, Let us sing Zion! The Flag. WHAT OF OUR ARMY BOYS? We are glad to give place to the following communication sent to Airs. Emily S. Richards from the National Suffrage Headquarters in New York: Columbus, Ohio, 182 Tenth Ave., June 5, 1917. President Utah Suffrage Council of Women, Dear Madam  All the women of the world are this day confronted by the same vital question. Are we willing to give our sons to the Army unless we have assurance that they shall not pass through temptations and conditions worse than death before reaching the field of conflict, shall not lie in training camps that train the souls for the bottomless pit before they reach the trenches? At a meeting of 2,000 persons, called together by the Chamber of Commerce of Columbus, Ohio, on the eve of registration, to listen to speeches arousing enthusiasm, the enclosed resolutions were passed unanimously. Let the voice of the women all over the country be heard demanding that, as far as possible, the portion of their sons returned to them may be fit to enter the pure homes they are leaving. Then will our loyalty be the greatest. Will you move in this matter in your own way in your state, and will you immediately send a copy of these resolutions to Hon. Newton D. Baker. Secretary of War. Yours respectfully, A. W. Sabine, Chairman Resolutions Committee. RESOLUTIONS. Whereas, We, mothers of men, an called on to furnish our country's fighting force, and Whereas, It has been clearly shown in the experience of the troops on the Mexican border through the repressive measures in one camp, that prostitution was not necessary to the contentment or well-being of the men in the camp, but that, on the other 
 hand, its complete prohibition resulted in greater efficiency, discipline, contentment, and loyalty, and Whereas, It was also shown that segregation and prophylaxis do not minimize the evil, but only the results, and also, that regulation cannot be left to the discretion of the individual commanders for satisfactory solution, but must be made effective in uniform procedure through military order from headquarters. Tli ere fore, Be it Resolved, That we will not consent that our boys be sent to camps where they will meet an evil greater than death; that we will not give up their bodies and souls to the demon of impurity and to the horrors of that surround camp life, and to a disease that blights the life of coming generations, Unless our government, through its Secretary of War, establishes and enforces a clearly defined policy of moral sanitation, making prostitution inaccessible and punishing illicit indulgences on the part of all offenders regardless of rank. Enlist Now. Verona Banks Peterson. "Enlist now! Help your Country!" Comes the cry all o'er the land. Enlist now! Help the needy! * Come join our valiant band. For the Lord has "White Cross Sisters" For those wounded in life's fight. They need your help, or you need theirs To make lifes' burden light. They aid in want, in dire distress, They feed the mind, help souls progress. Enlist now! Join this order of the Army of the Lord! Help spread the gospel message to the homes that need His word. Help clothe the needy children of the armies of the poor. Help drive the demon "Ignorance" away from every door Where children dwell. In Zion, or abroad throughout the world, May we find recruiting stations, May we see our flag unfurled! The Relief Society needs you! Can't you hear your conscience call? There is work for every sister. Come, enroll now, one and all, Be a member of this order of the Army of the Lord. Learn yourself the gospel message. Help the Lord to spread His word! NEW YORK, N. Y. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week In September. ISRAEL IN EXILE ESTHER. (Reading: The Story of Esther, in the Old Testament.) In the story of Esther, that masterpiece of court intrigue, we are given a glimpse of the life not only of an ancient Persian monarch and of his people but also of what is commonly known in biblical literature as the Dispersion and the loyalty of the Jewish people to their race and faith, no matter where they were or under what conditions they might be found. About six hundred years before Christ the tribe of Judah was carried away from Jerusalem and Palestine by Neustadter tribes Nazar, "the of greatest Israel of had the been Babylonian kings." taken captive Already the by Shalmaneser, king of Assyria. Thus the land of the Jews became emptied of the Children of Promise, with the exception of a few vinedressers. The reason for this scattering of the Chosen People was that they had transgressed the laws of Jehovah, obedience to which was a condition of their residence in the land to which God had led them under Joshua. This is how it came about that at the time we are now considering there was scarcely any part of the vast Assyrian Empire, and after that the Empire of Persia, where there were not to be found Israelites who had been taken captive thither from their home land. In the year 536 B. C, Cyrus the Great issued a decree permitting the Jews to return to their native land to rebuild Jerusalem and the temple. Thousands of them availed themselves of the privilege and opportunity, but other thousands of them remained in their scattered condition. Among those who remained in the Dispersion was Esther, with her uncle Mordecai. This, however, was some fifty years after Cyrus had issued his decree concerning the Jews. Such were the general conditions in which the people of God found themselves at the time of Esther. Susa (the biblical Shushan), the scene of the story of Esther, was one of the two residences of the Persian kings. Its name signifies "City of Lilies." The capital was famous for its palace fortress, in the fast- 
 ness among the uplands of Susiana, a mountainous region east of the Tigris at the head of the Persian Gulf. The main building stood on a great platform measuring a thousand feet square. The pillars on which rested the porticoes, thirty-six in number, varied in height from sixty to seventy-five feet. "Spreading far on every side from this amazing structure were gardens, well called a 'paradise.' Huge four-footed colossal, with wings and human heads, flanked all the gates and doors; and flights of marble steps, the stones of which were of gigantic size, supplied the arches worthy of such a building." It was at this place that, in the clays of Esther, the voluptuous Ahasuerus, or Xerxes, as he was known to the Greek-, idled away his time '"among the cool mountain breezes of the metropolitan province, while his generals and soldiers were righting and dying for him in the East and the West." His clothes were the most costly and gorgeous. ''The richest and most brilliant silk was the material. The royal garment was a robe with ample folds and hanging sleeves. The color was purple and the embroidery was of gold. Around the waist was a girdle, and the skirts fell to the ankles. Under this robe was a tunic, also purple in color, but striped with white. On the monarch's feet were high, yellow shoes, buttoned at the front and tapering towards the toe." His head-dress consisted "of a tiara or miter, tall and cylindrical, swelling at the top and ending in a circle broader than the diameter of the cap. ***** Besides the tiara the monarch was also distinguished by the golden scepter and the parasol, the latter being carried either by himself or an attendant. The scepter was a tapering rod about five feet in length and finished at the smaller end with a bulb in the shape of an apple or pomegranate. When the king appeared in public he bore the scepter in his right hand, perpendicularly in front of his person." Also he was on all occasions adorned with gold ornaments and jewels. The Persian monarch was supreme in everything, lie was an absolute dictator. ''Being the representative of the Ormazd, the Persian deity, on earth, his dignity had a celestial flavor. His right to be king might not be questioned. To look askance at royalty was to be guilty of both treason and impiety. The king's wrath was but a reflex of the anger of heaven and his smile was the sunshine of the world. Everything pertaining to the person and life of the sovereign must, therefore, be on a scale of magnificence proportionate to his exaltation." This is why he dressed with such ostentation and splendor. As for the Persian people whom this monarch ruled, the \ had at least one trait in which they might serve as a model for our own civilization. That was their love of truth. It was their national trait, known and praised by the historians of their own GUIDE LESSONS. 467 times. "To ride, to draw the bow, and to speak the truth," says Herodotus, were the three principal precepts of Persian education. Their national god was worshiped as the Father of Truth. ''This element of character," says Ridpath, "was all the more conspicuous in the Persian race when contrasted with the lying and treacherous habits which were shamelessly illustrated in the career of most of the oriental nations. It was only in the later times of the Empire, when the effects of luxury had told disastrously on the moral character of the race, that the Persians imbibed the habit of intrigue and treachery, and even then, perhaps, <mly as employing the same weapons as their enemies. In the early times a rigid adherence to truth was practiced in the affairs of life, from the dealings of peasants and masons to the treaties of the king. Even a promise obtained on false information  or under false pledges was faithfully observed. It is said that the Persian love of truth was so marked as to lead the people to the avoidance of debt. It was conceived that the debtor was frequency placed in such relations of dependence as to encourage in him the practice of equivocation and falsehood. Therefore, it was better to avoid the obligation. Therefore, in the marketplace it was better to use few words and plain. Therefore, it was better, in all manner of communication, to be straightforward in speech, so that human conduct might be easily and sincerely fathomed to its bottom motives and impulses." The status of women in ancient Persia, on the whole, was below that which prevailed among the Jews. Polygamy was practiced, not only by the king but also by the nobles. It was a lower type, too, than had prevailed among the Egyptians at an earlier period. For on the Nile, "long before the advent of Christianity," as we are told by Mr. Gallichan in his recent book. Women Under Polygamy, "society had raised women to dignity and almost to adoration." And he goes on to say that "before we speak of the inevitable degradation of women under a system of polygamy, it would be well to reflect upon the feminism of the ancient Egyptians." But, as I say, the system in vogue among the Persians of the time of which we are speaking was inferior to this. "After the manner of the East," says Ridpath, "the kings adopted the harem as part of their domestic economy. * * * With the early kings a seraglio of three or four wives and a moderate retinue of concubines was deemed sufficient. Of these wives one only held the supreme place, and in contradistinction to the rest was called the queen. She only was permitted to wear the crown, and before her all the rest stood abashed or actually prostrated themselves as to royalty. * * The Persian queen, however, never shared her husband's authority; she had influence, but no power. The other wives  who must always be 
 selected from noble families  had the title of consort, and were thus in some measure superior to the miserable group of concubines below them. It was, however, a sad and dubious pre-eminence, which in its nature could bring neither honor nor happiness to those who possessed it." In the story of Esther we are told how absolute was the power of the Persian emperor over his wives and concubines. For at the great feast, which continued for one hundred eighty days and at which he discussed with representatives from every part of the empire the plans of the campaign against Egypt. he ordered his queen to expose her beauty to the assembled lords, and, when she refused, he cast her aside as an example of the punishment meted out to the disobedient wife, and a year or two later after his defeat at the hands of the Greeks, at Salamis, he chose the beautiful Jewish maiden in her place. Into this life of oriental pomp and splendor, of royalty and strange ways, was the modest Esther thrust by her own and her uncle's scheme for saving their people. And here doubtless she lived till the vengeful former queen, as it is believed, succeeded in her designs upon the life of the licentious monarch. For he died a tragic death in the midst of jealousy and intrigue. QUESTIONS. 1. 1 low was it that Esther was among the Persians when her people had lived in Palestine? 2. Describe the palace at Susa; describe Susa. 3. Describe the king's dress. 4. What is the significance of this? 5. What kind of life did the king live? 6. What trait of character was principal in the Persian character? 7. Does any one trait of character stand out in the American character? 8. Tell of the status of woman in Persian society at the time of Esther. 9. To what extent does revenge enter into the story of Esther? 10. Is revenge ever justifiable? Why? BIBLE LESSON FOR SEPTEMBER. "Oh how 1 love thy law! It is my meditation all the day." 1 5t, Bible, Esther. Chap. 1: 2nd, Chap. 2; 3rd. (bap. 3; 4th, Chan. 4: 5th, Chap. 5; 6th, Chap. 6; 7th. Chap. 7; 8th, Chap. 8; 9th, Chap. (>-10; 10th. Nehemiah. Chap. 1: 11th, Chap. 2: 12th. D. & C. Section 132; 13th. Section 133; 14th. Section 134; 15th, Section 135; 16th, Section 136; 17th. Bible, Daniel. Chap. 1: 18th. Chap. 2; 19th. Chap. 3: 20th. Chap. 4; 21st. Chap. 5; 22nd. Chap. 6; 23rd, Chap. 7; 24th, Chap. 8; 25th. Chap. 9; 26th. Chap. 10: 27th. Chap. 11: 28th. Chap. 12: 29th. loel. Chap. 1: 30th. Chap. 2. GUIDE LESSONS. 
 Work and Business. Second Week in September. LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week Int September. Note.  We are presenting the first lesson in our new course in Surname History. We have met many delays in getting out our book but hope to have it ready later. We suggest that class leaders consult any good general history for this and the succeeding lessons. THE HISTORICAL FATHERLAND AND MIGRATIONS OF OUR ANCESTRY. The student of genealogy is interested in all the peoples of the world. But his interest centers first in his own ancestors. The heart of genealogical work to him consists of linking himself up with his progenitors. Since the Latter-day Saints have a great mission in this work, the question naturally arises, Who are in the main the historical ancestors of the "Mormon" people? Where was their fatherland when they first became a people of history? When the apostles of our Savior in the meridian of times were preaching the gospel among the Jews and other people of the Roman empire, a Roman, of commanding genius, by the name of Tacitus, made a visit among an interesting barbarian people east of the Rhine and north of the Danube. He describes them as of "giant size, fierce blue eyes and blond or ruddy hair," he tells of "their love of warfare, the fury of their onset in battle, the contempt which they had for wounds and for death itself. When not fighting, they passed much of their time in the chase. and still more time in idleness, giving themselves up to sleep and gluttonous feasts. They were deep drinkers, too. and so passionately fond of gambling that, when a man's wealth was gone, he would even 'stake his liberty on a single game.' In some respects we see similar traits in our American Indians. "On the other hand, they had certain attractive qualities not always found even among civilized peoples.. They were hospitable to the stranger, they respected their sworn word, they loved liberty and hated restraint. Above all they had a pure family life. No one of 
 them laughs at vice, nor is it the fashion to corrupt and be corrupted. Good habits are here more effectual than good laws elsewhere." The religion of these people was a kind of polytheism. Wooden, which -till lives in our name Wednesday, Wednesday, wife their chief god, the war god, Thor (Thursday) god of thunder storms and air. Freya i Friday i was the deity of joy and fruitfulness. Concerning their government Tacitus says, "In the election of their kings they have regard to birth; in that of generals to valor. Their kings have not an ahsolute or unlimited power; and their generals command less through the force of authority than of example. If they are daring, adventurous, and conspicuous in action, they procure obedience from the admiration they inspire." Germani I'll., Tacitus. "On affairs of smaller moment, the chiefs consult; on those of greater importance, the whole community, vet with this circumstance, that what is referred to the decision of the people is first discussed by the chiefs. They assemble, unless upon some sudden emergency, on stated days, either at the new or the full moon. When they all think, they sit down armed. Silence proclaimed by the priests, who have on this occasion coercive power. Then the king, or chief, and such others as are conspicuous for age, birth, military renown, or eloquence, are heard, and gain attention rather from their ability to persuade, than their authority to command. If a proposal displease, the assembly reject it by an inarticulate murmur; if it prove agreeable. they clash their javelins; for the most honorable expression of absent among them is the sound of arms.'"  Germania XI, XII. While Julius Caesar wives a brief account of these people in the latter half of the first century B. C. the above extract characterizes the ancestors of whom the "Mormon" people generally are descendants when historians first write about them. These people were called Germans Wehr Mann, meaning war men according to some scholars), or Teutons by the Romans. Their fatherland was bounded in the west by the Rhine and the western shores of Norway, on the south by the Danube, and on the north by the Arctic regions of Norway and Sweden, the Baltic Sea and on the east by the Vistula. Their eastern neighbors were the Slavs now of Russia and other kindred Slavic peoples, and. of course, on the south and west the Romans. Julius Caesars proconsul ship of ten years in Gaul (now France), brought him in conflict at different times with the Germans for he wanted to make the Elbe the eastern boundary. Rut he was unsuccessful in conquering them as he had the Gauls. By 400 A. D.. "the Sunny South (or territory of the Roman Empire) with the wonders and riches of its strange civilization, GUIDE LESSONS. 471 fascinated these savages with a potent spell. For five hundred years they had been striving to enter in and possess it. The pressure of fiercer barbarians behind them and of their own increasing population had produced certain periods of special effort, and sometimes they had burst in for brief periods of plunder. Always hitherto they had been driven out again by some Marius, Caesar, Aurelian, Diocletian, or Julian. About the year 400, in the exhaustion of the Empire, they began at last to come in to stay." The migrations and expansion over the earth of these Teutonic peoples, is one of the most interesting of its kind in the world's history. Beginning in the latter part of the fourth century the Visigoths located in southern Gaul and Spain, the Vandals in northern Africa, the Ostrogoths and Lombards in Italy, the Burgundians in southeastern France, the west Franks in northern France, the Friscians in Holland and Belgium, the Jutes, Angles and Saxons in Britain. West Franks, Saxons and other tribes later expanded their territory eastward till they established themselves in the northeastern territory of Prussia and southeastern Austria first as Mark states against the heathen Slavonic peoples. In the tenth and eleventh centuries the Norsemen (Scandinavians) began their migrations going into England, France, Southern Italy, Russia, Iceland and Greenland, and even discovering America in 1,000 A. D. Hence we are as in Nebuchadnezzar's dream of the great image, the Teutonic peoples like the miry clay mingling with the iron ( Roman government ) in the feet of the image. Out of the intermingling have sprung up the modern nations of Europe. Some of them, Italy. Spam, and France, being dominated more by the influence of the Roman government than England and the other northern European peoples. But the Teutons have given shape to the course of events as we shall see more definitely in the next lesson. Furthermore, when the discovery of America took place they were the principle immigrants to that land. Until 1890 eightyfive per cent of the immigrant population to the United States was of the northern Teutonic stock and likewise, in Canada. South Africa and Australia have also been colonized by these Teutons. The Anglo-Saxons of England, of course, has sent out most of the colonies to these countries in the great European expansion, and we must not forget that in South America is also some Teutonic blood. With this view we can say with George Burton Adams, "the settlement of the Teutonic tribes was not merely the introduction of a new set of ideas and institutions, it was also the introduction 
 of fresh blood and youthful mind  the muscle and brain which in the future were to do the larger share of the world's work. "In our next lesson we shall consider who the Teutons are. QUESTIONS. Who were the Teutons? What were their characteristics? Relate some of their customs. Who were the Scandinavians? What do von know of the Ansdo-Saxons? Literature. Third Week in August. CHILDREN'S STORIES AND STORY WRITERS. Most of our stories for young folk have been produced within very recent years. Before the middle of the last century, there was almost no stories for children except fairy tales. Even Robinson Crusoe and Gulliver's Travels which are now commonly classed among the juvenile stories, were written for grownups. During the past seventy-five years, however, so many children's stories have been written that parents find great difficulty to select those that are most interesting and wholesome. The chief purpose of this lesson is to introduce our mothers to some of the best book companions for their children. Louisa M. Alcott deserves first place among the story writers for children. She was the first to devote her life to this work and the tales she produced have won her first place in the hearts of young people everywhere. The child's library education can hardly be counted complete unless he knows Little Women, Jo's Toys, Little Men, The Old Fashioned Girl, Eight Cousins, and the other charming young characters created by this gifted writer. Her stories are always home-like, natural, true to life. They radiate a sweet, wholesome atmosphere, giving an uplifting effect without preaching about it. Louisa Alcott was born in 1833, in New England. Her father, Bronson Alcott, was a man of letters, and a close associate of Emerson. Hawthorne, and other noted writers of the day. It to interesting in these days to know that Louisa became a nurse during the Civil War. Her Hospital Sketches gives her experiences during that conflict. She died in 1888. Kate Douglas Wiggin is another woman whose fame has been won by her literary work for the young. She was born in GUIDE LESSONS. 473 Philadelphia, but spent most of her life in California in kindergarten work. It was as a teacher of the little folk that she learned the art of telling stories for children. Among her choicest tales are The Birds' Christmas Carol, and Rebecca of Sunnybrook Patsy. Polly Oliver's Profamily, and She others. wrote Her are full of of The Story also tales sunshine, blended with a little sadness that makes them all the truer. They present sweet wholesome pictures of life that are good for young and old to dwell upon. Laura E. Richards is another writer who deserves special mention. Her stories are not of the same kind as those just suggested. She writes mostly short stories for little folk; Five Minute Stories, she calls them, and More Fire Minute Stories. They are just such little tales mothers and grandmothers need to charm the children off to dreamland, when they "cuddle doon at night." The Golden Windows, and Mother's Apron String, are two of Laura E. Richards' stories. Mark Twain can hardly be called a children's story writer, but some of his stories for young people have gained him great fame. The Prince and the Pauper is an intensely interesting tale for boys and girls, too. who are just entering their "teens." Tom Sawyer is full of fun and a very true picture of boy life. It reflects Mark's boyhood days when he lived along the Missouri in Hannibal, Missouri. The Story of a Bad Boy, by Thomas Bailey Aldrich is another interesting book. The boy pictured in it is not at all a bad boy. He is just a natural, wholesome-minded lad, whom it is good for other boys and girls to know. In The Page Story Book, by Thomas Nelson Page may be found some other charming tales from the sunny south, of the us and downs of boys and girls during the Civil War struggle. These stories are true to the times that they picture, and uplifting. Mary Mapes Dodge, whose name was mentioned in connection with children's poetry, deserves double notice again here, because she has given us some excellent stories for children, and as editor of St. Nicholas, she has inspired hundreds of others to create such stories as Hans Brinker; A Story of Holland, is her best known juvenile tale. To sketch all of the other stories and story writers for children would require a volume; we add only a list of the choicest tales, and give a few suggestions which, we hope, will _ tempt those who study this lesson to get better acquainted with the book companions of their children; we have not named our home authors, yet advise our students to use the Juvenile Instructor stories and those in the Primary magazine. 
 TEN OTHER CHOICE TALKS. 1. Hoosier School Hoy  Edward Eggleston, a tale of schoolboys of imager times in the middle West. The late Supt. B. W. Ashton, of Granite District, used to say that this hook had the greatest influence for good on his pupils of all he ever recommended to them. 2. Moiii the Goat Hoy  Spyri. A model, moral tale from Switzerland. This and its companion hook Heidi, by the same writer, are much enjoyed by hoys and girls of about eight to ten. 3. Helen's Babies  John Habberton. One of the sunniest and truest pictures of childhood ever written. Budge and Toddie are two very real children, who are taken care of by their Uncle Harry, while their mother is away on a visit. Both children and. older people enjoy immensely what happens. 4. Little Shepherd of Kingdom Come  John Fox.  me of the best recent stories for boys and girls. A tale of Kentucky during the Civil war. interesting and wholesome. It makes for manliness. 5. Little Colonel Stories  Annie F. Johnston. The Little Colonel is a little girl of the south who wins the heart of her grandfather who has become estranged to his daughter because she married against his will. The Two Little Knights of Old Kentucky and The Giant Scissors are two of the stories that continue to tell the fortunes of the Little Colonel. 6. Old Pipes and the Dryad  Frank R. Stockton. A fancy fid tale, hut sweet and wholesome and charming for children of about eight to ten. 7 Christmas Carol  Charles Dickens. This story, though very imaginative, is wonderfully true and impressive. Tt breathes the spirit of a Christian Christmas. 8. The Perfect Tribute  Mary Shipman Andrews. A historical tale, based on fact, partly fanciful. Tt gives Lincoln's Gettysburg Speech in its setting. 9. The Ugly Duckling  Hans Christian Anderson. A strikingly true tale of fancy, wholesome and beautiful. Children of primary grades enjoy it greatly. 10. Story of My Life  Helen Keller. A really true story of a remarkable girl who has surmounted superhuman difficulties and won an honored place among the world's best women. All of the hooks just named can he readily obtained at the public libraries. The can he purchased for a small amount and they make most interesting reading for any home. We commend these as a good beginning for a closer acquaintance of our mothers with the stories and story-writers of the young. GUIDE LESSONS. 
 1. About when did authors begin to write stories for the young? What stories, suitable for children were produced before this time? 2. Give a brief sketch of the life of Louisa M. Alcott, naming some of her best stories. Why does she deserve first place among the story writers for the young? 3. Tell briefly of the work of Kate Douglas Wig-gin, of Mary Mapes Dodge. 4. Give a choice story from one of the books by Laura E. Richards. 5. Let five of the class members be appointed to give a two minute report each, on five of the ten choice books named in this article. 6. Discuss this suggestion: Tt is almost as important that mothers know the book companions of their children, as that they know their real companions. 7. What stories created by our home authors have you found excellent for children? What can mothers do best to encourage our writers to create more of such stores reflecting our life and ideals? Note: Tt may be well to write the public librarian to join in this discussion. LESSON TV. Home Economics. fourth Week In September. THE CHILD'S RECREATION AND THE PARENTS' COOPERATION. Recreation is the refreshment of body or mind after toil, or any diverting or pleasurable exercise or employment. Recreation is absolutely necessary for the proper growth and development of every normal child and the parent who does not recognize this part of the child's training and provide for it is losing valuable time. The time for recreation, the place, the companionship and the kinds are all important. Beginning with the infant, he is trained to regular habits by giving him his little exercise and play at stated intervals and as he grows older it is still best to have play hours. If a child is allowed to play continuously. 
 be soon becomes tired and cross. The wise mother does not allow this, but by giving him simple tasks, not by way of punishment, she diverts his energies in another direction and joy and contentment are the results. In many happy homes immediately following the evening meal is a favorite time for a romp. One evening each week may be spent by the family when every kind of work is forgotten and play is indulged in freely during the early hours. Place. There is no other place for recreation that can possibly equal the home. Home is where father, mother and all the children are united in making each other happy and in learning those things that will fit them to meet the stern realities of this life. The home that fails to prepare the child to take his part in the community has failed to that extent in its great mission and the hours of recreation are the times when the very best lessons may be taught. Companionship. Parents cannot afford to let the days an 1 months pass and not have time to play with the children. We must be companions to them while they are small or we never can gain that coveted place at all, and in order to do this we must be with them. Many fathers are of necessity away from home a great deal and that places an added burden on mothers but in such cases if father is present with his family only at meal time he ought to make it possible to spend five minutes in play with the little ones before leaving them. Fathers and mothers must not grow too old to pay; the old idea was that mother should play with baby, and there all ended; the modern idea is that father and mother must play with all their babies no matter what age if they would keep their love, sympathy and confidence. Kinds of Recreation. There is no recreation or sport that is good legitimate pastime but we can afford to enjoy it with our children. When they arc small teach them to play games. There are marbles, ten pins and others for the floor, and tiddledy winks, dominoes, checkers, flinch, carry and many others for the table. Tn all games the child must be taught to play for the pleasure of the game and the training he gets but never for what he wins. Playing marbles for "keeps," as the boys call it, should be forbidden by the Latter-day Saint parents, because it is the first step towards gambling. For a boy to keep the marble he wins in a game may seem of little consequence at the time, but watch him as he grows to love the game merely for what he vines and we need not be surprised when in later years he plays for money. Tiddledv winks is enjoyed by parents and children at the same time. The baby soon learns how hard to press the tiddledy on the wink and the proper position of each in order to gain his point. It uses judgment and he also trains his sense of touch, which