SLUMBERLAND What it Means to be the Mother of Twins By Emma A. Brough 'When the twins were born My Pa and Ma looked at them And said, 'Oh pshaw!' The doctor said 'They're boys, I think.' And Pa went out and got a drink. Ma said they looked just like Pa. Pa said they looked just like Ma." For some time after the arrival of the twin boys, this was the little song hummed about the house by the two daughters of the family. Ever since Ellis Parker Butler in the American Magazine, February, 1926, wrote "How it Feels to be the Father of Twins,' I have been looking for some woman to write a companion article on "What it Means to be the Mother of Twins." I am sorry to say that so far I have failed to discover such. An article. I am sure, however, that almost every mother of twins would very much like to express herself on the subject; the big reason, without a doubt, why she has not done so, is that she hasn't had time. Mothers of twins will readily understand just what this means. Now that I have gotten over the rush stage, so to speak (my twin boys, being at present nearly twelve years old, don't need quite so much detailed attention) — although I must say that they are still very much to the front—I am venturing to set down a few thoughts. We are doing only our patriotic duty in helping to replenish the man-power of the nation after the war. The'boys were born December 15, 1918, missing Armistice Day ' by just a month and four days. - E named them Clarence and Lawrence after two splendid young men. One, a Lieutenant Lawrence Evans who was killed in action in France in September, 1918; the other, Clarence Scribner, a fine young man of eighteen years of age, expecting to join the army in the fall of 1918. In June of that year he was drowned near his home in Colorado. You see, as far as those two who were killed were concerned, by the arrival of our twin boys the population of the country was the same the last month of 1918 as it was the first month. The photographs of these two young men (the one in a first lieutenant's full-dress uniform, the other in a cowboy's full-dress umform with his horse) are used by the family as disciplinary measures whenever the twins are inclined to be naughty—which is quite often; the pictures are beginning to show wear. We all take turns in eloquently setting forth the virtues of these young men, telling of what wonderful things they would undoubtedly have accomplished had they lived; and then we point out very strongly how it is up to them (the twins) to see to it that they too get all this done before they in turn pass on. It has a most wonderful effect on the whole household for a time; then things break loose again and it has all to be repeated. I am only hoping that these two photographs hold out until the boys are grown. IME in our home is counted from, before, and after the twins were born. 476 Now, just how does it seem to be the Mother of twins? Well, you see when the doctor told the nurse to get another blanket ready, I couldn't very well go out and "get a drink," as Pa did. I had to stay on the job, so to speak; so I merely gulped once or twice, then went off into sweet oblivion, hoping it would be for a nice little rest before I must wake up to my double duty. As time went on, I must say I agreed with Mark Twain when he said in his "Toast to Babies:" "Sufficient unto the day is One Baby. As long as you are in your right mind don't ever pray for twins. Twins amount to a permanent riot (especially if they happen to be boys). And there ain't any real difference between triplets and an insurrection." We haven't had the insurrection yet, but must say that for about twelve years we have had the permanent riot. We have grown used to it. In fact, if the boys happen to be away for the day or when they are asleep, it actually seems spooky, it is so quiet around here. Lest it should be an insurrection next time, we are staying with the permanent riot. As to praying for twins, Mark Twain was right; but if they happen along without any special prayers, make them welcome. It isn't their fault—poor little tads! You might get to be real fond of them after awhile! EFORE our twins had reached the age of plain speaking, they overheard some of us older ones speaking of the great amount of work and worry they had been. One of them edged up close, and, putting his arms around me, said, "Well, Mama, now you've dot us, you've dot to teep us." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE At that moment I forgot entirely about how much work they had caused me and sensed only the joy of their possession. When one pair of arms encircle your neck from one side, and another pair from the other side, and between the two you are hugged nearly to pieces, both of your cheeks being kissed at once, you are apt to forget every inconvenience and worry, to ignore every aggravating thing, and simply live in the ecstasy of the moment. The parents of twins get twice as much love as do the parents of only one child—but they need it. Twins make you realize you are alive all right; they keep you hitting, all the time, on all four, six, or eight cylinders, whichever class or brand you belong to. That doesn't mean just in their baby days either, but all along until they are grown. N the minds of fathers of twins there may be a question as to which is which, but there never is any doubt in the minds of the mothers. A mother knows absolutely which is Tom, which is Dick. One way she can distinguish one from the other is through their cries. She has ample opportunity to learn this from listening to the various kind of cries from their cradle days: the hunger cry, the peevish cry, the naughty cry, etc. She learns the difference in tone quality and in the pitch of the voice. Twins may look exactly alike to other folks, but the mother can very readily tell them apart. She has them labeled all right. Each has different characteristics and mannerisms—early distinguished by the mother. She is with them so much, day after day, week after week, down the years until they come to the parting of the ways, through MOTHER OF TWINS college or marriage or both, when they are perhaps separated for the first time. One thing I noticed very early about our twins was the difference in their appetites—the way each attacked his food. Clarence was hearty and had a greater capacity than Lawrence, who was rather dainty in his manner of taking his food. Clarence was bigger and stronger but not any more lively than Lawrence. This is still true of them. When I put them in their crib side by side, Clarence would always finish his bottle before Lawrence. He would then slyly reach over and take Lawrence's bottle and calmly proceed to enjoy the contents thereof. I always knew at what point of the meal this happened. How? From the howls set up by the other one. After this happened a few times, I put one in each end of the crib. O*XE thing that used to annoy me a great deal was when people who came to see me—and the twins—would say, "It isn't much more work to take care of twins than it is to take care of one baby, is it?" I always felt like walking out and leaving them to it for a day or two. This expression nearly always came from people who had never had a child, or from some one who had one child. Until the twins were a year old I was constantly on the job; then I began to ease up a little. What kept me busy I need not tell here. Every mother who with little or no help has taken care of her family and home will know. Many times I was so tired that I would fall asleep if I sat down for a few minutes, regardless of who might be there or what I was doing. Especially was this true after we all 477 had the "flu." It will long be remembered that the latter part of 1918 and the early part of 1919 was the great "flu" year. We all came through safely; but oh! How tired I was for a long time afterwards. One night I picked up one of the babies, who was crying, from the crib and put him in bed with me to feed him. I was so sleepy and worn out that I did not notice I had picked him up the wrong way —his feet were to the breast and his head down, and I wondered for quite a while why he howled so. Of course I know it isn't accord- —____—, Lawrence, (left); Clarence, (right); when they were ten months old ing to Hoyle or Holt or even McCullom to take up a baby to feed it during the night. It should behave itself nicely and sleep until 6 a. M. But when you have two babies "to onct," as Aunt Het says, they don't always do as McCullom or Holt would have them. That lady from Boston (or was it Portland, Maine?) who urged all mothers to strike for an eight-hour day, didn't know anything about twins, 478 A relative of mine, who is the mother of twelve living children, among them twin girls, has an older sister who was married but had never had a child. This sister used to visit her very often, telling her just how she ought to rear her children (just as all these childless individuals can do). One day, becoming exasperated after so many criticisms and suggestions, this mother turned to her sister and said, 'Well, Sarah Ann, if you know so much about it, I'll take your job and you can take mine for a week and I'll see how you do The Twins (when they were ten years old) with their mother it." Sarah Ann soon found an excuse for leaving. On another day these same sisters were discussing the resurrection of the dead. Sarah Ann said she believed that a lot of good people (like herself) would not be compelled to stay in the grave very long, but would be brought forth much sooner than some other folks. To which the mother of twelve (among them twins) replied, "Well, when I die, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I mean to rest, just sleep a long long time, before the resurrection. If any one dares to awaken me before I am ready, he had better look out." | M R. BUTLER says, "Twins arrive like a Charleston earthquake. They are likely to happen anywhere on the earth's crust, but are not expected in advance." There are exceptions to this rule. I always had a feeling that twins were in my life plan. My husband and I both came from large families. His mother had twelve children, including twin girls. My mother had eight children, including two pairs of twins. If there is anything in heredity, we could not very well expect to escape having them. However, this fact did not worry us before we were married, as it did one. Young man I used to know years ago. He had been courting a girl, a splendid young lady, for about two years. Everyone expected them to get married, when suddenly he quit his sweetheart and started to take out another girl. His explanation was that although he loved the first girl very much, he couldn't marry her because he had found out that her mother had twins and he didn't want any twins in his family. The girl was quite broken-hearted about it, but he was firm in his conviction. He married the second girl and le and behold the first great event in their married lives was the arrival of twin girls. The first girl married another man and she never - had twins. "But for all their pounding racket And their muddy, soggy shoes, Life without them hath been stripped Of half her joys. MOTHER OF TWINS WINS do teach you a lot of things you didn't know before. They also teach you to do things you didn't know how to do before. They teach you to be sympathetic, to be courageous, to be tolerant of other people's ways, to eliminate trifles, and stick to the things that must be done. Every one has perhaps heard of the little boy who said— "When Auntie came to visit, A year ago or two, She always knew exactly What little boys should do. Then mother dear would worry, And daddy would get mad; For though I tried the hardest I always acted bad. But Aunt no longer keeps us - On needles and on pins, She lost a lot of wisdom Since God sent her the twins." Having the twins has made every thing seem different. I will say 479 with Fanny Kilbourne, ""Now when I see a girl or woman pushing a mere single baby carriage she seems like a carefree amateur with absolutely nothing on her brain but her marcel wave." We have had three single children besides the twins, two girls, twelve and eighteen, and a boy sixteen. You see my husband has one more to help him in his work than I have, having three boys. If it were not for worrying about that insurrection Mark Twain tells about, I should like to add another girl to the family. M Y experience as a mother of twins is that it is much more comfortable and much easier to get your children in single than in double doses. But as it fell to my lot to get the double as well as the single, I'll say with the poet— So let's put our arms around them, Join in their fun and grief; May God bless and keep our happy Mad cap boys." Mrs. SusAN PRINCE PRISBREY AND THREE Pairs oF TWINS Mrs. Prisbrey, a_ resident of Washington, Utah, is the mother of twelve children, eleven of whom are living. The three pairs of twins, in succession are the youngest, and they are all well and healthy. They are Rex and Max, age 8; Irene and Eugene, age 2; Merrill and Ferrill, age 6. The picture was taken when the babies were six months old.