[Vol5 | February 1918 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Dept Patriotic Department Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams]
By  Mrs.  Clarissa  Smith  Williams. 
Red  Cross. 
Occasional  inquiries  come  to  this  office  for  information  con- 
cerning the  forming-  of  Red  Cross  Relief  Society  Auxiliaries.  We 
should  suggest  that  such  inquiries  be  addressed  to  Airs.  Clarissa 
Smith  Williams,  Chairman  of  the  Red  Cross  Committee. 
Patterns  and  Yarn.  , 
All  patterns  for  Red  Cross  articles  and  yarn  for  knitting  will 
be  furnished  at  County  headquarters  or  through  the  Mountain 
Division  Red  Cro.ss,  14th  and  Welton  Streets,  Denver,  Colorado. 
Surgical  Dressing. 
The  Surgical  dressings  class  conducted  in  our  rooms,  under 
the  direction  of  Mrs.  Rathvan,  graduated  a  number  of  intelligent 
young  women  who  will  be  available  in  good  time  for  class  work 
in  other  parts  of  the  State. 
Our  Delegates  at  the  Washington  Convention. 
Mrs.  Clarissa  Smith  Williams  and  Mrs.  Emily  S.  Richards, 
who  represented  the  Rel'ef  Society  in  the  National  Coun- 
cil of  Women,  were  received  with  friendly  consideration 
on  reaching  Washington,  by  Senator  Reed  Smoot  who  had 
reserved  rooms  in  one  of  he  new  hotels  of  the  city.  The 
ladies  were  treated  with  great  consideration  and  kindness  by  all 
members  of  the  Council,  from  Lady  Aberdeen  to  the  last  member 
present.  Especially  cordial  was  our  old  friend,  that  charming  and 
efficient  suffrage  worker,  Mrs.  Rachel  Foster  Avery,  the  special 
protege  of  Susan  B.  Anthony.  Mrs.  Kate  Waller  Barrett,  another 
delightful  and  genuine  friend  and  now  one  of  the  vice-presidents 
of  the  Council,  was  also  extremely  cordial  arid  helpful  to  the  la- 
dies. 
In  Mrs.  Williams'  five-minute  report  she  conveyed  to  the 
Council  the  greetings  of  our  ninety-year  young  General  President 
Mrs.  Emmeline  B.  Wells,  the  frienrl  of  Susan  B.  .-Xnthonv,  Fran-

94  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
ces  Willard,  May  Wright  Sewell,  Lady  Aberdeen  and  all  of  the 
old  stalwarts  in  the  Council  and  Suffrage  cause.  A  previous 
speaker  had  referred  to  her  organization  as  the  mother  of  all 
women's  modern  activities,  it  being-  forty  years  old  in  point  of 
organization.  Mrs.  Williams  brought  a  round  of  applause  when 
she  announced  the  greetings  of  the  Relief  Society  which  would 
necessarily  be  the  granchnother  of  all  modern  women's  organi- 
zations, as  the  Society  was  over  75  years  old. 
The  following  famous  speakers  were  on  the  program :  Dr. 
Anna  Howard  Shaw,  Countess  of  Aberdeen,  Mrs.  John  Hays 
TTammond,  Mrs.  Julia  C.  Lathrop,  Mr.  Herbert  C.  Hoover,  Mrs. 
William  Jennings  Bryan,  Miss  Jane  Addams,  Lord  Eustace  Per- 
cy. British  War  Commiss'oner,  Lieut.  Edourd  de  Billy,  French 
High  Commissioner.  Ex-President  William  Howard  Taft,  Mrs. 
Clarissa  Smith  Williams  and  Mrs.  Martha  H.  Tingey.  The  trend 
of  all  speeches  was  the  necessity  of  reconstructive  work  after 
the  war. 
Utah's  Red  Cross  Membership. 
The  Christmas  Red  Cross  membership  drive  ended  in  this 
State  with  the  most  gratifying,  if  not  startling  results.  We  quote 
the  following  from  the  report  of  Manager  John  D.  Spencer  of 
this  State : 
"A  total  of  34,342  memberships  .secured,  evidenced  by  $34,- 
342  collected  and  turned  in,  was  shown  by  the  drive  committee, 
which  held  a  special  meeting  yesterday  afternoon  at  the  Com- 
mercial Club.  Chairman  John  D.  Spencer  and  Secretary  J.  David 
Larson  said  that  the  reports  from  other  sections  of  the  state  would 
bring  the  total  membership  up  to  approximately  65,000. 
"This  concrete  evidence  of  the  signal  victory  over  Denver, 
which  threw  down  the  gauntlet  with  a  challenge  that  it  would 
secure  twice  as  many  memberships  as  did  Salt  Lake  City,  is  nat- 
urallv  the  source  of  much  gratification  to  the  committee.  Ac- 
cording to  latest  reports  Denver  secured  58,283  memberships, 
as  against  Salt  Lake's  34,342.  Measured  by  the  1010  census  the 
contrast  is  even  more  striking.  The  1910  population  in  Denver  is 
given  as  213,381.  that  of  Salt  Lake  as  92.777.  The  quota  fixed 
by  the  national  officials  of  the  Red  Cross  was  10  per  cent  of  the 
population.  Salt  Lake  County's  voluntary  quota  was  25.000  mem- 
berships, the  final  figures  show  nearly  10,000  in  excess  of  that 
number." 
Income  Tax. 
From  \^^  C.  Whaley,  Collector,  Helena,  Montana,  comes  the 
following : 
"You  won't  have  to  figure  out  \o\n  own  income  tax  all  by

PATRIOTIC  DEPARTMENT.  95 
yourself  hereafter.  The  government  is  going  to  send  out  men  to 
help  yoil.  It  will  be  up  to  you  to  hunt  up  these  men,  who  will  be 
■  sent  into  every  county  seat  town,  and  some  other  towns  besides,  to 
meet  the  people.  Postmasters  will  be  able  to  tell  you  when  the 
government's  income  tax  man  will  be  around,  and  where  to  find 
him.  He  will  answer  your  questions,  sw^ear  you  to  the  return,  take 
your  money,  and  remove  the  wrinkles  from  your  brow.  Returns 
of  income  for  1917  must  be  made  between  januarv  1  and  March 
1,  1918. 
"Next  year,  when  every  married  person  living  with  wife  or 
husband  and  having  a  net  income  of  $2,000,  and  every  unmarried 
person  not  the  head  of  a  family  and  having  a  net  income  of  $1,000 
for  the  year  1917.  must  make  return  of  income  on  the  form 
prescribed,  there  will  be  hundreds  in  every  community  seeking 
light  on  the  law,  and  help  in  executing  their  returns.  IMy  own 
district  will  be  divided  into  districts,  with  the  county  as  the 
unit,  and  a  government  officer  informed  on  the  income  tax  as- 
signed to  each  district.  He  will  spend  hardly  less  than  a  week 
in  each  county,  and  in  some  counties  a  longer  time,  very  likely  in 
the  courthouse  at  the  county  seat  town.  My  office  wall  in  due 
time  advise  postmasters  and  send  out  notices  to  the  newspapers 
stating  when  the  officer  will  be  in  each  county. 
"It  may  be  stated  as  a  matter  of  general  information  that  'net 
income'  is  the  remainder  after  subtracting  expenses  from  gross 
income.  Personal,  family  or  living  expense  is  not  expense  in  the 
meaning  of  the  law.  the  exemption  being  allowed  to  cover  such  ex- 
pense. 
"Practically  every  farmer,  merchant,  tradesman,  professional 
man  and  salary  worker  and  a  great  many  wage  workers  will  be 
required  to  make  return  and  pay  tax. 
"The  law  makes  it  the  duty  of  the  taxpayer  to  seek  out  the 
collector.  Many  people  assume  that  if  an  income  tax  form  is  not 
sent,  or  a  government  officer  does  not  call,  they  are  relieved  from 
making  report.  This  is  decidedly  in  error.  It  is  the  other  way 
round.  The  taxpayer  has  to  go  to  the  government  and  if  he 
doesn't  within  the  time  prescribed,  he  is  a  violator  of  the  law, 
and  the  government  will  go  to  him  with  penalties."
