“OBEDIENCE.” 
	God formed the body and spirit of men and
women. He breathed into us the spirit of life,
hence we should obey Him.
	O, Israel what doth the Lord require of 
thee, but to fear the Lord thy God, and to keep 
His statutes, He commands us to believe, and 
why? that we may be saved. 
	A child of God is delighted to obey, hence,
“I have rejoiced in the way of his testimonies
as much as in all riches.” A king is made
happy in the obedience of his subjects. Parents 
are honored by the obedience of their child-
ren. We like to see children manifest affection 
toward their parents. If a child loves its
parents it should be manifest in its obedience
to their wishes. An obedient child does honor
to the parents, to its teachers and should be the 
pride of home and the schoolroom. ‘‘To obey
is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the
fat of rams.” “Honor thy father and thy 
mother, that thy days may be long inthe
land,” is the voice of the word of God.
	The Savior says, “Not my will but Thine be
done.” This we call obedience. A carnal 
heart is willing to render obedience as long as 
it will serve selfish ends, it goes no further, but
true obedience is the forsaking of our own 
wishes, to the will of our parents while under
their care and to our God always. God com-
mands perfect and absolute obedience to His 
will. Obedience is no framer of excuses, don’t
dispute, argue, and reason, but obeys the will
of God forever.
	“Sir,” said the Duke of Wellington to one
of his officers, “I did not ask your opinion, I
gave you my orders, and I expect them
obeyed.” Such should be the obedience of 
children to their parents. The best obedience
is a willing and cheerful one, this kind of a 
spirit is as sweet as honey. A little boy once 
said, “I wish I could mind God as my little
dog minds me, he always looks so pleased to 
mind me, and I don’t want to mind Ma.”
Shall the poor little dog thus obey his master, 
and our children rebel against their parents
and God? I hope not. 
	JANE JOHN.
Provo, Utah.


Surely happiness is reflective, like the light
of heaven; and every countenance bright with
smiles and glowing with innocent enjoyment is
a mirror transmitting to others the rays of a
supreme and ever shining benevolence.—
Washington Irving.


