THE OREGONIA.
CANTO FIRST.
Slow sinks the orb of day, but ere his beams
Of purest crimson vanish to illume
Another world, his parting lustre streams
Along the wooded height where greenly bloom
The buds of Autumn, while the emerald plume
That heavenward points from Nature's temple, bends
Glory's sea—and wood and crag assume
Each heavenly tint that evening kindly leads,
Till in one lovely scene, Earth's wildest beauty bleeds. 

Upon this pine-clad cliff I sit me down
In Nature's mighty presence; round me rise
Perennial snows that soft and coldly crown 
The rock-ribbed palace of Eternity's
Untrodden realm, mingling with azure skies
Its icy dome; while o'er the heights I scan,
A solitary eagle proudly flies,
As if to mock the vanity of man
Whose pride can not e'en tread where lesser natures
can.

Speed on majestic stream! eternal tide
Of beauty and sublimity, speed on!
Stern grandeur lingers on thy pictured side
And views his form in living crystal, drawn
From purity's untainted snows; upon
Thy shore, crag-crown'd Nature rears her fane
In solemn stillness; as Creation's dawn
Beheld, her mingled beauties still remain—


Time hath not soiled her charms, nor mortal marr’d her 
reign. 
Bright are thy skies—thy frowning cliffs as wild
As ever shaped in Nature’s magic mold;
Thy shores as green as Eden’s garden smiled,
When earth to man her heavenly stores unrolled.
Degenerate the heart—the bosom cold, 
That looks on thee, Columbia, nor glows
With rapture, where the soul may hold 
Converse with Nature, and from her repose,
Guide grateful thought to Him, beneath whose power she
rose.
And I have loved to haunt thy mossy dells,
And gaze upon thine ever-changing scene.—
To pass the hours where Meditation dwells
In woodland stillness, or to deck serene 
Reflection’s shrine with memory’s wreath unseen
By mortal gaze; full oft my step hath trod
Thy shore where human form hath rarely been,— 
Where Contemplation consecrates the sod,
And views beyond the realms of Nature, Nature’s God!

How deep the stillness! ’tis the twilight hour
When gentle zephyr waves her downy wings
And from the bloom of foliage-mantled bower
Where bends the cypress and where softly swings
The laurel’s graceful pendant, kindly flings
O’er slumbering earth her perfume’s balmy spell,
How blest the calm that peceful twilight brings
What reverent awe her solitudes compel,
As pausing Nature hears departing Day’s farewell.

Now heaven and earth are still; celestial night
Hath drawn her curtain’s inky folds, and borne
On dusky pinion, wings her drowsy flight.
No clustering gems her rayless crown adorn—
One star, but one, precursor of the morn,
Looks on the slumbering earth, and in the stream,
That cleaves its rushing course between rock-worn
And mossy cliffs of gloom, its heavenly beam,
Glassed in her running crystal, glows with living gleam.
