DEATH OF MARY ANN PRATT.

   Mary Ann, widow of Parley P. Pratt, departed
this life at her home in Pleasant Grove Utah, at
3:20 a. m. August 24, 1891.—Deceased was the
daughter of Aaron and Susan Frost and was
born at Groten, Vermont, Jan. 14, 1809; her 
father’s family moved to the State of Maine,
where they embraced the Gospel as early as 1835,
Mrs. Stearns was baptized by David W. Patten.
She was a widow then having married Nathan
Stearns in May 1830, by him she had one daughter
who is still living. Her husband died one year
after their marriage. After receiving the Gospel
she went to Kirtland and was married to Apostle
Parley P. Pratt, May 1837, he being a widower 
at the time.
   In Missouri Sister Pratt and her husband en-
dured many sufferings. Their eldest son Nathan
was born in Caldwell Co.
	“Three months later Mr. Pratt was arrested
by an armed mob and taken to prison,
his wife meanwhile lying sick of a fever and not
able to leave her bed. After her recovery she
visited him in prison, remaining with her child-
ren six weeks, in a dreary dungeon. During
this time her daughter Mary Ann accidentally had
her arm broken by the trap door, and at this
supreme moment Sister Pratt, at her husband’s
suggestion, took from the jail a manuscript which
contained much church history and delivered it
to a friend. Thus many important items were
saved for the  church. The deceased was
banished from the State with her helpless child-
ren, while her husband was compelled to remain
in the dungeon. She settled at Quincy, Illinois.
   Brother Pratt afterwards joined his wife and
children at Quincy. They moved from there to
Nauvoo. In the fall of 1840, Sister Pratt, with
her sister Olive, their three children, Mary Ann,
Parley P. and Nathan, started for England with
Elder Pratt, they being the first women among 
the Latter-day Saiuts to go to a foreign land as
missionaries. They made Manchester their head-
quarters, when Brother Pratt established the
Millennial Star.
   On June 1st, 1841, their daughter Olivia was
born. They remained in England two years and
on their return home another daughter was born
on board the “Maid of Iowa,” just one week be-
fore they landed at Nauvoo. They named her 
Susan.
   After arriving home, sorrow visited their
household; Nathan and Susan both died within
a short time. Their next child was a son, Moroni
L. Sister Pratt was expelled with the saints just
after the battle of Nauvoo, and settled at Winter
Quarters—now Florence, Neb. She afterwards
made a visit with her children to her relatives in
the State of Maine, and came to the valley in the


fall of 1852, that winter she spent in this City, and
in the spring went to Pleasant Grove where she
has mostly resided since.  She leaves three child-
ren, Mrs. M. A. Winters, Mrs. B. W. Driggs, and
Moroni L. Pratt, and a host of relatives and
friends, who will miss her society, companionship
and advice.
    Sister Mary Ann Pratt was quite a historic
character and her reminiscences of the wander-
ings and journeyings of the Church would be of
great interest were they written up in detail, as
they were often graphically related by herself to
her children and acquaintances.


