LETTER FROM MEXICO. 

			Colonia Diaz, Mexico.
	MRS. E. B. WELLS,
		MY DEAR SISTER:
	After days and weeks of thinking I would write
you, every day promising myself I would write to-
morrow, I now make an attempt to fulfill my
promise to tell you something of Mexico though
my knowledge of the country is limited, living on
the border and not having traveled in the interior,
but I can tell you a little about our little Colony,
and La Ascension about four miles from here,
where the Custom House Officials live. From
Deming, New Mexico to Diaz, about ninety miles,
and as far as the eye can reach beyond is a level
country covered with mosquito brush with here
and there a windmill to relieve the monotony.

[Column 2]

No high mountains but only a range of low hills
far in the distance, encircle a very large valley.
The days are hot but the nights as a rule are re-
freshingly cool. The soil is sandy, and so hot
that it burns your feet through your shoes, but
yet the children go barefoot, but I notice they do
not stand still long at a time, they run to keep
their feet from burning.
	This is an unusually dry season, the rains have
not started yet and vegetation is sadly in need of
rain, as the river is very low and the water for
irrigation comes into town only once in four
weeks. Those who have windmills are greatly
blessed as they can keep their gardens watered
during the dry season. Good water can be
obtained at a depth of eight or ten feet so that
nearly every family has a well near the door.
Water being so near the surface of the earth it is
difficult to have deep cellars, but the sisters
manage to make good butter in this hot weather,
without cellars. Some of the sisters in Utah
would wonder how it could be done perhaps.
It is an old adage that "necessity is the mother of
invention," and so it is here. The sisters find
ways to keep articles cool. One way is to keep a
wet cloth wrapped around the butter or milk and
stand it in a draught, wetting the cloth often, you
would be surprised to find how cool it keeps. All
kinds of vegetables are raised here in abundance
Now is the melon harvest; people invite their
neighbors to feast on melons. I have attended
two such feasts today and for once in my life had
all I could eat. In a few years there will be
plenty of all kinds of fruit as hundreds of fruit
trees have been set out. Strawberries, grapes
and tomatoes do well.
	Meetings are well attended, even during
these very hot days the meeting house is gen-
erally crowded. Fast meetings are as well at-
tended as the Sabbath meetings and a good spirit
prevails. The Relief Society, Young Ladies, and
the Primary organizations are all in good work.
ing order and have well attended, interesting
meetings.
	We had a celebration on "Pioneer Day," which
was kept much the same as it is kept in Utah.
The meetinghouse was tastefully decorated with
pictures, flowers and evergreens. A large Mexi-
can flag was draped over the stand. It is red,
white and green with a large eagle in the center,
standing on a cactus with a snake in its mouth.
A programme of speeches, songs, recitations,
toasts and sentiments was rendered in a credit-
able manner. In the afternoon races for prizes
were run causing a good deal of sport; and a
dance for the little folks. In the evening there
was a meeting where everybody was expected to
take part if called upon. They called it a "suc-
cotash" programme but it was the best feature of
the amusement.
	The Officials from Ascension were invited and
ten of them accepted the invitation, among the
number being the Administrator and the Presi-
dentee (or Mayor) it being their first visit to the
Colony. The Administrator made a speech,
through an interpreter, and said they felt honored
by the invitation, that they had enjoyed them-
selves and that they felt kindly towards the
Colony and that they would do all that the law
allowed in favor of the Colonists. It is hoped
and believed that their visit will have a good
effect. The Administrator is a jolly gray-haired
blue eyed man, with a broad forehead.
	La Ascension can be described in a few words
It is verily a mud town. The houses are built of
mud, or adobies 12x18 inches, without rock for
foundation, flat roofs, with a hole for a window
but no glass. There is no order about the way
they build as regards blocks. In the business
part of town the houses join each other, it re-
minds me of the old fort walls that we had in the
the days of Indian wars in Utah in the long ago.


As you look along the street it looks like a solid
mud wall with here and there a door with some
sort of a sign and if you inquire or enter, you
find stores, meat shops and saloons. No trees,
no flowers, no grass, no running water to be seen,
everything is of the same color, and that is a mud
color except on the public square where a few
trees are to be seen. Seats of mud a few yards
apart surround the square and a stand is in the
center where the band sit when they play on
holidays.
	The women wear on their heads, in summer
and winter, a long scarf usually black alpaca, but
sometimes black lace. They often attend our
meetings and seem pleased that some of our peo-
ple are learning their language.
	Though there are some unpleasant features and
some hardships to be endured in settling a new
country, living among a people who do not un-
derstand us or we them, yet there are also some
great advantages. Our children are not thrown
into temptation on every hand. No saloons are in
our midst, no smoking or gambling. I have not
seen one drunken person, nor seen one person
smoke or speak a profane word since I have been
here except by the Mexicans.
	We have an excellent School Teacher, who
was educated in the B. Y. Academy so that our
children are not neglected in their spiritual or
secular education. The people are working hard
building up the country, making it blossom as
the rose. They have done well in the short time
they have been here considering the many dis-
advantages they have had to contend with.
Many of the brethren are at work on the Rail
Road that is expected to connect us with the
outside world before long, when it is completed
no doubt many of our Northern friends will visit
us.
	Praying the blessings of God to attend you in
all your labors.
		I am your Sister,
			M.
	August 9, 1891.


