W. C. M. AND M. INSTITUTION.
	Minutes of the first semi-annual meeting of the
share holders of the Woman’s Co-operative Mer-
cantile and Manufacturing institution held in the
14th Ward Assembly rooms, Aug. 15, 1891.
Meeting opened by singing and prayer. After
which Pres Horne said that she always believed
in asking the blessing of the Lord upon all of our
undertakings—therefore the reason of opening
this business meeting by prayer.
	Spoke of the disadvantages under which the
Inst. had labored and the apparent non-interest
manifested by some of the stock-holders. Also
spoke of the splendid set of women employed in
the Inst., and of the good spirit which existed
among them. Spoke of the dullness of business
all over the city, and of the cost of fitting up the
store and getting started, such things will not have
to be purchased again but the means now re-
ceived will go into the business. Also spoke of
the opposition that has been brought to bear
against this movement.
	The Secretary then read the report up to Aug.
1st showing the condition of the business.
	Pres. M. I. Horne expressed her satisfaction
with the report, and hoped with the help and
patronage of the sisters to do much better in the
future and soon to be able to pay a dividend.
Mrs. M. W. Wilcox spoke in favor of the Inst.
and of the interest manifested by the Officers.
Solicited the patronage of the sisters and hoped
they would come forward and take more stock.
	Mrs. E. Woodmansee said she had not much
to say, but would testify to the integrity, economy
diligence and unselfishness of all the ladies who
had any thing to do with the Inst. She had
heard a great many complaints but nevertheless
we are doing well, and must not expect too much
at first. Mrs. C. C. R. Wells read an in-
teresting article from the Woman’s Business
Journal, and urged the necessity of stock-holders
patronizing their own Institution.
	Pres. Horne then spoke of the Dressmaking
department and testified to the ability of Mrs. M.
P. Spencer, in connection therewith. Mrs. Z. D.
Young spoke of her experience in the silk
factory which had taught her a useful lesson.
Regretted that it had been abandoned as we
should now be exporting silks. Referred to the
grand achievements resulting from small begin-
nings and gave encouraging words to all engaged
 in this enterprize. Mrs. B. W. Smith called at-
tention to the efforts that have been made to in-
duce us as a people to trade with our own folks.
Trusted that we would all be united now in sup-
port of this Inst. Why should we not succeed in
a business enterprize as well as the women of the
world.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson expressed her faith
in the Inst. Was not an extensive stock-holder,
but would be could she follow her inclinations;
she had perfect confidence in the officers and
thought the showing very good. Dr. E. S. Barney
spoke encouragingly; was encouraged by the re-
port. Spoke in praise of the different officers
and expressed her desire to aid and promote the
welfare of the Inst. Some other ladies spoke as


being well satisfied with the showing made by
the report. Pres. Horne gave notice of the first
annual meeting of the stock-holders which would
be held Feb. 15th,1892. After singing and bene-
diction by Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, several ladies
came forward and had their names put down for
more shares.
