A MIDNIGHT MEDITATION.

   Our Father! who does not love those endear-
ing words?  Some of us can look back to days
of our earliest childhood and remember when
our earthly father took us by the hand and led
us to the house of God to mingle with His
people in his worship.  We remember with
what confidence we placed ourselves in his
care--how perfectly safe we felt, how happy 
in his company as he led us to the place "where
prayer was wont to be made," and how we
loved him, for was he not our father.
   Some of us can remember when our earthly
father was laid among the "clods of the valley."
and we lost his protection, his counsel and
perhaps his help, and we shall see him no more
until the resurrection of the just, but we have
still our Father in heaven, who cares for us
more than any earthly parent can do.  He
permits us to be called, "The sons and
Daughters of the Lord Almighty" The beloved
disciple John says.  "Behold! what manner
of love the Father hath bestowed upon us,
that we should be called the sons of God."
Notwithstanding this we have often sinned
against Him and the fruits of our disobedience
have been bitter, because it has caused Him to
hide His face from us, but when like the
prodigal we have returned to Him with contri-
tion of spirit, confessing our sins and wayward-
ness, He has been ready and willing to forgive,
and the still, small voice of love has whispered
to us. "Return unto me, and I will return
unto you," Let us then examine ourselves
and see how we stand in relation to our
Heavenly Father. Let us look back again a
few years and call to mind how we treated our
earthly father.  how we received him, how
willing to run at his call and do his bidding,
how dutiful and obedient—even when he


chastised us, we loved him, for we had confi-
dence in his superior wisdom, and felt that he
knew best what was good for us, and "If we
had fathers of our flesh which corrected us and
we gave them reverence, shall we not much
rather be in subjection to the Father of Spirits
and live."
	We have not minds large enough to compre-
hend all the goodness our Heavenly Father has
manifested towards us.  Even in our primeval
state, we were upheld by His power and good-
ness, and when it pleased him to permit us to
come to earth, His watchful eyes was still
over us for good, and none have more fully
experienced the watchful care of our Father in
heaven, than the Latter-day Saints, to whom he
has revealed the Everlasting gospel, also His
mind and will concerning us.  He has gra-
ciously made known unto us by commandment
what our duty is, and by promises what we
may look forward to, if we keep his perfect
law.  Our time of trial here will be but short,
when we shall pass behind the veil—to mingle
with Prophets and Patriarchs and all who have
fulfilled the requirements of the Gospel. Let
us at all times, seek to possess the Spirit of God
and live nearer to Him—"Nearer my God to 
Thee—Nearer to Thee."
