			ASSOCIATION.

	The members of the P. C. W. P. A. met again
in Union Square Hall Aug. 11th. When the
Correspondents so ably took the lead, that it was
unanimously declared one of the most successful
meetings ever held by the Association.
	The President Mrs. N. B. Eyster, very grace-
fully introduced the distinguished visitor of the
occasion, Mrs. Sallie Joy White (Editorial Staff
of the Boston Herald), who in an agreeable and
forcible manner addressed the ladies for a short
time on the subject of Women’s Press Associa-
tions. When it leaked out that the Pacific Coast
Women’s Press Association was the outgrowth
of that of New England, of which Mrs. White
was the first President, much merriment was
caused by that lady re-introducing herself as the
‘‘mother” of those present; and her statement
that she was proud of her “children” met with
vigorous applause.
	Mrs. Hannah L. Neal then read a poem “White
Nuts” followed by Mrs. S. P. D’Evelyn who
gave an admirable paper entitled “Practical
thoughts on Correspondence,” the gist of it being
that subjects of general interest written in the
smallest space are the most acceptable. Mrs.
Leila Ellis next stepped forward and in a dra-
matic manner related some of her experiences
during “A recent visit to New York,” after which
Mrs. Lydia Prescott gave a very thoughtful paper
on “Should motive underly the work of a Cor-
respondent?” Mrs. Matheson followed with a
unique sketch entitled “A Paper Without a Sub-
ject,” and ripples of laughter floated over the
Hall as in a humorous and graphic manner she
described her sufferings when supplying a weekly
column for a country Editor, who would take
nothing on Politics, Climate or Scenery, but who
insisted on news pure and simple. Mrs. M. V.
Lewis, last but not least on the programme then
read a paper on “The field for Correspondents in
California,” which proved her to be the happy
possessor of a cultured and thoughtful mind.
	This talented young lady is also a member of
the New York Press Club, but has signified her
intention of remaining on this Coast for an in-
definite period, which is a source of congratula-
tion among her sister writers of the West.
Hearty hand shaking and an interchange of
kindly greeting, closed a most delightful meet-
ing.


[Column 1]

