OUR BELOVED PRESIDENT.

"He giveth His beloved sleep."
	Sister Sarah Smith Wheeler, who died in this City July
10, 1891, was born in Westbury Parish, Gloucestershire,
England, the 2nd November in the year 1806. She married
Thomas Smith when a quite a young woman, and when the
Gospel was first introduced in that part of England where
they resided, in 1841, her husband was among the first to
join the Church of Latter-day Saints. Sister Smith was
baptized a year later, 1842. They emigrated to this
country in 1852, Sister Smith having the sad misfortune to
bury her husband while journeying to Zion of which they
had both talked so much and anticipated so much joy in
reaching. Sister Smith however continued her journey
with her son and daughter, being ever desirous of continu-
ing on in the path of right and duty. 
	The Millennial Star has the following obituary pub- 
lished after hearing of her husband's death.
	"We regret to learn, by intelligence from America, that
Thomas Smith, late a Traveling Elder in the Bedfordshire
Conference, England, died of chills and fever, at St. Joseph
Missouri, U. S. A., on the 28th of May, 1852.
	"Elder Smith was well known in many parts of this
Island for his zeal, energy, and courage, in propagating and
defending the principles of the Everlasting Gospel. He
departed this life, maintaining the same unflinching testi-
mony which he had so long borne to the truth."
	Sister Smith Wheeler was chosen to preside over the Re-
lief Society of the Second Ward in this City in the year
1869 and honorably and faithfully discharged the duties of
her calling and was greatly beloved by all those associated
with her in the ward in which she resided and also among
the Saints wherever she was known. For the past two years
owing to her feeble health she has been unable to attend
to the duties of her office, but her Counselors have pre-
sided in her absence feeling it a pleasure to perform this
duty for one so well beloved.
	The sisters of the Relief Society of the Second Ward,
Salt Lake City feel to value her most earnest labors as
worthy the emulation of all. Ever since she joined the
Saints it has always been her zealous and most earnest


wish to do good to those in need. She was ever most
charitable, loving and kind to all, ever striving in the path
of duty to be a Saint of God. Her words to all who were
in trouble, were, “no matter how dark your path may
seem, put your trust in God and He will bless you.”
	May we who are left not mourn her loss here, but fol-
low in the path which she has always advised us to walk
in and ever be found striving to follow in the path of duty
that it may be said of each of us, as it is of our beloved
President, she is a fit subject to enter into that glorious
mansion which is prepared for the faithful, for, “A good
name is rather to be chosen than great riches and loving
favor rather than silver and glod.’’
