BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.

	Within the memory of most of us nearly
every family boasts some member who was
said to be a "born nurse," who came to the
fore in time of sickness, and whose labor of
love was sometimes shared by a paid outsider,
usually a motherly body supposed to have a
great deal of experience. But that time is
past, and now no one who can afford a
trained nurse thinks of taking a patient
through an illness without one, any more than
a captain willingly takes his ship through a
dangerous channel without a pilot.
	This means that a new trade or profession
has been created for women, and it may be
told once more that they owe it to one of the
noblest women of her time.
	At the close of the Crimean War the
passionate gratitude of the English people to
Florence Nightingale found expression in a
great public meeting, at which fifty thousand
pounds was subscribed as a testimonial to her.
She refused, however, to take it for herself,
and at her request it was devoted to a founda-
tion which was quaintly termed "An Insti-
tution for the Training, Sustenance, and
Protection of Nurses and Hospital Attendants,"
in connection with St. Thomas's Hospital,
London; and thus the first English training
school for nurses was started in June,
1860.
	Accounts of this great reform, which spread
in England from year to year, reached this
country more or less vaguely, but were with-
out result until, in 1872, the men and women
belonging to that branch of the State Charities
Aid Association which visited the sick in
Bellevue Hospital felt that they could not do
any good or lasting work until the existing
system, or want of system, should be entirely
changed. The nurses were too few in number,
nearly all illiterate, some immoral, and others
intemperate, and had sought their places
simply as a means of livelihood, and not because
they had any aptitude for, or knowledge of their
profession. The members of the Bellevue
Association therefore applied to the Com-
missioners of Charities and Correction for
permission to establish a school for nurses at
Bellevue Hospital, pledging themselves to pay
the additional salaries and all other expenses
of a better class of women and to put two
more nurses in each ward. The consent of
the Medical Board of the hospital, to whom
the Commissioners refered this appeal, having
finally been given to what many physicians
considered a doubtful experiment, the Bellevue
Training School for Nurses was started on
May 1, 1873, with a superintendent and five
nurses, having five wards under their care.
	In 1890 the school had 62 pupils and has
graduated 345, while as a direct outgrowth of
that modest beginning there are three other
great schools in New York alone. These are
the New York City, which has 64 pupils and
has graduated 263; the New York Hospital,
48 pupils and 132 graduates; and Mount
Sinai, with 50 pupils and 111 graduates. There
are also smaller schools in the city, but, great
or small, Bellevue must always be honored as
the pioneer. Her graduates are at the head
of most of the important schools and hospitals
in the country, and have even gone so far
afield as England, Italy, and China.
	The next school to be established was the
New York City, which was started by the
Commissioner of Charities and Correction in
1877, and is entirely supported by the City.
Until last year it was known as the Charity
Hospital School, because it began there, but
as it grew its work spread until the old name
was misleading and had to be changed. It is
now the largest and in some respects the

[Column 2]

most important of all the schools, as it,
nurses five different hospitals—Charity and
Maternity on Blackwells Island, the Infant's
Hospital on Randall's Island, Gouverneur at
Gouverneur Slip, and Harlem, at the foot of
East 120th Street, the two last being accident
or emergency hospitals, while at Charity the
cases are largely chronic. Besides the pupils
of the school, there are thirty-two permanent
trained nurses at Charity and Randall's
Island, making nearly a hundred in all, for
whom the superintendent is directly responsible
and over whom she has full authority. The
other schools in the city are supported from
the funds of the hospitals which they nurse.
	I have said that nursing is a trade or pro-
fession, for it is really both—being a trade, in
that it exacts manual skill and dexterity, and
a profession because it requires mental ability,
judgment and progressive knowledge. The
hospital is therefore at once a workshop and a
college, with this essential difference, however,
that its scholars exist because it has need of
them, not they of it. So much talk has been
made about nursing as a noble "vocation"
that it is easy to lose sight of the fact that
hospital training schools are run first of all
because hospital patients must be taken care
of. When Florence Nightingale led her
little band of workers out of England it was
not in order that women should have a new
vocation, but because men were dying like
flies in the hospitals at Scutari, and the
women who started the Bellevue School did
so because they found the hospital could be
well nursed in no other way.
	In most of the schools the nurses receive
each $10 a month during the first year of
their service, and $15 the second, and at the
present time there is some discussion as to
whether they should be paid at all, or should
give their time in return for their professional
training, as the house physicians do. This
seems reasonable enough to an outsider, but in
the first place much of a nurse's work is of a
routine kind, repeated far oftener than is
necessary for her education, and such as a
doctor is rarely called upon to do, and in the
second the most desirable pupils are those
who could be self-supporting outside the schools
and will not be a burden on their families while
in them. In this country there is a large class
of conscientious and industrious women whose-
education and early associations lead them to
look for some higher and more thoughtful
labor than household service or work in shops,
who have received the good education of our
common schools, and who are dependent on
their own exertions for support. These women
can be trained to make the best possible nurses,
and it is the unanimous opinion of the superin-
tendents of the large schools that it would be
false economy to seek to deprive such pupils of
the small salary which now keeps them inde-
pendent during two years of very hard work.
	We will suppose that a woman of this kind
has decided go into one of the large schools,
and has applied to the superintendent for infor-
mation. She receives in return a circular
giving the rules, requirements and course of
study, and in due time finds herself with other
candidates waiting for examination in the
superintendent's office. When her turn comes,
and if her credentials are satisfactory, the
superintendent usually talks to her a little while
in order to find out what grade of nurse she is
likely to make; for candidates are admitted
only oh their own merits, and where there are
more applicants than vacancies it is important
to secure the best. A short examination in
spelling, dictation, and simple arithmetic
follows, and also in reading aloud, but this is
often past over if a candidate is evidently too
nervous to do herself justice.
	Varions experiments have been tried as to
Examining Boards, but the best result is always

[Column 3]

gained by choosing a good suprintendent, and
then leaving her free to select her own nurses,
without fear or favor, from those who present
themselves, as she must train discipline, and
live with them for two years, and has therefore
every reason to take only those who are likely
to do her credit.
	Apart from articles in professional journals,
much that has been written about hospital life
is apt to strike one familar with it as somewhat
vague and sentimental, and there may there-
fore be some interest in the following sketches,
by pupils now in the New York City Training
School. The first gives a general outline of
the work.
	(To be continued)


