IN RURAL ENGLAND.
  		I
   Descriptive passages in a story are not always
acceptable to the public, nevertheless one can-
not well avoid dwelling upon romantic scenery
when writing of a country as charming as 
England, and especially the rural districts;
one reads of them with delight, but what must
it be to see and wander through such
picturesque scenes, and places as are familiar
to the native-born English man or woman.
   In one of the most beautiful parts of the
country a young maiden was wandering alone,
her eyes were downcast, as though her thoughts
were intensely occupied, she stopped now and
then a moment in her walk to pluck a wild
flower, and then nervously picked it to
pieces, and scattered the leaves to the soft sum-
mer breeze.  Evidently she was much perplexed;
sometimes she would pause for a moment as if
she would retrace her steps, and then dart
rapidly forward, looking about her as though
in doubt or fear.
   As she neared the outskirts of a magnificent
forest she glanced cautiously around, then
plunged, as it were into the thicket of under-
growth that hemmed in the woods.  As she
did so she listened now and again like one in
alarm.  Why had she ventured thus far alone,
she, who was always so well attended?  her
face, her manner everything about her betok-
ened one of "gentle blood."  Her figure was
slight and willowy, her slender arms and neck
were of the most graceful contour, her hair
loosely twisted was falling from the pearls with
which it had been fastened and shimmered in
the sunlight like burnished gold.  Her dress
was of some soft airy fabric, of that charming
sea-green color that reminds one of a sea-nymph, 
over her shoulders she had thrown in the most
néglige fashion, a rich India cream colored 
shawl, a leghorn hat was tied with lute-string
ribbon under her fine cut dimpled chin; her
cheeks were glowing with the flush of excite-
ment and as she stood in the thick of that deep


[column 1]
wood, she trembled and shivered like the leaves
above her.  She seemed too restless to be seat-
ed but paced up and down between the tall
stately beechwoods, and ocasionally stamped
her dainty little foot as though in anger to be
kept waiting.  Anon a sound was heard in the 
distance and she listened anxiously at first but
afterwards more in fear, for she had percieved
that the noise was the gallop of a horse instead
of footsteps as she had expected. How is it 
that when danger approaches one loses all
presence of mind and seeks safety in any way 
except to brave it openly?
	In this way those who wish to escape obser-
vation often betray themselves, whereas by
self-possession and presence of mind they might
avoid suspicion and matters be easily 
explained.
	In this particular instance the young lady 
was very much disconcerted; and when the 
horseman approached nearer to where she stood
she leaped on stepping stones across a winding
stream into the very depths of the rushes and 
willows on the opposite side, her feet sinking 
into the marshy ground.  On the mossy banks
of this clear pebbly brook she had loved to lin-
ger until the dark shadows warned her that the 
sun was setting, and her maid who was always
with her in these rambles, would chide her for
staying so late, lest she should take cold from
the dew; now she neither feared cold or damp
nothing but having her whereabouts exposed.
	Nearer and nearer came the horse's hoofs
until it seemed as though the ground was giv-
ing way under her feet,and as if the footprints
of the horse's hoofs were penetrating to her
very heart; she did not weep, she did not scream,
not even pray; she knew though her brain was
dizzy with excitement, that the plans she
had contrived to shun observation had been 
discovered; yet could not imagine how,—"did 
her father know?" was her first rational thought,
for it so, she would rather die there than brook
hsi anger—"Hello, Hello" shouted the rider
as he cracked his whip again and again, until 
the echoes ran through the woods.  Simultan-
eously with the call of the rider came the heavy
tread of a man's footsteps cracking the brush
and dry branches as he hastily strode along,
for not finding his sweetheart at the trysting
place, the impatient young lover pressed for-
ward peering here and there, but hearing the
"Hello" scarce knew which course to take.
At the moment he caught sight of the 
horse and its rider, he also detected a glimpse
of something on the other side of the brook
not far off, and suspected it to be the one they
were both in search of.  Quick as thought he
called, "What ho! fair lady what brings you 
here at such speed?  whom seek you at this
hour, some recreant lover? know you not there
is danger for one so young and fair?"  The 
young man spoke almost incoherently, and 
sprang hastily forward to assist the lady to
alight.  In the same breath almost the lady
replied testily I only seek my cousin who came
in this direction unattended and I fear some
ill chance has befallen her; she is not used to
stray away in this fashion, and it bodes no
good;" and as if fearing to betray the emotion
she felt the speaker paused, for she would not
have him suspect what she really thought lest
he should baffle her.
	"O, your cousin is safe let me assure you,she
is not hereabouts or we should see her; why
should she come to this lonely place, it doth
not suit a gay young girl's mood,she is always 
singing and laughing as merry as the warbling
birds or the rippling brooks that run on forever,
let me help you to mount your horse and I
will accompany you to the edge of the wood,
and you will cross the fields swiftly and reach-
ing home find your fair cousin there before
you." "No! No! she is here somewhere you
 must help me find her, my uncle will miss her
on his return and every one at the Castle will
be called out to seek her, night is coming, I
must find her," and the poor girl almost
screamed so great her agitation was becoming.
"I believe she has crossed the stream I will find
her at all hazards," and without another word,
she sprang acrose the brook before the young
man could intercept her way, soon she heard a 
low moan a little farther back and there lay
her fair cousin prone upon the damp earth
among the tall rushes; "Help! Help! quick,
cried the girl and with a bound the young man
sprang to the spot and lifting the prostrate
form in his strong arms carried her to a rock
near by and they bathed her face and chafed
her hands; until consciousness began to return;
the ardent, impassioned lover looked at the 
brave young horsewoman, who seemed so self-
posessed, while he trembled, as if to ask what
could be done, she returned his glance with
a look of scorn; decision at such a time was
necessary and this young woman was strong
and firm as well as brave. Carry Mis Hil-
liard to the other side," and following quickly
she loosened her horse, jumped into the saddle
and bidding him lift up his burthen, he laid her
in the arms of her heroic but indignant cousin,
and with out a word to the disappointed lover,
she gave rein toher good steed and was soon out
of sight; across the fields she fairly flew, she felt
not the weight in her arms, she only thought of 
safety to the beautiful young creature, so 
crushed and helpless; as she neared the Castle
however she pondered how she could avoid
suspicion. She had taken the horse for a ride
in the fields, the groom would question why
she stayed so late, besides how could she get
down with her cousin in her arms; and who
would be in the way, she considered all this,
but fate was propitious, the coast was clear;
there seemed no one about, she rode cautious-
ly up the long avenue, and stopped in a 
secluded place; all this time her cousin had
not spoken or made a sound, she was too
humiliated to know what to say, benumbed with
cold and fear, her very heart seemed paralyzed.
She knew not what to expect but felt death
would be a relief.  Just as one tries to arouse
those who are dying of cold, so the brave 
cousin of Miss Hilliard tried to make her un-
derstand she must exert herself, and strange
to say she succeeded. Almost without her
own volition she slid herself down at the steps
of her father's castle and crept rather than
walked up the steps and hallway into the
house; her cousin following, leaving the horse
without waiting for a servant, fearing questioning
might follow.
	Once inside Miss Hilliard was undressed by
her cousin Jane and assisted into bed, the family
physician was duly summoned, who pronounced
the case one of nervous prostration, and no
one in the house except the cousin knew what
had brought on this serious illness.  Cousin
Jane had removed all the disordered clothing,
before even the maid had been summoned,
and there lay the patient, pale and listless
when the Dr. arrived. "Where is Sir Ed-
ward?" inquired Dr. Hammond.  "Gone up to
London," was the answer given by the maid
in waiting.  "Is there any danger then?" said
cousin Jane anxiously, "No! no! only I thought
her father might like to know just how his
daughter was, she is very ill, quite low, but
not dangerous."


