WOMEN IN THE WORLD'S FAIR.

   ﻿Mrs. Potter Palmer President of the Ladies
World’s Fair Commission has returned from
Europe where she has been working up an in-
terest among women, in regard to representation
in the World’s Fair of 1893, she has been received 
with honors, and has succeeded in arousing
enthuiasm abroad and since her return home has
called a meeting of the lady Commissioners to be
held in Chicago early in September.
   Mrs. Margaret B. Salisbury Chairman of the
Utah commission is absent from home and Miss
Keogh, alternate will go on to represent the inter-
ests here and Mrs.Whanla of Ogden who is also a
Lady Commissioner, will leave for Chicago at the
same time to be present at the meeting and to get
information concerning what is expected to be
done here by the women of the Territory.
   This Fair is a mammoth enterprise and what
little such a small Territory can do, may seem
insignificant but, if a united effort is made by
the ladies here something creditable can surely
be accomplished. It is high time to begin, and
any one who can arouse the energies of those 
skilled in the various trades, industries and pro-
fessions to commence special articles at once with
a view to putting them on exhibition will be do-
ing a public good. There are many women in- 
genious and skilled in certain departments of
work, who need encouragement and perhaps 
means to get material to work with, all these
things should be talked of in the locality where
such persons reside, and if necessary application
made to those who have the matter in hand, and
the proper assistance rendered; as this is not
merely a personal affair, but one in which all
have a general interest
   The Territorial Legislature will surely make a
generous appropriation for the women of Utah,
who are really deserving of something in a pub-
lic way considering all the taxes they pay without
representation. Every facility ought to be
afforded to those, who are helping in this laud-
able undertaking. Men and women who have
chosen Utah for a home should be as proud of
what can be accomplished in this new country
even though it may be a little crude, as those in
older States and countries where greater progress
in the arts, sciences, professions and industries
has been arrived at.
   The women and girls throughout this Territory
should respond to the invitation extended to pre-
pare something for the coming Fair, and begin
without delay as there is no time to be lost.
Mrs. Salisbury will be at home soon and will call
a meeting of the Committee which consists of
about twenty-five ladies, and make more definite
arrangements concerning what measures will be
taken to reach all the outside counties. Mean-
time talk up this matter whenever an opportunity
offers among the ladies and consider what can be


done individually. The silk culture and manu-
facture might be one of the important branches of
development in the Utah exhibit.
   We intend to keep this matter before the
ladies and inform them from time to time con-
cerning the Woman’s Fair Commission; probably
before another paper is issued there may be
something more tangible to present in regard to
what postive steps can be taken to forward the
enterprise in Utah.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	In the first line of the last verse of the poem
‘‘Singing Evermore” published Aug. 15, the 
words “Often life” should read “Other lips.”
	The Relief Society Conference of the Weber
Stake will be held in Ogden on Thursday, Sep-
tember 10th, Mrs. Jane S. Richards presiding. 
	The quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Sanpete Stake will be held at Mt. Pleasant on 
the 9th of September. Mrs. M. A. Hyde Presi-
dent wishes the County well represented. 
	Bouquets of late summer flowers have lately 
graced our sanctum, gifts from Sisters Jane
Cowan, Mary Gunderson and Jane Holt. We
also had a basket of delicious cherries from Sister
Grey; for these most acceptable favors, we wish
to make grateful acknowledgements. 
	The Relief Society Conference of Cassia Stake
will be held at Oakley on the 19th of September.
It is expected that Pres. Zina D. H. Young, her
Counselor Jane S. Richards and Aurelia S. 
Rogers, Pres. of the Primary Associations of 
Davis Stake will go to attend this Conference and 
also the Primary and Y. L. M. I. A. This is the
first visit of the leading sisters of the Relief 
Society to Cassia Stake. Mrs. Louisa Haight is
the President, and Mrs. Louisa Picket Secretary.
	Mary Emma Vanscoonhoven, M.D., has returned 
from Ann Arbor University, Michigan, having 
graduated a full-fledged physician and surgeon,
after a four years course, and has now established 
herself in practise in this City. Her office is in 
the Constitution building opposite Z. C. M. I., 
Rooms 324 & 325 on the third floor, reached
easily by the elevator. Mrs. Van as she is best
known here where she has lived from childhood,
had quite a successful practise as an obstetrician,
and in treating children etc., previous to entering
the University having taken regular courses in 
those studies under some of the leading
physicians here.
	The Latter-day Saints College will open its
annual session this month in the Social Hall
as formerly. The trustees having secured 
permanently the property formerly owned by 
Mrs. Etta Ellerbeck, and where it is anticipated
putting up suitable college buildings as soon as
circumstances will permit, and laying out and or-
namenting the grounds handsomely. Dr. J. E. Tal-
mage the Principal of the institution has recently re-
turned from a trip abroad whither he went during 
vacation, one object being to attend the meeting
of the Royal Microscopical Society in London of
which he is a member; he also visited France,
Switzerland, Belgium and Northern Germany, 
spent considerable time in Paris and during his
travels has collected much valuable information
of a literary, historical, scientific and general
character.
	The quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake will be held in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, on Friday September 11th, meet-
ings commencing at 10 a.m. and at 2 p.m. as
usual. It is expected there will be an interesting
[Column 2]
Conference, and the President M. I. Horne is de-
sirous there should be a full attendance and each
branch have representation through its members
The Conference of the Primary Associations of this
Stake will convene the following day in the Salt 
Lake Assembly Hall, and there should certainly 
be a large representation from the various
branches, as this is a suitable season of the year
for the children to assemble and show what im-
provement has been made. Meetings will com-
mence at 10 a.m. and at 2 p.m. All interested in 
the spiritual welfare of the children are invited to
attend. The Y. L. M. I. Associations of this
Stake hold their Conference Sep. 1, in the As-
sembly Hall. Meetings commence at 2 p.m., and
7:30 p.m. The programme of exercises as pub-
lished in the daily papers ought to ensure a large
audience. Mrs. Mary A. Freeze is the President
and a cordial invitation has been extended to the
public.


