OUR NATIONAL FLOWER.

	If the question of a National Flower has
not been decided, why not place the matter in 
the hands of the Woman’s Board of Manage-
ment of the Columbian Exposition for final 
settlement? Wherever a flower has been 
adopted by any country, it has been because
that in some way it represented some historic
event or some characteristic quality by which


it became symbolic. Perhaps we have no
flower that approaches these conditions more
nearly than the Wild Columbine.
	First, because it wears our national colors. 
Growing in every section of our country, its
color at the South is more often blue; at the
North it is white; in the Middle and Western
States it is red, with a golden interior. Its 
name, “Columbine” is derived from the same
Latin word as that of Columbus, the discov-
erer of our country, and of Columbia, the
name our nation rightly bears; also of the dis-
trict where our nation’s capital is fixed; of one
of our largest rivers, of one of our most im-
portant colleges, and of numerous towns and 
villages in every State of the Union; last, but
not least, of the name of our great exposition 
itself.
	Botanically, the Wild Columbine belongs to 
the genus Aquilegia, thus bearing a double 
significance. The word Aquilegia is derived
from the Latin Aquila, or eagle, the emblem of
dignity and might, and our nation’s chosen
emblem. From the foregoing we may assume
a symbolic claim on the part of the Wild
Columbine to be regarded as our national 
flower to which no other flower can pretend.
	In its typical character we see that it grows
and thrives under the most adverse circum-
stances, clinging to the bare rock, even as our 
forefathers did when first they opened their
eyes upon a new world. Like the eagle it
chooses the highest cliffs for its dwelling,
courageously overhanging the deepest and
most dangerous precipices. Its trumpet-shaped
petals cluster around a central shaft, typify-
ing the tongues of many nations joined in one.
It dances just as gaily in its wildwood home as
in the highly-cultured garden, its only change
under cultivation being a multiplicity of
trumpets, one within another, to sound the 
praises of a free and glorious country. It has
all the delicate beauty and power of endurance
belonging to American womanhood; all the
courage and hardihood of America’s noble
sons. Like the voices of our honored states-
men, the trumpet-shaped petals, their office
fulfilled, fall singly, one by one, beautiful to 
the last, leaving the central shaft which they 
protected, fruitful with seed for coming gen-
erations. 
	Graceful in poise, attractive in form, under
no circumstances becoming a noxious weed, 
wearing an air of prosperity as it swings its
dainty bells from the crevices of bare rocks,
what more can be said of any flower, as the 
emblem of American independence and thrift,
than may be said for the Wild Columbine?
Let our great Columbian exposition weigh the
matter.
					    M. SEARS BROOKS.
	Woman's Journal.


Malice drinks one-half of its own poison.— 
Seneca.
	Laziness grows on people; it begins in cob-
webs and ends in iron chains. The more busi-
ness a man has to do the more he is able to ac-
complish, for he learns to economize his time.

	Justice is itself the great standing policy of
civil society, and any eminent departure from
it under any circumstance lies under the sus-
picion of being no policy at all.—Burke.

	He that visits the sick in hopes of a legacy, 
let him be never so friendly in all other cases,
I look upon him in this to be no better than a 
raven that watches a weak sheep only to peck 
out its eyes.—Seneca.

	In early childhood you may lay the founda-
tion of poverty or riches, industry or idleness,
good or evil, by the habits to which you train 
your children. Teach them right habits then 
and their future is safe.


