A PICTURE OF HOME.

	I recall a home long since left behind in
the journey of life, and its memory floats back
over me with a shower of emotions and
thougths toward whose precious fall my heart
opens itself greedily like a thirsty flower. It 
is a home among the mountains—humble and
homely, but priceless in its wealth of associa-
tions. The waterfall sings in my ears, as it
used to through the dreamy, mysterious nights.
The rose at the gate, the patch of pansies
under the window, the neighboring orchard,
the old elm, the grand machinery of storms
and showers, the little smithy under the hill
that flamed with strange light through the dull
winter evenings, the wood-pile at the door, the 
ghostly white birches on the hill, and the dim
blue haze on the retiring mountains—all come
back to me with an appeal that touches my
heart and moistens my eyes.
	I sit again in the door-way at summer night-
fall eating my bread and milk, looking off upon
the darkening landscape, and listening to the
shouts of boys upon the hill-side, calling or
driving home the reluctant herds. I watch
again the devious ways of the dusky night-
hawk along the twilight of the sky and listen
to his measured note, and the breezy boom
that accompanies his headlong plunge to the
earth.
	Even the old barn, crazy in every timber
and gaping at every joint, has charms for me.
I try again the breathless leap from the great
beams to the hay. I sit again on the thres-

[Column 2]

hold of the widely open doors—open to the 
soft south winds of spring—and watch the
cattle, whose faces look half human to me as
they sun themselves and peacefully ruminate
while drop by drop the melting snow on the
roof drills holes through the wasting drift be-
neath the eaves.
	The first little lambs of the season tottle by
the side of their dams, and utter their feeble
bleatings, while the flock nibble at the hay-
rack, or a pair of rival wethers try the strength
of their skulls in an encounter half in earnest
and half in play. The proud old rooster crows
upon his dunghill throne, and some delighted
member of his silly family leaves her nest, and
tells to her mates and to me that there is
another egg in the world.
	The old horse whinnies in his stall and calls
to me for food. I look up the roof and think
of the last year's swallows—soon to return
again—and catch a glimpse of angular sky
through the diamond-shaped opening that gave
them an ingress and egress. How, I know
not and care not, but that old brown barn is
a part of myself—it has entered into life and
given me growth and wealth.
	But I look into the house again, where the life
abides, which has appropriated these things,
and finds among them its home. The hour of
evening has come, the lamps are lighted, and
a good man in middle life—though very old
he seems to be—takes down the bible and
reads a chapter from its hallowed pages. A
sweet woman sits at his side, and brothers and
sisters are grouped reverently around him. I
do not understand the words, but I have been
told that they were the words of God, and I
believe it. The long chapter ends and then
we all kneel down, and the good man prays.
I fell asleep with my head in the chair, and
the next morning I remembered nothing of
how I went to bed.
	After breakfast the bible is taken down, and
the good man prays again; and again is the
worship repeated through all the days of many
golden years. The pleasant converse of the
fire-side, the simple songs of home, the words
of encouragement as I bent over my school
tasks, the kiss as I lay down rest, the patient
bearing with the freaks of my restless nature,
the gentle counsels mingled with reproof and
approval, the sympathy that meets and as-
suages every sorrow and sweetens every suc-
cess; all these return to me amid the respon-
sibilities which press upon me now, and I feel
as if I had once lived in heaven, and staying
lost my way.
	Well, the good man grew old and weary and
fell asleep at last with blessings on his lips for
me. Some of those who called him father lie
side by side in the same calm place. The others
are scattered and dwell in new homes, and
the old house and barn and orchards have
passed into the hands of strangers, who have
learned, or are learning, to look upon them as
I do now.
	Lost, ruined, forever left behind, that home
is mine today, as truly as ever it was, for have
I not brought it away with me and shown it
to you? It was the home of my boyhood. In
it I found my first mental food, and by it was
my young soul fashioned. To me, throuogh
weary years and many dangers and sorrows, it
has been a perennial fountain of delight and
purifying influence, simply because it was my
home, and was and is part of me. The rose at
the gate blooms for me now, the landscape
when I summon it, and I hear the voices that
call me from lips which memory has made
immportal.
