[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | October | Issue: 2 | Title: Relief Society Conference | Author: Unknown]

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Tabernacle, Thurs-
day, Oct. 3, 1912, with President Emmeline
B. Wells presiding.
	The singing during the conference was
furnished by the Relief Society choir of
Granite stake.
MORNING SESSION.
	Hymn, “Hail to the brightness of Zion’s
glad morning;” prayer by Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth; singing, “Scatter Sunshine.”
Loving and congratulatory address of wel-
come by President Emmeline B. Wells; elo-
quent and interesting response by Mrs.
Mary J. R. West; duet, “Truth Reflects
Upon the Senses,” Mrs. Green and Mrs.
Curtis.
	Reports of the Relief Society of the fol-
lowing stakes were given as follows: Ogden
stake, by Mrs. Sarah M. Taylor; Sevier
stake, by Mrs. Christina Sorensen; Deseret
stake, by Mrs. Mary M. Lyman.
	Counselor Julina L. Smith spoke in ap-
preciation of the work done by the Relief
Society. When the Prophet Joseph Smith
organized the Relief Society, she said, he
could see further than we can see today.
Zion is growing and the Relief Society is
prospering, and the work will continue to
grow, Mrs. Smith urged the young girls to
dress modestly, as becoming to Latter-day
Saints; also spoke of arrangements having
been made for the making and supplying of
suitable clothing for the dead.
	Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox in an address
said in part:
	“It is a great blessing and privilege to be
living today—the day of fulfillment of
prophecy and of the dreams of great inven-
tors and discoverers. The present time is
the most glorious ever upon the earth. With-
out the work of the inspired discoverers and
inventors we could not today be enjoying
the blesings we now have. If they had not
had their great dreams and had they not
been inspired to work them out, think of the
advantages we should have been deprived
of today. Columbus was inspired to make
the sacrifices he did in discovering the
western country—the revolutionary fathers
and the soldiers suffered to make possible
the liberty of this beautiful land. We reap
the benefits and sacrifices of all of this.”
	Mrs. Wilcox told of the attention now be-
ing given to the subjects of health and of
the work being done by the state board of
health. She recalled that a prominent man
once said that he believed the time would
come when a normal child, born of normal
parents, would consider it a reproach to be
in ill health, and it seems that efforts are
now being made to bring about the fulfill-
ment of that condition. The Bible, she
said, “tells us that greater things hath no


[Column 1]
man done than this that he giveth his life
for his friend.”
	Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune gave a report
of the Relief Society in New York, and the
work it is doing.
	The benediction was pronounced by Mrs.
Emily S. Richards.
	The afternoon session was opened by the
singing of “Zion prospers, all is well,” Dr.
Romania B. Penrose offered the prayer.
	President Emmeline B. Wells spoke of
the blessings that had been given to the
daughters of Zion. She advised all to do
their work, in whatever line it should be, to
the best of their ability, and to follow the
good examples of those who had spent their
lives in doing good for others.
	An address on “Education of Women,”
was given by Mrs. Sarah M. Stewart, who
said “Froebel says that the education of the
child begins with the grandparents. We ap- 
peal to the parents that the progress of hu-
manity may go on. A few years ago women
did not have the educational privileges that
men had; not until about the time of the
Prophet Joseph Smith did they receive any
kind of recognition. They first demanded
education and claimed the fact that the men-
tal powers of women are equal to men.
	“The highest and noblest ambition of a
woman should be to be queen of the home
and the mother of noble children. Walt
Whitman says, ‘It is great to be a man, but
it is greater to be the mother of men.’
	“Women reach their highest, noblest, and
best as wives and mothers, as homekeepers.
The home today, seems to be neglected. It
is a place where people eat and sleep, but as
a home it is far from ideal. The home
should be the center of all that is good, the
center from which radiates the intelligence
and glory of the world. The example of
parents will influence the lives of their chil-
dren for good or otherwise. The highest ed-
ucation is the education for parenthood. In
the past it was thought sufficient if the
mother was good and pure, but now it is
demanded that there be a perfect father-
hood. Idealize the home.”
	“Mrs. Stewart made a plea for the educa-
tion of girls that would fit them to be good
wives and mothers, that they might be pre- 
pared to put into their homes the ideal moth-
erhood. The best of our lives she said
should be put into our homes, into our work,
and that no stone should be left unturned to
make our homes the best of homes.
	Reports of the Relief Societies in the fol-
lowing stakes were given; Millard stake,
by Mrs. Adeline Smith; Jordan stake, by
Mrs Hilda A. Larsen; Salt Lake stake, by 
Mrs. Harriet B. Harker; St. Joseph stake,
by Mrs. Sarah A. Layton.
	“Count your many blessings,” was sung
by the choir.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams said in
part: ‘I am grateful that I am descended
from honest and true men and women, who
have laid down their lives for the truth for
which they stood. As Latter-day Saints our
lives are always on the altar. At any time
we are on hand to make the sacrifice, if it 
becomes necessary. The labors of the women
of the Church are labors of sacrifice. Sac-
rifice brings forth the blessings of heaven.
It is the doing for others which brings hap-
piness, joy, and consolation.”
	Mrs. Williams told of the ravages by dis-
ease in some communities and urged the
members of the Relief Society to do all in

[Column 2]
their power to keep away sickness by pro-
curing a pure water suply and freeing their
premises from anything that would have a
tendency to breed disease.
	Dr. Jane Skolfield said; “If we wish im-
proved conditions in sanitary and civic
affairs, the women must become interested,
because this work appeals more to them than
to men. In the past, the work that has been
done along the lines of sanitation, protecting
food suply, pure water, etc., has been done
largely by women. Dr. Skolfield urged the
women to band themselves together for the
bettering of sanitary and civic conditions,
and to use their right as enfranchised citi-
zens to help in these matters.
	The benediction was pronounced by Mrs.
Susa Young Gates, and the conference was
adjourned for six months.
			OLIVE D. CHRISTENSEN, 
							Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE MOTHERS' PARADISE.
	The subject of our thoughts offers oppor-
tunity for many and varied opinions. A
careful study of children only convinces one
most thoroughly that children can not be
brought up, either by books or any one set
of rules. Circumstances of parents, family
traditions, traits, and most of all—child
character itself—shows that in the rearing
of a child, that child itself being the prime
factor, must necessarily be the principal
study. The hope and the faith of the
woman's heart while anticipating mother-
hood, and the delight and pleasure mingled
with good sense and wisdom in the early
care of the little one, the birth, the first
preparations regarding the care, the cloth-
ing and feeding of this precious gift, and
the first few years training of the little child,
is this time not indeed the mother's para-
dise; the development of a little life, God
given for us to teach and train.
	One of the sweetest things in all the
world is the prayer of a little child; no
music sweeter than his little voice, no pic-
ture more beautiful than a baby at his
mother's knee lisping his first little prayer.
Little folks, like grown folks, do not all
feel the same; some are naturally more spir-
itual than others, but all can be taught when
quite young a few simple words of prayer
and made to feel the occasion to be a solemn
moment. Children are very inquisitive and
frequently very skeptical, about sacred mat-
ters, and some times are known to ask ques-
tions about the Lord and heaven which their
parents are puzzled how to answer, not be-
cause they do not themselves know, but be-
cause it is not always easy or wise to ex-
plain to a child matters of that kind, and a
parent should strive to avoid too much ar-
gument about spiritual matters, while
always keeping within the child's heart a
reverence for the Lord and perfect faith
and trust in Him. Children generally are
full of faith, their trust in the Lord is im-
plicit and even so does the child have faith
in and trust his mother. How then, more
than anyone, should she strive never to de-
ceive her child and never to break a prom-
ise. It is far better not to make promises to
a child unless you surely can fulfill them,
for if failing one is likely to lose his confi-
dence and trust. In the development of a
child the mother has always these two
greatest assistants—love and nature—one

[Column 2]
the incentive, the other the guide, and if she
uses them wisely, even though extravagant-
ly, she is sure of success. In the moral de-
velopment of a child the greatest watch and
care is necessary; surely remember the wise
saying, "As the twig is bent the tree is in-
clined," and parents should guard carefully
themselves in their actions and words to-
wards a child. If a little one happens to be
mischievous or inclines to little rebellious
acts, mothers frequently resort to correcting
those faults by threats of or whippings for
punishment and the fear often prompts the
child to a falsehood in order to avoid the
promised punishment. Very small children,
except in rare instances, can not be rea-
soned with, but by some kind reproof can
be taught the difference between good and
evil and the best way to keep a child from
mischief or evil doing, just as with older
people, is to give him somtehing to do. It
is surprising how much a little child can
help his mother and how much it pleases
him. While the mother is necessarily em-
ployed in her household duties she can have
her little folks around her and be singing
nursery songs with them or telling them
little stories or repeating little verses, and
it is wonderful how readily the little folks
learn to repeat the same stories and also
learn the moral of them. The German
mother, when she sees her baby with a
match or sharp instrument, says, "Ah
Gabeln, messer, scherrer, licht, Gibt man
kleinen kinder nicht," which means in Eng-
lish, "forks, knives, scissors, or light, no
one must allow little children to have." If
mothers don't know any beautiful kinder-
garten songs, they ought if possible to learn
them for the children's sake and you would
not believe how much amusement and even
philosophy there is in the rhymes of Mother
Goose. Oh, but the busy mother says we
haven't time. Ah, there you are entirely
wrong. The early lessons of childhood can
easily be given during your morning work.
It lightens the work to have the children
with you. If you are washing the break-
fast dishes, perhaps some of them are dec-
orated with flowers and then a lesson in
color and form can be learned. The names
of the different dishes and the shape and
use may be talked about if they are round
or square, or oval, if they are china, or
glass, silver or tin, and so it is in every
occupation in the home, and who knows
but that perhaps in thus using her thinking
faculties, with her work, the mother learns
something as well. There are mothers with
little tots, too young yet for school, who
take time every morning to take them to a
room alone, and sing with them one or two
little hymns and repeat with them the Lord's
prayer, then pray a morning prayer of her
own. Do you think that mother loses any
moments from her work? No, indeed, she
gains them, for her work is lighter with the
children's co-operation and the kind spirit
that must be in such a home. The molding
of the character of a little child is the great-
est of all work.
A. W. C.


Robert Barr, the Scottish novelist, died
of heart failure October 22. He was as
well known in America as in England, hav-
ing at one time been connected with the
Detroit Free Press. His novels have al-
ways been among the best sellers.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
