[Vol10 | December 1923 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Joseph Smith (Portrait)]

Joseph Smith Farm, near Palmyra, New York. Seven sessions of the conference were held and one missionary meeting at the conclusion. Th conference closed Sunday evening, September 23. It was my privilege to attend all of these sessions, some of which were held at the Joseph Smith Farm, some on the Hill Cumorah, and one in the sacred Grove, where the Vision was received by Joseph Smith in the spring of 1820. All the missionaries and many of the Saints of the Eastern States mission were in attendance, so also were representatives from Utah and the West. President Heber J. Grant, President Rudger Clawson, and two members of the Council of Apostles were also present. President Brigham H. Roberts, of the Eastern States mission, had prepared an elaborate program, worked out in many details to cover topics dealing with the important events which had taken place at these historic places, anciently and in our own dispensation. This program, although departed from as occasion required, was carried through in a manner most impressive. Those who spoke and those who read entered into the spirit of the occasion with zeal and knowledge. Each topic was handled in a masterful manner, leaving impressions upon the assembled multitude that sank deep and touched their souls. Many strangers from the country round about were present at the several meetings. Some entered into the spirit of the meetings and were deeply moved by the sincerity and earnestness of the worshipers who had gathered at these shrines, as they were pleased to term them. None were observed who came to mock; if any came with such a spirit, most likely they remained to pray. 
 The missionaries of the Eastern States mission came from their respective fields, from the borders of Canada on the north, Virginia on the south, and Ohio on the west, each carrying a pennant with the name "Cumorah" written on it. They travelled most of the way on foot, performing missionary labor as they journeyed, and advertising with their flying pennants the object of their pilgrimage. As I stood upon these sacred places I had peculiar feelings which I cannot describe. I always do have such feelings; I have visited the Hill Cumorah and the Sacred Grove on other occasions. As I stood at the Smith home, I thought of the early struggles of the family, and wondered what means the Lord might have used to get them to move from Vermont or New Hampshire, if they had not been forced from those states by poverty. Their poverty was not the result of indolence, as the wicked have proclaimed, but the poverty and reverses of Providence, sent to give experience and to lead the family to a better land where the Lord could perform his work through the youthful Seer, yet to be raised up. When the Smith family arrived in Palmyra they immediately bargained for the purchase of one hundred acres of land. This is known today as the Joseph Smith Farm, and is in the possession of the Church. In that day the land was covered with a heavy growth of timber. This had to be removed before the land could be planted and crops raised to pay for the farm. As I stood upon this ground, I thought of the struggles this entailed. My grandfather, Hyrum Smith, and his older brother, Alvin, were called upon to do much of this laborious task. The younger brother, Joseph, was too young at that time to give much help, being only about ten years of age. Nevertheless he was called to assist, and a few years later—at the time of the vision—was under the necessity of performing labor required of a man. The house which stands upon the farm, was built by these sons of Joseph Smith, Senior; but it is not the house, as many have been told, in which the Angel Moroni appeared to Joseph Smith. The older house has long since disappeared, and stood several rods to the north of the present home. After the proclamation of the angel's visit persecution raged, and the family were not permitted long to enjoy the land which had cost them so much to prepare, because of others, who, through wickedness, for a season reaped the fruits thereof. As I stood upon the summit of the Hill Cumorah, in the midst of a vast multitude, only a few of whom belonged to the Church, I tried to picture the scenes of former days. Here were assembled vast armies filled with bitterness and bent on destruction. I thought of the great promises the Lord had made through his prophets concerning those who should possess this choice land, and how those promises were not fulfilled because the people violated his commandments. Here a people perished because of AT THE SACRED GROVE 587 their extreme wickedness. There must be something in the destiny of things that would cause a repetition of this terrible scene on the same spot, many centuries later. I reflected, and wondered if this unhappy time would ever come when another still mightier people would incur the wrath of God because of wickedness, and likewise perish. If so, would this same spot witness their destruction? I thought of the prophets, Ether, Mormon, Moroni, and tried to realize the sadness of their feelings as they witnessed the mad onrushing of their peoples to annihilation. We sang the song, prepared for this celebration, Zion-land, and I entered heartily, sincerely, into the spirit of the song: "God bless our Zion-land, Firm may she ever stand, Through storm and night; When the wild tempests rave, Ruler of wind and wave, Do Thou Thy Zion save By thy great might! "For her our prayers shall rise To God above the skies, With Him we stand; Thou who art ever nigh, Guarding with watchful eye, To Thee aloud we cry, God save Thy land." Here it was that Moroni, commanded by the Lord, hid up the sacred records of his people. Here it was, fourteen hundred years later, that he, then a resurrected being, came to Joseph Smith and committed these same records to the young man's care. At the time of the Prophet's first visit to the hill, it was covered with trees; today it is stripped and bare, save for the grass which grows abundantly. This former scene of strife and bloodshed, where two nations perished, later the sacred repository of ancient records, today is the abode of peaceful cattle, reclining and chewing the cud. The many millions of inhabitants of the land, who, because they love darkness rather than light, will not believe, although an angel has declared it unto them, appear to have no more thought concerning the wonderful events that have taken place near and on the Hill Cumorah, than have these cattle. The meetings held upon the hill were very impressive. Themes and episodes were discussed and read relating to these great events of former days. Testimonies were given and evidence presented that found lodgment in the hearts of those assembled, and many who came in wonderment and curiosity returned with serious reflections.
 Sunday morning, September 23, a most solemn and impressive meeting was held in the Sacred Grove. Only members of the Church were present. The sacrament was administered by two young elders, Jesse C. McEwan and Vernon D. Law. The Spirit of the Lord was manifest and felt by the entire assembly who sat in serious reflection thinking of the wonderful scene enacted over one hundred years before in this grove, and the great and marvelous work, the outcome of that vision. The following fitting description of the first temples was read by President Brigham H. Roberts: "The groves were God's first temples, ere man learned To hew the shaft, and lay the architrave, And spread the roof above them—ere he framed The lofty vault together and rolled back The sound of anthems; in the darkling wood, Amidst the cool and silence, he knelt down And offered to the Mightiest, solemn thanks And supplication."—Wiulliam Cullen Bryant. And now came one to this grove, as to a solemn temple, To submit his mind and his will to God— Man's highest act of worship—self-surrender. —Brigham H. Roberis. President Roberts then offered the invocation which was full of feeling and devotion. He expressed our gratitude to our heavenly Father for the revelation of the Father and the Son, which knowledge has given the world new light, and the perfect assurance of salvation to all who will believe. Inspirational remarks were made by President Heber J. Grant and other brethren and the gathering adjourned, feeling that the Lord had been with them through his Spirit on this solemn occasion. The following morning a meeting was called where all the missionaries received appointments to fields of labor, and they then departed 'on their several journeys feeling amply paid and greatly blessed in the things they had seen and heard. Thus came to a close this series of inspirational meetings, held one hundred years from the coming of the angel sent to proclaim the gospel that it might be declared to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people before the end of unrighteousness should come. EDITORIAL   THE GEMERAT, BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - Presiden. MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUIISE YATES ROBISON: - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN -: - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs, Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Heel! Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZIN E Editor - - Clarissa Smith WILLIAMS Associate Editor -.. - - - - Alice Louise Reynolds Business Manager: - -:: - - Jeanette A, Hyde Assistant Manager: - - Amy Brown LyMAn Room 29, Bishop's "Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 
 Christmas Editorial People ordinarily like to be up-to-date. To do this they generally assume that they must keep looking forward; yet it chances that a single sentence spoken two thousand years ago, by the angel chorus upon the Judean hills, is perhaps the most strictly up-to-date and forwardloeete sentence in the wide world at the present time. So important have these words become as the years have come and gone, that they are now as the breath of our body, or as the beat of. Our pulse. To employ the words of the immortal bard, That which they suggest, "is a consummation devoutly to be wished." 'Within the year attempts to further peace have been noted in the offer of a Peace Prize by Edward Bok, the discussion of a world court by President Harding, the meeting of an International Education Association, in San Francisco, that passed peace resolutions, which the state associations are endorsing, the recent plea of Lloyd George that Great Britain and the United States unite for the furtherance of world peace. This topic does not grow old but appears to be newer with every rising sun, with every tick of the clock. One issue of a daily paper a few days ago, recorded three different movements looking toward the establishment of peace. In the face of all this activity, surely we can accelerate our work; strive for greater love, and an increase of faith in our 
 Redeemer that the time may come and that speedily, when we shall neither cast behind us nor look far into the distance for that perfect day, when all shall sing with one accord, "This is the Millennial morn, the day dawn of peace and good will toward all men." The Relief Society Conference The Relief Society Conference, of October 4, was signalized by its practical nature. In accord with what appears to be present day custom, health was given a very significant place on the program. The report of Barbara H. Richards, member of the General Board, the address of Dr. Jane Skolfield, and notably the address of President Clarissa S. Williams, emphasized health. The statistics presented by President Williams are illuminating and interesting in the very highest degree, and should form a basis for constructive health work in the future. The practical nature of the program was apparent in the timely suggestions made by Jeannette A. Hyde, member of the General Board, pertaining to the conduct of the work and business meeting, also in the suggestions of Alice L. Reynolds, member of the General Board, in relation to the presentation of the literature lessons. To this group belongs the address of Julia A. Lund, member of the General Board, who took up the problem of the young people. Suggestions looking toward the development of companionship between parents and children formed some of the most valuable passages of the address. ' A touch of real beauty was added by Counselor Jennie B. Knight in her account of the Alberta Temple, at Cardston, and of spirituality by Counselor Louise Y. Robison, reminding us that the Spirit of the Lord in our work enables us to do that which is humanly impossible. A feature of the conference, widely commented upon and very greatly appreciated and enjoyed, was the music, under the direction of the general chorister, Lizzie Thomas Edward. One Grand Chorus The old saying that all roads lead to Rome has nearly a parallel in the present health program that is being "put over" in the United States. Churches, schools, newspapers, legislation, women's organizations, social workers, all persons and all organizations interested in human welfare appear to be emphasizing health. One gentleman observed, when the Bok peace award was offered, that what the world needed most was not a peace plan but some plan upon which all could unite for the furtherance of EDITORIAL 591 peace. People and organizations pretty generally seem to be able to unite on the health program of the nation. Recently the Utah Public Health Association held a conference in Salt Lake City. This conference was addressed by Mr. Philip P. Jacobs, publicity director of the National Tuberculosis Association, of New York City. Mr. Jacobs attracted a good deai of attention throughout the state in his public health address which bore the very catchy title of "Postponing One's Funeral." Mr. Jacobs stated that the longevity of the race had been increased about 15 years during the last 40 years, or since health education had been emphasized. Recently, Dr. Mayo, the famed physician of Rochester, Minnesota, stated that the longevity of the race had been increased 12 years in a very recent period of time. Mr. Wallace, as executive secretary of the Utah Public Health Association, reported that, while deaths from tuberculosis had always been rather low in Utah, still we are not controlling the situation as well as some other states. In 1922 Utah had 184 deaths from tuberculosis, which suggests, according to medical computation, that there are probably about 1,666 persons in the state of Utah suffering from this disease. Until a very recent time, there was no opportunity for isolating these patients. At the present time the Salt Lake county hospital has from 25 to 28 beds designed to care for tubercular patients. Money is needed to purchase adequate bedding for the beds, and for this purpose half of the proceeds accruing from the sale of Christmas Seals in Salt Lake county will be used. Martha Ann Smith Harris The daughter of the great martyred patriarch has gone to her reward. With her departure to that better land, the last link in the chain has been broken. Never again can we say, as we have said during her life and the life of her beloved brother, President Joseph Fielding Smith, "We still have a son and a daughter of Hyrum Smith among us." Her life's course suggests at once the terrible scene of the martyrdom at Carthage jail, the drivings from Nauvoo, the hard and perilous journey across the plains to this desert land, and the struggle for existence after the arrival. Happily for us and happily for future generations, the sons and daughters of the great patriarch, Hyrum Smith, have given to the world a very large and honorable family of children and grandchildren, so that while we are no longer privileged to have among us the sons and daughters of one of the first founders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we still have with us many of their descendants. One hundred and eighteen years have elapsed since the birth of the Prophet Joseph Smith, which occurred December 23, 1805..