The Mormon Battalions
HISTORY doesn't say so, but there were two Mormon Battalions. One was made up of the sturdy, Godfearing men, who, in 1846, marched forth in answer to their country's call. The other was made up of the women left behind; the women who gave their sons, husbands and fathers and then carried on, regardless of hardship, to make possible the reclamation of the waste places. Those women, our mothers and grandmothers, the Relief Society members of a generation that is gone, gave us a lesson in fortitude and courage which can serve us well in the troubled world of today.
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Richards St., Salt Lake City
UTAH'S PIONEER PRINTERS AND BINDERS
BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS!
RELIEF SOCIETY Centennial Personal Souvenirs NOW AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE
relief society
CENTENNIAL COMMEMORATIVE PLATE
This pottery plate, 10½ inches in diameter, depicts the first Relief Society meeting held in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842. Brown is the predominating color of the design on this beautiful ivory plate, with costumes in a variety of colors. The plate is bordered with gold-colored wheat heads. The inscription on the back gives information as to the organization, scope, and purposes of Relief Society.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN
No, 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated. Price $1.10, postpaid.
No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid-gold front gold filled, with 24 carat gold-plated back. Price $1.80, postpaid.
Both pins are identical as to design, size, and coloring. Although issued as a feature of the centennial year, this pin bears only the organization date, 1842, and will therefore be appropriate for use after the centennial.
These prices include Federal excise tax.
OUR LEGACY
RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL ANTHOLOGY OF VERSE
This 329-page book contains poems selected from the writings of Latter-day Saint women from 1835 to 1942, including all the prize poems designated in the annual Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest. The relatives of those whose poems are included in this anthology will be especially interested.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
"A CENTENARY OF RELIEF SOCIETY"
A special centennial commemorative book will soon be issued by the General Board. This valuable book, consisting of 96 pages, size 9x12 inches, will set forth in picture and story the history of Relief Society from its beginning to the close of its first century, March 17, 1942. The book will be bound in a blue paper book cover with its title, "A Centenary of Relief Society," and the centennial insignia stamped in gold. The price of the book has been kept as low as possible?fifty cents per copy, postpaid?whether single copies or quantity lots are ordered. Orders cannot be accepted without the remittance of fifty cents per copy. A special gift card will be sent with all copies of the book designated as gifts. Order from your ward Relief Society Magazine representative or direct from the General Board.
All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
The Cover
Garfield Beach?Bathing Resort of Pioneers
T. J. Howells, M. D.
At the extreme south end of the Great Salt Lake, less than fifteen miles west of the limits of Salt Lake City, was located the prominent Pioneer bathing resort known as "Garfield." It was the outgrowth and culmination of several similar resorts established earlier in that region, and in its day it eclipsed all others as a pleasure resort for Mormon Pioneers and their families. A narrow-gauge railroad connected this establishment with Salt Lake City, and in the 1880's and 1890's the resort was a thriving affair. Excursions were conducted from all over the state during the summer to this then famous resort where the bathing and the beach had become the most popular in the intermountain region. It was with difficulty, especially on holidays, that this inadequate railroad was able to transport the people to and from the resort. Children looked forward for weeks to this annual trip and the bath in the Great Salt Lake. Mothers crowded good things to eat into large baskets, and trips to 'Garfield' were events never to be forgotten. Our mothers loved it?it was the scene of their romances, the meeting place of their friends and a place for the reunion of families. The stimulating bath in the salt water, the clear air, the soft summer breezes, music, and dancing made this resort a magic word in the homes of the people. To the children it was a fairyland of amusement, crowded with good things to eat, cold soda water, wading, and loads of fun. Today, to those who remember that once famous beach resort, the word "Garfield" conjures up in our memories delightful times, wholesome entertainment, and golden sunsets reflected in the clear waters of the beautiful lake.
Note: The picture on the cover, by Dr. T. J. Howells, indicates all that is left of the bathing resort of "Garfield," now some distance from the shore. Across the lake, in the background, is Antelope Island, interestingly and historically tied to the early history of the Mormon Church. Cover arrangements are by Evan Jensen. The frontispiece photograph, 'Relief Society Centennial Tree," is by Irvin T. Nelson, Church landscape architect.
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman President
Marcia K. Howells First Counselor
Donna D. Sorensen Second Counselor
Vera W. Pohlman Secretary-Treasurer
Belle S. Spafford
Anna S. Barlow
Anna B. Hart
Alice B. Castleton
Vivian R. McConkie
Achsa E. Paxman
Gertrude R. Garff
Priscilla L. Evans
Leda T. Jensen
Mary G. Judd
Leona F. Wintch
Florence J. Madsen
Rae B. Barker
Luella N. Adams
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
Nellie O. Parker
Marianne C. Sharp
Pauline T. Pingree
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford
Acting Business Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. 29 AUGUST, 1942 No. 8
Vol. 29 AUGUST, 1942 No. 8
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES
The Cover Garfield Beach T. J. Howells, M. D. 515
The Tree Speaks Back of Frontispiece Maurine Jacobs 517
Relief Society Centennial Tree Temple Square Frontispiece 518
Under Divine Charter Leo J. Muir 519
The Social Effects of Alcohol Dr. Harold T Christensen 524
'How Shall We Preserve the Mental Health of Our Children in Wartime'? Mark K. Allen 528
A Children's Charter in Wartime 532
In Retrospect Chapter VIII President Amy Brown Lyman 538
Three Styles or Textures of Musical Composition Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen 570
FICTION
Bend in the River Iris Schow 533
Whither Thou Goest LaRene King Bleecker 557
GENERAL FEATURES
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 549
Editorial:
''Let Your Light So Shine'' Belle S. Spafford 550
Ethel B. Andrew Resigns 551
Notes to the Field 552
Announcements of Contests 552
Salvage for Victory 553
Information for ''Relief Society Magazine' Representatives 555
Notes from the Field Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 563
LESSONS
Theology and Testimony ''Articles of Faith,'' By James E. Talmage, Chapter 10 574
Visiting Teachers Reverence as an Expression of Faith 577
Work-and-Business Peace vs. Wartime Habits 578
Literature The Background of the Bible 580
Social Science Our Heritage 584
General Presidents of Relief Society Eliza R. Snow 588
POETRY
The Tree Speaks Maurine Jacobs 517
Trees Elsie E. Barrett 548
Give us This Day Vesta P. Crawford 573
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 38-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION 55,500

The Tree Sneaks Maurine Jacobs Skybroom, you call me, Watching my tall branches Rake the blue and summon clouds To bring you sustenance and shade. My roots grope deep to bind the soil; My veins distend to gather rain, Elixir of life for you and yours; My branches spread to give surcease And bring you hope through beauty. In my wise passing, Houses take their shape; Books, their form; Stoves, their fuel. In my needless death, Floods sweep the land; Desolation reigns; And man is cursed. I am both beauty and necessity. I am earth-healer, water-saver. I am earth's skybroom. I am content. Vol. 29, No. 8 MAGAZINE August, 1942 V Under Divine Charter Leo J. Muir President, Northern States Mission THE request that I should prepare this article has led me to a somewhat thoughtful analysis of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am venturing to set forth in these brief paragraphs the impressions that have come to me as I have proceeded in this study. I hope these impressions may prove interesting to all who read them, even though they may be obvious and commonplace. Let us begin with the impressive fact that this Society obtained its charter and received its commission under divine inspiration and guidance. This is the basic consideration in any logical examination of this beneficent Society. It was born under inspiration from God. Its charter did not come from some previously existing women's organization. It is doubtful that the humble group of women who sat with the Prophet and his associates at the organization of this Society could have obtained a charter under any women's organization had there been such organizations. There were no installation ceremonies, no sumptuous banquet, no publicity, no glamourous program. Eighteen humble women, modestly attired, met in the lodge room on the second floor of the Joseph Smith Store building in Nauvoo. There they sat in the presence of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his two associates, John Taylor and Willard Richards. The Prophet announced the purpose of the Society: it should care for the poor, minister to the sick, comfort the sorrowing, teach righteousness, and build up and strengthen the morals of the community. Here indeed is a noble commission! Here, also, a divine charter! It is interesting to recall that the meeting was-opened by the singing of that most fervent of all Latterday Saint hymns: ""The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning." I think we have in this brief account of the organization of the Relief Society a clear indication of its lofty function. Its activities cover that interesting borderland where the spiritual and the temporal coalesce. Here the loftiest reaches of Christianity find application and fulfillment. Here the idealism of the Christian faith manifests itself in the handicraft of Christian service. No Page 519 FACSIMILE OF TWO PAGES OF MINUTES OF ORGANIZATION MEETING OF RELIEF SOCIETY, MARCH 17, 1842 In Handwriting of Eliza R. Snow, 522 other society of women, so far as I have ever heard, proclaims for itself a divine origin. No other women's society, so far as I know, is commissioned to function in the activities above specified for the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Let me repeat that the activities of this Society cover that fruitful borderland where the spiritual and the temporal coalesce. There could be no higher commission entrusted to any organization. This assignment to womankind parallels the authority and commission of the Priesthood entrusted to men. Ministrations of the Relief Society though temporal in nature, fulfill and realize the greatest of all spiritual precepts and admonitions. Let us reflect upon a few of these precepts: Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Inasmuch as ye do it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. He that findeth his life shall lose it, and he that loseth his life for My sake shall find it. Lovest thou me, Peter? Feed my sheep. But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth. But seek ye first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the children of God. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God... And thy neighbor as thyself. If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come and follow me. And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity. Love is the fulfilling of the law. These are the most auspicious service beacons known to human experience RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1942 . Relief Society functions in the fulfillment of these loving mandates of the scriptures. The doctrines of Christian love constitute the objectives the bill of particulars in the commission given this Society. HE service of the Relief Society is a vision of what is to be. It is its exalted function to make dreams come true to fulfill the law through love. Only into the gentle hands of women could this high service be given with assurance of fulfillment. For more than a century the loving ministrations of the women of this Church have certified to the divine purpose of this Society. 'This divine purpose asserts itself not only in the service performed, but also in the growth experienced. The greatest product of service is growth. The loftier the service, the more noble the growth. Out of the service of Relief Society have come soul-chastening, consecration to duty, tender lovepower, and vital spirituality. The work of the Relief Society is soul-enriching. It bids not alone for self-sacrifice; it bids for self-fulfillment, self-realization. The noblest womanhood is attained and realized through the loving service to which this Society leads. The loveliness of womanhood is but the flowering of devoted service. The genius of the work of the Relief Society is love  the love of woman for womankind, the love of woman for humanity, the love of woman for that which is pure, ideal, sacred. God implanted the seeds of such love in every woman's heart. That love God ordained  is the most potential service-power known to human society. Womankind, love empowered God's beneficent UNDER DIVINE CHARTER agency of conservation! In her noblest role every woman is such an instrument in God's hands. Horace Mann has given us this profound thought: "Ideality is only the avaunt-courier of the mind, and where that goes in a healthy and normal state, I hold it to be a prophecy that realization can follow." The idealism entertained by the women the mothers who make up the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a propitious harbinger of the ideal life of that peace, love, and abundance of which the Savior spoke so frequently.  Ihe activities of this Society are pointed in that direction. Through such activities the ideal takes form and dwells among us. We have been speaking of the ideal and its realization. Let us not too quickly reach the conclusion that, either as a society or as individuals, we have reached, or may soon reach, the service-power here foreshadowed. Let us be happy that we are rightly pointed. A great service is soul-chastening. Latter-day Saint women have experienced more than a century of such self-refinement and soul-growth. As individuals and as an organization the women of the Relief Society have achieved much growth and refinement. However, it will be admitted that they still fall short of the preparation demanded under their high commission. Perhaps in the mechanics and in the technique of social service they occasionally reach the desired standards. Of this they may be proud. The failures which most impair their success are those which arise out of their lack of spiritual qualification. The "esprit de corps" of Relief Society activities is sisterhood the power of gracious womanly cooperation. Of all social manifestations, a well-poised sisterhood is perhaps the noblest and most potential. Most good men admit that the sisterhood of woman is not only a more conservative but also a more hopeful factor in human brotherhood than is the spirit of fraternity among men. In the promotion of civic cleanliness, community morals, social justice, temperance, and Christian living, women, individually and through their organizations, have been far more effective than men. Because Relief Society is committed to the loftiest of ideals, to the most sacred of principles, it may well claim its place at the front of all women's organizations of all sisterhoods. Its work parallels that of the Priesthood and is protected and guided by the influence of that sacred power and commission given to men. Its scope is world-wide; its opportunity unlimited. It is the perfect sisterhood.
We must conclude with this paragraph. We have said that in the Relief Society, operating under divine charter, the idealism of the Christian faith and the handicraft of Christian service coalesce. The perfection of this service the service to which the Society is commissioned is the ultimate goal of civilization. Through the triumph of these ideals, mankind will bring into reality the "Land of Promise," the "life abundant." The "hope of Israel" is the assurance men have that the ideal will become real, that good will triumph over evil, that "love will fulfill the law," that the Kingdom of Heaven will be found "at hand," and the Kingdom of God manifest itself "within us." Be ye therefore faithful to your stewardship.
The Social Effects of Alcohol
Dr. Harold T. Christensen Brigham Young University
SO widespread is the spirit of individualism today that many people are trying to emancipate themselves from the control standards of society, and are thereby attempting to live independently, without social responsibility. "What I do is my own business," they say; and then they proceed to prove it by breaking every law of man, nature, and God. Now this highly individuated hedonistic philosophy is all wrong. We are our brother's keepers, and they ours. Each of us is the product of the personalities and the cultures around him; and like it or not, the actions of each do affect others, and, to a small degree, help shape world history. Society therefore has a right to concern itself with the behavior patterns of individuals.
One of these patterns is that of drink. Alcohol is older than civilization itself, but at no time in history has it been more of a social problem than today. The speed and complexity of these times seem to have uprooted the morals of the ages and to have left man alone and confused. And in this frame of mind man often drinks. But it is the contention of this article that he has no moral right to do so; there are no individual rights apart from social welfare, and the social repercussions of the drink perversion are alone enough to condemn it.
This is not a temperance tract, however. Nor is it an attempt to moralize or preach on the subject. The effects of alcoholism upon both the individual and society are so far-reaching and so devastating that any thinking person must recognize them. Our problem is to get people to think, and then to act accordingly. Shame and fear may deter for awhile, but only knowledge, in the atmosphere of fairness and responsibility, can determine permanent directions of conduct. Temperance is not a matter of virtue alone; it is a matter of intelligence also.
Drinking In Our Day
Let no one imagine that the alcohol problem is limited to an occasional drink of a few depraved individuals. There is abundant evidence that the habit is widespread, even in our "best" communities. Figures from the Liquor Control Commission of one of our states show that over five million dollars have been spent in this state alone over the past twelve months for distilled spirits and wines; this represents nearly ten dollars per capita. In terms of gallon consumption the figure approaches one million, or an average of between one and one-half and two gallons for every man, woman, and child in the state. Furthermore, total expenditures for liquor in the state during the last twelve months increased more than a million dollars over those for the corresponding period a year ago; and none of these figures include beer, which is consumed at a rate many times that of distilled spirits and wines. Alcohol has become one of the major industries, and it is high time that we awaken to the problems it creates.
One reason for this apparent increase in liquor consumption is the war hysteria that surrounds us. In the haste and confusion of the day, many are losing their poise and moral integrity. Some are adopting a "last fling" philosophy, an "eat, drink, and be merry for tomorrow we may die" point of view. Others are turning to drink as an escape from their worry or their sorrow over the loss of a loved one. Still others are finding alcohol a tempting diversion from the monotony of their jobs and an outlet for some of their newfound money. The soldier boy is often exposed to new experiences and hardships that tempt him to drink, and being removed from the stabilizing and sobering influences of friends and loved ones at home, he too frequently yields. War is a social earthquake, and drink is one of the vultures that follow in its wake.
We must win this war, but we will never do it by alcohol. From Pearl Harbor to the present there is evidence that drink cuts down the coordinated efficiency so essential to success in modern combat. There are some today who are foolishly arguing that the soldier boys should have their liquor and other vices for the sake of morale. This is all wrong. Morale is imperative, but it cannot be built up or maintained in this way. The problem is not a choice between morality or morale; there is no necessity of choosing between the two. Morale based upon morality is the only kind that will stand up under strain and endure over time. Temperance is essential to good citizenship whether in time of war or in time of peace. May we be wise enough to realize this before it is too late.
Personal Disorganization
The entire life organization of the person who drinks is thrown off balance temporarily while under the influence of liquor, but permanently through the impact of this experience upon his personality. Drink has the tendency to dull the finer sensitivities of man and to remove his moral inhibitions. When intoxicated, man reverts to the beast. No wonder, then, that the drunkard loses caste; no wonder society comes to mistrust, pity, and even despise him.
There is a negative relationship between drink and efficiency, regardless of the activity considered. The inebriated individual may think he is doing well, but those around him know better. As a matter of fact, this deluded state of mind, which makes the drinker attempt with confidence feats that he is not qualified to execute, is one of the chief dangers of drink. We are told that gasoline and alcohol are not made to mix, and the frequent newspaper reports of automobile accidents because of drunken drivers make us realize that this is true. When hiring persons for responsible positions, employers almost universally pass by those who drink, as is well known, for drinking blunts the finer judgments and skills of its victims and leads to both irresponsibility and inefficiency.
Since drinking temporarily removes social restraint and places man back upon the animal level, it is understandable that the conduct of the drunkard is so often antisocial. Crime and delinquency are encouraged by alcohol. Sometimes the would-be delinquent drinks to secure the reckless bravado needed in execution of his contemplated crime; but more often, perhaps, the crime is unpremeditated, resulting directly from the suggestibility and the social inadequacy of the drunkard.
Sex delinquency and drink are very closely interrelated. While there is no claim that intoxication stimulates desire, it does remove the moral reserves and defenses built up in society, thus throwing individuals back upon their original impulses. It is well known that intoxication and seduction often go together; alcohol has become a means by which sex is exploited, and the growing tendency for women to drink makes this problem all the more serious. It is unfortunate that so many women in their struggle for equality with man have absorbed his vices before they have his virtues. It is true that sin, in whatever form, is equally wrong for both man and woman. But woman's position traditionally has been that of refinement and moral guidance, and unless this can be at least partially maintained, one hesitates to think what may happen to our civilization. Drinking is demoralizing for anyone, but because of her past standards and her present influence over man, drinking for woman seems to be particularly vicious. Chastity and temperance are twin virtues.
Mental disturbances are also often directly traceable to alcoholism. Every year in this country some five or six thousand persons are admitted to hospitals for mental disease under the classification of "alcoholic psychosis." In fact, this is one of the most common types of insanity, as shown by the records. But the records reveal nothing of the extent that alcohol contributes to other neurotic and psychotic conditions by contributing first of all to social maladjustment. Drink is a very real factor in the disorganization of personality; and disorganized individuals fall out of life's race early because they cannot successfully compete, or they turn anti-social, or psychopathic, and in extreme cases they even resort to suicide. Drinking is expensive whichever way one wants to look at it, but the cost in personal misery is far greater than the cost in dollars and cents.
Social Consequences
Personal and social disorganization are two different aspects of the same thing, for society is made up of individuals. When we say, therefore, that alcohol results in personal disorganization we also imply that society in general is disturbed. The individual cannot live entirely alone, as we have already said; every act he performs reverberates through the groups he belongs to, affecting loved ones, friends, and others.
As an example of this interrelationship let us look briefly at one social institution, the family. Of all groups to which man belongs, the family is the most basic to character and personality development, and for this reason it is also probably the most sensitive to neglect and abuse. The home pays dearly for the indulgences of its members, and drink is one of the most harmful vices in which men and women indulge. Under the influence of liquor men become brutes and love turns to disgust. Self-respect and mutual confidence cannot long survive. Verbal bickering frequently turns into physical attack. The family income is often squandered for liquor while innocent members are in need. Sometimes the breadwinner loses his job because of drink, and the family is left a public charge. The picture is not a happy one, but it is real; alcohol and successful home life are simply not compatible.
Similar analyses might be made concerning the effect of drink upon other social institutions; but whether one chooses to view the church, the school, the government, or some other institution, the picture is everywhere the same. This is a confused and conflicting world in which we live; and although it likely would not be perfect even though it were without drink, it would be a far, far better place than now.
Our Task
Men and women drink for many reasons, but usually there is a desire to let down, to forget worries and troubles, to escape from reality. Our task is to face the issue realistically, to teach the consequences of indulgence, and to show that there is no running away. Escapism is a delusion; problems are not solved by forgetting them during a few hours of drunken revelry. As a matter of fact, problems are usually accentuated by debauchery, and participants are weakened for the fight ahead. Our job is to know and to teach that the strength of character comes from resistance and struggle, not from indulgence.
If the alcohol problem is ever solved it will be through both education and motivation. There is too much ignorance on the effects of drink, and too much indifference toward its consequences, both private and social. Commercial interests, motivated by the desire for profit, use all sorts of artful appeals to advertise their liquor products. Those who already have the habit of drink use various social pressures for inducing others to follow suit in order to seemingly justify their own behavior and avoid social disapproval. And the public is altogether too gullible in accepting the point of view of these special-interest groups. There is a genuine need for all to understand the effects of alcoholic drink and to accept a social responsibility in its control.
Drinking is not the "smart" thing to do, although there are many who would have us think so. One does not have to take a drink in order to be a good "sport," although there are individuals and groups that like to interpret it that way. Rather the reverse is true, the "smartest" person and the best "sport" is the one who is able to resist the crowd and remain loyal to his ideals, while really the poorest "sport" of all is the one who tempts another to desert his standards for a drink or for some other indulgence under the guise of sportsmanship.
The anti-social effects of drink are many and far-reaching. Our task as Latter-day Saints, is to discover the truth in these things, and then to live by the light of this truth. Intelligent living is righteous living. We can do much to alleviate, if not eliminate, the problem of alcohol by informing ourselves of its consequences and by holding fast to the spiritual values of Mormonism for motivation.
How Shall We Preserve the Mental Health of Our Children in Wartime?
Mark K. Allen Psychologist, Utah State Training School No. IV
THE experience of England teaches us that children bear the shock of actual war at least as well as their parents. But in addition to this, perhaps the greater part of the war burden will fall on our children. A great share of the tremendous war debt will be their responsibility. The task of reconstructing a world broken by war will largely be theirs. Many of our homes will be broken by war casualties, and many children will be forced to "go it alone," like their great-grandparents did in pioneer days. Certainly no generation of children has faced a greater challenge than that faced by the generation of today. Children of today will have the task of making a world fit for democratic living. They will have the great challenge of constructing a world for their children which will be secure against aggression a better world than the world of today.
One great source of hardship for us adults during this war springs from our failure to learn that freedom cannot survive without a sense of responsibility to the group, and failure to discipline ourselves to place the public good ahead of personal convenience. Not until now that the enemy approaches our shores and for many, not even now have we begun to realize that, as Marshal Petain said of the French people after their fall, "We have been having too good a time." Parents, then, have two great challenges today: first, to save for our children the world from military bondage; and, second, to teach our children habits, attitudes, and ideals which will adequately qualify them to rebuild and live in a democratic society.
This is not an academic question of concern only to our schools, but is primarily a task for our homes. Training for freedom and responsibility begins in the cradle. It commences by teaching the child all through his growing period to do for himself everything he is able to do, and by teaching him to forget at proper times his immediate personal benefit for the good of society. This training is the forerunner of that virtue most urgently needed today; namely, willingness to give to one's government at least as much as one takes. The recent period of governmental assistance has brought to light how common is the desire to take from government benefits grossly disproportionate to what one contributes.
WITH the great challenge in mind that we must prepare our children for democratic living in the postwar world, let us consider some parental problems of the present. First of all, let us look at the mental health of the children of England. Many anxious mothers perhaps imagine that bombings, deprivation, and the general terror of war would likely make children very nervous, if not driving many to actual mental breakdown. Fortunately, there is little foundation for this fear. In England, children have lived through ruthless bombings with surprisingly few cases of actual war neuroses. In a broadcast from England last January, the following statement was made:
"Our experience ought to encourage them. The school medical officer of the county of London reported last week that there was no evidence among London children of nervous disorder or shock caused by air raids. They stood it as well as adults, maybe better. Nor did living in air-raid shelters do them any harm. We had no epidemic of disease.
"The bad effects seemed to be first on their education. When hundreds of thousands of the children were evacuated to the country, there was a shortage of school buildings. The schools were taken over for civilian defense, and a good many children got little or no education. When the problem was fully understood it was put right, and by last June nearly 98 per cent of British children were once more getting full-time schooling.
"The second bad effect was an increase in what is called juvenile delinquency, but what the ordinary parent calls 'naughtiness.' A lot more children got into trouble with the police in the first year of the war than in the last.... The causes were chiefly the breaking up of the home life and home discipline. Fathers were in the army and mothers were doing war work. Children had too much time on their hands. Not being able to go to school, the ease of stealing from bombed buildings and the excitement of the war in general helped them to misbehave."
(Quoted from an excellent bulletin of U. S. Children's Bureau, "To Parents in Wartime," page 18.)
One of the most serious effects on the English children grew out of their mass evacuation without adequate social placement services. Sometimes their own homes were destroyed or threatened and large numbers of children were moved in great haste to centers where a mother's intimate contact was lost. This uprooting of the normal affectional bonds between members of the family is the most serious mental hazard of war.
EVERY child requires three fundamental kinds of experience to maintain mental health: First, is the feeling of emotional security the feeling of being wanted, of belonging to someone who cares. Second, is the feeling that one has "a place in the sun," through his achievement a feeling of the importance of his status in society. Even small children do "cute tricks" of the "watch me" variety to give them a feeling that they are somebody. Adolescents strive earnestly, often ridiculously, to assume grownup ways. A strong desire to appear to have arrived at adult status drives many youths to use tobacco, drive automobiles recklessly, and to hide all childish emotions, however strongly they may feel them. Third, children require experiences that lead to a feeling of mastery over obstacles. The desire for mastery may be effectively utilized in the preparation of our young people for future democratic living.
Mental health in childhood can be promoted through the satisfaction of the above three needs. Consider first the need for affectional bonds. When homes are broken by fathers or brothers leaving with the armed forces, substitutes should be made whenever possible. Other adult males uncles, cousins, grandfathers should be encouraged to take an interest in the children. Church and other community leaders may play a part here. The Scout master and Sunday school teacher have a special opportunity. Mothers who become occupied with war work whether full-time defense work or part-time community service should devote themselves more actively than usual during the hours they can spend with the children to preserve in them a sense of emotional security. Since nothing contributes more to juvenile delinquency than conditions which make a child feel unwanted or that he does not "belong" in the hearts of others, all mothers should carefully weigh the relative value to the national welfare of doing defense work compared with the contribution they might make as mothers. We are trying to win this war for the future generation but let us not lose for democracy this future generation in our zeal to win the war.
Second, the child's need for a feeling of status or importance can be effectively utilized during the war effort. Many civilian assignments can, and should, be given to children. Special titles such as "Junior Aircraft Spotter" or "Member Junior Red Cross" often mean a great deal to the child. Cooperative projects in which children are organized for war work help to protect the child against anxiety because he can share his fears with others his age, and he can make some concrete contributions to the war effort, thereby dispelling his fears. The following excerpt from a report on last year's war work of children in Toronto, Canada, indicates the scope of projects children can engage in with great personal satisfaction as well as substantial value to the war effort:
"The school children sold war savings stamps and certificates of a total value of $333,641.08, and, in addition, they raised $44,000 for 38 war-work agencies. They collected 23,000 books and 143,000 magazines, and sent this reading material to troops in training. They made thousands of articles, including socks, mufflers, and gloves for the soldiers, sailors, and airmen. They wrote more than 8,000 letters to ex-pupils now in active service. They collected aluminum pots and pans, lead foil, scrap metal, and leather in large quantities for war industries. One school cancelled a quantity of war savings stamps and burned a $50 bond as a contribution to the war effort. Many schools provided taggers for the Red Cross, Navy League, and Greek Refugee tag days."
(Clarence M. Hincks, The Child in War Time, page 33, published by National Committee for Mental Hygiene, Canada.)
The child's third great need the need for a sense of mastery or achievement can be met very well through such civilian war activities as those mentioned above. Children may get considerable enjoyment out of learning new skills in making war articles (knitted goods, repaired clothing, and toys for evacuated children), and in administering first aid; for older children, an acquiring of fundamental knowledge and skill in radio operation, weather forecasting, and plane construction and maintenance brings keen enjoyment. War activities in which the family or social group can participate are especially valuable. The judicious parent can find some interesting activity for almost every age group. Already many of our children are engaged in some of the following activities: defense bond and stamp campaigns, relief fund drives, salvage campaigns, sewing and knitting projects, farm labor replacements (beet thinning, fruit gathering, weeding, and heavier farm work for the older boys), fruit canning, fruit conservation, and fuel gathering. The importance of this work will increase as the man-power problem increases.
IN addition to provision for the satisfaction of the child's needs for a feeling of emotional security through affection, a sense of status through appropriate assignments in war work, and a sense of achievement through acquiring useful skills and through other worth-while accomplishments, a parent should consider also the question of how to discuss the war with children. Some mothers would say, "Oh, it is too horrible. Why worry the child with something he can do nothing about?" These mothers may not permit the child to hear radio reports nor to read nor discuss the war news. Plausible as this practice may seem, child-guidance experts are fairly well agreed that children should be frankly told the realities of the war. To withhold war information is fraught with the same dangers as withholding sex information. The important consideration in either case is that attempts to "hush" the child's questions simply whet his curiosity, and there are always other children who will misinform the child whose mother refuses to inform him. One reason parents would withhold information is that they imagine the child will view events with a full realization of their seriousness, which they often do not. On the other hand, it is sometimes thought that the child will fear quite remote dangers more than he should. What the parent should do is to fit the news to the child's perspective. Reports of new invasions in Europe often meant to the child that the enemy was now on the next street about ready to invade his own playground and bedroom. In such cases, maps and careful explanations of distances and time of travel involved should be given. On the other hand, should actual danger approach, children should be realistically prepared for the worst. Children can bear a great deal if they are wisely prepared for it. They should be as well prepared as possible to help themselves and others should emergencies arise. This teaching should not be done with alarm nor in an atmosphere of panic and desperation, but in the cool, sensible manner in which one would prepare for any difficult undertaking. Then, it is even likely to be fun for the children.
Children respond more to their parents' attitudes than they do to the dangers themselves. A mother's anxiety untempered with reason will engender more fear in children than many real dangers. Children will usually stand up under trying situations as well, and only as well, as their parents. Children of all ages may be inclined to feel ashamed of their fears. They often taunt one another about their anxieties to the point that a child may learn to conceal his emotion. Fear may be both normal and serviceable a preparation of the body and mind to meet dangerous emergencies. Children's fears should be respected, and the child should be encouraged to discuss them in order that the parent may be guided in helping him to base his fears on truth and in teaching him how best to meet real emergencies. Don't ridicule a child's fears, but give him information that will make his fears serviceable rather than a hindrance to him. The first condition, of course, in the wise management of children's fears is the proper management of our own. This means intelligently facing realities.
A CHILDREN'S CHARTER IN WARTIME
Report Adopted March 18, 1942, by the Children's Bureau Commission on Children in Wartime
WE are in total war against the aggressor nations. We are fighting again for human freedom and especially for the future of our children in a free world.
CHILDREN must be safeguarded and they can be safeguarded in the midst of this total war so that they can live and share in that future. They must be nourished, sheltered, and protected even in the stress of war production so that they will be strong to carry forward a just and lasting peace.
OUR American Republics sprang from a sturdy yearning for tolerance, independence, and self-government. The American home has emerged from the search for freedom. Within it the child lives and learns through his own efforts the meaning and responsibilities of freedom.
WE have faith in the children of the New World faith that if our generation does its part now, they will renew the living principles in our common life, and make the most of them. Both as a wartime responsibility and as stepping-stones to our future and to theirs we call upon citizens, young and old, to join together to 
I. Guard children from injury in danger zones.
II. Protect children from neglect, exploitation, and undue strain in defense areas.
III. Strengthen the home life of children whose parents are mobilized for war or war production.
IV. Conserve, equip, and free children of every race and creed to take their part in democracy.
 Reprinted from The Child Monthly News Summary Vol. 6, No. 10 (April 1942), U. S. Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C.
Bend in the River
Iris Schow
WITH mathematical precision, Natalie Gibson eased her smart navy and red hat to a perky angle, bestowing on her reflection a fleeting yet critical inspection. "I really must dash, Mom," she asserted. "No time to talk about whether or not it's for my 'best good' to join your Relief Society." Snatching her purse and gloves, she terminated Mrs. Reed's protest with a quick kiss and almost ran out to her roadster.
Bessie Reed moved to the window, struggling to shape into a smile the lines of disappointment on her face as she watched her graceful blond daughter drive away. It hurt, being put off, left in the middle of what she wanted to say. She knew that she, in turn, was being watched by her own aged, almost helpless mother, who sat in a comfortable chair near the window.
"Another party!" said Grandma Fuller. "Natalie goes to so many, you'd think she couldn't help but tire of them."
"She isn't really the frivolous type, Mother," said Bessie mildly. She sat down and picked up her handwork mechanically. "It's just that Natalie doesn't know what to do with herself since Joel died. This continual gadding is her way of finding something to occupy her mind. She doesn't get any real satisfaction from it."
"I know. Haven't I been through the same thing myself?" Grandma Fuller leaned forward a little, speaking earnestly. "Why, when your father died, I felt lost, Bessie. Losing your husband changes the whole pattern of your existence. It's as if the river of your life had to make a great bend and strike a new course through strange woods and thickets. You feel unable to realize where you are going. But, of course, I had you six children to bring up and the farm to keep running. There wasn't much time to grieve, with a dozen tasks always staring me in the face."
"Sometimes I almost wish Natalie had to work to support herself and Ruth," said Bessie anxiously. "With her knowledge of home economics, she could fill a position with the Farm Bureau extension service, but Joel's interest in the Gibson Woolen Mills gives her an ample income. I had thought that if I could only get her to come with me to Relief Society, she might feel that she could make a real contribution to our studies, especially in nutrition. That would give her a more wholesome social interest. But you've seen the response I get...."
"She isn't unkind about it, just indifferent," pointed out Grandma Fuller.
"But indifference is so hard to overcome," Bessie stated wearily. "And now there's the Relief Society festival a big event to honor the beginning of the Society's second hundred years of service. We've worked and planned for this for weeks. All the sisters are to bring their daughters. When I think of sitting up there as secretary, without Natalie along, sometimes I feel that I just can't go through it...." Bessie's voice broke. She rose hastily, clinching her jaws together in a frantic effort to keep back the tears. "Well," she stated, attempting nonchalance, "I'll have to scat for the kitchen, or there'll be no dinner."
Left alone, Grandma Fuller sat very still, her wrinkled chin drooping toward her chest. She understood what her daughter had left unsaid; pride kept Bessie from urging Natalie to come to the Relief Society party "for the sake of mother." She respected that pride. If only Natalie could understand what membership in the Relief Society has meant to the women of our family since pioneer days, thought Grandma Fuller. If I could help her see how that glorious sisterhood has sustained us in our sorrows and prompted us to develop our best qualities in order to help others.... Once she realized these things, she would want to join.
Grandma Fuller's intent brown eyes did not see the pleasant residential street outside the window; she was looking back, down the avenues of memory. She thought of her mother, pregnant, jolting across the prairies toward Zion, forgetful of personal discomfort in her efforts to aid her "sisters in the Gospel." She remembered her own young womanhood, her discouraging life on the farm. Surely she would have given up to her longing for town life, but for the heartening example of the handful of Relief Society members out there. And Bessie, what would have sustained her back in 1917, when her sons had gone to war, if she had not shared in the faith and work of the sisterhood? Even now, it was largely because of the Relief Society activities that Bessie was so remarkably well-informed. Grandma Fuller's chin rose purposefully. The responsibility belonged to her as well as to Bessie. She would do her best to help Natalie understand.
NEXT morning while Natalie tidied the living room, Grandma Fuller related memories of the past. "I wasn't born till '56, two months after Pa and Ma reached the Valley," she said, "but my sister Minnie was quite a big girl when they crossed the plains. She used to tell me how one night when she was left alone in the wagon with Joey and Rube Pa and Ma were both tending the sick she woke up to find Ma peeling off the wagon cover in a regular downpour of rain. Ma needed it to shelter a sister who was having a baby their covered wagon was leaking badly. Well, with what help Minnie could give her, Ma took that cover down, in her condition, mind you. The children huddled together, while Minnie carried out Ma's directions to protect them as best she could with quilts and coats spread over boxes and the wagon seat. The sisters saved the mother and babe that night, with the help of the Lord, and Ma's children were none the worse for their exposure to the storm. That's what Relief Society meant then."
"Life must have been very hard in those days," murmured Natalie, the tenderness which had once characterized her expression crossing her face for an instant.
Inwardly welcoming this good sign, Grandma Fuller continued telling incidents which illustrated her own and Bessie's reasons for their devotion to the Relief Society. "And so for three generations," she concluded, "the women of our family have done whatever the Relief Society has requested. We have never overlooked an hour's service or missed giving a bushel of wheat that's been asked of us. And we've been well repaid, too, in increased usefulness and information and happiness. That's why I hope you won't pass up the Relief Society, Natalie. I feel sure it can mean as much to you as it has to any of us."
"Sweet old Grandma," said Natalie, giving her grandmother's shoulders an affectionate little hug, "sooner or later I'll join your Relief Society, of course. But there's no special rush. I have plenty of friends to keep my time occupied, and nobody here in the ward really needs my help. It isn't as if we were crossing the plains or settling the state. If real want and hardship should come, you know I'd do whatever I could to help. So don't trouble your pretty head about me." Natalie's blue eyes sparkled as she gave Grandma Fuller a twinkling smile that was disarmingly affectionate.
Grandma Fuller had not given up. "But, Natalie, on Tuesday there's the festival in honor of the beginning of Relief Society's second one hundred years. They're going to act out an original play. The first act is to show how the Society was organized back in Nauvoo in 1842. The other acts will show how the various lesson departments are conducted. There's to be an act about literature, and one about the work-and-business department they study about nutrition in this department and...."
"Yes, Grandma, Mom was telling us about it at the table the other day." Natalie's manner was still playfully affectionate.
"Why don't you go to it, Natalie?" Grandma Fuller asked eagerly. "Then you could see a sample of each lesson department, and you'd know how the Relief Society has kept up with the times. Why, Eva Brent Laine teaches the literary lessons now she's married, and she's a well-educated member of your generation, dear."
"Oh, Eva Brent," said Natalie, "literary lessons and dramatizations are her idea of fun, but I'm afraid I'd find them a little stuffy." Then, noticing Grandma Fuller's look of disappointment, she added appeasingly, "But I'll see. Maybe if I'm not too rushed by Tuesday...." She hurried away.
GRANDMA FULLER sensed that this was not a promise. By Tuesday morning she could see that Natalie had forgotten the conversation. She had related memories of some of her best experiences and spoken of her most sacred ideals, but she had failed to make Natalie see. Why? It was not as if Natalie were opposed to religion. She would have protested vehemently if her fourteen-year-old daughter Ruth had not been in regular attendance at Sunday school. Why had she not responded?
Grandma Fuller leaned back in her chair, apparently relaxed, but her mind was very busy. Suddenly she remembered the excuse Natalie had given. "Nobody here in the ward really needs my help," she had said. She thought that she was not needed. That was why she put off real duties in favor of trivial pleasures. But someone did need Natalie at the celebration. Grandma Fuller thought of Bessie's hurt look when she had spoken of going as an officer to help entertain the daughters, without bringing her own daughter.
Suppose Grandma Fuller told Natalie just how Bessie felt, could she resist this appeal? Once she saw the play and understood the comprehensive program of the Relief Society, once she entered the presence of this great sisterhood, would she not feel the spirit there and respond to it? Grandma Fuller resolved to try again.
Bessie was at the tabernacle, helping with the advance preparations for serving the refreshments that afternoon. Knowing her mother would be late for lunch, Natalie had prepared the meal. When she came to help Grandma Fuller walk to the dining room, the older woman decided to make a final appeal.
"Are you figuring on going to the Relief Society social this afternoon, Natalie?" Grandma Fuller's voice was steady, but inwardly she felt alarmingly timorous.
"I'm afraid I can't make it," said Natalie lightly. "Grace is giving a party for Roxie Phillips today, and I've promised to assist in serving. It's rather an important occasion. Some other time, I may...."
"Natalie, my dear," said Grandma Fuller distinctly, "I don't believe you understand what it will do to your mother if you stay away from the festival today. You see, every member is expected to bring her daughters, and since your mother is an officer, it will be very noticeable if you aren't there. Bessie won't say this to you; she wouldn't want me to. If you don't come of your own accord, she will stand up to it alone. But she needs you at her side today."
Natalie said nothing. Her facial muscles were strangely tense. Well, thought Grandma Fuller, I had to risk offending her. I must wait. I must be patient.
The old lady grasped the arms of her chair and summoned all her strength in an effort to rise. Natalie's competent, steadying hands came out to help her. The women moved slowly toward the dining room. Natalie broke the expectant silence.
"I hadn't thought of how it would look for Mother. I've just been thinking of myself, I guess, and hating to face the too hearty greeting I'd be sure to get from our ward president. I'm positive she'd be noxious and say, 'I'm so glad to see you out to meeting at last,' or she might even strike a gay note by saying, 'Well, well, Natalie, long time no see.' But I guess I can take it for once. Of course I'll go. They can always find someone else who wants to assist in serving."
As they entered the dining room Natalie was saying gaily, "And what time does this said Relief Society celebration start? I mustn't be late."
Ruth, who was filling the glasses, gesticulated impulsively with the water pitcher. Her brown eyes sparkled as she interrupted eagerly, "Oh, Momie, are you going? Well, that's just absolutely perfect. All the kids in our crowd are going with their mothers. Ethel coaxed me to come with her mother too, but I didn't think that would look so.... And, Momie, it starts at four o'clock, but I can make it after school."
Grandma Fuller gave thanks silently that Ruth, too, needed Natalie. But late in the afternoon, when they had gone to the tabernacle, leaving her alone, fears assailed her. Would Natalie think that going this once satisfied the whole need? Would she think it was a "stuffy" social? Would the influence of her present associates triumph? I have done all I can, thought Grandma Fuller, except one thing. She could not rise alone and kneel, but never had she uttered a more fervent plea. "Our Heavenly Father, please help Natalie know the importance of Thy work. When my parents crossed the plains, their real purpose was to help establish Thy Church and people here in Utah. For this they pressed on in spite of heat or storms, want or sickness. For this they grappled with the desert and made it fruitful. Now, if their descendants turn from the real spirit of Thy gospel and fail to carry on Thy work, by just that much the struggle of my parents is lost. I have tried my best to help Natalie understand. Now I ask Thy help, that her mind will be open, that she will see...." prayed Grandma Fuller in all humility. When she had finished, she felt very calm. It was easier now to wait.
RUTH appeared first. "Peachy time, Gran'ma Fuller; good eats! I served!" she called as she clattered upstairs. The others came in together. With the fatigued smile of one who has helped put over a successful festival, Bessie hastened away to change her best dress. Natalie perched on the arm of a chair.
"It was good seeing Ruth out with her crowd, Grandma; I'm glad I went." Natalie smiled reminiscently. "The solemn way those kids served everybody, and the innocent pranks they were pulling as they ate up the left-overs in the kitchen it was just like the fun I used to have when I went to the socials with Mom. I'm glad Ruth's best friends are Latter-day Saint girls."
This was all very well, but Natalie had not said what Grandma Fuller wanted most to hear. She waited anxiously.
"And the ward officers," continued Natalie, "didn't act a bit patronizing. They are so natural and sweet. Sister Stratt, the second counselor, and I got to talking about nutrition, and she asked me if I would prepare some talks and outlines on balanced diet, to give to the ward welfare workers. She has charge of the foods, you know, and there's such a lot to do. I'm going to help wherever I can, both in the Church welfare and the Relief Society. Isn't it surprising how the Church has kept up with the needs of the people under present conditions? I'm glad you sent me over to find out what the Relief Society really is doing!"
Natalie's smile was easy; the old tense expression was gone.
"Father, I thank Thee," whispered Grandma Fuller; "my grandchild has passed the bend in the river. The course of her life runs through verdant, productive land."
In Retrospect
President Amy Brown Lyman
CHAPTER VIII HOMESTEADER, TRAVELER, LEGISLATOR, COUNSELOR
Homesteading
BEING the daughter of a pioneer, it was quite appropriate for me to have the pioneering experience which came to me in the summer of 1911 when I helped to homestead a farm in the desert (virgin soil) in eastern Millard County near what is now Delta, Utah. My father-in-law, Francis M. Lyman, president of the Council of the Twelve, who had never used his homestead right, also participated in this project. He was enthusiastic about it, for his home for many years had been in Millard County. Both of these homesteads were located near the high and practically vertical banks of the Sevier River President Lyman's on one side of the river and ours on the other.
My husband pictured the proposed undertaking as a rare opportunity for us to acquire a farm under the reservoir which he, as chief engineer, had helped to construct. And besides, he thought it would be a most interesting experience, especially for me and the children, getting us out of the city and into the open country for a period. He regretted, of course, that his teaching at the University of Utah and his private engineering work would keep him in the city most of the time, but he assured us he would do his best to be with us each week end. Knowing my fear of being alone at night, even in our own home, and my fear of mice and snakes, especially of rattle snakes (one of which was killed near our tent), he promised to take along with us our young nephew-carpenter to protect me and the children and to construct our tent-house which would be made proof against flies, bugs, mice, and snakes. He said we would also be provided with good, comfortable beds, a coal-oil stove, and other necessities, and whatever conveniences could be provided in a tent. He explained that of course culinary water could not be provided on the place, but arrangement would be made to have it brought to us once each week in clean containers, and poured into a large barrel which, in order to keep the water cool, would be set part way into the ground.
Our family, which consisted of my husband, myself, two children, and our nephew, were on the ground with our horses and wagon and plow, ready to procure (seize) a tract of land at the very moment settlement on the reservation would be permitted. Promptly at twelve o'clock midnight, or the morning of the opening, the scramble began. After plowing around the tract of land (120 acres) which we had chosen, we began immediately to build our tent-house which had a tongue-and-grooved floor with lumber walls up to a height of about four feet. Above the boards was carefully fitted wire screen, and on top of all was placed the tent which was supported by a framework of timber. The canvas walls of the tent could be opened or closed, being cut at the corners up to the square. When closed, they were securely fastened to the wooden wall; and when open, these flaps, which were attached to horizontal poles, could be either rolled up or stretched out to form awnings. A second large canvas covering, six to eight inches above the tent proper, made the tent cool and was additional protection from rain.
The tent-house we felt was quite adequate and satisfactory, but we soon found that it would not protect us from the simoons or sandstorms which blew up often in this treeless and, except for the sagebrush, practically verdureless plain. After each of these storms, it was necessary to clean house to shake all the bedding and clothing and wash all the dishes and even then it seemed impossible to get rid of the sand. Aside from these special windstorms, there was nearly always enough breeze to put out the fire in the stove, making the stove almost useless for cooking. It was therefore necessary for me to dig a small trench outside the house, place a flat sheet iron over it, build a fire under this not an easy task and attempt to do my cooking there. The wind interfered even with this contraption, and after trying one whole day to cook a rabbit which had been given to us by a fellow homesteader, I decided to provide and to prepare food which required little or no cooking. We had to go to the country store, three or four miles away, for groceries and bread. All four of us would make the trip, because each was afraid to stay without the others in the tent-house on the homestead. We usually walked, which was no doubt good for us, because our little single-horse cart would not hold us.
We did not relish the drinking water very much, which was never very cool or appetizing; especially was this the case with me after I found my little Margaret one Monday morning, dipping into the barrel our sick dog's dish (an old sardine can) for a fresh drink for the dog. I immediately dipped off the top of the water, but it was necessary to use the rest, since the new supply did not come until the end of the week. Boiling the water, of course, made us feel much better about drinking it. The dog was a homeless, half-blind stray dog which had wandered into our camp. We couldn't drive him away because there was no place for him to go, so we allowed him to live with us and tried to help him regain his health.
Our nearest neighbor, Grandfather Lyman, came every few days to see how we were getting on. Another very interesting and welcome visitor who called on two occasions was a Relief Society worker, Mary M. Lyman, a resident of Delta, appointed the next year (1912) to serve as Relief Society stake president in the newly-organized Deseret Stake. She was a typical pioneer wife and mother, used to hardships and sacrifices, but blessed with seven fine children. She was also a typical product of the Church, and a devoted Church worker, true to her religious ideals and to the Gospel, and experienced in unselfish Church and community service. Although deprived of many of the opportunities and advantages of city living, her life was nevertheless rich and successful. A graduate of the old University of Deseret, where she made a fine record, and a constant, habitual reader, she was well informed. She always made time for serious study and for keeping up with current thought through books and magazines.
A visit with her in our tent-house in the desert was as interesting and informative as many I have had with women in important positions and in more pretentious places. What a debt of gratitude we all owe to our Church which emphasizes the teaching that the glory of God is intelligence and gives such rich opportunities for intellectual and spiritual development.
After two months, since nobody contested our right to the land, we were permitted under a desert entry to purchase the 120 acres at $1.25 per acre, and to return home.
Trip To California
In February, 1919, a rare treat came to my husband and me when President and Sister Grant invited us to accompany them to Los Angeles for a three-weeks' midwinter holiday at Deseret, the lovely, hospitable home which had for a number of years served as a vacation home for the President of the Church. President and Sister Anthony W. Ivins, always genial and interesting companions, were also members of the house party. Other dear and close friends to all of us, also visiting in Los Angeles at that same time, were Bishop and Sister Charles W. Nibley and Brother and Sister Franklin S. Richards, who joined us frequently at Deseret.
The visit was very pleasurable from first to last. It is an inspiration as well as a pleasure to be in the home of President and Sister Grant, for theirs has always been a home of refinement and a household of faith and devotion to the Gospel. And there could be no lovelier host and hostess. For guests in their home there is perfect freedom and ease, as the many can testify who have been entertained by them at their cottage in Brighton. For hospitality, generosity, and friendliness, they cannot be surpassed. Their hearts and homes have always been open to their friends. It has been the practice of their whole lives to share their pleasures with others. One cannot imagine President Grant seeking pleasure off by himself or for himself alone. His box in the old Salt Lake Theatre was always filled with friends, as was also his nine-passenger automobile, when a ride in an auto was a rare experience. This auto was one of the first to be owned in the State of Utah.
President Grant's days had been such busy and crowded ones since his succession to the Presidency of the Church the previous November (1918), that he was much in need of a rest. A vacation for the President of the Church, however, is almost impossible. During this "vacation" in California, President Grant was almost constantly holding interviews with business men and Church officials, but still he found a few free hours each day for relaxation, and he entered into his partial holiday with the same spirit, energy, and interest which was characterized all of the undertakings of his life.
The gentlemen of the party played golf each morning on week days while the ladies watched from the sidelines. In the afternoons we went for long rides about the country, and in the evenings we were occupied with callers in the home when there were no conferences or meetings to attend. One pleasant day followed another in quick succession, and this extremely happy visit ended all too soon.
HOMESTEAD TENT-HOUSE OF LYMAN FAMILY, MILLARD COUNTY, UTAH Left to right: Wendell B. Lyman (in cart), Margaret Lyman (Schreiner), the dog, Amy B. Lyman, Jean R. Driggs
Hawaiian Trip
When President and Mrs. Anthony W. Ivins visited the Hawaiian Mission in the summer of 1924, my husband and I were invited to accompany them. The other members of the party were their daughter Fulvia, now Mrs. Lawrence Sloan, and her schoolmate friend, Miss Bae Williams, daughter of President Clarissa S. Williams. It was the month of June and an ideal time for a trip on the great Pacific Ocean, which, after the first two days, was calm and peaceful. My diary speaks of the interest and enthusiasm of this party of six, "none of whom had previously visited the Islands, none of whom had ever had a sea voyage, and all of whom were thrilled with the prospects of a visit to this 'Paradise of the Pacific.'"
The usual six days were required for the voyage, at the end of which the party was received with that welcome, hearty and unique, such as only Hawaii can extend. Elder Eugene Neff was at that time president of the mission, Elder William Waddoups, president of the Temple, and Elder Antoine R. Ivins, manager of the great sugar plantation which was then owned by the Church. These brethren, with their charming and hospitable wives, and Elder Ralph Woolley, then chairman of the public utilities commission of the Territory and now president of the Oahu Stake, showed us every attention and saw to it that we did not miss anything of interest and importance. His wife, Romania Hyde Woolley, daughter of my precious friend and co-worker, Jeannette A. Hyde, was on the mainland at that time, but we had a happy visit to her lovely home upon invitation of her husband, President Woolley.
President Ivins and Doctor Lyman were soon extremely busy with Church business, and we were all busy attending mission and Relief Society conferences and other meetings, but with it we all found time to enjoy the many interesting sights and the unique social features provided for us by the Hawaiian people, who are so genial, gracious, unselfish, and hospitable.
We spent three weeks on the Islands one week at Honolulu, one at Laie in the old mission home near the Temple, and one on an inter-island trip. We found the missionaries on the Temple grounds busy with tourists, as sight-seeing buses and touring cars all stopped here to view this beautiful spot on the trip around the island of Oahu. Although we had read about Hawaii and her people and had heard much from our returned missionaries, there were many surprises for us. We had known that the mission was opened by George Q. Cannon in 1850 seventy-four years before but had not realized all that the Gospel has meant to the country as a whole, as well as to the Hawaiian people, one-third of whom were members of the Church. We found to our surprise that Hawaiians and Part Hawaiians together formed less than one-sixth of the population of the Islands at that time. Today, the proportion is even less, with 14,000 pure Hawaiians and 52,000 part Hawaiians composing about one-seventh of the present total population of nearly half a million. Making up the rest of the population are 160,000 Japanese, 150,000 whites, 52,000 Filipinos, 30,000 Chinese, and smaller numbers of several other groups.
The Latter-day Saint plantation school which was in operation at the time of our visit, but which has since been absorbed into the public school system, was a typical example of the variety of races in a given group. The school was taught by our women missionaries. "There were 170 pupils in attendance, made up of the following races: Hawaiian, Japanese, Samoan, Puerto Rican, Chinese, Filipino, American, Tongan, Spanish, Filipino-Spanish, Hawaiian-Irish, Hawaiian-American, Hawaiian-Chinese, Hawaiian-Japanese, Hawaiian-Samoan, Hawaiian-Indian, English-Hawaiian-Chinese-Spanish, Chinese-Hawaiian-Norwegian. There were also some Negro-Hawaiian-Irish, Portuguese, and Korean children in the neighborhood near the plantation, who did not attend day school, but who came occasionally to Sunday School."
Since the recent tragedy at Pearl Harbor, the attention of the whole world has been focused on this group of twelve islands and their importance to the United States proper, for they form the junction of most of the steamer routes across the Pacific, and are in reality the "key to the Pacific" and the "gateway to the Orient."
Our anticipations with respect to such a trip with such delightful traveling companions had been great, but the realization was even greater. It was a pleasure and a real privilege to be so closely associated with President and Sister Ivins whose lives and experiences had been so rich. A great reader and an expert and charming story-teller, President Ivins entertained and thrilled us during those long and pleasant days on the ocean, and everywhere his love of nature, including human nature, was evident during our stay in the Islands. He was invited by the captain of the ship to speak at the Sunday services both going and coming, and his addresses were listened to with rapt attention by his fellow passengers.
ELDER AND MRS. RICHARD R. LYMAN AND PRESIDENT AND MRS. ANTHONY W. IVINS AS THEY LEFT HAWAII
Experience in State Legislature
Being elected to and serving in the state legislature is an interesting experience. Early one morning in the fall of 1922, I was called on the telephone by my close personal friend, Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, national Republican committeewoman from Utah, who asked if I would be willing for my name to come before the Republican convention that afternoon as a candidate for the House of Representatives. This was a great surprise to me, for while I had always been interested in public affairs and had rarely missed an opportunity to vote, I had taken no active part in politics. She told how the women had worked half of the night before at a caucus in order to get the approval of the male members to place the names of a few women on the list to be presented to the convention the next day. I consulted my husband and a few friends, who saw no reason for my refusing, so I complied with the request.
After receiving the nomination, I found that there were certain responsibilities I must assume at once. First, there was a campaign contribution to make. Next, I was expected to help with the campaign itself by going wherever I was sent, both early and late in the day, to speak before political meetings. To me this was a very difficult task. I found that I was expected to point out the virtues of one party and the weaknesses of the other, and to answer questions and arguments of all sorts. When I heard the chairman of the women's division of the National Democratic Party at the Women's Centennial held in New York in 1940, assert that one reason why women have not been advanced more rapidly politically is because "they have not been willing to take the rough and tumble of a political campaign," I readily agreed with her.
It was soon evident to me that I was not very well informed with respect to politics and political procedures, and not sufficiently familiar with the issues of the campaign to speak very intelligently upon them, so I decided to talk mostly about women. I called attention to the fact that since leadership is always scarce and since the supply had been increased by the emancipation of women, we should look among women's groups for new leaders, especially in certain fields; that women are a great asset to any humanitarian cause because they have a special and different viewpoint, which is based on their experience as mothers and homemakers; that their ability as directors and administrators is often apparent when they are left widows and therefore are required to manage their own business and family affairs; that they are especially needed in legislative bodies where the laws are made because of their special knowledge of human needs and humanistic rights. I held that men, who must provide for their families and for the development of communities, are naturally and necessarily interested in lands, mines, flocks, herds, property ownership and rights, and property protection, while women are inclined to think more about education, health, recreation, morals, and character; also, that most of the social legislation of late years has had behind it the influence of the mothers of the nation, and therefore legislative bodies should not be made up entirely of men; that there should be enough women to foster and secure necessary humanitarian social action.
There were, in the 1923 session of the legislature, four women in all one in the Senate, and three in the House. We were all treated very courteously, we were shown great respect by the male members, and we received appointments on important committees. I was made chairman of the public health committee, vice-chairman of the education committee, and a member of the labor and appropriations committees. I had the honor and great satisfaction of introducing in the House the bill which provided for the acceptance by the State of Utah of the Federal provision for maternity and infancy care, known as the Sheppard-Towner bill. The provisions of this act made it possible to promote the fine programs later adopted in many of the states which pointed out the needs throughout the country for better care for mothers and babies, and with which program the Relief Society branches in the Western States cooperated by helping to equip and operate well-baby and health clinics using the interest on the wheat fund for this purpose. As a result of this awakened interest, the infant and maternity death rates were greatly reduced.
I also had the pleasure of promoting the measure which authorized and empowered the regents of the University of Utah and the board of trustees of the Utah State Agricultural College to assist the faculty members in these institutions to procure old-age annuities.
My experience in the legislature gave me a greater respect and admiration for women in public life than I had had before. I found them conscientious and honorable. I found that they voted according to their own convictions, that they could not be intimidated or coerced, and that they would not accept bribes of any kind. I found women as willing and as able to work as men, often more open-minded than men, less involved with promises, and equally painstaking.
Paid lobbyists and promoters are on hand at every session of the legislature to try to persuade, intimidate, and bribe legislators. They send gifts of various kinds and do everything possible to put legislators under obligation to them so that they can influence the voting. I am firmly convinced that any legislative body is benefited by the presence of good and able women.
GROUP OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ON ROADSIDE, KONA, HAWAII Left to right, standing: Elder Henry J. Dehaun, President Eugene J. Neff, Elder Walter N. Steffens, Elder William W. McCune, Elizabeth S. Ivins, President Anthony W. Ivins, Fulvia Ivins, Bae Williams, Dr. Richard R. Lyman, Vilate Ivins, Amy B. Lyman. Kneeling in front is a group of Hawaiian children.
First Counselor in General Presidency
In October 1928, with the reorganization of the General Presidency of the Relief Society and the General Board, I was called to be first counselor to President Louise Y. Robison, in which capacity I served for eleven years, or until December 1939. Two of these years, however, were spent in the mission field where I directed the women's work of the European mission.
While a counselor to Sister Robison, I was chiefly engaged in directing and conducting social welfare institutes, and in collecting data for and preparing the Handbook of the Relief Society, which was published by the General Board in 1931. I was appointed by President Williams to perform this task and her parting wish was that the work be not delayed, since it had been her ambition for many years to have prepared a "ready reference" on Relief Society work.
In the institute work, which was conducted in most of the stakes of the Church, I was assisted from time to time by the following named sisters who, in the order named, served as supervisors of the Relief Society Welfare Department: Cora Kasius, Genevieve Thornton, Annie D. Palmer, and Amy W. Evans. In the preparation of the Handbook I was assisted by Annie Wells Cannon, then a member of the General Board, and by Vera White Pohlman, now the general secretary of the Relief Society and formerly assistant to the general secretary.
Sister Robison first came to the General Board as second counselor to President Williams in 1921. In this capacity she served seven years, until her appointment as general president. During that time she was the active manager of the Burial Clothes Department, where she served efficiently, and where she met and comforted the bereaved and sorrowing. While chairman of the teachers' message committee in 1926-1927, she led out in a beautification campaign which stimulated this work throughout the whole organization.
As general president, Sister Robison spent full time in the Relief Society office, and in addition to her duties and responsibilities as president she acted not only as manager of the Burial Clothes Department but also as manager of the Magazine, and from 1934 to 1939 as manager of the Welfare Department also. During her administration, Relief Society choruses and choirs were specially featured and developed, and today, under the designation of "Relief Society Singing Mothers," these organizations are functioning in practically all of the stakes of the Church and in many of the missions. The term "Singing Mothers" was first applied to a Relief Society chorus which, under the direction of Charlotte O. Sackett, furnished the music at the general conference of Relief Society in April 1933. From this time until released in 1940 this central chorus rendered service with outstanding success and impressiveness, setting a high standard for stake and local choruses. Prior to organization of the Central Relief Society chorus which was designated "Singing Mothers," a Relief Society choir, under the direction of Lizzie Thomas Edward, had functioned for 18 years from 1914 to 1930. This central choir was released in favor of stake choruses, as was again done in 1940.
One of the most important pieces of work sponsored by Sister Robison was the erection of the Relief Society Monument in Nauvoo, Illinois, in 1933, commemorating the organization of the Society in that city in the year 1842. The Monument is located near the site where stood the building in which this important event took place. The dedication of this Monument July 26, 1933, was a most impressive and important ceremony. The official representatives of the General Board at the dedicatory services were Sister Robison and her two counselors, Julia A. Child, the second counselor, and myself, Julia A. F. Lund, the general secretary, and Mary C. Kimball, editor of the Relief Society Magazine. Among other officials in attendance were the Honorable George Albert Smith of the Council of the Twelve, President Samuel O. Bennion, at that time president of the Central States Mission and now a member of the First Council of Seventy, and his wife; a number of other mission presidents and their wives; Frederick M. Smith, president of the Reorganized Church and a grandson of the Prophet Joseph Smith, who was accompanied by his three sisters and other descendants of the Prophet; Ruth May Fox, president of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and her counselor, Clarissa A. Beesley; May Anderson, president of the Primary Association, and her counselor, Belle S. Ross; and Elder John Giles, of the Presiding Bishop's Office. A large delegation of Latter-day Saints, organized into an excursion and under the direction of Vida Fox Clawson, also attended the exercises.
In connection with this trip to Nauvoo, the general officers of the women's auxiliaries of the Church also attended the great International Congress of Women which was held at the World's Fair "A Century of Progress" in Chicago.
Under Sister Robison's direction and supervision, a project in handicraft for women was launched in 1937, and under the direct management of Kate M. Barker, second counselor after the death of Julia A. Child, it grew and developed into a very creditable institution, now well and popularly known as "Mormon Handicraft Shop."
Sister Robison came to the position of general president well qualified for the work. The daughter of a bishop Thomas Yates, of Scipio Ward and of a Relief Society stake president, Elizabeth Frances Yates, of Millard Stake, she came from a home where there was devotion to the Gospel and reverence for things sacred, and where Church standards were strictly observed. Her parents had left their home in England for the Gospel, and they taught their children that the Gospel is the greatest of all gifts. Before taking up Relief Society work as a member of the Granite Stake Board, she was an active M. I. A. worker, an officer in the stake genealogical committee, and a temple worker. She came to the General Board from the Granite Stake Board, where she was first counselor in the Relief Society presidency.
All her life Sister Robison has been a faithful, consistent Latter-day Saint, true to every trust placed in her and willing to serve the Church in any capacity to which she was called. As general president she devoted herself whole-heartedly to the work of her high calling, giving freely and unreservedly of her energy, her strength, and her talents. She never asked any of her co-workers to do what she herself would not do, nor to put in more hours of work than did she, whether in committee meetings, attending stake conferences, or rendering other service. She was never too tired or too busy to discuss Relief Society problems with anyone who desired her counsel. It is because of her devotion to the Church and the Relief Society, her willing and efficient service and her ability as a public speaker, as well as because of her fine character, exemplary life, and charming personality that she is dearly loved by the women of the Society whom she has served so long and so well. With all her public duties, Sister Robison has reared a family of six children. She has been always a devoted wife and mother and a good neighbor.
(To be continued)
AT THE DEDICATION OF RELIEF SOCIETY MONUMENT, NAUVOO, ILLINOIS, July 1933 Left to right: Mary C. Kimball, editor of Relief Society Magazine; Julia A. F. Lund, general secretary-treasurer; President Louise Y. Robison; Counselors Amy Brown Lyman and Julia A. Child.
TREES
Elsie E. Barrett
I think of trees as set apart In God's creation plan; So strong and stately looking down Like sentinels of great renown. And though I think His highest art Is man, Yet I am glad that I can see A bit of God in ev'ry tree.
HAPPENINGS
Annie Wells Cannon
Now August flowers gold and red Adorn the shaded paths we tread, And choicest fruits for us are spread.
THE new migration, if one may term it so, is one of the saddest aspects of the present war the constant returning to the "old home town" of young wives with little children for the duration (whatever that may mean), the breaking up of pleasant family life when suddenly the young father receives appointment to some fort or training camp and departs knowing not the destiny nor when nor where the next call will be. These young wives have many adjustments to make disposing of property, packing, transportation, and finally at home again trying to pick up the broken threads. Their courage is wonderful, and in true heroic style without glamour or din they carry on, trying to make life all it should be for their little ones, entrusted now to their care alone. These young mothers are the army of patriotic women behind the firing line.
QUEEN WILHELMINA, of the Netherlands, the longest-reigning monarch of all living monarchs, is the first queen born to a throne to visit America. Other royal visitors, Queen Elizabeth of Britain, Elizabeth Crown Princess of Belgium, and Marie of Rumania were married to heirs to the crown. Wilhelmina was and is a great ruler, mothering all the Dutch interests shrewdly and carefully. With royal disregard of danger, this 61-year-old queen flew from Britain to Canada. It was her first trip across the Atlantic and her first plane ride. Censorship forbade much knowledge of her purpose, but great interest was manifest in her visit.
MARINA, beautiful Duchess of Kent, celebrated United States Independence day, July 4th, by giving birth to a son, seventh in direct line to the throne of Britain.
OVETA CULP HOBBY, of Texas, was sworn in director of the Woman's Auxiliary Corps, May 16, 1942, under military regulations. To take the oath of office, she stood between two American flags, flanked by General George C. Marshall, chief of staff, and Secretary Stimpson. The Secretary said, "The War Department considers itself fortunate to have a woman of your ability to lead the Woman's Auxiliary." She replied, "I shall give to it all the strength and devotion I possess."
LAUGHING EYES, a Creek Indian girl from Brooklyn, was the first to enlist in the Woman's Auxiliary Army Corps in New York.
ROSA MANUS, 60, former vice-president of the International Federation of Woman's Suffrage, died as a prisoner in Germany, May 29.
EDITORIAL

"Let Your Light So Shine Before Men" (Matthew 5:16.)
THE average Latter-day Saint shows no hesitancy in declaring himself to be a member of the Church. When questioned as to his religious affiliation, he promptly replies, "I am a Mormon," or "I am a Latter-day Saint." But how often does he stop to consider what such a declaration implies? How often does he stop to consider the effect this declaration has upon his hearer?
In making such a claim a person implies that he knows or should know something of the beliefs and standards of the Church, that he is willing to be known as a member of the Church and to be judged according to its standards. Most persons hearing one make such a claim naturally expect him to behave according to their understanding of what constitutes normal "Mormon behavior."
The person who is entirely uninformed regarding the Church is quick to judge the entire Church by what he sees the self-styled Mormon do, or by what he may hear him say. For example, a young soldier boy, entirely unfamiliar with the Church, was stationed near a Mormon community. By chance one day he happened into a Mormon sacrament meeting. A missionary boy greeted him cordially at the door, introduced him to the bishop and others standing near, and at the close of the meeting invited him to come again. Later, in writing to a friend of the Mormon people, the young soldier said, "The Mormons are an unusually friendly people." He judged the entire Mormon people by the conduct of that one missionary boy. On the other hand, a young woman who had declared herself to be a Mormon before a group of non-Mormons, offered a cigarette to one of the persons who had heard her make the claim. This person was familiar with the standard of the Church in regard to the use of tobacco and was greatly surprised at this behavior on the part of one claiming to be a Mormon. Later, in speaking of the Mormon people, this person said, "The Mormons lack the fortitude to practice what they preach. They're not as good as they would have us believe them to be." Thus again was the Church as a whole judged by the conduct of one person.
The individual behavior of each person who claims to be a Mormon affects the reputation of the Church as a whole, and influences the opinions of people with regard to the general desirability of the religion and its effectiveness in the lives of Church members.
At the present time thousands of people, unfamiliar with or only partially informed, some of them even misinformed, on the beliefs, ideals, and standards of the Church, are flocking into our Mormon communities, and thousands of Mormon boys, and many Mormon girls, are going into communities that are predominantly non-Mormon. This is a day when Latter-day Saints, perhaps as never before, are daily working side by side with those whose views and codes of conduct differ from that accepted by the Church. It is a day when the firmness of Latter-day Saints is being tested. It is a day in which the Mormon has great opportunity to "let his light shine."
The missionary work of the Church today has largely shifted from the missionary in the mission field to the general membership of the Church at home. All Latter-day Saints now have unusual and abundant opportunity to teach the Gospel in the most impressive and effective way?by living according to Church standards every day under all circumstances. If they will do this, then those with whom they mingle, seeing their good works, the fruits of Mormonism, will look with favor upon their religion; and some, no doubt, will be influenced to accept the Latter-day Saint way of life.
Latter-day Saints should not feel frustrated because of the outside influences that are coming among them; rather, they should accept the good, recognize their opportunities to extend the influence of the Church, and be conscious of their power to "leaven the lump."
Latter-day Saints have long been known as a "peculiar people"?peculiar in that they differ in their beliefs and in their way of life from the general run of people. The true Latter-day Saint takes pride in that which he does or does not do that makes him stand out as peculiar. He adheres strictly to the standards of the Church, obeying its teachings regardless of pressure or circumstance. In so doing, he holds the respect of those who believe and do as he does, as well as those who do not. He reflects credit upon his Church and is an influence for good, and enjoys the personal satisfaction that comes only from right living.
?B. S. S.
Ethel B. Andrew Resigns
IT is with sincere regret that the Relief Society General Board announces the resignation from the Board of Ethel Bean Andrew. The resignation, tendered June 1942, was made necessary because of the change in residence of the Andrew family from Ogden, Utah, to Nampa, Idaho.
Sister Andrew has been a member of the General Board since January 1940, when the General Board was reorganized following the appointment of Amy Brown Lyman as general president. Sister Andrew brought to her position the wisdom of years of experience in Relief Society work, and as a member of the General Board she has been a willing and devoted worker, sensing her responsibilities and, at the same time, valuing her calling. She has been generous with her time and abilities, serving efficiently on committees, and attending many stake Relief Society conferences. While she will be missed in the councils of the General Board, she will no doubt find many opportunities for continued service in the community into which she has now moved. Her fellow Board members extend to her their love and appreciation for her many contributions to Relief Society, and wish her happiness in her new home.
NOTES TO THE FIELD
Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest
THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the inauguration of an annual short story contest designed to stimulate fiction-writing among Latter-day Saint women, to develop greater appreciation for this type of creative writing, and to encourage high standards of work.
The contest for 1942 opens with this announcement, and closes November 15. Three prizes will be awarded, as follows: first prize, $25; second prize, $20; third prize $15. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of the Relief Society Magazine for 1943. Prize-winning stories will become the property of the General Board, and may not be published by others except by written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the regular Magazine rates at the time of publication.
RULES OF THE CONTEST
1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by a publication of recognized merit. Members of the General Board of Relief Society and persons connected with the Relief Society office staff are not eligible to enter this contest.
2. Only one story may be submitted by a contestant.
3. All stories must be submitted before November 15, 1942.
4. The story shall not exceed 3000 words, and shall be typewritten.
5. The author's name shall not appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address, shall be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes should not be used.
6. A statement is to accompany each story submitted certifying: (1) that the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.); (2) that the story submitted is the contestant's original work; (3) that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.
7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.
8. There shall be five judges, consisting of two members of the General Board, two persons connected with the English Department of a reputable educational institution, and a writer of recognized merit.
9. All entries are to be addressed to: Relief Society Short Story Contest, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest
THE Eliza Roxey Snow Relief Society Memorial Prize Poem Contest is conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board. Three prizes are awarded?a first prize of $15, a second prize of $10, and a third prize of $5. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates.
Rules governing the contest are published herewith. This year the contest will open again upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Magazine, and will close October 15. No definite subject has been recommended for the poems submitted. This has been the procedure since 1923, the first year of the contest, with the exception of 1941, our hundredth year, when a definite subject, that of the Relief Society centennial, was the theme of all poems submitted in the contest.
The object of the contest is to encourage women to do creative writing in the form of poetry and to appreciate more keenly the beauty and value of poetic verse. May this be an outstanding year for number of participants and excellence in poetic expression.
RULES OF THE CONTEST
1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women.
2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.
3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written.
4. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks, and without attached explanatory material, pictures, et cetera.
5. Only one side of the paper should be used.
6. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used.
7. Statement should accompany the poem submitted certifying that it is the contestant's original work, that is has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided.
8. Members of the General Board and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest.
9. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.
10. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers.
11. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15.
12. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Relief Society Women Urged to Support Salvage-for-Victory Program
A GENERAL salvage committee has been organized in each state headed by a chairman appointed by the governor, and these state committees have organized thousands of county and local salvage committees throughout the United States, all of whom give voluntary service. The Relief Society desires its members throughout the United States to cooperate fully with their respective salvage committees by serving on local salvage committees when requested to do so, by announcing in Relief Society meetings the collections which are conducted from time to time by their local salvage committees, and by individually supporting the various salvage collections as they are conducted.
As a special phase of the salvage program, the collection of household fats was begun in July. The women's division of the general salvage section of the War Production Board at Washington, D. C., has released information on this subject from which the following excerpts are quoted:
The Bureau of Industrial Conservation has set up the Fats Salvage Program giving each family a goal of between one and two pounds of waste cooking fats per month which would yield well over half a billion pounds per year. It is estimated that two billions of pounds of kitchen fats are now wasted each year.
The reasons behind this effort are as follows: War in the Pacific has reduced imports of fats and oils from the Far East, and substitution must be effected to replace this loss in normal supply. Moreover, the war effort requires glycerine for explosives and other war needs, both for our own forces and those of our allies. And fats make glycerine. Therefore, for both of these reasons, it is necessary to salvage every possible pound of waste kitchen fats. Two pounds of waste kitchen fats contain enough glycerine to fire five anti-tank gun shells.
The fat salvage program primarily involves the women of this country... But it will be necessary for all groups of women and each individual woman to realize that cooperation is essential and vital to the war effort.
In cooperation with the War Production Board, Glycerine and Associated Industries have contributed leaflets entitled, "Save Your Waste Fats To Make Explosives!" These leaflets are for distribution to every household through local salvage committees. Where requested to do so by their local salvage committees, Relief Society visiting teachers may distribute these leaflets to L. D. S. homes at the time of their regular visits. Relief Society members, as individuals, may of course cooperate in any way desired.
Quoted from this leaflet are the following directions to housewives for salvaging waste fats:
Four Things To Do
1. Save All Your Waste Cooking Fats. Save pan drippings from roast ham, beef, lamb and poultry. Save broiler drippings from steaks, chops, veal and bacon. Save deep fats, whether lard or vegetable shortening, from fried potatoes, fish, doughnuts, etc.
2. Pour Into Clean, Wide-Mouthed Can. It is best to pour into a wide-mouthed can, such as a vegetable shortening can. Be sure the can is spotlessly clean. And strain your fats as you pour them in, so that all foreign matter is removed.
3. Keep In Refrigerator or a cool, dark place until you have collected at least one pound.
4. Take To Your Meat Dealer, who is cooperating patriotically in this drive. He will weigh your can of fat, pay you the established price for it, and start it on its way to the war industries. Frozen food locker plants will also accept your salvaged fats.
Four Things Not To Do
1. Don't take less than one pound at a time to your meat dealer.
2. Don't take your fats to the meat dealer in glass containers or paper bags.
3. Don't let fats stand so long that they become rancid. If they do, the glycerine content is reduced.
4. Don't take your fats to the meat dealer on week-ends if you can avoid it. Help him by returning them early in the week.
Information for Relief Society Magazine Representatives
SOME stakes have already conducted their annual one-month promotion campaign in the interest of the Relief Society Magazine; in others, the campaign is now in progress, and, in still others, is scheduled to occur during the fall months. The purpose of this one-month intensive promotion campaign is to bring to the attention of the general ward membership the values of the Relief Society Magazine, and to make special effort to introduce the Magazine into the homes of those who are not now subscribers. Nevertheless, the soliciting of new subscriptions should not be relaxed after the intensive one-month promotion campaign, but should be continued throughout the year. The work of procuring renewal subscriptions should be distributed throughout the year as subscriptions expire.
Stake and ward Relief Society executive officers are requested to support their respective Magazine representatives throughout the year and to assign whatever additional temporary assistance may be needed during the period of the campaign.
For suggestions on ways to promote Magazine subscriptions, see Relief Society Magazine, May 1941, page 306; also see Notes From the Field Department of this August issue of the Magazine, page 563 for methods used by several stakes and for comments of appreciation from Magazine readers.
The printed "Bulletin of Information For Relief Society Magazine Representatives," first issued in August 1940, is in process of revision. A copy of this revised bulletin of instructions will be sent soon to all Relief Society presidents and Magazine representatives.
As a matter of general interest to our readers and as an aid to Magazine representatives in familiarizing themselves and potential subscribers with the content of the Magazine, the accompanying chart is presented. This chart shows that in 1941, a typical year, each Relief Society Magazine subscriber received a total of 874 pages of reading matter for one dollar, not counting advertising and covers. The chart and supporting table show the proportion of space devoted to various types of material, emphasizing the variety of subjects treated and the fact that the Magazine serves its three-fold purpose as a medium (1) for circulating lessons and instructions relating to Relief Society work, (2) for providing general and timely reading material suited to the mature women of the Church, and (3) for fostering the writing talents of Church members, women particularly, in the fields of poetry, fiction and other prose.
More than half the space of the 1941 volume, 518 pages or 59 per cent, was devoted to general reading?special articles on a variety of subjects, editorials, fiction (short stories and a serial novelette), poetry, and pictures. The remaining 356 pages or 41 per cent related more specifically to the work of Relief Society?lessons in theology, literature, social science, homemaking, and visiting teachers' messages, proceedings of the two semiannual general conferences of Relief Society (including instructions by the president and summaries of specific helps given in department sessions, and of addresses at general sessions), Notes to the Field where general instructions and information to officers appeared monthly, and Notes From the Field where accomplishments of stake, ward, and mission Relief Societies were reported, serving as recognition of the Societies represented, and as an exchange of information and suggestions on Relief Society work.
IN 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SUBSCRIBERS RECEIVED 874 PAGES FOR ONE DOLLAR (EXCLUSIVE OF COVER AND ADVERTISING)
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?1941
SPECIAL ARTICLES 270 Pages EDITORIALS 27 Pages NOTES FROM FIELD 26 Pages NOTES TO FIELD 20 Pages RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS 156 Pages
874 PAGES FOR ONE DOLLAR
ILLUSTRATIONS 45 Pages FICTION 136 Pages POETRY 40 Pages
Type of Content Pages Pct. General Interest 518 59 Special Articles 270 31 Editorials 27 3 Fiction 136 15 Illustrations 45 5 Poetry 40 5 Organization Matters 356 41 Conference Proceedings 156 18 Notes to Field 20 2 Notes from Field 26 3 Lessons 154 18 Total Content 874 100
(Continued on page 562)
Whither Thou Goest
LaRene King Bleecker
SEVEN-YEAR-OLD Dolma, in a calico dress, sat on the spring seat of a heavy freight wagon, her knees drawn up under her. "How far away is it where Father is?" she asked dreamily, staring straight ahead at the blue stretch of horizon.
"Around five hundred miles, or more," Hope said, squinting up at the slanting sun. Just a few days away, but weeks and weeks distant at the rate the oxen traveled.
"How did we ever get so far behind," Hope wondered, looking at her children?Dolma, with her thin, eager face and light brown pigtails, and Junior, whose dark hair and eyes matched Ron's. The other teams could not possibly be more than a mile ahead, or two perhaps, if they made good time. But her own oxen were tired, and her food was getting low, and Juney was only two years old.
In the seat beside Dolma, Juney dug at his sleepy eyes with rigid little fists. "Sleepy boy," Hope said, absently, and when she spoke to the oxen, her voice was automatic. Her thoughts were with Ron who rode ahead of the company as scout and look-out man, so commissioned by Brigham Young. It had been days since she had seen him.
She thought about the house they had built back in Nauvoo. They had loved it so, and had lived there just long enough to become attached to it. And in the next lot were the Rigbys?Margaret and Sam. They, too, had a new home, built in expectation of their first child.
The day Ron and Sam had come from town (their faces and clothing black with the smoke and grime of an all-night vigil fighting fires set by the mob) she and Margaret had been planning next year's flower gardens. A seed catalogue fell to the floor as the men came through the door. "Pack and be in readiness to cross the river. Orders have come to evacuate Nauvoo," Ron said, hurriedly. "But our house, Ron?the first real home Dol and Juney have ever had."
Hope bent over for the catalogue, but Margaret had retrieved it and was beside Sam showing him the attractive pages. "Look, zinnias and larkspur and hollyhocks. And see these pansies, Sam. We'll plant a bed of them near our baby's window."
That had been weeks ago, and they had lost track of the Rigbys; and back across the river in Nauvoo, their homes, and many others, were a mass of ruins.
"Oh, well," Hope thought, "we lived there four or five months. And now it will be some place else. I've lived all my life following someone else around?first, my father who was a minister, always changing parishes; then, Aunt Amy who moved when she got the urge, and she was always having urges. The only time she ever stayed in one place was after she embraced the Gospel. She had been baptized in New York State, and had been loyal to the Saints until she died.
"With her legacy I could have settled down in a real home with a life of my own, and I could have gone on with my music," Hope thought. "But then I had to meet and fall in love with Ronald, and marry him, and move from county to county and from state to state, wherever the Mormons were gathered."
And now they were moving on and on farther west. And Ron was one of the leaders, going on ahead to clear the way for the wagon trains. She loved him so that nothing else mattered.
She thought of their parting at Sugar Creek. Their words were casual. "Take care of yourselves," Ron said, his eyes on Hope, standing with Dolma and Juney, waiting to see him off. She turned quickly to go into the tent. "See you at Council Bluffs," she said. But Dolma pulled her back. "I want to see Father ride over the hill," Dolma said. "I don't," Hope thought. "I don't want to see him go." But she stood between the two children, holding their hands, watching Ron ride swiftly toward the horizon. He waved once, and then he was gone.
"Us women are alone, now," Dolma said, walking briskly back with Hope to the wagon.
WHEN days had passed without Ron's coming to visit them at various camps along the way, Dolma prayed every night for her father's return. "Send Father back to us," she prayed with the solemn faith of a seven-year-old. "Please send Father back to us. Please send him back." Then she laughed happily. "I think He heard me, Mother, 'cause I heard a voice say, 'All right, Dolma.'"
"Don't count too much on it, darling," Hope said. "There may be more important things the Lord wants your father to do."
Then she received a letter. Ron had sent it with a returning rider: "I can't come back for you," he wrote her, "and I haven't located Sam so that you could travel along with him. Do you think you can get here alone?"
"Oh simple," Hope said, using one of Margaret's favorite expressions. "All the oxen have to do is to move a foot at a time, and its easy to move a foot at a time with them." Now, jabbing the whip stock into the iron socket, she pushed the slatted sunbonnet back and rested her head against the back of the seat. "Oh simple," she thought, wryly. Days and days of making the children comfortable, of driving the plodding oxen! Nights and nights of making camp, then up again early, and on, being cheerful because of the children, pretending everything is all right, pretending to Dolma that someday we'll have a home of our own!"
For a moment she let resentment fill her. "Why should I go on? Why should I always have to leave my home, any home, to follow Ron to the ends of the earth?" Ron loved going. In spite of all that he said, he loved going. "That's it," she thought. He was absorbed in his work for the Church, and proud because of the trust the brethren placed in him. "What do I have? Why should he, because he is a man and loves change and adventure, keep moving; and why should I, just because I am a woman, be expected to follow and wait? He has work that he loves. And I drag along, rationing the food, day after day, to keep the children from starving."
We'll drive thousands of miles and live in a one-room hut made of crude logs, and I'll tell Dol stories about the house we're going to build. For years I've been telling her that. "Yes, darling. We'll have a house with lots of windows in it to let in the sunlight, and carpets on the floors, and a trundle bed for you and one for Juney." Someday,... Oh yes, someday. But when?
She leaned her shoulder against the wagon bow and stared out at the rolling hills. One more hill. What's on the other side? Oh, just another hill. On and on and on?forever. And all day and every evening, the trek of wagons and cattle; men, women, and children, all pushing forward to an unknown goal. Often she recognized friends and neighbors; more often the faces were unfamiliar. But all were stamped with the same inflexible determination.
Thinking of this, Hope sighed. And Dolma's eyes turned at once from the dusty wagon trail. The pigtails swung. "Tell about the future, Mother," she said.
"Oh, not again. Look out and see if the cow is still tied securely. We've got to have milk for Juney."
"Mother tell us just as you did before, only put more in about us women."
Hope's young face, gray with dust and fatigue, cracked into a smile. "Look, darling. In ten years from now you'll be a young lady, as old as I was when I was baptized."
"Only I'll be baptized when I'm eight," reminded Dolma.
"Yes. When you're eight.... And us women, Dol, will still be just like we are now. Only then we'll have an active Relief Society, the kind the Prophet Joseph organized the day Aunt Anne was there. And Dol, I hope you'll always have a generous heart and love everyone."
"Will we have a home, Mother, with Father there, and all?"
"Yes, a real home. And Father will be there."
Dolma laughed, delightedly. Juney kicked his legs and said, "Yah, Yah!"
"Oh please, dear God, please give me the strength to hold on and make this come true," Hope thought, and suddenly she recalled what Margaret Rigby had said so often: "Of course you can do it. You can do anything if you have to."
BUT one night when Hope's patience had worn as thin as a thread, when it seemed to her she would never be able to get the sounds out of her ears?the jolting wagon, the wind's roar, the grind of the wheels through sand?she came to the bend of the river and saw a wagon which she recognized as belonging to the Rigbys. She knew it by the green chicken crate tied to the back, also by a wooden barrel and a churn with wide brass hoops. Perhaps they had made camp nearby. If so, that meant that Margaret's hour had come.
Hope was not long in finding a camp site close to the others, and as soon as she had the children safely in bed and had asked neighbors to look out for them, she started a search for the Rigbys. As she went through the camps she was recalling Margaret's words the last time they had been together: "I want my baby to be born in a house," Margaret had said. "I want it to be sheltered and safe. Oh Hope, do you suppose we'll ever settle down and have homes of our own?"
Hope had given Margaret one of her wry smiles. "Well, I love Ron so much, I suppose I'll follow him to the ends of the earth," she said, "and end up by living in an igloo."
"Oh Hope, you must have a home for Dolma and Junior," Margaret insisted. "Children are entitled to be born and reared in a home."
Hope thought of this now as, having at last found the Rigbys, she saw the shelter in which Margaret lay, fighting the writhing torment of birth pangs. Sam Rigby had slung together a makeshift hut. The sides were formed of blankets fastened to poles stuck in the ground. There was a roof of bark which kept out the sun, but not the rain. Margaret lay on a pallet on the dirt floor, surrounded by an odd assortment of boxes and camp litter. A tallow dip shed the only light.
Without spoken words both women knew the crisis had come now for Margaret. Sensing the question in her pathetic, brown eyes, Hope knelt and took the sick woman's hands in her own. "If what you fear happens, I'll take the baby and care for it as if it were my own," she promised.
Hours later the rain began. Margaret's ordeal was over, though Hope was never quite clear as to all that had happened, so many emotions had run rampant through her being. But the rain had come, and it had seeped through the frail, bark roof and onto the pallet. Kind sisters stood holding pans and pails to catch the water. Hope wondered why, for where Margaret's soul had gone there was no need of help. The sheeted form on the pallet was past all that.
Hope sat stiffly on a wooden box holding Margaret's new-born child in her arms. In her thoughts she could still hear the dying woman's last words and see the patient smile on her face as she said: "I'm so thankful my baby was born in a house."
Bitterness and resentment filled Hope's mind. This then, was what happened to women who followed their men faithfully to the end. She looked at Sam Rigby, his shoulders hunched forward, hands clenched, his eyes burning. She wondered what thoughts were seething through his mind. Quiet, unassuming men often had great depth of feeling. Was Sam bitter now that this tragedy had come to him? Hope tried to imagine what Ron would do if this sort of thing should happen to her. A chill feeling of foreboding gripped her body.
She held the infant close to her breast and felt its heart fluttering, and knew it was dying. When the tiny form grew rigid, she still sat without power of will or motion. Her own fears kept her silent. For with the passing of Margaret's baby, a movement close to her heart, confirmed what she had believed for some time. She was soon to have another child....
Stumbling back through the dawn, she was unaware of the tang of rain-soaked earth or the flush of rose in the sky. As she reached her wagon, relieved that Dolma and Juney were sleeping soundly, she heard uncertain, shuffling footsteps, and turned to see Sam Rigby following.
"I'm goin' back," he told her, "back to Missouri. Our folks are there, her's and mine."
"Would... Would Margaret want you to?" Hope asked, too weary to feel surprise or to offer sympathy.
"If the baby had lived, things mighta worked out. But now I've got nothin' to live for. I'm not aimin' to follow the Saints any longer. Maybe it's true, the Gospel, I dunno. I don't care any more. Tomorrow, as soon as the buryin's over, I'm leavin'. I thought you ought to know. Good-by, an' I'm obliged to you, Hope."
He shuffled away, and the darkness seemed to blot him out completely. Her tears came then, and forebodings and doubts. She crept into bed beside the sleeping children and lay there taut as a wire that has been stretched to the breaking point. Why was she always alone? Where was Ron? It seemed to her that he liked staying away. What would he say when she told him she was to have another child? She couldn't go through with it. Bitterly she questioned her right to bring offspring into the world to suffer, to die, as the Rigby baby had died.
Then a thought came to her. She sat up in the wagon bed as though propelled on a string. Sam's words echoed in her ears. "I'm not aimin' to follow any longer!" The despair of his loss had overwhelmed him. He was adrift with a sorrow too deep to be borne without help. And she had let him go without holding out the hope, the faith, and assurance of eternal life. She had failed to carry out the Prophet's words: "And you shall be counselors and aids to the Priesthood. Queens of the home! Guides to youth. I now turn the key...!"
Slowly dawn crept over the sleeping world and with it the dawn of an awakening in Hope's heart. This glorious promise was bigger than they were. It would fill the whole world with its message!
A few days later a scout stopped by the encampment and brought her a letter. It was from Ronald. He had felt her need of him. Was everything all right? He had built her a cabin, not much of a home to be sure, but dry and warm, and he would be riding toward the camp in a few days to meet her and bring her back. And how were Dolma and Juney? Were they all right?
Oh, they were! They were! Everything was all right now that Ron had said he had a place for her and was coming soon to meet her. Hope knew now that she would follow Ron forever and ever. She would follow him to the ends of the earth, and back....
"HOW far is it to where Father is, Mother?"
"Hush, Dolma! I don't know. I'm tired, Dol. I can't be your mother all the time you know. Some of the time I like to be me."
That was a fine way to speak to one's child. But she and Dol were friends, and Dol understood her.
"What will Father say about the cow? I mean about us losing her?" Dolma asked, presently.
"He'll say that we didn't tie her securely. Cows like to run away sometimes just as children do."
"Mother, tell us about our house, the one we're going to have, just like you did before, only different. Start with Papa."
"Well," Hope began, "in about a week from now, you'll be asking questions just as you are doing now. And Juney will be scraping his mush bowl and saying, 'More, more,' just as he was doing at breakfast this morning. And then I'll look up, and way in the distance yonder...." She pointed in line with the rutted road, "I'll see...."
"Yes, yes, Mother, go on!"
"I'll see a handsome stranger riding toward us on a black horse."
Dolma giggled delightedly and held her hand to her mouth. Junior kicked his feet.
"And when he sees us, he will say, 'Hello, hello! I'm looking for a wife and two beautiful children!' And Dolma will say, 'That's us, Father, that's us!' And we'll all follow along; and then, before we know it, Father will say, 'Hah! Here is the house!' Then he'll grab Juney and toss him up, up, clear to the ceiling."
"What ceiling, Mother?"
"The ceiling of our beautiful house."
"Will it have ?? in it? And a trundle bed for me, and one for Juney?"
"Not at first I'm afraid, but later. Yes, I'm sure we'll have those. And we'll have a stove, and real chairs and a table."
"Go on, Mother."
"And the blue china dishes that Aunt Anne left...."
"Will our house have love in it, Mother?"
"Yes... Love most of all, darling. And we'll plant flowers?zinnias and larkspur and hollyhocks."
Dolma laughed delightedly, her fingers clutching her mother's calloused, brown hand. Juney, flat on his back, waved his chubby legs and grinned happily. The oxen plodded on over the jolting ruts, on and on and on.
INFORMATION FOR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES (Continued from page 556)
Magazine content for the current year, 1942, is similar to that for 1941 with two main exceptions: first, special emphasis is being given during this centennial year to cover pictures, and articles related to Relief Society's inspiring and dramatic history; and, second, the postponement of the general Relief Society conferences because of the war has released space ordinarily used for conference proceedings for a variety of other material.
These values in the Magazine's content, and the interest, support and efforts of officers, Magazine representatives, and Relief Society members, are principal reasons for the past year's increase of 5000 subscriptions to a present monthly circulation of more than 56,000 copies. If this subscription list is maintained and increased, the present low subscription price of $1 per year can be assured, despite increased costs of production.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE CAMPAIGNS
Granite Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah)
EARL H. CROCKETT, Granite Stake Magazine representative, submitted the following report:
"The Lion House Social Center was the scene of a picturesque luncheon given for the ward Magazine representatives, ward presidents and ward membership coordinators by the Granite Stake Relief Society, on September 16, 1941. Because Magazine and membership are so closely related to each other and the success of each affects the other, we felt the need for bringing the Magazine representatives and coordinators together. A bowl of varicolored flowers centered the table, and at each plate there was a scroll of paper, held in place by a flower and ribbon.
"The purpose of the fourth 'annual get-together luncheon' was to inject each one present with a dose of 'pep,' making them immune to discouragement, disappointment, and doubt, preparatory to the opening of our Magazine drive which was to take place during the month of October.
"Our special guest for the day was General President Amy Brown Lyman, who willingly gave us of her fund of knowledge and experience pertaining to the Magazine. We were privileged to give our ward workers the benefit of her inspiration.
"During the course of the afternoon, the twenty scrolls marking the places were untied, and each guest found typewritten thereon a pertinent fact, gathered by Counselor Vauna S. Jacobsen, pertaining to the Magazine, several of which are here quoted:
1. The Relief Society Magazine is printed with clear, legible type on paper that must be ordered one year in advance. This is of special benefit to older women.
2. There is a minimum of advertising in the Magazine, and none running through the contents. All advertising is either at the front or the back. In each issue there are 74 pages of good reading material.
3. The Relief Society Magazine is an excellent outlet for the literary talent of our Latter-day Saint women. It attracts many of our best creative writers in the fields of prose, poetry, and fiction.
4. Timely articles on current problems are a special feature of the Magazine.
5. The Relief Society Magazine is distributed throughout the United States, including the territories of Alaska and Hawaii, and in Canada, Australia, Africa, South America, Mexico, Canal Zone, most European countries (prior to the war), India, China, the islands of the sea, and Syria.
6. The Magazine is preserved in the Library of Congress, and many other leading libraries of the nation.
7. The Relief Society Magazine was preceded throughout the year 1914 by the Relief Society Bulletin, a modest monthly periodical of 16 pages, the major portion of which was devoted to lesson material.
8. In January 1915, the Bulletin was enlarged to contain articles, stories, and poems of general interest and was issued under the new title, The Relief Society Magazine.
9. The Magazine is of convenient size, easy to carry and to hold.
10. The circulation of The Relief Society Magazine is over 55,000 and it is increasing each month.
11. The publishing of the Magazine is a non-profit enterprise. The selling price of $1.00 is used to benefit the subscriber, and has been maintained since establishment of the Magazine despite greatly increased paper and labor charges."
"All of the facts read that day were afterwards furnished in compiled form to each of the wards, and helped to equip them to go forward in their respective wards to accomplish their goal of obtaining subscriptions to equal the enrollment."
Much credit for the consistent success of the Magazine campaign year after year in this stake is due the stake and ward officers, headed by Agnes M. Bolto, stake president, who fully support and cooperate with their faithful and energetic Magazine representatives.
South Los Angeles Stake (Huntington Park, California)
ROSINE BAUER, Magazine representative of the South Los Angeles Stake, reports that the annual Magazine promotion campaign was held in this stake during the month of June. Preparations for this campaign were made at a preliminary meeting and luncheon in May, attended by ward Relief Society presidents and Magazine representatives and by Hazel T. NeVille, stake Relief Society president and other stake officers. All wards represented accepted the proposed plan to visit every home in the stake which was without the Relief Society Magazine. Care was taken to select for visiting these homes those women who could tactfully and effectively present the values of the Magazine.
Sister Bauer reports: "We have not used any force whatsoever in getting the Magazine into the homes. I have instructed all Magazine representatives that if the Magazine means a lot to them and they enjoy reading it they can encourage others to read it. During the month of June, I asked the wards to give two and one-half minute talks in Sunday School on some article from The Relief Society Magazine. The purpose was to bring before the people of the ward the wonderful material the Magazine contains, but no selling or sales talk was allowed. Permission to make these talks was granted by the stake Sunday School superintendency and the ward Sunday School superintendencies and the bishops."
At the preparation meeting above referred to, the stake Magazine representative issued to each ward two typewritten statements, one entitled "Our Goal for Relief Society Magazine in the Centennial Year 1942" and "Instructions and Counsel to all Relief Society Presidents and Magazine Representatives." Following are typical excerpts from the statement relating to the assigned goal:
1. Why 1,000 subscriptions for South Los Angeles Stake??because half of our people do not realize what they miss, not having this Magazine in their homes.
2. The Relief Society Magazine always has very valuable reading in its pages. This centennial year the Magazine is full of Relief Society history and messages from our Church leaders, and contains serially the life story of our General Relief Society President, Amy Brown Lyman.
3. Meetings and Church activities are curtailed; therefore we should read more, fill our minds constantly with words of wisdom, gain knowledge of what is going on throughout the Church, and keep in close contact with our Relief Society General Board through The Relief Society Magazine.
4. The contents of The Relief Society Magazine deal with educational, spiritual, and temporal values.
5. Relief Society president of every ward should consult her bishop and ask for his cooperation in the Magazine campaign.
6. Make special effort to get the Magazine into the homes of new members, for members of the Relief Society are interested in the progress and activity of this noble and important work.
7. The Magazine representative is to check on renewals each month carefully and regularly, using information provided by her own record and by the pink expiration slips sent by The Relief Society Magazine office.
8. Magazine representatives are requested to check ahead one month and hand out envelopes one month in advance of expiration, explaining to these members that they will call in a month's time for the renewal subscription.
9. Each ward Magazine representative is requested to report monthly to her ward Relief Society president and to the stake Magazine representative the results of follow-up work on expirations.
10. Read the article in the Magazine for March 1942, by Leah D. Widtsoe, "What Relief Society Means to Me," in which she states, "The Relief Society Magazine is always a good companion for me and when I read it faithfully I am always built up and feel that I can carry on, no matter what life may bring."
MAGAZINE GIFT SUBSCRIPTIONS
MANY gift subscriptions are placed each year by individuals who order the Relief Society Magazine for their friends or relatives. Each recipient of a gift subscription receives from the office of the General Board a special gift card announcing the gift. In addition to gift subscriptions by individuals, many Relief Societies provide for gift subscriptions either from their general fund or from funds especially collected for this purpose. Following are a few examples of this service:
Societies of Southern California have submitted several gift subscriptions for Relief Society women in the British Mission. The Powell Branch of the Big Horn Stake has sent a total of six gift subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine during the past few months, leaving the distribution of these subscriptions to the discretion of the General Board. These gift subscriptions were divided among a new branch Relief Society on the island of Lanai, Hawaii, Navajo Indian members, and investigators near Shiprock, New Mexico, and missionaries. One of these gift subscriptions from the Powell Branch was the award subscription earned by Irene E. Spafford, the Magazine representative, for obtaining during 1941 subscriptions equal to or exceeding 75 percent of the Relief Society membership, and was made available specifically for a missionary.
The gift subscriptions for the use of the new branch Relief Society on the island of Lanai were sent after receiving a letter from Elder Avard W. Booth reporting the organization of this new branch and remitting a subscription for the new Relief Society president. He wrote:
"During the third week of January of this year here on the small island of Lanai we organized what to our knowledge was the first Relief Society on the island. We had an initial attendance of about 25. Since that time we have held our meetings as per schedule and have found, as is inevitably true, that the Relief Society offers to its members unparalleled opportunities not only in religious instruction, literature, handiwork, and home improvement, but also in leadership."
Later he acknowledged the receipt of the gift subscriptions and stated, "Our heartfelt thanks go to the Powell Branch Relief Society of the Big Horn Stake which has made the donations possible. You may rest assured that the Magazines will be put to the very best of service and will be a great aid in our work here on Lanai."
In the new but small Relief Society at Shiprock, the president, Emma Evans, reported in May that "all activities were carried on by an average of three women. A beautiful yellow quilt was made, an equally beautiful temple suit handed in, and all meetings held.... I am sure that this fall we will have fun planting our evergreen tree (for the centennial) which is somewhere on the Lukachukai or 'beautiful mountain.'"
In acknowledging the gift subscriptions, Sister Evans expressed deep gratitude "because we have some worthy Navajo new members and investigators who would love and read and digest the Magazine." One of these subscriptions was sent to Mrs. George Jumbo who, with a lady missionary, walked 16 miles over mountain trails (from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m.) to attend a Navajo conference held in June on top of the mountains at Crystal, New Mexico, where 14 Navajo converts were baptized. One of these converts was also the recipient of a gift subscription. Mrs. Jumbo and the missionary walked to this conference because the truck in which they were riding broke down. Mrs. Evans says, "They limped in, just in time to bear forceful testimonies at the last meeting. Mrs. Jumbo had walked on and on, her only desire being to tell her people the Gospel was true?and she did."
Several local Relief Societies have reported the gift of a Magazine subscription to their public library. It is suggested that this service might be extended, wherever libraries do not have funds for purchase of a subscription for the Relief Society Magazine, and wherever the availability of the Relief Society Magazine in the public library would be an advantage.
Many stake and ward Relief Societies are making a special effort to preserve back issues of the Relief Society Magazine in their stake or ward libraries, having the volumes bound wherever possible. Several of these take advantage of the binding materials which are available at the offices of the General Board, doing their own binding. In order to make the bound volumes of the Magazine and other books in the stake Relief Society library more available to the public, the Timpanogos stake Relief Society had its bookcase moved into the public library. This stake had collected and placed in its library all bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine from the beginning.
One ward in the Duchesne Stake has even accepted produce in payment for Relief Society Magazine subscriptions. The Holladay Ward of the Big Cottonwood Stake has provided all missionaries from the ward with a subscription to the Magazine from a penny fund to which the members contribute for this purpose. The Taylorsville Ward of the Cottonwood Stake keeps a Relief Society Magazine penny box available at the meetings in which members leave contributions for subscriptions for members unable to subscribe. The Bennion Ward of this stake also subscribes for the Magazine for missionaries. The Grant Stake has conducted Magazine silver parties at which contributions were dropped into a bank constructed as a replica of the Magazine. These contributions were used to purchase subscriptions for members who otherwise would not have access to the Magazine.
COMMENTS FROM MAGAZINE READERS
FOLLOWING are excerpts from a few of the letters received by the General Board of Relief Society expressing appreciation for the Relief Society Magazine:
Will you please renew my subscription for the Magazine for another year. The Magazine is wonderful. I wouldn't do without it, if I can possibly get the money. I got it this time. What will happen another year is unsure, as my son, my only child left, is now in the army, and I am a widow, and with him so far away I can't run to him for money. Anyhow, maybe he will provide for me from there. I am so glad I can have the Magazine to read at least for another year. ?Georgetown, Idaho
I know of no magazine that I look forward to as our Relief Society Magazine. If every member enjoyed it as I do, it would be in every home. I cannot afford to lose one, as each number contains such wonderful things to help us to live better lives and to become better wives, mothers, and neighbors. It is a book of inspiration, and helps one to carry on this great work. ?Manti, Utah
We do enjoy the Relief Society Magazine, and the material in it is certainly fine. I am especially happy at the choice of lessons for the coming year. We have all enjoyed the theology lessons on the Articles of Faith and now that we are going to take the Literature of the Bible, I cannot tell you how grateful I am for this choice. ?Denver, Colorado
I am a member of the Relief Society and thoroughly enjoy the work as class leader. I always read our Magazine from cover to cover and find the autobiography of Sister Amy Brown Lyman very inspirational. ?Shoshone, Idaho
My mother was president of the Draper Ward Relief Society for seven years and my wife has been an active worker and teacher here in St. Johns stake since our marriage five years ago. You see, having the Magazine in our home for years, I have learned to appreciate its value. The Relief Society Magazine is "tops." ?St. Johns and Eagar, Arizona
Your Magazine is wonderful, a great blessing and comfort. May we have more stories such as Amy Brown Lyman's, "In Retrospect." Church history and the lives of our faithful Saints inspire us to carry on. Your lessons are wonderful. It is difficult for me to get in to meetings. ?Tempe, Arizona
I've made two or three a present of our dear Magazine each year since I've been in this great cause, and the dollars I've spent for this great book have been well spent, and I feel like it has helped the ones I've given it to. Our ward is small but very scattered, and I cover a large area before I get around to them all. ?Richfield, Utah
May I take this occasion to express my appreciation of the Magazine? I live at too great a distance from the chapel to attend meetings in these times of scarce tires, and the Relief Society Magazine surely helps to make up for the lack. There are no other Saints in this section, and though many of the people are good and kind, I miss the spiritual companionship I enjoyed so much in Baltimore. Recently I was invited to a ladies' aid meeting of another church. I attended and came away feeling "let-down" and almost bitter. There was no spiritual message whatever, not even a song! How very fortunate we are to have the enlightened leadership we have in our own Church. Our leaders realize that women, too, hunger for other than material food. ?White Hall, Maryland
The Relief Society Magazine is wonderful?just full of good things to read, and I look forward to receiving it. ?Fennville, Michigan
"We appreciate your Magazine more than we can express, a magazine which we have found indispensable." ?Carnegie Free Library, Ogden, Utah
I have been a Relief Society member and a subscriber to your Magazine since our ward organized a Relief Society in June 1936. I've read every copy of the Magazine since then "from cover to cover." My mother and both my grandmothers were and are Relief Society members. I have been a class leader of the social science department and am now a visiting teacher and coordinator. The only way I see you can improve the Magazine is to make more of it. ?Nephi, Utah
I received my third Magazine just a few days ago, and how I have enjoyed them. For years I have read the national ladies' magazines and each time after reading them or glancing through them they were ready to be discarded. May I tell you how sincere and real and honest my Relief Society Magazines are to me. I shall treasure them all. ?Idaho Falls, Idaho
In talking to the sisters at the organization of our branch Relief Society, my husband, who is branch president, said: "Sisters, the Relief Society Magazine is one of the best magazines printed, and each month when it comes I try to beat my wife to it. I start at the front page and read on through." ?Wichita Falls, Texas
I want to tell you how very much we all like your editorial on the White House Conference on Children in a Democracy. It is so difficult to summarize a report of this nature covering so many topics and containing so many recommendations. It means a great deal to the members of the Conference to have the interest and support of such groups and publications as yours. ?U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C.
Enclosed find $1.00 to pay for renewal for one year. I think the Magazine is more important than our breakfast, even when we are hungry. ?Van Nuys, California
I was thrilled to have in print (December 1940) that marvelous sermon by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. President Clark speaks that which is true with a thrilling force. I listened to this sermon at Relief Society conference, and wished with all my might to remember every word, so was very happy to have it as a gift in print. The passage under the sub-heading "The Perfect Earth-home" is especially beautiful. It reads like the word of God, poetically inspired, every word chosen, every word true. ?Salt Lake City, Utah
Each year I buy two Magazines and send one to one of my relatives. I am enclosing part of her letter to me regarding the Magazine. (She is the only one of my relatives who has said such nice and true things about your paper.) I am sending another subscription for her this year. You will see for yourself what the paper has done?it has broken down probable prejudice and has changed an opinion?it is a missionary. It goes places where a missionary never has been. ?Queensland, Australia
I never open a new issue of the Magazine without thinking that I'll write a card to tell you what a lovely cover you had, (or some other attractive feature) or how I enjoyed the whole Magazine. I was eager to get the June issue, and when in addition to the lesson previews I found Sister Lyman's article so full of interesting beginnings of various Relief Society activities, I thought our Family Life coordinator would like to read it. It seemed to me the very finest way of acquainting her with Relief Society, and so the enclosed check is for a year's subscription for her, with the compliments of Box Elder Stake Relief Society. ?Brigham City, Utah
I enjoy the Magazine more than I can tell you; the paper is very beautiful, in fact I like the whole Magazine, and I am sure the women of the Church appreciate it as well as I do. ?Provo, Utah
Thank you very much for the six copies of the June Relief Society Magazine, containing on page 405 the "Suggested War Pantry for Emergency Use" reprinted from the American Red Cross Service letter No. 83. I appreciate your thought in sending these to me. I know that the Pacific Area office will be interested in having it called to their attention, not only because of the reprint of this article, but because of the many other fine articles which are contained in this issue, and I have forwarded to them some copies of the Magazine. ?State Representative for Utah, American Red Cross
We writers appreciate the Relief Society Magazine and its audience very much. We hear comments all the time that let us know what contacts we are making. ?Ogden, Utah
BOUND VOLUMES
PERSONS desiring to have their 1941 issues of the Relief Society Magazine bound, may do so through the office of the General Board. If Magazines are furnished with the order, the cost of cloth binding, including index, is $1.50, and the cost of leather binding, including index, is $2.00. There will be an additional charge of $1.00 if Magazines are furnished by this office. Those desiring to bind Magazines themselves may purchase materials through this office. A package containing enough material to bind 12 books sells for $3.50; these packages will not be broken in order to sell smaller amounts. Indexes will be furnished free of charge upon request. Address all orders to Relief Society General Board, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. The Three Styles or Textures of Musical Composition Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen Relief Society General Board Member ? RHYTHM, as pointed out in a previous article, completely satisfied primitive man's need for physical expression. Stories were told through dancing; bodily gestures and maneuvers were used to depict past experiences or oncoming events; drums were beaten hard and fast to produce noise and excitement. Crude vocal utterances may also have been associated with the noise. It took a long time before such crudeness could be tempered to any degree of refinement. Finally, when that point was reached, rhythm alone proved inadequate as a means of self-expression. The mental powers within man had begun to awaken and assert themselves; therefore, other mediums of expression were needed. It is not surprising that melody, a product of thought, should. Be the next element, to be ushered in. Melody as we know it in our day, having undergone the polishing of centuries, comes to us as a chain of beautifully harmonious and refined sounds. In the early ages melody was crude. And unrefined in sound and was rendered in a sort of monotonic chant. Its growth was naturally slow, but in time another tone found its way into the chant, which gave it a little more variety. Then a third: tone was added, and later a fourth. There was now enough variety of pitch to develop and extend musical thought. The ancient Greeks took cee Page 570 four tones as the basis of their scales and called them "tetrachord." ("Tetra" means four, having four parts.) Incidentally, our major scale is made ? by combining two of these tetrachords. In the course of time, the idiom which had sufficed for the musical expression of the people reached the point of exhaustion?or so it seemed. There was not so much the need of new material, however, as there was the need of new and different ways in which to use the material already available. The old familiar axiom, "Necessity is the mother of invention," was found to be true. Man's inventive urge led him into the field of experimentation. Here he discovered interesting things pertaining to music. As his ingenuity and skill increased, the tedium of rhythmic and melodic monotony decreased. Rules were formulated which gave a rather definite working knowledge of how to proceed with these newly found theories. Experiments proved that by following certain rules a melody could be started, and then very shortly after, at a specified place, this same melody could be brought in again and produce a very pleasing effect. In this way melody became its own ? support?when two or more different melodies were used in a certain prescribed way, each one became a support and strength to the other. This was the simple beginning of what later proved to be a real scientific era for music, an era which produced some truly great and outstanding musicians who left us a rich background on which to build. There are three styles or textures of musical composition: monophonic, polyphonic, and homophonic. Monophonic ("Mono" means one, and "phonic" means sound.) In music, monophonic refers to a single melody line unaccompanied. It is the oldest, as well as the simplest, of all music. "For countless ages the world was satisfied with this species of music, the division of music into parts being scarcely more than 700 years old." Chinese music is still of the monophonic style. While we speak of monophonic music as the simplest of the three styles, we must not be misled into thinking that it is trivial and that it presents no difficulties to the performer. Slow, sustained singing is the most difficult of all singing, and when done without the support of an accompaniment presents many problems. Many of the early composers made valuable contributions 'toward the perfecting of the monophonic style. St. Ambrose, who lived between 333 and 397 A. D., considered the founder of the music of the Catholic (Church, arranged the musical service according to his own ideas. He wrote many hymns and chants which were identified with his name. The Ambrosian chant was sung on one tone with a rising or falling inflection at the end of lines or verses. It conformed to the natural rhythm of speaking or of text reading. Gregory, the Great, as he was called, born about 54o A. D., pope from 590 to 604, changed and tearranged the music of the Catholic Church. The chant was made to conform to his thought of a sacred service. It was slowed down in thythm, and the natural word speaking was given less prominence. Long, sustained tones, he considered, were more effective for a large unison choir than the short ones, and better represented the solemnity of a church service. 'The Gregorian chant, as it was called, made use of more tones than had previously been used. There was also the breaking away from the custom of having a syllable for each tone. Thus, a succession of tones were often sung on a single syllable giving the melody greater smoothness. With each innovation the scope of singing was extended, and sacred music was given a deeper and more profound dignity. The Gregorian chant is the best example of finely developed, monophonic melody that we have in our Western music. George Frederick Handel has suggested the monophonic style in some of his composition. | Instruments have been used; but they play only the melody part with the voice and add the octave either above or below. The bass solo, "The People that Walked 'in Darkness," from The Messiah, and the aria part of the bass solo, "Col raggio placido," (With Placid Ray) from his opera Agrippina, Closely follows this single melody style. There are very few harmony chords used in either composition. Polyphonic ("Poly" means many? thus many sounds or voices.) In polyphonic music two or more THREE STYLES OR TEXTURES OF MUSICAL COMPOSITION 571 572 independent melodies are played or sung at the same time. 'This treatment of melodies is called contrapuntal music. The word "counterpoint" is more or less a familiar term to those who have had music training, especially those who have studied the piano or organ. In the days before our system of notation was perfected, musical sounds were represented by points. 'The word "counterpoint" was derived from the Latin words "punctum contra punctum," meaning "point against point," or as we would define it, "note against note." | In counterpoint one melody is supported by another melody, not chords, which would give us_harmony. It is read horizontally, line following line, as contrasted to harmony which we read and analyze vertically. 'There is the possibility that as early as the tenth century attempts were made to bring in additional vocal parts. It may have happened that a singer whose voice was low in pitch could not reach the tones of the melody which was sung by the group, so started at another pitch, likely a fourth or fifth lower, and carried the melody through in this way. Or it may have been that a. High voice wished to sing in a range that better fitted his voice. Whether or not it came as an accidental happening, the music-minded men had been searching diligently for just such an event and welcomed it when it came. The main melody or song tune used was called "cantus firmus." When it appeared with its succession of parallel fifths or fourths and octaves, it took the name of "organum," and later the name of "discantus." This arrangement RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1942 of music parts, with the addition of an extra interval or so, sufficed for 1000 years. The intervals of the fourth, the fifth, and the octave have regularly been chosen by untrained ears as the most natural and pleasant-sounding intervals of the scale. Two names are important in this first movement towards combining vocal parts: Hucbald (840 to 930), and Guido of Arezzo (995 to 1050). Both were profound scholars. Polyphonic music was the only kind used up until the seventeenth century, and even extended beyond that. During this time it was developed into a powerful and scientific medium of musical expression, a medium which is very difficult to grasp on first hearing and one which seldom attracts the attention of the layman. Its interest grows, however, with repeated hearings. The beautiful weaving of the different parts becomes intensely fascinating to the one who is able to follow the intricate interlacing of the parts. There is no better training for vocalists or instrumentalists than the study of contrapuntal music. Homophonic ("Homo" means sounding alike; sameness of sound; unisonous. ) This definition might confuse one with that of monophonic inasmuch as they both emphasize the single melody line. In monophonic music the melody is complete within itself. Homophonic has reference to music having for its basic structure the element of chords. The general characteristic of monophonic and polyphonic music is lineal?horizontal; that of homophonic is vertical. Thus monophonic and polyphonic music are fundamentally melody; homophonic music is principally chordal, coloristic by nature, or accompaniment to a melody. Homophonic music was unknown until the end of the sixteenth century. All music preceding that time was monophonic or polyphonic. 'The early Italian opera composers were the inventors of the homophonic style. They were fundamentally great melodists and wanted the beauty of their melodies to be undisturbed by the entrance of other melody lines. The homophonic style, too, was thought a better medium 'and dramatic fervor. Through which to express emotional It was easily conceived and was direct in its appeal and thus presented practically no listening problems at all. It is the type of music with which we are most familiar. We come in contact with it in most of our present-day music. Hymns, folk-songs, chorales (small species), solos, etc., are written in this style. Good examples. Of homophonic music are Handel's "Largo," "Ave Verum" by Mozart, "Pilgrim Chorus" by Wagner, and "A Legend" by Tschaikowsky. <A wealth of harmonic coloring can be displayed through this medium of writing. Erratum: The poem at the beginning of the article "The Lure of Melody," by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, published in the July 1942 issue of the Magazine was from "Abt Vogeler" by Browning instead of "Ben Ezra" as credited in the Magazine. A GIVE US THIS DAY Vesta P. Crawtord As you knead and turn the bread, Remember wheat, the shining grain, Think of bright metallic waves That stretch across the plain; Think of furrows in the sun And the bearded wheat in head, Recall the granary and the seed As you mold and turn the bread. Pray to God that everywhere Men may garner in the field, Let the sheaves be bound again? Give the world another yield! THREE STYLES OR TEXTURES OF MUSICAL COMPOSITION 573 <NUBy DEPARTMENT Sheology and Sestimony "Articles of Faith", by James E. Talmage Lesson 10 Authority in the Ministry (Tuesday, November 3, 1942) Condensation of Chapter 10 of Articles of Faith, by Talmage (This condensation is placed in the Magazine in the hope that it will result in more class members familiarizing themselves with the lesson.) Scriptural Examples All who minister in the ordinances of the Gospel should be called and commissioned by the authority of our Heavenly Father. The scriptures sustain this view. Familiar examples are those of Noah (Genesis 6:8), Abraham (Genesis 12-25; Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham), Samuel (I Samuel 3:4-14), Isaiah (Isaiah 1:1; 2:1; 6:8-9), Twelve Apostles chosen by Christ (Matthew 4:18-20; 18:19-20; Mark 16:15; John 6:70; 15:16), and others. Ordination of Men to the Ministry Ordination, as sanctioned by scriptural precedent and established by direct revelation of God's will, is to be effected through the gift of prophecy and by the laying on of hands Page 674 by those who are in authority. Paul admonished Timothy as follows: "Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery,..." (I Timothy 4:14) And again, "... Stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands." (II 'Timothy 1:6) Unauthorized Ministrations In His dealings with mankind, God has ever recognized and honored the Priesthood established by His direction; and has never accepted any unauthorized assumption of authority. Examples from scripture of punishment for usurpation of authority are: Korah (Numbers 16), and Miriam the sister of Moses (Numbers 12). LESSON DEPARTMENT Teachers True and False Only those who are duly authorized to teach can be regarded as true expounders of the word of God. Authority to act in the name of the Lord is given to those only who are chosen of God. It can not be had for the mere asking. It can not be bought with money. The apostles of old knew of men who sought to arrogate unto themselves the right to officiate in things divine, thus becoming servants of Satan. (Acts 20:28-30) Divine Authority in the Present Dispensation Because the authority of the Holy Priesthood was taken from the earth as the apostles of old were slain, a restoration became necessary in the latter days. In 1829, John the Baptist ordained Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery to the lesser or Aaronic Priesthood. Shortly after, Peter, James, and John appeared to Joseph and Oliver and ordained the two to the higher or Melchizedek Priesthood. Thus, in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, no man receives the Priesthood except under the hand of one who holds that Priesthood himself, and who in turn can trace his authority as having come in direct line from heavenly messengers through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Foreordination The natures, dispositions, and tendencies of men are known to the Father of their spirits, even before these beings are born in mortality. He need not wait for them to develop 575 and prove their capacities before He appoints them to special labors in the fulfillment of the Divine purposes. There is abundant evidence that Christ was chosen and ordained to be the Redeemer of the world. (I Peter 1:20) Foreordination Does Not Imply Compulsion God's knowledge and understanding of spiritual and human nature enables Him to conclude with certainty as to the actions of any of His children under given conditions; yet such knowledge has no determining influence upon the person. 'There are those whose integrity and faithfulness have been proved in the premortal state. So, the Lord knows how unreservedly they may be trusted. Many of them are called to special and exalted labors as chosen servants. Each of us is assured our free agency in the way we conduct our lives. Pre-existence of Spirits That spirits existed as organized intelligences and exercised their free agency during the primeval stage is clear from the declaration of the Lord to Abraham: And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon, and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who kept their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever. (Pearl of Great Price, Abraham 3:26) Christ explained and referred to, on many occasions, His pre-existence, examples of which are numerous in the New Testament. 576. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1942 LESSON PLAN Article 5?''We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof." Lesson Aim: To teach that the true church operates under men ministering in the ordinances of the Gospel who have been called and commissioned for their sacred duties by Divine authority. Suggested Material Outline 'J. Authority Needed in an Orderly Society When a group of individuals band together for any cause, authority must be delegated and responsibility placed. (See Sunday Night Talks, by James E. Talmage. ) IT. Authority to Administer in the Ordinances of the Gospel a. What it means to be called of God. (See Sunday Night Talks, by James E. 'Talmage, p. 220.) b. Men called of God in former days c. How ordination of men is effected ITT. Restoration of Authority in Present Dispensation a. Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthood restored b. Foreordination and pre-existence Suggested Method Outline It is suggested that the teacher assign the topic "Men Called of God in Former Days" and also "The Restoration of Authority in the Present Dispensation." More time will probably be allotted to the latter subject because of its importance to Church members. Questions which may be asked during the presentation of the lesson might be: How can you prove the existence of the Priesthood in the Church today? Name the principal holders of the Priesthood from Adam to Moses. In what manner is the Priesthood conferred? What attitude does God take toward a person who attempts to use his authority in an unrighteous manner? (Doctrine and Covenants 121:34-40) 5. In what sense, if at all, can a human institution based on Christian principles be classed as God's Church. PW NN Class leaders should be aware of the opportunity to enlist the attention and aid of the women of the Church in supporting those holding the Priesthood, for "'It is in this vast body of authority that the strength of the organization (the Church) lies." The testimonies of the class members might center about the thought of what it means to the mothers in the home to have men in the Church with the authority to administer the ordinances of the Gospel. References Talmage, James E., Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 99-103. Talmage, James E., Sunday Night Thoughts, p. 220. Visiting Seachers ) Messages To The Home Lesson 2 Reverence as an Expression of Faith (Tuesday, November 3, 1942) TO be truly reverent, one must respect, love, and obey God with a deep feeling of awe and wonder. Reverence implies that we, the created, are in the presence of Him, the Creator. When we stand on the ocean beach and look out over the vast body of water, we are filled with awe. Similarly when we consider the - beauties of nature in rock and plant or when we are in contact with the great mystery of life all around us, we marvel. What wonder we feel as we view the beautiful flowers and fruit, and contemplate that a tiny seed contained within it the power to draw from the soil sufficient nourishment of the right kind to develop into a shrub of different colors bearing seeds which have in them exactly that same force and pattern. Our bodies, too, are marvels of construction to us. What we know of the wonders of creation should increase our reverence for the unknown. Reverence for God and for all that he has brought into being is one of the essentials of a fine character. There can be no doubt about that. There have always been special places set apart for worship, places that have been dedicated to the Lord. Usually they are called "Houses of the Lord." These houses should be held sacred and holy so His spirit will abide there. In the early days of the Church He commanded the Saints to "build a house unto me," and the answer was the Kirtland Temple. In the case of the ancient Israelites, first the Ark was built and then a temple; in the case of the Nephites and of the Latter-day Saints, the temple again. They are special houses of the Lord. But our meetinghouses, or chapels, are also dedicated to God as special places of worship. They are therefore His houses, too, for in them we learn of His greatness and love. They are sacred for another reason. In the principal meeting held there, the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is administered?the most sacred ordinance known to us, for it is symbolical of His suffering and death for us. There are many ways in which reverence may be expressed. Some of these are by quiet serenity, profound awe, silence, a song, or instrumental music. But beneath the outward expression of true reverence is the spirit of reverence, and that is what is most important, after all. Discussion 1. What blessing may one obtain by attending religious services in a reverent spirit? 2. What physical conditions in our churches contribute to this spirit? 3. Why does faith in God lead to reverence for Him and His creations? 4. How does the example of older people affect children in their reverence for sacred places? Page 577 Work -andGustaiass New-Fashioned Thrift Lesson I PEACE vs. WARTIME HABITS (For optional use on Tuesday, October 13, 1942) UR national emergency is creating many problems. Home life is being disrupted and families are moving from one part of the country to another. As every American household adjusts quickly and intelligently to new surroundings and circum- 'stances, new habits of thrift and economy will take the place of waste and careless spending. An era of abundance is giving way to an era of scarcity. Limited supplies and transportation facilities will gradually force every one to live closer to the level of necessities and change materially his tastes and habits of living. Materials vital to the war are used more or less in every home. Steel, aluminum, rubber, copper, and tin head the list. Homemakers will materially aid the defense effort by exercising care in the use of equipment made of these materials. Many pet theories will be discarded and simpler and more scientific methods of conservation will be adopted. Saving by sharing, a virtue practiced long ago, may be a new experience to many in these days. Each person or family who shares his commodities makes less the immediate demand on industry for these commodities for civilian use and at the same time develops habits of friendliness and neighborliness which will no doubt endure beyond the war emergency. Almost everyone will have to adPage 578 just to changes in their habits of transportation. The automobile has come to be a necessity rather than a luxury. It has been used for many purposes?for taking men and women to their work, housewives to the grocery store, children to school, and the family to the movies. Already its use is being greatly curtailed, and as a result buses and trains are becoming overcrowded. Facilities in urban communities will no doubt become more strained, and people from the farms will be obliged to make fewer trips to town. More walking will be in order, which means good exercise and better health. Notwithstanding necessary restrictions in travel, leisure time activities and vacation habits need not be curtailed. As worries and confusion increase, it becomes increasingly necessary for people to have recreation. We have a wartime obligation to keep fit, efficient, and competent. Home entertaining can supply much of the needed recreation. Careful planning can provide relaxation that will refresh both body and mind. A picnic in the backyard, in a nearby grove, on the banks of a stream, or even in the kitchen, to which neighbors and friends have been invited, can be a memorable occasion. Refreshments need not be expensive to be satisfying and attractive. Bringing the family together where they can help cook a meal, sing songs LESSON DEPARTMENT around an open fire, or splash in an old swimming pool can be a wholesome and happy event. Eating habits are also due for changes, but family meals must not suffer. 'The national nutrition program now underway should result in balanced diets and a better fed people. Due to the war, there are fewer supplies of some canned foods. Less tin cans with fewer sizes will be available. The old soup kettle and bean pot will return to help in the new thrift program. With sugar rationing now in effect and rationing of other foods likely, more fresh and dried fruits and vegetables and more dairy products will be used. The health and well-being of the family depends in large measure upon the choice of food. It is hoped and expected that those who can, will produce enough of the protective foods, such as fruits, vegetables, eggs, and milk, to care for the needs of all. In places where weeds thrived, victory gardens are now growing. The market basket should evidence changed buying practices. What in peacetime was casual pastime, now becomes a serious responsibility. One trip to market should take the place of several. A complete list of everything needed should be made before making the shopping trip, and enough provisions should be purchased for the week, if possible, instead of for three or four days. Purchasers should ask to have delivered, 579 on the regular schedule, only those things that cannot be carried. Markets should be better known and purchasers should not trust too much to shopping via telephone. They should know how to buy by grade or label rather than by the ten cents worth. Clothing should be bought according to the kind of wardrobe best suited to the needs of the family, with consideration being given to that which will wear a reasonable length of time and will still be attractive. Instead of throwing away clothes when they are a bit worn, or silk or nylon stockings when the first thread breaks, carefully mend these; remodel clothing if necessary; freshen by sponging and pressing, and then enjoy wearing it for months to come. Checking over the list of things one intends to buy for himself to see how many items he can do without is good practice. Everyone needs to save, to share, to sacrifice, to make adjustments. To do this and still be cheerful is one of the biggest contributions one can make toward the high ideals of life we have long struggled to maintain. Questions for Discussion 1. How has your family curtailed the use of the automobile? 2. Have you changed any of your shopping habits? 3- In what other ways can you visualize that we may have to change our habits to fit in with the war program? TS itensieut The Bible As Literature. Lesson 2 BACKGROUND OF THE BIBLE (Tuesday, November 17, 1942), (Class leaders should constantly keep in mind that this course considers the Bible only as literature, and makes no attempt at theological problems. ) Objective: To present significant characteristics of the geography of the Holy Land and to point out the effect of natural surroundings upon a people and their literature. Lesson Topics 1. The geography of the Holy Land. 2. The influences of the natural background upon the life and literature of the Hebrew people. Geography of the Holy Land John Kelman in his interesting book on the Bible says that a journey through the Holy Land is a sort of sacramental event in a person's life. "Spiritual things are very near to us, and we feel that we have a heritage in them; yet they constantly elude us and need help from the senses to make them real and commanding. 'That is why a journey through the land of the people who gave us divine literature is such a sacred event." Since most of us do not have the privilege of taking such a journey, we must substitute for it as best we can. Anything that will help the senses make the experiences recorded in the Bible "real and commanding" should be brought to our aid. The more vividly we see the Holy Land itself and understand its geoPage 580 graphic influences upon the lives of the people who recorded the Bible, the more certainly will this scripture be received with understanding and appreciation, and the more convincing will the Christian faith become. The coloring of a country is important in giving a lasting impression of it. We remember this general aspect as the background against which we see other more important features of the country. The coloring of the Holy Land is unusual. We are told that its edge lines are traced in faint shades of varied hues, and that there are strata forming rich brown bands. Other bands are dark red, purple, yellow, and black. The lower strata are a dominant gray with a bluish tinge, to which the colored bands give a startling decorative appearance. Not only is the color of the earth itself remarkable, but so also is that of the vegetation. Judea is said by travelers to be almost indescribable in its coloring. On the south is the fertile valley of Hebron with a wealth of orchards and plantations, north of which the Valley of Samaria winds among rounded hills with vine-covered terraces topped with olive trees. In this part LESSON DEPARTMENT of the country, the dominating green of the vegetation is broken by patches of dove-colored clay and varie- _ gated stones. The plains of Samaria are often covered with a yellow mist which makes their natural red color seem to resemble a field of blood. This is a memorable phenomenon, since these plains have been the great battlefield of the Eastern World; time and again the ground has been drenched with blood. In Galilee, according to travelers, the color of the limestone formation is intensified by the blueness of the sky, giving a frosted silver effect, especially when the sun strikes the clouds about the white Hermon Mountains covered with snow. Phoenicia, in the main, is also white, though in its higher valleys unusual rocks break through rich, dark soil. These rocks are eggshaped and a beautiful deep crimson. Tyre, at harvest time, is said to be truly wonderful in color with its yellow grain fields below cliffs as white as marble. In some parts of Syria the delicate colors?yellowish, bluish, greenish hues?are said to appear to have been put on thc landscape in thin washes. In other parts, the colors, usually in horizontal stripes, run in vertical strata, spread out like a vast Indian shawl made with cunningly interwoven red and green threads. Even the bodies of water differ in color, the Sea of Galilee being light blue and the Dead Sea light green. John Kelman says: " 'Spiritual' describes the faint dreamlike mountains in the extreme distance from Syrian vistas. East of the Jordan the | colors are grey, blue, and lilac. Wild flowers (iris or the lilies of the field) 581 ' form a carpet near the villages in the spring." He says that the flowers of the Holy Land are of every color; there are scarlet poppies, crimson anemones, blue corn flowers, yeliow marigolds, and white narcissus (the rose of Sharon). Even the animal life conforms to the general dainty color scheme. Lizards, for instance, everywhere take on the color of tl. Eir environment. They may be stone grey, red, or cream. Chameleons and tortoises also adapt their coloring to things around them. They are blue at sulphur springs, brown or slate when on the muddy banks. Whagjever there is one of the couptless springs in the Holy Land, there is the brilliant green of the oasis. 'The Jordan Valley has been compared to a green serpent crawling between pale mountains. "Lamascus is a bewitching city of white, seemingly resting on a carpet of dark green velvet, jeweled with minarets of many hues. Stretching out from it are paler and paler shades of rose and yellow, blending into tlie lilac of the hills." The sun acts as a magician upon Syria. "It makes the mica, which bespangles some parts of the country, gleam like jewels; it throws up bold contrasts of strong light and shadow and at sunset sends a crimson flush on the olive groves and turns the white cliffs to a flesh-colored marble." Palestine, located in Southwestern Asia, is bounded on the west by the Mediterranean Sea, on the north by the Lebanon Mountains, and on the south and east by the desert. It is a small area, containing only 10,000 square miles. It is 140 miles long and about fifty miles wide. One writer says you could lose it in many of the counties of Texas, and that 582 standing on the Mount of Olives just outside of Jerusalem one can see the Mediterranean on the west, and the Dead Sea and the River Jordan on the east. From "Dan to Beersheba" is not as far as from New York to Washington. The Mount of Olives is about one-third as high as Mount Timpanogos in Utah Valley which stands 11,957 feet above sea level. Though the Holy Land has bulked so large in history and religion, it is not as large as Rhode Island., George H. Armstrong says: "In its physical configuration Palestine is an epitome of the whole world." The great variety of climate and natural features produces a corresponding diversity in the plant and animal life. There are said to be 113 species of mammals, 348 of birds, 91 of reptiles and Amphibia, and more than 3,000 kinds of flowering plants. Is it any wonder that one of the striking literary characteristics of the Bible is its beautiful figures of speech drawn from nature? In many ways this country is a land of contrasts. It is shut off from the rest of the world, yet the great highways of the East pass through it. On the south and the east the desert borders it like a wall of insulation, as does the almost unnavigable Mediterranean on the west. Besides these natural barriers, it. Has many mountains with deep, abrupt gorges which make intercourse very difficult. Yet it held within its confines the highest civilization of the Old World. The Influence of the Natural ? Background Upon the Character of the Hebrew People In a study of any great literature RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1942 in which human beings are revealed in their relationships to each other and to their physical world, the natural background of the story or drama is important. The influence of geography upon the destiny of the Chosen People is particularly striking. The smallness of the land and its isolation developed characteristics among the Hebrew people important to their contribution to the world. Had Palestine taken on ordinary cosmopolitanism, had it been subject to closer contact with influences that would have made it narrow, stubborn, and inhospitable, the story of the Chosen People would have been vastly different. In Chapter III of The English Bible as Literature, Mr. Dinsmore discusses most interestingly the influences of the surroundings upon the literature of the Chosen People. He shows how the strength of the hills, the tang of the upland air, the broad horizons energized the wills, stimulated the imaginations, shaped the character of the Hebrew people; how religious beliefs and expressions were natural under the circumstances; how inbreeding and the ? discipline of earlier years of nomagic life developed a virile people able to perform the task God had given them. The isolation of the Latter-day Saints, God's chosen people of modern times, there in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains, presents a significant analogy. Could the Latterday Saints have worked out their unique destiny had they not in those important, formative years of the early existence of the Church been separated from the rest of the world? Does this thought perhaps throw a new light upon the persecutions LESSON DEPARTMENT which drove them into isolation? Dr. Philo Buck in The Golden Thread says: "The early Hebrew prided himself upon his desert origin and mode of life. He was a Bedouin who could not forget the aristocracy of the desert nomad.... By a fortunate series of circumstances he was later forced against the great trade route between Babylonia and Egypt and thus brought into contact with old and settled cultures of the world.... It was a fortunate site these Children of Israel chose, but one of deadly danger; for they must be strong to hold their position; and as wars between Egypt and Babylonia were not infrequent, the Hebrews learned the misery of a small buffer state between two powerful rivals. Palestine was the Belgium of the Near East." Doctor Buck continues with an interesting account of the climb to national greatness of the Hebrews, their short but brilliant period of national superiority. He shows how the political and economic changes through which they passed because the motive for much of their best literature. But he also emphasizes the fact that through their entire history the Hebrews never forgot the isolation of their desert origin and the simplicity of their life then, during which time they developed their great personal loyalty to the Hebrew God, Yahweh. "Kings and a landed aristocracy and the luxury of the settled life and the new impact of the surrounding Paganism were ever felt to be a stain on the original purity of the desert manners. Luxury was always synonymous with sin." They considered themselves a people "set apart." In like manner are we urged to consider ourselves, if we are to per- 583 form the work of the Lord has given us the privilege of doing. We, as they, must not forget our heritage which has made us "a peculiar people," a people "set apart" from the rest of mankind for a very special mission. The Bible reveals the unfoldment of the people and shows the influence of geography upon that unfolding "way of life.' Doctor Buck says: "Their finest poetry is always inspired, not by the ways of men, but by the majesty of nature and its mystery." Following is one of the many examples which might be quoted: "The heavens declare the glory of God; And the firmament showeth his handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, And night unto night sheweth knowledge. There is no speech nor language, Where voice is not heard. Their line is gone out through all the earth, And their words to the end of the world." ?(igth Psalm) We see the influence of environment upon the poetic imagination when the singer turns from the burning heat to the comfort of the oasis and the running brook: "The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: He leadeth me beside the still waters, He restoreth my soul." ?(23rd Psalm) This brief discussion has attempted two things: to give some idea of the physical features of the Holy Land, and to indicate that the geography of a country influences the life of the people and the literature they produce. 584 Lesson Helps 1. Display maps of the Holy Land and point out geographic features prominent in Biblical literature. 2. If possible make a collection of pictures showing the people and typical activities of early life in Palestine. Perhaps someone who has visited the Holy Land can be presented to discuss the country and the customs typical of Hebrew life. 3. Discuss the influence of environment upon the character and personality of different peoples. Illustrate with examples from the Hebrews and the Latter-day Saints. 4. Read excerpts from Bible poetry to show the influence of natural surroundings upon literature. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1942 References Dinsmore, C. A., The English Bible As Literature, Chapter III. Alder, Lydia D., The Holy Land. Fulleylove and Kelman, The Holy Land, Painted and Described (Beautifully Illustrated). Carpenter, Frank George, The Holy Land and Syria. Armstrong, George H., How to Know the Bible. James, Baike, Living Stories of the Bible. (This has lovely colored pictures revealing the physical background and the people in action. ) % Social Science What "America" Means LESSON 2 (Tuesday, November 24, 1942) OUR HERITAGE "Remove not the ancient landmark, which thy fathers have set." HEN we think of our English forebears who settled the | shores of America in the seventeenth century, there come to our minds the two colonies: Virginia and Plymouth. The first permanent English settlers in the Western World landed at Jamestown in 1607, and a later group of "adventurers," the Pilgrim fathers, were driven by chance of wind and ways to land on the coast of Massachusetts. 'They received the royal promise of freedom to worship God as they pleased. Thus was established the beginning of England's colonial empire in the (Proverbs 22:28) New World; and the local self-government of the people in their small towns and communities was destined to develop the American commonwealth. As we Americans come to see the value and importance of our country, its beauty, and the ideals and heritage of the people, we discover that the roots of our civilization are elemental traits?good will, neighborliness, courage, tolerance, openminded inquiry, patience. A people rich in these qualities will develop art, science, industry, government. These finer underlying traits are ac- LESSON DEPARTMENT quired in the intimate, friendly world of the family and the small community. "It is the seedbed of society," as a writer in the Atlantic Monthly recently pointed out, and "only as such traits have opportunity to grow in the kindly, protective shelter of family and small communities, where there is intimate acquaintance and mutual confidence, do they become vigorous and mature enough to survive." Naturally, the soil had to be conquered, and agriculture was the first industry developed. The chief product was corn, the cultivation of which was learned from the Indians. It became the staple product of the colonists; it is the staple product of America today. Agriculture meant the conquest of the soil, and during our entire pioneer history the work of subduing the wilderness continued with fervor. Agriculture has been the basis of our material lives, and upon the foundation so securely laid the nation has erected its superstructure of industrial and cultural life. From the beginning of human history, man has tilled the ground, and an old Persian proverb says: "He who sows corn, sows righteousness." We read in the Bible that Elijah's home was in the remote districts of Gilead, and he found his successor, Elisha, in northern Israel plowing with twelve yoke of oxen. The Hebrew race was one of the rugged, virile sort produced on the farm, tilling the soil, planting the vine, following the sheep?all of which added to their love of God. The subject of "Our Heritage" is made doubly interesting because of the many foodstuffs that were given to our forebears by the American In- 585 dians. American archaelogists tell us that our debt to the Indians for their gift to civilization of maize and many other foods is something that Americans should greatly appreciate. In a little book of big accomplishments, called appropriately Givers of Life, Emma Franklin Estabrook of Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, gives us arresting facts. She quotes Doctor Spinden: "The annual value to this country alone of food plants, forty-five in all, brought to cultivation by the farmer Indians, largely of Peru, is three billion dollars." Quoting rather freely from Mts. Estabrook's book and others, let me summarize: "All of our important food plants come from the Indians. Corn alone took the patience of centuries to develop from a wild grass no larger than a head of wheat. The corn now raised in six colors by the Indians of the Southwest is of unusual size; it is prepared by the women into fifty-seven different dishes and is eighty-five percent of their food. We white Americans are not indifferent to com. To mention the commonest vegetables used, we list potatoes (sweet and white), beans (lima string, and kidney), pumpkin, squash, peppers, tomatoes, artichokes, okra, and avocados. Concentrating the sap of the maple tree and corn stalk gave them maple and corn syrup, and THREE STYLES OR TEXTURES OF MUSICAL COMPOSITION
thought. The ancient Greeks took the four tones as the basis of their scales and called them "tetrachord." ("Tetra" means four, having four parts.) Incidentally, our major scale is made by combining two of these tetrachords. In the course of time, the idiom which had sufficed for the musical expression of the people reached the point of exhaustion?or so it seemed. There was not so much the need of new material, however, as there was the need of new and different ways in which to use the material already available. The old familiar axiom, "Necessity is the mother of invention," was found to be true. Man's inventive urge led him into the field of experimentation. Here he discovered interesting things pertaining to music. As his ingenuity and skill increased, the tedium of rhythmic and melodic monotony decreased. Rules were formulated which gave a rather definite working knowledge of how to proceed with these newly found theories. Experiments proved that by following certain rules a melody could be started, and then very shortly after, at a specified place, this same melody could be brought in again and produce a very pleasing effect. In this way melody became its own support?when two or more different melodies were used in a certain prescribed way, each one became a support and strength to the other. This was the simple beginning of what later proved to be a real scientific era for music, an era which produced some truly great and outstanding musicians who left us a rich background on which to build.
There are three styles or textures of musical composition: monophonic, polyphonic, and homophonic.
Monophonic ("Mono" means one, and "phonic" means sound.) In music, monophonic refers to a single melody line unaccompanied. It is the oldest, as well as the simplest, of all music. "For countless ages the world was satisfied with this species of music, the division of music into parts being scarcely more than 700 years old." Chinese music is still of the monophonic style. While we speak of monophonic music as the simplest of the three styles, we must not be misled into thinking that it is trivial and that it presents no difficulties to the performer. Slow, sustained singing is the most difficult of all singing, and when done without the support of an accompaniment presents many problems. Many of the early composers made valuable contributions toward the perfecting of the monophonic style. St. Ambrose, who lived between 333 and 397 A. D., considered the founder of the music of the Catholic Church, arranged the musical service according to his own ideas. He wrote many hymns and chants which were identified with his name. The Ambrosian chant was sung on one tone with a rising or falling inflection at the end of lines or verses. It conformed to the natural rhythm of speaking or of text reading. Gregory, the Great, as he was called, born about 540 A. D., pope from 590 to 604, changed and rearranged the music of the Catholic Church. The chant was made to conform to his thought of a sacred service. It was slowed down in rhythm, and the natural word speaking was given less prominence. Long, sustained tones, he considered, were more effective for a large unison choir than the short ones, and better represented the solemnity of a church service. The Gregorian chant, as it was called, made use of more tones than had previously been used. There was also the breaking away from the custom of having a syllable for each tone. Thus, a succession of tones were often sung on a single syllable giving the melody greater smoothness. With each innovation the scope of singing was extended, and sacred music was given a deeper and more profound dignity. The Gregorian chant is the best example of finely developed, monophonic melody that we have in our Western music. George Frederick Handel has suggested the monophonic style in some of his composition. Instruments have been used; but they play only the melody part with the voice and add the octave either above or below. The bass solo, "The People that Walked in Darkness," from The Messiah, and the aria part of the bass solo, "Col raggio placido," (With Placid Ray) from his opera Agrippina, closely follows this single melody style. There are very few harmony chords used in either composition.
Polyphonic ("Poly" means many?thus many sounds or voices.) In polyphonic music two or more independent melodies are played or sung at the same time. This treatment of melodies is called contrapuntal music. The word "counterpoint" is more or less a familiar term to those who have had music training, especially those who have studied the piano or organ. In the days before our system of notation was perfected, musical sounds were represented by points. The word "counterpoint" was derived from the Latin words "punctum contra punctum," meaning "point against point," or as we would define it, "note against note." In counterpoint one melody is supported by another melody, not chords, which would give us harmony. It is read horizontally, line following line, as contrasted to harmony which we read and analyze vertically. There is the possibility that as early as the tenth century attempts were made to bring in additional vocal parts. It may have happened that a singer whose voice was low in pitch could not reach the tones of the melody which was sung by the group, so started at another pitch, likely a fourth or fifth lower, and carried the melody through in this way. Or it may have been that a high voice wished to sing in a range that better fitted his voice. Whether or not it came as an accidental happening, the music-minded men had been searching diligently for just such an event and welcomed it when it came. The main melody or song tune used was called "cantus firmus." When it appeared with its succession of parallel fifths or fourths and octaves, it took the name of "organum," and later the name of "discantus." This arrangement of music parts, with the addition of an extra interval or so, sufficed for 1000 years. The intervals of the fourth, the fifth, and the octave have regularly been chosen by untrained ears as the most natural and pleasant-sounding intervals of the scale. Two names are important in this first movement towards combining vocal parts: Hucbald (840 to 930), and Guido of Arezzo (995 to 1050). Both were profound scholars. Polyphonic music was the only kind used up until the seventeenth century, and even extended beyond that. During this time it was developed into a powerful and scientific medium of musical expression, a medium which is very difficult to grasp on first hearing and one which seldom attracts the attention of the layman. Its interest grows, however, with repeated hearings. The beautiful weaving of the different parts becomes intensely fascinating to the one who is able to follow the intricate interlacing of the parts. There is no better training for vocalists or instrumentalists than the study of contrapuntal music.
Homophonic ("Homo" means sounding alike; sameness of sound; unisonous.) This definition might confuse one with that of monophonic inasmuch as they both emphasize the single melody line. In monophonic music the melody is complete within itself. Homophonic has reference to music having for its basic structure the element of chords. The general characteristic of monophonic and polyphonic music is lineal?horizontal; that of homophonic is vertical. Thus monophonic and polyphonic music are fundamentally melody; homophonic music is principally chordal, coloristic by nature, or accompaniment to a melody. Homophonic music was unknown until the end of the sixteenth century. All music preceding that time was monophonic or polyphonic. The early Italian opera composers were the inventors of the homophonic style. They were fundamentally great melodists and wanted the beauty of their melodies to be undisturbed by the entrance of other melody lines. The homophonic style, too, was thought a better medium through which to express emotional and dramatic fervor. It was easily conceived and was direct in its appeal and thus presented practically no listening problems at all. It is the type of music with which we are most familiar. We come in contact with it in most of our present-day music. Hymns, folk-songs, chorales (small species), solos, etc., are written in this style. Good examples of homophonic music are Handel's "Largo," "Ave Verum" by Mozart, "Pilgrim Chorus" by Wagner, and "A Legend" by Tschaikowsky. A wealth of harmonic coloring can be displayed through this medium of writing.
Erratum: The poem at the beginning of the article "The Lure of Melody," by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, published in the July 1942 issue of the Magazine was from "Abt Vogeler" by Browning instead of "Ben Ezra" as credited in the Magazine.

GIVE US THIS DAY
Vesta P. Crawford
As you knead and turn the bread, Remember wheat, the shining grain, Think of bright metallic waves That stretch across the plain;
Think of furrows in the sun And the bearded wheat in head, Recall the granary and the seed As you mold and turn the bread.
Pray to God that everywhere Men may garner in the field, Let the sheaves be bound again? Give the world another yield!

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
"Articles of Faith", by James E. Talmage
Lesson 10 Authority in the Ministry (Tuesday, November 3, 1942)
Condensation of Chapter 10 of Articles of Faith, by Talmage
(This condensation is placed in the Magazine in the hope that it will result in more class members familiarizing themselves with the lesson.)
Scriptural Examples
All who minister in the ordinances of the Gospel should be called and commissioned by the authority of our Heavenly Father. The scriptures sustain this view. Familiar examples are those of Noah (Genesis 6:8), Abraham (Genesis 12-25; Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham), Samuel (I Samuel 3:4-14), Isaiah (Isaiah 1:1; 2:1; 6:8-9), Twelve Apostles chosen by Christ (Matthew 4:18-20; 18:19-20; Mark 16:15; John 6:70; 15:16), and others.
Ordination of Men to the Ministry
Ordination, as sanctioned by scriptural precedent and established by direct revelation of God's will, is to be effected through the gift of prophecy and by the laying on of hands by those who are in authority. Paul admonished Timothy as follows: "Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery,..." (I Timothy 4:14) And again, "... Stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands." (II Timothy 1:6)
Unauthorized Ministrations
In His dealings with mankind, God has ever recognized and honored the Priesthood established by His direction; and has never accepted any unauthorized assumption of authority. Examples from scripture of punishment for usurpation of authority are: Korah (Numbers 16), and Miriam the sister of Moses (Numbers 12).
Teachers True and False
Only those who are duly authorized to teach can be regarded as true expounders of the word of God. Authority to act in the name of the Lord is given to those only who are chosen of God. It can not be had for the mere asking. It can not be bought with money. The apostles of old knew of men who sought to arrogate unto themselves the right to officiate in things divine, thus becoming servants of Satan. (Acts 20:28-30)
Divine Authority in the Present Dispensation
Because the authority of the Holy Priesthood was taken from the earth as the apostles of old were slain, a restoration became necessary in the latter days. In 1829, John the Baptist ordained Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery to the lesser or Aaronic Priesthood. Shortly after, Peter, James, and John appeared to Joseph and Oliver and ordained the two to the higher or Melchizedek Priesthood. Thus, in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, no man receives the Priesthood except under the hand of one who holds that Priesthood himself, and who in turn can trace his authority as having come in direct line from heavenly messengers through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Foreordination
The natures, dispositions, and tendencies of men are known to the Father of their spirits, even before these beings are born in mortality. He need not wait for them to develop and prove their capacities before He appoints them to special labors in the fulfillment of the Divine purposes. There is abundant evidence that Christ was chosen and ordained to be the Redeemer of the world. (I Peter 1:20)
Foreordination Does Not Imply Compulsion
God's knowledge and understanding of spiritual and human nature enables Him to conclude with certainty as to the actions of any of His children under given conditions; yet such knowledge has no determining influence upon the person. There are those whose integrity and faithfulness have been proved in the premortal state. So, the Lord knows how unreservedly they may be trusted. Many of them are called to special and exalted labors as chosen servants. Each of us is assured our free agency in the way we conduct our lives.
Pre-existence of Spirits
That spirits existed as organized intelligences and exercised their free agency during the primeval stage is clear from the declaration of the Lord to Abraham:
And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon, and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who kept their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever. (Pearl of Great Price, Abraham 3:26)
Christ explained and referred to, on many occasions, His pre-existence, examples of which are numerous in the New Testament.

LESSON PLAN
Article 5?"We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof."
Lesson Aim: To teach that the true church operates under men ministering in the ordinances of the Gospel who have been called and commissioned for their sacred duties by Divine authority.
Suggested Material Outline
I. Authority Needed in an Orderly Society When a group of individuals band together for any cause, authority must be delegated and responsibility placed. (See Sunday Night Talks, by James E. Talmage.)
II. Authority to Administer in the Ordinances of the Gospel a. What it means to be called of God. (See Sunday Night Talks, by James E. Talmage, p. 220.) b. Men called of God in former days c. How ordination of men is effected
III. Restoration of Authority in Present Dispensation a. Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthood restored b. Foreordination and pre-existence
Suggested Method Outline
It is suggested that the teacher assign the topic "Men Called of God in Former Days" and also "The Restoration of Authority in the Present Dispensation." More time will probably be allotted to the latter subject because of its importance to Church members. Questions which may be asked during the presentation of the lesson might be:
1. How can you prove the existence of the Priesthood in the Church today?
2. Name the principal holders of the Priesthood from Adam to Moses.
3. In what manner is the Priesthood conferred?
4. What attitude does God take toward a person who attempts to use his authority in an unrighteous manner? (Doctrine and Covenants 121:34-40)
5. In what sense, if at all, can a human institution based on Christian principles be classed as God's Church.
Class leaders should be aware of the opportunity to enlist the attention and aid of the women of the Church in supporting those holding the Priesthood, for "It is in this vast body of authority that the strength of the organization (the Church) lies." The testimonies of the class members might center about the thought of what it means to the mothers in the home to have men in the Church with the authority to administer the ordinances of the Gospel.
References
Talmage, James E., Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 99-103. Talmage, James E., Sunday Night Thoughts, p. 220.

Visiting Teachers' Messages To The Home
Lesson 2 Reverence as an Expression of Faith (Tuesday, November 3, 1942)
TO be truly reverent, one must respect, love, and obey God with a deep feeling of awe and wonder. Reverence implies that we, the created, are in the presence of Him, the Creator.
When we stand on the ocean beach and look out over the vast body of water, we are filled with awe. Similarly when we consider the beauties of nature in rock and plant or when we are in contact with the great mystery of life all around us, we marvel. What wonder we feel as we view the beautiful flowers and fruit, and contemplate that a tiny seed contained within it the power to draw from the soil sufficient nourishment of the right kind to develop into a shrub of different colors bearing seeds which have in them exactly that same force and pattern. Our bodies, too, are marvels of construction to us. What we know of the wonders of creation should increase our reverence for the unknown.
Reverence for God and for all that he has brought into being is one of the essentials of a fine character. There can be no doubt about that.
There have always been special places set apart for worship, places that have been dedicated to the Lord. Usually they are called "Houses of the Lord." These houses should be held sacred and holy so His spirit will abide there. In the early days of the Church He commanded the Saints to "build a house unto me," and the answer was the Kirtland Temple. In the case of the ancient Israelites, first the Ark was built and then a temple; in the case of the Nephites and of the Latter-day Saints, the temple again. They are special houses of the Lord. But our meetinghouses, or chapels, are also dedicated to God as special places of worship. They are therefore His houses, too, for in them we learn of His greatness and love. They are sacred for another reason. In the principal meeting held there, the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is administered?the most sacred ordinance known to us, for it is symbolical of His suffering and death for us.
There are many ways in which reverence may be expressed. Some of these are by quiet serenity, profound awe, silence, a song, or instrumental music. But beneath the outward expression of true reverence is the spirit of reverence, and that is what is most important, after all.
Discussion
1. What blessing may one obtain by attending religious services in a reverent spirit?
2. What physical conditions in our churches contribute to this spirit?
3. Why does faith in God lead to reverence for Him and His creations?
4. How does the example of older people affect children in their reverence for sacred places?

Work and Business
New-Fashioned Thrift
Lesson 1 PEACE vs. WARTIME HABITS (For optional use on Tuesday, October 13, 1942)
OUR national emergency is creating many problems. Home life is being disrupted and families are moving from one part of the country to another. As every American household adjusts quickly and intelligently to new surroundings and circumstances, new habits of thrift and economy will take the place of waste and careless spending. An era of abundance is giving way to an era of scarcity. Limited supplies and transportation facilities will gradually force every one to live closer to the level of necessities and change materially his tastes and habits of living.
Materials vital to the war are used more or less in every home. Steel, aluminum, rubber, copper, and tin head the list. Homemakers will materially aid the defense effort by exercising care in the use of equipment made of these materials. Many pet theories will be discarded and simpler and more scientific methods of conservation will be adopted.
Saving by sharing, a virtue practiced long ago, may be a new experience to many in these days. Each person or family who shares his commodities makes less the immediate demand on industry for these commodities for civilian use and at the same time develops habits of friendliness and neighborliness which will no doubt endure beyond the war emergency.
Almost everyone will have to adjust to changes in their habits of transportation. The automobile has come to be a necessity rather than a luxury. It has been used for many purposes?for taking men and women to their work, housewives to the grocery store, children to school, and the family to the movies. Already its use is being greatly curtailed, and as a result buses and trains are becoming overcrowded. Facilities in urban communities will no doubt become more strained, and people from the farms will be obliged to make fewer trips to town. More walking will be in order, which means good exercise and better health.
Notwithstanding necessary restrictions in travel, leisure time activities and vacation habits need not be curtailed. As worries and confusion increase, it becomes increasingly necessary for people to have recreation. We have a wartime obligation to keep fit, efficient, and competent. Home entertaining can supply much of the needed recreation. Careful planning can provide relaxation that will refresh both body and mind. A picnic in the backyard, in a nearby grove, on the banks of a stream, or even in the kitchen, to which neighbors and friends have been invited, can be a memorable occasion. Refreshments need not be expensive to be satisfying and attractive. Bringing the family together where they can help cook a meal, sing songs around an open fire, or splash in an old swimming pool can be a wholesome and happy event.
Eating habits are also due for changes, but family meals must not suffer. The national nutrition program now underway should result in balanced diets and a better fed people. Due to the war, there are fewer supplies of some canned foods. Less tin cans with fewer sizes will be available. The old soup kettle and bean pot will return to help in the new thrift program. With sugar rationing now in effect and rationing of other foods likely, more fresh and dried fruits and vegetables and more dairy products will be used. The health and well-being of the family depends in large measure upon the choice of food. It is hoped and expected that those who can, will produce enough of the protective foods, such as fruits, vegetables, eggs, and milk, to care for the needs of all. In places where weeds thrived, victory gardens are now growing.
The market basket should evidence changed buying practices. What in peacetime was casual pastime, now becomes a serious responsibility. One trip to market should take the place of several. A complete list of everything needed should be made before making the shopping trip, and enough provisions should be purchased for the week, if possible, instead of for three or four days. Purchasers should ask to have delivered, on the regular schedule, only those things that cannot be carried. Markets should be better known and purchasers should not trust too much to shopping via telephone. They should know how to buy by grade or label rather than by the ten cents worth.
Clothing should be bought according to the kind of wardrobe best suited to the needs of the family, with consideration being given to that which will wear a reasonable length of time and will still be attractive. Instead of throwing away clothes when they are a bit worn, or silk or nylon stockings when the first thread breaks, carefully mend these; remodel clothing if necessary; freshen by sponging and pressing, and then enjoy wearing it for months to come.
Checking over the list of things one intends to buy for himself to see how many items he can do without is good practice. Everyone needs to save, to share, to sacrifice, to make adjustments. To do this and still be cheerful is one of the biggest contributions one can make toward the high ideals of life we have long struggled to maintain.
Questions for Discussion
1. How has your family curtailed the use of the automobile?
2. Have you changed any of your shopping habits?
3. In what other ways can you visualize that we may have to change our habits to fit in with the war program?

Literature
The Bible As Literature
Lesson 2 BACKGROUND OF THE BIBLE (Tuesday, November 17, 1942)
(Class leaders should constantly keep in mind that this course considers the Bible only as literature, and makes no attempt at theological problems.)
Objective: To present significant characteristics of the geography of the Holy Land and to point out the effect of natural surroundings upon a people and their literature.
Lesson Topics
1. The geography of the Holy Land.
2. The influences of the natural background upon the life and literature of the Hebrew people.
Geography of the Holy Land
John Kelman in his interesting book on the Bible says that a journey through the Holy Land is a sort of sacramental event in a person's life. "Spiritual things are very near to us, and we feel that we have a heritage in them; yet they constantly elude us and need help from the senses to make them real and commanding. That is why a journey through the land of the people who gave us divine literature is such a sacred event."
Since most of us do not have the privilege of taking such a journey, we must substitute for it as best we can. Anything that will help the senses make the experiences recorded in the Bible "real and commanding" should be brought to our aid. The more vividly we see the Holy Land itself and understand its geographic influences upon the lives of the people who recorded the Bible, the more certainly will this scripture be received with understanding and appreciation, and the more convincing will the Christian faith become.
The coloring of a country is important in giving a lasting impression of it. We remember this general aspect as the background against which we see other more important features of the country. The coloring of the Holy Land is unusual. We are told that its edge lines are traced in faint shades of varied hues, and that there are strata forming rich brown bands. Other bands are dark red, purple, yellow, and black. The lower strata are a dominant gray with a bluish tinge, to which the colored bands give a startling decorative appearance.
Not only is the color of the earth itself remarkable, but so also is that of the vegetation. Judea is said by travelers to be almost indescribable in its coloring. On the south is the fertile valley of Hebron with a wealth of orchards and plantations, north of which the Valley of Samaria winds among rounded hills with vine-covered terraces topped with olive trees. In this part of the country, the dominating green of the vegetation is broken by patches of dove-colored clay and variegated stones. The plains of Samaria are often covered with a yellow mist which makes their natural red color seem to resemble a field of blood. This is a memorable phenomenon, since these plains have been the great battlefield of the Eastern World; time and again the ground has been drenched with blood.
In Galilee, according to travelers, the color of the limestone formation is intensified by the blueness of the sky, giving a frosted silver effect, especially when the sun strikes the clouds about the white Hermon Mountains covered with snow. Phoenicia, in the main, is also white, though in its higher valleys unusual rocks break through rich, dark soil. These rocks are egg-shaped and a beautiful deep crimson. Tyre, at harvest time, is said to be truly wonderful in color with its yellow grain fields below cliffs as white as marble.
In some parts of Syria the delicate colors?yellowish, bluish, greenish hues?are said to appear to have been put on the landscape in thin washes. In other parts, the colors, usually in horizontal stripes, run in vertical strata, spread out like a vast Indian shawl made with cunningly interwoven red and green threads.
Even the bodies of water differ in color, the Sea of Galilee being light blue and the Dead Sea light green. John Kelman says: "'Spiritual' describes the faint dreamlike mountains in the extreme distance from Syrian vistas. East of the Jordan the colors are grey, blue, and lilac. Wild flowers (iris or the lilies of the field) form a carpet near the villages in the spring." He says that the flowers of the Holy Land are of every color; there are scarlet poppies, crimson anemones, blue corn flowers, yellow marigolds, and white narcissus (the rose of Sharon).
Even the animal life conforms to the general dainty color scheme. Lizards, for instance, everywhere take on the color of their environment. They may be stone grey, red, or cream. Chameleons and tortoises also adapt their coloring to things around them. They are blue at sulphur springs, brown or slate when on the muddy banks.
Wherever there is one of the countless springs in the Holy Land, there is the brilliant green of the oasis. The Jordan Valley has been compared to a green serpent crawling between pale mountains. "Damascus is a bewitching city of white, seemingly resting on a carpet of dark green velvet, jeweled with minarets of many hues. Stretching out from it are paler and paler shades of rose and yellow, blending into the lilac of the hills."
The sun acts as a magician upon Syria. "It makes the mica, which bespangles some parts of the country, gleam like jewels; it throws up bold contrasts of strong light and shadow and at sunset sends a crimson flush on the olive groves and turns the white cliffs to a flesh-colored marble."
Palestine, located in Southwestern Asia, is bounded on the west by the Mediterranean Sea, on the north by the Lebanon Mountains, and on the south and east by the desert. It is a small area, containing only 10,000 square miles. It is 140 miles long and about fifty miles wide. One writer says you could lose it in many of the counties of Texas, and that standing on the Mount of Olives just outside of Jerusalem one can see the Mediterranean on the west, and the Dead Sea and the River Jordan on the east. From "Dan to Beersheba" is not as far as from New York to Washington. The Mount of Olives is about one-third as high as Mount Timpanogos in Utah Valley which stands 11,957 feet above sea level. Though the Holy Land has bulked so large in history and religion, it is not as large as Rhode Island.
George H. Armstrong says: "In its physical configuration Palestine is an epitome of the whole world." The great variety of climate and natural features produces a corresponding diversity in the plant and animal life. There are said to be 113 species of mammals, 348 of birds, 91 of reptiles and Amphibia, and more than 3,000 kinds of flowering plants. Is it any wonder that one of the striking literary characteristics of the Bible is its beautiful figures of speech drawn from nature?
In many ways this country is a land of contrasts. It is shut off from the rest of the world, yet the great highways of the East pass through it. On the south and the east the desert borders it like a wall of insulation, as does the almost unnavigable Mediterranean on the west. Besides these natural barriers, it has many mountains with deep, abrupt gorges which make intercourse very difficult. Yet it held within its confines the highest civilization of the Old World.
The Influence of the Natural Background Upon the Character of the Hebrew People
In a study of any great literature in which human beings are revealed in their relationships to each other and to their physical world, the natural background of the story or drama is important. The influence of geography upon the destiny of the Chosen People is particularly striking. The smallness of the land and its isolation developed characteristics among the Hebrew people important to their contribution to the world. Had Palestine taken on ordinary cosmopolitanism, had it been subject to closer contact with influences that would have made it narrow, stubborn, and inhospitable, the story of the Chosen People would have been vastly different.
In Chapter III of The English Bible as Literature, Mr. Dinsmore discusses most interestingly the influences of the surroundings upon the literature of the Chosen People. He shows how the strength of the hills, the tang of the upland air, the broad horizons energized the wills, stimulated the imaginations, shaped the character of the Hebrew people; how religious beliefs and expressions were natural under the circumstances; how inbreeding and the discipline of earlier years of nomadic life developed a virile people able to perform the task God had given them.
The isolation of the Latter-day Saints, God's chosen people of modern times, there in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains, presents a significant analogy. Could the Latter-day Saints have worked out their unique destiny had they not in those important, formative years of the early existence of the Church been separated from the rest of the world? Does this thought perhaps throw a new light upon the persecutions which drove them into isolation?
Dr. Philo Buck in The Golden Thread says: "The early Hebrew prided himself upon his desert origin and mode of life. He was a Bedouin who could not forget the aristocracy of the desert nomad.... By a fortunate series of circumstances he was later forced against the great trade route between Babylonia and Egypt and thus brought into contact with old and settled cultures of the world.... It was a fortunate site these Children of Israel chose, but one of deadly danger; for they must be strong to hold their position; and as wars between Egypt and Babylonia were not infrequent, the Hebrews learned the misery of a small buffer state between two powerful rivals. Palestine was the Belgium of the Near East."
Doctor Buck continues with an interesting account of the climb to national greatness of the Hebrews, their short but brilliant period of national superiority. He shows how the political and economic changes through which they passed became the motive for much of their best literature. But he also emphasizes the fact that through their entire history the Hebrews never forgot the isolation of their desert origin and the simplicity of their life then, during which time they developed their great personal loyalty to the Hebrew God, Yahweh. "Kings and a landed aristocracy and the luxury of the settled life and the new impact of the surrounding Paganism were ever felt to be a stain on the original purity of the desert manners. Luxury was always synonymous with sin." They considered themselves a people "set apart."
In like manner are we urged to consider ourselves, if we are to perform the work the Lord has given us the privilege of doing. We, as they, must not forget our heritage which has made us "a peculiar people," a people "set apart" from the rest of mankind for a very special mission.
The Bible reveals the unfoldment of the people and shows the influence of geography upon that unfolding "way of life." Doctor Buck says: "Their finest poetry is always inspired, not by the ways of men, but by the majesty of nature and its mystery." Following is one of the many examples which might be quoted:
"The heavens declare the glory of God; And the firmament showeth his handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, And night unto night sheweth knowledge. There is no speech nor language, Where voice is not heard. Their line is gone out through all the earth, And their words to the end of the world." ?(19th Psalm)
We see the influence of environment upon the poetic imagination when the singer turns from the burning heat to the comfort of the oasis and the running brook:
"The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: He leadeth me beside the still waters, He restoreth my soul." ?(23rd Psalm)
This brief discussion has attempted two things: to give some idea of the physical features of the Holy Land, and to indicate that the geography of a country influences the life of the people and the literature they produce.
Lesson Helps
1. Display maps of the Holy Land and point out geographic features prominent in Biblical literature.
2. If possible make a collection of pictures showing the people and typical activities of early life in Palestine. Perhaps someone who has visited the Holy Land can be presented to discuss the country and the customs typical of Hebrew life.
3. Discuss the influence of environment upon the character and personality of different peoples. Illustrate with examples from the Hebrews and the Latter-day Saints.
4. Read excerpts from Bible poetry to show the influence of natural surroundings upon literature.
References
Dinsmore, C. A., The English Bible As Literature, Chapter III. Alder, Lydia D., The Holy Land. Fulleylove and Kelman, The Holy Land, Painted and Described (Beautifully Illustrated). Carpenter, Frank George, The Holy Land and Syria. Armstrong, George H., How to Know the Bible. James, Baike, Living Stories of the Bible. (This has lovely colored pictures revealing the physical background and the people in action.)

Social Science
What "America" Means
LESSON 2 (Tuesday, November 24, 1942)
OUR HERITAGE
"Remove not the ancient landmark, which thy fathers have set." (Proverbs 22:28)
WHEN we think of our English forebears who settled the shores of America in the seventeenth century, there come to our minds the two colonies: Virginia and Plymouth. The first permanent English settlers in the Western World landed at Jamestown in 1607, and a later group of "adventurers," the Pilgrim fathers, were driven by chance of wind and ways to land on the coast of Massachusetts. They received the royal promise of freedom to worship God as they pleased. Thus was established the beginning of England's colonial empire in the New World; and the local self-government of the people in their small towns and communities was destined to develop the American commonwealth.
As we Americans come to see the value and importance of our country, its beauty, and the ideals and heritage of the people, we discover that the roots of our civilization are elemental traits?good will, neighborliness, courage, tolerance, open-minded inquiry, patience. A people rich in these qualities will develop art, science, industry, government. These finer underlying traits are acquired in the intimate, friendly world of the family and the small community. "It is the seedbed of society," as a writer in the Atlantic Monthly recently pointed out, and "only as such traits have opportunity to grow in the kindly, protective shelter of family and small communities, where there is intimate acquaintance and mutual confidence, do they become vigorous and mature enough to survive."
Naturally, the soil had to be conquered, and agriculture was the first industry developed. The chief product was corn, the cultivation of which was learned from the Indians. It became the staple product of the colonists; it is the staple product of America today. Agriculture meant the conquest of the soil, and during our entire pioneer history the work of subduing the wilderness continued with fervor. Agriculture has been the basis of our material lives, and upon the foundation so securely laid the nation has erected its superstructure of industrial and cultural life.
From the beginning of human history, man has tilled the ground, and an old Persian proverb says: "He who sows corn, sows righteousness." We read in the Bible that Elijah's home was in the remote districts of Gilead, and he found his successor, Elisha, in northern Israel plowing with twelve yoke of oxen. The Hebrew race was one of the rugged, virile sort produced on the farm, tilling the soil, planting the vine, following the sheep?all of which added to their love of God.
The subject of "Our Heritage" is made doubly interesting because of the many foodstuffs that were given to our forebears by the American Indians. American archaeologists tell us that our debt to the Indians for their gift to civilization of maize and many other foods is something that Americans should greatly appreciate. In a little book of big accomplishments, called appropriately Givers of Life, Emma Franklin Estabrook of Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, gives us arresting facts. She quotes Doctor Spinden: "The annual value to this country alone of food plants, forty-five in all, brought to cultivation by the farmer Indians, largely of Peru, is three billion dollars."
Quoting rather freely from Mrs. Estabrook's book and others, let me summarize: "All of our important food plants come from the Indians. Corn alone took the patience of centuries to develop from a wild grass no larger than a head of wheat. The corn now raised in six colors by the Indians of the Southwest is of unusual size; it is prepared by the women into fifty-seven different dishes and is eighty-five percent of their food. We white Americans are not indifferent to corn. To mention the commonest vegetables used, we list potatoes (sweet and white), beans (lima string, and kidney), pumpkin, squash, peppers, tomatoes, artichokes, okra, and avocados. Concentrating the sap of the maple tree and corn stalk gave them maple and corn syrup, and maple and corn sugar. In medicine, the Indian discovered that witch-hazel leaves eased pain; that by chewing the leaves of a plant called coca and allowing the saliva to run into a wound, anaesthesia was produced. From that came modern isolation of cocaine, used in dentistry and surgery. The Indians of New York used trees, herbs, and plants, to the number of one hundred and fifty, for medicine, food, and cordage. From the Indian came tobacco. From him also came cotton which he raised for his hammocks and garments and wove on a hand loom with a technical skill in hand weaving never equaled by the white man. We are indebted to him for rubber?this to the Indian of Peru. He was a highly practical chemist but did not know it, as instanced in two of the world's finest dyes, black and red: He boiled wild bees plant until it became a paste, furnishing the world's finest black; he cultivated a tiny insect using the red liquid from its body in producing cochineal, a scarlet dye of great beauty. We are indebted to him for legends of great beauty; art, also. In his Epic of America, James Truslow Adams says he considers the Indian trails their greatest contribution. Considering the difficulties, size of the country, hills, mountains, lakes, rivers, and forests, it must have taken the patience of centuries to locate them. Thousands and thousands of miles are clearly marked out over the entire continent, chosen in a manner that would have done credit to a modern engineer. You see our twentieth century civilization has much for which we | should thank the "Givers of Life." WHILE the people from Europe in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries came to America for religious freedom, another ruling motive was the desire to enjoy the security of a home. Religious sentiment lies very closely to the hearthstone. The home-building instinct of the American people has been a powerful factor in creating a love for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1942 good government, which results always in a greater love for God. This spirit is typified in the lives of George Washington, 'Thomas Jeffer-. Son, Abraham Lincoln, Brigham Young, and others. The homes of all these men were typical of the poor in their day, except, possibly, that of Washington. Their houses were built of logs, the chinks daubed with clay and the roof thatched with long grass. Among the books on the "parlor table' were the Bible, Young's Night Thoughts, and Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. Salt meat and bread were the principal foods. But they were homes, the centers of religious life and faith. The idea of educating the children and youth prevailed among the American colonies from the beginning of their history. The first school in the colonies was the College of Henrico, in Virginia, which was destroyed by the Indians in 1622. Within a few years after the Pilgrims came, schools were maintained and the New Englanders were so anxious that their children should learn to read and write, that the Massachusetts General Assembly. Took the lead in constructive educational legislation, and the law passed by that body in 1647 is regarded as the most important school law in American history. This law required every township having fifty householders to provide a teacher and a school building where the children were to be taught to read and write. When a town grew to one hundred families, a grammar school that would fit the youth for college was to be organized. Eight of our greatest colleges were founded before the American Revolution. The idea of community work, LESSON DEPARTMENT where all the people got together, is characteristic of all the first communities in American life and _history.. This was particularly true in New England and Utah in the days of pioneer development. A few days before the Pilgrims landed on Plymouth Rock in 1620, they drew up a document called "The Mayflower Compact." This brief statement of government embodies the very spirit of democracy and liberty. It reads: In the name of God, Amen. We, whose names are under written, the loyal subjects of our dread Sovereign, King James, by the grace of God, Great Britain, France, and Ireland, King, Defender of the Faith, etc. Having undertaken for the glory of God, and advancement of the Christian Faith, and honor of our king and country, a voyage to plant the first colonies in the northern part of Virginia, do, by those presents, solemnly and mutually, in the presence of God, and one of another, covenant and combine ourselves together into a civil body politic, for our better ordering and preservation and furtherance of the ends aforesaid:. And by virtue hereof, to enact, constitute, and frame such just and equal laws, ordinances, acts, constitutions, offices, from time to time as shall be thought most meet and convenient for the general good of the Colonies. Unto which we promise all due submission and obedience. In witness thereof, we have hereunto subscribed our names at Cape Cod, the 17th of November, in the year of the reign of our sovereign Lord, King James of England, France, and Ireland the eighteenth, and Scotland the fifty-fourth, Anno Domini, 1620. In the early days of Utah, the New England town government was adopted. Communities were Church communities where all the people took part in making the civic laws, for their religion bred in them fundamental ideals of civic life. The old New England town government was the most democratic and best 587 form of local government that was ever developed. Meetinghouses became the social and religious centers of the communities. Here were the dance, the school, and the theater. Here the people met to worship God, which was fundamental to the fine, cooperative life in early-day Utah. The American people from the beginning inherited fine ideals of life, and the pioneer history of our country is the story of the development of agriculture, the home, the church, the state, and the school. These are the fundamental institutions of American civilization. Topics and Questions For Discussion 1. It will be interesting for every reader of this lesson to find references in the Bible concerning agriculture. Refer to Isaiah 35, for example. What great contribution have the pioneers to Utah made to agriculture? 2. What have the Indians contributed to our agricultural history? Try to find information concerning the history of maize or Indian corn. What foods did the Indians make from maize? 3. What were some of the characteristics of the pioneer home in America, particularly in Utah? Why were the family groups deeply religious? 4. What was the New England town government? (See Young's Founding of Utah.) 5. What do you think was meant when an ancient philosopher wrote: "He who sows corn, sows righteousness"? (Corn was a general term and meant any kind of cereal.) 6. Name some of the first universities in America? (Harvard College, Yale College, Dartmouth College, were three of the earliest colleges. They were patterned after the old English universities.) What did the Mormon pioneers do to develop education in early days? General Presidents Of Relief Society (For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science lessons.) LESSON 2 Eliza R. Snow Second Relief Society President (Tuesday, November 24, 1942) ROM the year 1866 until her death in 1887, Eliza R. Snow was the leading woman among the Latter-day Saints. She presided over all the Relief Societies and, for a time, over all the Mormon women's organizations. She was particularly well fitted for such responsibility because of the blending in her nature of spiritual, intellectual, and practical gifts. The pioneer women who looked to her for guidance thirsted for the spiritual, hungered for the intellectual?"the glory of God"?and would have perished without knowledge of the practical. While still young, Eliza Snow manifested her versatility. She won first prize for a poem in Godey's Lady's Book, a famous fashion and literary magazine. But she had also won first prize at the county fair for the best home manufactured leghorn straw for hats. When her younger brother, Lorenzo, needed his "'freedom suit," she made it, and also his military uniform, which he would entrust to no other hands and which turned out to be "magnificent." Eliza Roxey Snow was born January 21, 1804, in Becket, Massachusetts, the second of seven children of Oliver and Rosetta L. Pettibone Snow. The family migrated and became pioneer settlers of Mantua, Ohio. Miss Snow writes of her parents that "their house was a resort Page 588 for the good and intelligent of all denominations, and their hospitality was proverbial"; that "their integrity was unimpeachable"; that "they carefully trained their children to habits of industry, economy, and strict morality, and extended to them the best facilities for scholastic education that the country afforded." In 1829, Eliza Snow heard vague rumors of a new prophet with a new religion. Later she heard two witnesses of the Book of Mormon testify that they had seen a holy angel. Her soul was thrilled, but she took time to deliberate. In 1835, the Spirit bore witness to her, and she was baptized. In Mantua, Eliza Snow's society was sought by people of culture and intellect. She had won recognition for a rousing article, "The Fall of Missolonghi," which event had occurred in the war for Greece's independence from Turkey, and which had stirred another poet, Lord Byron, to take up arms as well as write. Afterward she was requested to write a requiem for ex-Presidents Adams and Jefferson, who died on the same Fourth of July. Always afire with patriotism, she was widely acclaimed for this effort. A literary career seemed assured; yet she forsook all worldly ambitions and moved to Kirtland, where she was happy in her new religion. This period was a high point in LESSON DEPARTMENT Church history. Spiritual gifts were poured out upon the people. They spoke in tongues and interpreted. The lame, the blind, the deaf, and dumb were miraculously healed. A great peace and rejoicing filled the hearts of the Saints. Miss Snow contributed generously to the Kirtland Temple. She taught a select school for young ladies, and the following year taught the family school of the Prophet Joseph. She was impressed with the daily life of this great man. She writes:. "His lips ever flowed with instruction and kindness.... His expansive mind solved the mystic problem of man's destiny; he was in possession of the keys that unlocked the past and the future, with its succession of eternities. Yet in his devotion he was as humble as a little child. Three times a day he had family worship." (Tullidge, Women of Mormondom.) When the Saints left Ohio for Missouri, the Snows settled in Adam-Ondi-Ahman, paying in full for two homesteads including the farm crops. The old settlers seemed friendly, but actually had plotted to sell to the Mormons, then drive them off and repossess their property. Millers refused to grind the wheat of Mormons, so the Saints perforated tin pails and stove pipes for graters and made corn meal. This they moistened with boiled pumpkin, adding milk or butter and baking the palatable mixture. When Governor Boggs ordered the Saints to leave Missouri, the former owner of the Snow property walked in and impudently inquired how soon they would be out of the house. In 1839 Eliza Snow reached Nauvoo. She was one of the group who planned a Ladies' Society. She wrote 589 the by-laws which the women showed to the Prophet who stated that he himself had been planning an organization for women of the Church under the Priesthood only of far greater scope than the one they contemplated. When he organized. The Relief Society in 1842 Sister Snow was its first secretary. She took careful lucid minutes that are of great historical importance today. Sometimes she quoted President Joseph Smith verbatim; and other times she wrote a summary. She wrote many poems and hymns at this time among them was the inspired "Oh My Father!" which she entitled "Invocation." In-flight from Nauvoo Eliza R. Snow kept a careful record of the journey. In spite of physical suffering, such as that resulting from painfully frosted feet, she did her part in the necessary everyday work of camp life, joining the women in washing and making pot-pie of squirrel, quail, rabbit and prairie-chicken procured by the hunters of the company. Unacquainted with animals, she nevertheless drove an ox team. She also nursed a sick companion and son and prepared their meals. Upon arriving at Winter Quarters, she collapsed. Crossing the plains, she again kept an invaluable record. She mentions the Nauvoo Temple bell which accompanied them?how it awakened the herdsman, called the Saints to prayer, and was used for signaling. (The General Board of Relief Society, for its centennial celebration, is erecting a campanile for this bell on the Temple Square, in Salt Lake City.) In Utah, there was no formal Relief Society organization until early 590 in the 1850's. In 1866, Eliza R. Snow was asked by President Brigham Young to help the bishops organize Relief Societies in all the wards and settlements. From 1866 to 1880, she stood at the head of the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association as well as Relief Society. Under Sister Snow's presidency were begun these women's enterprises: the establishment of the Deseret Hospital, the publication of the Woman's Exponent, silk worm culture, manufacturing of silk, operation of a woman's exchange store, storing of grain, and the building of Relief Society halls. Other able women aided her. Sister Snow presided over the women's work in the temples. She was active in the Polysophical Society founded in 1854 to encourage culture and refinement in the desert. In 1872, she accompanied Brother George A. Smith, her brother Lorenzo and other distinguished persons on a trip to Palestine, to dedicate the land to the return of the Jews. This experience filled each visitor with a sacred happiness, and Eliza R. Snow wrote glowing accounts of it. The party also visited in Europe and were entertained by prominent people, including nobility. Eliza Snow was a neat, precise person, always a lady, by nature and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1942 appearance an aristocrat. Yet she possessed a deep sense of democracy and humility, and a stern sense of justice and righteousness. She particularly hated dishonesty, deceit, and hypocrisy. People respected her and came to her with their burdens, -which she lifted. She discovered talent and encouraged it. She was a fluent speaker. Verily her heart was a vessel which caught and held the Holy Spirit, whose influence was transmitted to her hearers not only from her lips but from her dark eyes which glowed as she spoke, so that people never forgot them.; She died December 5, 1887, honored and mourned by the entire Church. References Handbook of Relief Society, p. 111 et passim. Centenary of Relief Society, p..10 et passim. Relief Society Magazine, April 1916, pp. 183-190; March 1942, pp. 166-167. Poems by Eliza R. Snow: Our Legacy, Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse, pp. 65-70; Relief Society Magazine, March 1916, p. 121; April 1916, pp. 181, 190; December 1917, pp. 663-665; January 1925, p. 1; March 1942, p. 149. Pictures of Eliza R. Snow: Relief Society Handbook, p. 108; Our Legacy, Relief.. Society.. Centennial.. Anthology.. Of Verse, Facing page; Centenary of Relief Society, p. 10 et passim; Relief Society Magazine, February 1915, p. 46; April 1916, p. 182; January 1935, p. 17; March 1938, p..150; March 1942, p. 167. Let love be without dissimulation. Abhor that which is evil; Cleave to that which is good." ?Romans 12:9 Ww LARKIN MORTUARIES Ogden, Utah 466 24th St. Telephone 821 Los Angeles, California 6003 Compton Avenue Jefferson 1244 Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-9126 THEY'RE WELL SERVICED MANY ELECTRICAL DEALERS ARE EQUIPPED TO REPAIR AND ADJUST APPLIANCES AT REASONABLE COST... UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. "L. D. S. TRAINING PAYSI'' In PRIVATE INDUSTRY or in GOVERNMENT OFFICES- ?you can serve better if you have been trained professionally for the job. REGISTRATION DATES, FALL TERM: AUGUST 31 and SEPTEMBER 8. Ask for our "Bulletin of Information" L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2? Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 

