OF INTEREST TO WOMEN 453
Boston Cookies. I c. Butter 1-2 ts. Salt 1 c. Sugar 1 ts. Cinnamon 3 eggs 1 c. Coarsely chopped nuts 1-2 ts. Soda 1-2 c. Currants 2 tbs. Water or milk 1-2 c. Raisins chopped 3 1-4 c. Flour 1 ts. B. P. Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and eggs well beaten. Add dry ingredients sifted together and water. Add floured fruits and nuts. Beat thoroughly. Drop by teaspoonfuls on a buttered sheet. Bake in moderate oven. Madelines. Make plain cup cakes. When cool, remove the centers with a sharp knife and fill with jelly, fruit creams, or french custards; replace the top and ice. These keep moist a long time, and are delicious for lunches. Fig Biscuit Sandwiches. Chop 1 c. Figs, add 1-2 c. Cream. Place in double boiler and cook slowly on back of stove until cream is all absorbed. Cool and spread between crisp, thin, buttered, baking powder biscuits. Prune Turnovers. Soak prunes several hours, drain, remove pits and sprinkle with nutmeg and a little lemon juice. Make rich baking powder biscuits. Roll to 1-4 inch thickness. Cut pieces about 4 inches square. Fill with prune mixture. Pinch the edges together at the top. Brush over with cream. Sprinkle with sugar and bake. Four Things to Do Henry Van Dyke Four things a man must learn to do,' If he would make his record true: To think without confusion, clearly, To love his fellowmen sincerely, To act from honest motives purely, To trust in God and heaven securely. Items About Women New York University Honors Women A bust of Frances Willard has recently been unveiled in the Hall of Fame of the University of New York. Other women who are memorialized in the Hall are Harriet Beecher Stowe, Mary Lyon, Emma Willard, Alice Freeman Palmer, Maria Mitchel and Charlotte Cushman. Of this group, Miss Willard was a reformer, Mrs, Stowe an author, Mary Lyon, Emma Willard and Alice Freeman Palmer were educators; Maria Mitchel an astronomer, and Charlotte Cushman an actress.: Miss Olive Jones of New York, President of the N. E. A. It is pretty much an unwritten law in the National Education Association that the presidency of the association shall fall to a woman every alternate year. In harmony with this policy, Miss Olive Jones of New York was elected president at the session of the National Education Association recently held in Oakland and San Francisco. This is the first time the office has fallen to a New York woman. Utah Woman Finds Place on School Board We congratulate Provo in the appointment of a woman on the Board of Education of that city. Mrs. Margaret P. Maw has had experience both as a teacher and as a business woman and will no doubt render valuable service in the position which has come to her through the resignation of Mr. Arthur N. Taylor. Utah is behind in this matter. Two years ago the state of Pennsylvania had five hundred women serving on school boards. Dr. Henry C. Cowles Visits Utah Dr. Henry C. Cowles, of the University of Chicago, is giving work at the Alpine Summer school, at Aspen Grove. It was known that Professor Cowles was bringing a group of his stu-— dents to Utah to study plant life in this very exceptional environment, but the surprise came when the party arrived and it was discovered that the group consisted of eighteen women. Daughters of the Pioneers In a number of cities of the State, the 24th of July celebration was staged and put over by the Daughters of the Pioneers with signal success. The Magazine extends congratulations to these women for their excellent community work cn the occasion of the
ITEMS ABOUT WOMEN 455 76th anniversary of the Pioneers entering the valley of the Great Salt Lake. Politics and Twins Recently the Indianapolis Star published a line which reads, "The great need of France, now as always, is less politics, and more twins." It usually takes a woman to make a matter quite complete. Utah can furnish both the politics and the twins. We congratulate Senator and Mrs. W. H. King on the birth of a son and a daughter, July 17. Enfranchizing the Italian Women The work of enfranchising the Italian women seems to be progressing very satisfactorily. The people of Latin origin both in Europe and America seem to be somewhat backward in this particular; consequently, we congratulate the Italian women on what at present seems to be an almost certain fact—her enfranchisement, in the very near future. Finnish Woman Serves Fifth Term in National Parliament.— Miss Annie Furuhjeln, who is now serving her fifth three-year term as a member of the Finnish Parliament, has probably had a longer experience than any other woman in a national law making body. The Finnish Diet is a body of two hundred persons, at present having a membership of twenty women. Miss Furuhjeln is at present interested in a bill asking for the appropriation of funds for the instruction of Swedish girls in home economics., The American Passion Play California is full of enthusiasm once more, as_ it begins the training for what has been called 'America's Passion Play," to be put on near Hollywood now for the fourth time. The play was written by the late Mrs. Christine Wetherill Stevenson, of Philadelphia, and like the Passion Play of Oberammergau, held every ten years, in Bavaria, Germany, concerns the Christ. Mr. Herberg Grimwood will play the role of Christ, and Helen Freeman will be seen again in that of Mary Magdelene. Convention Held at Seneca Falls A convention was held at Seneca Falls, July 20 and 21, commemorating the seventy-fifth anniversary of a first Equal Rights meeting ever held in the world. This convention was called by Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. On July 22, memorial exercises were held at the grave of Susan B. Anthony at Mt. Hope cemetery at Rochester, New York. On the evening of July 22, a pageant of the convention of 1848 was re-enacted on the bank of the Seneca River. Fifty women in the costumes ' 
 of seventy-five years ago impersonated the participants in the first equal rights convention, with Mrs. Claude Christopher as Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Edward B. GouJd as Lucretia Mott, Miss Helen Addison as Martha C. Wright and Mrs. Milton Sanderson as Amelia Bloomer, then a milliner in Seneca Falls, who originated the garment which still bears her name. Dr. Chew in Utah Dr. Ng. Poon Chew, managing editor of an American-Chinese daily was a guest in Utah during the month of July. He states that there are approximately four hundred Chinese women studying in American Universities at the present time. Living Wisely and Well: SAN FRANCISCO, JULY 3, 1923 By Heber J. Sears, Department of Hygiene, University of Utah
THE CONVENTION JDEA
Although not entirely new, the convention idea is growing by leaps and bounds, and is pregnant with splendid possibilities. Modern modes of transportation have made possible the coming together of workers in the different fields of endeavor from even remote parts of the globe. Think of the futility of calling a world conference of educators a hundred years ago! In San Francisco today there are assembled in one convention educators from sixty different nations. The convention is a feast at which each participant throws his knowledge into the common pot, from which we may all feed. The convention is a stage on which each actor has a "tryout." He may be hissed off the stage or he may make good and play an important part in the drama of life. The convention is a laboratory where a theory may develop into a fact, or be destroyed by the acid test of practical experience. The convention is a parade where each brings his idea symbolized by a torch. His torch may be obscured by brighter lights, it may be entirely extinguished, or it may be fanned into a flame that will illumine the world. The convention is a clearing house of information—good checks in the form of ideas get the stamp of approval, bogus checks are thrown back to the depositor. The convention may be likened to a melting pot, a threshing floor, or to a buffing wheel for the polishing of ideas. The convention is a battle-ground, an arena from which many a hobby-horse emerges riderless. Tired Mothers A little elbow leans upon your knee, Your tired knee, that has so much to bear; A child's dear eyes are looking lovingly From underneath a thatch of tangled hair. Perhaps you do not heed the velvet touch Of warm, moist fingers folding yours so tight;— You do not prize this blessing over much; You almost are too tired to pray tonight. But it is blessedness; A year ago I did not see it as I do today,— We are so dull and thankless; and too slow To catch the sunshine till it slips away. And now, it seems surpassing strange to me That, while I wore the badge of motherhood, I did not kiss more oft and tenderly The little child that brought me only good. And, if some night, when you sit down to rest, You miss this elbow from your tired knee, This restless, curling head from off your breast; This lisping tongue that chatters constantly; If from your own the dimpled hands had slipp'd, And ne'er would nestle in your palm again; If the white feet into their graves had tripped, I could not blame you for your heart-ache then. I wonder so that mothers ever fret At little children clinging to their gown, Or that the footprints, when the days are wet, Are ever black enough to make them frown. If I could find a little muddy boot, Or cap, or jacket, on my chamber floor, If I could kiss a rosy, restless foot, And hear its patter in my home once more; If I could mend a broken cart today, Tomorrow make a kite to reach the sky, There is no woman in God's world could say She was more blissfully content than I. But ah! The dainty pillow next my own, Is never rumpled by a shining head; My singing birdling from his nest has flown, The little boy I used to kiss is dead! Mrs. May Riley Smith, quoted in Millennial Star, Vol 48.
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman. Eastern States Mission BUFFALO BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY A Relief Society organization was effected January 4, 1923, at Buffalo, New York. Mrs. Elea M. Browning was erin" al president of this branch. There are nineteen members enrolled, and meetings are held weekly in the homes of the various members. In March, this society held a bazaar and social. Over $40 was cleared from the sale of articles which were donated by friends and members. This branch is now making clothing and knitting stockings to be distributed to those in need. A picture of the Buffalo branch is printed herewith. Raft River Stake Owing to the removal of President Celia A. Harper to Ogden, Utah, the Raft River stake Relief Society was reorganized May 21, 1923. Mrs. Harper has served as president of the stake Relief Society since 1917. Her work has been of a high character, and she has been faithful and devoted to the Relief Society and the Church. Mrs. Harper was given an honorable release, and the good wishes of her Relief Society co-workers and her many friends in this stake, were extended to her. Mrs. Abbie C. Ottley was selected as the new president of the Raft River stake Relief Society.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 459 © Western States Mission. Mrs. John M. Knight, president of the Relief Society of the Western States Mission, reports that she has just returned from visiting various branches of the mission. Mrs. Knight visited the Relief Societies in Lincoln, Omaha, Grand Island and Pilger, Nebraska. Mrs. Knight reports that these Societies are all in a flourishing condition. Woodruff Stake Two years ago the Woodruff stake Relief Society asked the various members to report the number of chapters of scripture which each had read during the week. During the year, 1922, five wards reported a total of 4,354 chapters of scripture read. Morgan Stake The Morgan stake Relief Society had their annual temple excursion June 13, at the Salt Lake Temple. Kanab Stake The Relief Society Magazine is in receipt of the following sketch of Mrs. Emma S. Brown, of Fredonia: "Mrs. Emma S. Brown wag the president of the first Relief Society of the Fredonia ward, which was organized in 1893. She held the position for twenty-five consecutive years, and during the period of her presidency, an excellent organization was developed. Under her direction a Relief Society house was built. Mrs. Brown was a most worthy president and was always ready to serve those who were in distress, not only because of her position, but because of her sympathy, kindness and generosity. Her daughter, Mrs. Eva Brown Hortt, has succeeded her as president, and is carrying on the good work of her mother. Besides her public service, Mrs. Brown reared a family of twelve children. She is still active as postmistress at Fredonia. Mrs. Brown is seventy-two years of age." Liberty Stake The Liberty stake Relief Society board has issued! A bulletin Or a comparative report of the activities of the various wards.. The report lists the various wards, and gives statistics showing the per cent of enrollment and attendance at the different meetings, the per cent of L. D. 'S. Families visited, and the amount of wel: fare and temple work done. In addition to the work of the visiting: teachers, the Liberty stake has visited the sick and homebound. Several meetings were held at the County Infirmary, the Sarah Daft Home and the L. D.

 S. Hospital. Flowers, fruit, candy, etc., were distributed during the year and special gifts were made at the holiday time. New Zealand Mission.
AUCKLAND BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY
President Ida A. Taylor and secretary Miriam A. Taylor have been released from their positions in the Relief Society of the New Zealand mission. Mrs. Taylor, together with her husband, President George S. Taylor, called at the Relief Society office on their return to Salt Lake City. Mrs. Martha Jane Wright will succeed Mrs. Taylor as president of the Relief Society. Mrs. Taylor reports that President Angus T. Wright and his wife arrived in New Zealand in June and found the weather disagreeably cold. June is one of the New Zealand winter months. During Mrs. Taylor's presidency, she has worked faithfully and untiringly in the interest of the Relief Society. She reports that the women have been interested in the meetings and that they have made a study of the lessons in the Magazine. There are thirty-three Relief Society organizations, two of which, one at Auckland and one at Thames, are European organizations. The other thirty-one are composed of the Maori women. The secretaries of all these Relief Societies speak English and are able to make their reports and write letters in English. Mrs. Taylor arranged for the lessons which appear in the Magazine to be translated into the Maori language.