REBECCA NEIBAUR NIBLEY
Rebecca Neibaur Nibley
By Amy Brown Lyman
Another noble pioneer woman has passed to her reward in the person of Mrs. Rebecca Neibaur Nibley, wife of President Charles W. Nibley and for many years a member of the General Board of Relief Society. Mrs. Nibley's earthly life closed in the early dawn of July 2nd at the family residence in Salt Lake City, where she was surrounded by her husband and children, who ministered to her during her last illness. The funeral services were held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, where hundreds of relatives and friends gathered to pay tribute to her, and where her remains lay in a lovely bluish-gray metallic casket surrounded by masses of beautiful flowers. Bishop James A. Giles of the 14th Ward was in charge; the speakers were President Heber J. Grant, President Anthony W. Ivins and Bishop Nicholas G. Smith of the 17th Ward. Among the musical numbers rendered was the hymn "Come, Thou Glorious Day of Promise," the words of which were composed by Mrs. Nibley's gifted and brilliant father, Alexander Neibaur. Interment was in the family lot in Logan City cemetery; the grave was dedicated by President Joseph R. Shepherd of the Logan Temple.
In the passing of Rebecca N. Nibley, her husband and children have lost a loving, affectionate, and devoted wife and mother; her friends, a true and valiant friend; the Church, a staunch supporter and faithful member. During her long life it had been no trial for her to make personal sacrifices for her loved ones. It had been no task for her to minister to their daily needs, nurse them in times of illness and help to lighten their burdens. She suffered when they suffered, and rejoiced in their joys. She was an ideal wife and helpmeet, devoted and loyal to her husband and his interests, and their success in life was due in no small measure to her ability, devotion, and industry. She worked shoulder to shoulder with him, and her practical wisdom and vision were a great asset in the partnership. She was energetic and ambitious, frugal and thrifty, ingenuous and resourceful. When left to support herself and two children while her husband performed a mission in England, her resources consisted of a small piece of hay land, a cow, a pig, and some chickens. She took care of her garden, raised chickens, and sold milk, butter, and eggs; and, by good management, succeeded in maintaining her family without assistance. During this time $300 in cash was paid her on a debt. This money she carefully kept intact for a new start for her husband on his return.


It takes a great soul to be a true friend. There was no wavering in the friendship of this noble woman. She was dependable, loyal, tender and true; and once a friend, a friend always. No new influence in her life and no period of separation from her friends affected her feelings or devotion to them, and she was never happier than when extending hospitality in her beautiful and well kept home. Fortunate were those who tasted of this rare friendship.
Rebecca N. Nibley was a true and faithful Latter-day Saint, her life conforming to the standards and practices of the Church. She had a strong testimony of the divinity of the Gospel and implicit faith in its teachings. Her life was dominated by these religious ideals, for which she was more than willing to sacrifice. It was an inspiration to hear her testimony, which was forceful and positive, gained through years of varied and remarkable experiences. Her faith in the Gospel, her loyalty to the Church and its leaders, were unbounded. She did not criticize the leaders nor the policies of the Church. In any crisis she was fearless and without any wavering or doubt. Her view point was invariably positive and orthodox.
Mrs. Nibley was a strong character?brave and fearless. She was a woman of honor and principle, a doer of right. She had no place in her life for pretense, for the hypocrite, or for the person who shirked responsibilities and obligations. She could not tolerate the idea of a person claiming to be honest and straightforward who was not so in daily practice. She loved honesty and frankness and was a typical example of the honest, straightforward, frank, outspoken individual. At the same time she was sympathetic and forgiving to those who repented of their errors, always ready to forgive, encourage them and aid them to rise again.
Born in the early days of struggle and privation in Utah and learning early the right values in life, Mrs. Nibley was an outstanding example of the resourceful Western pioneer woman?a constructive contributor to her family, her neighbor, and her community. One would go far to find a more energetic worker, a more frugal and thrifty housewife, a more helpful neighbor, or a wiser community builder. Even in her later years of prosperity she was never idle, never wasteful: and, while she was generous to a fault, she conserved and practiced economies which many in her situation would have scorned. It was her delight to save, conserve, create, and to help others to do the same.
A real philanthropist was Sister Nibley. Her own early struggle and handicaps made her sympathetic and tender toward those who were lacking in opportunity, under-privileged, or unfortunate. Generous to all in need, she was eager to help better the conditions of anyone in distress. Her good, practical advice she backed up with substantial assistance. She was a liberal contributor to her Church and to her beloved Relief Society and was known as a benefactress to hundreds of missionaries and others.
REBECCA NEIBAUR NIBLEY 475
Mrs. Nibley was born March 30, 1851, in Salt Lake City, Utah, three years after her parents reached Utah, and four years after the arrival of the Pioneers in 1847. Her parents were Alexander Neibaur and Ellen Breakel. Brother Neibaur was the first Jewish convert to the Church and was a close personal friend of the Prophet Joseph Smith. They had accepted the Gospel in Preston, England, in 1837, and immigrated to Nauvoo, leaving the latter place at the time of the general exodus of the Saints. The family underwent all the privations and hardships incident to the travels of the Saints and to early pioneer life in Utah.
On March 30, 1869, Rebecca Neibaur was married to Charles W. Nibley in the old Endowment House in Salt Lake City. She was just 18, a beautiful, wholesome, vivacious, quick-witted girl, while her husband was a handsome young Scotchman, who had already shown an interest in the business affairs of the northern part of the state and who was later to play an important part in the economic and financial development of the West. For a few years the young couple lived in Brigham City, later moving to Logan. In 1893 the family moved to Baker City, Oregon, where they remained ten years, returning to Utah in 1903 and establishing a home in Salt Lake City. Ten children were born to Brother and Sister Nibley?four girls and six boys, seven of whom survive her.
Wherever Mrs. Nibley lived she was active in Church work, holding positions in the various auxiliary organizations. She was especially devoted to the Relief Society, joining the organization at the age of sixteen. During the 61 years of her membership she served as visiting teacher, ward counselor, ward president, and General Board member. In 1909 she was called to the General Board of Relief Society in which she labored faithfully until honorably released in 1921, traveling extensively throughout the Church in the interest of the organization. She was a valuable and valued member, her business ability and good judgment being a great asset to the Board. She served in many capacities?as chairman of the Relief Society Home for Women and Girls, as a member of the Magazine Finance Committee, and a member of the Hospital Committee which supervised the purchase of all the linens for the new L. D. S. Hospital, which were contributed by the Board. She was also a member of the Friendship Circle, a group of close friends, who were most appreciative of her interesting personality and many fine qualities.
Mrs. Nibley traveled extensively both in this country and in Europe and was a keen and intelligent observer of all she encountered. She was fond of reading, was a lively conversationalist, a keen humorist, and withal a most interesting and stimulating companion and associate.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto?Charity Never Faileth

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine 
VOL. XV - SEPTEMBER, 1928 - No. 9
EDITORIAL