Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman SOCIAL SERVICE ITEMS Educational Work. Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, a member of the General Board of Relief Society, and director of Adult Education at the Civic Center in Salt Lake City, attended Summer School at the University of California. Mrs. Lund took up two courses of study, both of which will be most helpful to her in her future work. One course was the history and development of Adult Education in Europe and America, given by Dr. Overstreet, who is considered the best authority on this subject; the other was a course in Child Welfare, a group discussion course conducted by Dr. Stoltz, head of Child Welfare work in the state of California. Social Hygiene at the University of Utah. A course in Social Hygiene was given at the University of Utah Summer School by Dr. Edith Hale Swift, under direction of Educational Measures of the American Social Hygiene Association. Many down-town people availed themselves of this excellent opportunity of getting expert instructions on this important subject. The General Board was represented in this course by Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Julia A. Child, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith, and Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine. The class met daily from 8 to 9 o'clock during the Summer session. Public Health Nursing. Because of the increasing demand for public health nurses, interest in this profession is growing. Many of the school districts are placing public health nurses in the schools, and a number of counties are making plans to install county nurses. Only hospital graduate nurses are eligible for public health nurse training, and the time required for the course is from 8 to 10 months in universities offering this work. The General Board of Relief Society has recently received six applications for loans from the Clarissa S. Williams Public Health Nurse Loan Fund. The young women applying are graduate nurses who are planning to enter training, either at the University of California or the University of Washington. Within the last year and a half the Relief Society was instrumental in the training of two public health nurses, Miss Irene Harris and Miss Florence West of Ogden, both of whom secured positions immediately after being graduated?Miss West in Box Elder County and Miss Harris in. Sanpete County. By action of the Utah Tuberculosis Association, Miss West was recently appointed director of the Christ- 
 mas Seal Health Camp in Big Cottonwood Canyon from July 9 to September 1, and on September 1 she will take up work for the year with the Nebo school district. Miss Harris has been engaged for next year by the Provo City Schools. Children's Vacations. Through the generosity of the General Board, of some local business men in Salt Lake City, and of a number of Relief Society stake boards, a number of malnourished and under-privileged children of Salt Lake City, will be given the opportunity of spending a few weeks in the country. Plans for the work are being supervised by the Family Welfare Department of the General Board. In addition to this excellent project, the Welfare Department is fortunate in having the further opportunity of sending ten children to the Child's camp conducted by the Utah Tuberculosis Association in Big Cottonwood Canyon from July 9 to September 1. The children selected for this camp will be those most in need of the care which the camp offers. Social Service Institutes. At the request of the Relief Society officers of these stakes, three social service institutes have recently been held in outlying stakes?Maricopa, St. Joseph, and Idaho Falls. The institutes in each covered a period of one week, and were conducted by social workers from the staff of the Relief Society Family Welfare Department at the headquarters office. Miss Genevieve Thornton, case supervisor of the department, conducted the institute at Maricopa; Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, assistant supervisor, conducted that at St. Joseph; and Mrs. Amy W. Evans of the welfare staff, and member of the General Board, was in charge at Idaho Falls. In asking for social service institutes the purpose of these stake Relief Societies is their desire to improve in every possible way their social work with families needing this service. The aim is also to secure as much uniformity in these matters as possible throughout the stakes. To insure this result, it was felt that a general understanding of the basic principles of social work is necessary, together with a knowledge of the most constructive procedure in the treatment of families under care. The ultimate aim is always to bring the family back, as soon as possible, to a normal way of living, and to avoid purely palliative relief, which weakens rather than strengthens a person or a family. The reading assigned and the lessons outlined were designed to meet these aims. In order to get all the service needed for a family, an understanding of, and cooperation with, the other helpful agencies and organizations of the community was provided for; and a study was made of the community, county, and state agencies for health, relief, and other service. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 497 The general plan of the institutes was as follows: No meetings were held in the morning. This time was left free for private consultation with the field worker on any matter or problem upon which any president felt she would like special advice. In one stake the regular meetings were held both afternoons and evenings, while in another a longer session was held in the afternoon. In addition to Relief Society president, social service aids, stake presidents, and board members, Bishops were invited; and all showed a good spirit of cooperation with the presidents, though their attendance was more casual. The women were asked to do some preparation work in the way of reading. The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble, by Karl de Schweinitz, Executive Secretary of the Philadelphia Charities, was used as a text. This book sets out, in a very readable way, the major principles of social work, with interesting illustrations and cases in point. A number of these books were forwarded to the stake about two weeks prior to the date of the institute, and the women were asked to read the book and to be prepared to discuss the principles laid down and the instances cited. The preparation was good, and the women showed much interest in this required reading. In addition to assigned readings, each person in the class was given a mimeographed "outline covering the main points of the lessons given by the social worker conducting the class. These outlines were kept by the women for future reference. On all phases of the work the discussion in the classes was lively, and the efforts and ability of the women taking part were very gratifying to the class leaders. The Maricopa institute was held at Mesa, Arizona. In the sessions devoted to a study of community, county, and stake resources, persons representing the Juvenile Court, the County, Child Welfare Board, the State Rehabilitation work and the compulsory attendance work of the schools were invited into the meetings, to discuss proper use of these agencies by the communities of the stake. The proper utilization by the various communities, of free medical sources, was also gone into after consultation by the worker in charge with the county physician, the Phoenix Free Clinic, and some cooperative private physicians. The matter of division between wards and the Phoenix Family Service Society of responsibility for families applying to the Phoenix wards for assistance, was taken up after consultation with the executive secretary of that Society. It was found that cooperation of the Phoenix wards was desirable here in order to avoid having families under the supervision of both the ward and the Family Service Society at the same time. Closer cooperation was welcomed by both the Relief Society women and the Family Service Society of that city. In Mesa good cooperation exists between the Church and the " 
 Community Fund. The amount of money available from this source is not large, but the ward Relief Societies, by holding a bazaar, cooperate in securing it. The fund is in charge of a volunteer, Mr. Charles Flynn, who has served in this capacity for seven years, and who cooperates freely with ward presidents and Bishops of Mesa in the matter of recommending assistance from this fund when it is felt that this is needed for a family. Mrs. Emma Rollins, stake social worker, gives Mr. Flynn a good deal of assistance in investigating cases coming to the attention of the fund. In St. Joseph stake, where wards are separated from the stake house by many miles, a. Three-hour session was held every afternoon for six days. Interest in lesson work was sustained throughout all the sessions and outside reading was reported daily. The State Child Welfare Board was represented at most of the meetings., Several Bishops and one member of the High Council attended. On the Sunday following the institute, the social worker, through the courtesy of President Payne, was privileged to address various departments of the Union meeting. In the department of Stake Presidency and Bishopric, the general plan of the work and need of close cooperation were stressed. In Idaho Falls stake, all the social agencies in the community were invited to participate in the institute. There were in attendance, beside Relief Society ward presidencies, social service aids and stake board members, ward bishops and counselors, high councilmen, stake Priesthood presidency, representatives of the local Child Welfare League, secretary of the Red Cross, public health nurse, county physician, county commissioner, Judge of the Juvenile Court, probation officer, and superintendent of the L. D. S. Hospital. Aside from the regular course, many community problems were discussed, and by all, a better understanding obtained of the work of each agency. In all three stakes, time was taken at the last session held for discussion of cooperation between Bishops and ward Relief Society presidents. Appreciation for the good support they feel they have from each other was expressed by both Relief Society presidents and the Bishops present. A few presidents expressed the feeling that they need a more definite time for regular consultation with their Bishops, while others reported a regular conference period with them. Mrs. Mamie Clark, president of Maricopa stake Relief Society, Mrs. Ethel D. Payne, president at St. Joseph stake, and Mrs. Clara Brunt, president at Idaho Falls, deserve much credit, as do all those who took part in contributing to the effectiveness in these institutes. Two of the Salt Lake stakes, Liberty and Grant, have recently been active in studying social work. During the past season, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 499 official workers from each of these stakes have met weekly at the headquarters of the Relief Society for ten weeks, covering a good, deal of work in the principles of social service and in the treatment of families needing care. The use of community resources was gone into in detail, this problem being always more complicated in the larger cities. The women showed decided interest and eagerness to do their work in the most helpful way. In these Salt Lake City stakes, instruction in social service work and the discussion of the problems has a double value: (1) The Family Welfare Department assists all stakes of the city in doing active case-work with the families needing attention and thus comes into close touch with the ward presidents, social service aids and the Bishops. (2) This co-operation results also in the acquisition of knowledge necessary to care for families constructively and in the bringing about of a better acquaintance and a greater personal appreciation of efforts of ward workers and the Family Welfare Department workers. These two stakes met separately to study principles of social work and the best methods of caring, for families in need. In each case the Relief Society stake presidency, the ward presidents, and the ward social service aids took active part. At the end of the tenth week these groups decided to continue meeting once a month as a case conference to discuss difficult problems of timely interest. These meetings have continued through the spring, and are just now adjourning for the summer. Both the stake women and the general office feel that these meetings have been very beneficial to all and that they are of definite value in securing greater uniformity of work and in bringing about a better understanding of the work generally. The two stake Relief Society presidents, Mrs. Winifred B. Daynes of 'Grant stake, and Mrs. Hazel Greenwood of Liberty stake, attended the sessions and took active part in the discussions. At the close of the Liberty stake classes a joint meeting with the stake presidents, Bishops, and Relief Society workers of the stake, was held at the home of Mrs. Hazel Greenwood, Relief Society president. In this meeting, cooperation between Bishops and Relief Society presidents and between the wards and the Family Welfare Department of the general office was discussed, the purpose being to secure as close a working relationship as possible between these groups. In general a very good spirit of helpfulness and willingness to be of mutual service to each other was shown. The need of close cooperation in all parts of social service work was clearly indicated. The diligent efforts of stake presidents and their assistants in helping to carry out arrangements for these classes and institutes has been very much appreciated by the General Board and by the. Welfare Department staff. Guide Lessons for November LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in November) "PEARL OF GREAT PRICE" "Again the Kingdom of Heaven is like unto a merchant man seeking goodly pearls, who when he had found one pearl of great price sold all that he had and bought it." Matthew 13:45-46. Evidently the purpose of this parable was to awaken interest in the value of seeking the Kingdom of Heaven, and the purpose of this lesson is to awaken interest in a Book which clearly points the way to the Kingdom of Heaven. "The Name and Place as Scripture." By reference to the title page of the volume it will be seen that it is "A Selection from the Revelations, Translations, and Narratives of Joseph Smith, first Prophet, Seer, and Revelator to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." This Seer was a "Choice Seer,' and this book contains choice selections from his inspired productions. As an illuminator of truth it is a pearl; as concentrated knowledge, it is of great value. It can be read aloud clearly, in less time than it takes to attend a theatre; and yet there are paragraphs that may hold the attention for hours. It deals with the revelations of God to man, from the answering of a simple question as to which church was right, up to an explanation of the universe. The "Pearl of Great Price" is one of the four standard works of the Church, and this position recommends it as a field of profitable study and a safe source of reference. The Contents. The Book contains the visions of Moses under the title of "The Book of Moses;" "The Book of Abraham;" and "Writings of Joseph Smith." The consistent division of the contents into chapters and verses and the extensive marginal references make the Book in its present form an up-to-date student's text, lacking only a concordance to bring its study on a level of convenience equal to that of its three companion volumes of Scripture. GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 
 General View. This part of the "Pearl of Great Price" is a revelation to Joseph the Seer of what the Lord showed to Moses concerning the creation and the history of man down to the flood. In many respects the revelation is a reproduction of the events as recorded in the Bible; but new light is thrown on, and we get the story with more simplicity and directness. In fact it may be said that many new and precious truths have been restored in this latter-day presentation of the Visions of Moses. Some Doctrines and Principles Illuminated. 1. The Personality of Man's Spirit. In his visions Moses saw God with his Spiritual eyes, that is, with the eyes of his spirit; he heard the voice of the Lord with the spiritual ears, and conversed with the Deity with a spiritual tongue. The communication between Moses and the Lord was, so far as the man was concerned, a spiritual communion. It was a case in which the Spirit of a mortal was called into the presence of God with His glory not all veiled, and there in the spirit was shown and told things to be remembered and revealed by the mortal man: a circumstance in proof of the possibility of a mortal remembrance of what is learned through the spirit only. 2. The Personality of the Evil One. No one can consistently believe in the Visions of Moses and deny the personality of Satan. From a human testimony point of view, the evidence of Satan's individuality out-weighs the testimony concerning the: Personality of God. Moses viewed Satan with his natural or physical eyes, and God with his spiritual eyes. The contest between Lucifer and Moses points to four facts: First. That the Devil is a person. Second. That the Evil One can be seen by the natural eye. Third. That man can resist the Evil One. Fourth. That the Evil (One can be banished by man in the name of Jesus Christ. The Attitude of Moses is a Key to Conquest in the Field of Temptation. He felt and knew that he was a son of God and therefore standing upon the apex of self-respect; he then weighed the tempter with a demand for light. "Where is thy Glory? Is a good question to have in readiness for the tempter. 3. The Fatherhood of God. The Lord made plain his parental relationship to man by saying 
 to Moses: "Thou art my son," and frequently addressing him as "Moses, My Son." Moses was born a son of God in the premortal state; but as a man he became a son of God through baptism. 6:66-68. The tenderness of God as a parent was shown by something stronger than words when the Almighty wept at the contemplation of what the wayward of his family would suffer. Wrong-doing has a double terror when seen as something that hurts not only man but his Maker also. 7:28-31. 4. Obedience the First Law of Heaven. The first commandments after the fall required, not blind obedience, but the obedience of confidence. The upward climb of the race began with the obedience of confidence, the obedience of faith. It leads heavenward. 5:5-7, Entrance into the Kingdom of Heaven is impossible without the child attitude, the willing attitude, the trusting attitude, and the attitude of perfect confidence. "Except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the Kingdom of Heaven." Matt. 18:3. So spake the Savior of mankind, and then he added: ''Whosoever, therefore, shall humble himself as this little child is greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven." He knew that the foundation of greatness is humility, the only safeguard against humiliation. He was and is the way and the life. How often he taught the lesson of the obedience of confidence by declaring that his will was subordinated to the will of his Father. 5. The Earth Affected by the Conduct of Those Who Live On It. The Earth is heard to mourn: "Woe, woe is me, the mother of men. I am pained. I am weary because of the wickedness of my children. When shall I rest and be cleaned from the filthiness which is gone out of me? When will my Creator sanctify me that I may rest, and righteousness for a season abide upon my face?" 7 48. We know that a part of the earth may be affected by our conduct all the time. No one can say that his hand steals or that his tongue lies. The body is a tabernacle in which we live, it is an instrument which we use. Why is the cheek flushed with hope and paled by fear? There is more than sentiment in dedicating a home and in praying for the earth to yield. It is not inconsistent to believe that the things which respond to the mind may have some of the universal mind in them. "The wind and wave obey His will' may be as philosophical as it is poetic.