What is prayer? It is not mere lip service?a drawing near to the Lord with the mouth, while the heart is far from Him. There are two ways of offering prayer?orally, or with the voice, and secretly, or in thought, without speech. Both methods are used in addressing petitions to Deity. But neither of them is acceptable, nor of any virtue whatever, unless accompanied by "the soul's sincere desire."
John Stevens McGroarty, the genial, philosophical, broadminded editor of "The Synagogue"?a Sunday supplement of the Los Angeles Times?says, in a recent issue of that paper, something about fasting and prayer that is well worth reading. Along with it, he pays a high compliment to the "Mormon" people. Thus:
"Under the rafters of our far-flung Synagogue, as everybody knows, sit all sorts of conditions of men. People of all nations and of all creeds. The rafters of the Synagogue stretch over all the continents, the Seven Seas and all the oceans.
"Wherefore, it is no news to state that among those who sit in the Synagogue are many people who from their religious creed are known as Mormons. All the Mormons who sit in the Synagogue are also members of the Congregation of the Faithful, because they say their prayers every night and every morning. Every Mormon does that.
"And we are very happy to feel that we have many friends


among the Mormons. We have often made it known that we have a great admiration and even an affection for them. There is so much about them that is admirable, so much that is exemplary.
"Just lately, however, we found out something about them that we had not known before. And it is something worth broadcasting in the Synagogue this blessed Sabbath morning. The thing we found out about the Mormons?and which we had not known before, is that on the first Sunday of each month of the year they fast from food. Good, pious Mormons deny themselves in this way once a month.
"Now, there are many other denominations of the Christian religion that observe fasts as well as feasts. We could name Christians of many varying creeds who deny themselves food on certain days of the year. Which is a good thing for their souls as well as for their bodies. But the Mormons put their fasts to practical uses. What they do when the day of fasting is over is to conscientiously estimate what the food on the fast day, had they eaten it, would have cost. And each Mormon then sends the amount of this estimate to his Church organization. And the Church organization uses the money it thus receives for the support of its poor.
"The result of all this is that the Mormons have no poor houses. Nor does it seem that they have any jails.
"This is what we would call practical religion. It is not religion that is the mere breath of one's nostrils. It is self-denial for the sake of others. It is going hungry that another may be fed. Wanting, that someone else may not be in need."
Then comes this hit at religious bigotry:
"It may be that someone sitting in the Synagogue this blessed Sabbath morning will say that this good report of the Mormon people should not be spoken. Unfortunately, there are many who profess to be Christians, yet who are really not Christians at all. And it is they who will say that it is only their own religion?the creed to which they belong?that should be praised and emulated.
"It was once well said by some wise man, that Christianity should not be condemned, for the reason that it has never been tried.
"And there is a lot in that saying. It really does not seem that the teachings of the Wanderer of Galilee have yet come to full flower.
"The way that we, ourself, feel about it is, that a good deed should be praised and held up for emulation, no matter by whom the deed is done. Even though it be a pagan, a heathen or a heretic who does a good deed, then shall he be praised in the Synagogue. And he shall have a high seat therein."
WHAT IS PRAYER? 469
In another luminous flash from his gifted pen, Mr. McGroarty thus presents his concept of prayer:
"Charles V, who was sometime King of Spain, and at the same time king of a lot of other countries that had been willed to him by his aunts and uncles, once said that Spanish is the language with which to speak with God.
"El idioma para hablar con Dios." He spoke truly enough no doubt. And what he said may still be true, although the scholars tell us that Spanish has changed a good deal, as all other languages have done, since the time of Charles V. It is said that it is a pretty far cry from the castellano of Cervantes, Quevedo and Lope de Vega to the Spanish of Pio Baroja, Pareda and other modern writers.
"Mexico particularly has put a lot of strange stuff in the mother tongue. The Peruvians have gingered it up with the 'quichua' of the Incas. In the Argentine even American slang has its wedge in. And so it goes.
"But, getting back to what the great king said, we may add that God may be spoken with without the use of language altogether.
"It is with our thoughts and not with words that we speak with God. Words are merely the voices of thoughts. And a thought can be a thought and yet be voiceless.
"To speak with God is not a matter of language. It is a thing for the soul to do. And He is always listening."
Mark you, our big-hearted friend, the Rabbi of the "Synagogue," does not say that words should not be used in "speaking with God." That they are "merely the voices of thoughts," is manifestly true. But there are times when thought needs a voice, and so the Lord has commanded his people to "pray vocally and in secret." To speak with God, therefore, is, as we view it, a matter of language, as well as of thought.
Joseph Smith, the first "Mormon" of the nineteenth century, but not of all time?for "Mormonism's" far-flung "Synagogue" stretches its rafters over the prayerful and honest in all ages?when he beheld in vision the Father and the Son, he spoke with them orally at first, and after the power of evil had paralyzed his tongue, went on praying in secret; and it was his secret prayer that shook the heavens, turned the key in the lock, and opened upon the world the glories of a new Gospel dispensation. Satan could and did tie the boy's tongue, depriving him temporarily of the power of speech; but could not fetter his free thought, could not prevent him from sincerely desiring the wisdom of which he stood in need and for which he had sought the Lord in the Sacred Grove that memorable spring morning. Thus the supreme value of secret prayer is strikingly evidenced in Joseph Smith's first and greatest spiritual manifestation.
Let us not, however, underrate oral prayer. When we kneel


in the family circle, or lower our heads and hearts in public worship, the one who voices the prayer is the mouthpiece of all present. That being the case, it is highly necessary that all should hear him and know what he is praying for, so that there can be an intelligent "Amen" from the congregation. But no public prayer can take the place of the silent petition with which, in the solitude of the bed-chamber or other retired spot, we pour out the desires of our hearts to our all-seeing, all-knowing Heavenly Father. Even upon the street, in the office, or in the school room, we ought to have a prayer in our hearts for protection against accident, for the success of any business venture in which we may be interested, or for the mastery of some difficult problem that is taxing our patience and strength. God hears such prayers, as well as those that are uttered openly?if the one who prays does so with full purpose of heart. "And He is always listening."
Prayer is a means of uplift. Every prayerful thought, word or deed is a step toward heaven. Our Lord and Savior was not thinking of his own honor and glory when he commanded his disciples to pray unceasingly and always in his name. He had in mind their welfare?mentally, morally, spiritually, and in every way. Prayer is an expression of faith, and it is by faith?which impels to obedience?that we obtain all our blessings. Eternal justice, without which God would cease to be God, demands a return for what Providence bestows. We must do something to merit what is done for us. The balance is thus preserved, the equilibrium of right maintained. We cannot get something for nothing. We pay for our blessings, in part, by asking for them. But if we do not ask, and still receive, we owe for them. Then why not pray, thus discharging in advance and as far as possible, the obligation?
In closing let me record an incident of my own experience that powerfully impressed upon me the meaning and purpose of prayer. It happened forty-eight years ago, in far-off Liverpool, where I was then laboring as assistant editor of the Millennial Star, the organ of the European Mission. In an overworked, run-down condition, I was endeavoring to produce an editorial article which would be read, upon completion, to the editor in chief?the Mission President?and if he approved it, given to the printer. But I could make no headway, and wore out the whole day in a vain struggle to write something worth reading. Finally I threw down my pen in disgust and burst into tears of vexation. At that moment the Good Spirit whispered: "Why don't you pray?" I turned almost impatiently in the direction from which the
WHAT IS PRAYER? 471
whisper had seemed to come, and said: "I do pray." I was then praying five times a day?first, a secret morning prayer upon arising; second, a prayer at breakfast time with the rest of the household; third, in secret at noon-day; fourth, again with the family at supper time; and finally at my bedside before retiring. "Pray now," said the Spirit, "and ask for what you want." I saw the point at once. It was a special not a general prayer that was needed. I knelt and sobbed out a few simple words. I did not pray for the return of the Ten Tribes, nor for the building of the New Jerusalem. I said, "Father, in the name of Jesus Christ help me to write this article." That was all, and it was enough. I arose from my knees, seated myself, and began to write. My mind was now as clear as crystal, and my pen fairly flew over the paper. Everything I wanted came as fast as I could set it down, and every thought and word was in proper place. In a remarkably short time the article was completed to my entire satisfaction. I read it to the chief; he approved it without the change of a syllable; and it was published.
This taught me a lesson, or rather, it reminded me of one that I had temporarily forgotten and needed to have emphasized. Prayer is not a matter of mere words?not a string of hackneyed, stereotyped phrases. "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire." And it was of such a prayer and no other, that the Lord said: "Ask, and ye shall receive."
None can pray well but he that lives well. Pray and work. Pray devoutly and hammer stoutly. Pray without ceasing. Prayer knocks 'til the door opens. Prayer of faith shall save the sick. He prayeth well who loveth well. What an asylum has a soul in prayer.