[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | Unknown | Issue: 8 | Title: AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON. | Author: Unknown]

AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.

I saw a model that had been wrought
For a rich man’s castle and grounds,  
A dream of beauty that lacked no thought
You could offer, within their bounds;
For grandeur, beauty and grace were there,
(All to be brought and fashioned, where
The water ran and the grass grew green,
And the ancient trees o’erspread the scene;)
And I thought, as I looked upon site and plan:
“A beautiful form must shrine the man,
Poet and artist, be in his face—
To so transfigure this lonely place.” 

But his form was bent and his face was thin,
And the eyes looked down not up; 
The gifts of his soul all hid within,
Like gems in a covered cup;
Then I thought: “How little we read aright
The faces that pass before our sight;
For there goes a king without his crown,
Ruling, but not by threat or frown;
E’en monarch must search for the Master mind,
The fitting parts of the whole to find,
And the wilderness and the wealth must wait
For the soul to shape and make them great.

So fairy like, only fingers fine
Might touch nor tear such filmy lace; 
I thought: “What dainty maid did twine
These threads with such ethereal grace?
Like the apple bloom, her cheeks fair dye,
Like the sweet ‘forget me not’ her eye,
Like silken floss, her loose bound hair
And her spirit, light as the springtime air?”
For, only by beauty and youth, it seemed,
Were such bewildering marvels dreamed;
Only a young life, bright and new—
Ever such rare ideals drew.

But, like magician in strange disguise,
Bending, the old lace maker stood;
Faded and weak were her faithful eyes,
Gone, all the beauty of maidenhood.
“When—I began to learn this work first?
I remember no more, than when I nursed.
Out of the frost, ere the morning sun,
Some of the patterns I have won.
In dampened room, where threads may not fray,
And on my work one narrow ray,
I’ve toiled life long. We folks need not much—
The fine, gay world for the rich, not such
As we; but, I oft times think we know
Our labors beauty better than they
Who wear it proudly, flaunting so,
Then drop it, as flowers faded away,
While fashion changes another way.”
Then I thought; “Which is the higher one?
The souls that catch, as life’s changes run,
Ideals that in the dim silence fall—
Bringing to touch and sight through all
Poverty’s patience and sacrifice,
Beauties that charm even royal eyes;
Or Fortune’s fair ones that only know
These things after toil hath wrought them so?”
Secure in wealth, ye wear at rest—
Another’s jewels on your breast.

Splendor and beauty that gold hath bought—
Hath it wrought in your souls its spell?
Or do ye wear it with but the thought
That it becometh your beauty well?

[Column 2]
These are only graced without,
Adornings that time and change wear out,
While deep in the toiler’s spirits grow
Visions of beauty in endless flow—
And though they pass from the workers’ hands,
Artists and toilers unknown to fame—
They are the owners—their’s the claim
What is truly ours; if we but begin
To count our treasures? Just what’s within. 

There was a babe most fair and sweet,
(All mothers living think just the same:)
’Twas mine, and my happiness complete,
No cloud o’er my silent dreamings came;
But what I wondered oft: “What will unfold
In this speechless mystery I hold
In my arms, when future years shall bring
God’s purposes to their blossoming?”
O, gently live, that no discord jar
Harmony of his soul, to mar
The perfect plan that thou knowest not—
By him once known but now forgot.

As the years grew on I watched for a sign,
Oft, now and then, I caught, (and smiled)
Some clew to the purposes Divine—
Some blest assurance for the child
Then fears—for who else ever heard
The “still voice” that my spirit stirred,
And how can a mother “hush” the sound
Of a world of strife that gathers ’round 
In closer circles about her own,
And stem back all that were best unknown? 
Smiling the while, as by love, to win,
Which way his spirit leaned within.

By many types, full well I know 
That every creature he hath framed
In our mortality, high or low,
Holdeth such jewel He hath named,
Within its being. “Hide not thy light,”
Is His command. Yet gloom and blight
Thwart the uprising of the soul;
Oppression and poverty control
The spirit that else might show forth
Its hidden treasures, name and worth;
Earth’s fault, not God’s, for He lets fall
Justice and love unto us all.
They, who withhold a creature’s right
Then boast of higher power and mind; 
Will such be guiltless in his sight
Who in His image made mankind?
That time is passing; through His grace
Smiles shall light up the abject face,
And humble lives in low estate,
Through faithfulness shall be made great.
O, Soul, if thou hast found and known
The gift He gavest for thine own,
Use it, and take back free from sin, 
The gem He placed, thy life within.


