[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 38 | General Feature | Testimony Meeting | Anna Kivekas]
em. In our sacred temples the blessings of heaven are bestowed upon the truly faithful and from that holy place they may be carried into our individual homes for the building of stronger family life and more tender, more sacred relationships between husband and wife. The blessings of the priestly ordinances of the temple are the same for men and women alike. There is no difference. In our marriage, when the sealing blessings are conferred, they are given to the man and the woman equally. January 1970 The covenants of obedience administered through the gospel again are the same for both men and women. There is no difference. We do not have two standards in the Church. And the promised blessings are likewise the same. When the Lord tells the obedient that he will open the windows of heaven and pour out such blessings that they can hardly be contained does he segregate these blessings and send some to men and others to women? God is no respecter of persons. So when a young couple, for example, begin their married life in the temple of God, they jointly and together enter into the same covenants under the priesthood and receive the same promises of divine beneficence. When they take this priesthood with them into their newly made homes, what does it mean? It actually means bringing God's power there his covenant to bless that home and_ his power to protect and build and sanctify it his healing influence in times of illness his inspiration in teaching little ones his sanctifying influence which can make each home a temple a place of refuge a tabernacle of peace. When a home such as this is established, it is more than a residence where a family may eat and sleep and park the car. It is the beginning of an eternal relationship in which a family is bound together forever. Stop for a moment and contemplate this: Husbands and wives are sealed for eternity and by what? The holy priesthood. 8 Children are sealed to their parents through life, death, and the resurrection. And by what power? The priesthood. When little ones become ill by what power are they blessed and healed within the walls of their own home? It is the power of the priesthood. And if death invades the family circle, by what eternal power are loved ones held to that family circle until the time of a joyful reunion in the hereafter? It is the power of the priesthood. Every phase of family life is touched by the power of the priesthood if we live the gospel. The rules of family living in such homes are in harmony with the priestly standards God has given us by his divinely authorized servants. Homes thus become' sanctuaries of divine where family prayers are held under the influence of the priesthood; where games are played and songs are sung in a wholesome atmosphere fostered by the priesthood. Every child, like a tender plant, may be guided and influenced and taught the ways of righteousness under the influence of the priesthood. The strength of purity and the debilitating effect of sin, may be contrasted under the light of the priesthood. The Word of Wisdom is loved; chastity is made the moral watchword; honesty is an undeviating standard all under the influence of the priesthood. Spirituality comes into its own in such a family circle. There can be no true joy without God.

[Testimony Meeting Anna Kivekas]

A testimony of his great reality can come to everyone in a home instruction such as this because God is a part of that home. His influence is there. His joy, his peace, his deep satisfactions, his prosperity, his protection, his radiated intelligence serving as a light to our minds, all are there. And as little ones grow up and receive the blessings of the priesthood themselves, we see a continued extension of God's holy power, generation after generation, until in very deed we become an holy nation, a peculiar people showing forth the praises of him who has called us out of darkness into his marvelous light. Should we not then strive to bring the power of the priesthood into every home and honor that priesthood throughout our lives? The priesthood is defined as the power of God transmitted to mankind. Should we not make that power and its divine influence a part of every home? Should not husbands honor and magnify that priesthood? Should not sons seek to obtain it by proper ordination and also honor and magnify it? And should not each mother, wife, and daughter likewise honor this divine power conferred on husband, son, father or brother? And why should wife or mother or daughter thus honor that priesthood? Because the priesthood in the home, properly regarded, has a sanctifying influence, and every wife, mother, and daughter will be blessed through the spirit of peace which it provides.