Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary Relief Soctety Maricopa Stake During the month of December, 1921, the Relief Society president of the Chandler ward and four of her officers (both counselors, organist and chorister) were visited by the stork. We are pleased to print a picture of these happy mothers, together with 'their new babies. In an effort to increase the attendance in Maricopa stake, a contest was conducted during the last three months of 1921, The CHANDLER WARD OFFICERS AND TEACHERS wards attaining the best average attendance were entertained by the losing wards. In one division the Second ward women were the winners and a royal party was tendered them by the First ward women who were the losers. In another division the Third ward women won a delicious six course chicken dinner from the defeated Fourth ward Relief Society. On February 4, Sister A. MacDonald, an active Relief Society worker, died as a result of an accident. She was born May 12, 1841, in Scotland, and with her father and mother joined the Church and emigrated to Utah in 1862, undergoing all of the  hardships incident to those early times. She, with her husband, Alexander F. MacDonald, settled in St. George, where they assisted in the building of the temple. She later moved to Arizona where she has held many positions of trust in the Relief Society, being first counselor when the organization was first effected in Mesa. At a recent conference held in Maricopa stake, the feature of the conference was a comprehensive and detailed report of the General Relief Society conference, by President Mamie Clark. An innovation was an Indian song by one of the old Papago Indian women, representing the Papago ward. During the noon recess a May festival was held and Mrs. Clark was crowned the Queen of the May. One hundred 'fifty were present at the morning session and one hundred nineteen at the afternbon meeting. Liberty Stake A testimonial was given in November, in honor of former president Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, and her counselors, Mrs. Ellen H. Woolley and Mrs. Annie Vetterli. There were in attendance representatives of the General Board, members of other Salt Lake City stakes, and several brethren. Appropriate speeches were given and books of sentiments were presented to the retiring presidency. The new presidency are, Mrs. Myrtle Ballard Shurtliff, president; Mrs. Leona Holbrook and Mrs. Annie M. Sheets, counselors. Mrs. Mary A. Hyde White and Lucretia M. Cooley, former secretary and treasurer respectively, were retained. An interesting report of what is known as the "Home Bound" work was made by Liberty stake for the year 1921. By "Home Bound" work they mean visiting or holding meetings at the homes of the aged or indisposed. Some of these visits are made to the Salt Lake County Infirmary. They report 988 hours spent in this special activity. Among other things they distributed' flow-- ers amounting to $22.10; oranges, $2.50; apples, $1.50; one hundred thirty-five glasses of jelly, fifty dozen cookies, and sixteen pounds of candy. St. Joseph Stake On January 7, the St. Joseph stake Relief Society Board was reorganized. Mrs. Josephine C. Kimball and her associates were honorably released and the following officers sustained: President, Mrs. Ethel D. Payne, counselors, Mrs. Mary Jacobson and  Mrs. Nettie K. Phillips; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Ellis C. Hoopes; musical director, Mrs. Lola M. Shumway. The General Board appreciates very much the splendid work and able leadership of Mrs. Josephine C. Kimball, who has been tireless in her efforts to raise the standards of Relief Society work in her particular field. Mrs. Kimball was one of the first stake presidents to organize and carry forward a systematic arrangement for ward conferences, which has been most successful and helpful. She has instituted other types of activity equally as helpful.. < South Davis Stake On March 26, 1922, at the regular quarterly conference of the South Davis stake, the Relief Society 'was reorganized. President Elizabeth G. Ford, with her faithful office: s and entire board were honorably released: A Relief Society session was held in the evening which was devoted to a r?view of the splendid work done by Mrs. Ford and her co-workers, with tributes of love and respect for their splendid service. For many years Mrs. Ford has worked devotedly for the Relief Society and the records of the organization chronicle the name of no worker more faithful and zealous. Her labors have been appreciated not only by the General Board but by all Relief Society workers in the South Davis stake. The new officers selected for the South Davis stake are: Mrs. Emma P. Walton, president; Mrs. Clara S. Rose and Mrs. Effie P. Eldredge, counselors; Mrs. Evelyn E. Rich, secretary. Melbourne, Victorian Conference Sister Edith Willsea, who is a convert to the Church and who, until recently, has served as president of the Mission Relief Society of the Melbourne, Victorian conference, has just arrived in Salt Lake City. She paid a visit to the Relief Society offices which was much appreciated. While the Relief Society is laboring under difficulties in this Australian conference, she reports that the work is progressing favorably. They are few in numbers and scattered over a great territory. In the past, meetings have been held only once a month, but they are now being held every Tuesday evening at eight o'clock, at the Mission House. Among' other things these sisters are working hard to obtain funds to pay for a chapel which the mission is planning to build in the near future. One night the Relief Society held "Novelty Night," and on another occasion they held a festivity  RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS OF MELBOURNE, VICTORIAN CONFERENCE known as "Balloon Night." From each of these affairs about ?12 were realized. These sisters donated sixpence or more a week to the Relief Society to buy material to make into salable articles and these were sold at bazaars. The first Relief Society meeting that was held in this conference was at the home of one of the faithful sisters when there were only four women present. Sister Willsea told of the beautiful spirit and influence which they all felt on this occasion, and she is now greatly gratified that the Relief Society has grown to an important and useful organization there. Wayne Stake The stake board under the special direction of the treasurer, Tirza Hanson, staged the pageant, "The vision," at Loa in the stake tabernacle. The house was filled to its capacity with appreciative spectators. One hundred fifty people took part in this pageant and the affair was very impressive and entirely successful. The pageant was given without charge, and all the wards of the stake were invited to attend. The Wayne stake  Relief Socity on a later date presented a drama to which there was an admission charge and eighty dollars was realized. Southern States Mission Mrs. Grace E. Callis reports that the Relief Society in the Southern States is making a marked improvement since holding regular meetings. The members are active in giving entertainments and socials, the proceeds of which are used to assist the branches in purchasing building sites for chapels. In one of the branches the Relief Society has organized a class in cooking. They are endeavoring to learn how to make "light bread" and other. Wholesome foods. To provide funds for charity purposes some of the sisters in outlying districts, have adopted the plan of saving their Sunday ? eggs which they sell and give the proceeds to this fund. The branch in Greenville, South Carolina, reports that by extending a helping hand to one who was very bitter towards the Church, they succeeded in makiyg a friend of this person. This incident was a testimony to all of them and they have been very grateful for the assistance this new friend has been able to give them. By giving entertainment, oyster suppers, box parties, and by holding a bazaar, quite a sum has been added to the treasury in this branch. The Society also makes quilts to sell and collects clothing for distribution. Western States Mission The members of the Pueblo Branch Relief Society have presented to the branch one hundred new song books. The Sheridan Relief Socity gave an entertainment in the character of a hard time "box social." Seventy-five guests were present and the auctioning of the boxes cleared the Relief Society forty-one dollars. Canadian Mission ? The Canadian mission is pleased to report that the growth has necessitated the establishment of three new Relief Society organizations. The Relief Society is growing not only in numbers but also in usefulness and efficiency. Oneida Stake The Relief Society in Oneida stake has been cooperating with the County Health Association. This association is composed of the various civic organizations throughout the country, and they are planning some constructive health measures. This organiza-  tion reports that the health work in the schools is much more effective at present than it has been in the past. The Relief Society in this stake is attempting to apply the Social Service lessons, and the sisters are pleased with the results. They report that they are accomplishing more than they have in the past when they were merely extending temporary relief to the families under their care. Jordan Stake A tribute to "Aunty Hayes" was paid to her on her ninetyfirst birthday by the sisters of the Midvale Relief Society. She is the oldest woman in the Jordan stake and is at this advanced age still in possession of all her faculties. She is a true English - housekeeper. Her little home is always neat and extremely clean; she washes, irons, mends, cooks, and it is her ambition to be a burden to no one. Her testimony and faith in the gospel is a shinning light and inspiration to all her associates and her many friends. North Sanpete Stake The corresponding secretary of the North Sanpete Relief Society has sent us the following report: "The commendable features found in the various wards have been presented at our stake meeting for the benefit of the other wards. While visiting through the stake, officers have been very kindly received, and in many cases special entertainments have been planned for them. Some of the board members visited the Oakville ward and gave a model program. The sisters of the ward greatly appreciated the 'visitors and expressed themselves as being very much encouraged. Feeling the need of being united, the stake board are. Holding the meetings once a month at the home of the various members, after which a social is enjoyed. Special efforts have been made to interest suitable young women in maternity nursing, and we are pleased that we have one young lady now taking the course and another enrolled for the next one. We aim to have at least four stake excursions to the Manti temple each year, and in response to our calls we have had several hundred days spent in this work." Montpelier Stake A special teachers' convention was held by the Montpelier stake Relief Society in November which gave a new impetus to the work. Papers on duties of teachers were read and discussed and talks were given by recently returned lady missionaries. These  missionary girls gave many excellent ideas on how to present a - topic in a home and some good points were made on how to learn all the needs of families in distress. St. Johns Stake Because of the long distances between the wards in St. Johns stake the Relief Society stake board finds it impossible to visit the organizations very often. So, in order to keep in touch with the various wards, the stake board has adopted a monthly report form which they ask each ward to fill out. A copy of this form is presented below: RELIEF SOCIETY MONTHLY REPORT No. Of officers and members attending meetings No. Of officers and teachers attending TeacherTraining class No. Of meetings held Ts all the lesson work given as outlined? If not, what lessons are omitted? No. Of districts in ward No. Of districts visited Do the visiting teachers use outlines sent in magazine? Mo PNAWMBRY NE | A Demonstration in Relief Society Teaching Mrs. Brown and daughter Jane sewing. There are the Relief Society teachers, Jane. I felt sure they would come today. Jane: Will they care if I stay?: Mrs. Brown: They will be glad. (A knock). Go to the dcor, dear. (Jane opens door and greets teachers; Mrs. B. Also rises to greet them warmly.) Mrs. Brown: Be seated. Mrs. Preston: We are the Relief Society teachers, Sister Brown. Mrs. B: Yes, we are so glad to halve you come.  Mrs. Preston: It is nice to have your daughter here, too. Are you well? Mrs. B: All quite well, thank you. Mrs. Nelson: You are looking better, Mrs. Brown. Mrs. B: I don't think I am worse. Mrs. P: I don't see how you can be en you look at your nice children. We are to talk to the people about prayer, today. Brother Morgan, in his address at Union Meeting, called it "keeping up correspondence with God." That thought was very impressive with me. If we have some one away from us whom we love very dearly, we send some message every day; and we look for messages frequently from the absent one. We have been sent down from our kind Father's home, to work in his kingdom for our own advancement. Should we not report to him every day?twice every day. In order that we may have a right to expect his messages to come to us? Mrs. Nelson: Too many are like the boy Brother Morgan 'spoke about, whose father said when he got: a letter, "I wonder what he wants now. He never writes except when he wants something." Mrs. P: Another thing Brother Morgan said was that Satan has lost the power to pray. Do you think it possible to lose this power? Mrs. Brown: I know it is easy to lose the desire. If we grow neglectful we lose the desire very soon. The 'speaker also emphasized the responsibility of women as keepers of the home. He claimed that as keeper of the home we should see that there is prayer in the home. So much depends upon the home spirit, and upon having things ready when prayer time comes. Mrs. Brown: I think that of all the things my mother did for me, I am most grateful for the spirit of prayer she instilled so early in my heart. Asa little child, I used to pray about every trouble that came to me. When my arithmetic lesson was hard, I would ask the Lord to help me to understand it, and then it would all clear up. Mrs. Nelson: It has been my lot all through life to have need to call upon the Lord for daily bread. He has continually opened the way for me and my children in answer to our prayers. Mrs. Preston: I think the privilege is so wonderful. That we may approach God?that he will listen?that he loves to hear us?it is all so great an expression of his love. We are now having a series of lessons on this subject in Relief Society meetings. Will you not meet with us next Tuesday, Sister Brown?  Mrs. Brown: I shall try to if I am well enough. Thank ou. 7 Mrs. Preston: Shall we go, Sister Nelson? Mrs. Nelson: Yes. I am so glad Miss Brown is here today. I love to tell the young girls and boys how much the gospel means to me, and to help them to understand the lessons of prayer and faith. ' Jane:. I am glad to be at home, Sister Nelson. Mrs. Nelson: Goodbye, Mrs. Brown. All: Goodbye. Jane: How nice those teachers are, mother. And I am so glad to hear you tell about school. I so often have to ask the Lord to help me in my school work. Mrs. Brown: It is as Sister Preston says, a splendid privilege. Let us try always to have our home a prayerful one. We must not lose the desire to pray. Jane: Mother, I didn't know the Relief Society teachers did their work in such a splendid way. These women have given us something to think about for days to come. We are the keepers of the home?we must keep up our correspondence with God. Mrs. Brown: Let us walk in the garden, Jane, and enjoy the sunshine while we lift our hearts to the kind heavenly Father for his goodness. PROGRAM OF AUXILIARY GROUP CONVENTIONS FOR 1922 To be held in connection with the regular quarterly conferences GROUP CONVENTION DATES, 1922 July 29-30: Woodruff, Yellowstone, Cassia, St. Johns. Aug. 5-6: Curlew, Lost River, Raft River, South Sanpete, Summit, Wayne, Snowflake, Alberta. Aug. 9-10: (Lethbridge) Aug. 12-13: Emery, Juab, Millard, Oneida, Taylor. Aug. 19-20: Bannock, Blackfoot, Big Horn, Blaine, Malad, ' Shelley, South Sevier, Teton. Aug. 26-27: Bear Lake, Bingham, Burley, Garfield, Idaho, Pocatello, Portneuf, San Juan. Sept. 2-3: Bear River, Boise, Panguitch, Rigby, Twin Falls, Uintah. J Sept. 16-17: Kanab, Montpelier, Morgan, North Sanpete, Star Valley, St. George, Roosevelt, San Luis. Sept. 19-20: Young.  Sept. 23-24: Carbon, Deseret, Franklin, Frenjont,, Parowan, Sevier, Union, Duchesne. Hyrum, Moapa, Maricopa, St. Joseph, Juarez, Tooele, Wasatch. ONE DAY CONVENTIONS Alpine Liberty Ogden Box Elder Logan Pioneer Cache Mount Ogden Salt Lake Cottonwood Nebo South Davis Ensign North Davis Utah Granite North Weber Weber Jordan TIME OF MEETINGS SATURDAY 10a. M.: Regular Quarterly Conference Session. If a. M.: Auxiliary meetings as follows: Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers. Sunday School?local superintendents, secretaries, librarians, and other Sunday School workers not engaged in other auxiliaries. Joint M. I. A. Stake Boards. Primary Association Stake Board. Note: All visitors not included in the above may attend the Relief Society or Sunday School Depts. 2 p. M.: Regular Quarterly Conference Session, devoted to the subject of "home building." 3:30 p. M.: Auxiliary meetings as follows: Relief Society Stake Board. Sunday School Stake Board. Joint M. I. A. Stake and Ward Officers. Primary Association Stake and Ward Officers. Note: All persons not included in the above may attend the M. I. A. Or Primary Departments. Evening: Stake Social. SUNDAY 9am.: Auxiliary meetings as follows: Relief Socity Stake and Ward Officers Y. M. M. I. A. Stake and Ward Officers Y. L. M. I. A. Stake and Ward Officers. Primary Association Stake and Ward Officers, After October Conference: Beaver, North Sevier, Tintic, Benson,  Note: All visitors may attend any one of the foregoing except the Relief Society. The above named organizations will meet and dismiss separately. 10:30 a. M.: Regular Quarterly Conference Session devoted to 2 p. 7 p. ?" Sunday School work. M.: Regular Quarterly Conference Session. M. Meeting if desired by local authorities. (Representatives will be pleased to attend if train schedules do not interfere.) PROGRAM OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS SATURDAY, ll a. M. Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers Report by the Stake President. Discuss the best feature of your year's work. By ward presidents. The Application of the Principles of the Gospel to Daily Life. 'a. The Gospel brings an ideal order of living in this world. B. True relation of man to God, and of men to fellow men. C. The value of love as a saving influence. D. What it means "to be born of God. E. Evidences man gives that he is living in conformity with the gospel. SATURDAY, 3:30 P. M. Relief Society Stake Board Meeting Questionnaire: (To be filled out by General Board member during session. ) Messages from the General Relief Society Conference, by General Board Member. Miscellaneous.  A. M. Stake and Ward Officers Relief Society Welfare Work. A. What it embraces. B. Some of the results, Questionnaire: (To be filled out by General Board member during session.) Miscellaneous. My Sabbath M. Sadie Spanton *?*Twas a Sabbath morning, and through the open window came the warm breath of early Spring, and with it the chirp and twitter of Spring's messengers, the blackbirds. But no answering gladness flooded my heart, for I was far from home and loved ores, and was unutterably lonesome. The suppressed bustle of the day only seemed to shut me more entirely out of the lives of those about m?, yet to prevent my finding comfort in the shelter of Fairyland?that world within one's heart where dreams come true, where there are no disappointment, no misunderstandings, and where happiness reigns supreme. And so I declared my intention of spending the day in the hills. Stares from my companions answered my announcement, then followed pitying smiles. It was evident that a day alone in. The great silence of the forest held no charms for them. They were wondering at my queer ideas, and while they pitied my loneliness, not knowing that to a sensitive, affectionate disposition there is no loneliness so oppressing as that found in an unsympathizing crowd. But I was not to be daunted; so, with a rug, pen and paper, some reading material, and lunch, I set off t? find rest and happiness after a trying week. A short walk from my boarding place brought me to a place, sheltered from the cold of the north wind, and out of sight or sound of the village. Here I built a fire to drive away the dampness of the recent snow; spread my rug near it, and prepared to enjoy a perfect day. ' Then, as I looked about me, the holy peace and beauty of the day filled my soul with joy. Here was God's great, wonderful world all unmarred by human hands. Here was perfect art?harmony complete. On ?very side rose low hills, one above the other, and all clothed in green? green of a dozen different tones?the fresh green of the grass that pushed its slender blades through the red-brown soil; the dull, gray-green of the evergreen shrub; the coppery green of the cedars; and the dark, shadowy green of the pinion pines. Even the tiny bee which buzzed noisily about my fire wore a coat of soft, glistening green. And over them all the sunbeams danced, turning them into a golden study of lights and darks. Beyond, yet almost within a stone's throw, so it seemed, arose the snowcovered peaks of the Dixie mountains, with the great, dark pines outlined in strange contrast to their white background, as if  guarding the unknown treasures buried beneath their feet. And smiling sweetly upon everything the great dome of heaven, cloudless and blue, gave promise of sunny days to come. Suddenly a great throb of gratitude took posession of me. The troubles, worries and disappointments of the past few weeks seemed fess stinging. That many people misunderstood me, misjudged my motives, and even thwarted my most cherished hopes, were of small consequence beside the knowledge that somewhere a mother and brotfers and sisters were awaiting my homecoming with open arms; that somewhere a dear little teacher, who understood, was thinking of "her girl," and what dozens of others had absolute faith and confidence in me. What were human disappointments when within my soul lay a testimony of the great and everlasting gospel? Ah! I was thankful, gloriously thankful, for the privilege of life; for the ability to see, to feel and to love. T had indeed entered Fairyland. Here I could live over happy hours with loved ones, now far away, and plan still happier hours for the time when we should again be together. Here I could be the woman I would become?more worthy of the many blessings He has given me. Faults were recognized and cast out. Feeling of bitterness were erased and new courage came to fill their place. And then came thoughts of the future, of the time when, God willing, I shall come into that wonderful inheritance which is every good woman's most sacred dream?the realm of worthy wifehood and motherhood. And I knew that He who watched and listened did not think my dreams unworthy or my time ill-spent. The sun was sinking rapidly and would soon be hidden behind the western hills. The day had been all too short. And it was hard for me to go back to the world of disillusion and work, yet T carried back to it a happier heart, a surer step, and a more conscious love for humanity than I had taken away. Later, as I dressed for Mutual, I thought of the words that had greeted my return: "How could you stay off alone alt day?" And I could but wonder in my turn: "Just what does life mean to those who cannot be happy for even so short a period as one day without the presence of others, who cannot soar away from today's sordid cares and trials on the wings of fancy?" And as I asked the question of my own heart the answer came: _ "We cannot all be alike. God's greatest masterpiece, 'The Valley of Life,' would be incomplete without both the realist and the dreamer. He knoweth best." But as I knelt at my bedside that night I thanked the Giver of gifts for my gift of dreams. Parting C. W. PENROSE.. GEO. CARELESS. Andantino. P + a, freaP: 4 _| a i =o = ? a. A P=) -} P= C eo. " a a 4 a?a = 1. Death gathers up thick clouds of gloom, And wounds the 9. 'The res-ur-rec-tion and the Life,'"? What hope and 3. We lose a lead-ing Mas - ter Mind, But spir - it 4. Farewell, dear Brother Brigham Young, God called thee 2. ? ?@ al [7 2a =e =] SS aS I ? ? E27 ?F ?? - jp# ft a p 4 == SS ee gt He te soul with anguish deep; Gaunt sorrow sits. Upjoy that ti-tle brings! Death's but a myth with hosts be - hind the veil, New strength and add - ed through th' e-ter - nal gate, Thy fame shall dwell. On a | | 2 ee:; ca a @?fe =); IC 7 ?? e __ '? | am] ? tt ?; i a eS 3 = loa eee os et J on the tomb, And round the grave dense shad - ows hor - rors rife, And flees before the King of - wis-dom find, To makeour mu-tual work preev - ery tongue, And Saints thy = a em - u- ? pape t= =F =  a = | > St = Fes 4 = = ee ze gd ee ea creep. But faith beams down from God's fair skies, And bids the Kings. Then shall we mourn and weep to - day, Because our vail. Ho-sannas greet his entrance there, And Joseph late. Thy work on earth was nobly done, And peace smiles fan y ml NaN I | == o-Ps Ft "Roe glee Chief has gone to rest? He = slumbers not in sweet - ly on thee now, The crown ce - les-tial p ee _?????? we]? <a et P| 1, gS es dl tear-dried eyes, And lo! There stands that cold clay; He lives apd moves bow in prayer, And fu - neral notes thou hast won, In splen - dor waits oo aw the Ho-ly One! A - mong the blest. In grief we raise. To deck thy brow! -2- y~?[? 42 C2 ?. E Py oe. Ao. Oat 7 ja ad a ee ae A ae (aan Tea eS Ss ae = aan eos c: 5s x ses, ee a = | clouds and shades be - gone, waits with words of We gaze with brightened praise, While here sad thousands