[Vol34 | October 1947 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Editorial | Title: Diamond Sharp]
911IIKSTWM 
lA^ASIJ! 
mnf     1 
% 
&    w... 
*:;* 
Lessons  for  January 
OCTOBER  1947

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Monthly  publication  of  the  Relief  Society  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  GENERAL  BOARD 
Belle  S.   Spafford  ------  President 
Marianne  C.  Sharp  -----  First  Counselor 
Gertrude   R.    Garff  _--_'_       Second  Counselor 
Margaret  C.   Pickering     -----     Secretary-Treasurer 
Achsa  E.  Paxman  Priscilla  L.  Evans  Evon  W.  Peterson  Florence  G.  Smith 
Mary  G.  Judd  Florence  J.  Madsen  Leone  O.  Jacobs  Lillie  C.  Adams 
Anna  B.  Hart  Leone  G.  Layton  Velma  N.  Simonsen  Ethel  C.  Smith 
Edith  S.  Elliott  Blanche  B.  Stoddard  Mary  J.  Wilson 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Editor              .-_-_-.---  Marianne  C.   Sharp 
Associate  Editor       -----             _.--  Vesta  P.  Crawford 
General  Manager    ---------  Belle    S.    Spafford 
Vol.  34  OCTOBER  1947  No.  10 
Lsontents 
SPECIAL  FEATURES 
Seventy-fifth  Birthday  Year  
 Rosannah  Cannon  Irvine  651 
Utah   Entertains   the    Governors    
 Edith   S.    Elliott  656 
Vesta  P.  Crawford  Appointed  Associate  Editor  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine       
  Marianne   C.   Sharp  664 
The  Gift  Drawer  
 Ivie   H.   Jones  675 
Co-operative   Dinners    
 Emily   H.    Bennett  686 
Vanity   Stool   and   Hamper    Eva   Willes   Wangsgaard  690 
FICTION 
The  Kidnaping  
 Fay   Tarlock  665 
Where   Trails  Run   Out— Chapter  9  
 Anna   Prince   Redd  676 
GENERAL  FEATURES 
Sixty  Years  Ago  
  670 
Woman's  Sphere  
 Ramona  W.  Cannon  671 
Editorial:  Diamond  Jubilee  of  Women's  Periodical    Marianne  C.   Sharp  672 
Isabel  B.  Callister  Resigns  from  General  Board     673 
In   Memoriam:      Edith    Grant   Young    Passes    
  673 
Notes  From  the  Field    . 
 General  Secretary-Treasurer,   Margaret   C.    Pickering  695 
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
Theology:    Gabriel's  Annunciation  of  John  and  Jesus:    The  Babe  of  Bethlehem    
  Elder   Don    B.    Colton  702 
Visiting  Teachers'  Messages:    Social  Activities    President  Amy  Brown  Lyman  706 
Work  Meeting:  Sewing — Altering  the  Pattern  to  Suit  the  Figure  Type  ...Jean  Ridges  Jennings  707 
Literature:    Epistles  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants    Elder  H.  Wayne  Driggs  708 
Social  Science:     Chastity  
 Elder  Joseph   Jacobs  712 
POETRY 
Prayer  of  a  Pipe  Organ — Frontispiece  
 Julia  Nelson  649 
Vignette  of  October  
 Ruby  Baird  Andersen  655 
Discovery  
 Margery  S.  Stewart  674 
The  Shallow  Streams  
 Dorothy  J.   Roberts  685 
Storm   and   Calm  
 Beatrice    K.    Ekman  685 
Autumn  Day  
 Christie  Lund  Coles  685 
The  Joy  of  Doing  
 Caroline  Eyring  Miner  689 
Dusk  on  the  Beach  
 Melba   S.    Payne  694 
To    Find— To    Lose    
 Evelyn    Fjeldsted  718 
PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  BY  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
Editorial  and  Business  Offices:  28  Bishop's  Building,  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah,  Phone  3-2741:  Sub- 
scriptions 246:  Editorial  Dept.  245.  Subscription  Price:  $1.50  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year; 
payable  in  advance.  Single  copy,  15c.  The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No 
back  numbers  can  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report  change 
of  address   at  once,   giving   both   old   and   new   address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under 
the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in 
section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917t  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned 
unless  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only 
The  Magazine   is   not  responsible  for   unsolicited   manuscripts.

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
VOL.  34,  NO.  10  OCTOBER  1947 
PRAYER  OF  A  PIPE  ORGAN 
Julia  Nelson 
Lord,  I  have  breathed  into  still,  tapered  gloom, 
And  light,  unmasking  muffled,  weak  despair, 
Has  touched  a  wordless  thought,  a  mute  desire 
That  soared,  in  purest  harmony,  to  prayer; 
And  I  have  rung  white  bells  of  sound  to  some 
Who  walked  in  joy,  perfecting  their  rich  peace 
With  music's  benediction;  through  the  years, 
An  echoing  comfort  stayed,  when  rapture  ceased. 
My  chords  are  vibrant  underneath  the  roll 
Of  surging  voices;  when  a  thousand  sing, 
I  bear  their  last  and  holiest  amen 
To  thee  ....  an  organ's  reverent  whispering. 
Lord,  I  am  but  an  instrument,  a  frame, 
Cold  hollow  veins,  mere  wood  and  bone  and  steel; 
In  all  thy  gifts  to  man,  save  yet  for  me 
This  glorious  power  to  show  what  others  feel. 
The  Cover:    "The  Manti  Temple,"  Photograph  by  Grace  T.  Kirton.

Photograph  by  Wiliard  Luce 
CENTER  PIPES  OF  THE  TABERNACLE  ORGAN 
L.  D.  S.  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah

Seventy-fifth  Birthday  Year 
Rosannah  Cannon  Irvine 
Former  Member,  Relief  Society  General  Board 
(On  June  1,  1947,  the  woman's  periodical  of  the  Church  marked  its  seventy-fifth  birth- 
day, known  as  The  Woman's  Exponent  until  1914  and  thereafter  called  The  Relief  So- 
ciety Magazine. — Ed. ) 
4  6  %  V  7H0  can  find  a  virtuous  the  Woman's  Exponent  came  into 
Y^  woman?  for  her  price  is  existence.  It  was  the  second  worn- 
far  above  rubies  .  .  .  an's  paper  west  of  the  Mississippi. 
She  stretcheth  out  her  hand  to  the  Almost  isolated  from  the  rest  of 
poor;  yea,  she  reacheth  forth  her  the  world,  having  few  of  the  modern 
hands  to  the  needy  ....  Strength  means  of  communication,  it  is  re- 
and  honour  are  her  clothing  ....  markable  how  this  little  sheet  kept 
Favor  is  deceitful,  and  beauty  is  vain;  abreast  of  the  times.  Besides  reports 
but  a  woman  that  feareth  the  Lord,  and  instructions,  there  were  items  of 
she  shall  be  praised.  Give  her  of  the  special  interest,  bits  of  local,  nation- 
fruit  of  her  hands;  and  let  her  own  al,  and  international  news,  house- 
works praise  her  in  the  gates."  hold  suggestions,  home  economics, 
It  is  probable  that  the  Prophet  Jo-  training  of  children,  hints  on  beauty, 
seph  Smith  was  familiar  with  these  fashions,  and  good  manners,  poetry, 
passages  from  Proverbs.  And  it  is  humor.  Wit,  philosophy,  and  wis- 
more  than  likely  that  he  had  listened  dom  were  in  its  contents,  and,  with 
to  the  quietly  insistent  voices  of  the  it  all,  the  charm  and  impressiveness 
wives  and  mothers  in  the  Church  of  good  literature.  And  there  were 
seeking  an  opportunity  to  share,  in  advertisements  of  local  products, 
greater  measure,  the  burdens  and  re-  even  in  those  early  issues  of  the 
sponsibilities  of  the  organization  of  Exponent.  These  attracted  much  at- 
which  they  were  members.  What-  tention.  Many  of  them  were  amus- 
ever  the  cause  may  have  been,  no  ing,  and  often  the  items  advertised 
one  has  ever  doubted  the  wisdom  seemed  so  intriguing  that  one  could 
and  inspiration  of  the  founding  of  wish  they  were  on  the  market  today, 
the  "Female  Relief  Society  of  Nau-  This  co-operation  with  the  merch- 
voo"  as  a  potent,  working  auxiliary  ants  was  a  financial  aid  to  the  infant 
to  the  Priesthood.  In  time  this  name  periodical,  and  helped  to  popularize 
was  changed  to  the  "Relief  Society  the  Exponent  as  well  as  the  goods 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat-  advertised. 
ter-day  Saints."  To  the  retrospective  mind,  read- 
Thirty  years  later,  the  need  of  this  ing  the  old  volumes  of  the  Wom- 
organization  for  an  official  medium  an's  Exponent  is  an  inspiration  and 
to  transmit  instructions,  news,  and  a  delight.  To  those  who  haven't 
other  matters  of  interest  to  the  worn-  access  to  the  old  volumes,  there  is  a 
en  of  the  Church  became  apparent,  page  of  excerpts  from  the  original 
In  this,  as  in  so  many  other  ways,  numbers  in  the  current  Magazines. 
Mormon  women  were  leaders  in  pro-  These  give  a  fascinating  insight  into 
gressive  movements.  It  was  then  that  the  intellectual  activity  and  courage 
Page  651