[Vol34 | October 1947 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Where Chapter]
O  God,  where  art  thou?  And  where  is 
the  pavilion  that  covereth  thy  hiding  place? 
How  long  shall  thy  hand  be  stayed,  and 
thine  eye,  yea  thy  pure  eye,  behold  from 
the  eternal  heavens  the  wrongs  of  thy  peo- 
ple and  of  thy  servants,  and  thine  ear  be 
penetrated  with  their  cries?  Yea,  O  Lord, 
how  long  shall  they  suffer  these  wrongs  and 
unlawful  oppressions,  before  thine  heart 
shall  be  softened  toward  them,  and  thy 
bowels  be  moved  with  compassion  toward 
them?  O  Lord  God  Almighty,  maker  of 
heaven,  earth,  and  seas,  and  of  all  things 
that    in    them    are,   and    who    controllest 
and  subjectest  the  devil,  and  the  dark  and 
benighted  dominion  of  Sheol — stretch 
forth  thy  hand;  let  thine  eye  pierce;  let 
thy  pavilion  be  taken  up;  let  thy  hiding 
place  no  longer  be  covered;  let  thine  ear 
be  inclined;  let  thine  heart  be  softened, 
and  thy  bowels  moved  with  compassion 
toward  us.  Let  thine  anger  be  kindled 
against  our  enemies;  and,  in  the  fury  of 
thine  heart,  with  thy  sword  avenge  us  of 
our  wrongs.  Remember  thy  suffering 
saints,  O  our  God;  and  thy  servants  will  re- 
joice in  thy  name  forever  (121:1-6). 
The  Lord  often  speaks  to  his  chil- 
dren through  his  Prophet  in  lan- 
guage powerful  and  quick.  From  a 
literary  point  of  view  such  writing  is 
expository  and  doctrinal  in  nature, 
but  often,  too,  it  is  filled  with  poetic 
figures.  Study  the  lines  of  this  rev- 
elation explaining  a  pattern  of  good 
life: 
Wherefore,  lift  up  your  hearts  and  re- 
joice, and  gird  up  your  loins,  and  take  up- 
on you  my  whole  armor,  that  ye  may  be 
able  to  withstand  the  evil  day,  having  done 
all,  that  ye  may  be  able  to  stand.  Stand, 
therefore,  having  your  loins  girt  about 
with  truth,  having  on  the  breastplate  of 
righteousness,  and  your  feet  shod  with  the 
preparation  of  the  gospel  of  peace,  which 
I  have  sent  mine  angels  to  commit  unto 
you;  Taking  the  shield  of  faith  wherewith 
ye  shall  be  able  to  quench  all  the  fiery 
darts  of  the  wicked;  And  take  the  helmet 
of  salvation,  and  the  sword  of  my  Spirit, 
which  I  will  pour  out  upon  you,  and  my 
word  which  I  reveal  unto  you,  and  be 
agreed  as  touching  all  things  whatsoever  ye 
ask  of  me,  and  be  faithful  until  I  come, 
and  ye  shall  be  caught  up,  that  where  I 
am  ye  shall  be  also.  Amen  (27:15-18). 
Divine  instruction  is  often  given 
in  literary  forms.  Note  the  effect  of 
the  rhetorical  questions  used  by  the 
Lord  in  the  following  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants: 
Verily  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  my 
servant  William  Marks,  and  also  unto  my 
servant  Newel  K.  Whitney,  let  them  settle 
up  their  business  speedily  and  journey  from

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
645 
the  land  of  Kirtland,  before  I,  the  Lord, 
send  again  the  snows  upon  the  earth.  Let 
them  awake,  and  arise,  and  come  forth, 
and  not  tarry,  for  I,  the  Lord,  command 
it.  Therefore,  if  they  tarry  it  shall  not  be 
well  with  them.  Let  them  repent  of  all 
their  sins,  and  of  all  their  covetous  desires, 
before  me,  saith  the  Lord;  for  what  is 
property  unto  me?  saith  the  Lord.  Let 
the  properties  of  Kirtland  be  turned  out 
for  debts,  saith  the  Lord.  Let  them  go, 
saith  the  Lord,  and  whatsoever  remaineth, 
let  it  remain  in  your  hands,  saith  the  Lord. 
For  have  I  not  the  fowls  of  heaven,  and 
also  the  fish  of  the  sea,  and  the  beasts  of 
the  mountains?  Have  I  not  made  the 
earth?  Do  I  not  hold  the  destinies  of  all 
the  armies  of  the  nations  of  the  earth? 
Therefore,  will  I  not  make  solitary  places  to 
bud  and  to  blossom,  and  to  bring  forth  in 
abundance?  saith  the  Lord.  Is  there  not 
room  enough  on  the  mountains  of  Adam- 
ondi-Ahman,  and  on  the  plains  of  Olaha 
Shinehah,  or  the  land  where  Adam  dwelt, 
that  you  should  covet  that  which  is  but 
the  drop,  and  neglect  the  more  weighty 
matters?  Therefore,  come  up  hither  unto 
the  land  of  my  people,  even  Zion  (117: 
i-9). 
Another  form  of  the  Hebraic  style 
of  writing  is  classified  as  the  Tar- 
gum.  Here,  other  existing  scrip- 
ture is  interpreted  or  explained: 
Q.  What  is  the  sea  of  glass  spoken  of 
by  John,  4th  chapter,  and  6th  verse  of  the 
Revelation?  A.  It  is  the  earth,  in  its 
sanctified,  immortal,  and  eternal  state. 
Q.  What  are  we  to  understand  by  the 
four  beasts,  spoken  of  in  the  same  verse? 
A.  They  are  figurative  expressions,  used  by 
the  Revelator,  John,  in  describing  heaven, 
the  paradise  of  God,  the  happiness  of  man, 
and  of  beasts,  and  of  creeping  things,  and 
of  the  fowls  of  the  air;  that  which  is  spirit- 
ual being  in  the  likeness  of  that  which  is 
temporal;  and  that  which  is  temporal  in 
the  likeness  of  that  which  is  spiritual;  the 
spirit  of  man  in  the  likeness  of  his  person, 
as  also  the  spirit  of  the  beast,  and  every 
other  creature  which  God  has  created  (77: 
1-2). 
For  the  pure  element  of  literary 
excellence  in  emotions,  perhaps  none 
is  greater  than  the  song  or  lyric  and 
the  rhapsody.  Consider  the  next 
two  selections,  the  first  might  be 
called  a  psalm  or  poem,  while  the 
second,  a  rhapsody  in  type,  is  a  fu- 
sion, in  part,  of  literary  forms  such 
as  would  be  found  in  drama,  lyric, 
narrative  or  prophetic  writings: 
The  Lord  hath  brought  again  Zion; 
The  Lord  hath  redeemed'  his  people,  Israel, 
According  to  the  election  of  grace, 
Which  was  brought  to  pass  by  the  faith 
And  covenant  of  their  fathers. 
The  Lord  hath  redeemed  his  people; 
And  Satan  is  bound  and  time  is  no  longer. 
The  Lord  hath  gathered  all  things  in  one. 
'Hie  Lord  hath  brought  down  Zion  from 
above. 
The  Lord  hath  brought  up  Zion  from  be- 
neath. 
The  earth  hath  travailed  and  brought  forth 
her  strength; 
And  truth  is  established  in  her  bowels; 
And  the  heavens  have  smiled  upon  her; 
And  she  is  clothed  with  the  glory  of  her 
God; 
For  he  stands  in  the  midst  of  his  people. 
Glory,  and  honor,  and  power,  and  might, 
Be  ascribed  to  our  God;  for  he  is  full  of 
mercy, 
Justice,  grace  and  truth,  and  peace. 
Forever  and  ever,  Amen. 
(84:99-102). 
And  now,  verily  saith  the  Lord,  that 
these  things  might  be  known  among  you, 
O  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  I  have  sent 
forth  mine  angel  flying  through  the  midst 
of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting  gospel, 
who  hath  appeared  unto  some  and  hath 
committed  it  unto  man,  who  shall  appear 
unto  many  that  dwell  on  the  earth.  And 
this  gospel  shall  be  preached  unto  every 
nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  peo- 
ple. And  the  servants  of  God  shall  go 
forth,  saying  with  a  loud  voice:  Fear  God 
and  give  glory  to  him,  for  the  hour  of  his 
judgment  is  come;  and  worship  him  that 
made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the  sea,  and 
the  fountains  of  waters — calling  upon  the 
name  of  the  Lord  day  and  night,  saying: 
O  that  thou  wouldst  rend  the  heavens,  that 
thou  wouldst  come  down,  that  the  moun- 
tains might  flow  down  at  thy  presence. 
And  it  shall  be  answered  upon  their  heads;