[Vol34 | October 1947 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]
THE  KIDNAPING 
669 
I  called,  forgetting  Spanish,  "is  Dan- 
ny with  you?" 
She  understood  and  came  out  of 
her  apartment,  calling,  "No,  Senora, 
no." 
I  gave  my  instructions.  Dolores 
was  to  run  to  the  house  of  Marcita. 
My  husband  was  to  go  out  on  the 
street,  while  I  went  into  the  house  of ( 
the  Senora.  Danny,  I  felt,  was  there. 
None  of  the  family  was  at  home.  In 
the  servant  quarters  I  found  Mer- 
cedes, drying  her  hair  from  her  recent 
bano. 
"No  esta,  Senora,  no  esta,"  she 
told  me  placidly,  but  she  put  down 
her  comb  and  trotted  amiably  up  the 
back  stairs.  I  could  hear  her  calling 
through  the  bedrooms  and  out  on 
the  roof. 
"No  esta/'  she  announced,  smil- 
ing, on  her  return. 
Danny  was  not  with  Marcita.  I 
began  to  know  panic. 
"You  go  down  Chilpancingo,"  I 
called  to  my  husband.  "See  if  he 
has  started  to  the  park." 
I  sent  Dolores  up  Avenida  Insur- 
gentes,  one  of  the  main  traffic  ave- 
nues of  the  city.  I  would  go  to 
Iztacihuatl,  where  Danny  often  ac- 
companied me  to  the  panaderia. 
I  sped  along,  passing  Dolores  by 
the  court.  I  thought  of  all  the  men 
who  might  wish  my  husband  harm : 
the  policeman  whom  he  had  refused 
consent  to  go  to  the  States,  the 
drunken  campesino,  he  had  ejected 
from  a  train,  the  officials  with 
whom  he  had  had  trouble.  I  was 
tearing  down  Iztacihuatl  then,  dim- 
ly conscious  that  people  were  staring 
at  me.  A  crazy  Gringo  woman,  no 
doubt,  they  thought. 
HTHOSE  men  on  the    street    this 
morning!    The  beggars!    Danny 
could  have  been  snatched  away 
while  the  gardener  and  his  men  were 
at  the  gate.  Enrique  himself  might 
have  been  a  tool.  So  many  men 
knew  Danny.  My  throat  was  burn- 
ing, and  my  head  was  light  from  run- 
ning in  the  thin  air. 
Far  down  on  Iztacihuatl  a  group  of 
children  were  standing  in  a  tight 
circle.  Many  of  them  were  children 
of  the  street,  barefooted,  with  worn 
overalls,  I  noticed,  as  I  came  closer. 
Panting,  I  pushed  my  way  through 
the  circle. 
There,  in  the  center,  with  a  slight- 
ly fatuous  grin  on  his  face,  was  my 
son,  seated  on  his  Mike  and  enjoying 
the  attention. 
Close  to  him,  protecting  him  from 
the  pressing  group,  was  a  woman 
dressed  in  brown,  with  red-gold  hair. 
She  was,  I  thought  in  my  first  second 
of  relief,  either  a  Spanish  refugee  or 
of  Spanish  origin. 
"You  are  the  mother  of  thees  boy, 
yes?  You  theenk  we  have  keed- 
naped  heem,  no?"  she  asked,  with 
a  disarming  smile. 
Relief  left  me  weak  and  unable  to 
answer  her. 
"I  tell  the  children,"  the  woman 
said,  carefully  picking  each  English 
word,  "that  thees  ees  an  American 
keed.  I  tell  them,  look  at  these 
straight  legs,  the  flesh  so  firm  on 
heem/  I  tell  them,  look  at  these 
round  cheeks/  not  lean  like  theirs. 
Took  at  the  color  of  health  een 
them/  I  say,  'the  quality  in  the  way 
he  holds  hees  head.  Eet  ees  because 
of  being  an  American  that  he  ees 
so/  The  good  food  you  feed  him. 
All  the  meelk  and  veetameens.  And 
no  candy,  for  how  could  he  have 
teeth  like  that  and  eat  of  the  sweets? 
I  tell  them  that  een  your  United 
(Continued  on  page  694)

Sixty    LJears  J^go 
Excerpts  from  the  Woman's  Exponent,  October  1,  and  October  15,  1887 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
WOMAN'S  VOICE:  The  Gospel,  or  the  building  up  of  the  kingdom,  gives  all 
who  desire  to  be  useful  an  opportunity  to  cultivate  their  talents,  extend  their  usefulness 
and  be  a  blessing  to  mankind,  by  assisting  to  build  up  and  promote  all  the  interests  of 
Zion. — M.  E.  Teasdale 
HOME  MANUFACTURES:  The  manufacture  of  soaps  of  various  grades  has 
now  become  a  settled  and  paying  business.  A  fine  quality  of  hats  is  also  made.  Boots 
and  shoes  and  clothing,  glass,  white  lead,  lead  pipe,  native  paints,  brushes,  paper,  print- 
ing type,  starch,  pearl  barley,  and  oatmeal  are  all  manufactured  in  the  Territory,  and 
many  of  these  articles  in  sufficient  quantity  to  meet  the  local  demand  and  to  export  to 
some  extent. — Wilford  Woodruff 
IDLENESS:  Industry  is  honorable;  idleness  is  degrading.  Girls,  in  making  choice 
of  a  husband,  shun  the  idler,  or  the  person  who  wishes  to  make  a  living  without  work. 
If  there  are  any  of  your  acquaintances  who  think  there  are  better  ways  of  making  a 
living  than  by  honest  labor,  they  are  mistaken,  and  beware  of  allowing  your  affections 
to  go  out  toward  them  in  the  least. — Hattie  Adams 
A  DELIGHTFUL  MEETING:  The  meeting  of  the  sisters,  held  in  the  14th 
Ward  (Salt  Lake  City)  September  3rd,  was  of  unusual  interest.  Counselor  E.  Howard 
was  addressing  the  congregation  from  the  stand,  when  surprise  and  joy  suddenly  filled 
every  heart  and  lighted  up  every  countenance.  This  happy  effect  was  occasioned  by  the 
entering,  unannounced,  of  Zion's  venerable,  honored  and  beloved  poetess,  Sister  Eliza 
R.  Snow.  This  being  her  first  appearance  in  public  since  her  recovery  from  the  very 
severe  illness  which  she  has  lately  endured,  it  was  no  wonder  that  the  hearts  of  her 
sisters  should  overflow  with  unspeakable  pleasure  and  gratitude  at  again  beholding  her 
in  their  midst. — L.G.R. 
REMINISCENCES 
I  stood  beside  the  self-same  rippling  brook, 
The  soft  winds  whispered  to  me  as  of  yore, 
And  all  the  landscape  wore  the  conscious  look 
Of  having  known  me  many  years  before. 
All  things  familiar  seemed,  and  yet  how  strange, 
To  think  in  me  how  passing  great  the  change. 
— Selected 
MAKE  FRIENDS:  Life  is  very  critical.  Any  word  may  be  our  last.  Any  farewell, 
even  among  joy  and  merriment,  may  be  forever.  If  this  truth  were  but  burned  into  our 
consciousness,  would  it  not  make  us  far  more  tender  than  we  sometimes  are? 
— Munsford's  Magazine 
GEMS 
The  seeds  of  love  can  never  grow  but  under  the  warm  and  genial  influence  of  kind- 
ly feelings  and  affectionate  manners. 
I  believe  in  the  democracy  of  the  family.  If  in  this  world  there  is  anything  splen- 
did, it  is  a  home  where  all  are  equal. 
— Selected 
Page  670

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
W 'OMEN  have  contributed  con- 
siderably to  the  ambitious,  year- 
long Utah  Centennial  program. 
Rosella  F.  Larkin  serves  on  the  Cen- 
tennial Commission.  Maud  Hard- 
man,  assistant  chairman  of  the  Art 
Committee,  helped  to  select  the 
Utah  artists'  exhibit  that  toured  the 
State,  and  conducted  tours  of  the 
"One  Hundred  Years  of  American 
Art"  exhibit,  lent  by  the  Metropol- 
itan and  Whitney  Museums.  In  the 
Arts  Division  are  Belle  S.  Spafford, 
General  President  of  Relief  Society, 
and  Kate  B.  Carter,  President  of 
Daughters  of  Utah  Pioneers,  which 
organization  has  been  of  great  serv- 
ice throughout  the  Centennial.  On 
the  drama  committee  are  Irma  F. 
Bitner,  Marba  C.  Josephson,  Lucy 
G.  Cannon,  President  of  the 
Y.W.M.I.A.;  on  the  music  commit- 
tee, Glenn  W.  Wallace.  The  Utah 
pioneer  dance  chairman  is  Jessie 
Schofield.  Fairfax  P.  Walkup  did 
the  costume  section  of  the  source 
book  and  supervised  costuming  of 
the  July  parade. 
The  exquisite  Utah-theme  coro- 
nation gowns  of  the  Queen  and  her 
two  attendants,  the  "nations"  cos- 
tumes, and  some  others  were  de- 
signed by  Lester  and  Margaret  Essig, 
noted  costumers  of  Chicago.  Mar- 
garet is  a  daughter  of  the  late  Apostle 
Orson  F.  Whitney. 
In  January,  Alice  M.  Home  ex- 
hibited at  Z.C.M.I.  six  murals  by 
Minerva  H.  Teichert,  movingly  por- 
traying pioneer  scenes.  She  lent  pic- 
tures by  Hafen,  Harwood,  Fairbanks, 
Ottinger,  and  Clawson  to  the  exhibit 
of  pioneer  art  at  the  Exposition. 
The  beautiful  Church  pageant, 
Message  oi  the  Ages,  was  written  by 
Bertha  A.  Kleinman.  Irma  F.  Bit- 
ner and  Charlotte  Stewart  directed 
two  of  the  four  sections.  Bea  T. 
Thomas,  Becky  Thompson,  Rowena 
J.  Miller  and  May  Green  assisted. 
Lorna  Taylor  designed  costumes. 
M.LA.  contest  prizes  were  won  as 
follows:  three-act  play,  Ruth  Hale, 
with  her  husband,  Nathan;  one-act 
play,  Alice  M.  Bailey;  song,  Beth  H. 
Moore;  short  story,  Estelle  W. 
Thomas. 
Florence  Ware  supervised  beau- 
tification  of  the  Exposition  grounds. 
She  also  supervised  the  exhibit 
of  Utah  art,  changed  weekly.  Artistic 
Barbara  V.  Fealy  was  landscape 
gardener.  Vassie  O'Brien  and 
Ethleen  Hillman  supervised  the  flow- 
er shows  and  the  lighted  shadow  box 
decorations.  Secretary  of  the  State 
Fair  Board,  Elsie  Van  Noy,  was  very 
co-operative. 
Noted  Helen  Tamaris,  choreg- 
rapher  for  the  musical,  Promised 
Valley,  was  ably  assisted  by  the  Salt 
Lake  dancer,  Virginia  Tanner.  Se- 
reta  Jones,  of  Salt  Lake,  designed  the 
lovely  costumes.  Sarah  Mallory  was 
a  judge  for  the  prize  Centennial  play. 
Page  671