[Vol34 | October 1947 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: The Gift Jones]

Page 674
The Gift Drawer Ivie H. Jones President, Spanish-American Mission Relief Society T first we called it the "White Elephant Drawer," because we put into this drawer all of the small toys and storybooks, and some of the good used clothing that we had outgrown or had little need for. The children loved to go to this handy drawer and select a book or a tiny toy for some sick playmate at the hospital. We soon, however, discarded the name, "White Elephant," and called it our "Gift Drawer," by which name it has been known for many years. All types of gifts have graced this drawer, ten-cent store, and good jewelry, lovely linens, less expensive cottons, ornaments, and accessories, odd and attractive buttons. This gift drawer could have been a junk heap, except for our collecting suitable boxes and wrappings for our gifts, thus keeping the drawer in order and reducing the labor of mailing to a minimum. We have especially enjoyed the card section of our gift drawer. This consists of seven small, fairly flat cardboard boxes all the same size. Each box is held shut with a heavy rubber band, and on each box is written in large letters one of the following: Birthday Cards, Sympathy, Get Well, Hospitality, Christmas, Special Occasions, and Cards to Accompany Gifts. -It has been a delight to be able to go. To this gift drawer and select an appropriate gift for any occasion, without having to hunt all over the: house for something which has been misplaced. It has been fun making and buying to replenish our supply. A lovely handkerchief, an apron from a Relief Society bazaar, remnants, dishes, and odds and ends sold by stores at reduced prices during January and February inventory sales, including attractive ties for men (not usually found in the picked-over group displayed at Christmas time), pillow cases made by ourselves, a bit of crocheted or knitted lace—all find their way to our gift drawer. Never at any time since the gift drawer idea was conceived, when the children were tiny, to the present time when they are all married and have families of their own, has our gift drawer been entirely empty. Page 675