[Vol34 | October 1947 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Vanity Stool and Wangsgaard]
Lining for the bottom circle.
The long double strip was treated in the same manner, pinned, and basted, and sewed on the machine, crease to crease, in the same manner as were the brocade and the muslin, while it lay flat. A final seam was allowed for and joined when the process was completed, making a circular set of pockets. The pockets were 1 inch from the bottom of the lining and 3 inches from the top. The loops are of a generous size, 5 inches of lining and 10 inches of fold, and will hold a pair of slippers or a roll of knitting or crocheting. A circle of lining 13 inches in diameter was cut and joined to the pocketed lining at. the bottom after the final seam. To make a hinge, a piece of brocade was cut, interlined with firm cotton, seamed like a belt, reversed, and tailored. When finished it was 7 inches wide and 9 inches long, and was sewed to the upholstery on the sewing machine at a line directly over the padded curve at the back of the finished stool. A deep pleat in the upholstery, taken at the right side of each padded loop, fitted the brocade to the lining. Both upholstery and lining were seamed and were cylindrical in form at this stage. The lining and upholstery were joined on the machine, face to face, and care was taken to insert the down flap of the hinge in the seam.
VANITY STOOL AND HAMPER
Then the lining was slipped inside the keg and the upholstery was eased down over the outside. A few well placed tacks held the lining and the top of the upholstery in place while the upholstery was stretched taut and tacked to the bottom of the keg, making pleats to correspond with those at the top. A piece of cardboard the size of the bottom of the keg was tacked over the whole, hiding all raw edges. For the lid, heavy layers of batting were cut a little larger than the plywood and a circle of brocade, 18 inches in diameter, was fitted over all with care being taken to center the design. This was tacked on the reverse side. 693
Next, the hassock was laid on its side and the lid laid alongside, touching at a tangent. The hinge was nailed to the inner side of the lid. A small tab of brocade was made and attached to the lid in front to serve as a lifting handle. A circle of cardboard was cut 14 inches in diameter and one of lining material 17 inches in diameter was laid over the cardboard. A length of twine sewed in a running stitch around the lining circle and drawn tight on the reverse side of the cardboard made a lining for the lid. This was tacked over the hinge, tab, and raw edges for a neat finish. The lid was supported by grosgrain ribbon of a color to match the RECTANGULAR HAMPER Note the attractiveness of the brocade covering and the handy pockets. 694 lining, being tacked on each side to the middle of the lid and to the middle of the keg. The tacks were hidden under tailored bows. Fancy cord could be used for the same purpose. Stockings and is used regularly as a vanity stool and has served, also, as an occasional chair. The round stool holds shoes and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1947
