
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 18.                  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1889.            No. 1.


THE DEAR OLD GARDEN.
My dear old garden! still I call it mine;
And mine it is, for in its grateful shade
Of ev'ry tree, and shrub, and flow'ring vine,
My children and my children's children play'd. 
Round these my aching heart instinctive clings,
And they to me are sweet and tender things.

Under those trees I've sauntered to and fro,
In search of hidden gems of precious thought,
Perchance some wayward fancies all aglow
Have been in chains of measur'd rhythm caught,
For rustling leaves, and sighing boughs have stirred
The depths of love, no loving voice hath heard.

And here young lovers, plighted vows have given,
And sealed them with the first fond ling'ring kiss,
That hallows love, and makes earth seem a heav'n,
A sweet enchanted dream of rapt'rous bliss
When two pure hearts in confidence and truth,
Unite their joys and hopes in early youth.

These trees and shrubs, and ev'ry bush and vine,
We've watched from tiniest seed and stem; 
Why then should I not always call them mine?
For in my heart of hearts I treasure them.
No matter how neglected now they be
They were a part of my home-life to me.
 
Yes, I remember sitting there so well,
With baby in my arms and children round;
And a sweet peace hung o'er me like a spell,
While the white blossoms flutter'd to the ground;
For the young apple trees were just in bloom,
And we were breathing in their sweet perfume.

O, how the childish voices loud and clear,
Rang out in laughter and in merry song;
No wonder that to me the place is dear,
To which so many memories belong,
O, would those days but come to me again 
'Twould ease my heart of all this racking pain.

O, little ones, 'mong the long tangled grass, 
Where butter cups and clover nestled down;
Or like a shadow flitting as you pass,
To gather hollyhocks in "silken gown." 
Or pull the morning glories from the vine
Which gaily round the fav'rite tree entwine. 

And honey suckles fragrant were and fair,
And on them humming birds swung to and fro,
But something fairer, sweeter still was there;
A little maiden, singing soft and low;
O, that melodious voice we hear no more,
Save in our dreams, it echoes o'er and o'er.  

My garden! when the world was dark and cold,
And troubles gather'd thickly round my way;
I wander'd there my feelings to unfold,
'Twas there I knelt upon the ground to pray.
In that old garden thro' the maze of years
I scan life's pages blur'd with mists of tears.
E. B. W.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S INFLUENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of Manti North Ward, is
still alive and striving, with unabated energy,
to do all the good that lies in their power. Our
President, Sister Wareham,said to me "write"
and I will endeavor to acquiesce to her
wishes. The pen wielded by a competent hand,
is "mightier than the sword," but in my feeble
grasp, and with my crude ideas may not amount
to much more than a last year's bird's nest.
	I am—as I think all women should be—
much interested in the question of Woman's
emancipation. How slow men are to concede

[Column 2]

any rights to women except the right to bear
children, to wash dishes, patch, darn, mend
&c. O, I have served my time at these glorious
occupations, and know whereof I speak.
	It is customary for "the lords of creation "in
an argument with women, to quote Paul rather
extensively. Paul says if a woman lack wis-
dom" &c. Paul says "it is a shame" &c. Yes
I know it is a shame, and we feel the shame-
fulness of our position as relegated to us by
the men, and ashamed of our backwardness in
asserting the privileges God intended us to
enjoy.
	I am aware that "Paul" says a great many
good things, and now let us ask, Who was
Paul? In the first place Paul was a Roman,
second an educated lawyer, third he was a
bachelor as we learn from reading, 1st. Cor.,
7th Chap. 7th and 8th verses, fourth he tells
us in his defence before Agrippa that he was
"raised a Pharisee" in the strictest sense of the 
word, and last we know, he did not enjoy that
constant and elevating association with Jesus,
which the other apostles were privileged to en-
joy, and, which might have softened, or slightly
ameliorated his views toward women. Men also
quote Peter where he says "Wives obey your
husbands even as Sarah obeyed Abraham."
How did Sarah obey Abraham? We read that
Sarah wanted Abraham to do something that
was "very grievous" to him, and that God said
unto him, "In all that Sarah hath said unto
thee, hearken unto her voice," and Abraham 
did accordingly; comment is unnecessary. We
will pass by many of the generous, forgiving
brotherly sayings of Jesus to the women men-
tioning only two. When He tarried at the
house of Mary and Martha, (I am only a Martha
but am endeavoring to prepare myself to fill
the sphere of a Mary) Martha being relegated
to the kitchen, with a heavy task before her as
Jesus seldom traveled alone, and in all proba-
bility the company to be entertained was a
large one, and doubtless a hungry one, and
Martha being "cumbered with much serving"
asked Jesus to send Mary to assist her. And
Jesus answerd, "Martha, Martha, thou art care-
ful and troubled about many things. But one
thing is needful Mary hath chosen the better
part and it shall not be taken away from her."
Why was Mary's presence so desirable in the
parlor? Her vivacity, her sallies of wit, her
buoyant spirits, her gaiety, her sprightliness,
her dignified demeanor, the depths of her
reasoning powers, all lent a charm, when
mingled with the more sober aspect of those
devout men, that they were loth to dispense
with; in fact she was the light and life of that
august company.
	Follow Him to the cross, and were not some
of his latest expressions of thoughtful tender-
ness, addressed to the women?
	Again, at the tomb, on the morn of His
resurrection. Who was the first person ad-
dressed by Him? A woman. Who received
the first mission to "Tell the glad tidings." A
woman!  I expect in these last days to again
hear of Women being sent to "tell the glad
tidings," when He comes again.
	And let the women prepare themselves for
this glorious call, it will surely come when
Jesus does. And may it be my happy lot to
be found with my lamp trimmed and burning
is the prayer of a woman who is still in her,
		A. B. C,s.
	March 18th, 1889.


HEPHZIBAH.

1  Introduction

	"Truth is stranger than fiction."

	When the artist would paint a picture,
whether it is to be ideal, or a scene from nature,
he collects material, draws an outline sketch,
coloring it as he proceeds with his work, touch
ing it here and there, viewing it in all lights,
shading, or softening according to his fancy,
making it a study and an art. He has posi-
tive material to work with, and also his own
delicate sense of the beautiful to aid him in
his pleasant task. It is the exquisite taste and
skill, with which he combines and links to-
gether substances with thoughts, that give
beauty and tone to the picture.
	The author has no such actual helps in
beautifying and embellishing his work; it is
simply all thoughts, intermingled with fancies
or remembrances, perhaps faint as shadows.
These blended with realities form the pen-pic-
ture, but the design is only in the mind, and
all the solid work must be done by his own
brain. Ideas emanating largely from fancy
wrought into pictures of real life, but all in a
very imperceptible form, until they are, by the
delicate and diligent aid of the author, caught
in their airy flight and placed on paper by the
helpful aid of pen and ink.
	It is a picture of this kind the writer now
undertakes to sketch. The planning, design-
ing and embellishing, all has to be done in
the mind's eye ere it is engraven on paper.
The materials are only fragments culled from
memory's worn and defaced tablets, woven
together with the fine spun thread of imagina-
tion in the golden loom of fancy. If the pic-
ture be true to life, there will be some heavy
dark shading, yet here and there a ray of
sunlight with mellow tinges; occasionally a
storm will sweep over the scene and from its
very intensity will be almost perceptible;
then, too, there will be singing birds, and
babbling brooks, and murmuring seas with
tides coming in, and many things odd and
strange, yet withal some touches of pathetic
sweetness; the holy calm of summer twilight,
mooulight scenes, and stars peeping out in the
distance, like bright harbingers of future hope.
Whatever of a study the story may be, it will
be more real than ideal, more American than
foreign, more modern than antique, and the
readers interest may thus be somewhat inten-
sified.

	A village nestled down among the hills,
		With quaint old fashion'd houses low and brown;
	And picture-like some old neglected mills,
		In days gone by, the pride of all the town.

	In one of the inland towns of the old Bay
State, half a century ago, there was situated
an exceedingly romantic little village. A rural
picture, nestled down among the rocky hills in
a hollow, that had once been a thickly wooded
dell. Around it on the South and West rose
gentle undulating fields where sleek cattle
grazed, sheep nibbled, and young calves and
lambs frisked and gamboled in innocent glee,
for very joy of living. Wild flowers bloomed
in shady nooks and by the winding brooks;
northward it was sheltered by a heavy timbered
woodland, that rose steep and high; and trees
the growth of centuries stood in their proud
magnificence, the monarchs of the forest.
Hard maple, oak, birch, and pine, grew there
in great abundance, and from these leafy woods


[Column 1]

the sawmills further up among the hills were
well supplied. Eastward stretched out in the
distance, long lines and broad plains of rich
meadow and pasture lands; and afar off one
might discern the Church spires and peaked
roofs of the houses in another sleepy old town.
It was not a noisy bustling village, bnt staid
and restful. One could well fancy that old,
old echos still lingered in the hills, and the
people were too "proper" to waken them; there
was such method and precision in everything;
and the women always spoke low and gently,
in soft modulated tones. There were a few un-
pretentious houses, most of them low, and old,
and brown; an old furnace and forge, the de-
light of the village boys; but the principal
feature of the place was an old woolen mill,
situated in the centre of the little cluster of
dwellings, on a clear placid stream of water
that bounds over its rocky bed, on through the
town. Twenty years before the mill was run-
ning "full time" and paid well, employing
three score of hands; the old furnace too, was
bright and glowing then, a brawny arm up-
lifted, and the sound of the hammer at the
forge, the sparks flying hither and yon, gave
life and activity to the scene.
	The times had changed. The old settlers
whose industry and thrift, had turned the
wilderness into fields and gardens, had grown
care-worn and tired, or were sleeping in qniet
resting places in the church-yard near by.
Many of the young, ambitious sons in the
pride of manhood, had gone fortune-hunting
into new localities, where there were other lands
to subdue and make fertile; or weary of the
quiet atmosphere that brooded over their na-
tive village, had grown restless and sought the
bustle of the great, busy world, in some large
city or enterprising town, and so the old mill
stood still.
	The children wondered why the great
building was empty and forsaken, and
thought how splendid it would be to see the
large, old fashioned wheels that seemed so lazy,
turn over and over in the deep still water, send-
ing it dashing and foaming over their ponder-
ous sides. It was not strange that the children
queried and asked numberless questions, for it
was a curious old place, and rumors were afloat
no one knew from whence they came, that the
old mill was haunted, that at night witches
met there to hold high revelry. But somehow
the children did not seem to be afraid, and
were never forbidden to play there.
	Adjoining the mill was a carding machine
which still did regular duty; turning out in
great abundance the soft, white rolls that
were spun on the great wheels in all the
country houses, by the domesticated pretty
girls. Young ladies then, were quite as proud
of their skill in spinning, knitting, and house-
hold employments, as our modern mesdemoi-
selles are of their music and drawing. Tripping
back and forth, to and from the spinning wheel,
drawing out the soft, fleecy rolls, through the
pretty taper fingers, shows of one's hands as
well, and figure more, than sitting at the
piano.
	The handsome, little wheels for spinning
tow and linen, were really beautiful, and the
ideal picture of a lady spinning flax, twirling
her pretty distaff, between her slender fingers,
her dainty foot upon the treadle has been the
theme of poetry and of song. Some writers
tell us our Puritan grandmothers were very
"plain folk," but methinks they were also very
proud.
	The mill had been built at an early period,
in the settlement of the village, and in fact
had been the origin of the couutry itself; for
one by one, the people had gathered there, to
get employment in the factory Now the
owner and proprietor had retired from the busy
pursuits of active life, and the mill was allowed
to stand idle. The master was weary with

[Column 2]

many years, and in the "paternal mansion" he
sat and rested from his arduous labors. Long
after he had withdrawn from the daily voca-
tions once so diligently pursued, he still enter-
tained his friends and neighbors in the most
hospitable fashion at the old farm house. He
never wearied of reciting over and over again,
to his guests, stories of his life; how his father
came there a boy, when the country was new
and wild. His family had been large
land-owners in the city of Boston, but as the
town was enlarged, and the population in-
creased, they sold their land, piece by piece,
and came into the back woods to settle, where
there was more room and less temptation, for
a large family of boys, and subsequently they
had built the mill. He delighted in recount-
ing the hardships and privations of pioneer
life; and dwelt upon his father's hatred of the
British, and the Roman Catholics.
	No wonder he was proud of liberty, for he
had fought bravely for it in perilous places,
and had endured much privation and fatigue.
To him freedom was dearer than life; to ob-
tain that precious boon he had faced death at
the point of the bayonet. His favorite phrase,
which he very frequently repeated to his child-
ren and friends, was one familiar to all Ameri-
can citizens, "Taxation, without representation
is tyranny." The honors conferred upon him,
he considered fairly earned, and was proud of
his handsome uniform, and heavy clumsy
sword, which he always exhibited on training
days. His military air on such occasions quite
awed the children, and they looked upon him
with a degree of reverence mingled with en-
thusiasm, for what heart does not beat a little
faster, when the drums beat and the soldiers
parade, that has the blood of the patriots in
its veins. But the most interesting of all the
old Major's stories, especially to the young
folks, was how his father fell in love with the
daughter of a General in the British army;
and as he expressed it, his magnificent figure,
his manliness and courage, made him master
of the situation, and he won his sweetheart,
in despite of the high sense of filial duty she
entertained, and her aristocratic father's 
remonstrances. Differences were cast aside, 
and distinctions leveled by the magical charm
of true love, and when the war was over, and
the armies of the king had been vanquished,
the haughty General returned to his native
shore, leaving his only daughter, the heir to
his wealth, and the pride of his ancestral home,
with her unsophisticated "Yankee" husband.
	The officer's daughter had received superior
educational advantages, and her accomplish-
ments were far beyond those of the country
girls among whom her lot had been cast; but
she never manifested the least consciousness of
the fact; she had married the man of her
choice, and gracefully adapted herself to the
habits and customs of the people, who were
from henceforth to be her people. A genuine
lady born and bred, she assumed no rights or
privileges more than her neighbor; but bore
herself modestly as wife and mother, honoring
the position she had gladly accepted.
	She played the harp and sung like
a bird; and her costly silks and
creamy laces, which she wore with such an air
of refinement, were the admiration of the
ladies all the country round. It is need-
less to recount her good deeds, her heart was
generous, and her lord was rich, and their
bounties were liberally dispensed.
	It was during their young married life that
the old factory was built, and the village
grew, "in a manner speaking," and prosperity
and success domestic, and financial, attended
the happy couple. He was tall and strong,
and she was so petite that she could standwith-
out stooping under his outstretched arm.
	[TO BE CONTINUED.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ADDRESS TO Y. L. M. I. A.

	Dear sisters and co-workers.—With much
interest I sit down to express some of my feel-
ings and thoughts; I hope all my sisters feel
well in attending their meetings and all associa-
tions, trying to do all they can. I can truly
say that I feel well in attending my meetings,
and feel to do all in my power to help roll on
this work.
	We should not go to any meeting, Sunday
or Fast-day, or what ever meeting it may be,
just for the sake of going, but go with the in-
tention to learn, to bear our testimonies, and
profit by the good counsel given us from time
to time. Let us cultivate the spirit of love
towards each other.
	I fully believe the young sisters of this ward
are striving to do all the good they can, and
we should continue to strive for the upbuild-
ing of the kingdom of God. If we would
but reflect and think of the great work we are
engaged in, we would appreciate our blessings
more. See how the out-siders are gathering
around us, we do not know how long we shall
be permitted to worship in peace, but let us
have faith in the Lord, and keep his command-
ments; be kind to our parents who have gone
through so much tribulation, driven from
house to house, from place to place; slept with
their clothes on for fear of mobs etc., and con-
sider how the Prophet Joseph and others have
been persecuted for the sake of their religion,
we may come to this, but let us trust in the
Lord, put away the follies of the world, and
set our minds to doing good, to usefulness, and
try to do things that we know are pleasing to
the Lord; helping our president and counselors,
so that our associations may be a success in
very deed.
		Your sister in the covenant.
			ELNORA COX.
	Secretary of the West Hooper Association.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Rev. Mr. Pitblado spoke on woman suffrage
in Unity Hall, Hartford, Conn., Tuesday, May 14.
	It is reported that there are now six women
police officers in London, and seven more are
to be appointed.
	The Connecticut House of Representatives
has defeated the proposed conititutional amend-
ment striking the word "male" out of the consti-
tution.
	Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland is going
abroad in June, and is said to have accepted a
position in a young women's boarding school
in London.
	 Queen Christina, of Spain,, has promised
her support to the anti-slavery campaign in
Africa. The Spanish Society has work near
its own doors, as slaves of both sexes are
brought from the interior of North Africa and
sold in the open markets of Morocco.
	Glorious news from Michigan! The muni-
cipal woman suffrage bill passed the House of
Representatives on Wednesday, May 15, at
3.15 P. M., by 25 majority. A special dispatch
from Mrs. May S. Knaggs gives the vote as
yeas, 58; nays, 33. There is great rejoicing in
Lansing over this signal victory.—Ex.
	"Mrs. Emily Pfeiffer's new volume of poems,
"Flowers of the Night," the publication of
which was interrupted by the stroke which fell
upon her in the death of her husband in Jan-
uary last," was probably issued in London last
month. "It is known that Mr. Pfeiffer, who was
a man of varied accomplishments, was virtu-
ally the editor of his wife's works, which
passed out of her hands into his almost as soon
as committed to paper. In accordance with his
wishes, the issue of "Flowers of the Night" is
resumed by his widow at the earliest possible
moment."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IF ONLY.

Gone, yes gone forever,
	To another, brighter home;
And I shall see her never
	Though o'er the world I roam.
If only, oh, if only
	For one moment, I might gaze
Through the curtains of the heavens
	Just to gaze upon her face.
If only, oh if only
	The heavens could be torn,
Just for one moment's gladness,
	While I gaze upon her form.
If only, oh, if only
	I could see, through yon bright sky,
My own, my lost beloved,
	Oh, how gladly would I die.

Gone, yes gone, and never
	Shall I see my loved one's face.
And yet beside me ever
	Seems her spirit, full of grace.
If only, oh, if only
	I believed it could be true
And my darling's soul was near me
	As I roam the wide world through.
If only, oh, if only
	All the dreary, lonely days,
Her spirit were beside me
	Casting forth its sainted rays.
If only, oh, if only
	I believed her soul was by,
I could live and still be happy
	And I should not long to die.

		HENRI.


DISCOURAGED.

Discouraged; discouraged, when life is so short?
	O, be not discouraged to-day!
The road may be wearisome, thorny, and rough,
	But it leads to a heavenly way.
There is sorrow and heart-ache enough to endure,
	There is waiting, and mourning, and death;
There are storm clouds that darken the sun's healing
	rays,
There are flowers that fade at a breath.

There are hearts that are broken, and desolate homes,
	And idols that prove to be clay,
But beyond the dark pathway is heaven's sweet rest—
	There is joy at the end of the way.

Though you see not your God in the darkness and
		storm,
	In the cleft of the rock still abide,
And wait; when the tempest of anguish is past
	You will hear His "still voice" at your side.

Then be not discouraged, nor falter in life,
	Faint not and you surely will win;
Put on the whole armor and stand to your post,
	And help fight the battle with sin.	

No matter though feet have grown tired in the way
	And hands seem as heavy as lead,
Though flowers have faded in earth's summer time
	And bright hopes lie withered and dead,

The flowers that have perished shall bloom in the
		skies,
	Tired hands the palm branches bear,
And they who through  "great tribulation" have come
	The spotless white raiment shall wear.

What matter to you if earth's music is gone
	And the heart-strings are ready to break. 
For earth's broken chords shall be gathered in heaven,
	And rapturous strains shall awake.

So tired? Oh, yes! but look up and away,
	The journey is not very long;
The mourning and tears will all end by and by
	In a shout of victorious song.

Then be not discouraged, but take up your cross,
	And bear it in patience to-day;
The steep, rocky path ends in glory beyond—
	There is joy at the end of the way,

		MRS. H. F. THOMAS.
	Hearth and Hall.


[Column 1]

PRIMARIES AND MAY DAY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I submit a few items from this far away place.
Thinking they may be of some interest to some
of your many readers. Our Societies, Pri-
maries, etc., in this part of the country, are, so
far as I know, in a prosperous condition.
	Sister Hannah Romney, who was set apart
by Brother Teasdale, two and a half years ago
to take charge of the primary in Juarez,
served well and faithfully in that capacity uutil
last March, when she resigned on account of
moving away, when Sister Margaret Seevy was
called to fill her place, she and Sister Annie
Ikonsen having been able counselors to Sister
Romney, much good has been accomplished,
and quite an interest taken, especially through
the past winter since the efficient services of
Sister Victoria Pratt have been secured to
teach the children to sing.
	The parents as well as the children gave ex-
pression to the love and respect felt for their
late president; and their appreciation of her
faithful labors, by giving her a very enjoyable
surprise party just prior to her leaving; it was
on the 15th, of March. When nearly all the
town, both old and young, had assembled at the
school house, to witness a school exhibition the
closing day of the term; the exercises passed
off in a very creditable manner to both teacher
and pupils; at the close of which the people
were invited to stay; the house was hastily
cleared, and two long tables the length of the
room set, at which 175 sat down to a bounteous
repast, prepared by a few of our energetic
sisters, including the present officers of the
Primary. It proved to be a genuine surprise,
and as Sister Romney expressed herself there
was one feature in particular which just suited
her feelings viz., the children were all seated
first and the grown people waited on them, and
afterward comprised the second table, which
usually falls to the lot of the little ones. The
table was adorned with a very nice bouquet
and wreath, made for Sister Romney and after
dinner it was presented by some of the little
girls to their late President.
	Since moving to Cliff Ranch, a small branch
of the Juarez Ward, she has been called on to
preside over the little Primary of that place,
with Sister Martha Williams of the adjoining
ranch as assistant, and Sister Victoria Pratt,
who also moved to the same place, to resume
her good labor among the children, so that at
present it is prospering nicely, and is attended
by every woman and child in the little settlement
except the large boys who can't be spared from
the field, and the Sunday School includes all
the men, women, and children, as the parents
seem to realize the necessity of setting a good
example before their children in these little
nooks and corners. A Primary has been or-
ganized at Cave Valley with Sister Olive
Moffet, President, and a Relief Society for our
little settlements combined, with Sister Dora
Pratt as President.
	On "May Day," nearly all of the sisters, and
children of all sizes, with a few of the brethren,
who could spare the time at this busy season,
from Cave Valley and Cliff Ranch, met half
way between the two places, at Williams
Ranch, where they were cordially greeted by
the three families living there, and a very
pleasant time was spent in the pine grove under
the supervision of the Primary presidents.
The time was spent in various games and
amusements, picnic, songs, dialogues and reci-
tations, and crowning of the May Queen, Miss
Alta Williams, with a garland of nature's
sweetest of offerings, beautiful violets, daisies,
and other sweet white flowers with every shade 
of green. Our celebration was a grand suc-
cess as a day of enjoyment. The only disap-
pointment being that music did not arrive 
in time to finish up with a dance.

[Column 2]

	 I understand that a nice time was also en-
joyed at Juarez on this day.
		I am as every your well wisher.
			A CORRESPONDENT.
	Sierra Madre Mountains, Mexico, May 9, '89.


W. S. A. OF UTAH.

TO THE GENERAL READERS OF THE
EXPONENT.
	I am pleased to note the steps that have been
taken by the women of Zion. It denotes in the
near future a more thorough understanding
with the women of this nation, and, I may say
of other nations; we have long been misunder-
stood, but, by being connected with them
through their Association, it is bound to break
the barier between us, and, an interest, if not
an investigating spirit will toke possession of
them at least in a greater or less degree. Al-
though I do not think it will materially alter
affairs with us as Latter-day Saints (unless it
is to restore to us our franchise,) for as a rule
the "Mormon Women" enjoy a freedom of
speech,and in no place are women curtailed by
"the monster man" as little as in Utah, and
with but few exceptions they feel they have the
sustenance of their husbands, fathers and
brothers. Of course there is occasionally an
exception to this rule, where men think a wo-
man's place is in the kitchen, and extends no
farther than the chip yard, but in sickness, or
absence from home, that self-same woman is
expected to take up those duties and carry them
along as smoothly and intelligently as if her
Leige Lord had always taken a delight in
counseling and instructing her. The majority
of the "Mormon" women have taken but very
little interest in political affairs, the day is nigh
when they will have to inform themselves;
there is a great field for improvement, for
wherever these associations are organized they
will necessarily have to study in order to fill
their positions and keep up with the times.
We will no doubt note a marked difference in
a few years where these organizations are es-
tablished and where they are not.
	I see no reason why the "Mormon" women
should not be snccessful in this new field,surely
you cannot find a more intelligent set of women,
and with study, and determination, and the
Lord to quicken their understanding, there is
no obstacle but what they can surmount.
Sisters let us go to with an energy aud zeal
worthy of such a cause and add to our store-
house of knowledge, and not have it said of us
we had a chance to benefit humanity but did
not avail ourselves of the opportunity.
	Yours in the cause of "Woman's Rights"
		JOSIE E. CHILDS.
	Orangeville, Utah.


MAY DAY HYDE PARK.

	The Primary Association of Hyde Park,
Cache Co., had a May Day celebration
Wednesday, May 1st. A full house assem-
bled; the children and young ladies arrayed
in white and flowers, made a fine picture.
The singing and music were pleasantly ren-
dered. Of course they had their May Queen,
who carried her honors, and dispensed her
favors with graceful dignity. A few words
of approval to children, and thanks and coun-
sel to parents were spoken by Counselor Emma
Pike and Mrs. E. L. Crowther of Logan.
	The closing remarks were made by their
Bishop. A lovely dance was given the child-
ren in the afternoon, and one in the evening
for the older ones. Much credit is due Presi-
dent Kirby and her assistauts. The brass
band turned out, and made such good music,
that even the old folks wanted to dance.
	Reported by,
		E. L. CROWTHER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 1, 1889.


[Column 1]

THE WOMAN'S PAPER.

	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT was issued on the
first day of June, 1872—Seventeen years ago—the
day being chosen for its coming forth in honor of
the birthday of Brigham Young who was always
its staunch friend and advocate. He expressed
himself on one occasion to the writer as wishing
it to be kept in its original form, and referred to
the Millennial Star, saying he had always been
glad that the size and form of the paper had been
kept the same, and he wished that to be an ex-
ample for the EXPONENT, or words to that effect.
We are aware that there are many of our readers
who view this matter differently, and have been
anxious to see the homely little paper in better
dress and style, and in the form and keeping of a
magazine of literature. But the EXPONENT is for
the benefit, education and development of thought
of all the sisters in the Church, and to make it
correspond to the needs of the largest number,
and adapt it to their conditions and circumstances
has ever been the object of the editor. We admit
that it was our wish to make the EXPONENT a
weekly, and keep the price the same, but that, we
found at present, to be impracticable, and there-
fore decided to reduce the price in order to in-
crease the circulation which we hope may be a
successful venture, and feel that it ought to be,
as it is the only paper in the Territory published
at a dollar a year. Also at present, the only
woman's paper.
	Since the woman's paper has first been pub-
lished it has certainly been a power and an influ-
ence for good among the people. Many are the
testimonies we have received of its doing a good
missionary work, outside in the world, and in
many a lonely cottage in the new settlements and
colonies it has carried joy and comfort with it, and
it has certainly been the means of developing much
talent among our sisters. There are those men
and women, who are now among the ablest authors
in the Territory who published their first efforts in
the EXPONENT. And there are many important
reasons why it should be better sustained. It
contains the history of the organizations of the
women of the Church, and in a great measure the
history of women themselves, and it also em-
bodies the expression of the thoughts, feelings
and convictions of the majority of the sisters.
	The Mormon women are considerably known
through the EXPONENT. It tells of them, and
speaks forcibly in the hands of the strangers.
Much truth has been inculcated through its
pages, and from strangers who have obtained
copies while visiting here, we have often received
letters of inquiry asking for further information.
Whatever awakens thoughts upon "Mormonism"
is assuredly worth cultivating. The humblest
sister has the opportunity to bear her testimony

[Column 2]

to the world in its columns; and this written
testimony cannot be in vain. It is a portion of
good seed sown, and perchance some of it may
fall in rich soil, and spring up and bear fruit to
the honor and glory of God.
	The cultivation of literature in every age of the
world and among every people is one of the chief
sources of refinement and advancement. Time
was when it was not considered proper for women
to edit papers or write for them; but that day has
past, and at the present time there are quite a
number of papers, and solely devoted to Woman's
Work and Advancement. And every person who
desires to see the women of Zion make rapid pro-
gress in knowledge and intelligence, should re-
member that much of this is done through the
press. There is far too little attention given to
home reading and home conversation upon topics
of interest. If much more time was devoted to
educational culture, and much less to frivolous
games and nonsensical talk, the wisdom of this
generation would be increased, and more lofty
and sublime ideas find expression, in language
that would be exalting and purifying in its tones.
	With the new volume of the EXPONENT, let us
hope for an increase of interest in woman's de-
partment of literature, and the sisters' aid in sus-
taining that, which is for their own special benefit
and advantage, and to give them scope and op-
portunity to express views, opinions, and truths,
on all the variety of subjects that are suited to
their tastes, inclinations and circumstances.
	We trust the Presidents of the Relief Society
in all the several branches, will use their influence
to extend the circulation, and help the agents to
perform their duties in this respect, and if they
do, it will be an easy matter for all concerned.
Many hands make light work.


PRIMARY CHILDRENS' DAY.

	The first day of June is a sort of red letter day
among the Latter-day Saints, on account of its
having been the day when Brigham Young was
born. In his life time his family were in the habit
of celebrating it in some way in which all could
participate, and since his death some recognition
of it has been made by them, when it was at all
practicable, to bring the family together.
	For a few years past the Primary Associations
have made some sort of demonstration on that day
throughout the Stakes of Zion, and it has become
so general as to be spoken of as the Primary
Childrens' Day. It is a very proper thing for
them to make this a general holiday even in pre-
ference to May Day as in this climate the first of
May is almost too cold to admit of climbing the
hills for wifd-flowers or having any out-door exer-
cises. The firsts of June is usually warm and
bright and the flowers are in the height of bloom
and perfection of sweetness.
	This year the children in Salt Lake Stake have
been disappointed in their day on account of the
Young Men's having appointed their annual
conference to commence then and engaging the
services of two or three hundred of the children
under Brother Stephens training to sing for them.
However they will not be deprived of the pleasure
of a day in Liberty Park as it has been arranged
to gather the children of Salt Lake Stake there
on the following Saturday, June 8th, a band of
music will be engaged to play, and there will be
exercises and games for their amusement, and it
will no doubt be a gala day to the little ones.
President Ellen C. Clawson and her Counselors
and a select committee will have general supervi-
sion and will spare no pains to make it.a complete
success. The different Primary Associations must
provide suitable persons to take special charge of
the children so that there will be no danger from
carelessness or accidents, and the President and
her committee will be relieved of any anxiety in
reference to these matters.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	We have also received an exquisite bouquet of
mountain wild flowers that gladdened the eye and
brought up many tender memories. These were
the gift of Miss Annie Christiansen of Farming-
ton.
	We acknowledge with much pleasure the gift of
a box of choice flowers and among them a perfect
fig on its stem, from Mrs. M. O. Kelting of
Southern California. The perfume was so intense
that its sweetness filled the house. Many thanks
for the delicate favor.
	On Tuesday 7th, of May in company with
President Zina D. H. Young of this City, and
Sisters Sarah S. Richards and Hattie C. Brown
of Ogden we visited Hooper, Weber County, to
attend a meeting of the Relief Society, Mrs.
Adeline Belnap presiding. There was a good at-
tendance of the sisters in the vicinity though the
day was disagreeable which very likely hindered
many from coming, We dined at Bishop Belnap's
and enjoyed the visit there very much on account
of meeting there one of the illustrious women of
the early days in the Church, Sister Mary Knight
widow of Vincent Knight mentioned in the Book
of Doctrine and Covenants. We also had an in-
teresting conversation about Mexico with Brother
Stowell who drove the carriage over from Ogden
with Sisters Richards and Brown and took us to
and from Hooper Switch to our destination.
	On the 24th of May Bishop Millen Atwood of
the 13th Ward, attained the age of seventy-two
years. And in his honor, the young people of
the Ward under the care and management of his
Counselor, Nelson Empey, prepared a party for
him; and all was arranged so quietly, that it
proved a perfect surprise, and the affair was in-
deed a complete success, and very enjoyable.
The tables were handsomely decorated with 
flowers, and the refreshments were dainty and
tempting. President Wilford Woodruff and Pre-
sident Geo. Q. Cannon were present, and each
made a few congratulatory remarks. Apostle F.
D. Richards pronounced the blessing upon the
food, which was gracefully served by the young
ladies of the ward. There had been a programme
prepared for the evening including an address by
Dr. Barney, which we will give in our next issue.
Meantime, the EXPONENT extends hearty  con-
grattulations to the venerable Bishop, with many
happy birthday anniversaries in the future.
	We have examined the work entitled "Treasure
House of Useful Knowledge," compiled and
edited by Henry B. Scrammell, assisted by experts
in every deparment. It most assuredly is mul-
turn in parvo, and would be a most useful book in
the household. It is divided into six general
departments, which include specific, brief instruc-
tion in a sort of practical way. First, Chemistry
and Health; Second, Domestic Life; Third, Farm
Interests; Fourth, Mechanical Arts; Fifth, Mer-
cantile Life; Sixth, Refinements. Under these
several headings will be found much valuable in-
formation, given in a way that will perhaps save
one desiring to look up the matter, going over
half a dozen volumes. In these days, when time
seems so important a factor, a book of this kind
ought to sell well. Prices. $3.50; plain cloth
binding; $4.00; gilt cloth binding; $4.75, half 
morroco, library. The book contains 1,616 pages,
and is in excellent plain type for reading. H. A.
Hess has the general agency for the Territory.
	On Friday, April 26th, 1889, at 4.p.m. the an-
nual meeting of the Primary Association of the
13th Ward was held in the Assembly Rooms.
Miss Kate Wells presiding. Singing, "The
Childrens Song Prayer," and Bishop Atwood
offered the opening prayer; children sang "Song
of the Seasons." Minutes read, and accepted.


Programme, "Address to the Primary" Johnnie
Merrill. Song, Irene Merrill. Questions on the
first Primary answered by Ray Grant; Essay on
"Truth," Charlie Peterson.  Song, Agnes Kenner,
"Rockaby Baby," accompaniment by Miss Strom-
berg. Questions asked by Miss Agnes McDonald
answered by the children. Recitation Lettie
Carter, "Let the old cat die." Song, Lilie and
May Burt. Dialogue "The Mormon Missionary,"
Misses Aggie McDonald, May Merrill, Charlie
A. Wells, Gertie Peterson C. Reading and Victor
Stromberg. Remarks were made by Sisters
Lilie Freeze, Ellen C. Clawson, Zina D. H.
Young. The children sang, "We are the children
of the Saints," then brief addresses from Sisters
B. W. Smith, E. B. Wells and Relief C. Atwood.
Sang, "Let us all speak kind words to each other,"
dismissed with prayer by the Bishop. There has
been a very decided improvement in this Associa-
tion during the last few years, and the President
and her aids are deserving of great credit for their
zeal and earnestness in training the little ones
in the paths of duty and obedience and correct
principles. A noble and grand labor for the young
women of Zion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

KEEP US FROM FALLING.

	Our Savior says "Whatever is highly esteemed
among men is an abomination in the sight of
God." And to "Seek first for the kingdom of
heaven and all other things shall be added there-
to. For what shall it profit a man if he shall gain
the whole world, and lose his own soul? Or what
shall a man give in exchange for his soul?"
	Surrounded, and mixed up with the world aud
its temptations which are calculated to draw the
mind, and affections away from that path which
the Lord has marked out, into forbidden ones that
lead down to eternal misery, and to endure the
scoffs and derisions of the proud, be hated of
all men, persecuted, imprisoned, and slain for
seeking to live the religion of Christ, requires a
strength and determination unknown among the
modern professors of Christianity. The Latter-
day Saints have learned that to be saved requires
something more than merely to believe on Jesus,
that faith without works is dead, and also that it
is a life-time work to become fit for the kingdom
of heaven. Though the cost may be taken into
consideration by the converts, previous to going
down into the waters of baptism, it is impossible
for them to realize the extent of the trials, and sac-
rifices which the Lord will require at their hands
before they can become pure and spotless in His
sight, to be fitted and prepared to enter into His
rest. More particularly is this the case when they
are filled with the first love of the gospel. For
the Holy spirit makes one feel that no trial or
temptation can be too great for them to meet and
overcome. But in the day of adversity, when
that spirit is withdrawn, when they are over-
whelmed in the darkest clouds of temptation, and
heavy waves of sorrow and tribulation roar and
dash with hopeless fury upon the frail and help-
less beings, mistrusting themselves, and fearing,
and trembling lest they be swept away, then they
begin to realize more fully what it costs to be a
saint.
	Those who are firm in the faith know that God
who created every living thing, and planned the
redemption and restoration of every soul, can
willingly trust Him, knowing that He will place
no more upon them than He will give them grace
to bear, and that He tries them only according to
their capacity to endure. He has commissioned
angels who will intercede for His children and
ever stand beside them in the hour of danger, and
affliction, unless their acts are such as to grieve
and drive them away. He has given to all their
free agency, and it is every one's privilege to act
upon that agency. We all have an individual
work to perform, and it is to our own interest

[Column 2]

that we work to this end, and bear in mind, this
fact that our Maker has ordained, and made us
subject to the weaknesses of the flesh to keep us
humble. And that it is not for one to boast above
another, or say "I am more righteous than thou."
For though we may be comparatively free from
certain faults that we see in a brother or sister, it
is not improbable that we are given to just as
great, and may be greater ones. And this should
cause us to examine, and dig deep into our own
hearts for those evils, which perchance are hidden
from our sight while they are being freely dis-
cussed by our neighbors. Remembering that
though we do right in all other things and lack
charity we will be rejected by our Father in the
day of His coming, We may well ask how much
longer are we to be chastened to bring us to that
oneness which is required,and must exist through-
out the length and breadth of the church of God
in fulfilment of the great and marvelous plan of
salvation, and redemption, which we are looking
for in this the last dispensation of the fulness of
times. These are things which should absorb the
thoughts, and stir up the minds of all professing
the name of Latter-day Saint, especially by those
who have been privileged to set their feet upon this
soil, to make homes among these mountain fast-
nesses, which the Lord preserved for His people
as a safe gathering place for those who wish to
build up Zion. Those who have not yet reached
the true standard themselves should be careful in
condemning another, and realize that we are not
all constituted alike, having been born and be-
gotten under circumstances as various as are our
features, or as one star in the heavens above us
varies from the other, and upon whom none but
the Great Ruler of the universe is able to pass a
correct and just judgment. Few are capable of
being merciful as He is merciful toward the weak
and erring who, because they have wandered, or
perhaps fallen into some snare set for their feet,
are by some deemed to be past all redemption.
Many who deem themselves saints would treat
them with disdain, and even call in question those
who would act the part of the true Samaritan.
Like the Pharisees who questioned the propriety
of Christ's sitting at meat with publicans and
sinners when He answered "Them that be whole
need no physician, but they that are sick."
	This classification, which we see growing in the
midst of the Latter-day Saints, is among the
stumbling blocks in the way of the weak, whose
faith has not been sufficiently established in the
truth to cling to it, and to the behests of the Al-
mighty regardless of the acts committed by mem-
bers of His church; and this is another reason
for increased diligence on their part in seeking
for His Spirit, and that perfect knowledge that
will enable them to discern the difference between
the works of God, and those of man. The Saints
are to be tried in all things, in prosperity as well
as adveristy, and those whose carnal desires sur-
pass their love of the true riches may be gratified,
but to their condemnation. "Where much is
given much is required." I have known many
who once rejoiced in this Gospel, but as soon as
the sun of prosperity began to shine upon them,
they forgot the Giver and were lifted up in pride,
and became slothful servants, and apostacy was
generally the result. "The earth is the Lord's
and the fulness thereof," and He has promised
to all those who will seek first the kingdom of
heaven, that all other things shall be added thereto.
He, in kindness, has witheld from His people
what in their youth and inexperience would
doubtless have proven the destruction of the
majority, as was shown in the start, at Kirtland,
Ohio. "No man can serve two masters, for he
will either hate the one and love the other, or else
he will hold to the one and despise the other; ye
cannot serve God and mammon." Where His
bounties have been used properly, to the building
up of His kingdom, feeding and clothing, and

[Column 3]

making the poor to rejoice, etc., instead of seek-
ing self-aggrandisement, hoarding or squandering
it on unworthy objects, to the gratification of un-
holy lusts, His blessings upon such have been
richly poured out, temporally and spiritually. I
have known a few of this class, and I have known
not a few who might have gathered around them
an abundance of the good things of this earth,
but desired rather to spend their lives and their
all, laboring in the Lord's vineyard bringing souls
into His kingdom.
	The wealth of this world cannot bring happiness
as it has proven to thousands. Though Dame
Fortune is often prodigal. she is most fickle, and
as we read in the good book, "it is an easy thing,
in the spirit of the Lord, on a sudden to make a
poor man rich. Wealth and all things else are
from God. Many kings have sat down upon the
ground, and one that was never thought of hath
worn a crown." Nobility and excellence are to be
admired, and should be honored wherever
found; and equally odious is the class whose
loftiest ambition is to "shine in society," and
conceitedly rank themselves peers, because their
spoke in the wheel of time happens to be upwards,
and feel themselves superior in ratio. And the
mind that has become so warped and contracted,
as to measure a person's worth by his worldly
advantages and possessions, and feel it condecency
or bemeaning to associate with a brother or sister
because of their lowly circumstances here, they
will hardly be prepared to dwell with the Redeemer
of the world, who was of the poorest and the most
despised and hated,during his earthly pilgrimage,
and said to his disciples, "Blessed are the poor in
spirit for theirs is the kingdom of heaven."
"Blessed are the meek for they shall inherit the
earth." I have met many in the lowliest walks,
in my associations through life, whose brightness
and superior intelligence demanded my greatest
respect and admiration. They were often found
in possession of superior knowledge their educa-
tion being far in advance of those whose groveling
minds soar no higher than this world with its
fleeting and innumerable shams, and mockeries,
caring only for its flattery and their present ag-
grandizement.
	There will be found at the close of this short
career, some wonderful and unlooked for dis-
closures. Many a one who has appeared in the
humblest garbs and been looked down upon as
unworthy the notice of the illustrious ones who
judge of one's qualifications by their outward
adornments, will be found in positions before the
throne of God that will cause a sensation similar
to that of the Jews when they learn that Jesus,
whom they held in scorn and derision and cruci-
fied was truly the Christ.
	The following extracts from a "Revelation
given through Joseph the Seer at Kirtland Ohio,
June, 1831" are profitable for all of us "Harken
O, ye my people who profess my name, saith the
Lord your God, for behold, mine anger is kindled
against the rebellious, and they shall know mine
arm and mine indignation, in the day of visitation
and of wrath upon the nations.
	"And he that will not take up his cross and fol-
low me, and keep my commandments, the same
shall not be saved.
	"Behold thus saith the Lord unto my people
you have many things to do and to repent of for
behold, your sins have come up unto me, and are
not pardoned because you seek to counsel in your
own ways.
	"And your hearts are not satisfied, and ye obey
not the truth, but have pleasure in unrighteous-
ness.
	"Wo unto you rich men, that will not give your
substance to the poor, for your riches will canker
your souls; and this shall be your lamentation
in the day of visitation, and of judgment, and of
indignation,—the harvest is past, the summer is
ended, and my soul is not saved!


"Wo unto you poor men, whose hearts are not
broken, whose spirits are not contrite, and whose
bellies are not satisfied, and whose hands are not
stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods,
whose eyes are full of greediness, who will not
labor with your own hands!
	"But blessed are the poor who are pure in heart
whose hearts are broken, and whose spirits are
contrite, for they shall see the kingdom of God,
coming in power and great glory unto their deliver-
ance, for the fatness of the earth shall be theirs.
For behold, the Lord shall come, and His re-
compense shall be with Him, and He shall re-
ward every man, and the poor shall rejoice.
	And their generations shall inherit the earth
from generation to generation, forever and ever.
And now I make an end of speaking unto you.
Even so, Amen.
		HELEN M. WHITNEY.


[-]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WASATCH AND UTAH.

	On Wednesday morning, May 15, President
Zina D. H. Young, and Sister Lucy B. Young,
left this city by the morning train, to attend the
conference of the Relief Society of Wasatch
Stake at Heber City. They went by way of
Pleasant Grove and across to Charleston where
they arrived the same evening. Next morning,
Thursday, 16, drove to Heber City, accompanied
by the Bishop, and others from Charleston, in-
cluding Sister Emma Brown, who presided at the
Conference. President Hatch, Bishops and other
brethren were present; and much to their surprise
and pleasure, Mrs. Willmirth East a dear and old
friend and acquaintance, who is now President of
the Relief Society of St. Joseph Stake of Arizona.
There was a good feeling and spirit, and sisters
Zina and Lucy Young enjoyed themselves very
much, and felt that they were warmly welcomed
by the people.
	The following day the Primary Association had
their Stake conference in the forenoon, and the
Young Ladies' in the afternoon. Saturday, the 18,
the sisters went to Wallsburg and met with the
Relief Society; then back to Charleston and held
another meeting, returning across the valley to
Provo, where Sister Lucy B. remained a day or
two.
	Monday morning Sister Mary John, President
of the Relief Society of Utah Stake, with her
counselor Sister Manila M. Daniels, accompanied
by President Zina D. H. Young, started for
Pleasant Grove early, and held meeting with the
Relief Society at 10 a.m., then went on to Ameri-
can Fork and met with the Relief Society in the
afternoon, and under the auspices of the Young
People in the evening. In the morning, May, 21,
Bishop George Halladay and a company of
American Fork folks, four carriage loads, drove
to Alpine, where a meeting was held with the
Relief Society, and back to Lehi, the same even-
ing, meeting in the Relief Society Hall. The
next morning, Wednesday, May 22, the party
went over to Cedar Fort and met with the Relief
Society there.
	This completed the tour through the settlements
south of Provo in the Utah Stake, and at each
place, there was every manifestation of welcome
and joy, that could have been anticipated, and the
meetings were well attended. Also in Wasatch
Stake, there was a good and kindly feeling mani-
fested, and the sisters have returned well and in
excellent spirits.


OUR CHILDREN.

	Poor, tired mother! I know how worn out
you feel when evening comes. The thought of
resting a few moments, without hearing the least
noise from the little ones, who have required your
constant attention all day long, almost prompts


you to say "yes" when two or three pleading
voices unite, in asking if they may go outside to
play, just a little while.
	Well,—Say "yes" but add, "I will go with you
my darlings, we will have a nice little walk, and
then come home and go to bed."
	"Oh! I'm too tired for that," you think. But,
think again. It will cost you less time, and
strength and anxiety, to go with them for a stroll,
than either to hunt them up and get them all in
again, if they go out without you; or to get them
quieted and off to bed, without a few moments
recreation in the fresh, open air, since their hearts
are set on it, and their natures require it.
	Go out with them; it will do you more good
than lying on the sofa, and wondering what will
occur to make "Willie" think of how late it is
growing, and that he ought to come in. Nearly
every home has its "Willie," does it not? And
"Willie" of course, is the "Wild Lamb" of the
flock. (The Latter-day Saints do not rear "Black
Sheep" in their precious human folds.)
	Have I convinced you that you had better leave
work, rest, and even the half hour's reading you
have been anticipating all day, and go with your
children and help them to enjoy themselves and
"be good?" If I have, now listen to the sweet
music of the glad, young voices, cheering and ex-
tolling your kindness and wisdom. You are more
than paid already, for any seeming sacrifice you
may have made for their sake.
	There is nothing like entering into the child-
ren's sports with them, to make them feel that they
have your sympathies, no other way of
controling them so entirely by force of love.
	I know some children who have their "Play
Evening" at home, regularly once a week.. This
supplies so many wants which would otherwise
be sadly felt. Always when occasion will per-
mit, the mother is with them during the entire
evening. If circumstances unavoidably occur, to
occupy the mother's time in some other way, the
verdict of the children is, "We haven't had a bit
of a nice time, because you were not with us."
Oh! mothers. Be with your little ones all you
can, while you may. It will pay you better than
any other business you can possibly engage in.
		LULA.


[Column 1]

W. S. A. IN JUAB COUNTY.﻿

	In answer to a call made by a few of the
most influential women of Juab County, for a
meeting to be held, a large number of citizens
both ladies and gentlemen, assembled at the
tabernacle, Nephi, at 2 p.m., March 11, 1889,
to organize a Suffrage Association. Miss L.
A. Schofield nominated Mrs. M. Pitchforth to
act as chairman. Seconded by several ladies,
after which the motion was put and carried.
On motion of Mrs. A. L. Bigler, Mrs M. E.
Teasdale was nominated Secretary of the meet-
ing; seconded and carried. Mrs. S. A. An-
drews then offered prayer. The Secretary then
read the call. Miss L. A. Schofield was then
elected President by unanimous vote. Mrs.
E. B. Bryan was elected First Vice Presidenst
Mrs. M. E. Neff Second Vice President; Mr;.
M. A. Cazier third Vice President; Miss
Louie Udall, Secretary; Mrs. Annie L. Atkin,
Recording, and Corresponding Secretary; Mrs.
L. A. Hartley, Treasurer.
	The following named ladies were elected by
unanimous vote, to act as an Executive Board:
Mrs. M. A. Grover, chairman; Mrs. M: E.
Whitmore, Mrs. Sarah Abbott, Mrs. W. H.
Jones, Miss Emma Adams, Mrs. Mercy Wright,
nd Mrs. Julia Paxman. Miss Louie Udall
read the Constitution of the National Woman
Suffrage Association; after which a motion was
made that the same be adopted. Seconded
and carried by unanimous vote. Mrs. Annie
Atkins read the By-Laws of the Salt Lake

[Column 2]

Woman Suffrage Association. Read by
sections and adopted separately.
	After the organization was effected, Mr. F.
W. Chappell addressed the assembly. He
said: "You have been called together to-day,
to organize a Suffrage Association. The sub-
ject under discussion, is one of vital importance,
to be entrusted with the Elective Franchise.
The ladies of America have more to do than
any one else, with the shaping and moulding
of the character of their children. The ladies
have always been true to any trust reposed in
them. If women voted it would have a puri-
fying effect upon Politics. Ladies have the
interest of the Country at heart, and I do not
think they would sell their votes for gold as
men do. How could a lady teach her children
Republican principles and form of government,
unless she had a practical experience? We
have more to fear from the ignorant votes of
our citizens, than from she muskets of our
enemies."
	Mr. W. H. Jones said he had listened atten-
tively to the Constitution and By-Laws. "The
acquiring of Civil and Political government,
is based on the home, and who has more to
do with home than woman. Men and women
should go hand in hand, and cause no conflict.
When a great movement is agitated it is always
opposed." Quoted Longfellow to illustrate
his ideas. "Man is not without the woman
nor woman without the man." Quoted from
the Constitution of the United States, the 13-
14 and l5 ammendments and explained their
meaning. "The women of Utah had the
Franchise at one time, and they did not abuse
it. Woman had an insight into the character
of man, and she would not vote for a man un-
less he had a good character. No mam who is
not a good husband and father, has a right to
a position of honor."
	Mr. J. W. Paxman said "there is nothing 
objectional in the platform adopted. Women
should have an interest in this movement.
They have my sympathy, and I will aid and
encourage them all in my power. It is no
greater honor to go forth to fight for our rights
than to stand up bravely in defense of them."
	Miss L. A. Schofield said: "every lady
should feel it her duty to make an effort to
obtaiu the Franchise. Many do not under-
stand the true meaning of Woman Suffrage.
Some think woman is trying to usurp man's
rights. Not so! She ouly desires to stand
side by side with him, and share those privil-
eges he values as inestimable. Let the mothers
understand Politics, and their children will
become better citizens, and more intelligent
voters. Was there ever a great cause started
that woman did not wield a mighty influence
in it? She should educate, and fit, and prepare
herself to walk side by side with man.
'Woman was not taken from man's head to
rule over him, nor from his feet to be trampled
upon by him, but from his side to be equal
with him.'"
	Mr. C. Sperry approved the movement of
the ladies, thought they had a right to the
Franchise. He was satisfied that it was benefi-
cial when they exercised it in this Territory.
	The ladies manifested their appreciation of
the sentiments expressed by the speakers, by
frequent and hearty applause.
	The meeting was adjourned to meet in the
R. S. Hall, at 4 p.m. May 21, 1889.
	At the close a number of ladies gave their
names for membership.
		M. E. TEASDALE, Secretary.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS 

		    SEVEIR STAKE. 
	The Relief Society conference of this stake 
was held in the Relief Society Hall in the 
second ward, Richfield, March 15, 1889, com-
mencing at 10 a.m.  On the platform were


President E. Bean and her counselers, Jane 
Spencer, and Theresa Thurber, and several 
other presidents of branches in the Stake.  
	Conference opened with singing, prayer and 
singing.  Opening remarks by President 
Elizabeth Bean; the seeretary read the minutes 
of the previous conference which were accepted. 
President Bean requested the presidents to re-
port; six presidents reported, each one spoke 
of the benefits of the Relief Society, and of 
storing up of grain; of their societies being in 
good condition, and of the good works being 
performed by tbe sisters.
	President Bean was pleased with the reports; 
thought this a time when our meetings should 
be well attended, and we should meet often.  
Said Sister C. A. Hunt had resigned her posi-
tion as secretary of Seveir Stake, and moved 
that she be released by vote, and also to give 
her a vote of thanks.  Sister Christina Sellers
was then sustained as secretary for the Relief 
Society of Sevier stake.  President Bean gave 
good instructions concerning the storing of 
grain; reminded the sisters of the counsel 
given by President Woodruff.  
	Sister Lucy Heppler spoke on the duties 
of secretaries of various associations, urged them 
to be diligent in their work and to make a re-
cord of all business. 
	At the close of the morning session President 
Bean desired all who were present to come in 
the afternoon.  Singing.  Benediction by 
Sister Lucy Heppler.  Adjourned till 2 p.m. 
	Afternoon session:  Conference continued.  
Singing.  Prayer was offered by Bishop Poulsen 
Singing.  Two more Presidents reported their 
wards in good condition.  
	Counselor Theresa Thurber addressed the 
meeting; she gave good instructions; was much 
pleased with the meeting of yesterday, the 
object being to organize a Woman Suffrage 
Association in Sevier County, hoped that we 
would all realize the importance thereof.  
	Bishop Poulsen was pleased to meet with 
the sisters; said that it needed great efforts on 
the part of the sisters to attend to all their 
duties.  Encouraged the sisters to attend to 
their meetings that they might be benefited
and cheered up; spoke of the charity of the 
Sisters' Societies.  Dwelt on the beauty of
honoring and obeying the principles of the
Gospel.  "All trials and persecutions are cal-
culated to make us a great people; it is neces-
sary for us to undergo all of them."  
	President Bean said that we had in a way
been left to ourselves; the day had come for us
to exert our energies and act for ourselves;
that we had enjoyed many privileges and we
had not appreciated them fully.  "Some day
these blessings might be taken away from us 
and we would miss them."  Bore her testimony 
to the truth of the Gospel.  "We should set a 
good example before our children.  O!  how
mnch rests upon the mothers in the training of 
the children that they might become a light to
the world." 
	President Seegmiller addressed the conference
gave good instructions on how to live, and love
and honor home and country.  Said that the
Constitution of the United States was formed
by men inspired by the Holy Spirit.  
	President Bean made closing remarks.  Con-
ference adjourned for three months to be held
in Richfield.  Singing.  Benediction by Presi-
dent Wm. Seegmiller.  
			CHRISTINA SELLERS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WESTMINSTER ABBEY.

BY J. C. KITTREDGE.

	This Majestic pile, which the reflective mind
contemplates with awe, looms up before the eye,
beyond the imposing tower of the houses of
parliament. While gazing at it the mind

[Column 2]

glances back to the time of the birth and in-
fancy of the great church, when it was built on
the Isle of Thorns, by Sebert, king of the East
Saxons, who died in 616. It then descends to
a time several hundred years later—to Edward
the Confessor—and recalls the incident when
he was attending mass, of his seeing the Savior
as a luminous child—or thought he saw Him.
Owing to that circumstance, prompted by a
feeling of religious enthusiasm, while an exile,
he vowed that if ever he returned he would
make a pilgrimage to Rome for the purpose of
showing his religious devotion. Circumstances,
however, prevented him from doing so. To be
released from his oath Pope Leo IX told him
that he might build a church in honor of Saint
Peter. To carry his purpose into execution
the confessor concluded to erect a church upon
the site of that built by Sebert. He destroyed
the old building, and erected what was an
enormous one for that time, as it covered all the
land occupied by the present building.
	The foundation was laid in 1049, and the
building was consecrated December 28, 1065—
less than a year previous to the battle of Hast-
ings. Henry III was the second patron of the
abbey. It was rebuilt by him in the years
from 1245 to 1272. Edward I continued the
work which had been begun by his father. In
1502 the Lady chapel was pulled down by
Henry VII, and his own built in its place.
Queen Mary refounded the monastery and
Queen Elizabeth the school. Very little of the
original church now remains. This wonderful
building always contains for the traveler some-
thing of fresh interest.
	Saint Paul's cathedral, with all its beauty, is
second in attraction to Westminster abbey.
The latter is not only famous as an ancient
church, but more so on account of being the
resting-place of most of the illustrious dead of
England.
	There is an exceeding charm about the great
pile, for it actually records most of what has
been great in England—philosophers, states-
men, soldiers, poets, artists, and musicians, all
lie here. And the inspection of the tombs is
like seeing them face to face, for in this great
sanctuary we recall their great deeds.
	Westminster abbey contains, as one might
say, the sum total of what has built England.
Here one sees an inscription which tells of the
past glory of the nation—of one who has con-
tributed his mite toward the upbuilding of his
country. Here a chancellor of the exchequer,
under Elizabeth; there a soldier who defended
his land in a time of peril. It is curious to
observe the different styles of tombs, from the
plain forms at the time of William Rufus to 
the extremely ornate ones of Elizabeth's
day.

POET'S CORNER.
	People usually enter the section of the abbey
known as the "poet's corner" at the door where
the unfortunate Queen Caroline knocked in
vain for admittance to the coronation of her
husband, George IV. This section acquired its
name from the fact of Chaucer's having been
buried there, his monument having been the in-
augural one. Among the most important monu-
ments in this section, besides the one to
Chaucer, are those of Spenser, Shakespeare,
Milton, Goldsmith, Gray, Gay, Rowe, Thomp-
son and Longfellow.

AISLE OF HISTORY.
	The first monument we observe in going from
the poet's corner is that to Doctor Thomas
Parr, who quitted this life at the rather ripe
age of one hundred and fifty-two years; having
been born in 1483, and died in 1635. He lived
during the reigns of ten princes, namely,
Edwards IV and V, Richard III, Henry's VII
and VIII, Edward VI, Mary I, Elizabeth,
James, and Charles I. If this man were noted

[Column 3]

for nothing but years, that alone should ensure
his fame. He was a fit companion to old Jacob,
the Methuselah of France, who was born in the
reign of Louis XIV, and lived to see the
French revolution. Other prominent names
in the aisle of history are Davenant, Addison,
Jonson, Garrick, Handel, Macaulay, Thackeray
and Dickens. As we were in the abbey about
the time of the anniversary of the death of
Dickens, we saw flowers strewed upon the slab
which covers his dust—a tender tribute to his
kindness of heart.

CHOIR AND AISLES. 
	From the aisle of history one naturally turns
toward the aisles leading to the choir. Per-
haps to no part of the great edifice did we turn
with so much feeling of the chivalrous past as
we did toward the choir and aisles. The
solemn stillness of death pervades the place.
There, surrounded as we were by the tombs
 and effigies of ancient days, the lights of Eng-
lish history were thrown upon us. Looking
about, we were inspired with a certain degree
of awe. Aside from all individual memorials
of meritorious personages, there is a charm
particularly about this, one of the finest sec-
tions of the abbey, especially on a bright morn-
ing, the sun shining through the windows. To
the right, as you enter, extend chapel after
chapel—Saint Erasmus', Saint Paul's, Saint
John's, and others—lined with tombs. The
monuments of the time of Elizabeth are, for the
most part, the best; grand, as was the reign of
the maiden queen! There are represented effi-
gies of almoners, chancellors of the exchequer,
maids of honor, in alabaster and other materi-
als. These chapels were once places of wor-
ship. The last instance of carved animals at
the feet of recumbent effigies is on the monu-
ment of Lionel Cranfield, Earl Middlesex, 1645,
high treasurer to James I. There is a monu-
ment to Anne Neville, who married Edward,
Prince of Wales, son of Henry VI; who was
killed at Tewksbury. After the death of her
husband she hid and disguised herself as a 
kitchen maid, but was discovered by the Duke
of Gloucester, who married her. This was the
Lady Anne of Shakespeare—

	"Was woman ever in this humor wooed:
	Was ever woman in this humor won?"

CHAPEL OF SAINT EDMUND.
	There is a great fascination in going in and
out of the various chapels with their ancient
tombs and windows. The sight acts like a
spell upon the mind, carrying it into the re-
mote past and causing the actors in former
scenes to be present with us. In this chapel
sleep the children of Edward III. Bulwer
Lytton also lies buried here. But it is an in-
appropriate place for a modern.

CHAPEL OF SAINT NICHOLAS.
	Here lies Sir George Villars, father of the
first Duke of Buckingham. Catherine of
Valois, queen of Henry V, was also buried
here. She was the daughter of Charles VI of
France. After the death of the king she
married; not very satisfactorily, it is said. It
is a curious fact that Samuel Pepys kissed the
mummied lips of that queen; her body in his
time having been removed to the abbey. The
extreme vanity of the famous diarist may be
seen in this circunstance, as clearly as in any-
thing which has been recorded by him. It may
be of interest to the reader to see just what
Pepys says about it in his diary, volume 4, page
107. Here it is:
	"February 23, 1669—Up and to the office,
where all the morning, and then home, and put
a mouthful of victuals in my mouth, and by a
hackney coach followed my wife and and the
girls, who are gone by eleven o'clock, thinking
to have seen a new play at the Duke of York's
house. But I do find them staying at my


tailor’s, the play not being to-day, and there-
fore to Westminster abbey, and there did see
all the tombs very finely, having one with us
alone, there being other company this day to
see the tombs, it being Shrove Tuesday; and
here we did see, by particular favor, the body
of Queen Catherine of Valois, and had the
upper part of her body in my hands. ‘Im-
perial Caesar dead and turned to clay!’ and I
did kiss her mouth, reflecting upon it that I
did kiss a queen, and that this was my first
birthday—thirty-six years old—that I did kiss
a queen.”
			[To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ANOTHER TESTIMONY.

DEAR EDITOR:	
	I thought if there was room in our good
little paper I would write a few more lines for
it. In my last letter to you I told you about
going to Salt Lake and having a tumor
removed, and I have felt so well and happy
ever since; I want my sisters to see the difference
between being healed by the power of the Lord,
and being cured with medicine. I know that I
was healed by the power of the Lord; I have
never suffered ten minutes with any kind of
pain since I left the Deseret Hospital; and I
do feel so thankful to my Heavenly Father
for it; I never enjoyed myself so well in my
life as I do at the present time. Since I
came home last November I have made six
quilts and six chair tidies, and knit thirty
pairs of stockings, and have done twenty-five
dollars worth of sewing on the machine, besides
getting breakfast nearly every morning, and
looking after all the house work, and seeing
that the girls kept it done properly. If any of
my sisters can do any more than that, please
write and tell me.
	I have never missed one of our society meet-
ings ever since I have been able to walk to
them. I have visited my district as a Teacher
ever since Christmas. I have been a teacher
here for twenty years and I have always en-
joyed myself so much here, and now I am
going to move to Snake River Valley to live;
our boys are getting big now and will soon
want land, and we have not enough land here.
It will be a trial for me to bid my good sis-
ters good-by; the other day I had a sewing-bee
and invited all I could, in order to get to see
all of their good faces once more before I left
them; we had a jolly nice time, and sewed
about thirty pounds of carpet rags; so now I
can have a new carpet to take with me to my
new home.
	I was just reading such a nice piece in the
EXPONENT, written by some good sister, in re-
gard to taking crying babies to conference; it
reminds me of the last time I heard President
Young speak in conference; there were several
babies crying and he told the mothers next
time to stay at home and take care of the
babies and let their husbands tell them about
the preaching; I have always remembered
that and kept my babies at home.
	As ever your sister in the Gospel,
					M. A. RAWSON.


PRIMARY ANNUAL.
	Report of the Annual Meeting of the 20th.
Ward Primary held April 19th, 1889. Meet-
ing opened by singing “Beautiful Zion,”prayer
by Bishop Geo. Romney. Singing “Love at
Home.” Minutes of the last Annual meeting
read and approved. Programme as follows’
Address, Albert Romney, “The Primary.’:
Recitation, Katie Sansome; Recitation, Levi
Richards, “The Death of Sister Toone.” Song,
Pearl and Cathie Culmer; Essay Walter Rom-
ney, “The Latter-day Saints.” Recitation,
Isabelle Romney; Dialogue between three small


boys. Organ Solo, Katie Romney; Recitation,
Richard Evans; Dialogue between six of the
members. Recitation, Hazel Culmer; Song,
Lennie Savage; Recitation, Willie Salmon; 
Recitation, Pearl Culmer; Essay, Katie Hall
“Patience.” Song, Mary Salmon and Alice
Clowes; Recitation, Ray Savage; Reading,
Plet Lambourne; Dialogue between four little
girls. Song, Rosie Romney; Essay, Albert
Romney, “How to Succeed.” The speakers
were Sisters Jane Miller, L. G. Richards, Lilie 
Freeze, Louie Felt, L. A. Wells, P. L. Kimball,
E. C. Clawson, M. A. Freeze, and Brothers C.
W. Stayner, W. Willes, L. W. Richards, C.
R. Savage, J F. Simmons and Bishop Geo.
Romney. Counselor Maggie Sharp thanked
the children for their good behavior. Closed
by singing “Marching Homeward,” benedic-
tion by Brother Savage. Refreshments were
then passed around.
					S. PUZEY, Secretary.


NOTICE TO MEMBERS OF D. H. A.
	The month of May is the regular time to re-
new the membership to the Deseret Hospital
Association, and it is to be hoped the brethren
and sisters will come forward and pay the
annual fee of one dollar, and in this way help
to sustain a worthy and benevolent institution.
There are about nine hundred names on the
book of memberships, though but very few of
them have paid regularly since the first year.
Therefore it was thought best by the Execu- 
tive Committee to remind them of the time for
payment. New members are also earnestly
solicited to join.
				     E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


THE WAY TO REST.
	Many women never rest. They seem not to
understand what rest, real rest, means. To
throw one’s self down with a newspaper or book
is not rest; it is only a change of occupation.
To sit down and keep the fingers flying over
some sort of fancy work, as if one were pursued
by a demon of unrest, is certainly not rest.
But to lie at full length on a hard surface;
arms extended at the sides, head back, with no
pillow, eyes closed, all cares, and worries dis-
missed—this is rest; this will smooth away
wrinkles in the face and in temper; this will
give an air of repose to the tired, anxious
nervous woman; this will take away many an
ache and straighten out the rounded shoulders
and craned-out necks.


There are three difficulties in authorship: to
write anything worth publishing, to find honest 
men to publish it, and to get sensible men to
read it.  Literature has now become a game,
in which the booksellers are the kings; the
critics, the knaves; the public, the pack; and 
the poor author, the mere table, or thing played
upon.—Colton.


OBITUARIES.
	Died, at Payson, Jan., 21st, 1889.  Louisa Haag, our
much beloved sister, who was born in Stuttgart, Germany,
November 8th, 1839.  Embraced the Gospel, in the same
place, in 1881, and five of her children soon followed her
example.  Emigrated to Utah in 1883, with two of her
children, to join three others who had preceded her; leav-
ing her affectionate husband and one son behind.  She
was religiously inclined, seeking after truth from her early
childhood.
	She would steal away from her home to wait on the sick,
when only girl of fourteen.  It seemed to be her greatest
desire to give relief to the poor, sick, and needy.  She ex-
posed herself to wait on others; as a lady physician she did
a great deal of good among the sick.  She was an affec-
tionate mother and always set an example before her
children which was worthy of their imitation.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
     Adopted by the sisters of the Relief Society—Payson
Ward.  To the memory of our esteemed sister Louisa
Haag.
     Whereas, It has pleased God in His infinite wisdom, to
take from our midst by the hand of Death, our worthy and
beloved sister, and,
     Whereas, We, her fellow-laborers, in the Relief Society
feel that we have lost a friend and Sister, be it therefore,
     Resolved, That we tender our Love, Esteem and Heart-
felt Sympathies to her family, and condole with them in
their bereavement, while we submit to the will of an All-
wise God, who doeth all things well;
     Resolved, That we spread these Resolutions on the
Society Record, and present a copy to the family.
						LAMECIA A. SCHARRER,
						ELIZABETH SCHRAMM,
						JULIA WRIGHT,
									Committee.

     Died, Feb., 4th, 1889, at Kanosh, Millard County, of
childbed fever, Martha Ellen Prowse; daughter o
William and Loduoky Prowse, and wife of William Miller
Born March 14th, 1862.  She leaves a husband and four
children the two youngest boys being twelve days old at
the time of her death.
										COM.


SCAMMELL'S
Universal Treasure House
Of Useful Knowledge
	Should be purchased by all who wish a
complete work on practical information for
every day use.
	Earnest workers wanted to canvass for it by
the general agent.
			H. A. Hess,
				23 First East Street,
						Salt Lake City.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM. FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFTand FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 18.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1889.	NO. 2.


CONTENTS.

	From a Far Off Sister—M. L. S. Hephzibah—
A Story. The First of June—The Standard.
	EDITORIAL: This and That. The EXPONENT'S
Birthday—Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Primary at
Mill Creek.
	Suffrage Meeting—E. Pingree. Sericulture—
M. A. Till. Words to Mothers—A Mother.
Envy—Miss Aggie Campbell.
	Relief Society St. Joseph—W. East. Meet-
ings at Fillmore—M. A. Y. Greenhalgh. Ad-
dress to Bishop Atwood—Dr. E. S. Barney. Mrs.
Alder's Address. Sandwich Island Letter—
Lucy M. King. A Progression Backwards—The
Standard. Miscellaneous. Obituary.
	POETRY: June---H. F. Thomas.  Woman's
Suffrage---J. P. M. Farnsworth. A Missionary--S.


JUNE
Thou art here with thy garland of roses;
	Thou art here once agnin with thy song;
Thou hast brought back the blue sky and sunshine
	The days so exquisite and long.

Thou hast called back the birds wtth their music,
	Arrayed the old forest anew,
Hast brought back the lingering twilight,
	Begemmed the sweet morning with dew.

Brought back a new pleasure in living,
	The richness of life, and the bliss;
And yet amid all the glad beauty,
	There is something, still something we miss.

O June, with thy garland of roses,
	We bid thee farewell without pain,
For thou bringest not back the glad hours,
	The heart thrills we long for in vain.

There's a silence we long to have broken,
	A stillness amid all the song;
A voiceless something reminding
	Of days that forever are gone.

There are chords we miss out of the music,
	There is something gone out of the hours;
A brightness we miss from the sunshine,
	A fragrance we miss from the flowers.

Farewell, sweetest month of the summer,
	Bright gem in the swift passing years;
We are glad for thy coming and going,
	Though gladness is mingled with tears.

For we know there will come a glad summer
	And a June that is fairer than this,
Where the "lost chords" will swell the glad music.
	And the "missing" will make up the hliss.
						MRS. H. F. THOMAS.
Hearth ond Hall.


[Column 1]
FROM  A FAR  OFF SISTER.

DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Once more I find myself attempting the task
of penning a few of my random thoughts.  It 
is now the loveliest spring weather, and the
gay little birds are daily seranading us with
their sweet melodies; but soothing as music is
I am weary of too great a variety of it tonight,
yet, at last the little ones are asleep, and baby
has forgotten her tiny teeth; yes, and the notes
of the violin have ceased in the adjoining room,
so I suppose, for at least a few moments. I may
write without interruption.
     Now if this pen would only go to work and

[Column 2]
get all these varied thoughts into a creditable
article, I might remember you much oftener;
and when I can make up my mind even to jot 
down a few small lines, I feel that while re-
membering my dear sisters, that they too re-
member me; and my spiritual strength is re-
newed; my duties pointed out more plainly.
So if one seems to write for others, it is really
self and one's own weaknesses that suggest 
much that is given.
     If there is a sister in Zion who does not think
and that too, strongly, now-a-days, she must
be lacking in sensibility.  How many pure
and elevating thoughts rise in the mind, while
the wild and unprofitable are also forced in by
the wily tempter; and how often I ask, how
much am I learning to control these same
thoughts?  For I realize I must do so ere I hope
to successfully control my every word and
make it echo the sentiments of a true and
honest heart.  How often we can see even
those we love the best, in sore distress by un-
kind words;  and although the heart may not
be as cruel as this traitor tongue would lead
one to suppose, yet, certain it seems to me, that
if every evil and unholy thought is cast out,
our words and conversation must soon be that
of a Saint; and such that  the unseen angels
might be ready to listen  to, instead of being
driven from our presence.
     Our lives are ours to make or to mar.  We
have the right to earn a salvation in the
Kingdom of God, or be doomed to eternal
sorrow in the great hereafter, as we choose for
ourselves.  Shall we throw to the winds all
prospect of heavenly joy, for  the sake of
selfish whims being gratified during our earthly
life?  No! a thousand times no.  We are only
here on earth to prepare for an eternal exist-
ence beyond the grave, and why do we let
selfishness and avarice blind our eyes that we 
so often lose sight of the goal we so much de-
sire to gain.  We know that the only safe-
guard is prayer; and we are sure of His pro-
tecting influence while we humbly sue for it;
but if left alone we may stumble and fall;
and it may be so low we can never rise again.
Many of us say,  how thankful we are for
every trial we have been called upon to pass
through, and especially for the privilege of
having lived in the "Celestial order of Mar-
riage."  But were we willing that each member
be considered equal with ourselves?  Were we
really converted to the fact that this sacred
principle was revealed  by God for our tem-
poral as well as spiritual salvation?
     We cannot remove trials from the paths of
our daughters, but much may be done to
soften their trials by their  being taught im-
plicit confidence in God and never doubting 
his justice and mercy.  We are satisfied Our
Father is more merciful than we as mortals
can be, yet we must also see that to obtain like
blessings,  all must be in the same state of
preparation; if not by performing the ident-
cal labor,  by placing ourselves as humble and 
willing instruments in His hands, and if there
is  any law we have  not accepted truly and
sincerely in our hearts we  have yet to do so
before we  may hope to live up to the require-
ments of the Gospel, or be near that state of
happiness and perfection we hope to find after
laying down our life-work,  for if dropped
ever so suddenly, it cannot be received in such
an unfinished state, but must be gathered up
and begun at the very point it was left.

[Column 3]
Then surely, dear sisters, we are not wasting
our time and our struggles to overcome the
weaknesses of the flesh, and  to make each
day's work as perfect as possible.  And
though we may not now understand, we may
be comforted by these  beautiful words of the
poet:
 
		"When we reach the shining strand
		Where the waiting angels stand,
		In the far off father-land,
				We shall know;
		In the happiness unending
		Of a blissful comprehending,
		   What our life-work meant below.

		In the fullness deep and wide,
		Weary souls by sorrow tried,
		Knowing, shall be satisfied
				In His rest.
		Finding in the perfect sweetness
		Of an infinite completeness
		   That God's way is always best."
							    M. L. S.


HEPHZIBAH.

I
	"Truth is stranger than fiction."

	His love was like that of the knights of
olden time, who were ever ready to break a
lance in love's defense; and often when beside
the hearth-stone of the wide, old fireplace, on a
wintry night, he would sit by her as she dallied
with her knitting, for womans' hands are scarce
ever quiet, and as he would recount over and
again the chapter of incidents upon the battle-
field, how he had suffered with his comrades
in arms, and how many had died of the wounds
received from the enemy, his blood would rise
to fever heat, as he seemed to see the dreadful
tragedies enacted over again, and starting to
his feet with clenched hands and eyes of fire, he
would vow eternal enmity to the foe;—but his
eye chancing to rest upon his fair, young wife,
and remembering the sacrifices she had made
for him, all the anger would die out of his face,
and a change such as an angel's presence might
bring where discord reigned, would be swift
as transition, and dropping low his eyes,suffused
with tears, his passionate voice changed to low
and tremulous tones, he would exclaim entreat-
ingly, "forgive me darling,—for your dear sake
I will refrain from recrimination, your father
was a brave and valiant soldier, though he
fought on the wrong side; but he was the soul
of honor; and though it wounded his pride to
see you marry one he considered inferior, one
of the rebels, he had been sent across the sea to
subdue, yet he loved his child too well to wreck
her happiness, and recognized that love con-
quers, when the sword has failed."
	This was nearly a hundred years ago now,
and both are lying in the old church yard un-
der the mossy sods, with broken tomb-stones,
overgrown with tangled rose-vines in the sleepy
town, whose church steeples can yet be seen
from the village, where their wedded life was
spent. The lady died in the full bloom of
motherhood, many years before her "lord," and
left him lonely and sorrowful, in the prime of
his life at the old manor house.
	Long years after, a change had been
wrought in all that pertained to the village and
its inhabitants. The home of the Major and
his once young and beautiful wife, had grown


[column 1]
old and gray, and well befitted its owner; 'twas
a rambling country dwelling, gambrel-roofed,
the eaves projecting wide, and the swallows had
built their nests year  after year in the same
nooks and corners, until they seemed as much
at home as the inmates of the house.  Outside
'twas quaint in design of no particular archi-
tecture, rather rudely built, but withal substan-
tial, and like its master had seen much service;
—the storms of many winters had beaten upon
its walls, and it was weather-worn; inside it
was roomy, home-like and commodious; the
large wide open fire-place bespoke warmth and
comfort, especially when great logs of wood
were piled on the heavy fire-dogs, and blazed
up fitfully, and the tall, thin, tallow candles
burned with a flickering light, and shadows
flitted hither and thither in the long,low rooms
with their sombre walls; then the house had
almost a legendary appearance, and one
susceptible of illusions, might readily have
been induced to believe the frightful stories of
ghosts and witches, that were the regular
winter pastime, on a festive evening in the
country houses.  The furniture of the place
was in harmony with its other appointments,
oaken and dark and heavy made;—tall chests
of drawers with awkward brass knobs, reached
from the floor to the ceiling, filled with the
family linen, that had once been the pride of
the fair young mistress; tables we should call
clumsy now, and chairs and sofas straight-
backed and uncomfortable, corresponded well
with the  other articles of furniture.  In the
long dining room, the principal living room
in the days of the first master and mistress,
when the children were around them, was a tall
majestic clock, inside which one might have
stood upright with perfect ease; the large brass
pendulum swung to and fro as leisurely as
when it counted the merry hours for the happy
family that dwelt within these, now almost
deserted rooms.  The great broad face looked
knowing and wise as much as to say.  I keep
the family chronology.  I have marked the
time of births, of marriages and deaths faith-
fully for four-score years.  I guard the honor
of the house, and know its history.  Many
times in years after when the long, low room
was deserted, and a neighbor would drop in,
the old clock was like a familiar friend, and its
tick, tick in the quiet of the old house seemed
to break the deep silence that rested upon it.
				11

Deserted halls where all was once so bright,
	Now so neglected, shadowy and gray;
For she, who made the home so full of light,
	Can come no more, to chase the gloom away.

	After six and twenty years of uninterrupted
domestic felicity, the master was left alone with
his five boys.  No daughter had been born to
them to bear the semblance of the beautiful
wife and mother, though the father had
ardently longed for one, to be the light and
comfort of his home.  Many were the plans
the happy couple laid, in that past which was
gone forever now,—to train and educate a little
girl, should the fates be so propitious as to
grant them this desire.  The husband thus bereft
of his treasure yearned more than ever for wo-
manly companionship.  His mother had been
dead many years, he had never known what it
was to have a sister; and now his wife the be-
loved of his heart, the companion of his youth,
and the pride of his home was gone forever.
He could not be reconciled to his loss, and he
gave himself up to sad and gloomy reveries that
made him old before his time, and totally un-
fitted him for the duties devolving upon him as
the father and only parent to his family of
boys.  The boys grew to manhood and entered
upon the busy, practical pursuits of life; and
one by one left the paternal roof to which the
father clung so tenaciously.  The orchard and

[column 2]
fields were neglected, the garden grew to weeds
and the fine old cherry trees were the sport of
the birds and the unruly urchins of the neigh-
borhood.  The beehives demanded some little
attention once or twice a year, but the master
never gave any orders to his servants so the
fine estate was left to ruin.  The old gentleman
sat in his chimney corner in her room, the one
she, whom he so loved had occupied, and drank
his tea, and ate his tasteless meals, (scarce
realizing what he did,) on the same round table
with snowy linen, where so many times in the
olden days they two had sat and chatted over
the romantic past and sketched out the golden
future.  There was the queer cupboard filled
with quaint old china, a few pieces of silver-
ware seldom ever washed, a chest of drawers
packed with linen that was never aired.
     For years the master lived on and on in the
same dull, stupid, monotonous wey until he
was nearly a hundred years old.  Once or
twice a year the eldest son and heir, long ago
tired of the factory which had fallen into a ruin,
the namesake of his father and father’s father,
Elisha, would come up from Boston, to look
after the property and see that no one carried
away the valuables; and each time he antici-
pated renting the estate to some thrifty young
farmer, who would make it pay a good interest,
as well as keep it in repair. “No! No!” was
invariably the answer. “Wait until I am
gone.” A younger son resided in the village,
but his family was large, though he like his
father had married late in life, and had not
been very successful in his enterprise, had met
with heavy losses, and the eldest son hated him
and would not allow any interference on his
part in regard to the homestead.  This was the
condition of affairs three score years ago and
more, at the time our story opens, and the vil-
lage was as described in the opening paragraph.
Four score years and more had flown since the
old Major first saw the light of day, and those
he knew in early life, one by one had gone un-
til none remained of the loved and cherished
companions of his youth, and he felt,

"Like one who treads alone, some banquet hall de-
	serted
Whose lights are fled, whose garlands dead,
And all but he departed."

	He was much alone; occasionally his grand
children who lived near the homestead would
come in and listen to his strange stories, but his
heart seemed cold and dead, and he never
kissed or caressed them in fact they worried
him; so the old woman used to say who waited
on him.  The little things wondered at his in-
difference and often asked “What ails grand-
pa?” And mamma would explain how he
mourned for her he had so tenderly loved, his
wife; and that no daughter had come into the
home to fill the vacancy; and it may be strange
to state that none of his son’s wives suited him,
he thought them all too common place.  They
could not enter into his feelings and views; and
had no patience with his whims.  He talked
much to himself and often fancied that his
darling, the light of his life, sat by him as in
days gone by.
	One wintry day when the snow was deep
upon the ground, he was sitting by the little
corner fire-place toying with his silver snuff
box and musing as though holding sweet com-
munion with her he loved, and a little child
beautiful and bright, came running in, and
roused him from his dreamy reverie, exclaim-
ing, “News! grandpa; good news!” The poor
old man half dreaming said, “No, my son, she
has not come back, she cannot come, I have
called her often, but all in vain;” “But grand-
pa,” reasoned the child, “papa sent me to tell
you to come over;—you must come, its to see
the new baby, it came at sunrise this morning,
and papa wants you to drink to its good health
and long life, for it is a girl, and you are to

[column 3]
name it.” Hearing this and beginning to un-
derstand the situation, the aged man took his
hat and cane, and off he strode with the little
one to the house of his son, a short distance
away, only a few minutes walk, and with the
impatience of a child he entered.  The son
welcomed his father warmly, and after seating
him comfortably by the fire, explained why he
had sent for him on such a cold raw day.
“Father” said he; “we have had sons and
daughters, six in number, this is the seventh,
and perchance may be the last in your life-
time, and I want you to name it, and filling
the glass with purple wine he handed it to his
venerable father, who taking it drank to
“Hephzibah,” and said “I shall not live long
and she who was born to-day shall bear the
name of her I loved so well and mourn so sin-
cerely.  The wee little creature shall be called
for her grandmother, who was “the pride of
the village.” And then he uttered, possibly
unknown to himself, a prophecy that she should
become learned and wise, and that in all the
village none should excel her in the road to
fame.  But of all this no one thought much at
the time, but years afterwards the saying came
back to their remembrance with increased sig-
nificance.  Dinner was served, and the old
Major grew talkative.  A tender chord had
been touched by repeating the name he loved
so well, for how dear the plainest names be-
come when associated with those precious to
our hearts, we all know.   The children in-
quired what grandpa named the baby sister,
and when they were told 'twas Hephzibah, they
though it “dreadful horrid,” and even cried to
think so sweet a little baby should have such a
terrible name given to it.  But grandpa was
inexorable, and tears and entreaties were of no
avail, and as if to make peace he said she
should have all the fine embroidered laces, her
grandmother had wrought with her own dainty
fingers, the chests of linen, the elegant, old
china, the silver ware and spoons, and all the
silks and ribbons so long packed away out of
sight, that no woman was permitted to handle,
much less to wear.  All this and more he pro-
mised on the day of her birth to the uncons-
cious little one.
		  [TO BE CONTINUED.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Connecticut House of Representatives
has passed the bill granting school suffrage to
women, with the right to hold school offices.
	The New England Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation, having reached the age of twenty-one,
is no longer in the minority period, and is en-
titled to the ballot and full rights of citizen-
ship generally. The shingle of conservatism
still refuses to go over the dam, but the in-
evitable is near at hand.—Boston Globe.
	The Connecticut House of Representatives
has passed a bill providing that "no person
shall be disqualified for being a member of any
ecclesiastical society, with all the privileges
and rights of male members, or from holding
office in such society, by reason of sex;" also, a
bill making women eligible to the office of
Assistant Town Clerk and Registrar of Births,
Marriages, etc.
	"Mrs. Julia Ward Howe received many
beautiful gifts on her seventieth birthday, May
27, and the papers have devoted much space to
well-deserved tributes to her life and work.
The current number of America celebrates
Mrs. Howe's birthday with a series of contribu-
tions in prose by her children, Florence Howe
Hall, Laura E. Richards, Maud Howe Elliot
and Henry M. Howe, with a selection from the
writings of the late Julia Romana Anagnos."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE.

We're a band of valiant women,
	In a cause both true and just;
Have started on a mission,
	And in God we put our trust.
We aim not, at pomp and grandeur,
	But ours is the call for right—
And it has a beacon burning—
	To cheer us with its light.

'Tis the cry from far off countries,
	'Tis the wail of womankind
To aid in gaining knowledge,
	To strengthen and to bind;
To comfort and encourage,
	To raise the fallen heart,
	To lighten heavy burdens,
And of justice, grant a part.

Our duties here, as mothers,
	Give license for our needs;
Simply asking right of franchise,
	The power the ballot feeds.
We claim no greater liberty,
	Than intelligence will gain;
No surer wealth of purpose
	Than our minds can now maintain.

For woman's worth is growing;
	In time, 'twill force its way
Thro' darkness adn thro' prejudice,
	Men are groping in to-day.
Therefore, we'll work in earnest.
	And calmly bide our time
To enjoy woman's right of suffrage,
	In this our Utah's clime.

We'll not falter in our purpose,
	No difference what people say;
Ours is a glorious object,
	O'er which the future sheds its ray;
Tho' ridicule and ignoranee
	May scorn, and scoff at pleasure,
Undaunted we will meet them,
And deal them out full measure.

We'll stand, with fearless character,
	And lend a helping hand
To every call that's honest,
	Of whatever creed or clan.
Our motto and our watchword,
	Shall be principle and truth
For our home and for our country,
	God grant us help for both.

		J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.


[Column 1]﻿

A MISSIONARY.

How shall we express the great pleasure
	We take in now writing to friends?
O truly! No mortal can measure
	The blessings, which Our Father sends.

One year and a half since we parted
	From friends, with the shake of the hand;
'Tis just the same time since we started,
	From mountains and valleys so grand.

Though in a strange land now we wander,
	As young missionaries we roam;
We're growing the fonder, and fonder
	Of friends in our dear Mountain Home.

Duty called for a time, separation
	From those who are dear to our heart;
From Sunday School, friends and relations,
	From all duty called us to part.

The call was to go on a mission,
	To battle with error and doubt;
And overcome rank opposition
	To truth the world soon shall find out.

This labor and duty devolving
	On us to perform for the Lord—
We left our home firmly resolving,
	To trust in his promising word.

We went, ah yes, 'twas our duty
	To go and proclaim to the world,
The glory and transcendent beauty
	Of Zion's white banner unfurled.

To warn men of all ranks and stations,
	To show them the Gospel we teach,

[Column 2]

And tell of the great exaltation
	They may by obedience reach.

We tell them, "give heed to our warning;
	The Gospel accept and obey;
That you may arise in the morning,
	Of the first resurrection day."

We teach them true faith in the Father,
	Creator of all that we see;
And also in Jesus our Savior,
	Who says, "Believe also in me."

"For through Him you'll gain life eternal,
	If you but obey His command;
Partake of the blessings supernal,
	In reigning with His righteous band."

That they with an honest desire,
	Should turn from transgression and sin;
And make their aim brighter and higher,
	Determined life's battle to win.

Be born of the water and spirit,
	Receive a remission of sins;
Obey the Still Voice when you hear it,
	Instructing your spirit within.

And when you have laid the foundation, 
	Go on to perfection's bright shore.
That you may enjoy the relation
	Of Christ with His Saints evermore.

When "peace on the earth" will be sounded'
	"Good will to all men" be the cry,
Your joy will be surely unbounded,
	Singing praise to Jehovah on high.

Above, is the message we're preaching,
	'Tis Jesus, and Him crucified;
His goodness and mercy we're teaching,
	How, for us, He suffered and died.

In leaving our home for this object,
	To travel without purse or scrip,
The Elders are, oftentimes subject
	To insults, the scourge and the whip.

Vile jeerings, and vituperation,
	Mob violence, scoffing and scorn;
A flood of misrepresentation,
	A child of gross ignorance born.

They drive us from city to city,
	Yet, we must forgive and forbear;
They yet will come pleading for pity,
	In tears of remorse and dispair.

Remember, the word that is spoken,
	The servant's not greater than Lord,
If you are reviled, 'tis a token
	That you are obeying his word.

Rejoice ye in your persecution!
	This, Saints, shall your heritage be;
For, this, did they unto the Prophets,
	And thus will they do unto thee.

Don't think all is stormy and cloudy,
	That nothing but troubles appear;
We often meet those who are friendly,
	Who's kindnesses comfort and cheer.

For, oft, as a sweet fragrant flower,
	Is found by a rank noxious weed,
So some, will do all in their power
	Providing the things that we need.

Who giveth a cup of cold water,
	In no wise shall lose his reward.
Who gives us food, raiment and shelter,
	Shall surely be blessed of the Lord:

At last, we will turn our attention
	To brothers and Sunday School friends;
(But first we just thought we would mention
	Our labors, and what they attend.)

To give a complete explanation,
	Of scenes and experiences too,
I'll wait for the realization
	Of once again meeting with you.

Indulging in musing reflections,
	Familiar home duties oft pass;
And foremost of these retrospections,
	Are scenes of the Sunday School class.

When just before ten Sunday morning—
	Return of another Lord’s day—

[Column 3]

The Sabbath School children are formiug
	In classes to learn, sing and pray.

It seems even now, we hear blending
	The voices of Saints singing praise;
To Father in heaven, for sending
	The Gospel, in these latter days.

And when you are humbly addressing
	The throne of our Father to-day,
Dear friends, you must ask for a blessing
	For those who are far, far away.

We earnestly pray and petition,
	The Lord to direct and sustain
The Saints in their trying position,
	Till Christ comes in glory to reign.		S.


THE FIRST OF JUNE.

	June 1st, "Primary Day" among the children
of Utah, is one of the happiest in all the year.
It comes when nature is at her best and all the
flowers are gorgeous with their wealth of color
and weighted with their rich perfume. It falls
between the season of uncertain and change-
able spring, and that of heated and oppressive
summer. In our altitude it is in every respect
far more suitable for the annual spring festival
of the children than the conventional Mayday
whose pleasures it each year more and more
completely reserves unto itself.
	As the birthday of Brigham Young, the day
deserves all the honor which it receives. A per-
sonal remembrance of that great man is held
by many of the youth who do not yet feel
themselves too old to share in the festivities of 
his anniversary. The younger portion know
him only for the deeds and words which he has
left behind. As they grow in years and un-
derstanding they will become better able to ap-
preciate his worth, and in the record which he
made they will find, as their elders do, ever
more to commemorate and admire.
	It is said that cotemporary history is never
just; what is praiseworthy is smothered with
adulation, what is faulty is distorted by preju-
dice. During the life of the man whose natal
day the children yesterday observed, his works
seldom received a word of praise. He was
slandered, caricatured, and contemned, and
most bitterly, strange to say, where his achiev-
ments were apparent every day. If he was
credited at all with the magnificent acquire-
ments which are a part of Utah's history, those
who were bold enough to recognize them came
in themselves for a share of the abuse heaped
upon him.
	Happily the world grows wiser as the years
move on. Petty enmities fade away as the
cycles sweep around, and those who judged
heatedly yesterday are to-day blessed with
calmer vision. Fresh eyes, too, and minds un-
tainted by passion, have come to see and ap-
preciate what to us is an old theme. Under
these conditions the work of Utah's founder is
better understood. Brigham Young is not now
stigmatized as a fanatic, a greedy zealot, an
ignorant autocrat. Men of sense and breadth,
judging him by his works, speak of him as
possessed of transcendant powers. They admit
that he was mighty in character, and must have
been filled with true statesmanship. They
recognize in the Utah of to-day a never dying
testimony of his greatness; aud, however much
they may differ with his creed, they do not
withhold their tribute to his nobility of mind.
	As the record of his life shall be more widely
read and better understood, admiration of his
character will increase with all who are able
to approximately measure men by the divine
standard: "By their works ye shall know
them." Who knows but what on some future
occasion when the children following their
beautiful custom are celebrating his anniver-
sary, a thought of regret may enter the hearts
of some who lately deemed Brigham Young's
name unworthy of being borne by one of the
streets of Ogden City!	The Standard.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mall,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	June	15, 1889.


[Column 1]

THIS AND THAT.

	The Old Folks' Excursion comes off on the 26
inst. It will be the 15th anniversary, and the
destination is Lester Park, Ogden City.
	We acknowledge with thanks and a full appreci-
ation of the delicate expressions of affection,
floral tributes from Mrs. Jane Cowan, Misses Kate
and E. Wells, and Mrs. A. W. Cannon; also a
very handsome and fragrant bouquet of wild
flowers from Miss Caroline and Master Volney
Crocheron.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, of this City, accom-
panied by her daughter, has gone East to the
State of New York to attend a centennial celebra-
tion of the town of Phelps, Ontario Co., the
place of her nativity. Mrs. Kimball was speci-
ally invited to represent her father's family, the
Grangers, at the public demonstration which is to
be made on the occasion, June 19, 1889.
	The name of the Salt Lake Stake Academy,
was changed to Latter-day Saints' College, by
formal action of the Board of Directors, on the
15th of May, 1889. We have received the Annual
Circular issued for the Fourth Academic Year,
1889-1890, and shall notice more fully at another
time. We have observed in glancing through it,
several changes, which mark the progress of this
excellent school, and feel confident of the success
of a college where religious teaching is at the
foundation of educational work.
	Clara Barton, President of the Red Cross, is
doing effective work on a large scale at the scene
of suffering in Johnstown. This remarkable
woman is a public benefactor, and deserves ever-
lasting gratitude for her efficient labors among the
sick and afflicted, the wounded and dying, not
only on the battle-field, but in times of peace,
when dire calamities of any kind have befallen a
place or people; whenever and wherever suffer-
ing humanity has called for gentle woman's minis-
trations, nothing daunted, she has gone like an
angel 'mid scenes' the most appalling. Her name
is written in deeds of valor and charity, far more
imperishable, than if in letters of gold, for they
are engraven unmistakably upon human hearts.
	The Alumni Association of the Deseret Uni-
versity, had a most delightful meeting and ball at
the University Building in this City, on Wedens-
day evening June 12. The programme was a
most excellent one, being a pleasing variety of
exercises, songs, music. speeches, toasts, etc.
The banquet prepared for two hundred was in
every way a perfect success; the tables were
artistically decorated with flowers which always
adds greatly to any scene, and to the enjoyment
of the participants.
	The University commencement exercises were

[Column 2]

held in the Salt Lake Theatre on Thursday,
June 13, and were of a most interesting character
of which we hope to give a more full account in
the near future; also the names of the graduates
and other items of the brilliant and successful
affair.
	The three young girls who graduated in the
literary course were, Misses Mary Lewis, May
Preston, and Maud Merrill of Salt Lake City.
Miss Preston, representing the graduates in the
literary course, read an essay "Poetry as a Moral
Influence," which was received with hearty and
richly merited applause and a shower of flowers,
which must have been very delightful. Miss
Bessie Dean sang a ballad "Laddie" in her most
happy manner, and was also enthusiastically
complimented.
	Friday was "Field Day" for the Deseret Uni-
versity at Lake Park, where a most enjoyable
afternoon and evening was spent by the teachers,
graduates and their friends; dancing at the
pavilion was kept up until a late hour.
	To the principal, Dr. J. R. Park must be attri-
buted much of the success of the institution, and
he will surely feel laudably proud of the honors
and gratitude which are rightfully bestowed upon
him and his fellow laborers, who have been so
many years associated in the University's educa-
tional work. Professors Toronto, Kingsbury and
Paul also come in for a goodly share in the
public debt of gratitude.
	In honor of Mrs. Elliot Sandford and her hus-
band, the late Chief Justice of this Territory,
previous to their leaving Utah, (and whose re-
moval from the judicial bench the people so much
regret) an excursion party to the lake was planned
and successfully carried out by Mrs. F. S.
Richards, and Mrs. W. W. Riter. There were
about fifty invitations given, and Mr. Riter
placed a car at the disposal of the company.
There was no particular programme, except
having a good time generally, and it was
thoroughly an enjoyable affair. The day was a
fair one, as most June days are in this climate.
The party seemed happily grouped and the
ladies in charge did all in their power to make
the hours speed merrily.
	A few indulged in baths, but most of the party
sat in the pavilion, chatting and watching the
bathers and admiring the wonderful lake, the
western view, and the mountains beyond, until
the late train having arrived, on which the Judges
were expected, a call was made to repair to the
dining room, where the guests were served to an
elaborate dinner, including all the delicacies of
the season.  Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Riter, Mrs.
F. S. Richards, (her husband having been unavoid-
ably detained), Judge Sanford and wife, Judge
Anderson and wife, also Miss Anderson and Mrs.
McCoy, were seated at the head of the table;
Delegate John T. Caine and wife, and Mrs. Buck
of Keokuk, were near them, and other ladies and
gentlemen filled the long table on either side, and
a merry company they were indeed.
	Mrs. Sandford had many gifts of flowers,
baskets and bouquets, and she looked radiantly
happy withal. It was very much regretted that
Judge Henderson aud wife, and Judge Judd and
wife, who were to have been of the party
could not attend; also that President Angus M.
Cannon who accompanied the party, was obliged
to return on an early train.
	On Saturday, June 8th, Judge and Mrs. Sanford
left Salt Lake City for the East, going by way
of the National Park. They have left many
warm friends and admirers in Utah, who will
gladly welcome them back should they ever re-
turn.
	All over the land in America and elsewhere 
abroad, the deepest sympathy for the sufferers of 
Johnstown has been felt, and in many places and
in many ways expressed; not only in touching

[Column 3]

and eloquent words, but also in material aid and
assistance coming from all parties, and all sections
of the country.
	Utah has responded heartily, as evinced by the
carloads of provisions sent and money liberally
donated by individuals and business firms. Also
by the united efforts of the citizens of Salt Lake
City, in planning, and carrying into execution the
Mammoth Concert in the large Tabernacle, the
proceeds of which it is now estimated will be over
seven thousand dollars.
	In this delightful entertainment for so noble a
purpose, the best local talent in the City, gave
their services with glad hearts and voices and
willing hands, to swell the fund for the benefit of
suffering humanity.
	Young ladies have not been idle, as we under-
stand quite a considerable sum was raised by
selling bouquets on the streets. Of course youth
beauty and flowers are in themselves attractive,
but when a noble purpose is in view, the enter-
prise was sure to be a grand success.
	In Ogden, a Benefit concert was given at the
tabernacle on short notice, but it was quite a
brilliant affair, and there as in Salt Lake, the best
local talent united heart and heand to make it a
success. Quite a sum was raised there too, to
swell the fund by the little girls selling bouquets,
in booths fitted up for the purpose on the streets.
All the flowers were donated from the gardens
round about. It was a very pretty sight to see
these sweet wee maidens surrounded with an
abundance of the most choice and lovely roses
and flowers of June, engaged in such a charitable
work at their tender age.
	We regret exceedingly our lack of space to
give more special details of what has been done.
Ogden, Provo, and other cities in Utah have also
raised money for the sufferers, by individual do-
nations. Some of the means we understand, is
to be devoted to the Seattle people, who were
sufferers on account of the great fire which
occured there recently.


THE EXPONENT'S BIRTHDAY.

SEVENTEEN YEARS OLD.

DEAR EXPONENT.
	And so you were seventeen years old the I, of
June, 1889? How very happy an idea that it is
also President Brigham Young's birthday. In
calling you into existence upon that honored day,
you are imperishably connected with his illustri-
ous history, as well as indebted to him for your
very being. Have you not cause for gratitude?
You, who even yet in your "teens" speak to all
the world for the maidens, matrons, and even the
Priesthood, in behalf of our liberty and our re-
ligion?
	What a traveler you have been. "The isles
wait for thee," the valleys listen and the moun-
tains look afar off, waiting for thy coming. Into
how many stranger hearts hast thou borne the
tidings of truth for thy people, and the sweet in-
fluence of the Gospel; thou faithful missionary
for the Father.
	In this brief career of seventeen years, how
much has been accomplished in His service only
He can count. Great and kind was the heart and
prophetic the mind of Brigham Young when he
called and named thee his literary daughter;
when he gave thee thy mission as bearer and
messenger of truth; as historian of woman's
progress among God's people. Forever may thy
banner lead though many others should rise amid
the hosts of thy people. Long years hast thou
been the solitary guest and comforter, the one
woman's paper; and may they never forget thee,
their first ove; never lay aside their first duty to
thee and thy founder.
	May they who bear his name, and they who
love to remember his counsel, unite their names


upon thy pages with their rarest thoughts, as they
would bring their gifts to deck beauty's form.
Let thy columns be the repository the archives of
treasured thoughts, and records wrought from the
minds and the hearts of the daughters of thy peo-
ple.  Soon, no longer maiden, but woman, dear
EXPONENT, may thy presence be welcomed in
ten thousand homes, telling what Zion's daughters
have done, the magnitude of their enlarging
fields of usefulness, and their still grander hopes.
When you are eighteen, dear EXPONENT, no
take time—when you are twenty, perhaps, may be
you will add a fold or two to your skirts, and em-
bellish them with journalistic attractions—for, are
you not, by birthright entitled and endowed to
wear as many honors as any other eldest born
daughter of fame?

	At this point in my paying my respects to the
EXPONENT, the other guests could not restrain
their impatience at my appropriating so much
valuable time, and I felt my skirt getting pulled
by some one, while others crowded past me with
something in their hands, and a general murmur
of pleasant voices rising higher and higher,
abashed me into silence, and while the EXPO-
NENT peacefully smiled acknowledgement of my
humble appreciation and good wishes, which was
all I had to offer, (as is generally the case on
every other note-worthy occasion,) she was
obliged to give directions to some one to summon
several persons to make out receipts, and in less
than a minute, there was such a fluttering of
papers, exchanging hands, and such a clinking of
falling coins, that I sank back in my chair, over-
come with my insignificance, when the springs
seemed to sink so entirely away, that I sprang up
in alarm. Gracious! was the EXPONENT'S birth-
day reception all a dream? Well, then, as sure
as I'm saying this to you, that dream means
something; "its the forerunner of a good sign,"
as a dear old lady I once knew used to say.  And
I believe this same dream was brought about by
my reflections on the reduction in the price of
the EXPONENT. I wouldn't have done it. A
Mormon Woman's paper is worth two dollars,
more than some other papers are worth one dollar.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

PRIMARY AT MILL CREEK.

	On Tuesday June 4th, we had the pleasure of a
visit to the Primary Associations of Mill Creek
Ward, the four districts having come together, as
is their usual custom to hold an annual meeting.
There were present of visitors President Ellen C.
Clawson and her Counselor Mrs. C. Cobb also Dr.
R. B. Pratt. The meeting house presented an
inviting appearance with the beautiful children in
summer attire, and the vases filled with roses and
fragrant flowers from the field and garden. The
exercises were varied and a credit to the Associa-
tion. Each President had charge of the children
from her own district. The meeting opened with
singing, "All nature invites her praise to God."
Prayer by Elder Phillip Carlisle, singing, "Nearer
my Savior to Thee." Minutes read by the Secre-
tary and approved, also the yearly report. Pro-
gramme first district Mrs. Ann Lemon presiding;
Gertrude Cook, Washington Lemon and Mary
Fuller each gave a recitation, singing by all the
children "The Word of Wisdom," President
Clawson spoke a few words on this subject. Pro-
gramme second district, Mrs. McAllister presid-
ing exercises as follows: Lizzie Bowden, recita-
tion, "Annie and Willie's Prayer," Celia Jen-
son, Earnest Jenson recitation, song by several
girls. Rhoda Ann Boam recitation, Etta Jenson
essay on "Modesty." Song several little girls
"Sabbath  Day." Robie Hamilton, Arthur
Williams, Bella Jenson each a recitation, instru-
mental music by one of the girls, song "The

[Column 2]

Lingering Lover" Ethel Gertrude Park. One of the
Counselors to Mrs. Mary McAllister, Mrs. Cecelia
Sutherland nee Samuels was honorably released
on account of moving from the ward, and a vote
of thanks given her for faithful performance of
duty; Mrs. Jane Ann Park was appointed
Treasurer in the place of Mrs. Mary Samuels, who
was also honorably released from the position.
Singing and benediction closed the morning exer-
cises. Ample refreshments had been prepared in
the vestry, and the noon hour was profitably spent
in general conversation and the meeting of sisters
and friends socially.
	Afternoon session: opened by singing "Love
At Home," prayer by Elder Sorenson, President
Y. M. Association at Mendon; song, "The
World's Jubilee." Programme third district, Mrs.
Frances Hanson, and Mrs. Mary Ann Birch;
Vivian and Ginevra Hendrickson sang "Bright
Smiling Morning," George and John Home,
dialogue, little Mary Bess, song "I had a little
letter," Vilate Morgan and Maud White, dialogue,
entitled "Jennie and Carrie," Gertie Winder song
"Good Night." Mrs. Cobb presented the name
of Mrs. Anzina Peterson to fill the place made
vacant by the resignation of Mrs. Celestia Hanson
who had moved away. Mrs. Peterson was
unanimously sustained and Mrs. Hanson given
a vote of thanks by the children; Mrs. Cobb
afterwards made some very appropriate remarks
on order, obedience and the result of the same.
Bible questions and answers by Roy White and
Birdie Clyde, Lottie Fowler and Mary Fairborne
dialogue, Pearl Carlisle, song. President Hanson
stated that they had intended to have had a manu-
script paper prepared, but had not succeeded in
getting it into shape, however some of the articles
sent in for it, were read by the secretary, Miss
Belle White. Mrs. Louisa Snedekar sent in her
resignation as secretary, which was accepted and
Miss Anna Bell was sustained to fill the position
of secretary. Brief remarks suitable to the occa-
sion and many instructions were made by Dr. R.
B. Pratt, Pres. E. C.Clawson and E. B. Wells. The
meeting was adjourned with singing and prayer
which was offered by Mrs; Elizabeth Hill, Presi-
dent Relief Society. Morning session minutes
were taken by Miss Nellie Carlisle, afternoon
session Miss Belle White. Both these young wo-
men have been very efficient helps in the Primary
Association. Would there were more of the girls
in Zion would follow this example than there are,
to come forward and render such able assistance
with the little ones in teaching them the ways of
the Lord.


SUFFRAGE MEETING.

	The regular monthly meeting of the Woman's
Suffrage Association of Ogden City was held in
the County Court room, June 3rd, at 4 p. m.
There was a large attendance present and all ap-
peared enthusiastic over the object for which they
had organized and met—the franchise for woman.
Pres. Stanford presided,and Mrs. Sarah Richards,
chaplain, opened by prayer. The minutes of the
previous meeting were read and approved.
	Hon. C. W. Penrose of Salt Lake, was introduced
to the large audience and spoke on the privileges
that should be accorded women. The EXPONEFT
in its next issue will publish a synopsis giving the
principal points and subject matter of the speech
which was a most excellent and telling one.
At the conclusion of Mr. Penrose's speech
Miss Lizzie Ensign sang "The Brook" in a
charming manner, pleasingly accompanied by
Prof. L. D. Edwards.
	Hon. Lorin Farr gave a short address.
	A lively glee was sung by a number of young
ladies under the direction of Prof. Edwards.
	On call for members two new names were ob-
tained on the roll.
	Notice was given that at the next meeting Mrs.


E. B. Wells, editor of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City, would address the society.
On motion the meeting adjourned for one
month.
E. PINGREE, Sec.


SERICULTURE.
	Several young girls were taught the reeling of
silk in Provo at the late Sister Beebee’s residence
and we sent quite a number of the skeins East to
be worked up. The Silk Association of Utah
Stake emigrated a woman, a silk weaver from
England to Provo; who wove dress goods, and
100 Handkerchiefs were made by her and another
sister in this settlement, and we donated 30 yards
of silk goods to the Manti Temple as furnishings.
We sent to the Chamber of Commerce a silk
handkerchief and reeled and spun silk which went
East in the Exposition Car.
	We are now having 50 pounds of Cocoons spun
which we intend making into dress goods. There
is a great need felt for the proper machinery for
manufacturing the silk, but the sisters of this
County do not feel like letting the silk industry
die out, though we realize all new enterprises
have to encounter many disadvantages, but we
still have faith in President Brigham Young's as-
surances on the silk question.
				M. A. TILL, Prest.
				JANE P. JONES, Secy.
	Brother Graves wishes made public in the
columns of the Exponent that Congress last year
donated $20,000 to the silk industry but confined
the reeling of silk to the District of Columbia as
experimental.
	He received this spring from the Department at
Washington, a number of Official Envelopes and
Circulars for distribution, also schedules to be
answered; enquiring the number of trees raised
for feeding silk worms, what experience and suc-
cess heretofore in raising cocoons, and the amount
of eggs wanted which would be furnished gra-
tuitously.
	Brother Graves made it known through the
papers and received applications for the same
from as far north as Cache Co., and to St. George
in Washington Co. Several persons in Provo
have taken eggs it being fully understood that the
market price will be given for all cocoons raised,
or if preferred they will be worked up on shares.
						M. A. TILL,
	President Utah Co., Silk Assocation.
Provo, June 5th, 1889.


WORDS TO MOTHERS.

	The key of the Human Heart is sympathy. The
divine sentiment given more abundantly perhaps
to mothers than to any other class of individuals.
Mothers what a grand thing to be a true mother
in every sense of the word. The mother! The
one who reigns supreme in a home: That guides
the stream of domestic life, and calms the disturb-
ing elements, which often arise in the best regu-
lated households. Her duty is to every member
of that household. To each she should be an af-
fectionate friend, a wise counselor, a kind re-
prover. Her responsibility does not end with her
care for her children, but like the brooding wings
of a dove must her ever watchful heart be overall
within her domains. The girl who washes the
dishes is not a mere machine. She is a living soul,
and though her lot be humble and she may have
been reared in ignorance the mother has a duty to
perform to her, and by a few words kindly spoken
may gain her confidence and perhaps lasting af-
fection, and both will be mutually benefited.
Show her that economy is not stinginess, by tell-
ing her, not to let the soap soak away in the dish-
water, dough enough to make a biscuit adhere to
the mixing pan there to dry and be scraped off
and thrown away, sugar be spilt on the outside of


the sack to tempt flies and be wasted, meal sacks
be left open, kettles be left dry to burn on a hot
stove, preparing of dishwater neglected until
wanted, thereby wasting time and fuel, and allow-
ing dirty dishes to stand to draw the flies, clothes
be left out longer than necessary to switch and be
beaten to pieces by the wind. If her moral nature
has not been trained to the strictest honesty she
may help herself to a few hairpins,the childrens’
garters or other little neccessities of the toilet, and
hot think she is doing wrong. Reprove her by
giving her a few hairpins or an occasional pair of
garters, and tell her to take care of her things and
neither waste her own or your things, and that by
taking care of our substance we can have where-
with to be generous. Tell her instead of all that
cheap satin on an ash colored easily soiled dress,
which she is soon disgusted with, to add the price
of the satin to the material and get her a better
and more durable substance. And instead of
sending for ready made, embroidered, bleached,
easily worn out underwear, to get good strong
factory and learn to make it herself, and buy an
occasional tfook with the balance, and instead of
wasting her leisure in running about with idle girls
and gossiping, to improve her mind with anocca-
sional half hour of good reading. Try to arrange
your work so that not only your own girls but the
hired girl can attend the improvement associa-
tion. This course will bring more intelligence
and a kindlier feeling into the kitchen.
	How often is it the case that the mother of a
large household will arise as weary as. when she
lay down, with so much work of various kinds
that it looks like a mountian. How then is she
to bring order out of chaos? First kneel in thank-
fulness for the protecting care of the past night
also ask for strength and wisdom, for patience and
charity which none need more than a mother.
Then when you begin your labors you will be
astonished at the rapidity with which first one
obstacle and then another is surmounted until
when evening comes you will have accomplished
more than you thought possible in the beginning;
and can again return your gratitude to the dis-
penser of all blessings.
	Oh wives! Oh mothers! Stand not on your
false pride which some mis-call dignity, but stand
on your humility which will not let you fall. Be
kind. Be patient, forgiving and humble. Meet
not your husband with hard hearts and cloudy
faces. No matter if you think you are imposed
upon. Better to be wronged than wrong others
Often when you think your affections are slighted
there will exist in the heart of your husband the
deepest tenderness for you. Perhaps he requires
much more of you than of other members of his
household. Does not our Heavenly Father the
same? ‘To whom much is given much is re-
quired," and “He who is faithful over a few things
will.be made ruler over many things.” Have any
great and noble ones gained an eminence through
luxury and ease? Was the path that our blessed
Savior trod lined with roses? Pray not then for
life’s burdens and sorrows to be removed. Rather
pray for strength to endure and wisdom to guide
you. For only through the vicissitudes of labor,
difficulties and sorrows borne with patience,
charity and humility can we gain that experience
which prepares us to be sympathetic, merciful and
just wives and mothers even queens to reign over
our posterity in righteousness.
							A MOTHER.6


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ENVY. 

	Envy is not a habit; but might be properly
termed a disease, distempter of the mind, that dis-
orders all the faculties of it. It is not contagious
but proves fatal to the peace of mind and happi-
ness of those afflicted with it. 
	An envious person is one that makes himself
miserable contemplating the prosperity of others,


and lamenting his own adversity, his sole object
being to equal or excel his superiors; not so 
much so by exerting himself, or increasing his
own toil and ingenuity, to better his condition, as
by diminishing the merit due to the efforts of
others, while seeking his own elevation at the
cost of another's degradation. He so detests the
sound of praise in any one but self, that if by
chance one extol the virtues of a friend in his
presence, it casts a gloom over his countenance, 
starts the involuntary tear to his eye, and calls
into action, jealousy, revenge, falsehood, and the
lowest passions of the fallen man; and he really
suffers more in his mind and feelings, than if he
was afflicted with the most painful disease, or had
been seriously injured bodily. He is indeed a 
poor creature, and stands sorely in need of the
pity and sympathy of all mankind, from the fact
that his disposition will not allow him to enjoy
himself with anything, at any time, or on any
occasion. 
	Envy is not confined to any class of people, 
neither one portion of the country more than an-
other, but is found existing among the rich and
poor, high and low, and in every land and clime. 
It rages in the breasts of men and women, also
children, and has done ever since the world
was framed. It began with Satan, for after his fall
he could see nothing in Paradise to please him, 
and envied our first parents in their innocence, 
and therefore tempted them to sin. 
	It was this same spirit that caused Cain to kill
his brother Abel, and has been the prime cause of
action which finally terminated in the crucifixion 
of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and has led
to the martyrdom of all the prophets both ancient
and modern. 
	Apostle James says, third chapter; "Where
envy and strife is, there is confusion and every
evil work." And we know that the Lord's house
is a house of order, and that His holy Spirit will
not enter where strife and confusion exist; neither
is there peace and happiness in their midst, and
we are desirous of obtaining both, 
	Envy carries so much venom and poison with
it that it alieniates the affections of families, 
friends, associates, and even raises rebelion
against God. Therefore, we should see the great
importance of watching its approach in all its
disguises, and dislodge it before it finds a resting
or abiding place in our hearts. 
	Let us improve the time and talents giveu to
each, instead of envying that which is our neigh-
bors; for excellence is granted only as a reward
of labor, and the envious hate that excellence
which they are too indolent to reach. 
	It has been said and that truly, "The envier
envies all men and no man envies him.” Let us
banish every evil thought from our hearts and
cultivate the spirit of brotherly love and charity
in our soul to all mankind, by seeking to do good
one towards another, and building each other up, 
instead of pulling others down, that when our
life is ended it may be said of us, "She was in-
deed a true Latter-day Saint, humble to God, 
loyal to her country, kind to her family and friends, 
and benevolent to all."
				MISS AGGIE CAMPBELL.
	Manuscript paper 14th Ward.


RELIEF SOCIETY, ST. JOSEPH. 

	My sisters, it is needless to say that after an
absence of over ten years I rejoice in the
privilege of standing before you to report the
St. Joseph Stake of Arizona, where I have
been called to labor in the interest of the
Relief Society. I am proud to represent my
sisters in that far off land, as being faithful to 
the duties and obligations required of them, as
officers and members of that organization, in
providing for the poor, and administering to
the sick; not only in assisting the bishops re-

[Column 2]
lative to the wants of the needy, but in at-
tending funerals, clothing the dead properly, 
and have also been called upon to  speak
consoling words to the bereaved parents and
friends, explaining that beautiful, inspirational
hymn, composed by our late poetess, E. R. 
Snow, revealing the great eternal truth that
we have a mother in heaven; the Great Latter-
day prophet, Joseph Smith revealing the key
of knowledge to unlock the glorious principle
contained in that most consoling of all funeral
hymns, the pre-existence of spirits. The
Sectarian world with the bible in their
hands calling God, Father, consider it blas-
phemy to say we have a mother in heaven, and
that all the people on this earth are the off-
spring of our Father and mother in heaven.
		"Truth is reason, truth eternal
		Tells me I've a mother there."
	These exalting principles we endeavor to 
keep before the rising generation.
	Excuse me, as I was not called upon to 
preach the pre-existence of spirits, or to prove
the fact that there are women in heaven, but
merely to give a report of the St. Joseph Stake
of Arizona. 	
	We have eight organizations, with two
districts not fully organized into branches, 
numbering upwards of three hundred officers
and members. We hold our quarterly con-
ferences regularly with a good attendance. 
We hold our monthly meetings and take into
consideration the nursing of the sick and
treatment of disease. We are trying to hold
our annual fairs, not only to encourage the
Relief Society, but to develop the talent of
the Y. L. M. I. and Primary Associations, and
keep alive all these organizations. And I
can say for the young ladies, they are a credit
to the Stake; we attend all their conferences, 
and also those of the Primary Association.
	At our last fair we had on exhibition a fifty
pound sack of cacoons, raised by Stake Coun-
selor, Mary L. Ransome of the Relief Society. 
The Sisters also are raising some cotton used
mostly for batting; we have assisted in erect-
ing houses of worship in which we can hold
our meetings until we can build Society Halls. 
We have contributed $49.00 to the sufferers
in the Tennessee Massacre; $50.00 to those who
suffered under the rigid enforcement of the
Edmunds Law; $25.00 to assist a widow to 
emigrate; $300.00 to the Pima Hall built of
brick, which would be a credit to any of the
older Stakes of Zion. 	
	I am pleased to say that much credit is due
the sisters for contributing to the circulation 
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and feel to urge
it upon them to continue, inasmuch as the
Associations cannot keep posted relative to 
their duties as officers without it. 
	President Layton attends all our conferences, 
and gives us that encouragement which tends
to the growth and progress of the organization; 
and being a man of experience in this church, 
has made a success of presiding, and coloniz-
ing, redeeming the waste places of Zion, and
encouraging the Saints in building up the
country. He is aware there is gross misrep-
resentation gone abroad relative to the health
of that Stake; it is one of the finest agricul-
tural countries that the Saints have had the
privilege of colonizing and that our Stake
reports will show. The mortality is not so 
great as some of the older Stakes of Utah. 
The Gila river affords as much or more
water for irrigating purposes than the Provo
river. I have seen a crop of wheat or barley
cut in July, and corn planted on the same 
land, each crop yielding fifty bushels and up-
wards per acre. Doubtless many of you are 
acquainted with Philemen Merrill and Wm. 
McBride, who are our patriarchs, together
with their worthy wives, they send kind re-
gards to their numerous friends.


Sister Syrena Merrill is located at St. David
110 miles, where, in connection with her hus-
band, they have not only acted as missionaries,
but as saviors to all who would give heed to 
their counsel.
	Suffice it to say that President Young
labored for twenty-five years; to colonize that
land, keeping missionaries there among the
Indians; and we expect to build up cities to
the name of the Lord, and fulfill the predic-
tion of the prophet Brigham Young if needs
be, with our own emigration, as our enemies
have not the power to stop them from coming
to the earth.
							W. EAST.

	P. S.---Since I came up I have not only attended
the sisters' meetings in Salt Lake City, but also
the sisters' conference in Wasatch Stake, and
afterwards was invited by the Bishops to speak
in the Sabbath meetings, in Charleston and
Wallsburg.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
MEETINGS AT FILLMORE.

     On May 25 the Primary conference of
Millard Stake was held at Fillmore, commenc-
ing at 10 a.m., Stake President Mrs. D. Olsen
presiding.  The house was well filled with the
children and parents.  The exercises were well
given, and did great credit to the local Presi-
dents and those who had the training of the
little ones.  The Stake and local authorities 
were present, and President Hinckley in a 
brief speech expressed his great pleasure and
satisfaction with all he had heard; encou-
raged both teachers and children to go for-
ward in the good work, and prayed God to
bless them in all their efforts.
     At 2 p.m., the same day, the Relief Society
of Millard Stake held a quarterly confer-
ence at Fillmore; Mrs. E. Yates presiding;
assisted by her counselors, Mrs. Thompson
and Mrs. Robinson.
     The conference was well attended, and the
reports from the various wards were most
favorable.  All the wards were represented.
     President Yates congratulated the sisters
upon their zeal and good works among the
sick and the needy, and gave much excellent
advice, as did also her counselors, and Stake
secretary Mrs. D. Olsen.
     President Hinckley spoke highly of the work
the sisters were engaged in, and encouraged
them to continue zealous and faithful, that the
Lord might bless them.
     There was a large attendance, and the con-
ference was most interesting and instructive,
an excellent spirit prevailing throughout the
entire meeting.
     At the close of the Relief Society conference
at 4 p.m., A WOMAN SUFFRAGE MEETING was
held, the greater part of the women remain-
ing.  A preliminary meeting was held the
previous evening, when a committee was
appointed to consider and report upon a Con-
stitution and By-Laws for a Woman Suffrage
Association for Millard County.
     On Saturday afternoon the general meeting
was held and the Constitution and By-Laws re-
ported upon by the chairman of the committee,
Mrs. E. Henry.
     The meeting was opened by prayer, the
chaplain, Mrs. McBride officiating; the chair-
man of the day, Mrs. D. Olsen presiding.
The committee retired to decide upon the Con-
stitution, and during their absence, at the re-
quest of the chairman, Mrs. M. A. Y. Green-
halgh delivered the opening address and
stated the object for which the meeting was
convened.  Gave a brief sketch of the struggles
by women for their rights;  quoted Senator 
Blair and others, to show that it was not a 
favor they were asking, but simply the rights
of every citizen to vote for the men who make
the laws, under which they live and must

[column 2]
obey, pointing to the many noble men and 
women who throughout the civilized world
were laboring earnestly and faithfully for the
same.
     On the return of the committee with the
Constitution and By-Laws, they were read and
submitted to the meeting by the chairman, and
were unanimously adopted.  An intermission
of fifteen minutes was then taken, for the en-
rollment of members, to which 45 responded
and paid the membership fee, which had been
fixed at 25 cents.
     The meeting was again called to order, and
the election of officers proceeded with.
     The association is to be called "The Millard
County Woman Suffrage Association,"  with
Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh as President;
Mrs. D. Olsen, Mrs. Eugene Dalbrook, Mrs.
Melissa Olsen, of Deseret, as Vice-Presidents.
Mrs. E. Henry, Treasurer; Mrs. Lois Hamp-
ton, Secretary; Miss Mary Anderson, Assistant
Secretary, and Miss E. Henry, Corresponding
Secretary, with an Executive committee of
nine, so that all the settlements in the County
are represented in the officers.  The Constitu-
tion adopted is the same as that by the associa-
tion in Salt Lake City.
     Mrs. Greenhalgh again briefly addressed the 
meeting; thanking them for the honor conferred
upon her, and urging upon them the necessity
of unity, for in this only is strength, which in
the end must prevail.
     Mrs. D. Olsen read a very interesting essay,
subject, "Woman's Right to Vote and Her
Ability to use It."
     Mrs. Yates, in a neat and interesting speech,
spoke forcibly upon the subject of "Woman,
Her Labors, and Her Ability, Together With
Her Present Disabilities," and called the at-
tention of the meeting to the work which had
been done and is still being done, by noble
men and women in the cause of freedom and
of right.
     The meeting was a success, all appearing
satisfied with the choice of officers, and the
proceedings generally.
     The meeting terminated at 6 p.m., and was
closed by prayer by Mrs. D. Olsen.
				M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.


ADDRESS TO BISHOP ATWOOD.

	A few moments ago a friend said to me,
“Come and go with us to celebrate the seventy-
second anniversary of our esteemed Bishop,
the roast and feast are all prepared." Well, I
said, if I do, I must take my offering with me,
and here it is—a thought or two—and I was
reminded that forty years ago, in hard times, I
borrowed a wash tub of his wife; then a
stranger to me, but I have known them well
ever since. He was then on a mission. After
forty years of acquaintance what can I say?
I ought to say something, and that something
I am proud to say, is this; that Bishop Millen
Atwood has been everything that one consis-
tent person could ask of another. As a neigh-
bor he has been obliging; as a friend, friendly;
as a father, interested; as a bishop, he handles
your means as prudently and as carefully as
his own; and in fine we may say, that he is
one of the noblemen of the earth. Early to
rise, early to work, and his long life has been
a life of toil.
	His experience has fitted him for his bishop-
ric, hence, he is able to acknowledge the hand
of God. He was a pioneer to this our moun-
tain home. Here he turned the sod, and
prepared the desert to yield support to man.
And God heard his and others’ pravers, until
he sees the hosts around. Did he aid in this?
Yes, he in foreign lands, foot sore and weary,
delivered the message of the Gospel; still afoot
across the plains, he gathered the humble, and
chosen few.
	His chapter is too long to tell in a short


story, but we will aid him on with our love,
faith, and prayers, until he reaches a still higher
seat with the Gods, and is crowned with life
eternal. My friends, now while he lives, and
his head still whitens, may we follow his wise
counsel, and thus be prepared to continue our
acquaintance hereafter. And we pray that
his last days may be most happy and peaceful.
					DR. E. S. BARNEY.
May, 24, 1889.


MRS.  L. D. ALDER’S ADDRESS.

		TO THE W. S. A. IN OGDEN.

	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:—I
am little accustomed to public speaking, es-
pecially on the subject of Politics. Our Asso-
ciation in Salt Lake has been organized nearly
four months; I think we have done well, con-
sidering the up-hill work we have had.
	The advancement and education of woman
is one of the main topics of thought and con-
versation among the thinkers of to-day. As
women, we have our family ties, our home
duties, and so many cares upon us, which make
us very weary. It has been said,
	“Man's work, is from sun till sun;
	Woman’s work, is never done.”

	We, most of us, realize this truism; but,
my sisters, though we have all this upon us,
we need not let our thoughts stay with the
menial offices of life.
	While we are in the kitchen, while we ply
the needle, our thoughts can soar as high as
heaven; and we can study upon, and even
think out a subject that engages our interest.
To us as mothers, is entrusted the well-being
(or the opposite,) of immortal souls. Beings
who are destined to live forever. Can this be
successfuly done by the mere care of the
bodily wants ? Must we not think of the
culture and advancement of the mind, the un-
dying intelligence within us? It is not for the
sake of voting only, that so many noble women
such as Mrs. Colby, Mrs. Stanton, Susan B.
Anthony, Mary Livermore and others, have
toiled a life time. 
	A propos of the fact of possessing the
ballot is the power it confers. Women are
naturally pure, noble minded, and would there-
fore vote for men who are also noble minded,
to enforce its laws. In fact, the laws should
be made by good men then they would be good
also. Women should take more inter-
est in the politics of the day. I know that
men say that politics is a dirty puddle in which
pure woman should never dabble. We cer-
tainly could not make the puddle more muddy
ihan it now is; and I believe it would be
cleansed of much of its corruption, by the
wise use woman would make of her influence.
	How shall we become companions to our
husbands and sons if we cannot be interested
in what so interests them?
	A very dear friend of mine, who has long
been a staunch suffragist, told me of an inci-
dent which occured in the life of a friend of
hers. He was a well informed, intelligent, and
highly educated man; his wife was equal to
him in all these attainments. They lived
happily as companions for many years. In
the course of time he was sent as a govern-
ment minister to France; as they had children
he thought it would be best for her to stay
and take care of the family, and of their
beautiful home on the Hudson. The husband,
of course, in the line of his duties, met and
conversed with intelligent men of many nations
upon the topics of the day, government, law,
and all the thousand questions that interest a
man in that position. The loving wife living
quietly in her home on the Hudson, kept him
informed of the welfare of the children, the
home and surroundings. When he returned


at the end of two years, he found that his
thoughts no longer interested his wife; he tried
to tell her of the many experiences he had, the
momentous questions which had been before
him, and the cares which had weighed upon
his mind; but she could not be interested;
her thoughts were narrowed down to the home,
while his encompassed the events of the world.
It grieved him to find that they were no
longer companions; and in speaking of it to
her, he said he had made the mistake of his
life in not taking his wife with him.
	We can take this incident and many that we
see around us, and shape our lives accordingly.
	There is a new era dawning for women all
over the world; and it behooves us, here in
Utah, where we have been disfranchised, to be
up and doing; and be prepared for the better
day, which is not far distant.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SANDWICH ISLAND LETTER.

		TO MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

DEAR SISTER:
	Deeming it of sufficient importance that I
should give a short synopsis of our labors in
the Relief Society on the Sandwich Islands, I
submit the following.—At a general confer-
ence of the Church on these Islands held in
October 1888, I was called to preside over the
Relief Society of the Hawaiian Mission with
Sisters S. Y. Gates, Nellie Beesley and Libby
Noall as Counselors, since which time we have
done all we could for our Hawaiian sisters.
	At our late conference held April 6th, a
general conference of all the Societies were
called. I herewith enclose a statistical and
financial report in which it will be seen that
out of the twenty-seven branches now organized
we have seventeen only reported. We have
organized three more branches during the last
six months.
	Representatives from the different branches
made favorable reports showing that most of
the members were active and attended their
meetings. Were it possible for us to visit all the
branches on the Islands we could do much good.
We, have been enabled to visit the sisters
on this Island, with good results; teaching
them habits of industry; many of whom show
an aptitude, and are quite expert in braiding
and making hats, piecing, quilting, knitting
and crocheting, in which they take more in-
terest than in housekeeping, though we have
shown them, inasmuch as circumstances would
permit, the necessity of this. Heretofore the
husbands and fathers have done the most of
the cooking, but foreign customs, habits, and
industries, leave no time for the exercise of
former vocations; hence the necessity of Ha-
waiian women learning kitchen duties. I have
been very much pleased and gratified
with the success that has attended our labors;
there is a marked improvement both spiritual
and temporal among our Hawaiian sisters.
	The return of Sisters Gates, Beesley and
Noall, whom you will likely have the
privilege of meeting will give you more partic-
ulars concerning the progress of the good work
than it will be possible for me to write. With
kind regards I subscribe myself,
		Your Sister in the cause of Zion,
						LUCY M. KING.
	Laie, Sandwich Islands, April 16th, 1889.


A PROGRESSION BACKWARD.

	Ward McAllister, the famous field-marshal
at the Four Hundred, though he succeeded in
bringing himself and his following into merited
disfavor by his and their social flunkeyism be-
fore the centennial inauguration ceremonies, de-
serves more than passing commendation for his
blunt use of the terms “men” and “women.”


If the country will but agree to follow his
fashion in this sensible particular, there are few
who now despise his haughty exclusiveness
who will not be tempted to grant him generous
pardon for all past offences against the popular
democratic idea of what American society
should be. When he spoke of one of his antago-
nists as "that man Fish” he gave, unconscious-
ly or not, a striking example of the strength
and vigor of the English language; and when
he spoke of the “men and women” chosen for
the centennial quadrille, he jumped at once into
a popularity which was perhaps as unexpected
as it was unfamiliar to him.
	We are reminded every day of the effeminate
deterioration of the mother tongue in the use
of less healthy words for the plain old lan-
age which has beoome so dear. It is now
“gentleman” for every human being of the
male persusasion; “lady” for every daughter
of Eve beyond the age of pinafores; and these
two in all sorts of absurd combinations, which
only add useless syllables in order to make the
terms more ridiculous. If an editor and his
wife take a little trip his brother journalists
say he is accompanied by “his lady.” If the
editor happens to be a woman and she is es-
corted by her less prominent husband, the
notice would probably read, “Mrs. So-and-So,
and her gentleman.” If the papers are to
be believed, men have ceased to travel with
their wives now-a-days; in fact, men have
almost ceased to exist. We have a race of
gentlemen and ladies, some of whom perch on
the highest roost of society, while some clean
the boots and scrub the steps.
	If there is any virtue in anniversaries, we
ought to be reminded in this centennial year,
that pure old Anglo-Saxon was good enough
for the patriots and is still better than any
counterfeit. A step back in this respect would
be a step forward. If there is any word in
our language nobler than “man” it is “woman;”
and nothing can be better than these two unless
it is “husband" and “wife.”—Standard.


MISCELLANEOUS

	Forget mistakes; organize victory out of mis-
takes.—Robertson.
	Tears are often the telescope by which men
see far into heaven.—H. W. Beecher.
	God always has an angel of help for those
who are willing to do their duty.—Dr. Cuyler.
	Each feels himself happiest where he can use
his special gift, and labor in the calling as-
signed him by God.—K. V. Gerok.
	Reason cannot show itself more reasonable
than to cease reasoning on things that are
above reasoning.—Sir. Philip Sidney.
	To maintain an opinion because it is thine,
and not because it is true, is to maintain thy-
self, not the truth, and so to prefer thyself
above the truth.—Venning.
	In all things throughout the world the men
who look for the crooked will see the crooked,
and the men who look for the straight will see
the straight.
	Resolve to edge in a little reading every day,
if it is but a single sentence; if you gain fifteen
minutes a day, it will make itself felt at the end
of the year.—Horace Mann.
	None are so fond of secrets as those who do
not mean to keep them; such persons covet
secrets, as spendthrifts covet money, for the
purpose of circulation.—Colton.
	A white garment appears worse with soiling
than colored garments do when much soiled; so
a little fault in a good man attracts more at-
tention than great offenses in bad men.
	The most knowing man in the course of the


longest life will always have much to learn;
and the wisest and best, much to improve.—
Shaftesbury.
     Mrs. Fry, in responding to the address of 
welcome at the Texas State W. C. T. U. con-
vention recently, said: "Men and women must
stand side by side in the home, in the church,
in the schools, the colleges, in all trades, pro-
fessions, business and in the government.  The 
cry of help, help! is going up to God in a thou-
sand different pleas.  Oppressed women,
drunkards’ wives, women in houses of illfame,
the poor, starving sewing women, the prisoners,
slaves in vice, are all bound  by the chains of
sin and shame, which can only be broken by
the energy and zeal of true men and honest
women.  We want men and women to stand
side by side for good."  This is sound
doctrine, and seems to have been well received.
The far South is awaking.				Ex.


OBITUARY.

     Dear Sister.—It becomes my painful duty to request you
to publish the death of our esteemed sister, Anna
Jenkins.  She left her native country, Cownbuck Aberdare
South Wales; and arrived in Salt Lake City, August 20,
1868; she moved with her family to Cache Valley; after-
wards removed to this place.  She died May 13, 1889.
She was treasurer in the Relief Society here ever since
our first organization, and was a very active member,
a true Latter-day Saint, always on hand to do good; was
highly esteemed by all her acquaintances.  The members
of the Relief Society at her funeral, which was largely
attended, formed a procession in advance of the remains
from the house, to the meeting house, a block long.  Ap-
propriate remarks were made by the brethren.  She leaves
three sons, three daughters and forty-one grand-children,
to mourn her loss.
				Reapectfully,
					M. D. DAVIS, President R. S.
Samaria, Idaho.	May, 27, 1889.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY  GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAL FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 18.			SALT LAKE CITY,  UTAH,  JULY 1, 1889.			No. 3.


CONTENTS.
	Hephzibah—A Story. Visit to Primaries.—H.
Madson. True Value---M. E. Kimball, Fault
Finding---M. E. T. Faith---Susie Stephenson
Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL: Lucy W. W. Hayes. The Old
Folks at Ogden. A Remembrance.—L. W. Kim-
ball. A Tribute to Grandma Smith.—J .P. M.
Farnsworth. Morgan County W. S.. A.—Miss
Delia Smith.	
	Woman Suffrage, Hon. C. W. Penrose—at the
W. S. A. of Ogden. R. S. Reports: San Juan
and Snowflake.
	POETRY: Comfort for the Mother.—Augusta
Joyce Crocheron. Birthday Offering.—L. M. Hew
lings. Lines Dedicared to The Old Folks.—A. C.
In Memoriam.


COMFORT FOR THE MOTHER.

The following was written to Mrs. A.R. Shaw of Ogden,
on the death of her infant son.

	A flood of light the midnight filled 
 		And every sound to silence stilled,
	And right before the mother stood
		A stranger, mighty, pure and good.
	He looked into her anxious eyes
		Watching the varying feelings rise,
	And knew her soul’s calm, steadfast truth
		And all her blameless life from youth;
	Then answering her eyes of prayer
		He opened one white hand, and there
	Lay three rich jewels, Oh, more bright
		Than e'er had met her mortal sight.
	And ere she yet could understand
		He laid them in her trembling hand.
	“Study their beauty well" spake he,	
		“They are thine for all eternity."
	Lo! by their light new life began,
		New thoughts through all her being ran,
	While ecstacy thrilled through her frame
		The stranger gently spoke her name.
	And as she raised to him her eyes
		Took from her hands the precious prize;
	“The Father sent these but to show—
		What 'waits you while through life you go,
	Safe in the keeping of His love
		They shall be yours again, above.”
	Nor artist’s power nor poet’s spell
		The	words he taught could keep or tell,
	They went beyond the things of earth
		To where the mysteries have birth;
	Teaching why wrong and sin should grow
		They took from sorrow half its woe,
	Why the soul’s idols turn to clay
		And God’s own gifts are drawn away, 
	And how, though thorns bestrewed her path
		Her soul its guardian angel hath.

	Then, when the holy guest was gone
		A lesser light came, it was dawn.
	Like one alone yet fearing not—
		Silence—with sacred meaning fraught,
	God’s blessing seemed so near her there
		Life’s dullest burdens seemed no care,
	For that sweet sense filled all her soul
		And lightened, strengthened blessed the whole.
	Was this life zealot’s faith, ideal?
		No, by His blessing this was real,
	Stripped of the curse by childlike faith
		Earth wounds pain less, no trials scathe;
	And while the mortal still endures,
		Through deeper tests still strength assures; 
	Just as the heart of His own Son
		Bore suff'ring ’till his time was done,
[column 2]
	Not for wrong doing but to prove
		The soul God guards, naught else can move.

	The days went on and oft she thought
		Of the bright gems the stranger brought,
	Smiling to know their light should shine
		Her own ’mid splendors all divine.
	And strove that outward grace to win
		Worthy the grace of soul within;
	Yet only half their meaning knew—
		I hat splendors cast their shadows too.

	Heaven remembered her and gave
		The gift her riven heart had craved,
	A babe, whose wondrous eyes revealed
		Pure mysteries from earth concealed,
	Their silent beauty almost speech,
		Diviner truths and love to teach.
	They led her soul 'mid earthly scenes
		Forgettiug earth, where—downward leans
	The Unseen—so close to the veil
		It almost touches spirits frail,
	Worn faint with trial ’til the breath
		Through joy or woe—is kissed by death—
	And there her soul heard other things
		Just as the blind feel passing wings!
	So, day by day they lived until
		Life seemed so fitted to God’s will
	And prayer the sceptre; 'neath its sway 
		Real, grateful bliss filled each fair day.

	Day hath its end, its night; souls, too,
		Have lost their sun of life from view;
	No hands that lift, no voice that calls
		But vainly on the darkness falls
	Until His hour. However lost
		In sorrow’s wild, His love hath crossed
	The trackless waste, He knoweth where
		The mourner kneeleth in despair.
	O, mourning mother! Not alone
		Thy riven heart in sorrow's moan.
	Not bitter only, is thy lot.
		Thou hast not been by heaven forgot;
	No stain of earth had marred the name
		Of that fair boy thy soul did claim, 
	No fault had dimmed those beauteous eyes,
		Too bright were they for these dull skies;
	Thy boys—lo—God hath taken them,
		Thy jewels, thy soul’s diadem.

	Remember her, that mother pure
		Who didst the agony endure
	On Calvary's hill; thou know’st in part
		The anguish of her sacred heart.
	Thrice blessed is that home wherein
		The shad’wy wing of death hath been;
	Thou hast had joy, possession, love,
		Now, each of these, lifted above
	Earth’s marring or its robbing, bear
		Their witness to thy portion there
	Where blessings past and present all
		Upward ascending ever call
	The tireless soul and wearied feet
		With them before His throne to meet.

	The sweetest voices earth hath known
		Were those attuned to sorrow’s moan,
	And nearer sanctified are they,
		Where grief hath washed in tears away
	The idle thoughts of cloudless hours.
		Forgetting how, for sins of ours
	The only Sinless, bowed his head,
		And would, with Mary wept her dead.

	Not wind and wave in furious storm
		Snatched from thine arms his precious form,
	Not stealthy foe nor cruel flame
		Thy lovely babe had power to claim,
	Not blighted by long suffering
		Ere the loosed soul its flight could wing—
[column 3]
	Rejoice, O, mother! In thine arms
		Death could not thrill him with alarms;
	His last sweet words were unto thee.
		Thine the last face his eyes could see,
	Safe in our mountain home he sleeps;
		While the wide world still onward keeps 
	It’s headlong course of pride and wrong
		Warring ’gainst Truth with hatred strong—
	O! better in that little grave,
		With mission ended, spirit saved. 
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, June 13th, 1889.


HEPHZIBAH.
				II
	"Truth is stranger than fiction.”
	He grew quite enthusiastic on the subject,
and bye-and-bye said to his son, “it may be she
will marry her cousin Elisha and have the
homestead, and we shall see the village pros-
per again, for Elisha will have money.” This
was too much for the father, who, though
poor, compared to his eldest brother, was
proud, and replied bitterly, “No! he would
scorn a village girl, and my brother’s son
shall not look down upon my child.”  “Ah,
well, well, how foolish to differ about her mar-
riage on the day of her birth, strange indeed;
I cannot understand why we should thus drift
off into the future of one scarce yet initiated
into life; it may be all owing to her name.”
“It may be,” said Grandpa quietly “but it is
many a long day since I have been so aroused
as to dwell upon the future of any one, not
even my own sons, and to be thus exercised is
“passing strange.” And so the two—father
and son talked on; a channel of communica-
tion opened between them, that had been
closed for years. From that very day the old
Major seemed to have taken a new lease of 
life. The advent of the little stranger had
indeed created a change, and he watched her
from day to day, fancying he could see some
resemblance to that other Hephzibah for whom
she was Christened. As soon as she was old
enough to run about he insisted that she
should remain with him at the old homestead.
Much as the parents esteemed him, they could
not consent to such an arrangement, but
allowed little Hephzibah to visit at the old
home regularly with one of her elder sisters.
His love for the little one was so strong he
could not endure to be separated from her, but
kept her near him in the musty, old, deserted
house, until she was about as antique in her
manners as the aged veteran himself. When
other little girls were sewing “over and over”
or hemming by a thread, she would sit and
tell them long stories, and amuse them by the
hour together, and when they asked her where
she learned so many pretty tales, she would
answer, “In the old manor house,” talking to
herself. Poetry unwritten was in  her heart
and soul, and the realities of life were a perfect
blank to her ideal nature. Her practical
New England mother wondered what could
be done to bring the child down from the
airy heights, where she soared unconsciously,
to the level of the earth, and make her under-
stand the need of actual labor, in the work-a-
day world. Her hair, which was a mass of
bright brown waves, was never smooth, and
her white dimity aprons, made so neat and
nice, were soon crumpled and soiled; “generally


[Column 1]
untidy" was her mother's idea of the child's
appearance. At school, however, she progressed
rapidly, and was a favorite with her playmates;
but at night, she kept the household wide-a-
wake with her memorizing ballads and impro-
vising meaningless rhymes. Thus time passed
on; the semi-annual visits of the eldest son
from Boston continued as regular as ever, and
it came to his ears that little Hephzibah was
to be the heiress of the treasures and jewels of
his dead mother; it nettled him sorely, for he
had plead in vain to obtain them for his wife.
His father would never consent that any one
should ever possess them save those of his own
blood, and so he had thought his daughter
would some day inherit them, "Why not?"
he said to himself, "it is the proper thing and
in the direct line." He could not bear the
thought that the youngest son's daughter should
ever wear his mother's jewels. He was too
haughty to do more than barely recognize his
brother, and as for the wife and children, he
never deigned to notice them. One summer
when he came as usual he brought with him
his son Elisha, who, not knowing his aristocra-
tic father’s aversion to the villagers, romped
and played with his country cousins. The
grand-father was delighted, and inadvertently
said to his son one day when he happened to
see him with little Hephzibah, "That boy had
better marry his cousin Hephzibah and take 
possession here when he's of age." "My son
marry that country cousin of his? Never! I
would disown him. Let her marry one of her
own class." This quite enraged the old Major
who knew full well that her father was much
more honorable and generous than his city
brother; and not only so, but that the younger
son's wife was of a much better family than
the other daughter-in-law, and his hot temper
rose, and he replied, "She is too good for your
son, for now I remember who his mother was."
Angry words followed between the two, and
they were never afterwards reconciled to each
other. Little Elisha did not comprehend why
his father was not willing he should play with
Hephzibah, and persisted in being in her com-
pany, and begged his father to leave him in
the country, because he should be unhappy if
he must go back to Boston without his favorite
cousin. His girl cousin, however, was not
nearly so fond of him, in fact. she loved to
play by herself, and ransack old closets and
garrets, or wherever there were old things, for
which she seemed to have an unbounded  pas-
sion. She would sit for hours together among
the rubbish and dress her dolls and talk to
them as if they were conscious of all she said. 
She dwelt as much in a world of her own, as
did her aged grandfather, and they suited
each other admirably. Out of doors as well
as in, she enjoyed every nook and corner. The
orchard resounded with her sweet voice in
merry song and laughter, and there was not a 
tree she had not climbed. Her mother would
sometimes say, speaking of the fanciful child,
"Hephzibah has no more idea of eating and
drinking regularly, than the fairies and wood-
nymphs of which she is always talking and
dreaming." "Her ways are shiftless" she
would invariably add, "and that is what the
world will never overlook.” But the matter
rested there, and the child grew more unlike
other girls every day. She could not appre-
ciate her mother's fears and apprehensions
about the future, and while she was left to her
fine-spun fancies, and grandpa's curious stories,
with the old house and grounds to ramble
through at will, she cared not; an unsophisti-
cated child of nature, with a mind so rich in
imagery that all the earth wore radiant robes
of glory for her, and the star-bespangled
heavens, were mysteries she never cared to
have explained, but only to gaze on and wor-
ship from a distance. Little she dreamed that
in a few short years, life would reveal itself in

[Column 2]
a thousand glowing transports, and alas! in all
its cold and hard realities as well; but so it
proved.
	Ere long an event transpired that changed
all the current of Hephzibah's life. Her
father died suddenly, without a settlement of
any sort for his large family. The widowed
mother with three younger children, and not
one old enough to render much assistance in
the way of help or support, was more than
ever engrossed with the cares of life. Alas!
how heavy fall such burdens on women.
	The widow left so utterly dependent, with
ten children looking to her maintenance, took
up her burden heroically and never faltered.
Some said "The children's rich uncle will pro-
vide for them," But Mrs. H.—always an-
swered "No! we do not want his money; but if
I were a man with power to act, I would see
they had their own, of which he has robbed
them.” And this was true, for the eldest
brother taking advantage of the old Major's
idiosyncracies, had managed to obtain possession
of all his ready means, and used it in his own
business and then represented that he sup-
ported his father, and consequently all there
was worth claiming belonged to him alone.
One of the sons had died while quite young;
another gone, they knew not whither, for he
never wrote nor sent one word to comfort his
aged father; and the third lived a gay bachelor
life in the city of Boston. Neither of these
cared for the paternal estate, nor the heir-
looms of the family, therefore the eldest son
had full sway after his youngest brother's
death. He had always been annoyed about
his large family, and living so near the old
home, he feared his influence, but now he
breathed freely again, for he was gone where
he could no more trouble him about worldly
affairs. Inwardly he congratulated himself
that the "coast was clear," although he made
some pretensions to a desire to help the widow
and lighten her load of care.
	The widow really thought that in considera-
tion of the circumstances, the uncle would
take Hephzibah to Boston and educate her,
but no such offer was made, nor any hint of
such a thing given. The very next morning
after his brother's funeral, the rich merchant
bade them all good-bye ceremoniously, and
without a word of consolation, left for his own
luxurious home, knowing too that they were
entitled to a support at least, from the estate
he had charge of.
		      [to be continued.]

[Column 3]
meetings with only those she brought with
her. By the way, Indianola being so isolated,
the people greatly appreciate the too-seldom
visits of missionaries.
	Sister Felt's kind encouragement, seemed to
sink into the hearts of those who listened to
her. They appreciated her visit very much.
Little Vera Felt, who accompanied her, added
to the enjoyment of each meeting, with a
sweet recitation.
	We were received with the greatest kind-
ness and cordiality wherever we went. We
were greatly prospered and blessed on our
visit, and feel that the knowledge of God and
His ways, is increasing with our children.
His gifts and blessings are bestowed upon
them in rich abundance. There is a strong
attachment between the officers and members
of the Primary Associations.
	(We witnessed one touching, little episode on
our visit to Spring City. Their President,
Emma Robinson, had been bedfast for two or
three weeks. In the evening, the Primary
children, surrounded the bedroom window
and sang some of their beautiful songs. Sister
Robinson was moved to tears, and yet she
could not refrain from joining in with the
children in their praises to God, as she has
done so for fully nine years or more. After
the singing, many of the children crowded
around her bed, to press her hand and ask
God's blessings upon her.)
	Sister Felt expressed herself as being satis-
fied with the Primaries of Sanpete Stake, and
her visit to them. 
	Our manly little driver, Freddie Swalberg,
of Gunnison, did all that he could to speed us
on our journey. He took excellent care of our
team, and never missed a meeting. 
	Earnestly praying that our heavenly Father
will bless the Primaries in Zion, and all who
spend time, means, and labor for the advance-
ment of our precious children.
			We remain,
		HELENA MADSEN, Stake President,
		SARAH METCALF, Secretary,
	GUNNISON, June 11th, 1889.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


VISIT TO PRIMARIES.

	On the 6th of May, Sister Helena Madsen,
President of the Primaries of Sanpete, accom-
panied by Sister Louie B. Felt, President of
the Central Board of the Primary Associa-
tions, Counselor Lucy Berglund, and Stake
Secretary Sarah Metcalf, started to visit the
Primaries of this Stake, holding the first meet-
ing in Gunnison. There are 18 Primaries in
the Stake, which have been holding meetings
continuously, except where sickness hindered.
The meetings were exceedingly well attended;
notably in Fountain Green.
	The children in their exercises and be-
havior, manifested excellent progress; their
officers, in general, being energetic and solici-
tous for the welfare and advancement of their
precious charges.
	Sister Hulda C. Hjorth, President of the
Indianola Primary, furnishes a remarkable in-
stance of perseverance in the Primary cause.
She lives four miles from the meeting house;
in fact she lives in Utah County, about a mile
over the boundary.
	She takes a team and wagon and gathers up
the children on the way, and often has held


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Alice Stone Blackwell, edits The Woman's
Column, No. 3, Park Street, Boston, Mass.  It
is a weekly and but twenty-five cents a year,

	Every woman ordained to preach the gos-
pel, by any church or ecclesiastical organiza-
tion, is a legally suitable person to perform the
marriage ceremony.

	May 20th, the House of the Connecticut
Legislature passed the bill giving women the
right to vote on the question of the sale of in-
toxicating liquors.

	A proclamation was issued by Governor
Warren, of Wyoming Territory, for an elec-
tion of delegates to a Constitutional Conven-
tion to meet September 8.
	
	Mme. Carnot, as the first lady of France, is
as popular as she is beautiful; but both she
and her husband, Count Carnot, the President
of France, never use their titles.  She says,
“no title can be higher than that of President
of the French Republic, because that name
cannot be separated from the history of
France.
	Among all the competitors for the first prize
in the schools of San Francisco, it was won by
a girl, Miss May Ayers. The prize was a
ticket to the Paris exhibition and return. She
has sailed with her mother for Europe,
from New York, visiting Chicago en route.
This is quite a victory for the girls, and proves
the oft repeated assertion, that the brains of
girls are not inferior to the brains of boys.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY OFF'RING.

Wand'ring fancy backward turning,
	Lifts the curtain from the years;
Bridges o’er the long line travel’d,
	Mid its changing hopes and fears.
'Til we stand upon life’s threshold,
	Enter’d with unconscious tears.

There receiving royal welcome,
	Feted with the choicest fare;
Clothed in robes of finest texture,
	Wrought with skill artistic, rare.
Cherished, blessed, caressed and sheltered
	Ministered unto with care.

Thence thro' mornings bud and blooming,
	Green with gold and blue with white,
Blending into rainbow colors,
	Scenes of gladness and delight.
Until each revolving season
	Seemed a fairy land of light.	

Now beyond life's noon advancing
	Leaving childhood's rosy dawn,
And its glorious ideal,
	Gushing springs of magic charm.
Passed into the living real,
	Wearing off the bloom of morn.

With uplifted eyes we question,
	Has the real more of bliss,
Has the fount of knowledge given,
	Measure full for sweetness missed,
Off'ring stones for bread delicious,
	Hard, cold, facts for rainbow mist?

Still from sixty-five three hundred,
	One bright day is set apart;
One fair gem from each is numbered,
	And with special favor marked;
Held in grateful mem'ry ever,
	Treasured safe within the heart.

Like a peaceful benediction,
	Comes a day in "Merrie June,"
Lifts the soul to fields elysian
	All the universe in tune,	
All the discord of life's friction,
	Banished with its doubt and gloom.

Thus we blend in song and story,
	These anniversary days; 
Give to each an added glory, 
	Fresh with laurel green with bays,
That shall breathe of friendship holy
	In a psalm of perfect praise,

Fragrant with sweet incense ever,	
	As from Eden wafted down,
One by one these leaves we gather,
	Wreathe them into fairy crown,
Treasure trove, that ne’er shall wither,
	While the wheels of time move round.
							L.M. HEWLINGS.
Atchison Kan.


TRUE VALUE.

	What is truly valuable, or in other words,
what is of the most value to us? Some ap-
preciate those friends who have the most
money, because in the hour of need they
would benefit them, which is sometimes the
case, but not always. Did you ever see a
person who could not use all the money he
had, and more if he had it? Accordingly
people are not always charitable; for business
is business and must be attended to, at the
proper time; and the old adage is “Charity
begins at home.” We should learn from
this that it is well to become acquainted with
the business affairs of life while life lasts.
But knowing as we do, that life is short at
the best, we often cast a longing eye on the
other side, and ask ourselves, “How will we
find matters there?” and “What pursuit is
best calculated to prepare us for our exit to
the next state of existence?”
	We are told by our forefathers, both in the


Bible and Book of Mormon, that sound
principle, a pure life, and honorable dealings
with our fellows, is the right course to take
while we are here; as this course of life will
bring to us happiness both here and hereafter.
We are told that God made man in his own
image, and he possesses of His attributes.
	We can see readily that this is the reason
that persons who are upright, honorable and
true, are looked upon as being God-
like, and are deserving of our reverence and
respect. We have confidence in their word,
believing they will do as they wish to be
done by under like circumstances.
	This class of people I feel to call the
nobility of the earth. They may live in a
log house with a dirt roof, as I have found
them under pressing circumstances, yet they
were the true nobility of the earth, because
the principles they cherished, and the sacri-
fices they would make to aid and help the
oppressed, drew forth my love and admiration
for them; knowing that God our Father
claimed them as His own; for surely these
were God like principles.
	Is not this true riches, and of greater value
than all the precious metals combined? Yet,
if a person may possess both it is well, provid-
ing he has that spirit which giveth wisdom,
and enables him to be a wise steward.
	Is not this spirit then of the greatest value,
for without it, he is liable to misuse and
abuse these blessings, so that they even prove
a curse instead of a blessing, by yielding to
temptation, and then to folly, and finally to
crime.
	I think every thoughtful and reflecting
mind can see this clearly, and will eventually
know how to choose, and how to conduct
themselves, especially if we ask aid of this
good spirit, for we surely have help in our
upward course to heaven, and again in the
downward course; there is help in either
position.				M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, June 16th.


FAULT FINDING.

	There is nothing that destroys the happiness
of a home, so quickly and completely as fault-
finding. It is an enemy to peace and con-
tentment. Persons who indulge in this habit
of finding fault at home with those they love
the best, forget that home is the place to make
happiness, and to make this earth an Eden.
One fault finding person in a family can make
a home so miserable, that its members are
glad to go abroad to the neighbors to seek
that comfort which is denied them by their
own fireside.
	What young lady would wish to be num-
bered with the fault finders? Surely none!
Young ladies can do much toward making
home pleasant for their brothers and younger
members of the family, by being kind and
gentle, displaying their company manners at
home with their parents and brothers and
sisters. They can take a great burden from
the shoulders of their weary mother, by assist-
ing to take care of, and teach the children
lessons of good behavior, helping them with
their school lessons, selecting appropriate songs
and recitations for the Primary, getting them
ready to go, and in a thousand different ways
can a thoughtful, loving daughter, make the
burden light for her mother,and be a sunbeam,
a joy forever in the home.
	Girls, don’t find fault if your parents cannot
provide everything you think you want, be
grateful for what you have, and be willing to
labor for what you want. Not only should
girls be willing to work for themselves, but if
their families are in needy circumstances, they
should be willing, and thankful to be able to
assist them.


I fancy I hear some young lady say, "Oh!
it's a pity if my father can't keep me; I'm not
going to live out and earn my own living."
They are too proud for that, and think it a dis-
grace to be self-sustaining.  Girls who talk in
this manner do not look at life and labor in
their proper light.  Labor is honorable; idle-
ness dishonorable.  Girls who have an inde-
pendent spirit, scorn the idea of being depen-
dent, and consider it far more honorable to be
self-supporting, than to be a burden to an aged
father, who has perhaps, worn himself out
providing for his family while they were unable
to take care of themselves; and now when
they have grown to womanhood, and are
abundantly able to earn their own living,
why should they not be happy in doing so;
and if necessary, help to repay the debt they
owe their parents?  Do our parents owe us a
living when we are able to earn it ourselves?
Doee the world owe us a living?  I think not.
I think we are indebted to our parents for our
existence.  Jehovah decreed, that "man should
earn his bread by the sweat of his brow."  and
he further said in the Doctrine and Covenants,
that the idler should not eat the bread of the
laborer.  Let us not want something for
nothing, but let us labor faithfully, and
earnest labor will bring a sure reward.
							M. E. T.


FAITH.

	Faith is one of the firrst principles of the
Gospel.  "By faith we live, move, and have
our being."  We are told "If any are sick
among you, (you) should call for the elders of
the Church, they should anoint them with oil;
and the prayer of faith shall heal the sick, and
the Lord shall raise them up, if they are not
appointed unto death."  But there is still an-
other promise: "If they die, they die unto
me, and if they live, they live unto me, and if
they have committed sins they shall be forgiven
them."  This promise causes me to reflect a
great deal on this principle, and ask myself
the question—how it is that so many among
us, as soon as they are sick, send for the doc-
tor?  If the doctor is a friend, all right; for
the Lord said further: "If ye have not faith
to be healed, you shall be administered to
with mild herbs, by the hand of a friend—not
an enemy.  We read in the eleventh chapter
of Hebrews: "Faith is the substance of things
hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.  By
faith the worlds were framed, by faith Abel
offered sacrifice to the Lord, by faith Enoch
was translated, without faith it is impossible to
please God."  I could rehearse a great many
more evidences on faith, but this should be
sufficient to awaken our thoughts to the im-
portance of the cultivation of a principle so
essential to our life-work.
					SUSIE STEPHENSON,
	Manuscript Paper, Nephi.


Mrs. Z. D. H. Young recently made a tour
of Sanpete Co.’ in company with Mrs. M. A.
Hyde, and Prest. Peterson and wife.
	Clara Barton is still as active as ever.  Her
humane work was carried on in Paris after the
fall of the Commune.  When the Mississippi
overflowed its banks in 1884 she appeared,
laden with relief.  Her work in America,
additional to what has been mentioned, has re-
lieved the sufferers of the Ohio floods, Michi-
gan fires, Charleston earthquake, Texas drouth,
Mount Vernon tornado, and now the awful
calamity at Johnstown.  She is president of
the American Red Cross Society.  The motto
of the American branch is: "Relief in war,
famine, pestilence, and other national calami-
ties."


20        WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
Woman’s Exponent.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	- 	Editor. 
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to 
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
					SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, 					JULY 1, 1889.


LUCY  W. W. HAYES.

	A telegram from Freemont, Ohio, announced
the death of Mrs. Hayes, wife of Ex-President
R. B. Hayes on the 25, of June.  The lady died
at half past six in the morning, after an illness of
three days caused by paralysis.  Deceased was
born at Chillicothe, Ohio, August 28, 1831, and
was the youngest child of Dr. James Webb
and Maria Cook; her grandfather, Judge Isaac
Cook, came from Conn., in 1781, and her great
grandfathers fought in the Revolutionary War.
Her father served in the war of 1812.
	Miss Webb was married to R. B. Hayes, Dec.
30, 1852.  During the war of the rebellion, while
her husband was serving in the army, her home
was a refuge for the wounded, sick and furloughed
soldiers going to or returning from the front.
She spent two winters in camp with her husband
in Virginia, and after the battle at South Mountain
where he was badly wounded, she joined him at
Middleton, Maryland,  and also spent much time
at the hospital near Frederick City.
	Of her life at the White House, it is well known
that she distinguished herself by her cordiality
and amiability of manner.  She was highly com-
mended by temperance people, during her four
years sojourn at the White House, for never
allowing wine upon the table.  This fact alone,
shows what her strength of character must have
been, to succeed in carrying out her purpose in
opposition to the custom of society, and the
etiquette of the White House table.
	When we were in Washington in the winter of
1879, Mrs. Hayes was specially kind and consid-
erate, and tender in her feelings toward our sis-
ters, and free from prejudice on our question.
The writer was one of a committee of three to
call upon President Hayes, from the National
Woman Suffrage Convention, and present the
 Resolutions of the Suffrage Association. Mrs.
Sara A. Spencer read them and he smiled as
she read he was reproached for his neglect in
failing to menton the political, civil, or social
rights of women.
	After this part of the interview was
over, we succeeded in securing an appoint-
ment for an audience with the Presi-
dent on the Mormon question.  It was then
he brought his wife in and introduced her to the
party.  Mrs. Zina Young Williams accompanied
the writer and will remember as she does the
pleasant manner in which "the greatest lady of
the land," greeted us and the interest she mani-
fested in the matter we came to present; Miss
Grundy, the writer of society articles for the
Washington papers at that time (since deceased)
says "Mrs. Hayes heard the Mormon wives with
such earnest sympathy as to completely win their

[Column 2]
hearts.  She listened and spoke to them in a
sisterly manner that aroused in all present a feel-
ing of reverence for her noble,womanly nature.  She
invited the party to visit all the private apartments
and when they left sent them through the con-
servatories."
	When Mrs. Hayes visited Utah with her hus-
band in his trip across the continent she was also
very kind and courteous to Mormon women.  The
writer was one of the number who went to Ogden
to meet the Presidential party, while we were be-
tween Kaysville and Farmington Mrs. Hayes sent
and invited the ladies of the party to visit her in
her own car, and we all rode with her to the City.
She looked the very picture of elegant simplicity.
She was presented while here with a homemade silk
lace fichu as a souvenir of her visit, and a remem-
brance from the Mormon women of her attention
to them in Washington.  She was a noble and
generous woman, kindly in feeling and charming
in manner, she captivated all hearts.  We shall
always cherish her memory tenderly and we
deeply sympathize with the bereaved family, and
trust they may find such consolation as can only
come from One who heals all our sorrows if we
bring them to Him.


OLD FOLKS IN OGDEN.

	The Old Folks excursion went to Ogden on Wed-
nesday, June 25, celebrating their annual custom.
Their destination was Lester Park, where all had
been previously arranged by the committee,
who always take the greatest pains to make all
these nice old folks comfortable and have a good
time.  No pains is spared and really the old seem
to dwell upon it with fond anticipation each year.
There were about seven hundred from Salt Lake
and Davis Counties, and something near as
many more from Weber, Box Elder, Cache, and
Summit Counties. 
	It is quite an interesting sight to see so many
aged people together, and the Ogden people
gave them a royal reception.  The Ogden Brass
Band was on the streets when they arrived and 
gave them a hearty welcome.  The old folks
were conveyed in carriages and buggies to the
Park from the depot, and there everything was 
in order; long tables filled with good things and
decorated with flowers were all in readiness, and
young girls clothed in white waited upon these
happy old people.  The Plain City brass band
was also on hand, and played stirring music.
Everything passed of pleasantly, as it ever has
on these occasions, and the Committee must feel
gratified with their work.
	It is a beautiful custom thus to honor the vet-
erans annually, and make them feel they are
not forsaken.  Many of them are jubilant on these
excursions giving expression to their gratitude
for the privilege thus generously granted them.
The people give liberally for these festivities,
and the old folks are just as delighted with their
presents as children are with toys; and indeed
they are very often more for show than use.
There are many funny things said by the witty
ones, and the committee enjoy the jokes and
repartee heartily.
	However it is painfully sad and serious, as well
as enjoyable, and causes many solemn reflections
to pass through the thoughtful mind.
	The EXPONENT adds its congratulations, and
wishes for them one and  all a pleasant and
 peaceful voyage towards the setting sun of their
days upon the earth, and a glorious heritage here-
after, with an abundant entrance into the kingdom
of our Father, whose pity and care is over all,
and who will not let a sparrow fall without his
notice.  God bless the old folks forever, and
long live the Old Folks' Committee to devise
ways and means for their enjoyment each year.


LINES DEDICATED TO THE OLD
				FOLKS.

The dawn of life's morn, has long passed away
To the true, honored, veterans assembled to-day; 
Their sun is fast setting, in splendor to rise, 
In a far brighter land amid sunnier skies. 

Their springtime and summer, are now with the past, 
Both autumn and winter, approaching them fast; 
And the lonely still hours of life's closing day, 
Should surely be brightened with a kind, loving ray. 

O, then let us bless them, while they are here, 
Before they have passed to the other sphere; 
For they've borne the burden and heat of the day, 
In the conflict of life, their locks have turned grey. 

They've labored and toiled, in this once barren place, 
Built cities and towns that our valleys now grace; 
They've conquered the Desert, and made it to bloom
As Nature's sweet garden, in richest perfume.

They've stem'd the swift tides, when the billows rolled
	high
That crushed other barges in weakness, to die. 
Their path has been strewn with the briar and thorn, 
That leave sad traces of what they have borne. 

They've travel'd life's journey, almost to the end, 
Let us cheer their lone hearts as they slowly ascend, 
And bid the kind Angel to watch them with care, 
And tenderly guard, each silvery hair. 

For lonely 'twould be, were we sadly, bereft
Of the dear OLD FOLKS, and none of them left
To guide and direct, the wav'ring youth, 
In the pathway of virtue, of love, and of truth. 

O, treat them with kindness, and never once slight, 
Their gentle tones whispering, "do what is right."
Their words, we'll remember in some future day, 
When, one by one, they have all passed away. 

And let us remember, that we must all tread, 
The same path, traveled by the hoary head, 
And then shall we feel December's, cold breath, 
As we hasten towards the portals of death. 

May they who have parted with life's dearest friend, 
And are left with God only, on whom to depend, 
Find solace and comfort, in each lonely hour, 
For the most brilliant sunbeams follow the shower,

And may heaven bless the dear aged ones,
His noble daughters, and His loyal sons, 
And lengthen their days until life has no charm, 
Then bear them home safely, to rest from all harm. 
										A. C.


A REMEMBRANCE. 

MY DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I linger in this beautiful place after my pleasant
task is done, to thank you for sending me Nov., 
1st, 1888, of the EXPONENT, I appreciate not only
your candid outspoken reference in relation to 
the book "Reminicenses of the Latter-day Saints,"
referred to during our transit from Provo to Salt
Lake, but I appreciate very much lines written on
"Trials and happiness," by E. B. W.  As well as 
those written by O. F. Whitney to his friend
Hebe, they find an echo in the soul and will be
placed among my choice secelections. 
	My enjoyment was marred at the Provo Con-
ference by being called out to attend to some
special business and then again to take the Train. 
Oh the changes a few years have wrought, the
many faithful Veterans of a few years ago who
have been called hence leave a fearful vacuum. 
Among the number, Ma Smoot, Sister Emily
Smoot, Sister Ruia Holden, Sister Margaret Cluff, 
Sister Jane Gee, and Sister Hester Beebee, and
yet the various institutions and societies of which
they were active members, move on in the hands
of other faithful ones, who have been called to fill
their places, Sister John with her Counselors M. 
E. Daniels and Sister Emily G. Cluff, now repre-
sent the Presidency of Utah County, Sister
Caroline Daniels, the faithful Secretary. Eleven
years have passed since she was appointed, hav-


ing never been absent from her post except once, 
although her health is now, and has been during
the past winter, very poor, still her indomitable
energy urged her out to fill her place, too feeble 
though she was, to go through entirely, she mani-
fested her interest in the work by her presence.  
	I now wear silk manufactured by the irre-
pressible Sister Beebee and her aids.  
	Sister M. A. Till and Sister Goodman with 
Sister Saunders and others whose names do not 
now occur to me, are still interested in that 
branch of industry.  I see Father Graves is still 
deeply interested, would have liked very much to 
have heard him through his remarks on that in-
teresting subject. 
	Thus it is in the magnificent plan of Jehovah, 
the work rolls on, and is not retarded by the 
summons to another sphere of any individual. 
			Very truly yours, 
							L. W. Kimball. 
	Logan temple, Cache Co., Utah, June 27, 1889


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE TO "GRANDMA SMITH:"

	Mrs. May M. Smith, was born Aug., 24th, in 
the year 1804, at Crieff, Perthshire Scotland. 
Died of old age on the 15th, June 1889, in Beaver
City, Beaver Co., Utah, aged 84years, 9 months
and 22 days. 
	She has lived the life of a true, sincere Latter-
day Saint, since joining the Church in her native 
land in 1854.  She came to Utah with the Hand-
cart company in 1856; suffering the want, priva-
tion and hardships, incident to that long, tedious, 
never to be forgotten journey, without a complaint. 
Encouraging friends and her dear ones all the way 
(she was then a widow with six children,) never 
losing faith in the goodness and mercies of 
Heaven and trusting implicitly in God for aid and 
protection through every affliction in life.  
	To me, from early childhood, she has been or
seemed,a very remarkable woman, one of nature's 
noblest models.  Being endowed with superior 
intelligence and having acquired knowledge that 
few with her advantages have attained.  She was 
a woman of unbounded faith and unimpaired prin-
ciple, humble and charitable in the most minute 
extent.  She was a thorough logician, a historian 
in the scriptures and biographies of great men 
countries and people.  Being a constant, intelli-
gent reader, and an honest, earnest thinker; she 
was a pleasent, agreeable conversationalist a just 
and noble friend.  
	"Grandma Smith," as she was lovingly and 
familiarly known in our City, has for the past ten 
years made her home in my father's house with 
her daughter, May B. Murdock; and up 'til within 
the last year, could read and write with a clearness 
and beauty, that few middle-aged people display. 
When she became stone blind her strength of 
character, her grandness of soul became most ap-
parent; that purity and excellence which is the 
birthright of the truly good man or woman here 
showed in all its simplicity, yet doubly great for 
'twas of an ethereal, intrinsic quality.  Not a single 
murmur escaped her at this last calamity, she 
meekly bowed to the will of One "who doeth all 
things well."  When I once said to her "grandma 
'tis too bad that you are deprived of your sight 
when 'twas so great a pleasure for you to read and 
write."  She replied "no Julia, God knows best 
and He has always been merciful and kind to me 
and mine, therefore, I will cheerfully and patiently 
bide His time 'til He calls me home." 
	She was at the Manti Temple last September 
with all her children, and had satisfactorily 
finished her work in the House of the Lord.  She 
was sick but eight hours, died as it were going to 
sleep.  She leaves one son Robert Bain, Smith-
field, Cache Co., May B. Murdock, Beaver, Beaver
Co., Mary S. Anderson, Rexburg, Idaho; Jane S. 
Coleman and Betsy S. Goodwin, Rabbit Valley,


Sevier Co., Utah.  All are true Latter-day Saints,
worthy representatives of a genuine mother, and
a just reward for the indefatigable efforts and
teachings of that grand old lady, whom all will
miss, yet, none mourn, for we know her rest is
peaceful and her mission well and nobly finished.
		Affectionately,
					J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.
	Frisco, Beaver Co., Utah June 22nd, 1889.
Logan Journal please copy.


MORGAN COUNTY W. S. A.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	On June 22nd, 1889, according to a call made
by a number of the prominent women, of the Co.,
a Mass Meeting was held at Morgan City school
house, for the purpose of organizing a branch
of the Woman Suffrage Association.
	On motion Mrs. Lydia Rich was appointed
Chairman, Miss Delia Smith, Secretary and Mrs.
E. Worlton, Chaplain.  Prayer was offered by the
chaplain, when Mrs. L. Rich stated the business
of the Meeting, and referred to the struggles that
have been and are still being made by our sister
women of the nation.  Said it was strictly a politi
cal movement and all are invited to join in peti-
tioning for our rights. The following women were
then unanimously sustained as officers of the as-
sociation.
	Mrs. H. C. Smith, President; Mrs. E. C. E.
Francis, first Vice-President; Mrs. Cleveland,
second Vice-President; (with Mrs,Addie Hunter
alternate providing she will not act as she was not
present at the meeting,) Mrs. Mary Ann Edding-
ton, third Vice-president. 
	Miss Delia Smith was sustained as permanent
Secretary; Miss Lovenia Francis, Corresponding
Secretary; Mrs. Jeanetta Hogg, Treasurer.
	The following women were then sustained as
an Executive Committe:  Mrs. Emma Clark,
Mrs. E. Wild, Mrs. Avilda Dickson, Mrs. Jane
Brough, Mrs. Louise Carigan, Mrs.Lena Edholm,
Mrs. Sarah Wardley.
	The Constitution of the N. W. S. A. was read
by the Secretary and adopted.  The By-Laws and
Regulations that were adopted in Salt Lake City
by the Utah W. S. A. were then read by sections
and adopted with one amendment viz. The By-
Laws and Regulations of the Morgan Co., Asso-
ciation.
	The organization having been effected the
Chairman announced that speeches would be in
order.
	Mrs. Smith being called responded in a short
address.  Thanked the ladies for the honor they
had conferred upon her, and hoped to be able to
retain their confidence.  Her heart was enlisted
in the Woman’s cause, never could see why wo-
men should be subject to laws she had no hand
in making, nor ruled over by those not of her
choice, that men and women should work together
politically as well as religiously and socially, said
there was a wide field in which women could be
profitably employed,thought they could materially
aid in correcting many of the evils of the day.
	Mrs. E. C. E. Francis then being called made
some very interesting and pointed remarks con-
cerning the object of the organization. Thought
the women had never abused the right of suffrage
and thought its being taken from them a great in-
justice &c.  There were several speeches made
and meeting was brought to a close, prayer by
Chaplain.
					MISS DELIA SMITH, Sec.


﻿			WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

HON. C. W. PENROSE AT THE W. S. A. OF OGDEN.

	I do not understand that the organization of
the ladies of Utah at the present time is to win

[Column 2]
back for themselves alone those political privi-
leges of which they have been deprived; but
to labor with all the rest of the women of the
country who are interested in the question for the
purpose of securing to women generally in the
United States those political rights which they
should enjoy as citizens of the United States.
The Government in which we live is supposed
to be a government of the people.  It is a gov-
ernment of the people, by the people and for
the people.  There was a time when there was
a dispute as to women having souls, but I think
that day is passed.
	I do not believe that any person who is at all
acquainted with the principles of the govern-
ment will dispute that a woman is a citizen.
Not only is she a citizen, but every woman who
becomes the wife of a citizen becomes by virtue
thereof, according to the laws of the United
States, a citizen herself.  So women have in
one respect a little advantage of the men.  No
matter how long she has resided here, if she
marries a citizen she becomes a citizen.  But
although a woman is called a citizen, and is
expected to perform the duties of a citizen as
far as she can and is subject to the law, still
she is deprived of any voice in the government.
She has no right to vote for an officer of the
government—unless, it may be, in some local-
ities they are permitted to vote for school
boards; and in one or two places for municipal
officers.
	In the Territory of Wyoming women can sit
on juries and serve as officers if their fellow
citizens feel inclined to elect them.  In the
Territory of Utah, ladies once held the right
of suffrage, but not the right to hold office.
Although women were entitled to vote, here
they were not entitled to hold office as the word
"male" is retained on the statute.  While as-
sociating with other members of the legislature,
I at one time attempted to get this word
erased, so that women might be placed on an
equality with men—not that I believe that wo-
men are qualified to act as Presidents of the
United States or judges or other executive
officers.  Perhaps some lady will disagree with
me in that respect, but I am open to convic-
tion if she wants to undertake to convince me;
but I am good deal like the Irish lady who
said "I am open to conviction but be my sowl
I would like to see the man that could convict
me."  (Laughter.)  It was not because I
thought they were qualified to hold office that
I desired to have the word erased; but I be-
lieved that there should be nothing on our
statute books which discriminated against any
portion of our community.  And that it should
be left to the good sense of the community to
select what offices women should be elected to
fill, if any.  I think every woman should vote
and have equal rights with the men at the polls;
and for this reason: that every woman is a
citizen, if she was born in the United States, or
naturalized, or the wife of a citizen, and she is
just as amenable to the laws.
	Now if a woman should steal (of course wo-
men would not steal, they are such nice crea-
tures) she is subject to punishment just the
same as the man; and so if she became intoxi-
cated (of course she would not).  If a woman
holds property she will have to pay taxes.  You
don't find any discrimination in that.  Under
our statutes women are permitted to hold pro-
perty.  A woman is an entity; she is a citizen
and can hold property in her own right.  Any
woman can hold any property which she ac-
cumulated before marriage.  It does not pass
from her to her husband as under the old com-
mon law.  As a woman can hold property in
her own right and must pay taxes upon that
property, she ought to have some voice in the
government as to the disposition of the revenue
derived in part from her property.  There are
a great many arguments—no objections—


[Column One]

against women voting; one is that women can
not be drafted into the army, and therefore
should not vote. Well have you not found
some men who would not make good soldiers?
They say a woman is not suitable for this, and
that she is not suitable for that and so on. A
great many of the arguments brought against
the women can also be brought against the
men. There are only a few men who are fit
to be leaders.
	There are certain leaders in the world that
have a peculiar force of character and in-
tellect. It will be so always in this world, and
I believe in the other. There is one intelli-
gence above another as there is one star above
another, and the greater will lead the less. All
of the objections which can be brought up
about women can be brought against men.
There is no reason, I think, why women in this
country should not have a right to vote. There
is another reason I have, and it is this: The
laws of the United States have given the fran-
chise to the colored people. I know a great
many women who are more fit to exercise this
franchise than the colored people. Go among the
people of the south and mingle with them and
see what a low order of intelligence exists,and
you will see thousands who have no idea of
the principles of this government who have the
suffrage, while thousands of intelligent women
are denied it.
	But if we will analyze all the objections
made against woman suffrage we will find that
there is no real basis for them. They say that
it will degrade a woman. How? They say she
will have to mingle in the crowd and be jostled
if she votes. Well does she not mingle with
the crowd when she goes to the theatre, in the
store, in places of business generally? Does she
not travel up and down the same thorough fares
and sometimes have to sleep in the same
sleepers? Are they demoralized by that? Not
a bit. They should have equal rights and
privileges. At one time there was a great deal
of ridicule when the women tried to study for
the profession of medicine. Now do women
become doctors? Yes, and no particular noise
is made about it. And so with every profes-
sion—we find women lawyers. Why, women
operate in Wall street in New York. Some
say it is unwomanly. Why should the woman
not have a right to make money if she has
the ability? There are many things that women
are adapted to and so with men. Now let me
make a little explanation with regard to this
matter in which there is  a great deal of mis-
conception, that is that citizenship and suffrage
are the same thing. It is a great mistake.
There are a great many citizens who do not
have the right of suffrage. No person can vote
except he be a citizen, though in some states
persons who have declared their intentions to
become citizens can vote, but as a rule no per-
son can vote unless he is a citizen. Qualifica-
tions, however, are different in different states
and each state has a right to form its own
local laws regulating the right of suffrage and
the qualifications of voters. That shows that
citizenship does not carry with it the right to
vote. Voting is a privilege, and not a right
and suffrage comes by a grant from the legis-
lature.
	I observed in reading some of the young
ladies’ journals discussing this matter, that
they are going to be superior to men. There is
to be a perfect revolution all over the United
States, the ballot box is to become purified,and
the government is to be purified, and all move-
ments which now actuate the people are going
to be obliterated. Everything is going to be
lovely, and, I suppose, to use an old phrase,
"The goose is going to hang high” (laughter).
I hope my friends in Ogden will not entertain
such nonsense. I believe that women will have
a right to vote, and that when they do there
will be no perceptible change. The principles

[Column Two]

of government will remain the same, and there
will be the same kind of struggle for office,and
the same kind of motives to gain office as there
is now. There is a prejudice and it is nothing
but a prejudice in the United States against
woman suffrage, and it grows out of that old
condition in which we existed under the old
common law, where the man was the head and
body of the house, and when woman married,
she lost her identity.
	I do not believe that women will be elected
to be judges of the Supreme Court of the
United States, or commanding officers of militia
or constables or anything of that kind. The
good sense of the community will select the
offices which they are the best qualified to fill.
Don’t you think a woman can be a treasurer
as well as a man can? There are women who
are fit to be treasurers, and I know of some who
handle the revenue of a city, county or other
government better than some men I have met.
I think certainly that the good sense of the
community would select such an office for the
women as they can fill with honor and profit,
but executive and judicial offices, if I had con-
trol of things, should only be occupied by men.
The female mind is not judicial. Women
generally jump at conclusions, and what would
sometimes take a man an hour they observe in
an instant. In judicial affairs it takes reason-
ing. You ask a woman any question and her
answer is “because.” They jump at conclu-
sions. They don’t count the steps—it is hop,
skip and jump; and often they light right on
the mark. There are offices which women can
fill and a good sensible community would de-
termine what those would be; and therefore I
think the time will come in the United States
that the people will have seen that as a govern-
ment of the people, all the people should have 
the right to vote.
	I want you to understand me clearly, if I
can make it plain to you: In your operations
to obtain the right to vote or hold office, you
should not make the claim as a right; it is not
a right, it is a privilege granted by law.
	I think there is another mistake made by the
ladies in their efforts to obtain this privilege.
That they are endeavoring to obtain an
amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. I believe in Democratic principles.
This is a government in which certain things
are delegated to the general government of the
United States, and there are other powers
which are retained by the respective states.
This is the government for the government of
the United States. A number of states, each
of which is sovereignized in its own sphere, are
joined together in the general government, and
have each given up a portion of their rights to
this general government; and one of the rights
which belong to them and which still remains
is the right to regulate the suffrage. The gov-
ernment of the United States derives its
powers from the Constitution, and it has no
powers and can exercise no powers only as they
are defined in that instrument; and under that
it has no power to regulate the matter. And
so when the women go to Congress and want
the Constitution amended,or the regulation for
voting to be altered, they are working against
the fundamental principles of the Constitu-
tion.
	Ladies and sisters, gentlemen brothers—we
are all brothers and sisters, Jew, Gentile, all
who dwell upon the earth are the children of
the great Father. We are all brothers and
sisters, for God created of one blood all nations
that dwell upon the earth. We are all
children of the great Father. So I say ladies
and sisters, gentlemen and brothers—in your
efforts move upon a sensible line. Do not fol-
low the multitude to delusion or folly. A great
many things are being done and said. You
who are organized need not follow the ladies of
the United States into paths of folly and non-

[Column Three]

sense. You want to study principles of gov-
ernment—and that is one of the important
things I think this association should enter
into. I think you will get a greater interest in
your meetings if they do this. Take up prin-
ciples of government, municipal government,
county government, state government, and
then national government. You ladies should
study these things. And another thing if they
never understood these things how can the
mother teach her boy the true principles of
this government, if she does not understand
them herself. Every boy has a political right
to be President of the United States, and who
knows but your boy may become president?
You can’t tell. Curious changes take place.
You want to understand these things so as to
teach them to your children. We should
teach our children to be obedient to the law.
No community can have order without law—
without law there is no peace, and without
peace there is no happiness, and the foundation
of happiness is laid in law.
	The great difficulty with a great many
parties is that they are not subject to restraint.
They want to run wild. There is a spirit of
independence we must not indulge in our child-
ren. The principles of law should be under-
stood by the mother so that she may teach
them to her son, and that they may have a
disposition to understand what law is. When
you come together let some ladies whose minds
run in that direction take up some principle of
self-government and explain it for the benefit
of the others. We should study these prin-
ciples, and if we find any weak places, find out
how they can be shunned. We want to build
up this government, not tear it down. We
want to establish a good government.
	When you get the ballot use it wisely—
not as a little bit of paper of no worth, but as
something of great inportance. Many of the
men in the states go to the polls like cattle
driven by men. I have heard of men being
carried to the polls, a ticket thrust into their
hands and held until they had given it to the
judge and then hustled out. I do not think wo-
men will do this, but I can’t tell. I think they
will try to understand what they are voting for,
and I think they will vote for good and wise
men. That they will find out the best men for
offices—find out the persons best fitted to fill
them—and then vote for honest men, wise men
and good men. By way of preparation for
that, learn to understand priciples of law and
the principles of government of each little
town, of localities, of the territories, of the
states, of the nation, and then go on if you have
time enough to learn inter-national law, the in-
tercourse between one nation and another.
Use your intelligence for good, virtue, order,
peace and the maintenance of good order, and
the establishment of good government. Women
have a good deal of power which is unseen.
Woman’s power does not consist in rule and
dominion; but in that quiet domestic influence
which she exercises at home. If you do not
get the suffrage, your position is just as essential
as the position of men. You can never be men
if you try to be. There is no use trying. I
have heard women say “O I wish I was a man
only for a few minutes.” There is as much
chance to do good, as you are. Neither can
get along without the other, but the Lord has
designed that they should go together. Nature
has pointed out the path, and we see it in every
form of creation, in the fruits, vegetables, trees,
and in everything there is male and female.
	If there is anything which you are deprived
of, struggle for it. Ask for it, it is your privi-
lege. Do not claim that you are so much
better than the men; but contend for the prin-
ciples of sound reason, contend for the privi-
leges you ought to have as American citizens;
and I tell you, if you can only convert your
own sex you can secure the rights of suffrage.


How many ladies in Weber County are in-
terested in this move? Convert your sex first.
It is only the minority of women that are seek-
ing to obtain the suffrage. I shall be pleased
to see the day when you shall have this privi-
lege granted you. May the day soon hasten, I 
shall hail it, and shall be very thankful to see 
women placed on an equality with men.


﻿WOMANS EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S.,Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS.

		SAN JUAN STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this Stake, was held at Bluff, May 26,
1889; President Jane M. Walton presiding.
Singing "My God The Spring of All my
Joys."  Prayer by Counselor Wm. Halls.
Singing, "Zion Stands by Hills Sorrounded,"
Roll called.  Stake offioers present, five; local
officers, seven.  Minutes of last conference
read and approved.
	President Jane M. Walton made brief re-
marks.  Said she felt at home with the sisters;
prayed God to give her strength to fill her
honorable position; thought our conferences
were to strengthen us; was sure if we lived up
to the duties required of us we would become
great women.  The general and local officers
of the Relief Society were sustained.
	Presidents of the different branches gave
their reports which showed a marked improve-
ment in most places, which was most gratify-
ing.
	President Kristen Nielson reported the Bluff
Ward Society; also bore her testimony and
hoped to be faithful and true.
	Counselor M. M. Halls of Mancos felt she
had quite a responsibility in reporting all
the associations of that place, but was willing 
to do all in her power.  Said the Society was
not in so flourishing a condition as at last con-
ference, owing to the late disease that had
visited their town, namely, smallpox.
	Abigail Stevens said she had not been home
since last fall conference, her home being in
Burnham; but had corresponded regularly
with the Secretary.  The Society held meetings
regularly; they owned a stand of bees; the
teachers are doing a good work.  "We should
be careful how we train our children; teach
them not to interfere with that which does not
belong to them.  We should always be exem-
plary before them and guard our tongues, and
be careful what we say.  We should always
take a course to gain confidence.
	Counselor Daniel Allen reported the Moab
Ward Relief Society; said he had visited the
Society; they had done very well considering
inconvenices, the average attendance being five
members; they have some little property.
	President Jane M. Walton reported the
Monticello Society; the sisters felt to take hold.
Hoped the time would come when the Society
could be fully organized.  Wanted the
branches to store up grain.
	Counselor Martha Hammond addressed the
conference.  Related her late visit to the gen-
eral conference in Salt Lake City.  Knew the
faith and prayers of the sisters would give us
strength when trying to speak; said the sisters
should not speculate with their grair. She
had been given a mission to get the sisters to
take the EXPONENT, there are instructions in
that paper that we need.  Prayed God to bless
all.
	Counselor Josephine C. Wood, said she felt
well in the Gospel; felt we should be humble
and prayerful,and try and overcome our weak-
nesses; knew if we  were always thus, we 
would be able to stand the trials we are called
to pass through with more patience.  Wanted
to do her whole duty, and hoped she would
always be found on the side of right.
	Bishop Jens Nielson of Bluff, felt to endorse

[Column 2]
all the sisters had said.  Thought the
brethren should join the sisters in train-
ing  the children and carrying out their
praise-worthy ideas.  Hoped the instructions
given during this conference would sink
deeply into the hearts of all; asked God to
bless the society in all their undertakings.
	President J. M. Walton made some closing
remarks; hoped the sisters would all attend
the next conference.  Exhorted the brethren
to go and take them.  Spoke of the duties of
mothers to their children, and the amount of
influence a mother has over her children.
	President F. A. Hammond felt there was a
good influence prevailing.  Said the instruc-
tions were excellent at the late conference in
Salt Lake.  There is a movement on foot to
unite the sisters with the Woman Suffrage
society that we might gain strength.  Endorsed
the remarks in regard to taking the EXPO-
NENT; the sisters should take, and thoroughly
read it.  Urged all the society to get good
books; felt that it could not be impressed too
strongly.  Wanted the sisters to teach tithing.
Mothers! teach your girls to be help-meets;
find something for them to do; idleness comes
from an evil source.  Teach them to be self-
sustaining, and not wait for a man who is
able to keep them in ease and luxmry.
	Conference adjonrned for three months, to
meet at Moab.  Singing, "Now We'll Sing
With One Accord."  Prayer by Counselor
Wm. Adams.
	SARAH JANE ROGERSON, Stake Secretary.

		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
was held at Snowflake, June 1st, 1889.  Presi-
dent Emma S. Smith, presiding.
	After a few opening remarks by President
Smith, Sister Mary J. West addressed the
meeting, and spoke of the time when the Snow-
flake Society was organizad, and the course
they had taken to accumulate property.  The
success that had crowned their efforts thus far,
she considered was due to the faithfulness of
the members; and for the peaceful feeling that
existed among them, considerable credit should
be given the head teacher, Sister Jemima W.
Smith.
	Sister Lucy H. Flake said: "The first thing
for us to do, is to do the will of the Lord, and
He will make up to us all we lack.  All of us
have missions to perform, and we should seek
the Holy Spirit to direct us."
	Sister Ann Brewer felt that the young peo-
ple have great blessings and privileges, greater
perhaps than the older ones, as all their pros-
pects are before them.  Urged them to attend
all places of instruction, and improve their
time in learning things of value, as it will
enable them to do a vast amount of good.
	Sister Fannie J. Willis spoke a few mo-
ments; was thankful for the return of con-
ference days, and the privilege of seeing faces
not seen for a long time.
	Counselor Sarah Driggs then addressed the
meeting, on the subject of taking care of the
means in the Society.
	Amelia Cardon bore her testimony to the
truth of this work, and said it will develop all
the good there is in us.
	Counselor Emily J. Lewis said: "We are
living in a day when people are tried, but
whatever may try us let us never deny any
principle of the Gospel, for they are all pure.
Let us try to be one, let us cease to do evil and
seek to keep the commandments of God, and
He will bless us.
	Sisters Sarah Cope, Anna I. Farnsworth,
Mary Savage and Martha Stratton also made
remarks.	
	Frances R. Thompson, Susan E. Allen,
Mary Peterson, Mary D. Farnsworth and


On Monday, June 24, a Woman Suffrage
Association was organized in Manti, for San-
pete Co. Mrs. Ellen Jakeman, President.
Full particulars are expected from the Cor-
responding Secretary, Mrs. Lu Dalton. On
Tuesday 25, a Woman Suffrage meeting was
held at Nephi. Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. Z.
D. H. Young addressed the audience briefly.
Reports of conferences will be published as usual


WESTMINSTER ABBEY.

			BY J. C. KITTREDGE.

CHOIR AND CHAPEL OF EDWARD THE CON-
				FESSOR.	
	With reverent feet one ascends the steps
leading to the ancient choir, which contains
very much that is interesting; although the
objects are covered with the dust of ages.
Hence one looks upon the chantry of Henry
V, which is rather isolated. The effigy of the
king (which is of wood), is badly disfigured,
the head being entirely gone. Above are the
identical saddle, helmet, and shield used at the
battles of Crecy, Poitiers, and Agincourt. The
Westminster boys as they have sat at service on
Sundays, have looked up at the shield and
helmet of the departed warrior. We hope the
view inspired heroism and nobleness. The
helmet twice saved the life of Henry at Agin-
court. The richly sculptured arch was greatly
admired by Fiaxman. Upon it is represented
the coronation of Henry V, as it took place in
this very church, by Arundel, Archbishop of
Canterbury, and Henry Beaufort, uncle of the
king. Over the canopies are badges of ante-
lopes and swans, from his mother, co-heiress of
the Bohuns. The same animals are likewise
represented on the cornice, chained to a tree,
on which is a flaming cresset. This latter was
Henry’s badge, and signified that he would en-
deavor to lead his people in honor and virtue;
also the changes in conduct from prince to
king. The chantry is a distinguished piece of
work. This figure, H (in the ornamentation),de-
notes two founders, and two kingdoms which
he had united, France and England. The
sculpture describes the coat and other accom-
paniments, with peculiarities of the man, and
the following selection:	
	“Vaulted with love unto us.”
	“As if an angel dropped down from the


[Column One]
clouds, to witch the world with noble horse-
manship.”
	Of the statue, which was in English oak, but
a fragment now remains. It was bound in
silver gilt, with head of solid silver.  Two
golden teeth were plundered in the reign of
Edward IV, and all the silver was taken at the
time of the dissolution. By some estimates
Henry V was the best English sovereign to his
time. He certainly achieved great things in
his short career of thirty-four years. He gave
the praise chiefly to God. The lines on his
tomb are indicative of the esteem in which he
was held by the people. Here are some of them:
	“All England mourned.”
	“Hung be the heavens in black; yield day
to night.”
	“King Henry V, too famous to live long.”
	“England ne’er lost a king of so much
worth.”
	He was the principal instrument in bringing
about the annexation of France to England.
He died in the former country. His body was
brought over with great pomp, processions
greeting it on the way. Shakspeare (by far
the greatest of English historians) has made
the life of the king very clear to us. As we
looked on we recalled the words—“Men whose
limbs were made in England.”

TOMBS OF EDWARD III AND QUEEN PHILLIPA.

	These are fine tombs, brass effigies on top,
which are said to be very correct likenesses.
The queen bore her husband many children, a
number of whom died before their parents;
among them the promising Black Prince.
When near her end, the good queen called her
husband, who tenderly loved her, to her bed-
side and implored him to continue the same
truly regal life, after her death, which he had
hitherto led. She also requested that he might
be buried beside her. As an evidence of the
unfaithfulness of man it is reported that at a
tournament in Smithfield the royal widower
paraded with a mistress, forgetting the injunc-
tions of his dying wife. Under the Edwards
England was great; unity having been brought
about by conquest. Beyond is the simple altar
tomb of Edward I (Longshanks). At one
time there was some doubt as to whether his
remains were really desposited there; but not
long since, all conjecture was removed by an
examination which was made; when, to the
great amazement of those who looked,the body,
which had been embalmed, was found in a
state of excellent preservation; measuring more
than six feet in length showing that Edward
well merited the appellation, “Longshanks.”
On the tomb are brass effigies, representing
Edward I and Queen Eleanor, which are said
to be correct likenesses. She was a most ex-
cellent princess; and at her death Edward
mourned her loss. To show his devotion he
erected nine crosses to her memory at the towns
where the body rested during the journey to
London. Charing Cross was one of them.
That great king subjugated Scotland and
Wales. Edward possessed vehement energy
and a strong, conquering spirit. He wished
his body to be carried before the army until
Scotland should be completely subdued.
	The tombs of Richard II and his queen are
also in this enclosure.

SHRINE OF EDWARD THE CONFESSOR.
	
	In this section is the oldest memorial in the
abbey—that of its founder, Edward the Con-
fessor. It is an ancient-looking tomb; and
hither Roman Catholic pilgrims come to this
day. Old armorial bearings are seen upon the
sides of the tomb. This chapel was the holy of
holies of Edward the Confessor. The pave-
ment glows with peacock hues. The coffin is
of stone, iron bound, with a shrine of marble
and mosaics. The tomb was injured at the
dissolution, but was restored by Mary I. It

[Column Two]
was again defaced by the falling of scaffolding,
at the coronation of James II; it was robbed
also at that time. From an elevated position
one can look into the urn. To the left of the
tomb of the confessor is that of Edith, his
queen, the daughter of Earl Godwin, sister of
Harold. In this place the Stone of Scone and
the Scottish regalia were offered. At one time,
behind the shrine were the relics of Saint
Edward, as the confessor came to be called.
There was also a tooth of Saint Athanasius, a
stone with a foot-print of the Savior and a phial
of precious blood. On the screen a fantastic
legend is told of the confessor. The designs
are as follows:
	First—Bishops are showing fealty to the
child.
	Second—Represents the birth of Islip.
	Third—The coronation of the confessor,
1043. 
	Fourth—He sees the devil dancing on Han-
gelt, and abolishes it.
	Here we have a bit of practical history. The
Dangelt or Danish tax had become oppressive,
and Edward did a good thing for his people in
abolishing it. One sometimes sees much mean-
ing in those old, fantastic works of art; they
make history more intelligible to us moderns.
To return to the description.
	Fifth—Describes a scullion warned who has
been stealing from the treasure chest. This
was perhaps a satire on some high official.
	Sixth—he sees the Savior in a vision on an
altar where he is about to receive the sacra-
ment.
	Seventh—He has a vision of the king of
Denmark who is drowned on his way to
England.
	Eighth—Harold and Tostig quarrel at the
king’s table, prophetic of future disagree-
ments.
	Ninth—The confessor in the midst of his
courtiers has a vision of the seven sleepers of
Ephesus, who turn from right to left.
	Tenth—The confessor meets Saint John and
gives him a ring.
	Eleventh—The blind restored to sight by
water in which the confessor had washed. That
superstition may have been the parent of the
one which attributed to the king the virtue of
curing the king’s evil or scrofula, by touching
the patient, which was believed in as late as
the time of Queen Anne.
	Twelfth—Saint John sends two pilgrims to
the confessor to take back the ring, and to say
that within six months he would meet him in
paradise.
	Thirteenth—Pilgrims deliver message and
ring to the king.
	Fourteenth—Edward, warned of his death,
completes the dedication of the abbey.
	With certain suggestive truths in those de-
signs are given a few superstitions, which re-
mind us of the idolatry displayed for Becket
at Canterbury. The observer can learn from
them what the decline in superstition has been.
Let us imagine an English monarch to-day be-
lieving such things? It is true that the world
moves in some directions.
	The shrine of Edward the Confessor forms
an appropriate center of this most ancient
center of the edifice. Not far from the shrine
of Edward the Confessor is the fine tomb of
Henry III. An inscription tells of his long
reign of fifty-six years. The statue is of gilded
brass, representing the king wearing a long
mantle. His son, Edward I, brought from
abroad fitting stones for it.
			[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	In memory of Sister Elizabeth Stocking, who died April
9th, 1889, at South Jordan.
	Deceased was the daughter of the well known Henry
Arnold of Salt Lake City, who emigrated from England


when she was about two years old, her mother having died
previous, born June 19th 1847.	
	We the Sisters of the Y. L. M. I. A. unanimously adopt
the following resolutions to the memory of Sister Elizabeth
Stocking.	
	Whereas it has pleased bur Heavenly Father to call
from our midst by the hand of death our beloved Sister
and co-worker, therefore be it,
	Resolved that we recognize in the death of our Sister the
loss of a true friend and former counselor in the Associa-
tion. 
	Resolved that we esteem her goodness and uncomplain-
ing endurance, may we emulate her noble example as
sisters of the Association.
	Resolved that these resolutions be put on record and
that we condole with the family who are called to mourn
the loss of a kind and loving mother, eight children being
left orphans.
	Rosolved we send a copy to the family also one to the
EXPONENT for publication.
							MARIA HOLT,
							SOPHIA WARDLE,
							NAOMI V. OLIVER,
							THURZA CASE,
										Committee.


NOTICE.
Dr. Hughes’ Training School for Nurses
	Will open its Second Term October 15,1889, at
her residence on First West Street. The pro-
posed summer term will be postponed on account
of the heat. Students desiring to enter should
apply as early as possible as the usual number of
the class is now nearly complete.

A COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED
HISTORY OF THE GREAT JOHNSTOWN FLOOD
	Is now being published. Agents wanted; secure the
aency for the places of your choice at once.
			H. A. HESS, General Agent,
					123 South First East Street.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 18		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY	 15, 1889.		No. 4.


CONTENTS.
	Good Company—E. M. Stevens. Hephzibah—
A Story. Westminster Abbey—Selected. Pleas-
ant Grove. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL: Time of Changes. Editorial Notes.
On the Wing—S. M.  Kimball. A Gentile’s
Opinion—W. R. Foreign Correspondence—C.
U. Locander. Maternal Influence—W. R. Nel-
son. The Hope Within Us—S.P. Summit Co.
W. S.A.—M. Brown.
	Address to W.S. A. at Ogden. R..S. Re-
ports—Box Elder. Reorganization. Woman—
Selected. Our Baby Girl—E. C. F.
	POETRY: Memory of The Sea—E. B. W.
The First Grandchild—Selected. Shall Never
Come, Message or Token—L. M. Hewlings.
Our Mother—R. M. Fox.


MEMORY OF THE SEA. 

In the midnight hour, a memory 
	Swept like music o'er my soul 
As I stood in silent reverie, 
	Where the surging billows roll;—
Minor music, sad and sorrowing, 
	Full of trembling, full of tears;  
Ever like the ocean's murmuring, 
	Bringing back the tide of years.  
Telling of the long forgotten 
	In the cycles of the past, 
Of the nations crushed and broken 
	In the world's great holocaust, 

As I listened so entrancing 
	Was the music of the sea; 
That I fancied mermaids dancing 
	To the midnight minstrelsy.
And a thousand harpstrings quivering, 
	Sobbing in the midnight sea; 
And my broken heart-strings shivering 
	As sad memories came to me. 
Had I caught the inspiration 
	Of the music deep and strong 
That had moved my soul's wild passion 
	Was it but a syren’s song? 
O, such music, weird and mournful, 
	As the night-wind swept along, 
And the shattered notes so painful, 
	Making discord in the song.  

How far off the dreamy vision 
	That these memories brought to me, 
As I strained my ear to listen 
	To the murmuring in the sea. 
Far down where the sea weeds whisper 
	To the corals and the shells; 
But they keep the secret ever, 
	Roar or echo never tells. 
But the human heart's emotion, 
	Answers to the sad refrain, 
And the ceaseless moan of ocean, 
	Brings a grandeur fraught with pain. 

While the wild waves in commotion, 
	Sweeping out unto the shore; 
Bounding billows, restless ocean, 
	Echoing forevermore. 
And the ever constant beating 
	'Gainst the rocks that hemm'd the sea, 
Where the winds in fury meeting. 
	Dashed them backward ruthlessly. 
So our human hopes are driven, 
	Recklessly tossed to and fro, 
And our strongest ties are riven—
	Rent asunder by a blow. 
Ever heaves the restless ocean, 
	With its hidden mystery,
Sleeping' in its surging bosom,  
	Until time shall cease to he. 
							E. B. W.


GOOD COMPANY.

	It is very necessary for us to keep good
company, if we wish to bear a good name. For 
we are generally judged by the company we
keep.  The happiness of our lives depends to a
great extent upon our training in that direc-
tion.  We should seek the society of our
superiors, and set a good example before our
younger brothers and sisters, and all with whom
we may associate.  Habits of this kind once
formed will cling to a boy or girl through life,
and are of great value to them.  Example must
go hand in hand with precept.  If a person
once falls into bad company and becomes wild
and reckless, he is very apt to lose the spirit
of the Gospel and go down to destruction. On
the contrary if we seek good society, we will
grow up to be good men and women.  It is by
what we ourselves have done (and not what
others have done for us) that we shall be remem-
bered in after ages.  It requires a constant
watch, and a prayerful heart, on our part to
enable us to keep the right spirit at all times,
for the evil one is always on the alert.  If we
allow ourselves to fall into bad company we will
soon be found drifting in to their ways. There
are many reasons why we should keep good
company, parents may be called away from us
and leave our little brothers and sisters who
must be cared for, how nice it would be to have
an elder brother or sister who would set an ex-
ample that would be worthy of their imitation
and teach them to be orderly and industrious,
in this way they would soon be a great help and
grow up to be self-sustaining.  How much
better this would be than to set examples be-
fore them that would bring them down to shame
and remorse. There are other reasons why we
should keep good company, it is more economi-
cal, if we fall into bad habits we will be apt to
spend more than we make. We should avoid
the fashions and follies of the world, excessive
dress, the use of tea, coffee, tobacco and liquor
are wasteful as well as injurious to the sys-
tem; rather let us use a part of our means in
paying tithing, building temples, etc. We
should not use bad language or slang phrases,
more especially the young ladies, these are very
bad habits and are degrading to the human
mind.  Therefore they should not be indulged
in.  If we will read good books, be humble and
prayerful, we will be built up and strengthened
by so doing, and we will not be very apt to fall
into bad company.  There is an invisible pen
always writing over our heads, making an
exact register of all the transactions of our
lives, not our public conduct only, but the in-
dulgence of our private pleasures, our secret
thoughts and idle hours shall be brought into
account.  Therefore it stands us all in hand to
be noble in word thought and deed. The
Gospel has been revealed for the express pur-
pose of giving us power to control ourselves.
The Lord has told us that if we will seek unto
Him He will aid us to conquer every evil in-
clination and wrong desire.  If we will pursue
this course we will find that our path through
life will be much happier, and we will have
many more friends and will secure the favor of
the Lord.
						E. M. STEVENS.


Hope without action is a broken staff. We
should always hope for things that are possible
and probable.—James Ellis.


HEPHZIBAH.

					III
	She wandered fancy free, o’er hill and dale,
		Or lingered lovingly beside the brook;
	This little wood-nymph of the lowly vale,
		Culling wild flowers from ev’ry sheltered nook. 

	Mrs. H. was a woman of strong character-
istics, tall and dignified in figure, though gentle
and womanly in manner and bearing, her mind
decidedly practical in the full sense of the
term, she proved equal to the emergency that
had overtaken her so unexpectedly. She took
into consideration just what was necessary to
be done to economize and live within her
means, and lost no time in carrying her plans
into execution. Her close attention to the
business of her husband, for the purpose of
helping him, had given her an experience that
but few women in that that day had the opportunity
of acquiring. From the time of her husband's 
death she was so engrossed with cares and re-
sponsibilities that the younger children were
left to themselves, and Hephzibah had ample
opportunity to pursue her idle ways, or only
to visit the old home and wait on grandpa to
hat and cane, and enjoy the freedom of the
orchard, garden, meadows and woods she loved
so well. She was far enough advanced in her
studies to read everything that came in her way
and was passionately fond of books, and stories,
she really believed in fairies and elves and
wondered why she could not be visited by them.
	Her grandpa gave her the most perfect liberty
to rummage over the musty old letters and
manuscript stowed away as useless in the
garret. Tied up in bundles carefully, though
faded soiled and covered in dust, were the writ-
ings and correspondence of her grandmother
for whom she was named, and she would feast
upon these with childish delight, gleaning hero
and there, out of the way and romantic ideas
that accorded with her own peculiar notions.
The neighbors looked on in utter amazement
and wondered what would become of this pre-
cocious child, who was subject to no control,
and who had withal such seemingly exalted
notions, that it totally unfitted her for the com-
panionship of children of her own age. Mrs.
H. would sometimes say to the old Major,
“What shall we do with Hephzibah, she holds
herself so above our country ways?” “Strange
child very, not at all like other children, time
will develop her more fully, she will make her
way in the world;” but he stubbornly refused
to make the sacrifice of her company, or listen
to any plan suggested to induce her to conform
to the usual manner, or condition of little girls.
“I cannot part with her,” he would repeat
over and over.” In spite of her oddity and
her quaint notions she was more sought after
than any of all the village children. She
could repeat more verses and tell more wonder-
ful stories, and knew where all the bird’s nests
were, and when they were ready to fly, and
she never tired of talking in her own way, to
old and young, and with all her lack of con-
formity to other peoples’ ways she was a general
favorite in the village. Even her mother be-
came convinced at last that Hephzibah was of
a different temperament and organization, and
unlike the rest of the family and said to her
older daughters who were solicitious about
the child, “She cannot conform to our habits
of discipline, she must not be forced to submit;


grandpa would say "she is like her grand-
mother's family, she has the Hastings blood
in her veins, we shall see what the future will
unfold." What a puzzle the child was to them
all!
	“What can Hephzibah do with all these
fine aristocratic notions without money," said
her rich uncle to the mother on one occasion
when paying his regular visit to the homestead
he found her installed there as though she
were actually the mistress of ceremonies, posi-
tively  receiving her uncle on his arrival with
the air of a little Duchess bred and born.
He undertook to remonstrate with his father,
telling him how absurd it was to have "that
child assuming so much authority, where she
had no right;" but all to no purpose, the old
man's affection for her was almost an adoration.
So the selfish uncle appealed to the mother, he
knew her to be wise and discriminating and he
carefully inquired what course she intended to
take in regard to Hephzibah's future. "She
cannot go on long in the way she is doing now,"
he said, "for she will soon be developing into
womanhood and you have too many boys and
girls to give her any special advantages; by
and bye you will not be able to control her
at all, if indeed you are now, which appears
doubtful, and the child is far too delicate and
sensitive as well as too proud to push her own
way in the world. You are certainly doing
her a great injustice; she must go away from
here to school, where she will be properly con-
trolled. Once gone from his sight, father will
forget all about it, just like a child, and she
will familiarize herself with other scenes, and
it will change everything for the better." 
	The uncle seemed to think his sister-in-law
coincided with his views, and acquiesced in the
scheme of sending Hephzibah away, but she
did not, far from it—nor did she intend to fol-
low his advice in the least, and when he had
gone she soliloquized thus: "It would never
do to send the child away, while her grandpa
lives, it would break her heart, and the old
gentleman would refuse to be comforted and 
mourn himself to death. She must remain un-
til time brings some change about."
	Friends of the family one after another 
came to offer advice, until Mrs. H. grew weary
of their solicitations, and her replies were such
as to convince them, she knew best herself what
to do with her own, and though some of the
presistent ones felt self-condemned, yet they
tried to make amends for seeming interference,
by praising the child's ability and would say
"we are all interested in her future for we can
see she has more than ordinary talent and it
should be developed in other ways, than hid-
ing herself away in nooks and corners and talk-
to the brooks and birds and trees." 
	Mrs. H. was perfectly well aware of the
situation of affairs, and anxious to have her
little daughter receive an education in the best
schools, and she knew, better than any one
else could, as mothers almost invariably do,
that Hephzibah could not submit to be sent
away from grandpa among strangers, and at
the same time conform to the rigid discipline
of the school-room. She loved her little girl 
with all the warmth of her generous motherly
heart, and her interest in the child grew more
intense still, when she learned how others felt
concerning the child's future, and that she was
such a general favorite in the village. How-
ever she would not yield in the least, and pur-
sued the even tenor of her way, regardless
alike of their admiration of the child, or advice
concerning her welfare. And what of Hephzi-
bah? she was totally unaware of it all, and
still indulged her childish peculiarities; she
never played as other children did, or much
with them at all, though she had likes and dis-
likes, strong ones too, among her playmates as
well as older people; the boys of her own age
were rather fond of annoying and frightening her
[column 2]
when they found her alone in the fields, but
even the mischievous boys held her somehow
in a sort of adoration, and would bring her
the earliest wild-violets and longest-stemmed
water-lilies she loved so well, and thus even the
most bashful ones manifested their boyish
appreciation of her love of the beautiful in 
nature.
	Descended from the staunch old Puritan
stock, with all their severity of character, it
seemed strange that without any predilection
on the part of her parents, she should possess
such enthusiasm on subjects so foreign to the 
habits and customs, as well as the disposition
of the people with whom she associated and
among whom she dwelt. But with all her
weird fancies and rose-colored aspirations, she
had inherited from the Pilgrim fore-fathers and
fore-mothers those traits and attributes, that
must ever lie at the foundation of whatever is
lofty in motive or purpose; honesty, integrity and
a conscientiousness in all her thoughts and
feelings, that gave a moral tone and balance to
the ideal and spiritualistic and kept her within
the bounds of reason even when as she grew
in years, impulse uncontrolled would have led
her into a labyrinth of difficulties.
			[To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		﻿WESTMINSTER ABBEY.
		BY J. C. KITTREDGE.
		THE CORONATION CHAIRS.
	These are choice and ancient relics. In that
battered chair, the larger of the two, have
been crowned most of England’s sovereigns.
The famous seat was made for Edward I, by
Edward the Painter. It is made of wood, with
four lions carved at the base, and is decidedly
disfigured, giving evidence of hard usage.
Names and figures are rudely cut upon it. It
would seem that insignificant people in earlier
times had the same propensity to seek immor-
tality in that manner as at present. When
used at coronations ornamental covers are
thrown over it. The only time it was ever re-
moved from its present position was when
Cromwell was installed lord protector, in West-
minster hall, thus making the installation of
that great man as prominent and distinguished
as his career. Shakespeare refers to the chair
in Henry VI. It is where Eleanor says to her
husband Humphrey: “Methinks I sate in seat
of majesty, in the cathedral church of West-
minster, and in that chair where kings and
queens are crowned.” Queen Victoria sat in
the same chair at her coronation. The corona-
tions take place in the center of the chancel.
Beneath the chair, is the Stone of Scone, an
object of no less curiosity than the chair itself.
It is not a stone of large dimensions; and was
used in ancient times at the coronation of the
Scottish kings.  The stone has had distin-
guished and various fortunes; there are many
facts and legends connected with its history.
Legend says that the stone was Jacob’s pillow
at Bethel, and carried from thence to Egypt.
Gathelus, the Greek,  came to Egypt and
married Scotia, and it is presumed that he had
something to do with the stone. He subse-
quently fled to Spain. Many years afterward,
as Brek was fishing off Iceland, he pulled it up,
and it was then placed upon the sacred hill of
Taroh. In 330 B.C. Fergus bore the stone to
Dunstaffnage castle, near Oban. Later he
carried it to Iona. In the year 840 A. D.
Kenneth II brought the stone to Scone, near
Perth. All the Scottish kings were crowned
on it, until the time of Baloil. Edward I after
defeating Baloil in 1296, was himself crowned
on it. He had it taken to London, and placed
beneath the coronation chair, as we see it. The
[Column 2]
Scotch were naturally much offended at their
loss of the stone, and later it caused quite a
dispute between Edward III and David II.
The former consented to give up the stone, but
the people of London clamored so loudly about
it that he could return only the regalia. In a
recent book about Scone, published at Perth, is
the following:
	“There is a story told of one of the villagers,
still alive, who went to London on some busi-
ness, which being finished, he resolved on see-
ing some of the sights of the city. Among
other places visited was Westminster Abbey,
where was pointed out to him the stone of
destiny or coronation chair. After standing in
deep meditation for about a minute he accosted
an Englishman standing close by, rather
abruptly with, ‘Ye’ve nae richt tae that stane!’
	“'What do you mean, Sir?’ replied the as-
tonished Englishman.
	“ 'I mean what I say, an’ that’s ye’ve nae
richt tae that stane, because it wis stolen frae
my native toon,' thundered forth our friend.
	“‘My dear Sir, I cannot comprehend,' re-
plied the still more astonished Englishman.
	“‘Weel, Sir, if ye dinna ken, I’ll tell ye.
Ane o’ your thievish kings, Edward, took that
stane awa frae Scoon, an’ ye’ve never ha’en as
muckle honesty about ye as tae return it.’ ”
	He turned on his heel, and walked off, leav-
ing his friend to solve the problem as best he
could.
	It is interesting to trace the various migra-
tions of the famous stone, not to mention the
apocryphal part of the story of its coming from
Dunstaffnage castle, near Oban (a fine ruin
which we have seen and elsewhere described),
to the time when the Scots were defeated by
the Picts, who took it to Scone, near Perth.
There it remained until removed to West-
minster abbey by Edward III. Thus we see
the famous stone to have been an epitome of
the momentous events which moved the affairs
of history; fittingly expressing the conquest
and unity of Scotland with England. The
other chair, which is of far later date, is occu-
pied by the consorts. It was made at the time
of Mary II.
	On the platform behind the chairs, are the
shield and sword of Edward III, carried be-
fore him in France; the latter is seven feet in
length. Other monuments within the chapel,
not previously referred to, are those of Almer
de Valence, Earl Pembroke, Aveline, Countess
of Lancaster, Edmund Crouchback, Earl of
Lancaster, son of Henry III.
		SHRINE OF SAINT ERASMUS.
	This is perhaps the most picturesque section
of the abbey. It dates from the time of
Richard II.
		         [To be continued.]


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Florence Nightingale has written a letter to
the Johnstown sufferers.
	“Universal Suffrage,” said Charles Sumer,
“is the first proof and only basis of a genuine
republic.”
	The woman suffragists have scored a victory
in the Washington Convention in the election
of Judge Hoyt president, and Dr. John R.
Thompson, chaplain.
	The daughter of the Chief Justice of the
United States is to enter a law office and study
for the legal profession. She has just gradu-
ated from college.
	Mrs. Oliphant, the novelist, is sixty-three
years old and a hard worker, with no desire for
newspaper fame. She lives with her two
children near Windsor castle.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE FIRST GRANDCHILD.

"Grandmother,” called the father, and there came
Out from the vine wreathed porch a blushing dame,
Surprised and eager at the strange new name.

The clock within rang forth the chime for eight,
“A message? Read it—quick—how can you wait?"
Her husband, smiling, leaned upon the gate.

At arm’s length holding in his trembling hand
The crisp, white sheet, while he the writing scanned,
Then read once more with voice almost unmanned.

" 'Thy grand-daughter salutes thee,’ ‘Baby Bell,’
"Mother and child, thank God, are doing well.''
A moment’s silence on the proud twain fell.

She broke it soon, "Grandfather, I congrat—”
''What, me?’ the good man cried, lifting his hat,—
"‘Grandfather’—me? I hadn’t thought of that.''
						—Harper's Weekly,


[For the EXPONENT.]
“SHALL NEVER  COME MESSAGE OR
				TOKEN."

	Shall never come message or token,
		Ne'er a sound to break silence dread—
	Nor one tender word breathed or spoken,
		Assuring that love is not dead?

	Towards the far away snow-capped mountains
		And over its shadowly vale,
	Goes forth the sad cry, but the echo
		Weird, mournful, returns on the gale.

	I wait in the gloaming of eve’ing,
		Her bright banners fade into hlue.
	I question, can love that was golden
		Fade and die from heart leal and true?

	Ah! somewhere the sun must be shining,
		Somewhere, tho’ now hidden from sight,
	And tho' we see not through the darkness,
		We know that beyond there is light.

	In hope, we'll wait on thro' the gloaming,
		Tho' no voice replies as of yore;
	We know there must come a morning
		Where love reigns supreme evermore,
							L. M. HEWLINGS.


OUR MOTHER.

DEDICATED TO THE HUSBAND AND FAMILY OF MRS.
					ELIZA FOX.

Our mother has gone to her long peaceful rest, 
Angels have borne her to the home of the blest;
Loved ones will receive her where friendships are
	rife,
Our beloved one has passed from death unto life.

Then why should we mourn her? Let God's will be
	done!
The Lord has released her, the battle is won;
Oh, would we recall her earth’s pains to endure
Our mother so noble, unselfish and pure?

Recall her? O no! Her afflictions are o'er;
Our Fatber, He knows what the future’s in store;
Perhaps He has called her some trial to spare,
Mothers’s earth-work is finished, she has suffered her
	share.

God grant we may live in her footprints to tread,
That when we've completed our work ’twill be said
As we say of her, "thou hast done thy work well,
Thy glory and honor no mortal can tell.''

It seems in mind’s vision, we almost can see
Thy spirit so bouyant, so happy and free;
Thy hand in thy guide’s as he softly says “come,'' 
And opens the gates to thy beautiful home.

Our minds reach out farther, we see thee within
And Frankie, thy daughter, impatient to win
From thy lips, the news thou hast brought of her boy
The vision is closed; we leave thee with thy joy.
								R. M. Fox.


[Column 1]
PLEASANT GROVE.
	Special meeting at the meeting house May
20, 1889, President E. Brown presiding. After
singing, prayer was offered by Elder Jno. Todd.
Singing, "Now let us rejoice." President
Brown announced the presence of the visiting
sisters, viz: President Zina D. Young, also
President Mary John and Counselor Marilla
Daniels, of Utah Stake. The secretary then
read the minutes of the previous meeting.
	President John:—“There are many subjects
we could speak upon. We live in an important
time, and it requires us to be prayerful and
diligent continually, that we may escape the
great calamities that will come upon the in-
habitants of the earth. The ladies' journal,
the EXPONENT, is not supported by us as it
should be. This is a valuable paper and the
price has been reduced to $1.00 per year.
	Counselor M. Daniels:—“This is the first
opportunity I have had of meeting with the
sisters of this place. The first hymn sung es-
pecially, is full of inspiration; these old hymns
bring up happy reminiscenses of the early scenes
in this Church. Our persecutions to-day are
of a different nature to those endured by the
Saints in the rise of this Church. Let us meet
everything bravely, striving to perform our
duty with diligence, then it makes no difference
what our trials are, whether we live or die, it
will be well with us. Many of our sisters are
passing under the rod of affliction; let us help
them and extend to them the charity which is
the true love of God. Our mission is to cheer
and comfort each other, read good books and
inform our minds that we may act intelligently,
encourage the young to read the Church works
and become informed in the history of our
people.
	President Z. D. Young:—Very few faces do
I recognize—but we are all kindred spirits.
Paul says: "When I was a child I spake as a
child, I understood as a child, I thought as a
child; but when I became a man, I put away
childish things." We must become perfect
even as our Father in heaven is perfect.
Brother Joseph said: "The fulness of the
gospel includes the organization of the sisters."
You should meet together as often as twice a
month, as we are too apt to grow cold if we
only have monthly meetings. Sisters when 
you are necessitated to leave an office ask to be
honorably released. I do not like the word
"resign;" this is a retrograde word.
	The spirits of all those persons who held the
priesthood in any dispensation, are prepared
for the mission in the spirit world, then how
necessary is the proper care of our bodies, that
the progress of the spirit may not be retarded
by being placed in a weakly tabernacle. Our
mode of dress has much to do with our health,
we want to learn how to breathe, did you ever
think of that? Notice the difference in breath-
ing when we undress to retire; tight lacing is
very injurious.
	Sister Zina said many of our brethren say
that the trial of imprisonment is not so great
as what their families endure in their absence.
The finest flour is ground the hardest. If we
can acknowledge the hand of God in all
things, then He is our support. Let us exer-
cise faith to endure persecution. The Lord
will cause the wrath of man to praise Him.
The scene at Sister Taylor's grave in the ab-
sence of her husband was a sad one, though I
do not like to live in the past only as it reflects
sunshine upon the future. Sisters do encourage
the young girls to attend their meetings; 
do not puff the children up in pride, but rather
write proper thoughts upon the tablets of their
souls. Girls, do not be in too big a hurry to
leave the primary. The young ladies' associ-
ations are very important as its members are
the key to our coming nation. A certain chief

[Column 2]
caused the young men of his tribe to be highly 
educated, but the next generation had no
semblance of the education of their fathers.
The chief said he had made a grand mistake,
the mother should be educated as well, as they
are the ones who teach the children.
	President Young said many years ago
"there is silk in these elements." If we had
obeyed his counsel in regard to it we could 
have produced half a million in silk. By in-
dustry the children should learn to know the
value of a dollar. Sisters, study human na-
ture and gain the affections of your sons and
daughters, let young people be young, assist in
making amusement for them—half of our
troubles in controlling our children are caused
through ignorance. When I meet so many of
our aged sisters who have lived pure lives my
heart swells with gratitude, and thouh I
never was a Methodist, I feel like shouting
hosannah to God. I am proud of the Saints. 
	Senator Wise, in visiting the large taber-
nacle and viewing the grand organ, lifted his
hat and said, "Surely this is not the work of a
degraded people." While visiting in Provo
with an Eastern lady we called at the B. Y.
Academy, and she was surprised to see such 
advantages here in education and remarked 
upon the fine appearance of the young men.
Strangers feel the presence of the purity and
virtue shed forth among this people, now if we
live up to the Gospel truths it will bring us to
perfection. Teach our children if they are
sick to exercise faith to be healed, nurse with
mild herbs, and that not by the hand of an
enemy. If we hold our minds in proper con-
dition the truths we hear will be brought to our 
remembrance. Sisters, do not get discouraged,
President Young has said that to the real saint
there would be no greater trials than we have
already had. Let us cease speaking evil of
one another, and from all lightmindedness,
loud laughter, etc. We find the most beautiful
rules on etiquette laid down in the Doctrine
and Covenants.
	Bishop Brown said he had been highly
entertained in listening to the wise instructions
of the sisters, they, like the Elders, feel a
weakness in addressing the Saints. This is
right and proper, we should lean upon the
Lord for His Spirit to guide us. God says the
mission of woman is to bear the souls of men.
What a grand mission to bear! Teaching and
implanting in their minds the seeds of eternal
life, the influence of the mother stays with the
child through life; if these impressions are
wrong, that is likely to be the character of the
man or woman. In my mission, too, I found
the most devout Elders with unbelieving wives
unable to bring their children into the Church,
while if the mother is the believer and the
father not, the opposite is the restlt: The most
important duty of this organization is to look
after the poor and afflicted, also to elevate and
prepare the rising generation to bear off the
kingdom. The honest and upright of the
world will come to Zion to behold her beauty
and intelligence.
	President E. Brown made closing remarks:
Let us endeavor to live by the light we receive
from time to time.
	Singing—The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning. Benediction by Bishop Brown,


Socrates called beauty a short-lived tyranny;
Plato, a privilege of nature; Theophrastus, a
silent cheat; Theocritus, a delightful prejudice;
Carneades, a solitary kingdom; Domitian said
that nothing was more grateful; Aristotle af-
firmed that beauty was better than all. the let-
ters of recommendation in the world; Homer,
that ‘twas a glorious gift of nature; and Ovid,
alluding to him, calls it a favor bestowed, by
the gods.—From the Italian.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE D. WELLS,	-	Editor,
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms: 
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
	Entered at the Post  Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JULY 15,	1889.


TIME OF CHANGES.

	The condition of this people at the present time
causes every thinking person to reflect, and in-
quire why it is that such a serious change in
affairs has come to pass. Some will say it is the
effect of pride, of riches, of too great prosparity,
and a lack of keeping the commandments that have
been given; there are various opinions; one fact
is however well-known to all, that is that the
Scriptures and revelations and prophecies plainly
point to just such a condition of things as exist at
the present time. And for that very reason the
Saints should be on their guard, on the watch-
tower, so to speak, and prepared for the inevi-
table—at least the wise virgins—should not be
taken unawares but have their lamps trimmed and
burning, and not have to borrow light of a neigh-
bor who may perchance have none to lend.
	It is a day of solemnity and of prayer, for
while watching one should also pray and cultivate
and exercise faith—faith in God, and in His or-
dinances and in the priesthood He has given unto
His people; the Apostle Paul said ‘faith without
works is dead’—but the Latter-day Saints want
living faith, that which will call down the bless-
ings of heaven upon their labors also. There is a
full fountain to go to, the Lord has not withdrawn
His spirit from those who seek for it. In the
midst of Gospel light and intelligence there is no
occasion to follow after the ways of the ungodly,
or trust in the power of man.
	Many practical lessons of faith and repentance
have been taught this people in their journeyings,
wanderings, and times of severe trial, and they
assuredly know that there is an outstretched arm
ever ready to protect and defend them if they put
their trust in Him, and not in the arm of flesh.
This day we are now living in,is spoken of as the
trying time, the testing of the integrity of the
Saints, but is it not also a good time, and the very
day	
		"That Kings and Prophets waited for,
		And sought, but never found."

	The time that the Latter-day Saints have been
praying for—though perhaps few realized how
real it would be. The time when the tares would
be gathered into bundles to be burned, and only a
remnant escape the terrible ordeals. Surely it is
not a time to neglect any known duty, but seek
diligently the ways of the Lord and walk therein,
and He will bring His chosen people off victorious,
no matter who prophecies to the contrary, or seeks
to overthrow the Church of God, and waste and
destroy the substance of the saints.
	Congress may make laws to take away the
rights of men and women, and Judges and their
aids may have power to affict and distress the


people, by enforcing unrighteous measures, but
still there will be a way of escape, notwithstand-
ing all the cunning and craftiness of men. How
was it in the days of Herod the king? He sent
forth his decree, but the Lord knew more than
Herod and provided a way, and gave a timely
warning. He is the same God still, His plans
and designs will not be thwarted by Kings or Gov-
ernors or rulers, He holds them all in His, hand
therefore there is no need of fear for the work;
but each individual must look to himself and see
that He is right; and humility, obedience, faith
patience, long-suffering and charity are among the
virtues and excellences the Saints should culti-
vate.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The many friends of Sister Jane S. Richards,
first counselor to Sister Zina D.H. Young, will
be pleased to hear that she has recovered from a
lingering illness of several weeks duration, and
though not quite so strong as before, she is able
to resume her duties in the position which she
has been called to fill.

	THE fourth of July was with the firing of cannons
from the evening before until the morning, and
also otherwise, celebrated in Salt Lake City with
considerable ceremony, and a great deal of patri-
otic enthusiasm at Liberty Park, where the people
assembled after the street parade which was on
quite a magnificent scale. Flags and banners,
bands of music and a grand display of beauty, the
goddess of liberty and so on, and after the
speeches, songs, toasts and the conclusion of the
exercises in the park, there was a feast prepared
the principal feature of which was the barbacue.
So the day passed off pleasantly and in the evening
the illumination from fire-works in various parts
of the city increased and hightened the day’s en-
joyment, especially so for the children,who always
look forward to, and expect a jollification ahd a
hurrah on Independence day.

	The Annual meeting of the Y. L. M. I, A.of
the Eighth Ward, in this city, was held on Tues-
day evening, July 9th, in the ward meeting house.
The hall was handsomely fitted up for the occa-
sion, and decorated with flowers in such rich
profusion as to add grace and beauty to the enter-
tainment. But more beautiful still, were the
sparkling eyes and intelligent faces of the young
ladies who had prepared this "feast of reason
and flow of soul,” for their invited guests. The
room was well filled, and the exercises were of a
sufficiently varied character to render them at-
tractive; instrumental music, and singing added
to the enjoyment of the evening. There was a
duett by the Misses Sarah and Rebecca Mc-
Murrin, and a song by Miss Nellie Sheets. The
reading of a poem, by Mrs. M. P. Young was
one of the features of the evening, out of the
ordinary routine of such meetings, which some-
times have too much of a sameness. Mrs. Young,
the President, seemed to have the tact to preside
unassumingly. After the exercises were con-
cluded, short speeches were made by sisters Zina
D. H. Young, M. A., and Lillie Freeze, and
Elders John Nicholson, James Eardley, Jr., and
Bishop Sheets. After the adjournment, refresh-
ments, etc. were served to all. The young
ladies acquitted themselves creditably in all their
parts. Success to such live associations, may
they continue to grow in wisdom and understand-
ing, and attain the most desirable excellence.

	DURING the last year a Kindergarten school
was started in the 18th, Ward just inside the
Eagle Gate in the building known as Brigham
Young’s school house. Mrs. M. E. Randall a
teacher of many years standing in the community,
and Miss Lizzie Taylor were the teachers. Miss
[Column 2]
Taylor prepared herself for Kindergarten work by
taking a regular course of training under Mrs.
Marcus E. Jones a professional teacher. Miss
Taylor also taught one term with Mrs. Jones in
order to become thoroughly proficient. The
school commenced Oct., 22nd, 1888, and closed
in June of the present year. This year Miss
Taylor will undertake the entire responsibility
herself, and will open at the same place on the
19th, of August next, Miss Taylor has every
facility for teaching necessary, piano, tables,balls,
and other things required in the work, and she
should have the patronage which would help her
forward to success in the undertaking. We have
no hesitancy in saying that there is no mode of
teaching children so thorough and effective as the
Kindergarten. Miss Taylor has persevered under
difficulties during the past year, but we do hope
she will have the genuine courage to continue in
the conscientious work she has commenced, until
she will meet with the success and patronage so
well deserved. The Latter-day Saints need this
system of schools and Miss Taylor ought to have
encouragement. She is bright and intelligent and
we believe well calculated to take charge of a
school of this kind. We examined quite carefully
the work of little Christine McAllister who had
been attending the Kindergarten kept by Mrs.
Randall and Miss Taylor and we found the child,
though very young, quite familiar with form and
color.


ON THE WING.

				New York City July 4th, 1889.
DEAR MRS. WELLS:			
	Lest you frown when we meet, I will try to re-
port myself. At Phelps I ordered the Papers
giving general account of the Centennial Celebra-
tion sent to you. Meeting  kindred, the majority
of whom are stragers, reresentatives of different
branches of the family tree, which took root in
New York soil a hundred years ago was a deeply
interesting occasion.
	Visiting Ancestral Cemeteries and the Hill
Cumorah, was the next chapter, thence to Newark
and Sodus, for a few days. And thence to this
the Chief City of the Nation. We have devoted
a week to the study of some of its more prominent
features, we will leave many interesting features
unexplored. Have visited; in short St. Patrick’s
Massive Marble Cathedral, Metropolitan Museum,
Obelisk, Cleopatra’s Needle, Madison Square
and chatted with the eccentric Geo. F. Train
Trinity Church, St. Paul’s Church where Bishop
Potter is said to have rebuked the President. On
Sunday we went over to the Brooklyn Tabernacle
and listened to the far famed Rev. Talmage. He
impressed me as a thorough student of human
nature throwing his line for the prize of popu-
larity. Visited the elegant Marble Equitable
Building Custom House and many notable build-
ings. On Broadway called at the Phrenological
Journal office had a pleasant interview with Mr.
Sizer who has long been a strong pillar in sustain-
ing that institution, Mrs. Wells was not at the
office but I left your message for her.
	Went to the Battery, and Castle Garden which
was a long time landing quarters for the Saints.
Called at the Publishing House of Mrs. Jenness
Miller and investigated her dress reform system,
thence to the Tomb of Gen. Grant, which is kept
freshly decorated with flowers and strongly
guarded at government expense.
	I write while Lizzie packs the trunks, we leave
this eve, by Central N. Y. via. Niagara for Detroit
(where we visit friends) with our faces and
thoughts turned homeward. We were pleased to
meet Brother and Sister Wilcox here, Brother
Wilcox seems to be successfully prosecuting his
medical studies. Yesterday we went to the Saints
head-quarters on Long Island, spent a pleastant


hour with Sister Soper Pres. Relief Society there,
and Brother Woolley a wide-awake missionary
from Salt Lake. A heavy rain is falling and the
effects of rain have been on all our borders. With
regards to loved ones at home.
	Your wandering friend,
							S. M. KIMBALL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A GENTILE’S OPINION.
	
Mrs. Wells.
	Dear  Madam.—As we have now settled down
here for some little time, before commencing our
passage across the Pacific, I avail myself of your
permission to pen a few lines. And first I would
say of yonr people, that I think they will bear
very favorable comparison with any community
we have seen in America, in health, and in happi-
ness, whereas their industry is proverbial. They
have all the appearance of British health, with
the mentality of the Americans, and that is a
combination of character which ensures the
greatest amount of ability to work, both mentally
and physically; your buildings, public and private
show an amount of individuality of taste, I have
seldom seen anywhere, and never in such pro-
portions. Your streets and footpaths are rather
weak points in your surroundings, being too
dusty and uneven, but as one of your people in-
formed me, you do not like to waste money in
paving the streets, until the sewers are laid to
drain the City. This does not alter the fact that
the streets are disagreeable to walk across, and
your footpaths might be improved, and prevent
injustice to your abilities, if judged by them. 
	In respect to your immediate mission, “The
“Rights of Women,” I wish you every success,
especially if you also advocate the right perfor-
mance of duties, for unless knowledge of woman's
duties are accompanied by specific performance,
her rights will be useless in her progressive im-
provement.  A lady writer in the July number of
"The Century" touches upon this topic in a slant-
ing kind of way, under the title of "One Reason
of the Inefficiency of Woman's Work" but it
wants to be presented to the average mind, in a
much clearer and more forcible manner than she
has done it there. Both my reason and my incli-
nation favor the placing of women on the same
equality as men, but I can see it will be neces-
sary for them to exercise their reasoning power,
more than has hitherto been the case, and to keep
the emotional faculties more subservient to the
intellectual if they intend to keep side by side in
the contest for employment in the future.
	With kindest regards, believe me,
				yours faithfully,
								W. R.
	Please remember me kindly to Mrs. Zina
Young.


FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
TO LEVI W. RICHARDS ESQ., 20th, WARD, S. L.
			CITY, U.T.
Kind Sir: 
	Without wishing to worry you, it is with
pleasure that I avail myself of the time I have
now to give an outline of the late trip I have had
an opportunity to make. I am very well physically,
and though I have not any considerable confi-
dence in a harvest shortly to be reaped among the
Armenians—with whom we all labor—to the ex-
clusion of Brother J. M. Sjodahl an intelligent
gentleman in Palestine at present—yet I am feel-
ing well and put in every moment of my time to
qualify myself for whatsoever may in any ap-
parent probability devolve upon me.
	After visiting numerous relatives in four days
which seemed short indeed—in N. Y., we left that

[Column 2]
place and had (ten of us) as fine a trip as I have
ever had at sea though I have made eight or nine
ocean passages in the finest seasons. In France
I spent some time among acquaintances and rela-
tives (father and junior sister). Italy I hurried
over, having lived there over a year. In Greece I
spent nine or ten days. It is a progressive little
state, the Greeks have a wonderful fondness for
Americans, and a strong desire to imitate the in-
stitutions of the U. S. The population of the
whole Hellenic Kingdom (Greece) amounts to less
than that of N. Y. city alone; viz. two millions.
	In Cairo I spent a few days agreeably. Egypt
is a wonderfully prolific country—at times while
there I ceased to wonder that Israel should have
longed for Leeks and Onions of Egypt. They are
sweet, juicy and tender, especially so are all vege-
tables there raised in early spring before the rays
of the sun are very perpendicular and (strong).
	Traveling on the Mediterranean on deck
(economy) I caught colds several trips, but that
all wore off in the thirty-five days I stopped at Mt
Carmel, Palestine, in the German “Temple
Colony.” The latter hold to a theory like this
“Spiritual Israel,” should be “temporally gathered
to the Holy land, to build up "Temples to God”
which means, say they—cultivate spiritually
bodies in which the Holy Ghost might reside!
They are neat and nice folks, but greater dis-
semblers and hypocrites than they may be aware
of. There are three resident saints there now,
(Germans) who treated me well and raised $26.
for my trip to Aintab.
	Living is cheap in Turkey (inland) 15 cents a
day for palatable, if not fine food; and rent, a
fine, large, house two meeting rooms and back
room, kitchen, large, finely paved yard, garden,
water fountain etc., $30 a year. We have rented
for one year—that is, our President has.  I did
not have any opportunity of visiting Jerusalem.
However, from amplest testimony I can say that
it is a wonderful Religion-mongering den, and a
trap for the credulous. So Bethlehem—there they
sell a soft calcareous rock to miraculously cure
mammillary ailments.
	Mary sat on the earth suckling Jesus—a drop
fell to the ground and the whole soil in her im-
mediate neighborhood was converted into milk
(dry) and is now sold for the purpose stated—May
the patient (woman) have faith, or no faith, she re-
mains uncured of course!
	Palestine is the Rendez-vous of many scamps
and a few Pilgrims from every country almost.
	Brother Richards, you will understand that this
letter is not written on a table, but I am sitting on
a floor, with my legs crossed, and writing this on
my lap, like a Chinaman might do, the pen is also
a Turkish arrangement. We have well attended
meetings, hundreds come sometimes, they listen
and seem delighted, saying how strange and
beautiful your doctrine is; but why do you not go
to the heathen? We have the gospel you know---
even if it is not all true, yet our object is good,
and we will be saved, etc., etc. Except one or
two persons they neither oppose us nor join with
us—no hatred, no love. A strange people.
	The Turks are a sober, steadfast but apathetic
race. There is a Tartar (Chinese) element in
their blood. The Tartars conquered the country,
and though they do not wear a uniform cue yet
many shave the whole head, leaving only a scalp,
and to supply uniformity they wear Fez’ some
light colored, some dark, designed originally to
correspond to the color of the skin, thus repre-
senting—by proxy—the skin of the head sup-
posed to be shaved; and to represent the cue, a
fine silk tassel hangs on each Fez or skull cap---
such we missionaries wear too, to conform
somewhat to local custom.
	I recieve an occasional paper from Utah; and
am pleased to see matters brighter. In a late
“Star” I see a contribution from “Lula” very nice

[Column 3]
—She, yourself and friends have my most sincere
regards.
	Regards to Brothers Wm. Salmon, W. H.
Tovey, G. M. Ottinger, T. B. Lewis, Father
White, and those ladies and others who were so
kind to me, I hardly realized I had friends until
in the hour of need.
	Sincerely and very respectfully yours etc.,
					CHAS. U. LOCANDER.
Aintab, Alepps Distr., Turkey, May 25, 1889.


MATERNAL INFLUENCE.

THE EDITRESS OF EXPONENT:
	From the perusal of the two last numbers of
your paper I perceive one of your main objects is
to secure to women in general, and the Mormon
women in particular, those Rights which belong
to them, equally with men, politically and socially.
	Allow me to aid you in this matter, by drawing
attention to one of the most important rights con-
ferred on women by Nature, which cannot be
wrested away from them, but which has not been
sufficiently recognized, or acted upon by the sex
hitherto, although there are the possibilities within
its influence to obtain all, and more than all that
you can desire.
	Nearly every one has heard the old saying
“That every clever man that lives, must have had
a clever mother, or, the inference to be drawn is,
that he would not have won distinction by his in-
tellectual powers.
	This is a blind sort of way in recognizing a
truth which has had a mighty influence in the past,
and which will have a much stronger power in the
future, when the Maternal Influence of each
mother on the destinies of her child’s life, is fully
understood and acted upon.
	It is a well known fact in Physiology, and one
that has been acted upon by stockbreeders for
generations, "That the father gives the body, and
the mother gives the mind,” yet human beings
ignore that knowledge in the propagation of their
oun race, which they find acts so advantageously
in the animal kingdom generally.  Many men
have perceived this power which lies inherent in
women, ready for immense possibilities when
knowledge sets it moving, and which acts
naturally now, though not intelligently with every
female.  It requires a Lady Teacher like yourself
to present the subject to your readers in such
language, and in such a manner, as only ladies
can use, for these subjects have been so long
under the ban of prejudice that it would be con-
sidered highly indelicate for women to hear them
promulgated by any one of the opposite sex.
	But it may be stated in general terms without
being offensive that every child is indebted to its
father for its body, and constitution, or vitality and
those faculties which lie at the basilian, or lower
part of the brain, while the mother contributes the
upper part of the brain, embracing the moral, re-
ligious, and intellectual part of the children’s
future, and this principally during the last half of
gestation.
	When this fact is thoroughly understood and
acted upon, you can well understand how children
can be so moulded before birth, that there need be
no contest for Rights, either female or male, for
every mother can bequeath such conscientious-
ness to her child, that every right would be con-
ferred or granted without solicitation simply be-
cause wrong would be impossible to its nature.
	As the mother’s mind is during pregnancy,
whether operated upon by pleasant thoughts and
surroundings or the reverse, so will the child be,
if fear predominates the child will inherit it, if
ambition, pride, or egotism, it will be transmitted
to the child, the same as regards honesty in word
and deed, generosity, imagination, hope, or any
other of the faculties in the coronal region and
reflectives.
						W. R. NELSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE HOPE WITHIN US.

	Young ladies, do we all realize our position as
members of the Church and Kingdom of God?
Are we fully alive to the necessity of preparing
ourselves for future usefulness? In the revela
tions of the Lord to us, given in these last days,
He tells us to “let the solemnities of eternity rest
on our minds.” Though the things of time are
small compared with those of eternity, is there not
enough in the prophecies and promises concern-
ing the things of time to fill our minds with a de-
termination, to let the perishable things of this
world be only a secondary consideration.
	The one main thing which we, as young men
and women in Israel, lack, is a proper apprecia-
tion of the duties which devolve upon us.
	If we knew that it was at the risk of our lives to
get drunk or swear, would we do so? If we were
in the presence of a great earthly king whom we
knew would take our lives if we committed such
offences,would we, to gratify a false taste or whim,
throw away our lives? No, indeed; but accord-
ing to that word which we all as Saints, believe
in, many of us break the laws of that King who is
able to take not only our lives, and end our earthly
existence, but has all power over our souls and
controls our destinies through all eternity.
									S. P.
	Manuscript Paper, Nephi.


SUMMIT CO., W. S. A.

	A meeting was held at the Tabernacle, Coal-
ville, Thursday, May 30, to organize the Summit
Co., branch of the U. W. S. A. Mrs. Cluff was
called to the chair, and Miss Brown was made
Secretary protem. The meeting was addressed
by Mrs. S. M. Kimball of Salt Lake City, who
spoke ably, and earnestly of the advantages to be
derived from such an organization. She referred
to the intellectual stimulus such a society would
be to its members; preparations for its meetings
would involve study and mental improvement.
	Hon. W. W. Cluff, also addressed the meeting
advocating the organization of such a society. 
	The Summit County W. S. A.. was then
organized with forty members, five more have
since been added. The following officers were
chosen.
	President, Mrs. Boyden. First Vice-President
Mrs. Rheade. Second Vice-President, Miss
Brown. Third Vice-President, Mrs. Hudson.
Executive committee: Miss Ball, Mrs. Han-
nah Eldredge, Miss Nora Evans, Miss May
Cluff, Miss Lena Allison. Secretary, Miss
Maggie Salmon. Corresponding Secretary, Mrs.
Edith Cluff. Treasurer, Mrs. Lavinia Beard.
	Considerable enthusiasm  was manifesred. Mrs.
Kimball, on taking leave of the President, re-
marked that she felt gratified and encouraged at
the result of the meeting.
				M. BROWN, Secretary, protem.


ADDRESS TO W. S. A. AT OGDEN.

Mrs. President Ladies and Gentlemen:
	I congratulate the women of Ogden on
having organized an Association for political
study and advancement in the science of
government.  I realize fairly perhaps how
much prejudice and opposition there will be
to encounter, and difficulties to surmount and
overcome in the pursuit of a purpose which to
many seems unwomanly and out of place.
But women are in reality amenable to the laws
of the country in which they dwell, and if
property owners, as many are, they are taxed
to help maintain the laws, while perhaps
totally ignorant on all these subjects, having
no representation and getting no practical ex-

[Column 2]
perience, except to pay taxes; such women are
scarcely prepared for a sudden change of which
perchance they had never thought or dreamed,
and of which they had no fore-knowledge.
But the women of Utah and many of you
whom I see here to-day have had an experience
in the practical use of the ballot.  But in our
day many changes are being brought about,
and one of these is woman's place in the great
world of thought and action, in the home, in
the state, and in the nation for suffrage has
become a national question.  We sometimes
speak of it as woman's era—so much has been
and is being done to elevate and help woman-
kind.  The world is growing wiser every day
in regard to woman's position.  In fact there
has been a vast improvement in the last fifty
years,  in woman's status educationally, in-
dustrially and politically.
	The laws of several of the states in this great
Republic of which we Americans boast so 
much, have been essentially modified in regard
to women and children since the women them-
selves have been agitating the question of politi-
cal equality.  I do not say, nor do I expect, 
that when women vote, all the evils that 
afflict society will be remedied or removed, nor
that all oppression will cease; but I do believe
that women have a right to use their influence
towards making the laws that are to govern
them and their children, and should have the
privilege of having a voice as to who shall
execute the laws of the land, and how the taxes
shall be applied and in no other possible way
can woman exert as direct an influence for
her own and the public good as with the ballot
in her own hands; and I do most firmly believe
that woman's moral and spiritual nature will
impress itself with a recognized force upon all
questions in which she is permitted to par-
ticipate, thus helping to refine and purify the
political atmosphere which envelops the nation.
	I am aware that it is said by men that
women vote now, indirectly through their
husbands, brothers and sons, but who would
not rather wield the power herself even were
such the case, and especially when, as a literary 
lady of wealth and influence informed me in
Washington, the only vote she had at the polls
was through her colored coachman;  her
husband had been killed in the war of the 
Rebellion, and she, a lady of culture and re-
finement as well as wealth—was denied rep-
resentation though she paid heavy taxes—and
she was not even sure her servant voted on her
side of the question.  Such cases and similar
ones are very common.  Woman likes best to
act her own part and if there is a point to be
gained in political matters,  her vote is one
more and might turn the scale.
	John Quincy Adams said, in defending the
political petition of the women of Plymouth, 
that "women are not only justified, but exhibit
the most exalted virtue, when they do depart
from the domestic circle, and enter upon the
concerns of their country, of humanity and 
of their God."
	In the days when women voted in Utah, it
was very commonly remarked by us, that our
individual vote was equal to that of any man's,
no matter what his ability, or  his political
position.  And to all those who understood
and appreciated the franchise, it gave a feel-
ing of independence, that was in it-self an
elevating power.  Men will assuredly respect
women's opinions more, when they know they
can give them expression at the polls.
	American men are everywhere reputed to
be more tender and indulgent to women than
those of any other land; socially, they elevate
them to a very high plane, even giving them
the title of "queens of society," though these
same men will  not admit their wives to their
club rooms, and are shocked to hear of women
voting;  but will this social distinction out-
weigh  the ballot, and give them influence,

[Column 3]
such as equal suffrage will give?  Verily no?
Who does not know better, that has watched
the tide of human affairs carefully?  What
woman of common sense, would not rather be
the equal of her husband than to be called
pet names?  Besides, every honorable man
respects a woman more, who is his equal in
intelligence,  than one who is his inferior.
The old rule of woman's weakness and man's
power, will be done away with many of its
seducing influences, and attendant  miseries,
when women have equal rights with men.
	There are many men everywhere yet to be
converted, to this new, or comparatively new
doctrine, of woman's equality or emancipation,
and would like her to  believe still, that she is
sweeter,  and dearer, and more lovable, when 
she keeps in the old beaten track of domestic
life, and never aspires to anything beyond the
boundary of her own domicile.  But this will
scarcely answer for the mothers, whose children
are growing up, and about to take their part in
the world's great drama.  Then, there is some-
thing to be done; and more things to be thought
of than  looking sweet and demure; and what
man would not wish, at  such a time, that his
wife were really prepared to take up a goodly
share of the burden and obligations.  And
how many women are there in the world who
must even take them all; widows, and those
worse than widowed, whose husbands have,
notwithstanding all the sweetness given, all the
deference shown them,  given themselves up to
the demon, alcohol? Then,  in such a home, is
it not absolutely necessary that the wife be
strong-minded, as well as physically strong,
to carry the load of life along?  And who is
to represent her and her interests at the polls?
Her vote is needed then against the dramshop.
Such instances are not rare; they may be found
by the thousands in America, as well as in for-
eign lands,  They are too sad to dwell upon,
but they are solemn facts nevertheless.
		*	*	*	*	*
	And when women sit at ease in luxurious
homes and say they have all the rights they
want, and are disgusted with those who are not
content,  and who are interceding  for the
ballot, they simply shut their eyes and ears, to
the cries of the wronged and oppressed; they
forget, or ignore, the Savior's words, "love thy
neighbor," but to many, even of these de-
luded ones, an awakening comes, sometimes
suddenly,  and too late,  they find perchance,
they too,  are left, by death or misfortune,  to
battle with the  world.  How much better to 
have been prepared.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	If women are fortunate enough to marry a
man who supports them,  and gives them all
the rights they want, for the services they
render in  love, it  is well.  But if he fails to 
do this, would it not be  better were they pre-
pared to be self-sustaining?  Especially tf they
have equal pay for equal work, which, it seems,
they never will have, until they have the ballot
in their own hands.  That is one of the im-
portant matters to be adjusted, and working
women themselves do not seem to be aware of
this fact.  Many of them are afraid of the
question of Woman's Rights, and will say, "I
have  a perfect dread of women who are
always wanting men's places," but they  are
quite willing  to accept men's wages, neverthe-
less.
	However were men and women all agreed
in every relation in life, and the world march-
ing on with flying colors, as it were, to victory,
even then, woman's word should be as potent
as man's, and her voice in all matters of  the
home, the state, and society of equal impor-
tance. And there need be no fears of collision
because men and women both go to the polls,
any more than because they go to the theatre
or church together; for so long as men retain


[Column 1]
their magnificent physical organizations and
proportions, and as long as women possess
their sensitive, sympathetic, maternal tem-
peraments, just so long as these distinctions of
sex exist, that great primal force which
binds men and women, will continue to at-
tract them to each other. It has been said,
and truly, "If there be one thing of which
nature is careful, she is careful of her types,"
and while "that likeness in unlikeness sub-
sists which is at the base of all physical at-
traction, there is little fear of sexual rela-
tions being either reversed or annulled,"
but let woman as well as man, know how to
protect herself, and stand on an equal platform.
	Lucy Stone, one of the foremost women of
the age, once said, "Woman's nature is stamped
and sealed by the Almighty, and there is no
danger of her unsexing herself, while His eye
watches her. 
	Margaret Fuller, one of the earliest advocates
of the higher education of women in America,
said, "One hour of love will teach a woman
more of her true relations, than all your
philosophizing. These, said a great writer of
our own day, are the testimonies of women
who had studied Greek, and were only the
more womanly for their study,—illustrating
the idea that the greater includes the less.
	The Duchess de Fontanges is described as
being, "as beautiful as an angel and as silly
as a goose." Men worshipped her beauty, but
despised her in their hearts, and she certainly
could not have arisen to any greatness upon
her own merits.
	What we want most at the present time, is to
understand political questions and privileges,
and make ourselves better acquainted by
study and discussion, with the laws of the
land, and the government which taxes us, and
protects us in our rights, or professes to do so.
	It is said, if women are strong-minded, that
is if they should vote, because that is the sum
and substance of the matter, that they will
neglect the home, and will not cook the dinner
and that is said to be a necessity for man; at
least, the poet tells us so, and by-the-bye that
poet was a man; that man can do without
everything except cooks and dining—he
give it beautifully in these words.

	We may live without poetry—music and art,
	We may live without conscience, and live without heart,
	We may live without friends’ or may live without books
	But civilized man, cannot live without cooks.

	He may live without books, what is knowledge but
		grieving?
	He may live without hope, what is hope but deceiving?
	He may live without love, what is passion but pining?
	But where is the man—that can live without dining!"

	For the seventeen years that the women of
Utah voted, I never once heard it stated or
argued that the bread was poorer, or the home
neglected, or the husbands shirts without
buttons, or less economy in the household, as a
consequence. In fact, everything went on
much the same, only a little better. Primary
meetings and Conventions were more interest-
ing, and there was a fairer chance of getting
good men in office, and not nearly so much
worry over elections as there is now-a-days;
therefore, it must have been a great relief to
men, instead of a disturbing element.
	In arguing the question of woman's equality
the inference is usually drawn from the family,
and mainly the husband and wife, utterly ig-
noring the fact, that men and women were
human beings before they were husband and
wife, and that they had formed ideas, views,
and opinions, and arrived at an age when they
exerted an individual influence, known and
felt in the great world of mankind, if only
among their immediate circle; but in speaking
of equal suffrage, this fact is very seldom

[Column 2]
taken into consideration. It is invariably the
plea that it will create domestic broils, pro-
mote dissension, provoke quarrels, etc. We
all know very well that there are thousands of
women in the United States, who never have,
and very likely, never will marry, for various
reasons unknown to us, and which we have
not time to discuss; who is going to represent
the interests of all these single women? cer-
tainly not the single men, they have too many
interests of their own. In my own native
state, Mass., there are thousands of them.
They have lives to live, work to do, interests
at stake and they need the ballot as a lever
to help them in their struggles for bread-
winning or other pursuits, or for protection.
	What does Emily Pfeiffer say to the members
of Parliament in Great Britain. "Necessity
has presented itself to the women of our gen-
eration with talons and beak more formidable
than those of the eagle, who drives the young
one from the nest. They have not sought the 
shelterless strife with opposing prejudices and
interests, but have been forced into it by the
incontrovertible, law, which pushes the tribes
of men over barren continents, and out upon
stormy seas. It is hunger the mighty maker,
which is urging our women upon new paths,
and driving them upon a way which they would
not, to the fulfillment of a destiny they know
not. With this force behind them it is im-
possible, that they should turn back, impossi-
ble that those before should resist their impul-
sion. They have been crowded by their own
numbers out of the penfold in which their ac-
tivity was enclosed, and forced to seek the
equivalent of their labor in an ever widening
sphere. In making the experiment of their
fitness for untried work, they have had to face
odium and abundant ridicule from those they
hold dear. Their efforts to train themselves
for higher and more remunerative labor has
encountered the opposition of a jealously
guarded monopoly, and the claim for citizen-
ship now formulated though enforced inde-
pendence has rendered it a right—may be
met,—seeing that it lacks the element of
material force which, still enters largely into
human affairs, on many sides with indifference
and on some with scorn. But the stream of
tendency which sets in the way of woman's ad-
vance is irresistible, and the vital rational prin-
ciples incorporated in her claim could in the
end win alone in the struggle with material
resistance."
	Other remarks were made beside those em-
bodied in these notes, but the main points are 
included herein.
						July, 1st, 1889.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

BOX ELDER.
	(Synopsis of Minutes of Young Ladies Con-
ference held at Brigham City June 12th, 1889.
Pres. Minnie J. Snow, Presiding.)  Singing,
“The Spirit of God” &c.  Prayer by Bishop
O. F. Whitney, singing “How Firm a Founda-
tion” &c.  Upon the stand were Bishop O. F.
Whitney, Sisters Elmina S. Taylor and E. B.
Wells of Salt Lake City, also the leading
officers of the Y. L. M. I. A.  Sister E. B.
Wells felt to speak in praise of the Young
Ladies of Brigham City and also to encourage
them to persevere in the cultivation of the
talents bestowed upon them that they might at-
tain to the spiritual perfection which they de-
sired.  Spoke upon faith, humility and the ap-
preciation of blessings and gifts, and entreated
them to listen to counsel and profit by the ex-
perience of the older sisters.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney desired to speak those
things that would be appropriate for the occa-
sion. “If this could always be so there would

[column 2]
be fewer dull meetings.  The spirit of God is
the spirit of truth.” Explained the parable of
putting old wine into new bottles—as applying
to teaching things that are not appropriate to
the occasion.  If we have intelligent ideas and
a mind open to the spirit it will clothe them
in fitting and appropriate language.” Spoke
on the beauties of true poetry; “it contains
everything that is lovely, chaste, and true.
Mormonism is full of poetry; it is God’s mode
of teaching truth for the conversion of men. 
Christ gave teachings in poetry to make im-
pressions on the mind.  You can learn from
nature in all her beautiful forms; they are
Revelations form God. God’s universe is built
upon symbols.  The unseen is greater than that
which is visible.  The object of our mission
here is to get back to our Heavenly Father.
This earth is not the heaven of our God, it is a
foreign mission, a place of exile—We must
worship nothing here.  We will go back to our
Home.  Thus, death exists here.” Spoke of
the perishability of all things mortal. “Earthly
things are symbols of things Heavenly.  So
long as we are fettered by evil passions we will
be kept in prison. Woman as well as man is
a symbol of God; she is typical of the earth
itself.  Earth brings forth as a mortal mother.
Again woman is typical of the church of Christ;
by which our Spiritual nature is built up; as
woman sometimes brings forth children that
are wild and wayward so does the earth bring
forth thorns and briars.  The Church will
never be thrown down or given to another
people; nor will woman again be trampled upon.
Man is King woman is Queen and they will
reign side by side.”
	(Sister Lille Freeze desired our faith and
prayers that she might be able to speak in-
structively to us. “If I am sufficiently humble
I will be able to benefit you.  Each heart
knows its own trials and temptations.  Our
greatest triumphs depend upon a subjection of
our inherent evil passions.  Let us seek to pre-
form our spiritual duties and give our souls
liberty to exercise the gifts of God.  Try to un-
derstand the manifestation of God’s power and
comprehend the laws that govern them.”
	Sister Freeze being moved upon by the spirit
broke forth into tongues.  Sister Wells gave
the interpretation.  Meeting adjourned until
2 p. m. Singing, and benediction by Elder
Ephraim Jensen).
	At 2 p. m.  Singing, “O Ye Mountains
High.” Prayer by Sister Perry, of Mantua.
Singing, “Zion Stands With Hills" &c). A
correspondence between Mary Baird and
Fannie Grahel subject “Mormonism” was read
by the writers.
	Christena Keller, of Mantua, spoke on the
subject of Profanity.  Sister E. S. Taylor our
General Supt. offered her usual pleasant
greeting and expressed her pleasure in again
beholding us in conference assembled.  Her
desire was to bless and benefit, “and none can
do this without the spirit of the Father.  Many
of the young thoughtlessly plunge into the
world’s pleasures and in the end reap sorrow.
In the year 1869, President Young organized
these associations for mutual benefit. Let us
so improve that his exertions may not be in
vain.
	The evil propensities of our natures seem to
predominate, therefore it requires a constant
struggle to do good deeds and perform duty.
We must either progress or retrograde, and to
do the former humble, heartfelt prayer is
necessary.  Try and make duty a pleasure it
is so easy to do that which we have a liking
for.
	The Lord has blessed you wonderfully,
therefore you will be more accountable to Him
than are the people of the world.  Prepare
yourselves for the future responsibility that
awaits you, that of wife and mother.
	'Tis said “Man is known by the company he


keeps” as like cleaves to like. Those who have
good motives will feel uncomfortable in the
society of the wicked. Be careful in your
choice of husbands, ask the Lord to direct you
in this matter. We should keep our homes
orderly if we expect happiness and content-
ment. Study refinement at home, have a place
for everything and everything in its place.
	We have decided to establish a Magazine,
it is an accomplishment to be able to place
one’s thoughts on paper. Preserve your essays.
The best selections will be chosen from your
manuscript papers and published. We hope
each association will sustain it by their sub-
scription. May we seek to become that perfect
people who will be permitted to enter God’s
presence.
	(Sister Lillie Freeze: “I trust to be
strengthened while standing before you.)  Do
not feel discouraged if you cannot retain all
that you hear, come and listen and it will some-
time be brought to your remembrance. Be
cleanly it is conducive to health. Cook nutri-
tious food for your families.” Spoke briefly on
the “Word of Wisdom.”
	“In former days it was considered a mis-
fortune to be a woman, not so now. Cultivate
the courage “to do and dare” that which our
leaders require. We should humbly pray to
be guided in marriage, that our hand and
heart should never be entrusted to one who is
unworthy. We can have the spirit of discern-
ment if we seek for it. I believe one reason
why our people are suffering is through break-
ing the Sabbath day, it is a day of resting and
not of pleasure-seeking.”(Closed by exercising
the gift of tongues, to which no interpretation
was given.)
	Prest. Clawson: “The accomplishments of life
are useful and admirable, but housekeeping
should first be learned. I can assure you from
observation and experience that a well cooked
meal accompanied by good nature are the best
modes of securing coveted favors from your
husbands. Do not let a spirit of fault finding
creep into your families, if you do unhappiness
will exist. Do not bring disgrace and sorrow
upon your parents who have labored hard for
your support. Seek to add comfort to their
aged heads. Do not shun the responsibility of
married life.
	Pres. Charles Kelley said “those who have
addressed us have been inspired of God.”
Spoke of the crimes perpetrated at Pleasure
Resorts on the Sabbath Day. “May we be
free from these evils.
	(Pres. M. J. Snow said: “my heart is full of
gratitude to God for the manifestations of His
power and the blessings of this Conference.")
Spoke of her pleasure and interest in laboring
among the Young Ladies of this Stake.
'Owing to lack of time, some members on the
programme have necessarily been omitted.
May the kindly exhortations and wise counsel
given by our friends to-day, make deep im-
press on our hearts, and through renewed
energy and zeal in our lives appear.” (Con-
ference adjourned for three months.) Choir
and congregation sang, “I’ll Serve the Lord
While I am Young” &c. Closing pray by
Pres. C. Kelley.
			RAY EVANS, Sec. Pro. tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REORGANIZATION.
	(A meeting of the Relief Society was held in
Mona, Juab Co.,May 30th, 1889.  The Young
Ladies and Primary met with them by  invita-
tion.)
	Pres. Sperry and wife, Pres.  Paxman and
wife, of the Stake Presidency, and Stake Pres.
of the Relief Society, Mrs. Mary Pitchforth
and her Counselor A. L. Bigler, Patriarch J.
G. Bigler, and a number of other brethren and
sisters from Nephi, also Bishop John Keinke


and his Counselor Edward Hay were present.
     Sister Pitchforth presided:  After the sing-
ing and prayer, Sister Pitchforth stated the
object of the meeting.  "We have gathered to-
gether to show our respect and affection to 
Sister Eliza Somerville who has been a faithful
laborer in Mona for twenty-nine years, and has
presided over the Relief Society of Mona for
nearly twenty-one years.  She has in very deed
been a mother in Israel to old and young.
Now she is advanced in years and her health is
poor and she desires to be released from her
position.” Spoke in praise of Sister Somer-
ville's faithful labors and of her integrity, it
was motioned that we release Sister Somer-
ville from her labors and give her a vote of
thanks and our love confidence and  blessing,
and prayed God to bless her in her declining
years.  Sister Pitchforth put the motion after
it was seconded and it was carried unani-
mously.
     Sister Somerville spoke a few words, was
pleased to see so many young people, said to
 them, "always try to perform your duties.  Cul-
tivate good manners.  Nothing looks nicer in
young people than to be well-behaved.  Do
what the spirit of God suggests at all times."
     Sister Alice Bascome was nominated to be
President and Sisters Anna Lerwell and Sarah
Shepherd her Counselors. Sarah Williams
Secretary, Margie Much Treasurer.  Seconded
and carried unanimously.
     After the organization was completed, a very
good programme consisting of songs, recita-
tions, and short speeches from the visitors, was
rendered.  Sister Margie Much, in behalf of
the Teachers presented Sister Somerville with
a copy of the Book of Mormon, as a small
token of their love for her, and their apprecia-
tion of her labors.  Sister Emily Sperry spoke
in the gift of tongues and the interpretation
was given.  A class of eighteen little girls sang
very sweetly the exercise song, "What did
Jesus say."
     Next on the programme was a feast for the
“inner man” in the shape of a delicious picnic
provided by the good sisters, and blessed by
Bro. Bigler after which all partook with a 
relish and a social time of enjoyment was spent
in conversation.  Brother Much dismissed by
prayer and all returned to their homes well
satisfied with the afternoon they had spent.
							M. E. T.


WOMAN.
	The woman who does not please is a false
note in the harmony of nature. She may not 
have youth or beauty or even manner; but she
must have something in her voice or expression,
or both, which it makes you feel better dis-
posed toward your race to look at or listen to.
She knows that as well as we do; and her first
question, after you have been taking your soul 
into her consciousness, is "Did I please?"
	A woman never forgets her sex. She would 
rather talk with a man than an angel any day.
Womanly women are very kindly critics, except 
to themselves, and now and then to their own
sex. The less there is of sex about a woman the
more she is to be dreaded. But take a real 
woman at her best moment—well dressed
enough to be pleased with herself, not so re-
splendent as to be a show and a sensation, with
the varied outside influences that set vibrating
the harmonic notes of her nature stirring in
the air above her, and what is social life to
compare with one of those vital interchanges
of thought and feeling with her that make an
hour memorable?
	What can equal her tact, her delicacy, her
subtlety of expression, her quickness to feel the
changes of temperature, as the warm and cool
currents of thoughts blow by turns? At one
moment she is microscopically intellectual,


critical, scrupulous in judgment as an analyst's
balance; and the next as sympathetic as the
open rose that sweetens the wind from whatever
quarter it finds its way to her bosom.  It is in
the hospitable soul of woman that a man for-
gets he is a stranger, and so becomes natural
and truthful, at the same time that he is mes-
merized by all those divine differences which
make her a mystery and bewilderment.
OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.


OUR BABY GIRL.
		
	“There is no flock, however watched and tended,
		But one dead lamb is there; 
	There is no fireside howsoe'er defended,
		But has one vacant chair.”

	Died in Luna Secora Co. New Mexico, of Croup,
Katie Edith, daughter of William and Harriet E. Laney;
born April, 13th, 1887, and died June 11, 1889. The
little one was an only daughter, and almost worshipped
by her three little brothers. The parents are grief-stricken
at this sudden blow. The little girl was like a pure white
lily, so fair and frail, she seemed more of heaven than
earth. May Our Heavenly Father comfort the bereaved
ones in their sorrow, and may they acknowledge, even in
the midst of their suffering that "He doeth all thing
well."
								 	     E.C.F.


NOTICE. 
Dr. Hughes’ Training School for Nurses
Will open its Second Term October 15, 1889, at
her residence on First West Street. The pro-
posed summer term will be postponed on account
of the heat. Students desiring to enter should
apply as early as possible as the usual number of
the class is now nearly complete.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant's Shoes. 
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 18. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1889. No. 5.


CONTENTS.
	Hephzibah—A Story.  The Lady Doctors of
India.  Trifles—Sarah Adey.
     EDITORIAL: Royal Wedding.  Editorial Notes.
Why Offended—M. E. Kimball.  In Memoriam.
     Primary Day—Luella Stoker.  Encouragement
—Jennie East.  R. S. and Y. L. Reports—San
Juan and Juab.  Granger Meetings—M. A. G.
Westminster Abbey.  Women in Journalism—
Selected. Woman’s Mass Meeting at Sanpete—
Lucinda L. Dalton.  Notes and News.  Obituary
—Ann Rigby.
	Poetry: Three Chippies—Lu Dalton. Re
quiem—L. M. Hewlings.  Birthday Greeting—L.
L. G. Richards. Response—Wm. Willes.  Jus-
tice vs. Chivalry—Warner Snoad—English Wo-
man’s Review.


THREE CHIPPIES.

I walked in a shady, cool garden,
	One lovely blue day in June,
When all the wild birds were a-warble, 
	Each piping his favorite tune. 
The robin, sang love to his lady,
	The bobolink, “Beautiful Day;”
But I listened, smiling sedately.
	To a wee one who only could say—
“Three chippies! three chippies! three chippies!”

Now what can be meant by "Three chippies"
	In birdland's melodious tongue?
I have it! He means his three children
	Soft cradled the green leaves among.
And these must be wonderful, truly,
	He sings so triumphant a strain;
Dame Nature’s high masterpiece surely,
	Hark! over and over again—
"Three chippies! three chippies! three chippies!"

Dear birdie, I murmured, partaking
	His gushing, exuberant joy,
I wish you delight in your darlings,
	Two lovely wee girls, and a boy.
He paused not to hear the concluding,
	For compliments, cared not a pin;
And, even my glances eluding,
	Again poured his rapturous din—
"Three chippies! three chippies! three chippies!"

Offended, and thinking to pique him
	By feigning to doubt, don’t you see?
I said, no, I’ll never believe it
	Unless you will show them to me;
For often, who boasts all the loudest,
	Has least to establish his claim;
And he who walks highest and proudest—
	With a gush like a laugh he proclaimed
"Three chippies! three chippies! three chippies!"

Oh, wisest philosopher living,
	That never will argue in vain,
Nor can be entrapped into giving
	An enemy one point of gain.
For neither believing nor doubting
	Can alter one fact, high or low.
Let scoffers grow weary with flouting,
	I'll still know, whatever I know,
"Three chippies! three chippies! three chippies!"
							LU DALTON.


REQUIEM.

Oh, June! Beautiful month of roses;
	Grief bides in our hearts to-day;
And we mourn for our bud of promise,
	That has passed with thee away.


Ah! little we heed the sun's shining,
	'Mid summer's beauty and bloom,
While for our sweet bud we are pining,
	Now withered in beautiful June.

The beauty and grace of a presence,
	That made each burden seem light;
Dispensing around us sweet incense,
	Glad'ning our hearts with delight.
Has vanished from sight now forever,
	Its sparkle, lustre, and bloom—
Nevermore fresh garlands we gather.
	All round lies silence and gloom.

O, we cannot refrain from weeping,
	Tears must flow to give relief;
While we yearn for a balm of healing,
	To allay corroding grief.
Who can rend this dark cloud of sorrow,—
	Bring solace in our sore need;
Give hope of a brighter tomorrow,
	Whose hearts are healed that now bleed? 

Dear Savior, thou mighty one risen.
	Lead us thro' darkness and pain,
To see, tho' our loss, it is given
	Our loved one Eternal gain. 
To know there's a clime that is fairer
	Than beautiful June on earth,
Where flowers transplanted, bloom ever,
	Renewed in glorified birth. 

Tho' bereaved, with hearts sorely stricken,
	Groping through darkness our way;
O, give us a faith that provisions 
	The Land of Immortal Day! 
To follow---where Providence leadeth 
	Tho' passing under the rod,
Believing our child, Katie Edith,
	Lives in the gardens of God. 
					L. M. HEWLINGS.
Atchison Kan.


[column 1]
HEPHZIBAH.
IV.
	Weird fancies do possess us now and then,
		And even child-life has its histories;
	Which older grown we fain recall again.
		Remembering how sweet its mysteries.

	Alas, another change awaited Hephzibah,
following close upon her father’s death, the
aged veteran of the village, once “the young
master” at the mill, and for so many years
almost the sole occupant of the old farm house,
where our little heroine had roamed at will,
the dear old grandpa whom she loved so
fondly, passed quietly to his rest as though
falling asleep. The villagers who had known
him all their lives, could scarcely mourn for
one who had outlived his usefulness, though
they honored his memory with many encomiums
of praise, for his good deeds, his uprightness,
his sterling integrity, and for his patriotism
and military title nobly earned in his country’s
defense.
	And little Hepsie as she was now almost
invariably called by the children her play-
mates was disconsolate—and refused to be
comforted, in fact so wild and uncontrollable
was her grief that her philosophical mother
was puzzled. There was so much in the child’s
nature that seemed “from the world apart,”
that it was difficult to tell what one ought to
do under the circumstances. This the mother
knew, for she had studied Hepsie, as she would
a problem in algebra, and found her a much
more subtle thing to deal with, because she 

[column 2]
was constantly revealing new phases of char-
acter. It was more like a game of chess be-
tween mother and daughter, and Hepsie always
managed to keep her mother in a state of per-
plexity, of which the child was totally uncon-
scious.
	“I cannot live without my grandpa, she
sobbed between her screams, he cannot be
without me, let me be buried in the same
grave, he will never be happy without me.
He loved me best of all the world.” Such
random expressions and then the crying was
pitiful. In vain her mother and brothers and
sisters reasoned and explained, she wept floods
of tears, and when at last she could weep no
more, she fell asleep only to awaken is a maze,
as it were, thinking she was in the old house
and grandpa there with her as before this
terrible shock had come upon her. Mrs. H.
tried to make her understand how happy
would be the reunion of grandpa and his wife,
whose name she bore and whom he had so
tenderly loved, and cherished her memory so
faithfully. The child gave herself up to par-
oxysms of grief, piteous to those who loved
her, and her mother now more than ever fully
realized that some change must be made in
Hepsie’s life.
	Meantime the oldest son arrived, from Bos-
ton to attend the funeral and. look after the
property. He paid little attention to the
widow of his brother whom he had defrauded,
though keeping up some appearance of res-
pect to perserve the dignity of his father’s,
family perhaps; but when all was over, and
the family tomb re-opened to receive the re-
mains and sealed up again, and such ceremonies.
performed as were absolutely necessary, and
affairs settled, then he sent adrift the two old
people who had lived so many years at the farm
and were devoted to the old major, with a bare
pittance, not caring if they went to “the poor
house,” or not and they had done faithful ser-
vice and were at least entitled to their living.
His sister-in law courageously spoke in their
defense but he cruelly resented it by saying,
“the very roof that shelters” you and yours
rightfully belongs to me.” “You shall not
have it she retorted, not if there is law in the
law in the land to protect the rights of the
widow and the fatherless.” He felt he had
gone too far, but he was not proud to re-
call his words, and walked away saying he did
not care ever to set foot in the village again.
Before leaving however he barred the widows
of the old home, and put heavy locks upon
the doors and told the neighbors it would soon
be taken down.
	Hephzibah had looked upon the old house
as her own, her grandpa had often told her
she should have the homestead, and all the
beautiful old laces, linen, etc and now ’twas
shut against her, and uncle Elisha had carried
away everything valuable. The child rebeled
and called him cruel and hardhearted; and
protested against being robbed, but all to no
purpose.
	A new era now began in Hepsie’s history.
She was just commencing to merge from child-
life into the realm of girlhood. Her mother
was keenly conscious of the change, and
seriously resolved to break the spell that clung,
around her, and the associations so closely in-
tertwined with her affections, and sent her
away to school, where new scenes and sur-
roundings would break the spell and give
activity to her dormant energies. Mrs. H.


[column 1]

﻿had a friend in whom she reposed great con-
fidence, living in a town about thirty miles
away, the wife of a clergyman, who had no
daughter of her own, and whose superior edu-
cation and accomplishments would be a great
advantage to Hepsie in developing her un-
formed character, and so 'twas settled at home
with the family, and preparations were rapidly
made for the journey.  Letters were inter-
changed between Mrs. H. and Mrs.G., and
the latter was given instructions in regard to
discipilining the mind and character of the
eccentric child whose guidance she was about
to undertake.  The new dresses and other
wearing apparel awakened but little interest
in this unsophisticated child, but the thought
of leaving the dear old places, the familiar
scenes where she had spent her happy child-
hood almost overcame her and she wept bitter-
ly when she was reminded that she was going
among strangers.  However, she was just
beginning to learn that life was not all made
up of fancies, and indeed the death of her
grandfather had worked a radical change in
the tenor of her thoughts.  She was more
serious and contemplative and earth was not
quite so rosy-hued nor the future so unreal as
heretofore.
	One delightful May morning when the
lilacs were in bloom, and the fragrance of the
apple blossoms sweet upon the air, she dressed
herself with more than usual care, for this was
to be her advent out into the great world,
albeit only to an adjoining town, whither she
had never been.  She tripped lightly down
the stairs though her heart was sad, and out
into the grove at the back to say adieu to the
trees and rocks, and brook for she had loved
them all with a childish simplicity.  She
gathered a bunch of violets and pinning
them daintily on her black dress, she went in
to say good-bye to the brothers and sisters
weeping bitterly all the time.  Her breakfast
was untasted, though the choicest morsels had
been prepared for her, and a nice lunch for
the journey.  Gloomy forebodings were in her
mind at the thoughts of leaving her dear ones,
and going forth alone.  She had never seen
Mrs. G., and the idea she formed of her was
not at all prepossessing.  Finally the moment
came, the sound of the carriage wheels and
the lumbering old coach drove up, Hepsie
kissed them all good-bye and climbed into the
stage, her eyes full of tears and her throat
with sobs; the driver cracked his whip with a
great flourish, and the four fine horses darted
forward down the road.  Looking out back of
the coach window, she saw her stately undemon-
strative mother going up the lilac walk slowly,
and wiping her eyes with her apron.
	Hepsie was rather glad her mother wept,
for she thought grown women never cried,
except when some one was dead.  Her own
tears were falling fast, but childish grief is
not of long duration, and she soon forgot her
trouble in the excitement of the journey, the
lovely scenery through which they were pass-
ing and the strange faces around her.
	There were two or three other passengers
and one old lady in green spectacles, who asked
Hepsie inquisitively where her mother was;
then seeing the black crape on her dress she
said, “O your mother's dead, poor thing! and
I s’pose your going to your rich relations.”
“My mother isn’t dead, and I’m going to
school, and I haven’t any relatives except my
uncle and cousins in Boston, and they are too
proud to care for us!  I hate my uncle any-
way, for he has locked up my grandpa’s house,
and says he’ll have it pulled down; and that’s
the reason I’m sent away, because I cried so
much for grandpa and the old house.”
	“Well, well to be sure what a chatterbox,”
and added the old lady, "you'll soon forget all
about it.”  “No, I sha’n’t” said Hepsie, “he
was the grandest man you ever saw;” “I never

[column 2]

saw him,” said the lady. “Well, if you ever
had seen him, you would think so, ane every-
body at the ‘Old Furnace’ thought so,” “Well,
I never,” said the green spectacled lady again;
“what are you talking about, the Old Fur
nace?”   Was Major Hathaway your grand-
father, the man who owned the old factory at B?”
“Well, I do declare; no wonder you thought
him grand, why everybody in these parts
knew him; and as for his wife, though she
died long ago, when I was a little girl I almost
worshiped her.  She was a rare beauty, but
what an ugly name she had, Hephzibah.”
“That’s my name” said the child quickly, “but
they call me Hepsie nowadays?” “Well?
well! I never did,” the old lady repeated
again and again, under her breath. "Why he
was very old, ninety-six or seven he must have
been.”
	Hepsie had wakened early that morning and
she had become so exhausted with crying that
after answering many more of the lady’s in-
terrogations she fell fast asleep in the coach
and forgot her great sorrow.
	It was late in the afternoon ere they reached
the place of destination, and the old lady in
the green spectacles had been put down at one
of the towns on the way.  The stage driver had
been directed where to leave Hepsie, and ar-
riving at the parsonage just outside the centre
of the town of M., he stopped and lifted the
little girl out.  Mrs. G. was in waiting, and
came out to meet her; the driver lifted down
the little hair trunk, that contained Hepsie’s
wardrobe and carried it up the steps.  She
had never been away from home alone before
and was so timid that she trembled with fright,
besides she had been forewarned that she
could not “put on airs” with Mrs. Grovesner.
The lady inquired kindly if she were tired,
and asked concerning her mother’s health, and
then ushered her into a large, square, sitting-
room, so antique and curious in style, as to
cause her to compare it with grandpa’s dining-
room in the old, old house, from which she
was now as she believed shut out forever.
Everything was bewilderingly strange.  After
partaking some refreshment as it was not time
tor “tea,” Hepsie walked out into the garden,
and there again she was reminded of the farm.
The shrubbery was charming, and the apple-
blossoms, dainty perfume scented all the air;
the ground was covered with pretty pink and
white leaves, and the garden seemed like a
fairy bower.
	The house itself viewing it from the out-
side was quite as romantic as the one she
had loved so well, and Hepsie found her-
self wondering if the long dark passages
under the sloping sides of the gambrel-roof,
contained as many old papers as there was at
her grandfather’s, and if so, whether Mrs.
Grovesner would let her rummage them over,
and sit and read all day in the garret as she
used to do sometimes in the past.  When night
came the house seemed gloomy and Hepsie
wondered and was awed by the stillness, for at
home the children made merry music with
their chatter and laughter.  The minister for
the husband of Mrs. Grovesner was the Rev.
Erasmus Grovesner, looked very solemn and
spoke only to “Deborah,” for so he designated
his wife, and Hepsie queried whether he loved
her, he spoke so coldly; for the child had heard
her grandpa talk a great deal about love, and
of his undying love for her grandmother; and
though she could not know exactly what love
meant, still it embodied her childish idea of
true happiness.  Mrs. G. was occupied with
some plain needle work, and Hepsie scarcely
knew what to do with her hands; and was
very restless; besides she wanted to ask a lot
of questions, but she dare not for the silence
to her was something painful.  Finally prayer
was offered in such a stately way, and not the
least impressive to the child, and Hepsie was

[column 3]

informed it was time for her to retire.  Mrs.
Grovesner showed her to a little low chamber,
a long way from the sitting room, and the
hall and stairways were so dark, that she
shivered with fear for she was in some respects
a coward; and the stories of ghosts and giants
were vivid in her mind.  The woman took no
notice of the child, she had been requested to
discipline her, and considered this was the
proper course to take, and, it required firmness
and she was just the one to undertake such a
task.		
	The little room was still as the grave,
and the bed looked as though no one had ever
slept in it, Mrs. G. put the candle down and,
said “good night,” and in a moment Hopsie
fell to soliloquizing as usual, “I’m sure I can’t
sleep, what a dismal place this is, how quiet
and gloomy.  So this is the beginning of the
discipline mother said Mrs. G. would give me;”
and by this time she had burst into tears;
childish relief, and ofttimes a blessed relief to
older children too, when the heart is full to
overflowing.  Poor Hepsie imagined herself
cruelly treated, and at once conceived the idea
of writing her life and making this the first
chapter.  She repeated over and over the mul-
tiplication table and then all the  verses she
knew, and while thus engaged fell fast asleep.
			[To be continued.]


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE LADY DOCTORS OF INDIA.
     “The Englishman’s Overland Mail" says:
In India lady doctors are now familiar to us,
and although at first  they may have been
somewhat ridiculed by those who could not
appreciate their value, they are fast making
their presence felt for good almost in every
corner of the land.  So far as the native
women of this country are concerned, it is
gratifying to note that their success in all
branches of college education is progressing to
the entire satisfaction of their professors.
Not only have they proved themselves to be
generally well fitted for the arduous duties at-
tendant on medical studies, but they have in
some cases succeeded beyond all ordinary ex-
pectation.  Bombay, Madras, the North West
Provinces, and the Punjaub all return flatter-
ing reports on the subject, and when we say
that a class of female students can average
over 700 marks out of 1,000 in a surgical ex-
amiantion, as we hear has recently been the
case, little can be said against their power, or
skill, or aptitude for gaining knowledge in one
of the most important branches of the medical
profession.  Indeed, it appears not unlikely
that women in India may prove themselves by
no means inferior to men in most branches of
the practice of medicine, if the progress made
by native females in hospital work may be
taken as a criterion.  In many cases they have
proved themselves superior to male students
in college examinations, and in no way behind
them in application, power of reasoning and
resource.  The fact that much of their success.
 is due to the great interest taken in their
studies by their lecturers and professors is not
without a certain special significance.


The golden moments in the stream of life
rush past us, and we see nothing but sand; the
angels come to visit us, and we only know them
when they are gone.—George Eliot.
	Run not into debt, either for wares sold or
money borrowed; be content to want things
that are not of absolute necessity rather than
to run up the score.—Sir M. Hale.
	Our brains are seventy-year clocks. The
angel of life winds them up once for all, then
closes the case and gives the key into the hands
of the angel of the resurrection.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

[Column 1]

had a friend in whom she reposed great con-
fidence, living in a town about thirty miles
away, the wife of a clergyman, who had no
daughter of her own, and whose superior edu-
cation and accomplishments would be a great
advantage to Hepsie in developing her un-
formed character, and so 'twas settled at home
with the family, and preparations were rapidly
made for the journey. Letters were inter-
changed between Mrs. H. and Mrs. G., and
the latter was given instructions in regard to
discipilining the mind and character of the
eccentric child whose guidance she was about
to undertake. The new dresses and other
wearing apparel awakened but little interest
in this unsophisticated child, but the thought
of leaving the dear old places, the familiar
scenes where she had spent her happy child-
hood almost overcame her and she wept bitter-
ly when she was reminded that she was going
among strangers. However, she was just
beginning to learn that life was not all made
up of fancies, and indeed the death of her
grandfather had worked a radical change in
the tenor of her thoughts. She was more
serious and contemplative and earth was not
quite so rosy-hued nor the future so unreal as
heretofore.
	One delightful May morning when the
lilacs were in bloom, and the fragrance of the
apple blossoms sweet upon the air, she dressed
herself with more than usual care, for this was
to be her advent out into the great world,
albeit only to an adjoining town, whither she
had never been. She tripped lightly down
the stairs though her heart was sad, and out
into the grove at the back to say adieu to the
trees and rocks, and brook for she had loved
them all with a childish simplicity. She
gathered a bunch of violets and pinning
them daintily on her black dress, she went in
to say good-bye to the brothers and sisters
weeping bitterly all the time. Her breakfast
was untasted, though the choicest morsels had
been prepared for her, and a nice lunch for
the journey. Gloomy forebodings were in her
mind at the thoughts of leaving her dear ones,
and going forth alone. She had never seen
Mrs. G., and the idea she formed of her was
not at all prepossessing. Finally the moment
came, the sound of the carriage wheels and
the lumbering old coach drove up, Hepsie
kissed them all good-bye and climbed into the
stage, her eyes full of tears and her throat
with sobs; the driver cracked his whip with a
great flourish, and the four fine horses darted
forward down the road. Looking out back of
the coach window, she saw her stately undemon-
strative mother going up the lilac walk slowly,
and wiping her eyes with her apron.
	Hepsie was rather glad her mother wept,
for she thought grown women never cried,
except when some one was dead. Her own
tears were falling fast, but childish grief is
not of long duration, and she soon forgot her
trouble in the excitement of the journey, the
lovely scenery through which they were pass-
ing and the strange faces around her.
	There were two or three other passengers
and one old lady in green spectacles, who asked
Hepsie inquisitively where her mother was;
then seeing the black crape on her dress she
said, "O your mother's dead, poor thing! and
 I s'pose your going to your rich relations."
"My mother isn't dead, and I’m going to
school, and I haven't any relatives except my
uncle and cousins in Boston, and they are too
proud to care for us! I hate my uncle any-
way, for he has locked up my grandpa's house,
and says he'll have it pulled down; and that's
the reason I'm sent away, because I cried so
much for grandpa and the old house."
	"Well, well to be sure what a chatterbox,"
and added the old lady, "you'll soon forget all
about it." "No, I sha'n't" said Hepsie, "he
was the grandest man you ever saw;" "I never

[Column 2]

saw him," said the lady. "Well, if you ever,
had seen him, you would think so, ane every-
body at the 'Old Furnace' thought so," "Well,
I never," said the green spectacled lady again;
"what are you talking about, the Old Fur
nace?" Was Major Hathaway your grand-
father, the man who owned the old factory at B?"
"Well, I do declare; no wonder you thought
him grand, why everybody in these parts
knew him; and as for his wife, though she
died long ago, when I was a little girl I almost
worshiped her. She was a rare beauty, but
what an ugly name she had, Hephzibah."
"That's my name," said the child quickly, "but
they call me Hepsie nowadays?" "Well?
well! I never did," the old lady repeated
again and again, under her breath. 'Why he
was very old, ninety-six or seven he must have
been."
	Hepsie had wakened early that morning and
she had become so exhausted with crying that
after answering many more of the lady's in-
terrogations she fell fast asleep in the coach
and forgot her great sorrow.
	It was late in the afternoon ere they reached
the place of destination, and the old lady in
the green spectacles had been put down at one
of the towns on the way. The stage driver had
been directed where to leave Hepsie, and ar-
riving at the parsonage just outside the centre
of the town of M., he stopped and lifted the
little girl out. Mrs. G. was in waiting, and
came out to meet her; the driver lifted down
the little hair trunk, that contained Hepsie's
wardrobe and carried it up the steps. She
had never been away from home alone before
and was so timid that she trembled with fright,
besides she had been forewarned that she
could not "put on airs" with Mrs. Grovesner.
The lady inquired kindly if she were tired,
and asked concerning her mother's health, and
then ushered her into a large, square, sitting-
room, so antique and curious in style, as to
cause her to compare it with grandpa's dining-
room in the old, old house, from which she
was now as she believed shut out forever.
Everything was bewilderingly strange. After
partaking some refreshment as it was not time
for "tea," Hepsie walked out into the garden,
and there again she was reminded of the farm.
The shrubbery was charming, and the apple-
blossoms, dainty perfume scented all the air;
the ground was covered with pretty pink and
white leaves, and the garden seemed like a
fairy bower.
	The house itself viewing it from the out-
side was quite as romantic as the one she
had loved so well, and Hepsie found her-
self wondering if the long dark passages
under the sloping sides of the gambrel-roof,
contained as many old papers as there was at
her grandfather's, and if so, whether Mrs.
Grovesner would let her rummage them over,
and sit and read all day in the garret as she
used to do sometimes in the past. When night
came the house seemed gloomy and Hepsie
wondered and was awed by the stillness, for at
home the children made merry music with
their chatter and laughter. The minister for
the husband of Mrs. Grovesner was the Rev.
Erasmus Grovesner, looked very solemn and
spoke only to "Deborah," for so he designated
his wife, and Hepsie queried whether he loved
her, he spoke so coldly; for the child had heard
her grandpa talk a great deal about love, and
of his undying love for her grandmother; and
though she could not know exactly what love
meant, still it embodied her childish idea of
true happiness. Mrs. G. was occupied with
some plain needle work, and Hepsie scarcely
knew what to do with her hands; and was
very restless; besides she wanted to ask a lot
of questions, but she dare not for the silence
to her was something painful. Finally prayer
was offered in such a stately way, and not the
least impressive to the child, and Hepsie was

[Column 3]

informed it was time for her to retire. Mrs.
Grovesner showed her to a little low chamber,
a long way from the sitting room, and the
hall and stairways were so dark, that she
shivered with fear for she was in some respects
a coward; and the stories of ghosts and giants
were vivid in her mind. The woman took no
notice of the child, she had been requested to
discipline her, and considered this was the
proper course to take, and, it required firmness
and she was just the one to undertake such a
task.
	The little room was still as the grave,
and the bed looked as though no one had ever
slept in it, Mrs. G. put the candle down and,
said "good night," and in a moment Hopsie
fell to soliloquizing as usual, "I'm sure I can't
sleep, what a dismal place this is, how quiet
and gloomy. So this is the beginning of the
discipline mother said Mrs. G. would give me;"
and by this time she had burst into tears;
childish relief, and ofttimes a blessed relief to
older children too, when the heart is full to
overflowing. Poor Hepsie imagined herself
cruelly treated, and at once conceived the idea
of writing her life and making this the first
chapter. She repeated over and over the mul-
tiplication table and then all the verses she
knew, and while thus engaged fell fast asleep.
		[To be continued.]

THE LADY DOCTORS OF INDIA.

	"The Englishman's Overland Mail" says:
In India lady doctors are now familiar to us,
and although at first they may have been
somewhat ridiculed by those who could not
appreciate their value, they are fast making
their presence felt for good almost in every
corner of the land. So far as the native
women of this country are concerned, it is
gratifying to note that their success in all
branches of college education is progressing to
the entire satisfaction of their professors.
Not only have they proved themselves to be
generally well fitted for the arduous duties at-
tendant on medical studies, but they have in
some cases succeeded beyond all ordinary ex-
pectation. Bombay, Madras, the North West
Provinces, and the Punjaub all return flatter-
ing reports on the subject, and when we say
that a class of female students can average
over 700 marks out of 1,000 in a surgical ex-
amiantion, as we hear has recently been the
case, little can be said against their power, or
skill, or aptitude for gaining knowledge in one
of the most important branches of the medical
profession. Indeed, it appears not unlikely
that women in India may prove themselves by
no means inferior to men in most branches of
the practice of medicine, if the progress made
by native females in hospital work may be
taken as a criterion. In many cases they have
proved themselves superior to male students
in college examinations, and in no way behind
them in application, power of reasoning and
resource. The fact that much of their success
is due to the great interest taken in their
studies by their lecturers and professors is not
without a certain special significance.

	The golden moments in the stream of life
rush past us, and we see nothing but sand; the
angels come to visit us, and we only know them
when they are gone.—George Eliot.
	Run not into debt, either for wares sold or
money borrowed; be content to want things
that are not of absolute necessity rather than
to run up the score.—Sir M. Hale.
	Our brains are seventy-year clocks. The
angel of life winds them up once for all, then
closes the case and gives the key into the hands
of the angel of the resurrection.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY GREETING AND RESPONSE. 

	To Brother William Willes, on his 75th Birthday, July
5th, 1889. written in Fast Meeting, while listening to
Brother Willes remarks.

	On this thy Birthday, Brother Dear, 
		I wish a wish for thee, 
	Prompted by feelings most sincere
		Of kindred sympathy.  

	Fasting not feasting, we today 
		In every temporal sense:
	Yet, the good Spirit, while we pray
		Gives more than recompense.  
			
	To listen to thy earnest tone, 
		To watch thy silvery hair. 
	Gives pleasure, to the world unknown, 
		And calls forth fervent prayer

	For, from thy lips proceedeth free
		Words of Eternal Truth; 
	In thee a man of God we see, 
		Faithful, e'en from thy youth. 

	The wish, the prayer I breathe for thee, 
		Dear father, brother, friend, 
	Is, that thy days may many be,
		And prosperous to the end.
			
	Thy little grandchild here today,
		A gift of choicest worth,
	Thou blessedst-many more I pray
		Such gifts be thine on Earth, 

	And in that world of peace and bliss
		Of which thou speakest well. 
	May we, in meetings such as this 
		God's power and mercies tell. 
			L. L. G. Richards. 

	Reply to Sister L. L. G. Richards' Good wishes, on
my 75th Birthday, July 5th 1889.

	Tis true, I'm seventy-five today
		I freely must confess;
	And with my heart and soul do say
		No language can express
	The gratitude I feel to Him
		Who lengthens out my days
	That I am healthy, bright and trim
		For which I render praise.

	But, most of all, my thanks are due
		To know the Gospel plan.
	And hope to stand the journey through
		And prove myself a man.
	And never falter; turn aside,
		Or e'en unworthy prove,
	By envy, lust, or worldly pride;
		Keeping my thoughts above.

	The kind regards your verse reveals
		Doth cheer and comfort me,
	And firm and strong our friendship seals
		And sets my soul quite free.
	Should those good wishes you portray
		By me be realized
	They represent a bright array
		By me most highly prized.

	I now reciprocate the same,
		The wishes you express;
	That, every blessing I can name
		For you to cheer and bless.
	And may the honor you bestow
		Upon my hoary head,
	In streams of blessings ever flow,
		Profusely on you shed,
			Wm. Willes.


[Column 1]

TRIFLES.

	"Think naught a trifle, though it small appear,
	Sands make the mountains, moments make the year,
	And trifles, life. Your care to trifles give 
	Else you may die, ere you have learned to live."

	The term trifles, as we look upon it, suggests
to our minds something of little value or im-
portance. Yet, if we consider these trifles, when
brought together and arranged systematically,

[Column 2]

the aggregate will astonish us. This vast
universe is composed of minute particles, each
of which alone is useless; yet when arranged
under the all powerful hand of the Creator,
how infinitely grand and wonderful the result.
Each grain of sand, each drop of water,
though alone of no value, fills its own office
and fits into its own place. Even the smallest
particle has a mission to fulfill. One drop of
water, and one grain of sand, would never be
missed, but by the displacing of these particles
one by one, the faces of continents have been
changed, and oceans have been obliterated.
	Compared with this great world of beings,
each individual is but a trifle, yet, how sadly
one is missed from the home circle, which
gathers at the fireside, though many be left.
To make the gathering complete, the absent
one is needed.
	Our character, good or bad, is made up by
little acts repeated again and again, until
habits become so fixed upon us, that it is
next to impossible to get rid of them. Each
act helps to make up the great fabric of
character which we begin to weave in our
earliest childhood, and continue to old age, and
which affects our destiny, not only for time,
but for eternity.
	An act of charity is a small thing, some-
times, but the giving of a penny; yet some one is
made happy by it, and is grateful for that
which we never miss.
	A kind word is a trifle, and requires but
very little effort on our part, yet how powerful
is its influence; many have been spurred on to
great and glorious deeds, by kind words spoken
to them when they had met reverses, and had
resolved never to try again; and as many more
have gone to destruction for the want of a kind
word at the moment of temptation. Kind
words are like the sweetest flowers which shed
their fragrance round us and make us raise our
hearts in gratitude to our Maker.
	Harsh words are like the thorns and bram-
bles which surround the fairest and most
fragrant blossoms; they sink into the heart as
thorns do into the flesh, leaving a painful and
bleeding wound.
	A tiny spark may set fire to a house, the
flames spread and soon a whole village is de-
stroyed. A miser counts every penny, know-
ing that cents make dollars, and that each one
will help him to make that for which he is
aiming—a fortune; to him, each penny rep-
resents its true value, the one hundredth part
of a dollar. A tiny needle points the way far
across the trackless ocean, and enables the
mariner to keep a direct course. A step is a
trifle, yet step added to step, connects the At-
lantic with the Pacific. A shingle torn from
a roof is a small thing, if replaced at once no
harm will be done, if allowed to remain off,
the rain will come in and with it damage and
ruin.
	The value of a nail is small, but,

	"For the want of a nail the shoe was lost,
	For the want of a shoe the horse was lost,
	For the want of a horse the rider was lost;
	And all for the want of a horseshoe nail."

	A small spring swelled by slight additions,
forms the wonderful Nile. Our mighty Mis-
sippi has its source in an insignificant lake
many miles from its mouth.
	"As minutes make the hours, and hours
make the year, as drops make the rain and
rain makes the floods," so all small things lead
to great ones. From the little acorn springs
the lofty oak; from the tiny streamlet flows
the mighty rivers; from the scattered seed
sown in the early spring time, come the un-
counted millions of the harvest.
	Many of our greatest inventions owe their
existence to seemingly trivial events; and our
most wonderful discoveries can be traced to
occurrences so small that they have been over-
looked for centuries.

[Column 3]

	A boiling kettle suggested the use of steam
as a propelling force, and gave rise to that
iron monarch whose paths cross and recross
our continents. Without this invention we
should still suffer the numberless trials which
our forefathers underwent, when traveling was
carried on in old fashioned stage coaches.
From the date of the use of steam in naviga-
tion and locomotion, people began to travel
more and to learn more of distant countries.
Before this they looked upon traveling as a
trial, now they look upon it as a pleasure.
	A few rude types made of wood, formed the
beginning of the art of printing, by which we
are enabled to become familiar with the
thoughts of the greatest minds. These types
were improved until they attained the per-
fection of the modern printing-press. Still, all
the type in use to-day, and all the improvements
anticipated for the future, are, and will be,
the outcome of the rude invention of Carter.
	"Trifles make perfection, but perfection is
no trifle."
	The swinging of a lamp before an altar
gave to Galileo the idea of a pendulum and
the laws of oscillation. Without this dis-
covery, we should still be using the sun-dial.
	A thing as small and insignificant as an
apple, which chanced to fall to the ground
suggested to the mighty mind of Sir Isaac
Newton, the laws of gravitation and revealed
to him the mysteries of the starry vault of
the heavens. Over both these questions,
he had pondered long; and in succeeding
years, they would have puzzled other brains
as great, if the falling apple had not solved
the problem.
	Victor Hugo says; If it had not rained on
the night between the seventeenth aud eigh-
teenth of June, 1815, Napoleon would have
gained a decided victory over Wellington at
Waterloo and France would have held Eng-
land in her power. The rain made the ground
too soft to permit the manuvres of the artil-
lery on which Napoleon invariably depended.
Could the battle have begun early in the
morning, instead of at noon, the victory would
have been won by the French. The delay
gave the detachment of Prussians under
Blucher time to outmarch the French division
under Grouchy. The French lines, panic
stricken by Blucher's sudden appearance broke
and fled, leaving Wellington victor of the
field. The power of water as a mass is un-
questioned. In a moment, it sweeps thousands
of human beings into eternity. The power of
a few drops at Waterloo is more mysterious;
and yet, they changed the destiny of nations
and revolutionized all Europe.
	Graduating Essay.
		Sarah Adey.
June 29, 1889.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A Women's Silk Culture Association of
Massachusetts has been formed to introduce
silk culture into industrial schools and the
farming districts of the State.
	The wives of the Archbishop of Canterbury
and Archbishop of York signed the declara-
tion in favor of woman suffrage in the Fort-
nightly Review. So did the lady principals of
Girton and Newnham College.
	According to a paper read at the Woman's
Rights Congress in Paris by Mme. Fries,
women in Sweden are employed as bank clerks
and managers, professors in boys' high schools,
working jewelers, watch-makers, and in every
sort of wood-carving. The education of nearly
every Swedish girl not born to fortune, is in a
great degree industrial. There is no doubt, the
speaker added, that the Swedish women will
soon be granted the right of suffrage.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMILINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Adverstising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
t o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	AUGUST 1, 1889.


[Column 1]

ROYAL WEDDING.

	"Princess Louise, eldest daughter of the Prince
of Wales, was married at noon July 28 to the Earl
of Fife; it was raining. The ceremony took place
in the private chapel of Buckingham palace.
This is the first marriage that ever took place in
the chapel, which is small and the number of
guests therefore limited. Bride and groom arrived
privately. The Princess of Wales, the Crown
Prince of Denmark, King of Greece, Prince Al-
bert Victor and Prince George of Wales assem-
bled in the Bow library of Buckingham palace at
11:45, and there awaited the arrival of the Queen
from her private apartments.
	The bridal party, consisting of the Prince of
Wales, Princess Louise, Princesses Victoria and
Maud of Wales left Marlborough house, the
residence of the Prince of Wales, at 11:40 for
Buckingham palace. Notwithstanding the rain,
the route to the palace was crowded with specta-
tors and there was a vast concourse of people
opposite the palace. The Prince of Wales was
enthusiastically cheered.
	On their arrival in the Bow library the Queen,
accompanied by the Grand Duke of Hesse, led
the procession to the chapel. It comprised the
Queen, members of the royal family, the King of
Greece, the Crown Prince of Denmark and other
guests and officers of the royal household. The
procession on its way to the church passed
through several royal apartments in which many
guests, who found it impossible to enter the
chapel, were seated. Upon reaching the chapel
he royal personages took seats on either side of
he altar.
	The Earl of Fife, who was attired in a highland
costume and wore the garter of the Duffs, accom-
panied by the groomsman, Horace Farquhar, took
a position at the altar rail and awaited the coming
of the bride. The prince of Wales, with the
bride and Princesses Victoria and Maud of
Wales and members of the household arrived at
the palace just before noon, and were received by
the lord steward and conducted to the Bow library
where the bride was joined by the bridesmaids,
Princesses Victoria and Maud of Wales, Prin-
cess Louise of Schleswig-Holstein, Princess
Victoria of Teck, Countess Fedora Gleichen,
Countess Victoria Gleichen and Countess Helena
Gleichen. The bridal party then proceeded to
the chapel. The bride wore a duchesse dress of
white satin with a flowing train, trimmed with
orange blossoms, a wreath of orange blossoms
and a point de gaze veil.
	The bridesmaids were dressed in blush pink
faille, and carried bouquets of pink roses. The
clergymen officiating were the archbishop of Can-
tenbury, the bishop of London, the dean of
Windsor, domestic chaplain to the Queen, Pev.
F. A. J. Harvey, domestic chaplain to the Prince

[Column 2]

of Wales, and Rev. T. Teigmouth Shore. The
Prince of Wales gave away the bride. The
choral service was sung by the choir of the
Chapel Royal, St. James. The feature of the
service was the singing of a special anthem en-
titled "O, Perfect Love," composed by Joseph
Barnaby. There were many of the ministers
present. Gladstone was also among the guests.
	The Queen wore a dress of black brocade and
appeared to be in excellent health and spirits.
The Princess of Wales was attired in a pearl
gray satin brocaded with silver, and a tiara of
diamonds. After the benediction the Queen
kissed the bride and cordially greeted the groom.
After the wedding there were two separate break-
fasts in separate chambers in Buckingham palace.
One party consisted of the bride and groom, the
Queen and other royal personages and other
guests. Toasts were given to the Queen and
groom. After breakfast, the Earl and bride, the
Princess of Wales and bridesmaids returned to
Marlborough house, the bride and bridegroom oc-
cuping the first carriage. Later in the afternoon
the newly married couple departed for Sheen
house, a surburban residence of the Earl of Fife,
where a portion of the honey moon is to be
spent.
	On arriving at Sheen house the newly wedded
pair were enthuastically welcomed. They passed
between files of Venetian masts decorated with
floral festoons. The house was covered with car-
pet, on which wild flowers were strewn by girls
dressed in white. At night Mort lake and Rich-
mond, in the vicinity of Earl Fife's house, were
illuminated.
	The Prince of Wales gave a reception at
Marlborough house this evening, which was at-
tended by 10,000 persons."


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	When in Brigham City attending the Conference
in June, Pres. Harriet A. Snow took the writer
out to see the Sisters' granary, and it was a very
great surprise to see how energetic the sisters had
been, in building, and saving grain. It seemed
such a model granary that we felt perhaps the
sisters would like to have a description of it given
to them in the Exponent. Mrs. Emilie D. Madsen
has furnished some particulars. The diminsions
of the granary are 43 1/2 feet long 21 1/2 feet wide
12 feet high built of bricks and covered with an
iron roof. It is divided into apartments so that
the grain can be moved from one to another. The
sisters have a considerably large quantity of
grain stored, and prospects of more and it is to be
hoped other settlements will take pattern from
them and build substantial granaries and fill them
with grain for it will surely be needed. 
	We have received a little book of 16 pages, paper
cover, by Elder John Sears, entitled, "Remember 
The Sabbath Day To Keep It Holy." It is writ-
ten on the subject mentioned and quotations
suitable to the matter are used from the Bible,
Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants.
Printed at the Juvenile Instructor Office, price
5cts. The keeping of the Sabbath Day holy is a
commandment somewhat disregarded at the pres-
ent day, and it is well for us all to refresh our
minds upon these things and sacredly observe
the commandments given by the inspired servants
of God that we may not be under condemnation.
It is a serious reflection upon a people professing
to be saints, when they disregard the Sabbath
and make it a day of pleasure instead of attend-
ing to their meetings and partaking of the sacra-
ment. It is to be hoped that this little book will
be circulated among the people and accomplish
the good, the author designed in publishing it.
We are very much pleased with the little work
and trust it may be a reminder to some dilatory
ones of their duties in this regard.


At the General Conference of the Relief Society
in Salt Lake City in April last, there was not
sufficient time for the Presidents of all the Stakes
to make verbal reports. Sister Young's Counsel-
ors had only been recently appointed and
would of course be expected to speak, and
make some recognition of their position,
and the written address from the Presi-
dent herself occupied a part of the time, and
the President called upon the Representatives
from a distance, as many as there was time to
hear from, Sister Willmirth East of St. Joseph
Stake was called for, but as she did not respond
it was concluded she was not present. It was
afterwards learned that she had come after time
and that she was to late to get in. The following
evening the officers of the Relief Society and
representatives from a distance met at the resi-
dence of Sister Young where other reports were
made and much instruction given, but it was not
considered necessary to publish it as it was per-
fectly understood by those present, that it was
for the Presidents benefit, suggestions and hints
to help them in their labors among the sisters.
It is a matter of regret that any one should feel
that a proper representation had not been made,
as it was the express wish and desire of the Pres-
ident that each one should have sufficient time
allotted them.


WHY OFFENDED.

	It seems astonishing sometimes to learn that
every Church in Christendom is offended with us:
Yes offended with the faith which we believe
should be ours and not only ours, but that of
every human being, since God is our Father.
Yet I think I can understand why it is. We are
as a family or a people strongly attached to our
friends; and especially those who are good or
Godlike beings made in His image and possessing
his attributes, we readily love that which we think
is worthy of our affections, and feel to resent an
injury to those persons as much as we would
for ourselves.
	Is not self love, and self conceit, a part of the
ingredients that our characters are composed of?
And when we measure ourselves by sound prin-
ciples and sound doctrine which Jesus gave to
the whole human family we then loose our grasp
upon self conceit and look upon the subject as we
ought to do. I well remember how disgusted
I was with the name of Mormons. And I being
told of a person who said the Lord was not
pleased with the various churches of the Sectar-
ian world and he did not acknowledge them
as His.
	I quietly asked who said it, or made this asser-
tion. Upon being told that it was a young man
in his teens, about 15 years of age: I replied,
does he think that he knows more about this than
our aged Minister Mr. Burgess who baptised me,
and who has been searching the scriptures all his
life and preaching from them for years?  I think
this young man was very cheeky and an impudent
fellow. I do not want to see him or hear him
speak. These were some of my feelings. Ac-
cordingly I judge others feelings by my own. I
believe there are many people who have a sincere
devotion to God, and yet look upon us with dis-
gust and pity us, believing we are deluded.
	Now the question arises how and when did
you change your mind. It was some time before
I would listen to my friends who were going to
hear a Mormon preach just opposite to us, in the
Court house. I was at the time spending a little
time with a friend of mine in the City of Utica
N. Y. Mrs. Monroe. A brother of hers told her
of this people and wished her to go and hear them
if they came that way. Accordingly she did so,
but I would not go. I was tired of excitement
and had joined the Episcopal Church because it


[Column 1]

was free from excitement of any kind. Besides
I told her we had no need of his golden bible.
We had the Savior's teachings, did we want any
more than this to qualify us to come into His
presence.
	She told me he (Mr. Blakesley) preached from
the old bible, I would not object to hear it. Well
said I, can he do that better than Mr. Proll our
minister here in Utica. Finally I was persuaded
to go and hear for myself, remembering King
Solomons words. "He who judges a motto with-
out hearing it is a fool."
	He was showing that a new era or dispensation
was beginning to open upon the world and we
were required to be very particular in observing
our Lord and Savior's teaching while here, before
He suffered death upon the cross. I could find
no fault with this: as we all believed this. But
did we realy delieve it? Did we believe those
words of Jesus, the gifts and graces which
characterized the church should be to you, and
your children afar off, even as many as the Lord
our God shall call. Oh no! We believe they
were given to establish the church and then taken
away because they were no longer needed. But
does the bible say this?
	No: It says they were given for the perfecting
of the Saints, the work of the ministry, the edify-
ing of the church until all came in the unity of
the faith. He also showed that after the death of
our Savior and also all His apostles excepting
the apostle John, a vision was given him in which
he saw another angel with the everlasting gospel
to deliver to those who dwell upon the earth.
	We also learn from this strange people that
many ancient prophecies are already fulfilled and
the remainder will be before the second coming
of Jesus to earth. We read from our old bible
the words of one of the ancient sayings. "The
Lord will do nothing but He will reveal his
secret to His servants the prophets. How was it
when Elijah was caught up to heaven without
tasting death. You remember that he told Elisha
to tarry here for the Lord has sent me to Jericho.
But Elisha said as the Lord liveth, and as thy
soul liveth I will not leave thee. So they went to
Jericho. And the sons of the prophets that were
at Jericho came forth to Elisha and said knowest
thou that the Lord will take away thy master from
thy hand to day. And he said yea I know it, hold
ye your peace, this was done again at Bethel.
But Elisha would not tarry but went with him.
And again the sons of the prophets asked if he
knew that the Lord would take away his master
from his hand. His reply was the same, saying
hold your peace. 2nd Kings 2nd chap.
	Here we see this great event was known to the
prophets: and not only this but many others.
After hearing these sermons and some others the
Bible seemed to me like a new book, and more in-
teresting than any other I had read. I soon be-
came thoroughly convinced that our Savior's
commands were the only ones for us to revere:
and He only gave two; The first was to love the
Lord with all your might mind and strength, and
surely the Ancient prophets did this, to obtain
the great rewards of knowledge of God's works
among the children of men on the earth. They
must become fit temples for the indwelling of
His holy spirit that they may know Him as He is,
and learn of His ways.
	I soon became anxious to visit our Episcopal
minister Rev. Mr. Proll of Utica. I was quite
sure he would be delighted to investigate these
principles, accordingly I went in company with
Miss Ruth Reese. He met us kindly and invited
us to take a chair, saying, so you are going to run
away and leave us, no not run away, I replied. I
came to see you first. Well said he you must re-
member. "Whether there be prophecies they
must fail and tongues shall cease;" but he did not
add the next sentence in the same verse. I added
it for him. "And knowledge will vanish away."

[Column 2]

I said I thought it had, for I supposed I belonged
to the Apostolic Church but it did not have the
gifts and graces which characterized that Church.
	He then said, "whoever shall add to the words
or prophecy of this book to him shall be added
the plagues." Yes I know this to be St. Johns
vision. The bible was not compiled at that time:
This vision was a separate book, and he, whoever
said he saw any more or less, to him should be
added the plagues: but he was told he should
prophecy before many nations kindred tongues
and people. Well said he you are young and will
see the error of your ways and come back. I
must excuse him as he was expected to visit a sick
person. He had no time to investigate. I saw
plainly he could not be persuaded to look at the
subject, yet felt to pray he might at some future
time, if he did not fear to lose his salary. I was
not willing to throw away so much of the bible as
he did. Accordingly I still clung to this gospel
hoping to gain more light and intelligence from
the fountain of light, and be a fit temple for the
indwelling of God's holy Spirit. And it will surely
be given to the earnest seeker.
		M. E. KIMBALL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Eliza Jerusha Gibbs Fox wife of Elder Jesse
W. Fox, who died June 26, twenty minutes to
three p. m. at the family residence in the Four-
teenth Ward in this City, was born May 8, 1831,
at Benson, Rutland County, Vermont. She be-
longed to the famous Carter family who figured
so conspiciously in the early history of the
Church, being a sister of "Gideon Carter, who
was killed in the battle of Crooked river in the
Missouri persecutions;" and of John Carter who
was the first one to fall a victim to the cholera in
Zion's Camp, of which he was a member." Her
mother was a convert to the Mormon faith in a
very early day in Vermont, shortly after the
Church was organized in the State of New York
and removed with her family to Kirtland in 1834,
her little Eliza afterwards Mrs Fox being then
only three years old. Mrs. Gibbs was a widow
her husband having died a short time before Eliza
was born. Deceased was brought up in the
Church, participating with the Saints in their driv-
ings, wanderings and persecutions, having lived
in Kirtland, Ohio and partaken of the blessings
there vouch safed to the Saints when she was
only a child, also removed with the people to
Missouri and thus shared in the hardships and
in the drivings from there to Illinois, the City of
Nauvoo leaving there during the exodus from
that place with the body of the people.
	While  camped on the banks of the Missouri
River in 1849, Miss Eliza Gibbs was married to
Jesse W. Fox, and ever since that time they have
together shared prosperity or adversity according
to the circumstances of the Saints.
	Mrs. Fox was a genuine true-hearted wife,
mother and friend. Always ready to minister to
the needs and sufferings of others and exception-
ally devoted fo her own family. She possessed a
cheerful disposition and though she suffered great
pain and was greatly afflicted physically during
several years past, her courage and endurance
kept her from murmuring or repining and she al-
ways had a smile and a kind word for all.
	Mrs. Fox has been the mother of four children
one son and three daughters, two of her daughters
had gone before her to the spirit-land and there
was no doubt a joyful meeting when her spirit left
its mortal tabernacle. Her demise was unlooked
for at the time, though she had for years been
feeble, but her death was sweet and peaceful as
though falling into a quiet slumber. Her hus-
band and family however were greatly shocked
as they were fondly attached to her, and the blow
fell suddenly. The funeral was conducted at the


home at three o'clock p. m. June 28th and was
numerously attended. The greatest respect was
shown to the deceased and the family and the
speakers on the occasion made the most consol-
ing remarks to the living and in praise of the
good character and good works of the one just
departed. We deeply sympathise with the
bereaved husband and family although we feel
assured that their loss here is her everlasting gain.
She has been re-united with her dear ones who
had gone before and they rejoice in each other's
companionship.
	"They are not lost; they are within the door
		That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing—
	With angels bright, and loved ones gone before,
		In their Redeemer's presence evermore,
	And God, Himself their Lord and Judge and
		King."


JUSTICE VS. CHIVALRY.

Chivalry! women half beaten to death,
	And the punishment—well—say "a week" or a fine;
When scandals as foul as the devil's own breath,
	Crowd Society papers in every line.

Chivalry! yes! with onr streets thronged by girls
	Forced by chivalrous man to starvation or shame,
Learn what women are paid! how swine trample God's
		pearls!
	And oh! change your standard in womanhood's name.

Chivalry! yes! to the rich and the fair,
	To those who command it by tongue and by pen;
But the helpless, the plain, or the poor, oh! beware
	How you trust that mere vision of latter-day men!

Chivalry! yes! but 'mid iron and steam,
	It is justice we want on our history's page—
The chivalrous days are a long bye-gone dream,
	And the once sturdy oak is worm-eaten with age.

There are knights even now; brave knights loyal and true,
	Sound their praise; ay, and sound with unfaltering note,
The glove of the fairest is justly their due,
	Kiss their swords, for they wield them to give us a vote.

Will they love us the less? will they learn to despise
	The hands they have strengthened? a thousand times No!
Tis in strength, not in weakness, true reverence lies,
	Day breaks on the hill tops—the torches burn low.

		English Woman's Review,
			WARNER SNOAD.
June 15, 1889.


PRIMARY DAY.

	June 1, 1889, a lovely morning, the Primary
children of East Bountiful, met at the Taber-
nacle, with their little baskets to celebrate the
birthday of Brigham Young. The children
formed in a line and marched to the bench
under the shade of some fine trees, after the
children were seated, the meeting was opened
with prayer by Sister Easthope. Sister Lucie
Thurgood then addressed the children and told
them the reason why we met to-day. Spoke
of the great and noble deeds performed by
this man of God.
	Sister Dustin then spoke to the children,
said she felt well and happy, to be connected
with the Primary, and wished we could all visit
the grave of the prophet of the Lord. Sister
Easthope then spoke to the children. Carlos
Call recited, "When boys are men." We then sang
"We thank thee O God for a Prophet." The
children then had some games in which they
enjoyed themselves very much, and also in
gathering wild flowers. We then dismissed
the assembly with prayer by Carlos Call, and
returned to the Relief Society Hall; and after
asking a blessing upon the food, it was par-
taken of with a good relish.
	In the afternoon we had a dancing party
for the little folks, and all enjoyed themselves.
At the close, oranges were given to the children
and all left with smiling faces.
		LUELLA STOKER, Secretary,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ENCOURAGEMENT.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	"A woman that feareth the Lord she shall
be praised."
	I take the Liberty of writing you A few
words of praise and encouragement for our
beloved Stake Prest. Sister Willmirth East.
as I am one of her nearest neighbors and know
ing of her labors and good works in S. L. City
as a Counselor in the Relief Society ten years
in the 14th ward where she was well known
and highly respected by all the good and
honest L. D. Saints. I must say in her be-
half that she has not ceased to continue in her
good works in this far off land where she has
resided for the last ten years and held the
office of Stake Prest of the Relief Society,
both here and in the Eastern Arizona Stake.
And I know for a certainty that she has done
the works of a true and faithful L. D. Saint
in striving to build up the church and King-
dom of God in nursing and cheering up the
sick administering to the wants of the needy
and comforting the distressed as all who are
familiar with her labors can testify; myself
with the rest of the sisters here waited and
looked  with patience for the report of her
labors through the columns of the Exponent
at the late Sisters' conference held in S. L.
City, but it seems we waited in vain until this
late hour which I assure you was a great disap-
pointment to us all.
	Prest. Layton after his return home from
the recent confereuce in Salt Lake at a Sun-
day meeting held at this place remarked that
he could find no Report from our Stake Presi-
dent of the Relief Society, and could not
understand why it was not published. We at
least expected to see a notice of her safe arrival
in Salt Lake City and did not know why a
Sister so good and faithful to her duties could
not receive the least notice or respect that
should be due, as she has written so often to
the Exponent and worked so hard for its ad-
vancement we can but feel that some respect
and notice is due her, from its pages. I can
testify that Sister East has her religion at
heart or else she could not have labored so dili-
gently under the many disadvantages that she
has. I have seen her pass my door in an old
lumber wagon driving her own team going to
the adjonining settlements to fill her appoint-
ments, she did not wait for a carriage to come
after her as many of her Sisters there would
have done under similar circumstances. Both
herself and counselor Sister Mary L. Ransom
have labored incessantly to fill their callings,
and have even waited by the wayside to get a
ride in order to fill an appointment, when I
have witnessed this I have remarked to her.
"Dear Sister East would that I were able, you
would not go in that style to do your duty?"
And her reply to me would be "never mind our
Savior was poor when he was on the earth am
I better than He?" I pray there are better
days in store for her. Both the Twelve and
visiting brethren when in this vicinity always
have called upon her at her home and have
had words of comfort and a kind and hospit-
able welcome. If her home was humble
happiness was there. She is sent for by all
who are in trouble to comfort them which is
one of her greatest gifts, she is beloved by all
the saints here, the Sisters here missed her very
much and long for her safe arrival home to
see her dear face again, as I know, for they are
continually asking about her, these are the
feelings of every Sister that has spoken to me
since her departure.
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
		Jennie East.


Vote the People's Party ticket on election
day and send honorable men to the Legislature.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

SAN JUAN.

	Report of the Quarterly Conference, of the
Y. L. M. I. A. of San Juan Stake held at
Bluff, Utah May 28th 1889, Prest. M. M.
Halls presiding, Present on the stand Prest.
M. M. Halls and Coun. Mary Jones of the
Stake Presidency. Pres. Margaret Adams
and Couns. Jennie Allen and Mary Stevens
of the Bluff, ward also Prest. F. A. Hammond
and Counselors. William Hails and William
Adams. After the usual opening exercises,
the minutes of the last Conference were read
and approved, Pres. M. M. Halls, then arose
and said, she esteemed it a great privilege to
be permitted to meet with her sisters again in
conference gave some very interesting advice
to the young folks, prayed that the spirit of
God might rest upon those who should speak
during the conference.
	Coun. Mary Jones felt like responding to
every call, desired to say what the spirit might
direct, and exhorted us to be faithful and
prayerful at all times.
	Pres. Margaret Adams, reported the Bluff
ward association as doing well. Their meet-
ings during the winter had been very interest-
ing. Sister Mamie Burnham of Burnham
ward, said they held their meetings conjointly
with the young men, and were in a prosperous
condition.
	Sister Martha Hammond reported the as-
sociation of Moab ward as doing well.
	Prest. Moiselle Halls said the Mancos ward
association was in a flourishing condition.
The members all take an active part in help-
ing to make the meetings interesting. A very
interesting programme was then rendered by
members of the several associations of the
stake, after which the general and local officers
of the Y. L. M. I. A. were presented and
sustained.
	Prest Halls, said she felt pleased with the
programme that had been rendered counseled
us to respect those who are placed over us in
authority, also to be diligent in attending to
our prayers, and exhorted us to keep the Word
of Wisdom so we could claim the blessings
thereto. Prest. Hammond had been well paid
in attending our conference, gave some very
good counsel to the young, encouraged essay
writing, spoke on home industry. Conference
then adjourned, Choir sang. Israel awake,
Benediction by Bishop Neilson. Louie M.
White Sec. Mary Hammond asst. Sec.

JUAB STAKE.
	The forty-fourth Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of the Juab Stake of Zion
was held in the Nephi Tabernacle Friday June
21st, 1889.
	Pres. Mary Pitchforth presiding: After the
opening exercises of singing and prayer, and
calling the Roll and reading the minutes of
the previous Conference; the Presidents gave
verbal reports of the Branches over which they
presided.
	Mrs. E. R. Mary Udall reported Nephi,
Serena Aaggard, Levan, Mrs. Eliza Somer-
ville Mona, Sister Pitchforth reported Eureka.
The reports were very favorable showing the
Society in all its branches to be in good condi-
tion, spiritually and temporally. The sick and
the needy were visited and comforted and had
their wants supplied. The remainder of the
time was spent in short addresses by Mrs. Mary
Pitchforth, S. A. Andrews, Alice Bascome,
Miranda Bryan, and Bishop Udall. The pro-
per training of our children, the responsibility
of parents, the blessings of God to us as a peo-
ple, were spoken upon. Meeting adjourned
until 2 p. m. with singing and prayer.
	In the afternoon meeting the Secretary read
the 21st, Annual report of the Nephi Society.

[Column 2]

Mrs. A. L. Bigler made a few remarks, after
which Mrs. Andrews sang "My Own Land
Deseret." Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake City,
occupied the remainder of the time. "We
should cultivate our faith in the Gospel and
confidence in the Priesthood. No one should
think her own example is unfelt or unnoticed.
	We should use the best of language, exercise
as much or more faith and patience at home
than any where. We are rewarded as we go
along in the consciousness of doing right, be-
sides the great reward we expect when our
work is finished. The Lord has wonderfully
blessed the Relief Society since its organiza-
tion." Spoke of the storing of grain, and of
the calamities that were coming upon the in-
habitants of the earth. "We know the
prophecies are being fulfiled, and we should
be prepared to render aid temporally as well as
spiritually." Encouraged parents to send their
children to Primary meeting and cultivate
faith in them. "Young ladies should be care-
ful to marry pure men who are well developed
physically, as well as morally and spiritually,
that their children might have strong healthy
bodies. We ought to systematize our work so
that we can have moments for rest and prayer.
Zion is going to be built up as has been pre-
dicted." Spoke of the courage and heroism
displayed by women in passing through the
severe ordeals which have been brought about
during the persecution for principle and con-
science sake, and said many other good things.
	Sister Pitchforth thought there was an in-
crease of faith in our midst, was well pleased
with her labors in Juab Stake. There was a
good attendance and an excellent spirit in all
our meetings. After singing and benediction
by Patriarch J. G. Bigler, the Conference ad-
journed for three months.
		M. E. Teasdale, Sec.


GRANGER MEETINGS.

	The Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. of
Granger held their annual meeting on the
twenty-sixth of June in our new unfinished
meeting house. There were a goodly number
of the members of both organizations present,
also our Bishop Daniel McRae and his Coun-
selors. Visiting sisters from the city were
Bathsheba Smith, Helen M. Whitney, Mary
P. Young, Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, Jane and
Lillie Freeze, Della Eardley and Maria Holt.
The morning session was devoted to the Relief
Society, Mrs. Mary E. Porter, presiding. After
usual exercises, minutes and reports, Sisters
Smith, Whitney, Young and Eardley, also our
Bishop occupied the time in speaking. Ad-
journed with singing and prayer.
	At the intermission a large table was set in
the hall and a feast of good things was par-
taken of, all enjoying themselves heartily.
Afternoon session was the young ladies' an-
nual, Agnes Mackay, presiding. After sing-
ing, prayer and minutes a short programme was
rendered consisting of essays, recitations,
reading and a song with guitar accompaniment.
The visiting sisters then addressed the meet-
ing and we had literally a spiritual feast. Our
associations are all in pretty good condition
considering the settlement is so scattered.
Our Primary is thriving, except that we have
not as many boys, where are they? That's the
question.
	Our Sabbath school is doing a good work
and on the 4th of July, there was an enter-
tainment for the Sunday school at the Ward
house at which time nearly two hundred
sacks of candy and nuts were distributed to
the children from the Superintendent and his
assistants. There was a programme in the
morning and at noon a sumptuous dinner for
all at the same place; afterwards the children
indulged in dancing, which however, was inter-


rupted by the arrival of the Taylorsville
brass band, which discoursed some stirring
music, and in the evening there was a dancing
party for the grown people, and all enjoyed
themselves exceedingly well, there was nothing
to mar the days' pleasure iu the least.
		M. A. G.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WESTMINSTER ABBEY.

BY J. C. KITTREDGE.

	As one looks from the chapel of Saint Eras-
mus he sees that of Saint John. Among the
various tombs we saw that of Thomas Vaughn,
treasurer to Edward IV. While contemplat-
ing it we thought of the lines in Richard III,
"Where is Gray, Vaughn, Rivers!" The
banners that hang from the walls of this
chapel are carried at the funerals of the
Duval family.

CHAPEL OF ABBOTT ISLIP.
	The date of this chapel is 1532. The abbott
laid the foundation stone of Henry IV's
chapel. The screen is of exceptional beauty,
the carving being an exquisite piece of work.
	We have now come to the descriptions of
what appear to be rather strange objects,
namely, the wax figures. They are found
over the chapel of Saint Islip, and were car-
ried at royal funerals. In early times it was
the custom to bear the bodies of the deceased
kings and queens exposed upon a bier, as is
represented in Shakespeare's play of Richard
III, at the funeral of young Prince Edward.
But at a later date wax effigies were substituted
in their stead. That of Queen Elizabeth is of
importance, as it was probably the first one
made, and as there was great mourning at her
funeral. The one of Charles II is next in
order. Once it stood over his grave in Henry
VII's chapel. There is a figure of General
Monk. William and Mary are together, and
near them Queen Anne. Earl Chatham and
Lord Nelson are there also. The one of Lord
Nelson is of especial importance, as it is
dressed in his garments. All the figures are
attired in rich and appropriate costumes. We
wonder if those specimens were the origin of
modern wax work.

CHAPEL OF HENRY VII.

	This chapel is a great feature in the abbey.
It is the lavish monument of a parsimonious
king. The fact of its construction has some-
thing of the appearance that it was intended to
convey to posterity a different impression of
his character from what it really was. The
building in its day was a fine piece of work,
with its fretted roof and quaint carvings, and
a sufficient amount of the effect of the archi-
tecture remains to give us an impression of its
magnificence. An important feature of the
chapel is that nearly all of England's sover-
eigns from Henry VII to George II were bur-
ied there. When about to survey the chapel
one looks from the portico and sees every
phase of Gothic architecture, from the time
of Henry III to that of Henry VIII.
	We next advance toward the entrance and
come to the great, brass door, with fleur de lis
represented upon it. As we enter the chapel
we see to the left the carved stalls and above
the quaint wooden carvings, representing
monks ridiculing their brethren; also the long
rows of flags suspended from the roof, show-
ing the orders of the bath. Nearly in the
centre stands the large tomb of Henry and his
Queen, Elizabeth of York. This superb piece
of workmanship was made by Pietro Torri-
gierno, and cost the modest sum of 1,500
pounds. The tomb is of  black marble, with
figures of gilded copper. Upon the altar in-
side there is a leg of Saint George and a piece

[Column 2]

of the cross. Besides the king and queen,
James I was buried in the vault. Near the
tomb rest the remains of the young Edward
VI. To the right of the entrance is the grave
of the Duke of Cumberland, the hero of Cul-
loden. We saw, with reverential feeling, in
the centre of the eastern chapel the graves of
the good Dean and Lady Stanley.
	Olicer Cromwell and family were buried
near, but at the restoration they were all re-
moved, with the exception of a daughter who
married a Royalist. From thence was hurled
the dead body of the great protector, and
taken, with those of Bradshaw and Ireton, to
Tyburn, and there ignominiously hanged in
chains, while the wicked Charles II was reign-
ing in his stead. But time is righting and
will right all that. "Time, the test of truth,
love, sole philosopher, which never loses
though it doth defer."
	It is a curious fact, worth noting, that in
this vault, as if in scornful mockery, were
buried the Duke of Ormund and illegitimate
children of Charles II; and, in favorable con-
tact to these, the heroic veteran General
Schonberg. To the right of the main chapel
we enter the south aisle, which contains the
monument of Mary Queen of Scots, whose
body was removed from Peterborough cathed-
ral by order of her son James I. The tomb
is a splendid monument. The alabaster effigy
of the unfortunate queen upon it looks very
handsome indeed. There in majestic repose
she lies, with the familiar cap, or bonnet, upon
her head. At the end of the aisle, with suit-
able slabs and inscriptions, are William and
Mary, Charles II, and Prince Rupert.
	Just opposite this place is the north aisle,
which contains the tombs of Queen Elizabeth
and her sister, Bloody Mary. The monument
to Elizabeth, designed by Paultraine and Critz,
is very fine indeed. The effigy represents the
queen as advanced in life, but majestic even in
old age. It is fitting that England's greatest
queen should be thus commemorated. Never
was the country greater or happier than dur-
ing her reign. But we are all aware of the
fact that she had extreme weaknesses as well as
virtues. She was "one day greater than a 
man, and the next less than a woman." Mary
is buried in the same tomb as her sister. Her
funeral was the last Roman Catholic service
held in the abbey, with the exception of one
ordered by Elizabeth to commemorate the
death of Charles V. In those two services the
long war of the English reformation was 
brought to a close. The eastern end of the
aisle is called "innocent's corner," because the
princeses, murdered in the tower, by order of 
Richard III, were brought hither by the direc-
tions of Charles II. Near the entrance to the
aisle, beneath the monument to his patron,
Lord Halifax, lies Addison. His monument,
as we remember, is in the poet's corner.
	What a cycle of history is contained in
Henry VII's chapel alone! There are the
memorials of the thrifty and enterprising
Henry, the short-lived but useful Edward, the
powerful and cruel Mary, the grand Elizabeth,
the unfortunate Mary of Scots, the noble
Cromwell, the dissolute Charles, the bigoted
James, and the noble William.

NORTH TRANSEPT.
	After leaving the chapel of Henry VII we
wended our way to the north transept. It is
directly opposite the poet's corner, and is
devoted to the monuments of statesmen, as the
other section is of poets. A prominent and
pleasing statue is the one to the memory of
Sir Robert Peel, with date, 1850. A states-
man worthy of honor! The service which he
rendered toward the passage of the reform
bill, with other excellent patriotic work, make
this monument of special note. But by far
the most satisfactory monument in this sec-

[Column 3]

tion is that to the great Earl Chatham. This
is one of the unusual instances where every-
thing favorable has combined to make a satis-
factory result. In the first place, the work of
the sculptor is superior, and for once he em-
ployed his power upon a worthy object. It is
by Bacon. The monument is large, being
thirty feet in height, and cost six thousand
pounds. There is a pyramidal shaft, and the
figures of Britannia, Prudence, and Forti-
tude are represented. The slender figure of
the great earl is seen, in a peaceful attitude,
near the top. The monument is located close
to a door, and attracts the eye in an imposing
manner as one enters. There is likewise a
monument to Henry Grattan, the Irish cham-
pion, with date, 1820. The eye is attracted
to the statue of Wilberforce, the Abolitionist,
the man by whose instrumentality the slaves
in Jamaica were emancipated, which act was
the forerunner of  breaking the shackles of the
slaves in the United States.
	[To be continued.]


WOMEN IN JOURNALISM.

	Writing in Harper's Bazar on "Women in
Journalism," Miss Grace W. Soper says:
One of the highest attractions in the pro-
fession to a thoughtful woman is its opportu-
nities for usefulness in putting the stamp of
print upon worthy objects. Even personal
journalism, which cannot wholly escape the
penalty of its trifling character, has a distinct
value in a discriminating use, and many in-
stances could be given of advantages gained
and prosperity due to the personal items of the
woman reporter.
	Almost every newspaper woman has a few
favorite schemes, which she likes to advance
at convenient occasions for the world’s good.
It is known that one makes an especial study
of cooking schools, and helps their introduction
into the public schools by a line now and then;
another has suggested the need of a national,
flower, and receives all communications on the
subject; another has been the first to write in
favor of manual training, and having received
much disapproval and contempt at first, has
written steadily through the first stages of dis-
favor to a time of general interest in the sub-
ject. Great opportunities for helpfulness are
a part of the common lot of women in journal-
ism, showing the golden side of the shield of
large acquaintance. A brilliant woman in
Central New York might point to a galaxy of
stars—social, artistic, and musical—which she
has fixed in the firmament of popular support.
A reporter in the East, engaged in the arduous
and not agreeable task of police reporting, has
been the means of rescuing many degraded
men and women from complete ruin. Many
women on newspapers conduct quiet little em-
ployment bureaus without fees, for the benefit
of the many who turn to them for advice and
help, and all have opportunities for giving
forth through word and deed more than they
may assimilate from books or experience.
It is, indeed, this constant drain upon the
mental and moral resources upon the sympathy
and upon the heart, as well as upon the mind,
that gives to Journalism for women its especial
cause for weariness and discouragement. The
use made of her many opportunities is the test
of the journalist's character, and as in no
other profession is character marked more
quickly in all its different shades, so in none
are there known to be so many and varied
types of development. "All sorts and condi-
tions" of women are shown through the mirror
of the public print. Their number is equalled
by their individuality, so that it is still impossi-
ble to take the typical picture which would
represent the whole in fair and unmistakable
lines. The woman reporter photographed by


Mr. Henry James may possess but one quality
in common with the book reviewer or the edi-
torial writer—the quality of devotion to her
work and conscientious faithfulness in doing
her duty at its best.
	Women in journalism are particularly sen-
sible of the pleasures inherent in a work which
is a means of influence to hundreds or
thousands of people; they are not less aware of
the various difficulties in its path, more or less
acute according to the social and professional
position and the character of the journalist.
The wife of a governor of one of the Eastern
States, meeting a young woman reporter, as
governers' wives and presidents' wives are apt
to do, said to her, with much kindness: "My
dea, I hear that you have just entered upon
journalism as a profession. May I whisper
one little piece of counsel in your ear? Do
not be easily downhearted, and try not to show
sensitiveness. Men object to women as co-
workers on account of their quickness to take
offence at trifles. Show your superiority over
the occasional disappointments of refused con-
tributions, and be of manly courage." The
necessity of giving plain statements of facts
is often a trial to the imaginative woman jour-
nalist, but no field of literature offers a better
means of training in accurate expression than
journalism.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S MASS MEETING IN SAN
PETE.

	According to previous call and appoint-
ment, a large number of the ladies of Manti,
assembled on the 20th of June, 1889, to or-
ganize themselves into a Suffrage Association.
Besides the ladies, a few influential citizens
were present who evinced a warm interest in
the proceedings, although they took no formal
part in them. Audience sang,

     "Guide Us, Oh, Though Great Jehovah."

Mrs. Rebecca Wareham offered prayer.
Audience sang, 

	"Earth With Her Ten Thousand Flowers,"

	Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake City, stated
the object of the meeting to be the organiza-
tion of an association of women of all ages,
for purposes of improving ourselves in matters
literary, formal, social and political; especially
in that or all branches of politics, which
touch on woman's condition and interests in
general, and her state of disfranchisement in
particular.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young of Salt Lake was
chosen temporary chairman, and Mrs. Lucinda
L. Dalton of Manti, temporary secretary.
	The name of San Pete Co., Woman Suffrage
Association was adopted, and the following
named ladies nominated and sustained as 
officers of the permanent organization.
	Mrs. Ellen Jakeman, of Manti, President;
Mrs. Esther S. Anderson of Manti, First
Vice-President; Mrs. Helen Armstrong of
Ephraim,Second Vice-President: Mrs. Tina M.
Erickson, of Mt. Pleasant, Third Vice Presi-
dent; Miss Mary Ann Frantzen, of Spring
City, Fourth Vice-President; Miss Clarrisa
Faux, of Moroni, Fifth Vice-President; Miss
Augusta Swalberg, of Gunnison, Sixth Vice-
President. Mrs. Sarah P. Vorhees, of Manti,
Secretary. Mrs. Lucinda L. Dalton of Manti,
Corresponding Secretary. Mrs. Margaret Kjar
of Manti, Treasurer.
	Executive Committee: Mrs. Catharine Brown
Chairman; Mrs. Belle Reed, Mrs. Margaret
Sloan, Mrs. Mary Luke, Mrs. Sarah P. Rey-
nolds.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells read the Constitution of
the National W. S. A., and it was moved
seconded and carried that the same be adopted
as the Constitution of the San Pete W. S. A.

[Column 2]

	Mrs. Wells read the By-Laws of the Utah
W. S. A., and it was moved, seconded and
carried that the same, with some slight changes
be adopted as the By-Laws of the San Pete
Co., W. S. A.
	It was also moved seconded and carried,
that the San Pete Co., W. S. A., be an auxili-
ary of the Utah W. S. A.
	Mrs. Wells expressed an earnest hope that
this cause will be well supported in San Pete
Co., and that all members and friends will
work together in harmony and order. Re-
counted some of the noble efforts which had
been made by the friends of woman in the
east to prevent the outrageous proceeding of
robbing the women of Utah of the Franchise,
after they had been in peaceable possession for
seventeen years. Opined that so long as men
shall retain their magnificent physicial organi-
zations and proportions, and women their ma-
ternal instincts, there need be no fear that
women will ever take away any of the rights
of men. Said we only need our own on fair
and equal terms. Was satisfied that no less
than ten thousand men in Utah believe in
Equal Suffrage.
	Chairman, Mrs. Young, said the women of
Utah could not be accused of any stain of
wrong-doing in their use of the ballot. They
held, used, and valued that right, for the
good they could do themselves, their sons and 
daughters, and humanity in general. We
hope to regain this inestimable right, and in
some degree help other women to gain it.
	The first regular quarterly meeting was
appointed for Friday, June 28, 1889.
	No further business being presented, a mo-
tion to adjourn was carried, the audience sang
Doxology, and closing prayer was offered by
Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde of Spring City.
		LUCINDA L. DALTON, Sec., protem.


The roses of pleasure seldom last long
enough to adorn the brow of him who plucks 
them, and they are the only roses which do not
return their sweetness after they have lost their
beauty.
	Francis Minor, of the St. Louis, Mo., bar,
has brought out a pamphlet arguing that
women have the right to vote for members of
Congress under the U. S. Constitution. It is
entitled “An Argument in Support of the
Law of Federal Suffrage.”
	The International Congress of Woman’s
Rights, held in France recently, reported the
name of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Honorary
President for America, Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, of Indiana, was present as one of the
delegates from America. Mrs. Belva A.
Lockwood, of Washington was in attendance
and also attended the Peace Congress.


OBITUARY.
	It is our sad duty to chronicle the death of our much
beloved sister, Jane Ricks whose demise took place. July
1st after a lingering Illness of six months duration. Sister
Jane was the wife of Prest. Thos. E. Ricks of Bannock
Stake and was in her 48th year at the time of her death.
Her many friends miss her companionship for she was all
that constitutes a true woman, gentle and kind in her do-
mestic circle, she was all that a fond mother could be.
Being possessed of exceeding great faith caused her to
withstand acute suffering she under-went in order that she
might cleave unto her family as long as possible. Her
parting was as peaceful as though quietly falling asleep; a
few hours previous to breathing her last, she called her
children around her bed side and gave them good counsel
all was done calmly and serenely knowing that the moment
had come for separation. Sister Jane was an exemplary
Latter Day Saint in all things and died as she had ever
lived. She was an active member of the Relief Society
occupying the position of a teacher.
		Your sister in the cause of truth,
								   Ann Rigby.


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS AND NURSING
     Having unusual facilities in the Deseret Hos-
pital for practical instructions in the above, I
will commence a class, September 30th. A
limited number of positions will be available in
the hospital with wages.
     Students can learn and earn at the same time.
Period of Study, six months, consisting of two
terms.
     For further information please communicate
by letter immediately.
Fee for Full Course, $50.00.
Romania B. Pratt, M.D.,
Resident Physican, Deseret Hospital.

Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
----AT----
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS, 	J. V. PARKER,
Gen. Pass. Agt.	Div.	Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail.
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 18.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1889.	No. 6.


CONTENTS.
	Love—Rhoda E. Foster.  Hephzibah—A story.
Maria Mitchell—Ex. Notes and News. Long
Island Party—Lizzie S. Wilcox.  Uncommon
Courage.
	Editorial:—Neither Defeat Or Victory. Edi-
torial Notes A Little Girls Letter—Delta. A
Voice From The Twentieth Ward. One of The
Old Fashioned Mothers. Half A Century. In
Memoriam. Woman Suffrage In Ogden. W. S.
A. Meeting.—Cornelia H. Clayton. Millard Co-
unty, W. S. A. The Suffrage Question.—S
R. S. Report. Y. L. Renunion.—Ann M. E. B
Evans. Cancer Cure.—Sarah Merrill.
	Poetry.—Pioneer Day. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh.
A. Strike.—Selected. When Suffrage Comes.—
Selected.


PIONEER SONG.

Hark, to the pilgrims joyful cry
	They see that rest is here
As down the Canyon’s road they hie
	To the welcome refuge near.

What sought they from afar?
	Not the gold, or silver mine
Not wealth, or fame, or the spoils of war,
	They sought for their faith a shrine.

They had left their childhoods’ home,
	To find on this arid sod.
A place where they may freely roam
	And safely worship God.

Footsore and weary they come
	With none to welcome or cheer
To seek mid those desert wilds a home
	Tho' the prospect looked but drear.

But, to conquer they had come
	Tho' not for glory or fame
Not to the beat of the warlike drum
	But in freedom’s cause they came.

They gazed in awe, and fear  
	On the vast expanse around
Then sang a hymn of sacred cheer
	That stamped it holy ground.

There were men with hoary hair 
	In that devoted band
Who were seeking refuge where
	No tyrant owned the land.

There were women of steadfast eye
	Led here by their love of truth,
There was manhood there, whose hopes sore
		high,
	And the buoyant step of youth,

The mountain peaks loomed high
	Above that sterile land
And the cloudless summer sky
	Looked down on that weary band.

But when the night cloud dark
	Shrouded the landscape o’er
Those exiles like the tired lark
	Nestled down by the Salt Lake’s shore.

At morn they consecrate the ground
	And bless the soil they trod
Then move with freedom’s step around
	The Zion of their God.
				M. A. Y. Greenhalgh.
July 24th, 1889.


[Column 1]
LOVE.

	Love what is it; I sometimes think we do
not know.  The Savior said: “Love the Lord
thy God, with all thy might, mind and

[Column 2]
strength.” What course shall we pursue to
do this.  One thing is to be prayerful, another
to “honor thy father and thy mother;” also a
great many other things.  Sometimes there
are requirements made of us which go dread-
fully against our natural inclinations.  But
the Lord teaches us that sacrifice brings forth
the blessings of heaven; and he has established
a code of laws, by which we are to be governed
in order to return back into his presence.  Just
as we make laws to govern each other in tem-
poral affairs, which we all know are highly
necessary to maintain peace and good order
in a community, and which tend to sustain
and develop each other’s rights.  Now we all
expect a home in the gseat hereafter, or should
do, but when we contemplate that, let us ask
ourselves—what kind of a home do we want?
Do we desire to mingle with those we love in
our eternal home?  Or can we afford to cast
ourselves out of the fold, in order to gratify
some selfish desire.  The Lord wants us to
have much faith, and I sometimes think we
imagine we have, and want others to think
the same, and are very indignant, if they ex-
press themselves in any different way.  The
Lord says: “Show me your faith without your
works, and I will show you my faith by my
works.” Now we love the Lord and desire to
return back into his presence, what is to be
done?
	Out of love for us God sent His Only Be-
gotten Son, to suffer, bleed and die, and he
teaches us that, “no greater love hath man,
than to lay down our his life for his brother.  Are
we willing to lay down our life for brother or
sister?” I fear not, I sometimes think we are
not always willing to even tell the truth when
it would frequently do them so much good;
and perhaps save them much sorrow, besides
frequently helping them to hold and main-
tain their honor.  A thing which I fear is
sometimes very carelessly dealt with; notwith-
standing, the amount of knowledge we all
have, that when our honor is once degraded, it
is much harder to establish than it was to tear
down.  The Lord wants us to love one another,
and in doing this we prove our love for him.
But we must also love ourselves, and in order
to do this, we do not have to be selfish, un-
grateful, or fail to appreciate the blessiugs we
daily receive from our heavenly father, or dis-
regard the accommodations and kindnesses we
receive from our brothers and sisters.  But I
think if we love ourselves properly, or with a
God-like love, we will take a God-like course.
One might say that is far beyond my reach;
but do not think so, the Lord never told a
people to do any thing which they could not
do.  For he has declared that “as thy day thy
strength shall be;” and who ever knew his
word to fail.
	There is a subject which weighs heavily
upon my mind, and that is the course which
some of our beautiful young girls take in mar-
riage.  Some say they marry for love.  Now
let me warn you to be sure you know what
love is; you may think it is no one’s business,
but beware how you cast your lot, for this life
is not too happy at best, but when we bring
sorrow and misery upon ourselves, by making
a heedless, unwise choice, and take an un-
worthy companion, because we think we love
him dearly; will the Lord be any more apt to
justify us in our choice?  Will he hold us
guiltless.  Besides placing ourselves on very
slippery ground, our posterity have to share

[Column 3]
it with us, so they should have some considera-
tion, more especially when we realize that they
are not here to demand their rights, and in a
matter too, that is apt to effect them in this
world and the next, as well as ourselves.  How
much better we wlll feel when called to
account for the deeds done in the body, if our
children can rise up and call us blessed.
	Now girls let me testify to you that matri-
mony is one of the most important steps that
one has to take in a life time, both for our-
selves and our children.  The Lord tells us if
we lack in wisdom let us ask of Him, “who
giveth liberally and upbraideth not.” So let
us be prayerful and inquire of the Lord, and
he has promised to answer our prayers.  But
we must try to be obedient to his laws and
commandments, and then all will be well, for
obedience is better than sacrifice.  But before
closing I wish to testify to you all that I know
we are engaged in a good work when we at-
tend to the requirements of the Gospel, and
I also know when we labor, sacrifice, or suffer
for the love of God, there is joy and peace
poured into our hearts from a heavenly
source.  So let us be earnest in our desire to
do right and try and perfect ourselves so we will
be worthy of the love of our Heavenly
Father. 			RHODA	E. FOSTER.


HEPHZIBAH.
	V.
	Childhood, how passing sweet its radiant hours;
	The loves and friendships of our early youth;
	Enchantment dwelt within its fairy bowers;
	Adorned with germs of purity and truth.

	Morning came, a lovely morn, and Hepsie
unpacked her little trunk and made ready for
the Sabbath for this was Saturday; after that
she wanted to take a walk, and as her mother
had told her to ask Mrs. G’s consent to every-
thing, she asked the lady’s permission. She
spent most of the day in the garden, and Mrs.
G. in addition to her domestic duties, assisted
the Rev. Erasmus in preparing his sermon.
Hephzibah was keen in her perceptions, and
she discovered on her first day at the parson-
age, that Mrs. G. wrote much of the sermon
herself. If she left “the study” for a minute
or two, to attend to domestic affairs, the Rev
Erasmus in dressing gown and slippers,
would open the door of his study, and in his
blandest tone, call “Deborah.”
	The next morning was the Sabbath, and in
a minister's house, especially in New England
there was always a peculiarly, subdued at-
mosphere on Sunday, Mrs. Grovesner had
considerable worry in fixing her husband off
to meeting in time, and she was too busy to
go herself as minister’s wives very often are;
and after all the sermon was left, over which
so much time had been spent. Mrs. G. found
it out when she went to dust her husband’s
study, and arrange his papers for this was part
of her work, after all he had gone, and she
hastily arrayed herself, as became the minis-
ter’s wife, in her very best silk dress and lace
bonnet and hurried up the street towards the
church; at the door she met the deacon, and
slipping the package into his hands she
hastened home again, that her husband's
dinner might be ready for him when he re-
turned:  Poor little Hepsie wondered as one
naturally would what the minister could do
without his wife. She wrote a letter to her


mother, that day according to promise; it was
her first letter, and she was very precise in
making it both neat and correct, and after
telling her mother how unhappy she was
to be so far from home, she told her as a
great secret, that  Mrs. Grovesner she was
sure wrote the sermons for her husband to
preach in the pulpit on Sundays; when the
little letter was finished, she signed her name
with a flourish of her pen underneath as she
had seen her brother do, and folded it neatly;
there were no envelopes in those days, and so
she sealed it with a pretty pink wafer, and
carried it to the post office herself, as though
it was a great treasure.
	Monday was another eventful day for the
child. The principal of the girls department
at the high school was apprised of Hepsie
Hathaway’s coming, and Mrs. Grovesner had
told Hepsie that Miss Elliott was “a most
amiable person.” Hepsie went through the
ordeal of questioning as to her age, residence,
studies and former teachers; and was finally
ushered into a large hall filled with girls, older
and larger than herself. It did not take her
long to get initiated into the ways of the school,
and she was so quick and diligent, that she
excelled in all her classes, and became a general
favorite. The girls depended upon her for
help in mathematics and composition, and she
was so fond of astronomy or the geography of
the heavens, that the young men quite admired
her, and looked upon her as superior to other
girls.
	Though Hepsie was very small of her age,
she was now constantly associated with older
girls, and was sought after by them as com-
panion and friend, and yet they were a very
different type from herself; full of fuu and
nonsense and fond of having a good time—
sometimes perpetrating practical jokes which
were very annoying and Hepsie’s unsophisti-
cated nature; they were mostly girls with “lots
of pin money;” while little Hepsie had none
to spend except as Mrs. Grovesner suggested,
therefore their little friend could not “chub”
with them in buying sweetmeats and dainties;
in fact she cared very little about that sort of
thing, and would rather ramble over the
beautiful hills, and along the pebbly streams,
and linger in the grand, old woods, among the
rocks and moss; listening to the sighing pines,
musing, soliloquizing and imagining the un-
rivaled future, than partake the most tempt-
ing meal they could offer her. The child had
strange presentiments concerning her desting,
which haunted her unmistakably, and which
she would fain have unraveled, if possible,
but as yet it was intangible only a myth.
The cultivated people with whom she was
being brought in daily contact at the minister’s
house, and her constant associations with Mrs.
G. herself, could not fail to develop her rapidly
she was such an impressionable, thoughtful
child. These conditions were good for Heph-
zibah, and modified her idea of life very much
though, child as she was, she saw much that
seemed little in accord with the minister’s
teachings from the pulpit on the Sabbath Day
and much also that her sensitive conscience
disapproved. How keen the perceptions of
children to judge right from wrong, is not
always remembered or recognized, one cannot
be too careful in the example set before
children. Hepsie saw much during her so-
journ at the minister’s home that was never
forgotten; the young, newly-fledged preachers
who “exchanged pulpits” occasionally with
Mr. G. were anxious to convert Hepsie and
wanted her to get a newehart. Poor thing!
she could not comprehend it, and one day she
told Mrs. Grovesner that it was quite a puzzle
to her about this “new heart,” and why did
she need it. Grandpa had thought her good
enough, and that she was tired of being told
she was a sinner, and so on. Mrs. G. asked

[Column 2]
the child how and when she had been so
worried on this subject, and she replied “when-
ever you leave the room for anything, the
moment I am alone with one of the young
ministers, I grow cold all over, because I know
he will inquire if I have had a change of
heart yet.” Mrs. Grovesner was troubled; her
eyes were opened, and from that day Hepsie
was never left alone with any strange minister.
	About this time, a few of the most popular
girls in the school entered into a sort of com-
pact together and they included Hepsie in the
number, they only wanted seven, and no more
were to be admitted. This society had
some restrictions, and a great many privileges
and school-girl like, they were full of en-
thusiasm. Marriage was the principle aim of
the Association, because one of the stipula-
tions was, that as soon as one of them married
she should be excused from the obligations
previously incumbent upon her, and Hepsie
fancied they would all leave her, unless they
should decide to remain single; but this was
not a part of the programme; they decided,
not only to marry, but that each one should
marry a man with a title of eminence, Rev.
Prof., D.D., M.D. or A.M. Poor little Hepsie
heard this and shuddered, she thought of the
Rev. Erasmus, his selfishness, and the many
petty foibles so apparent in his character, and
as she was devotedly attatched to the seven,
she felt bound in honor to speak out, “would
you love a man that was cross, and disagree-
able, and never satisfied, wait upon him, work
for him, plan for his pleasure, though he never
thought you were tired, or sick, or wanted
rest or peace; who always sat in the parlor 
when company came, and talked while his
wife cooked the supper and made
all ready for the comfort of his
distinguished guests as he calls them." All
this and much more came like a crash from
the little one, whom they had never dreamed
could assert herself like that. The girls were
amazed, and so was Hepsie, at her on cour-
age, she broke down then and began to cry as
children do when overwrought, as we all do
when the very fountains of our hearts are
stirred.
She felt like a culprit too, what right had she
to betray family secrets—she loved Mrs. G. for
tho' she had been strict yet she had been dili-
gent and true to her trust, and Hepsie only
knew what her perceptiosn told her. She was
quite vexed with herself for her freedom.
“Don’t cry” said sweet-tempered tender-hearted
Jane.
	“What do you know about love or things of
that kind, why your’e still in short dresses and
pantalettes. Your opinion indeed, fie child, my
brother will be a Rev. some day he’s at Yae
now such a fine fellow all the girls admire him
and any one might thank her lucky stars to
get him and his title”—this was Miss Fay, her
fsther was an Esquire and she was as haughty
as though he had been a Baron. It amounts
to almost the same thing a ’squire in a country
village is held in as high esteem almost as
titled aristocrats in the old world.  Neverthe-
less Miss Fay was not a great favorite, but she
was kind of a leader and she could ill book the
interposition of a little opinionated child like
Hepsie Hathaway. After all she felt in her
heart the child was more than a match for her.
Hepsie did know something about love, albeit
it was only an intuition, and she herself could
not have defined her own delicate sense of the
divine sentiment.
	Unvittingly she had touched a chord in the
heart of each of these young and blooming
maidens, so much older and wiser in the ways
of the world, it was the very outbusrt of
spontaneity.
			[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MARIA MITCHELL.

	The death of this great astronomer occurred
at her home in Lynn, Massacusetts, July 3rd.
For the last two years she had been in failiug
health, but the news of her death was a sur-
prise and shock. Regardless of sex she was
one of the great scientists of the age. She was
a tender, loving friend to the thousands of
girls who had come under her instruction, and 
as she was an outspoken advocate of woman
suffrage, and the firm friend of its leaders, her
loss will be greatly mourned in their ranks. 
The Hartford, Connecticut, Times gives this 
concise account of her life:
	Miss Mitchell was born in Nantucket. She
would have been 71 had she lived till the 1st
of August. Doubtless she had not the astonish-
ing mathematical powers of her English prede-
cessor, Mrs. Somerville, in the exploration of
the starry heavens and their sublime laws.
But she was the world's one great living fe-
male astronomer, and had been, for more than
thirty years. She may have been indebted
for her choice of astronmy as her field, to the
circumstances of her having been early an as-
sistant of her father, a Nantucket school
teacher, in his astronomical studies. However
that  may be, she became greatly interested in
the study, and gave particular attention to
nebulae and comets. For the discovery of a 
comet in 1847 she received a gold medal from
the King of Denmark. Her subsequent work
on the United States coast survey, and on the 
Nautical Almanac, continued for ten years,
when in 1857 she resigned it and went to Eu-
rope, where she visited all the great observa-
tories and made personal acquaintance of lead-
ing European astronomers. Twenty years ago
she received the appointment of astronomical
professor at Vassar; a position which she held,
discharging in an able manner its active duties,
until, two or three years ago, failing health
compelled her to resign. She was a member
of the American Association far the Advance-
ment of Science, and of the American Acad-
emy of Arts and Science, and in fact, was al-
together a remarkable woman. A woman who
can calculate eclipses, test the question of the
parallax of a fixed star, and give us informa-
tion concerning the nebulae, may well be cele-
brated by the advocates of the modern doc-
trine, that women can do some, at least, and
a sublime part, too, of the work of men.---Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Pundita Ramabai is lecturing to crowded
audiences in Bombay on the education of
women.
	Boston University has graduated 478
doctors of medicine, nearly one-half of whom
are women.
	A constitutional convention for New Mexico,
with a view to Statehood, is to be held next
September.
	Louise Imogen Guiney, who is an oarswoman
as well as a poet, has a paper on "Rowing” in
the August Wide Awake.
	The Supreme Court of Michigan has just
confirmed the decision of the lower courts, that
in Michigan women may vote for school
officers.
	Memorial services in honor of Mrs Lucy
Webb Hayes were held last Sunday by the
local W. C. T. U.’s, by the request of Miss
Francis E. Willard.
	John G. Whittier writes: “I earnestly hope
the new-created States of the West will lay
their foundations on the rock of justice and
equality, and thus secure to their people the
full rights of citizenship irrespective of sex or
color.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A STRIKE.

	Once upon an evening dreary,
	As I pondered sad and weary
O'er the basket with the mending from the wash
		the day before;
	As I thought of countless stitches,
	To be placed in little breeches,
Rose my heart rebellious in me, as it oft had done
		before,
At the fate which did condemn me when my daily
		task was o'er,
	To that basket evermore.

	John, without a sign or motion,
	Read no thought of the commotion,
		Which within me rankled sore.
	"He," thought I, "when day is ended,
	Has no stockings to be mended,
	Has no babies to be tended,
		He can sit and read and snore;
	He can sit and read and rest him:
		Must I work thus evermore?"
	And my heart, rebellious, answered,
	"Nevermore; no, nevermore."

		T though I am but a woman,
	Every nerve within is human,
Aching, throbbing, overworked, mind and bod
		sick and sore,
	I will strike when day is ended,
	Though the stockings are not mended,
Though my course can't be defended.  Safe be-
		hind the closet door
	Goes the basket with the mending, and I'll
		haunted be no more:
	In the daylight shall be crowded all the work
		that I will do:
	When the evening lamps are lighted, I will
		read the papers too.
							SELECTED.


WHEN SUFFRAGE COMES.
When suffrage comes, what shall your lordships say?
	Is it to spoil the mother's holy charm,
To take the maiden's lovely guise away,
	To make ward rowdies out of womanhood,
And do the gentler sex a lasting harm,
	And none a good?

When suffrage comes, is it to cast a blight
	On home delight and pretty household play,
To lose a blessing looking for a right,
	When wives disown the tributary place,
Nor the old rule of custody obey—
	So losing grace?

What myriad fretful spirits still there are,
	What chafing still in many a trammelled lot,
What family that knows no petty jar,
	No murmur of a half-imprisoned will,
"Which—take resentment playfully, or not—
	Is restless still?

What constant evils plod their heavy course?
	What lives are linked, yet foreign in their sphere?
There is divorce ere marriage seeks divorce;
	Fair souls rebel that may not justly share
In answering justice when the world appears
	To go unfair.

If suffrage comes; if lives have common cause,
	And not apart as now their ways pursue?
Let times be changed; let shallow judgment pause—
	We yet may own, with pleasure in the claim,
So dear a home and hearth we never knew
	Ere suffrage came!

When suffrage comes, who questions in the court—
	How come these seekers for a woman's crown?
They come with souls of truth, with minds of thought,
	They come with righteous zeal to spread the light;
They come whose duties done in fair renown
	Have earned their right.
									Selected.


LONG ISLAND PARTY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Some time ago we read in the Deseret News
of a Long Island party in Salt Lake City.
We have lately had the pleasure of attending
a Long Island party in Long Island.. There
is a branch of the Church organized at Ocean-
ville L. I. presided over by Bro. Elbert Soper.
Bro. Albaroni H. Woolley is a missionary
whose field of labor at present lies in this
branch.  For some time a beach party has
been contemplated by the members of the
branch here: and Bro. Woolley, with commen-
dable loyalty and love for his mountain home
suggested the Twenty-fourth of July,—Utah's
Pioneer day, for the event.  Accordingly, a
merry boatfull started at eight o'clock a. m. of
that day, to float out with high tide and enjoy
a sail on the smooth waters of the Bay.
	Salt Lake City was represented by Messrs.
E. H. Petitt; A. H, Woolley and wife, C. F.
Wilcox wife and children. The sailboat is the
property of Bro. Ira Petitt, and his son E. H.
has guided that same vessel many and many
a time over those waters, the depths and shal-
lows and dangers thereof which he knew "like
a book."  We were glad to have such a
captain.  A clam bake on the sandy beach
was a part of the program.  After leaving
Petitt's place we sailed across to Point Lookout
where hotel and cottages have lately been
erected by the Long Beach Company:  There
the women and children landed while the men
returned to the boat to go in search of clams.
These are found in shallow places and taken
from the mud by means of a rake. A good
sized basketfull was thus secured in a short
time.  While the men were thus prosily en-
gaged the women were delighting in the luxury
of "gathering up the shells from the seashore."
And the children!  How they all rejoiced in
the wide stretch of sand, so white and clean
and no restraint put upon the blessed darlings
for fear of soiling frocks.  How  with their
tiny shovels the excavated wells, and heaped
up mountains which were diminished almost as
soon as erected.  It seemed too bad to be
called from such pleasures, but hungry time
was coming, and preparations must be made
for lunch.  Only those whose appetites have at
some time been thus whetted by salt breezes
and not destroyed by illness can tell what fine
flavors that lunch possessed.  After lunch
more wandering on the sand viewing seaweed,
jelly fish, etc. tossed up by the restless sea.
	Bathing in the surf was enjoyed by some of
the older ones, and the children were pleased
by the great waves washing upon their bare
feet. Later on the clams were to be roasted,
but alas! for mortal plans.  We were called to
the boat, as a young woman was suffering much
from sudden illness.  We proceeded to our land-
ing and she was taken to a neighboring house,
still enduring much pain. Upon being ad-
ministered to by the Elders she was immedi-
ately relieved.
	She had been baptized but a few days before,
and rejoiced in this added testimony. Those
present were also joyful at this manifestation
of the goodness of our Father, and felt the
day to be a better one than if the original
plan had been fulfilled.
					Lizzie S. Wilcox.


[Column 1]
﻿UNCOMMON COURAGE.
	During the last Congress a bill was passed
providing for the disestablishment of the
Mormon Church. All its assetts in excess of
$50,000 not used exclusively for religious
purposes were to be delivered into the hands
of a receiver, its affairs wound up and its
property was to escheat to the United States.
Under the provisions of this bill the receiver
obtained possession of farm lands, coal lands,
[Column 2]
gas stock, telegraph stock, droves of cattle,
flocks of sheep and other property, worth in
in all about $900,000, and today the Mormon
Church is paying to the United States Govern-
ment rent for the use of its former possessions.
It is claimed that the Mormom Church is
dangerous, But is it any more closely united,
does it have greater weight in politics than the
Church of Rome? Has it ever taken such a
decided political stand as the Methodist Church
took at its recent conference in New York,
where the platform of the prohibition party
was enthusiastically endorsed? The Mormon
doctrine sanctioning polygamy has been the
principal source of trouble. Congress very
properly undertook to root out this practice,
and Senator Edmunds’ bill in 1882 met with
satisfactory success. But Congress was not
content to stop there. After enacting the most
stringent laws against polygamy, it passed the
confiscation bill, which can be regarded only
as a direct attack upon a religious corporation.
This measure is of a piece with the treatment
to which the Mormons have been subjected
throughout their history. In 1844, officers of
Illinois arrested two men and confined them in
jail at Carthage. A mob collected, broke open
the doors of the jail, seized the prisoners and
murdered them. People said then, and some
still assert, that justice was meted out to
Joseph Smith and his brother. But is lynch
law likely to secure the justice which Ameri-
can citizens wish to see enforced? On the
banks of the Mississippi the Mormons built a
flourishing city. But the people of Illinois
did not want such neighbors, and so for three
days they bombarded Nauvoo. In the open-
ing of winter, men, women and children were
driven from their homes, compelled to forsake
their possessions and flee they knew not
whither. We glorify our persecuted Pilgrim
Fathers, who planted amid the snows and rocks
of a wilderness the seeds of free government
and their chosen religion. Is their case
essentially unlike that of the Mormons?
Literally hunted from State to State, they
too, resolved to found a home where they
might enjoy religious freedom. Through an
unknown desert, over the Rocky Mountains,
encompassed by dangers, they pushed their
way until they reached the Salt Lake basin.
In subsequent years the persecutors of the
Puritans did not withold from the settlers of
New England their due meed of praise; and
all men who believe in the progress of the
world, though condemning to the lowest in-
ferno the Mormon creed, should laud the
principle that guided both Puritan and
Mormon in their wanderings. When Roger
Williams preached religious freedom in Massa-
chusetts they drove him from the colony, but
they permitted him to enjoy his religious
opinions in his new home. The Church of
Utah was haunded from place to place till it
found a refuge in the Western desert, and the
descendents of the New England Puritans are
not satisfied to allow it to rest even there.
While a dollar remains to the Church of
Mormons the carpetbag politicians of Utah
will clamor for it, and Congress, in granting it,
will imagine that it is rooting out polygamy.
The cause of the Mormon church is the cause
of every church in the Territories. If the
United States Government can confiscate the
property of one religious corporation, what is
to prevent it from doing the same to any other
denomination at any time it shall please?
When the profligate John Wilkes championed
the liberty of the press and advocated parlia-
mentary reform he became a hero. The
Mormon Church of Utah represents today as
sacred a principle as John Wilkes or Roger
Williams ever stood for; and Congress in com-
bating this principle is not checking the in-
fluences of Mormonism.”


44			WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,			-			Editor,
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months; 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-		-		AUGUST 15, 1889.


NEITHER DEFEAT OR VICTORY.

	The Peoples Party have not suffered any defeat
in the recent election, neither have the Liberals
gained anything of a victory; though they made
a great ado and noise and held "high revelry” so
clamorous as to be distressing One would won-
der if those young men with stentorian lungs ever
thought of the injury they were doing to the sick
the nervous, and the aged. Besides what was
accomplished by it? Nothing at all unless it was
the gratification of a few with vitiated tastes who
delight in a species of barbarism frightening
women and children, wakening them from peace-
ful sleep to a perfect pandemonium
	These "Liberals” have not done themselves
proud, nor honored their party, by yelling and
hooting and making night hideous.

	“As when in tumults rise the ignoble crowd,
	Mad are their motions, and their tounges are loud."

	It seemed only noise that they wanted to make,
they were so hilarious and full of exultation, that
what the crowd might have done if they had
carried the City, as they vainly tried to make
people believe, against their own knowledge of
facts, it is impossible to conceive.
	As for some of their orators, they incited the
maddening crowd no doubt, as in other days and
times now long past, when it was said,—

					“That talking knave
	Consumes his time in speeches to the rabble,
	And sows sedition up and down the city.
	Picking up discontented fools, belying
	The senators and government; destroying
	Faith among honest men, and praising knaves."

	If the Liberals think to gain any of the votes of
the Peoples Party by any such "hurrah” as that
of Monday night the 5th of August, they will be
sadly mistaken, and they will have less votes in-
stead of more for all the carousing they have
done. There is an old saying, "Don’t crow until
you are out of the woods, "which may prove
applicable to the Liberals.
	The Peoples Party are strong and it is hoped
will be vigilant; and we entertain no fears
of a victory for the Liberals in Feburary and
most confidently believe the People’s Party
will carry the election if honest means are em-
ployed "Taxation without representation is tyr-
anny,’ and those who are tax payers, of
whatever paety, should have fair representation;
but justice, equity, and honesty, shoulb be the
standards, and not political trickery.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Mrs Zina D. H. Young, General President of
the Relief Society left the city on Wednesday


August 7. on a tour through Beaver, Panguitch,
and Millard Stakes. Aunt Zina remained over
night at Springville on her way, to visit her
brother Oliver Huntington who resides there, and
resumed her journey the following day August 8
having been joined by Mrs Minerva W. Snow. 
These sisters proceeded direct to Milford, where
they were met by a carriage from Beaver, and 
held meeting Friday Aug. 9, at Minersville, and
afterwards meeting on the way at Greenville 
and Adamsville, arriving at Beaver, Saturday
night where they expected to remain about three
days, and from there go to Panguitch.
	Sister M. Isabella Horne one of the leading
sisters of Zion and President of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Stake and who also holds
other important positions among the women of Zion, 
is paying a visit to her daughter Mrs. Nora Spen-
cer in Paris, Bear Lake County, Idaho; she is accom-
panied by her husband Elder Jos. Horne and other
members of the family, all hoping to find a cooler
climate, although Sister Horne will doubtless ac-
cording to her regular custom when away or when
at home be holding meetings, talking to the sisters,
encouraging and interesting them in their duties
and labors in the organizations of the Relief 
Society, Young Ladies and Primary. Mrs. Martha
H. Tingey is with her mother and as she is First
Counselor in the General Presidency of the Y. L.
M. I. A. she will likely meet with the Young
Ladies and give them the benefit of her wise
counsel and experience in matters pertaining to
their best interests and advancement. 
	Before going to press, Sister Horne returned
from her trip to Bear Lake, and informs us that 
she held meetings in Paris, both branches of the
Relief Society coming together on Thursday,
the 25th of July, and on Friday, went to Mont-
pelie- with Sisters Lindsay and Sheppard, offi-
cers of that Stake, and held meeting there at two
o'clock. Saturday morning went over to Ben-
nington and met with the sisters at ten o'clock.
As it was the haying season there were not as 
many brethren who could attend, although those
who did attend were much pleased as usual,
with the spirit of the meetings and the instruc-
tions given. The Relief Society and other or-
ganizations in the Stake are in a prosperous con-
dition. The minutes of the meeting were very
good. Sister Horne found her daughter, Mrs.
Horne found her daughter, Mrs. Geo. Spencer
and family all well. Her two daughters who
accompanied her, Mrs. M. H. Tingey and Mrs.
Clara E. James have enjoyed the trip and visit
with friends, very much.


A LITTLE GIRL’S LETTER.

DEAR EDITOR:
     Thinking perhaps a few lines from this little place
will be acceptable, I take the liberty to write you
of a pleasant surprise and farewell party which
was given on July 17th to our highly esteemed
Bro. Hans M. Hansen, who departed on the 20th
on a mission to his native land, Norway.  He is
first Counselor to our Bishop.
     The Bishop and Bro Hansen went out for a ride,
and to call on some friends, during the afternoon.
At three o'clock the people of the Fremont, and
Loa Wards, gathered at the Fremont School
house, where tables were spread with the good
things of the earth.  At four P. M. the Bishop
came back, and seeing the crowd assembled drove
up to the School house, when several of the men
took Bro. Hansen from the buggy and carried
him into the house.  After his surprise and the
excitement of the moment was over, the choir
sang, "Adieu my dear brethren adieu."  Prayer
was then offered, and all partook of the boun-
teous repast. 
     The evening was spent in dancing intermingled


with songs, recitations etc, which had been pre-
pared by the people for the occasion.
	At a little after midnight benediction was pro-
nounced, all feeling to join in thanking our
Heavenly Father for His blessings, and asking
His divine care and blessings on our brother and
his family during his absence.
	Tickets for the party were isued at 50cts. each,
the proceeds of which with contributions from the
people made up a purse of over $80,00 to assis
Bro. Hansen. 
	The Lord is blessing this portion of His little
flock with peace and prosperity.
	I am an interested reader of your very valuable
little paper, and ever pray for the welfare of Zion.
									DELTA.
Fremont, July, 1889.


A VOICE FROM THE TWENTIETH
			WARD.
	Being a lover of flowers and shrubs I strolled
around to see some of the lovely places last eve-
ning, but instead of the many-hued flowers and
fragrant climbers, roses, etc. one sees scorched
grass, parched flowers and dying trees. In pass-
ing one of our city councilor’s I found some of his
dying as well as mine, and yet the City Council
are accused and abused every day; but like a
wise man he was making the best of the situation,
and had instructed his gardener to perforate some
oil cans about an inch from the bottom, which if
kept filled with water would keep the roots moist
and perhaps save the plants. I believe the Lord
helps those that help themselves. There has been
considerable talk this Summer about priority of
City creek water which all amounts to nothing.
	My husband owns and has cultivated a bench
lot for twenty-four years or more, but can’t re-
member the summer that irragation alone would
keep it green and fertile; many times we have
carried water from the ditch for an hour at a time
to the lower part of the garden because the
stream was so low and besides, many summers we
have been in the habit of saving soap-suds and
scrubbing water to carry to our trees. But says
one, with soapy water you will surely kill them but
we have proven it to be a good fertilizer, not only
large trees, but I give it to my climbers and house
plants occasionally, it has never killed one yet, but
makes them green and strong, but I presume our
leading Florist John Reading will not approve of
that statement; but I can pick many bouquets all
winter from my plants; so you see Mrs. Wells
there are many ways to help the growth of the
beautiful.
	Our peaceful ward and playground was invaded
by our would be tyrants last night; how can they
call themselves “Liberals” when they would make
serfs and slaves of us, they would increase our
taxes so much that a poor man would not be able
to maintain his family; the next visit they pay us
we would be more pleased if they would let our
old Schoolhouse alone. It is a dear old land-
mark of the Twentieth ward, how many times we
have taken our pictures and decorations and some-
times furniture to make it attractive for our social
entertainments. It makes the tears start when I
think of the good old social time.
	Some of us mothers would send a lounge over
covered with a nice soft Buffalo robe for our
babies to sleep on while we joined in the merry
dance, oh how well I remember the first leap-year
party we had there, an old friend of mine chose
Pres. Young and Kimball for her patners in a
Scotch reel, what a pleasant evening we spent.
How many of the dear old “stand-bys” in their
clean sunbonnets would partake of the Sacrament
on the Sabbath, week after week in that same
dear, old school house. How many pleasant
Relief Society meetings, we have held these when


we would knit sow and vuilt in the days of Ma
Smoot and Sister Sharp.  How many of ro dear
friends have we taken from there to the Silent City
it seems to me I could fill a book of the pleasant
times we have had in that old School house, it will
never seem old to us.
	We never asked our "Liberal" friends to help
build it, we built by donation, and I can very
well remember the gentleman that was heaping
abuse upon it last night teaching school there
for his living but I can assure him it has been
very much improved since that time, and recent
donations have made it very comfortable for many
purposes, I can assure them last nights talk won't
help their cause in this ward, for many of the
young people were not in the habit of listening to
such talk, besides hearing their parents Malighd.
I don't think many will follow them: as for free
schools we will leave that to the future.
	The rains and Mr. Webbs cold wave we will be
thankfull for when the Lord sends them, we are
n his hands and will abide his time, we came
here have worked hard to make our homes and
build our School houses through the blessings of
our Father in heaven we have done it, many of us
walked half the journey from Florence to Salt
Lake City, and carried our babes and if the Lord
permits us to live, we intend to stay, and if our
trees die we will plant more.  The down trodden
women of Utah have learned to do all kinds of
work, lest I tire you I will call myself one of Bro.
Naisbitts,
						Old Fashioned Mothers.
August 3rd 1889.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HALF A CENTURY.
	The reception room at the Deseret Hospital was
invaded on Thursday evening August 8th by a
company of brethren and sisters, during the ab-
sence of the Dr. Romania B. Pratt who had been
sent away to hunt up an unknown patient.  The
nurses and help were in the secret and had dec-
orated the rooms with flowers and vines and made
all needful preparations.  A very artistic cake in
pyramids and ornamented like a bride’s cake was
on the table the work of her daughter in law Mrs.
P. P. Pratt.
     When the Dr. arrived she was very much sur-
prised to find her friends seated and chatting
away merrily.  She was warmly greeted and con-
gratulated on having reached the half century so
active buoyant fresh, and blooming a matrons
Speeches were made, songs sung and everything
passed off joyously.  Several of those who spoke
alluded to her as being the pioneer woman in the
profession in Utah, having been the first lady
graduate here, and stimulating others to follow
her noble example.  Dr. Pratt has made herself a
name and won laurels in her profession by her
own individual exertions and undaunted heroism
in the study of medicine and surgery.  Dr. E. S.
Barney read an address replete with funny
things and yet prophetic of the future.  The ad-
dress written and read  by Mrs. Lillie Freezs in a
clear voice and most happy manner expressed the
sentiments of those who had assembled in honor
of the anniversary.
     Mrs. Freeze in behalf of a few of Dr. Pratt’s
friends presented her with a very large photo-
graph album.

     It is with feelings of sincere gratitude and
pleasure that I arise to congratulate my very dear
friend upon another anniversary of her birthday—
this one of unusual interest having completed seven
times seven and a Jubilee, as we behold her radiant
and blooming face, one is led to believe that Old
Father time has shown partiality and claimed her
as one of his especial pets.
     When His hand has rested upon your brow and
tresses it was not to plow furrows, or streak with
silver, each stroke has seemed a tender caress.

[column 2]
But there is a change an utter change that comes
upon the heart.
     In you we recognize many gifts and graces that
glorify the character of woman.  We admire your
talents, we honor your undaunted courage and
perseverance in toiling alone up the rugged hill of
science, opening the path to a higher and broader
field of usefulness for your sex.  We appreciate
your womanly virtues and we love you as a friend.
It was said of Napoleon that he could win battles
but Josephine had achieved the greater success
for she could win hearts; the presence of so many
appreciative friends assembled here to-night to
honor your Jubilee proves that you have
learned the art known to the charming.  Empress
of France.
     I believe sincerely that those whom you have
admitted to the inner temple of your life—those
who know you best, love you most.
     As a memento of this delightful occasion I take
pleasure in presenting to you, in behalf of the
company—this album.  Representing as it does a
mirror in which you may behold the faces of your
friends, and we trust that you may enjoy many a
silent visit with them when life’s duties have
turned our footsteps into varied paths.  And we
also entertain the hope that the memory of the
friendship that has prompted us to make this
simple offering, may be as a broken fountain of
perfume shedding its fragrance adown the stream
of life until it merges into the great sea of Eternity,
in the Celestial kingdom of our Father, where we
may meet again and renew and perfect our associa-
tions begun on earth,
     Respectfully inscribed to Dr. Romania B. Pratt on her
50th anniversary.

'Tis not by years, and years alone
That we should count times restless flight.
For now, though fifty years have flown
We see our friend so young to-night,
Life’s cares and pains that come to all
And leave stern marks upon the brow,
Are not here found, no dark’ning pall
Enshrouding her with sad'ning woe,

Experience has left behind
Its rare and radiant traces,
Enriching heart, and soul, and mind, 
Thus adding loveliest graces,
Of sweetest sympathy and love,
Of wisdom, and humility,
Reliance on our God above
In faith, with hope and charity.

Her powers too of usefulness
Have been enhanced by patient toil.
She finds in truth the blessedness
Of "pouring on the waters oil"—
Securing peace, relieving pain;
And making many hearts rejoice.
Imparting hope and faith, again
With music in her soothing voice.

Then may her usefulness extend
Throughout all time.  Life has no close!
For her our fervent prayers ascend
As full of incense, as the rose
Is full of fragrance sweet and rare.
And may each year in onward flight
Increasing blessings to her spare!
And as the morning, make the night.
	Your loving friend,
				ELLIS R. SHIPP.

     The birthday party was a perfect success,
not only in speeches and gifts and songs but in
the most delicious refreshments.  The Exponent
offers most fervent congratulations wishing the
genial and intellectual Dr. long life, and prosperity
peace and happiness.


[column 1]

		       ﻿IN MEMORIAM.
     Died July 28th at her residence in St. George
Utah, Mrs. Sarah Anterberry Church, widow of
Haden W. Church.  Sister Church was born on

[column 2]
the 4th of May, 1824 in Dallas Co. Alabama. She
was baptized and confirmed in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints by Elder John
Brown.
     She was subsequently married to Haden W.
Church in her native State. She and her husband
shortly after proceeded to Nauvoo, where they
arrived about the year 1845 not long before the
exodus from that place. They were among the
foremost of the company when the Saints moved
west. When the call of the United States govern-
ment for the “Mormons” to furnish five hundred
men to assist in the war with Mexico, Bro. Church
was among the number to enlist, leaving his wife
with her first babe to make her way as best she
could to the Valley of Salt Lake, where she
arrived in September 1847.
     Bro. and Sister Church were for many years
permanent residents of the 14th ward in this City
Sister Church was a member and active worker in
the Relief Society in an early day and was an
intimate friend of Sister Phebe Woodruff and
Ma Smoot. Sister Church was also an intimate
friend of our beloved “Sister Eliza.”
     At the General Conference in October 1861.
Bro. Church and his family were called to South-
ern Utah, and taking up their line of march again
in a wagon they were among the very first to settle
on the present site of St. George, and Sister
Church has resided there ever since up to the time
of her demise. She was a most exemplary dili-
gent and faithful Latter-Day Saint.  In the first
Ward of St. George she was First Counselor in
the Relief Society to the President, Sister Hannah
E. Crosby and they were daily associated in their
labors of love among the people of the ward and
were like two sisters in very deed. Sister Crosby
was in Salt Lake City at the time of the decease
of her dear friend and Counselor.
     In addition to Sister Church’s labors in her
home, attending to household duties, she has
been a regular worker in the St. George Temple
from the first of its opening, and was a great
blessing and comfort to all who were favored with
her administration. Sister Church was also a
nurse among the sisters and will be greatly missed
by them in times of trial and sorrow. She was
called for by night and by day to go here and
there where her help was needed, and never failed
to respond if it was possible for her to go.
     She was always cheerful, full of faith and her
energy of character was remarkable. She pos-
sessed those hospitable and benevolent traits of
character so conspicuous in the Southern people,
in an eminent degree, was always self denying
and forgot her own troubles in ministering to
others. Her memory will ever be preserved fresh
and green in the hearts of the people among
whom she lived and labored so faithfully in the
Latter-day work. All honor to her noble woman-
hood. A faithful and devoted wife, a wise, tender
and judicious mother. “Her children,” will as-
suredly “rise up and call her blessed.” And all
Israel will praise her name and hold it in honor-
able remembrance.
     She leaves one daughter and four sons one of
them now on a mission to the Southern States,
and twenty-eight grand children who will mourn
her loss deeply. It is said by some of her friends
that she grieved so much when her son was im-
prisoned for his fidelity to principle, that she never
afterwards recovered herself, and it is thought to-
have been the primal cause of the illness of
which she died. There have been many such
martyrs, mothers and wives since the crusade be
gan against this people, and their names are no
doubt inscribed oh the martyr’s roll.
     Sister Church has gone to meet her husband,
Sisters Woodruff,Smoot, Sister Eliza, the Prophet
Joseph, and many others, her death was
no doubt a glorious victory to her, and her un-
wavering faith and diligence in keeping the com-
mandments of God will secure to her the promise


she held sacred of a part in the First Resurrection
of the just. We sincerely sympathize with the
bereaved ones, and may our Heavenly Father
soften this affliction to them by imparting his Holy
Spirit in rich abundance, to soothe their grief, and
her children follow her illustrious example that
they may meet her again in the Celestial World
where there will be no more parting forevermore.
			“No aching hearts are there,
	No tear dimmed eye, no form by sickness wasted,
	No cheek grown pale through penury or care;
	No spirits crushed beneath the woes they bear
					bliss untasted." 
			Er hath not heard the song
	Of rapturous praise within that shining portal,
	No heart of man hath dreamed what joys belong,
	To that redeemed and happy blood-washed throng,
			All glorious and immortal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE AT OGDEN.

	The monthly meeting of the Woman’s Suffrage
Association of Ogden convened at the County
Court House, July 1st 1889.
	Prest. E. Y. Standford called the assembly to 
order.	
	Prayer by the chaplain Mrs. Odell.
	The minutes of the previous meeting were read
and approved.
	Prof. L.D. Edwards rendered the solo, “Man
the Life Boat,” in excellent style.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was next introduced to the
assembly. The lady ably handled that important
subject, “Woman’s Rights.”
	At the close of her highly interesting lecture, a
hearty vote of thanks was tendered Mrs. Wells.
	Prof. Edwards favored the audience with an
instrumental solo, performed with his usual skill	
	Mr. Scott Anderson next delivered a short ad-
dress.
	Meeting adjourned for one month. A full at-
tendance at the next meeting is earnestly solicited
	The Suffrage Association held an interesting
meeting Friday afternoon, August 2, in the court-
house. Mrs. Hilliard delivered an interesting ad-
dress on woman’s work, her influence in the world
for good, and the result of her labors through these
organizations in suppressing intemperance and its
attendant evils. Five minute speeches were made
by Mrs. Pingree, Williams, Careswell, Miss Can-
field and others. These ladies esteemed it their
duty to enter their protest against the increase of
saloons, the establishment of gambling dens,
variety shows and houses of ill-fame, and by a
petition would remonstrate against these evils and
ask the City officials of Ogden to enforce the laws
to crush them out of existence.
	The Misses McGaw delighted the audience in
their rendition of a song and duet, when the meet-
ing adjourned for one month.
							Aggie Herrick.
					Assistant Sec’y.

	Mrs. Wells address was published in the
Woman’s Exponent of July 15.


[Column 1]
W. S. A. Meeting.
	The Utah W. S. A. held its regular meeting
in the Social Hall on Friday July 19, Vice
Pres. Mrs. Nellie R. Webber in the chair.  On
the platform at her side the Ch. of the Ex.
Com. Mrs Ann E. Groosbeck, The Secretary
Mrs. C. H. Horne and the Treasurer Miss
Margie Dwyer were also present, Miss V. Neb-
eker furnished music on the organ, and a
prayer was offered by the Chaplain Dr. E. S.
Barney.  Minutes of foumer meeting were
read by the Secretary and also the revised By
Laws were read and voted upon, names of new
members presented and some micellaneous busi-
ness transacted.  A letter was read by the

[Column 2]
Secretary from the President Mrs. Margaret
Caine tendering her resignation, which was
formally accepted and a motion was made and
seconded that Mrs. L. D. Alder be acting
President the remainder of the year.
	The Chairman then called upon Mrs. S. M.
Kimball who had just recently returned from
the East to address the audience.
	Mrs. Kimball made some telling remarks
on the suffrage question, and then took up
the subject of dress reform. She had visited
the rooms of Annie Jenness Miller in New
York, and had examined into the details of
the matter somewhat deeply, and her remarks
were interesting and the subject as she pre-
sented it worthy the careful attention and in-
vestigation of all concerned in the future
welfare and well-being of mankind.
		MRS. E. B. WELLS.
		ADDRESS TO U. W. S. A.
	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen.—
Last night in pondering over the subject of an
address to this assembly which I had been re-
quested to make to-day, these words came
forcibly to my mind:

		I live for those who love me
		For those who know me true,
		For the heaven that smiles above me
		And the good that I can do.

	Otherwise in the midst of my multiplicity of
duties I should have given it up. If my ex-
perience or my views are of any benefit to those
less acquainted with the franchise, or who
have not had the same opportunities for ob-
taining information on these points, then I am
willing to do my best to help—hoping that I
may do some little grain of good.
	I do not, and never could understand why
sensible women with mature ideas should pro-
test against woman’s suffrage; the ballot for
women as well as men seems to me to be en-
tirely consistent with the principles of justice
and equity, and I cannot comprehend why
men need the franchise more than women;
those who believe that all men support and
protect all women, might say so, but every
woman that has kept her eyes open in this
world knows that this is not the case.
	There are to be sure honorable exceptions,
but it is not the general rule—think of it ye
who may! Women have quite as much at
stake in all matters pertaining to “life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness" as men, and
they belong to the people, that is in our country
it has been so declared. The preamble of the
constitution says, “We the people of the
United States in order to form a more perfect
union, establish justice, ensure domestic tran-
quility, provide for the common defense, pro-
mote the general welfare, and secure the bless-
ings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity,
do ordain and establish this constitution for
the United States of America.” Certainly
women were a part and included in this great
body politic. They desire justice and are the
ones who do the most to promote domestic
tranquility, and when it says “for ourselves
and our posterity,” who is more interested than
the mother? In the days when these words
were written there is not the least doubt that
the women did their full share of the work,
and helped carry the burdens. We who have
been pioneers in colonizing can appreciate
something of their duties and the cares that must
necessarily have fallen upon these early settlers
of America.
	Are men really so much more capable than
their mothers, or wives, or sisters? That is a
question still open to discussion, and many
learned men and women have argued it in print
under the title of “sex in brain". and as far as
co-education is concerned where young men
and young women have been trained in
the same pursuits and studies, and by the
same methods, the girls quite frequently

[Column 3]
carry off the honors; which was notably the
case recently in San Francisco—as you who
read the papers must know.
	Article I. of the amendment to the con-
stitution says: “The right of the people to
peacably assemble and petition for a redress
of grievances, etc.” That right is one that
I think has never been denied to women,
though quite often the redress sought has not
been obtained. In this women are recognized
as a part of the people. But as we often say
in regard to the scriptnres, so it is in politics.
Man means woman in certain places, but when
the divines and law-givers want it to mean
man alone—they so decide. And so they con-
tinue to deal out to women, as they feel in-
clined, a little here and a little there, or none
at all as the case may be, place and power in
public life.
	I know some advocates of woman suffrage
say, if men will not give us our just rights—
equal privileges,we will not accept a part; we
want the whole loaf and not crumbs, but the
principle a little at a time is certainly better
than none at all—and when any new revolu-
tion in affairs comes gradually the people are
better prepared to take hold of it. Here is a
pretty poetical illustration:

	Little by little the torrent said
	As it swept along its narrow bed,
		Chafing in wrath and pride,
	Little by little and day by day,
	And with every wave it bore away
	A grain of sand from the banks which lay
		Like granite walls on either side

Whereupon you will readily, see I an in favor
of taking what we can get, let it be ever so
grudgingly given. The great point to be
gained now, is to prepare women for the polit-
ical privileges that are bound to come, if they
do come slowly.
	We often say the mothers need it, and that
is true, there are I believe more arguments in
favor of mothers than any other class, though
I would not state it positively; but there are
women and I have instances one or two,
especially in my mind, who are not mothers,
who are and have been public benefactors, and
I think how much more they could have ac-
complished if they had been privileged with
the political and I might almost say social
rights of men. They have been deprived of
motherhood such as has been vouchsafed to
others, perhaps for the greater good they have
accomplished as mothers of peoples.
	There is much that might be said definitely
on this subject, but there is one other of vital
importance I would like to touch, and that is
the mother’s right to her child—it is said of
one woman that when she heard that in the
State of Rhode Island—the father could ap-
point a guardian for his child and deprive the
mother of all right to it if he so chose, she
said: “Why do not all the women of America
cry aloud against this terrible injustice to
mothers?” Many of the states have had their
laws more or less modified in this respect, since
women began agitating equal rights, but much
injustice in this regard still exists.
	Next on the programme was a song very
sweetly rendered by Miss E. Morehead.
	ROMANIA B. PRATT M. D..
Some reasons for women studying politics.
	“Politics is the science of government, that
part of ethics which has to do with the regu-
lation and government of a nation or state.
The preservation of its safety, peace and pros-
perity, the defense of its existence and rights
against foreign control or conquest, the aug-
mentation of its strength and resources, and
the protection of its citizens in their rights,
with the perservation and improvement of their


[Column 1]
﻿morals.” The potency and pith of every line
n the above quotation find full application in
he home circle, the miniature type of all or-
ganizations, where women preside conjointly
with their husbands or should do so. If
women can be educated in and have a voice in
the government of the city, county, state or
territory in which they reside they would be a
mighty factor in restraining the rise and
flourishing of the myriads of dens of temp-
tation which now bristle from every corner of
all great cities, alluring the youthful and
curious mind into paths which lead to lives
not only pernicious to the welfare, peace and
prosperity of the community, but add to the
burdens of the moral and law-abiding citizens,
by forcing them to contribute of their hard
earnings in taxes to support prisons and jails,
in which the lawless are herded in idleness
usually, because useless and dangerous if at
liberty. Women I believe would be swift to
use every power vested in them, that would
preserve their sons and daughters in the paths
of truth and honor, and establish them in lives
of usefulness and intelligence. Their watch
care and solicitude over their home circles
would stimulate them to extra diligence to get
time to cast their votes, or lift their voices for
honest men and women as officers and against
all measures which endangered the morals of
their families. Where is the science of govern-
ment more required and capable of eternal and
far reaching good than in the home circle where
the seeds of justice, morality and law abiding
instincts are planted in young hearts yet at
the mothers knee? There would be better
home government, parents recognizing and
respecting the rights of their children and the
children the authority and instruction of
parents and of each other. The study of the
code of equal rights will benefit every one
whether they ever become voters or not. The
study of politics is a means of development
and therefore it is important that women pur-
sue it, and get a good understanding of it in
all its phases and make obsolete the favorite
objection of some men to women in politics,
that she does not know enough. Victor
Hugo has said the 19th century is the century
of women. “Revolutions go not backward but
forward,” and those of progress are growing
more rapid continually and cutting a wider
swath in the field of musty traditions and
deep worn ruts of thought and habit that have
so long environed women within the narrowest
limits possible. The spirit of the century set
its seal in the foreheads of a few brave souls of
womanly form, whose visions and realizing
sense of equity and justicew as of such strength,
brilliance and fixedness of purpose as to sink
into as deep insignificance all contemptuous
epithets as “strong minded, soured old maid
dissappointed in love” etc. as the moon pales be-
fore the brightness of the noonday sun. The
pioneers of all innovations have been strong or
never would the walls of traditions and old
customs have been broken down and swept
away, and a smooth path beaten for the feet of
weaker ones to follow. When great ends are
to be achieved, a persistence and perseverance
of purpose without a shadow of turning is the
only means of gaining victory. What is this
spirit of the 19th century, that is inspiring
men as well as women with a determined spirit
of resistance. Which says we are all equally the
children of the God of this earth and He
created it for us all to enjoy. Is it not the in-
nate spirit of Justice. Every one born
in the United States whose parents are citizens,
is a citizen by right of birth, but a birth does
not constitute or make the person a voter. To
vote is a privilege and not a right which has
been clearly explained to us in a previous
session and is regulated by the legislature of
each state governed by certain specifications
defined in the constitution of the state or or-
[Column 2]
ganic law of the territory. In the original
thirteen states sex was not a bar to voting but
gradually each state inserted “male” as a
qualification of a voter until now Vermont is
the only state which has not this word in the
suffrage clause of its organic law; but it has
inserted it in its election laws. Monopolies
are rising hydra-headed all over the land and
making it almost impossible for the poor to
live. Many thousand women earn their own
living and many earn it for their families also
doing the same work as men with only half
the wages.  Many women are equally capable
of filling a number of lucrative offices which
now are only eligible to men, where their work
is not heavy and would seem in the fitness of
things more suitable to women than men.
Why not let capacity and ability be the test of
eligibility and not sex? Power is held in re-
spect and when women hold the ballot they
will command more deference then, in virtue
of that power than they do now through the
mere sentiment of chivalry. It is affirmed by
the great workers in suffrage that the greatest
opposition to the cause is the apathy and in-
difference of women themselves. With some
it is from physical exhaustion, because they
have too much to do domestically to have
scarcely an hour a day to read or think of any
thing outside of the four walls of their own
houses and also in the fact that woman’s work
in a family is never done. Yet if the subject
can be so presented to them as to cause a
realization of its benefits to them and others,
an interest will be created and some time will
be found and utilized in investigating the
subject which will result in positive good, that
is now spent less usefully in moments of neces-
sary relaxation. But there is a large class who
have both the leisure, education and ability,
who from sheer apathy and indifference lan-
guidly say they have all the rights they wish
and have no desire to have a voice in politics.
The worst besetting sin of the world is selfish-
ness and will be the very last to loosen its
fangs from the human soul as it passes the
“Gates ajar.” If this great army of fortunate
women would use a few of their leisure hours
in reflecting upon the sad and despairing lives
of thousands of their unfortunate sisterhood,
girls of the factory whose lives are days of toil
for a mere pittance, sewing women with wages
scarcely adequate to keep the wolf from the
door, the drunkards wives who not only have
poverty and toil to contend with, but unkind-
ness and even blows, and numberless other con-
ditions of women too numerous to mention now,
and could be brought to realize that it is in
their power and would be philanthropic and
benevolent to work for the amelioration of this
unchristian condition of affairs, the fear of
being called strong-minded and masculine
would vanish and every man’s wife would in-
sist on knowing why shackles should remain
upon her sex when even the negro is freed, and
why barriers and bans are planted in her path
of progress as a citizen, when she is fully en-
titled to and should be protected by the strong
arm of the law, with equal rights to life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness with her
brother. It does not follow as a natural
sequence if women possess the full franchise
that she must or will be elected or accept every
office in the gift of the people. This can
safely be trusted to her sense of propriety and
the good judgment of the people. Let us as
an association seek diligently to inform our-
selves on all matters of government, trying
with the simpler forms as the Municipal, then
County, Territorial and State and the United
States. This does not imply, we should devote
our whole time exclusively to them to the
neglect of our home or business duties, but to
take hold of the subject systematically and at the
beginning and follow it up slowly but surely.
We can then understand better what are our
[Column 3]
rights, and the best manner of petitioning for
them. Much hard and earnest work has been
fruitless, and valuable time lost by basing the
arguments in favor of certain legislature on
debatable premises, for instance the 16th
amendment to the constitution of the U. S.
Those unfavorble to woman suffrage contend-
ing it would be unconstitutional and impossible
while those in favor and apparently with good
logic arguing it as proper and feasible.
	Assertions are not proof, and railing against
and berating masculinity in general and going
to the other extreme of lauding women far
above men is all a waste of time and force. In
a nutshell our duties as suffragists are to in-
form ourselves and instruct each other in  the
science of government, to interest all our
friends in the movement, to convert our fathers,
brothers and husbands to the fact that we can
understand and wield an intelligent power in
politics, and still preside wisely and gracefully
at home, and that until woman’s voice is equally
incorporated in the vox populi that it is not vox
Dei.
	On motion of Mrs. Dougall a vote of thanks
was tendered the ladies, who had so ably
assisted the programme committee. Adjourned
for three months.
		Cornelia H. Clayton. Secretary,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MILLARD COUNTY W. S. A.

	Meetings of the Millard W. S. A. have been
held in Meadow and Kanosh, Mrs. M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh, presiding.  Addresses were de-
livered by the President, and Vice President
Mrs. D. Olsen, Mrs. Gates, of Scipio, Mrs.
Thompson, &c.  Many of the sisters en-
rolled their names, and promised their sup-
port to the cause of woman's freedom.  Meet-
ings will shortly be held at Holden, Scipio,
Leamington, Oak Creek and Deseret, when,
doubtless, the members' roll will be largely in-
creased, so that the W. S. A. of Millard
County will compare favorably with the other
counties.						M. A. Y. G.


THE SUFFRAGE QUESTION.

	I have read with great satisfaction and pride
the doings of the different, W. S. A. which are
being organized in the different Connties.  It
truly argues a very commendable spirit
amongst the women of Utah and serves to
show that knowing their rights, have been un-
justly torn from them they dare strive to
regain them, and will defend their position
against all opposition		.  I felt proud of
the speeches made by the young ladies on the
occasion of their organization, showing talent,
combined with good practical common
sense.—
	The progress of the Womans Suffrage
Movement is an interesting topic.  This
question has served to bring to the point, a
great amount of talent—and deep thought—,
which would otherwise have lain in obscurity,
and the persons themselves would not have been
aware of what they were capable of.  (Thus
accomplishing a double purpose).  So true it
is that every important event that transpires,
and which the mass of the people are interested
in, helps to develop hidden talent, that would
otherwise dwarf or dwindle away for lack of
active exercise.—
	Now here in this sweltering region of Ari-
zona.  We are not exercised very much at the
present time, as to who makes the laws, or who
runs the machinery.  About all the majority
of us are capable of, is to sit in the shade of 
their own or neighbors’ fig tree, and eat the
fruit of their vines and exercise the Palm
leaf, in the vain hope of catching a cool
breeze.  We cannot do much but sit and see


the rest struggle for those inherent rights
which every true friend of humanity would
willingly labor for.
	The mothers of the nation, should certainly
take an interest in the laws that govern them,
and if allowed to vote would sustain good
wholesome laws administered by just, upright
men who are above bribery and corruption
of every kind.  Now, it is not the Offices that
the women are asking for at present but the
Officers, they want their choice.  They are
pleading for what rightly belongs to them, and
I firmly beleive that the time is not far distant
when their rights and privileges will work
along naturally.  But it is well to keep the,
subject a brewing.  In the meantime the
women of Utah should improve their oppor-
tunities, cultivate energy and self-reliance for
without these we cannot hope to accomplish
anything, and be united in the grand work
which is before them, study the laws of their
country and get themselves posted on the
true science of government.  that they may
labor intelligently in the cause.  It would be
the height of folly to think we could go to the
top of the ladder the first leap but step by
step we will climb until the uppermost round
is gained.  Onward and upward should be our
motto, and trust in God and the success of all
women to equal rights and privileges will be
sure.  God speed the day.
		Yours in the cause of right.
								S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

	    THURBER, PIUTE COUNTY.

	On Friday, June 28th, the Stake President,
Sister Elizabeth Bean with her Counselor
Thirza Thurber, also Brother George Bean
visited our settlement, held meeting here at
ten a. m.  Opened by singing, "Welcome
best of all good meetings.  Prayer by Geo.
W. Stringam, singing, "The towers of Zion
soon shall rise." Sister Thurber was the first
speaker, she gave us many good instructions
on various subjects, exhorting us to be faith-
ful in our duties, careful mothers in all our
acts, showing good examples to the young
people; said she never went to meeting but she
was benefitted by it; we should be punctual in
attendance; recommended short meetings and
short sermons and to take a good spirit with us
and we would have a good meeting.  We should
improve our minds by reading good books
especially church works, sermons and so on
said she felt well in her labors, prayed God to
bless all in the name of Jesus.
	Our Stake President, Sister E. Bean thought
the small attendance at meeting was due to
the people being out on their ranches dairying
etc. and after transacting business in appoint-
ing a grain committee counseled the Sisters to
pray for wisdom and be wise, advising as many
as could to take the EXPONENT as it was full
of good instructions; if we were in trouble to
pray in secret and make God our confident
and draw near unto him and he would draw
near unto us.  Brother Bean also gave good
instructions on the storing of grain; advised
mothers to be careful of the children for the
powers of evil are abroad.  Brother Stringam
had been highly edified knew the spirit of God
was with us hoped we would remember the
instructions we had heard.  Brother Mansfield
knew the Relief Society formed an important
part in the Church, prayed God to bless us in
our labors.  Counselors M. H. Bullard and
Eliza G. C. Brinkahoff made some closing
remarks short but to the point.  Closed by
singing.  Benediction by Matthew W. Mansfield.
			SARAH C. MEEKS, President.
			BETSEY S. GOODWIN, Secretary.


Y. L. REUNION.

	Report of the reunion meeting of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Union Ward held June 17th,1889,
commencing at two p. m. Meeting opened
by singing, “All nature invites, etc." Prayer
by Bishop I. Phillips. Singing, “Improve
the shining moments,” etc. After which the
minutes of the last two meetings were read
and approved; roll called giving credit of four
officers and thirty-five members.
	Programme as follows: reading of the
manuscript paper by Lizzie Walker, it con-
tained some very interesting and instructive
contributions from the members of the associa-
tion; a letter from Sister M. A. Ball, was also
read by Lizzie Walker; song, Martha R.
Brady and Martha E. Cole; correspondence,
Laura Denney and Ann M. E. B. Evans;
organ solo, Annie Stone; recitation, Mary
Anderson; essay, M. A. Smart; select reading,
Emily Oborn; President Sarah Buxton then
spoke a short time. Song, Annie Montier;
recitation, Emma M. Burgan; recitation, Sarah
A. Brady.
	The speakers were Bishop I. Phillips, Coun-
selor M. H. Brady, John A. Barrett and
Brother Middleton. President Sarah Buxton
made a few closing remarks. Benediction by
Counselor M. H. Brady.
	Refreshments were next in order, including
strawberries and ice cream were then passed
around.
			ANN M. E. B. EVANS, Sec.


Mrs. Florence Howe Hall and Mrs. Maud
Howe Elliott have undertaken to write an
account of the life and education of their
father’s deaf, dumb and blind pupil, the late
Laura D. Bridgman. They will be glad to
receive any letters, papers, etc., relating to the
subject. Mrs. Hall's address is Scotch Plains,
N. J., and Mrs. Elliott’s, Newport, R. I.—Ex.
	As the WOMANS JOURNAL goes to press,
the monument to the Pilgrims is receiving its
dedication at Plymouth, Mass., with elaborate
ceremonies. But the best way to honor the
forefathers and foremothers would be to carry
out to their logical conclusion the fundamental
principles of a righteous commonwealth, and
to enfranchise that half of the population who
are still taxed without representation and gov-
erned without consent.—Ex. Aug 3, 1889.
	Mrs. Zerelda McCoy and other women are
circulating the following pledge among the
voters of Washington Territory-
	Whereas, The right to representation in the
government is a cardinal principle of American
Republicanism, and whereas the men of Wash-
ington Territory have on three separate oc-
casions enfranchised all citizens without dis-
crimination on account of sex; therefore
	Resolved, That we, the undersigned electors,
will refuse to vote for the ratification of the
new State Constitution, unless it contains a
provision conferring suffrage upon women
citizens on equal terms with men.


[Column 1]	
	CANCER CURE.

Dear Exponent,
	Thinking it would be interesting to your numerous read-
ers, I write a sketch of my experience with a cancer. I
was taken with shooting pains in my left breast, in a few
days I thought it was cancer. It proved to be a rose
cancer, I procured Cranberries, and had them pounded
into a poultice, which I applied twice a day. I sent for the
Elders, who administered to me and blessed me and
promised me I should get well by continuing the poultcs.
I had great faith in the ordinances. After the first application
I felt no more shooting pains, they all came to the s urfac
in pustule, in six weeks a raw place as large as a dime was
formed, around that came a blue spot as large as a half
[Column 2]
dollar. I continued the Cranberries and nothing else, it
commenced getting smaller untill it drawed all out in
pustule and white threads like spool cotton.
	The wound was entirely healed inside of three months.
During the time I was under the influence of the cancer I
passed my 70th birthday.
	I would mention that I at first drank a decoction made
of burdock and sourdock or yellowdock, with a very little
unslaked lime added, but this should be used with the
advice of those acquainted with its nature, and with the ut-
most caution.
							SARAH MERRILL.
		Brigham City,
July 23rd 1889.

UNION
PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS,	J. V.	PARKER,
Gen. Pass. Agt.	Div. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short  notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 18. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1889. 	No. 7.


CONTENTS. 
	Hephzibah—A Story. Phelps Centennial—S.
M. Kimball. Homespun Talks to Mothers—
Homespun.
	EDITORIAL:—The Burnt City. Editorial Notes.
On the Way—Z. D. H. Young. The Cause of 
Mirage. A False Step—Mattie W.
	Leaves from my Journal—M. J. Tanner. R. S. 
Report—Lousia Jones. The Young Woman's 
Journal. Westminster Abbey—J. C. Kittredge.
All Around the House—Courrier Journal. The
Training of Children—Phrenological Journal.
	POETRY—Woman—E. R. S. Lines—Lu Dal-
ton. The Land of Rest—Selected. Recolections
of the Past—Selected
	Obituaries.


WOMAN.
Is there a mind of origin divine
Who has never at some special time
In life, a grand, a fair ideal formed
Of woman, since when first she Adam charmed?

Ah, what great volumes does the word express
The one word woman! e’en without the dress
Of adjectives, or glowing terms of praise,
Or eloquence which poets oft engage.
	
Our ideal represents the graces!
She towers in the most exalted places,
Or hovering as an angel in the lowest depths
Of sorrow, poverty, or even sin, her love is felt.

We see her standing firm with eye intent
Upon an object sought, with will unbent
To vacillating schemes, with fortitude
Enduring all, unmoved from duties, load.

Associated with even the thought
Of Woman is Beauty! and therewith wrought
Like fewest flowers in wreath entwined
Are all the rarer gifts of heart and mind.

The central flower divinely white
Is Chastity! so pure it greets the sight,
And drooping modesty, so true and rare,
Her charms enchance, and make all traits seem fair.

With love as constant as the ocean’s sigh
And soothing sympathies and moistening eye,
With Faith, Hope, Charity! combined
With gentle voice, and every act refined.
	
But now we see her in her highest sphere
Home’s holy sacred altar! Ah, tis here		
Her virtues shine far more resplendent
And her sublime devotion e’en transcendent.

The wife so true, so faithful to the one she loves,
Unfailing in the duty that she owes
To him, and to her offspring, no other
Duty can exceed the band of wife and mother.
								E. R. S.


LINES.
Addressed to Sister Elizabeth Casto of Manti.

God bless thee, sister, pressing on thy way
With double burden on thy shoulders laid;
A sentinel thou standest night and day,
With human weakness on thy Savior stayed;
Thou  knowest He is full of hope and strength,
As well as love and mercy, truth and grace;
And thou hast learned to grasp His hand at length
And walk in light outshining from His face.


Thy cares and sorrows, many though they be,
Thy burdens, great and heavy to be borne,
Bring not a frown upon thy forehead free
And not a murmur to thy lips is known.
Thy steadfast heart, by faith made strong and brave,
Accepts thy lot and upward looks to Him
Whose arm extends the trustful soul to save,
Whose loving kindness never groweth dim.

Oh, blessings on thy head with silver crowned,
The queenly head of one who walks in light,
And sheds a heavenly atmosphere around,
As radiated from a jewel bright.
A mother thou in Israel, and they
Who grow around thee yet shall gladly rise
To bless thee on thy holy, heavenward way,
And scan thy life with reverential eyes.

Oh, blessings on thy lovely, patient hands
That minister in daily works of love.
As constantly as time’s slow falling sands;
And to thy loved one very angels prove;
That, also, filled with gifts eternal, fall
Upon the heads of Zion’s daughters, come
From far and near, in answer to the call
Of that dear Shepherd leading Israel home.

Oh blessings on thy busy, willing feet
Which go and come at duty's stern behest,
And never falter though 'mid cold or heat,
When errands of sweet love are made their guest.
And rich reward awaits them in the day
When in the clouds thy Savior shall descend
With all the sanctified, for in the way
Those feet shall fly to meet thy Lord and Friend.

And blessings on thy tender, faithful heart
That ever felt for all who weep and mourn,
That on this earth hath borne a faithful part,
And by thy trust in God hath been upborne.
He loveth thee, and hath inscribed thy name
In living light within His Book of Life.
How fade all earthly gain, all earthly fame,
Before this heavenly gift Eternal Life.
						    LU. DALTON.
Manti, July 19th 1889.


[Column 1]
HEPHZIBAH
        VI.
	The sobbing, moaning, murmuring sea
	    Brought to her heart a sadness, a distress;
	That seem’d prophetic of her destiny,
	    O'er-shadowing her future happiness.

    After Hepsie had spoken so much like an
oracle the girls seemed to pay greater deference
to her opinion on all matters under discussion
in their private "club," and the child was more
than ever surprised.  Jane who had been so
sympathetic at the first announcement of
Hepsie's description of the life of "ministers'
wives," took her under her especial protection
as it were, and as the other girls held Miss
Jane in high esteem, it gave "the little one,"
some prestige.  Miss Jane W. was the youngest
daughter of a very wealthy man, who in addi-
tion to the title of Colonel—was a Squire too
in his native town and a representative to the
Legislature in the City of Boston;  and these
imaginative schoolgirls fancied Boston the
nearest place to heaven. So Miss Jane who
was very unpretentious in her way and never
had an opinion to give, was nevertheless an in-
fluential friend.
    It afterwards transpired that in matters per-
taining to their beaux the girls always con-
sulted Hepsie, and Miss Ray with all her ar-
rogance was quite confidential with "the girl in
pantalettes;" telling her much of her prefer-

[Column 2]
ences and roguerries and always binding her to
secrecy.  All the girls came confidentially to
Hepsie, perhaps because she was so childish,
and they felt they must tell some one, as girls
do when they begin "to fall in love," and even
women are not so much better in this respect.
Hepsie was rather shy of giving opinions after
her first outbreak, but she was intrusted with
many secrets, and as she had none of her own
to give, or to keep,they were not at all burden-
some.  It was another charter of experience
for her; she learned to be wise, for had she not
been very cautious, serious trouble might have
arisen between these romantic school-girls, who
kept up such flirtations for pastime.  The girls
trusted her implicitly and hearing from all
sides, she was able to make such suggestions
as seemed wonderful to them, not knowing how
well "the little one" was posted.
    Everything went on about the same,for some
time, at the school, and at the parsonage.  As
Hepsie advanced in her studies and developed
in other ways correspondingly, Mrs. Grovesner
opened her heart more and more to her, and
confided to her keeping many things that to
one quick to discern, and intuitive by nature
were like new revelations day by day.  Hepsie
began to think any condition preferable to be-
ing the wife of a village clergyman, with con-
stant burdens laid upon her to bear thanklessly,
though this position had already been proposed
as the most appropriate for one like her.  The
husband always to be considered,  the wife
seldom if ever.  In her heart she resolved never
to marry a minister.  Still nothing could have
been better for a child so peculiarly organized,
than the mental and moral strength given to
her highest and best aspirations, through the
intimate association with this cultivated, re-
fined and accomplished woman, who had also
the time to devote to her training.  It counter-
balanced in a great degree the excessive in-
dulgence of the old Major, and in later years
long after Mrs. Grovesner had been laid in the
silent tomb, Hepsie had cause to remember
with gratitude her wise teachings and instruc-
tions, and had it not been for the balance of
character thus attained she might have grown
morbidly disconsolate, under the accumula-
tion of sorrows that for a time hung over her
devoted head.
    Hepsie studied so hard and was withal so
delicate that Mrs. H. decided to give her the
benefit of the sea air at vacation, and indeed
some change was "absoulutely necessary," as
Mrs. Grovesner had informed her mother, and
to take her home would only have been to  call
up old memories, that it was really thought
had died out, so engrossed did the child appear
to be in the present.  Once having made up
her mind, Mrs. H. though she could ill afford
to spare the means, was yet firmly determined
upon making the journey; and Mrs. Grovesner
gave  Hepsie special instruction as to her
"manners;"  feeling anxious that Mrs.  H.
should be pleased with her discipline, as well
as having an ambition that the little girl
should be perfect in her deportment on her
own account, for she loved the child, and had
already predicted a bright career for her  little
favorite.  Mrs. G. undertook all preparations
in the way of dress, which was very little how-
ever, yet to Hepsie it  was quite an exciting
affair, as she had never before been  to a dress-
maker's establishment, and  it was about  as
trying as her first day at the high school.  She
went through it all like one in a dream, and


when she came home was so bewildered, she
could not have told whether the dresses she
had been measured for, were green, purple,
red or blue.
	The summer vacation came and Mrs. Hatha-
way did not keep Hepsie waiting long,but a day
or two after school closed she made her appear-
ance at the parsonage ready for the journey.
Poor little Hepsie, her pent-up emotions were
too much for her, and instead of kissing and
embracing her mother in the regular way she
fainted in her arms.  It was quite a scene, but
both the ladies were undemonstrative, and so
the affair was passed over with but little com-
ment.  Hepsie went to bed early after the ex-
citement, as they were to start in good time
the following morning; and indeed in the Rev.
Erasmus Grovesner's house, every one kept
goo hours.  Hepsie was told daily, that
“Early to bed and early to rise,” was a habit
that must be cultivated, and she knew well it
was a regular custom in New England homes;
but some way it did not suit her, she was erratic
in her habits and tastes, and was very unwilling
to submit to the severe rules of life laid down
for her guidance.  It would scarcely do to tell
how she passed the hours before retiring after
being sent up to bed, during the time she was
under the careful scrutiny of Mrs. G., but
suffice to say, she seldom went to bed without
an hour or two of rehearsal either in reading or
reciting.  She was also given to scribbling, and
child as she was, she had already written
“verses;” though they were securely hidden
away in her trunk and she felt too sensitive
to submit them to the eye of any one, not even
Mrs. Grovesner, and as for her own mother, she
stood too much in awe of her, even to think of
doing such a thing.
	The two friends so long separated had much
to say to each other that night for many events
had transpired since they last met, but the
conversation soon turned upon Hepsie and
everything else was waived.  The child’s future
was as it were analyzed beforehand, but with
all their far-sightedness, they did not discern
the realities that fairly crowded upon her
within a very few years.
	The morning was a fair one, and when the
lumbering old stage drove up, Hepsie felt a
great sob rise in her throat almost choking her;
she could not speak to her dear friend; a pre-
sentiment that she was parting from her for-
ever came over her, and she went out of the
quaint, old house silent as death.  The good-
bye’s were hurried, for the coachman was im-
patient and they were soon on their way.
They passed through some charming scenery,
and village after village,each one prettier than
the other, and as Mrs. H. was familiar with
the places, she gave Hepsie interesting descrip-
tions, so the time passed swiftly away.  Night
was coming on and Mrs. H. told Hepsie they
would stay at a friend's house in B. as she did
not like “putting up at a tavern.”
	It happened that the house where they spent
the night, was another of those old-fashioned
ones, just to Hepsie’s liking; and tired as she
was she took notice of the quaint, odd furni-
ture and crockery ware, and it was all
engraven upon her memory.  It was her first
“out,” for the other journey had been to school
and she was in too much sorrow then at the
loss of her grandpa, to appreciate either scenery
or architecture.  Hepsie was elated at the idea
of traveling, and seeing fresh sights; there had
been so much sameness in her school life, and
she had such passionate longings for “the far
away or the far-off.”
	The next day they arrived at their destina-
tion and found all in readiness for their com-
ing.  It was not a bit like what Hepsie had
anticipated, and she was sorely disappointed
over it, but when she had rested a little, and
her mother took her to the seashore, she was
enchanted; her joy knew no bounds, her spirits
[Column Two]
were so exuberant that she was scarcely able
to control her emotions; and when she saw the
ladies and gentlemen day after day promenad-
ing leisurely along the beach, she wondered
how they could keep so quiet and self-con-
tained.	
	The ocean had a peculiar effect upon her;
she could not have described it, but it was like
a fascination or a spell, and awakened poetic
emotions that had never been called forth in
her regular school-life; in fact it had been the
special aim of her tutors and friends, to keep
her under control; here was an expression or a
sympathy with her emotional nature.  The
murmur of the sobbing sea answered to some
tender chord that quivered in her soul, and
the vibration was electrical in its effect.
Sauntering on the beach in the twilight she
often felt that in the uncertain future the
ocean would in some way, she could not com-
prehend now, be associated with her life-history;
and so indeed it proved. Not from any ac-
quaintance formed there, however, for she was
still too young for “affairs of the heart,” if in-
deed her mother had not been her daily escort,
but there was little danger of young men wish-
ing to show the slightest preference, while the
girls’ mothers were on the alert.  However the
sea shore is said to be the very place for love-
making and it does indeed seem fraught with
all the sublimely tender and sympathetic in
the nature and in the heart of humanity.
Hepsie however had love affairs, serious ones
too, at a very tender age; and therefore the
patient reader, who perchance thinks this very
tame and prosy will find ere long, “a genuine
love story,” decidedly pathetic, and by no
means uninteresting.
			[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S   EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		﻿PHELPS CENTENNIAL.

ADDRESS BY MRS. S. M. KIMBALL, OF SALT
			LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Kindred Friends and Fellow Citizens.
	On this centennial occasion, we assemble
with hearts throbbing with sympathy, to honor
the memory of our ancestors, the pioneers of
Phelps, and the defenders of our national flag.
	As I tread this, to me, sacred soil, I gaze in
retrospect on scenes of childhood.  I see my
great-grandfather, Elisha Granger, he leans
upon his staff, bowed with the weight of many
years of earthly pilgrimage.  He died in the
home of my grandfather, Pierce Granger.
	I remember the home with its large kitchen
fire-place, with back-log and fore-stick, and be-
fore the fire suspended a revolving sparerib of
savory smell.  I remember the crane with its
S shaped hooks, on which were hung the tea
kettle and iron pot, and on the coals in the
spacious chimney corner bake-kettle and skillet
were preparing their contributions for table
supplies.  Of the persons present, I only re-
member the face of my grandfather. My last
remembrance of him is, in a log school house,
in Sodus,  worshiping at the cross of Christ,
and trying to lead sinners to repentance.
	Earlier than my day, an event transpired of
which I am requested to speak. "Nature's forces,
God's voice is ever prompting progressive souls
to march forward and occupy new fields which
lead on to physical, moral, intellectual and
spiritual achievement.  One progressive step
ever paves the way for another."
	Adam, after the garden was prepared and
beautified, sent a dispatch for Eve, she came,
and amid sorrow and gladness they planted
their posterity on earth's virgin soil.
	"The branches ran over the wall."  Our
forefathers in frail barks traversed the mighty
deep, and if our foremothers did not accom-
pany them, they followed, to this, to them
[column 2]
new world, they planted colonies amid great
difficulties on New England's shore.
	Some of New Englands sons, among them
my grandfather, Pierce Granger, impelled by
the same progressive spirit, pressed their way
onward through what was then the western
wilds, to what is now proudly termed the Em-
pire State.
	As the pioneer fathers made their uncertain
and many times perilous way, they thought-
fully and carefully marked the trees that their
track might be followed.  I am told that after
the rough log cabin had been constructed,  my
grandfather, after the fashion of mother Eve,
left the home of rest and plenty, to follow her
earthly lord through the dark shadowed wood-
land.  Hills, rocks and rivers obstructed the
unbroken pathway.  Poisonous serpents and
ferocious beasts added terror to the journey, as
the slow ox-team made its laborious way by
the sunlight.  But the darker picture is the
night scene. The weary oxen must be unyoked
from the wood-shod sledge, and as the
darkness gathers around and the gloom
deepens, the pilgrim woman tries to regulate
the beatings of her agitated heart. The wolves
begin to howl, the woman in the anguish of her
loneliness, and with a sense of the perilous con-
dition, prays that the God of love and power,
will protect her and hers. The howling wolves
seem to be continually increasing in numbers
and to come nearer and more near, none but
the pioneers realize the tedious lingering hours
of such experiences, nor yet the heartfelt in-
sense of praise that ascends as the daylight ap-
pears.
	The pioneer women of Phelps, trusting in
God, and such skill as the untutored Aborig-
inies could afford, met the responsibilities of
motherhood and made it possible that you and
I might have existence in these earthly taber-
nacles.  The record of such heroism is preserved
in the archives of heaven.  The true pioneer
woman has an intuitive sense of the future, and
she uncomplainingly endures such hardships,
privations and self-denials, as her pathway may
bring to her.  She says, "Let the result of my
pilgrimage redown to the good of posterity,
and to thee, father and mother, God, be  the
glory given."

		"In the heavens are parents single,
			No, the thought makes reason stare,
		Truth is reason, truth eternal,
			Tells me I've a mother there."

	Of the memorial monument, precious,  be-
cause of the affection which prompted its erec-
tion.  The pioneers take special note, and the
account will be found on the credit side of the
great ledger.
	The picture presented by the grand proces-
sion is sublime and awe inspiring
	As the hearts of the children are this day 
turned lovingly to the parents, so the hearts of
the parents are lovingly turned to the children,
in their spirit bodies they are present with  us,
and the smile of their approbation gladens our
hearts.
	The remembrance of this centennial celebra-
tion, its greetings and reminiscences will be re-
called by us, and the report will be remem-
bered by our children for ages to come.
	We can best honor the memory of our
pioneer progenitors, by exploring and opening
further fields of usefulness, and being diligent
in the cultivation thereof.
	Let us ever remember that our eternal in-
terests are identified with those that have gone
before, and that they cannot be made perfect
without us, neither can we be made perfect
without them. In closing, we bless the memory
of our pioneer fathers and mothers, and ask the
citizens of beloved Phelps to accept grateful
thanks.
	June 17, 1889.


WOMAN'S ﻿EXPONENT.


THE LAND OF REST.
"Where the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary
	are at rest."
		Where is that land of love?
		Oh! mother, tell me where
		The wicked cease from troubling,
		And where no weary are?
		
		Mother my heart is faint,
		I'm longing to be there;
		The cares of life are pressing,
		Oh! mother, tell me where?
		
		Cease, cease, my child; there is no spot,
		That mortals know, where care is not;
		But sin and sorrow both are found, 
		On earth's most consecrated ground.

		And shall I hope in vain, 
		For climes of beauty rare
		Where pain and trouble never come,
		And where no weary are.

		No, not in vain my precious one, 
		The blessed Savior whispers come.
		Have faith in Him; then thou'lt be blest.
		He gives the weary spirit rest.

		Yet not to man has He e'er given
		To know the spot, which we call heaven;
		Be holy; Jesus dwelleth there,
		No trouble comes, no weary are.
									Selected.


RECOLLECTIONS OF THE PAST.
	Sometimes my fancy wanders back
	Adown my life's long trodden track,
	And distant scenes of long ago,
	When my young heart was all aglow,
	Come back as beautiful and bright
	As when at first they gave delight.
	
	Indulging in my waking dream,
	I linger by the crystal stream,
	And watch the pretty speckled trout
	Bask in the sun, or frisk about;
	Perhaps would dip my rod with care, 
	Some unsuspecting trout to snare.

	The old green lane—I love it yet— 
	Where daisy, primrose, violet
	Beneath the hedgerows richly bloom
	And scent the air with sweet perfume,
	While robin sings his sweetest song
	To cheer me as I pass along.

	O, happy were those summer days,
	And beautiful the sunny braes
	Where we, loved brother, often strayed,
	Or loitered in the sylvan shade.
	Anon would seek a change of scene
	And race and frolic on the green.

	In autumn we ran off together
	And wandered through the blooming heather—
	The honey-scented heather, where
	We knew the ripe bilberries were.
	How grand the heather-bells around !
	How sweet the berries which we found !

	The village school—I see it still,
	Where first I learned to wield the quill;
	My schoolmates still seem boys as when
	Their years were only eight or ten.
	How changed ! were I to see them now
	With hoary head and wrinkled brow.
	
	In later years, with cheerful toil,
	I helped to cultivate the soil;
	The varied labors of the farm
	Had such a fascinating charm
	That passing time ne'er drooped his wing
	In summer, autumn, winter, spring.

	But, oh, in riper years there came
	A longing after wealth and fame;
	And so I left the dear old home
	Resolved through foreign lands to roam
	And in those distant climes so fair
	I built my castles in the air.


Most of my hopes have been destroyed,
Yet life has not been all a void;
God's providence has been my stay
Throughout my life's eventful day,
And glowing hopes of future rest
Still soothe and cheer my troubled breast.
							Selected.


[Column One]
HOMESPUN TALKS TO MOTHERS.
	The editorial in the Aug. No. of the Juvenile
has been much in my mind this last few days.
And in connection with the subject therein
treated, viz: that of proper and legitimate
amusements for the young, comes the important
one of legitimate and yet entertaining read-
ing. Because you my dear overlooked over-
worried sister have little or no inclination to
read anything at all, it is not a corollary that
your young fresh and restless daughter feels or
even should feel as you do. If she has the
making of a bright intelligent superior woman
such as you and I would be proud of, she will
not only want to know how to clothe and feed
her body in a cleanly healthful way and to 
keep her home in a neat attractive manner,
but she will also want, insensibly crave, to fill
her mind with all the good and beautiful knowl-
edge in the Universe.
	What has proven the most effective style of
teaching the young? The Froebel or Kindergar-
ten system as it is called in this country.What
are its peculiar methods? To please and interest
the readers, at the same time teaching some
valuable lesson or truth. Indeed have we not
the notable example of our Savior who taught
His disciples by means of the Parable? He was
keenly alive to the importance of driving home
the truths He would inculcate by the aid of
pointed and graphic illustrations.
	It is so with us today. We love to attend
the theatre, to listen to a discourse beautified
by apt quotations, metaphors, and anecdotes as
well as illustrations.
	Mothers, you and I cannot afford to slight
or neglect this home-truth. Our daughters,
giddy, happy, restless creatures that they are,
will learn more lessons from the theatres they
visit, the books they read, than from all the
sermons or rebukes they may hear.
	Much that has been taught them in their
childhood of truth, morality, cleanliness and
even faith will remain indelibly fixed in their
minds. But you have forgotten or overlooked
the fact that with most women all these things
are swept aside if her love happens to be
placed on an unworthy object. Love is a 
most powerful agent in any woman's mind.
And when it comes to the mind of a young
thoughtless inexperienced girl, it is an agent
that enters in as it were and possesses the whole
being.
	Now if the mind of the girl has been en-
gaged, her hopes centered, and her ideals placed
on the love generally pictured in the popular
novel, she is very much in the condition of a
ship at sea without rudder, compass or guide.
And if some fellow jumps aboard, offering to
pilot her into a haven of bliss, she is eager to
find in him all the delightful fascinations of
the novel-hero. The nearer he approaches this
ideal the more dangerous is he to her peace of
mind.
	Perhaps he too is steeped in the pernicious
literature and thenceforth ensues a youthful
comedy which is sometimes well-a-day trans-
formed into a bitter tragedy, the two awaken-
ing to a long bitter tragedy, the two awaken-
ing to a long life of misery as the result of
hasty ill-considered matrimony or perhaps
worse.
	To such a girl a good, honest, downright
lad with no “darlings” “dream of my life,"
"angel-loves" at his tongue's end is a tame com-
mon-place poor spirited fellow who cannot win
[Column Two]
or keep a single affectionate thought from the
novel-spoilt miss.
	Now there is a remedy for all this. There
are novels whose moral is pure and whose per-
usal is a blessing and benefit. The greatest
harm to our girls is not done by the novel
which portrays vice or crime with even too
glaring a hand, for her own maidenly instincts
is protection enough against such as these.
Ah no! Far worse, more deadly in its effects is
the novel in which every word uttered or writ-
ten is of the most refined and chaste character.
But which, first rousing those tender sensibili-
ties of the young mind, exciting all those only 
half-understood and half-acknowledged long-
ings and feelings in the breast of a pure
maiden, by descriptive and delicately veiled
scenes of love and passion, then proceeds to
preach from the text, "Behold here is love,
sweet, passionate and soul-enthralling. It is
worth a whole life of after-misery or after-
shame just to be filled for once with such
delicious bliss."
	Delicious Judge!
	The whole text is—
	“Life for love is well lost.”
	Every event, every word, every scene, every
character is conceived and planned for the
express purpose of the happy culmination of
the two principal characters of the book.
		*	*	*	*	*	*	
	Yet must I assert that the novel is good, very
good in its place, a more powerful teacher to the
young developing susceptible mind than  the
hearth or the pulpit, but it should be most care-
fully selected.
	If your girl craves the intellectual food
and entertainment, she will find means some
way to gratify it.
	Hearing a young married woman speak of 
one of Ouida's novels, I asked her in surprise
if she had been allowed to read such books by
her parents.
	"Oh no," she replied, "mother and father
strictly forbade my reading it."
	"And wherefore then did you see or hear
of it?"
	"Oh, Ma and Pa read this book twice, both of
them. But they would not let me read a
word. You may be sure that just as soon as I 
was married I bought and read that book the
very first thing I did!"
	Consistency!
	Then, parents don't read unless to ascertain
the character of it, any book unfit to put in
your children's hands. But at the same
time supply them with a proper amount of
light reading, encouraging them to gradually
incline to that which is more substantial and
good. History, biography, and the lighter
sciences will or can be gradually taken up
with pleasure as well as great profit.
	Theatres should be as carefully chosen and 
selected as books, for they are even more
powerful teachers of good or bad morals.
	Seems to me we need a Lamanite prophet
Samuel or Abinadi to come and cry out our
sins from the house tops. Do you think he 
would fare much better at our hands, than
he did at the hands of the Nephites?
	Well, I have blushed for our people's in-
consistences. Mothers, shall we do better?
Shall we look to these things a little closer? 
	At a future time I may have something
more to say on this subject.
						HOMESPUN.


NOTICE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Salt
Lake Stake of Zion will commence in the
Fourteenth Ward Hall on Sept. 12th, at 10
o’clock a. m., and at 2 p. m. All are invited
to be present.
			M. Isabella Horne, Prest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly. In Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
Salt Lake City, 	-	-	    September 1, 1889.


[Column 1]
		﻿THE BURNT CITY.
	To be in Spokane just after the great fire is
something of a novelty to say the least—“A City
of tents" only a few houses left standing in the
business portion of the City. Thirty of the finest 
blocks burned. It would be next to impossible to
describe the scene, and would take a genuine re-
porter to do justice to the subject. Something new
at any rate to see a burnt city. The effects of the
fire demon are upon every side, it has spread
desolation broadcast where peace and plenty
reigned.  Mr. Hussey,so well-known years ago in
Salt Lake City, has a bank here, and the writer is
at present in his house situated far enough from
the centre of town to escape the fire. He has a 
handsome residence new and modern in every
part and he entertains most hospitably. Having
had to wait over here for a train it seemed good
fortune indeed to find an old Salt Lake resident
to whom one could apply when the hotels are in
ashes. Sitting here writing, the rush of the river
(Spokane) is distinctly heard and looking out to-
wards the City one sees ruins weird enough to 
please the most fastidious lover of the strange and
fanciful. The tents scattered up and down are
more picturesque by moonlight and electric light
than in the hazy midday. The barbers, the
bakers, etc., have opened up business in tents,
temporarily, so have other tradesmen and the
saloons and gambling houses are in a place of 
canvas and coal oil. The "wheel of fortune" one
can see through the canvas screen is thickly sur-
rounded by men—and so whether, ill luck or good
luck betides, man bent upon working out his des-
tiny rushes on and on. Neither fires nor floods
seem to quench the insatiate desire of some men to
wait for luck rather than the result of honest toil;
—and so the world plods on; and men and women
rise above calamities and cast about again for new
fields of adventure, or repair the destruction and
havoc of fire and floods. Another city will doubt-
less soon arise from the dead ashes of this doomed
one, and business go on more briskly than before.
At present the streets are crowded with men, and
one wonders if there is not among them those who
are desperate and reckless. Should cold weather
set in early much suffering must necessarily be the
result, but at present the outlook is hopeful. A 
wonderful picture to gaze upon is this city in
ruins, piles of brick and stone saved from the
burnt buildings are stacked here and there ready
to be used again as soon as possible. A number
of those whose places were burned down will put
up much larger and more substantial buildings.
Three of the corners in the central part of the
town sold the next day after the fire for a thousand
dollars a foot to build banking houses upon.
This had a most excellent effect upon the state of
things, and was a good advertisement when tele-
graphed abroad as it was immediately. Mr.
[Column 2]
Hussey had most remarkable presence of mind
when he saw his place must burn, he brought
away in a trunk the books, papers and currency,
necessary to open immediately, and early on the
following morning had procured a narrow place
in one of the few houses left standing, had a tem-
porary railing put in, a sign painted and hung in
its place and at nine o'clock a. m. opened for
regular business. The fire proof safes were all
right and therefore there was not much loss with
the banks. 
	Previous to the fire this must have been a very
delightful town, and one cannot help feeling
sorrowful when viewing or contemplating such a
desolating scourge. Fires, floods, casualties and
calamities are visiting the earth in fulfillment of
prophecy, let the world decide as they may.
Many allude to Mother Shipton's prophecies, but
never to those of the Scriptures or the Latter-day
Saints. But time will tell the story and many
more hearts will ache. May those who have oil in
their lamps, keep them  trimmed and burning,
ready for the coming of the Bridegroom.


[Column 1]﻿
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The trial of Mrs. Maybrick in the English
courts has caused considerable comment and
thought among thinking women. The case is un-
parallelled. A woman accused of her husband’s
murder, tried, and sentenced to be hung. If
innocent the accusation itself would be enough to
kill most any woman, if guilty the trial and
sentence would certainly overcome her. Through-
out the case is most shocking and the sentence to
be hanged caused such a sensation that when it
was commuted to imprisonment for life, terrible
as it is, a great relief was felt. However, from
present indications this will not be long, for the
prisoner’s health is failing every day and in death
perhaps release will come.

	The Annual of the University of Deseret 1889-
1890 has been received. The pamphlet contains
84 pages, printed clearly on heavy paper and has
a frontispiece of the large and handsome new
University Building. Much valuable information
concerning this important Territorial institution is
given concisely. A complete index to subjects
first, the names of the Chancellor, Board of
Regents, Officers etc. The Faculty and Board of
instruction is very large and complete, numbering
in all 22 teachers. Instructors in French and
German from their respective countries are em-
ployed, and competent masters of all departments
including vocal and instrumental music,
drawing, painting, architecture and law. A
brief history is told of the University with date
of its establishment and incorporation by the
Legislative Assembly of the Provincial Govern-
ment in February 1850. Particulars are given in
detail in regard to Normal students. Six De-
partments are organized. First Science, Litera-
ture and the Arts. Second Normal, Third Pre-
paratory, Fourth Music, Fifth Art, Sixth Deaf
Mute. Studies for each year are classified and
arranged regularly. Programme and Text books
given, also books of Reference.  Connected with
the institution are two large libraries and a
Museum. Current literature and local papers
furnished. During the last few years special at-
tention has been given to the Deaf Mute Depart-
ment, and that has been a blessing and benefit to
many of this class of pupils. Altogether Utah
may be justly proud of her University and the
efforts made for its advancement and permanency
in the past and present. John R. Park’ M. D.
Principal.

	School Openings—After a few weeks rest and
change the teachers and pupils return from the
mountains, the sea side and the numerous camp-
ing places, refreshed and exhilerated by the sum-

[Column 2]
mers outing to resume the duties and the pleasures
of school life.
	The heat of summer is well nigh spent and
cool nights and pleasant days of early fall are
with us and the eager smiling faces of the children
as they gaily wend their way to and from the
school house show that the task of learning and
the pleasure of meeting old school mates is in-
deed delightful. There are no days so happy or
so full as these and in after years the brightest
spots in memory are the hours of school life.
The schools in Utah are now in excellent con-
dition and if not entirely free—(though in some
parts of the territory they are) have so reasonable
a tution that there should be no excuse for keep-
ing children out. Parents try to allow your
children some school privileges even though it
may be hard for you to spare them. In many
cases families are large and the mother needs her
girls to help with the house duties, while the
father can scarcely spare the boys from the farm
or out door work but the school hours are not
long and every one should have some opportuni-
ties for learning. In some countries education is
compulsory and where parents fail to send their
children during certain years to the schools they
are subject to punishment by law. In this country
the laws are not at all severe on this subject still
it is expected of parents to look to the education
of their children and every one ought at least, at
as early an age as possible to be taught to read and
write, while, of course higher education renders
one more fit for the different branches of labor.
The district schools have mostly nice buldings
splendidly equipped and competent teachers and
are in every way ready for teaching the common
branches of learning and preparing scholars for
the University and higher schools while in many
counties now, there are the Stake Academies
where not only are taught the usual studies, be-
sides literature, drawing, music etc., but Theology
as well. Throughout the territory are well kept
schools and we hope this year they also will be
well filled.

	There is a saying something about "there will
be a great going to and fro in the earth” and that
time has certainly come. With the great con-
veniences on land and water and the wonderful
speed now in which voyages are made it lies
within the power of most every people to travel
from country to country. Kings, Princes and
Potentates alike with their peoples are moving
and wandering around the earth, some for pleas-
ure some for business, some for diplomacy, some
for one thing and some for another but all are
certainly on the go, so to speak, and we wonder
and sometimes smile at the strange and peculiar
manner in which circumstances bring about ac-
quaintances. People who in their own country
might live for years and never see one another
meet abroad on the most cordial terms. While the
Emperor of Germany reviews the English
soldiers with his Royal Gandmother and inspect
the British Men of War with his uncle—The
Prince of Wales,—all with much pomp and
dignity, the Shah of Persia is hob nobbing
around Paris with President Harrison’s son, Rus-
sel, and Edison the wonderful inventor in com-
pany of some most distinguished Americans,
Whitelaw Ried and Chauncy Depew, for instance
are dining with Buffaloe Bill. In fact Buffaloe
Bill known at home, simply as a sensational actor
in his not too popular “Wild West'’ show seems to
be the hero of the day in Paris, that most beauti-
ful and delightful of cities. In all this changing
and moving around our own people are sharing,
and travel is broadening their minds and develop-
ing the character as well as educating and amus-
ing them. Of visitors too we have our share,
daily distinguished people arrive in our territory
and all find at least a few hours tor sightseeing in
this our beautiful city. The Temple, the Taber-


nacle with its wonderful organ, and Pres. Young’s
Grave are the chief points of interest but there
are others too and the stranger always dwells in
admiration on our lovely homes, our shady streets,
our lucious fruits and our delightful climate. The
gates are ever open and whether the stranger
comes to remain or only for a flying visit there
is always a welcome awaiting him.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ON THE WAY.
	If you could see how long a distance I have
been, you would not wonder that I had not written.
  
	The team is now here and we start in a few
minutes for Panguitch, forty-five miles ride. We
held no meetings in Minersville, Sister Snow
stopped one day to rest. We stopped at Adams-
ville next, with the Sisters. Pres. Murdock was
there,also at Greenville; we had many good meet-
ings, they are small places but alive to their
duties. It poured down with rain as we entered
Greenville, at 3 p. m., but we got to Beaver before
sunset, distance 18 miles. Sunday went to meet
ing, Monday Sisters, Conference all day, a very
good time.
	In the evening the Y. L. and Y. M. I. Conference
also a house full and such lovely singing and some
of the most beautiful girls I ever saw in any
place.
	It is very healthy, I have not seen a feeble
looking child; the aged are mostly the suffer-
ers. 				We	have attended	twelve
meetings including the Young Ladies’and Pri-
maries; the children have all done very well.
Tuesday.
	I am at Pres. Murdock’s. The Stake President
Sister Howd goes with us to Panguitch. Sister
Snow has attended all the meetings here, her
wrist is some lame, that is the worst feature from
that fearful fall.
	God is very good, all has been done for us that
it was possible to do. 		We	stopped
one night with Sister R. W. Tyler, had a good
visit; she sent her love to you; am going to
canvass for the Exponent wherever we go, from
place to place.
			Your Loving Sister,
						Z. D. H. Young.
Beaver City, Aug. 14th 1889.


THE CAUSE OF MIRAGE.
	Emil Sorel, in La Nature, says: “There are
days on which, in certain weather, and despite
the curvature of the earth, the distance of visi-
bility is doubled, or more than doubled. This
phenomenon is explained to us by a well-known
law of physics. If we throw a coin into an empty
vessel, it will be hidden by the edge of the latter,
at a certain distance; but if we fill the vessel with
water, the coin will become visible. We have
here a case of refraction, such as is explained in
elementary works of physics. Every one also
knows the theory of the mirage put forth by the
celebrated Monge, who explained the phenomenon
as due to the diminution of the air’s density in
contact with the super-heated earth. A contrary
theory will explain the mirage at sea. While the
sun is making the atmosphere intensely hot, the
sea and the strata of air in contact therewith re-
main relatively cold, and these strata become
superposed in the order of their density. A
luminous ray emanating from the sea will pass
from one stratum into another of less density,
there will be a refraction, and an object beneath
the horizon will be seen above it This theory
supposes two conditions, to wit, a heating of the
atmosphere, while the sea and the earth remain
relatively cold, and a calmness of it to permit its
strata to become superposed in the order of their


density. It is precisely when these two condi-
tions are fulfilled that the phenomenon of the
mirage occurs.  On such days ships rise instead
of descend in measure as they recede. As the
horizon is perceived by direct visibility, a ship is
finally seen above the horizon as if it were sus-
pended in the air. It is the famous ‘phantom
ship,’ familiar to sailors—a visible ship in its
natural, upright position. If atmospheric condi-
tions were favorable, a second ship would be seen
above the first, etc. Certain mariners worthy of
credence have assured me that they have seen as
many as seven superposed ships.”


A FALSE STEP.
	Perhaps you have made a false step, and have
lost hope in consequence. You probably ex-
aggerate the evil done. Don't fancy that every-
body is talking about it. People have plenty to
think about, and they will not be interested in you
very long. "Try again." Choose a new path,
and cut down the briers, and subdue the obstacles,
which, after all, are only there to test your strength.
You will be happy in doing this, and you will be
respected by all the other plodders in their respec-
tive pathways. Try to keep the sunshine ever 
above you, and the North Star ahead of you, then
cheerfulness and good will be your companions,
and in time you will reach the top, or be a recog-
nized hero or heroine. Success in life depends
upon industry and a determination to succeed.
We should be hopeful, for Hope never ruined any
one, but despondency has sent many a poor soul
to its grave. "it is better to rub than rust—it
is better to hope than pine," the poet says.
"Character is like cloth, if white it can be dyed
black; but once blackened, it cannot be dyed
white. 
						MATTIE W.


[Column 1]
	﻿LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
		BY M. J. TANNER.
			[Continued.]
	Monday June 15, 1885. Out again: How
I love to travel: It seems to infuse fresh vigor
in my life. Everything is new and novel, and
there is an excitement in it that is very fasci-
nating. The country is pleasant and the
scenery constantly changing. The houses we
pass are all built of frame and painted white.
The latest style is olive-green trimmed with
red. Here is one pea-green and a slate-colored
one. Many houses are poor looking and have
no paint. On, on we go, past farms and sta-
tions. Here the land is rocky. Large piles of
stones are scattered about where they have been
gathered from off the land, and grass and
weeds form a border around them. It is in-
teresting to see the people who get on the train
at different towns. Cousin Emily and I were
weighed while waiting at the depot. I weighed
117 lbs. Gained about 8 lbs., since leaving
home.
	Rochester, 10 a. m. More like the eastern
cities judging by the depot. Thickly settled,
high houses, covered depot, buildings all of 
brick. I am so busy taking notes that I do
not notice that every one has left the car un-
til a man tells me that I must change cars here.
I look around and see that I am the only per-
son left, gather up my things in haste and get
on another car as directed. I seat myself and
in looking over my belongings find that I have
left my parasol. It is too late to get it now for
the car is moving. I once more take out my
note book and pencil. 
	Near Lyons, pleasantly situated on a hill, is 
a large brick building which is pointed out to
me as an asylum for idiots. And here is Lyons. 
11 a. m., of which little can be seen as we run
[Column 2]
in between two rows of freight cars. The car
is full and I have as a seat mate a gentleman
who has traveled all night coming from
Chicago, he is sleeping and I have no one to
tell me about the country.
	Syracuse 12.15. Twenty minutes for dinner.
I have my lunch and eat it on the train as do
some others. I see by the sign that it is 130
miles to Schenectady. Syracuse is a large city
but there is little to be seen from the depot,
and one cannot tell much about people and
places on so slight an acquaintance. I can look
into the dining room and see the people eating.
Collared waiters are passing straw-berries.
Some ladies are walking on the platform
dressed in lovely costumes. As we start out
we pass through what appears to be Main
Street. On each side are very high brick
houses, and a continuous line of stores, mil-
linery shops, business houses and churches. 
Near the suburbs stands "Wards Temperance
Hotel.” It looks small and poorly patronized.
Out in the country, we pass large hop farms.
	Oneida 1.20 p. m. There is a beautiful lawn
around the depot and the word Oneida laid in
white cobble stones.
	Rome, 1.55. Here people crowd on the 
train, more than there are seats for. The
weather is hot. My neighbor gives his seat to
a lady.
	Utica, 2.20. Here several people leave the 
train. 3.15. We are traveling through Herkimer
Co., celebrated for its large dairies. Through
the valley of the Mohawk River. It is a 
beautiful country. Change cars at Schenectady.
getting a ticket to Caldwell where they tell me
I will have to stay all night and go down the
lake on a steamboat in the morning to Balton.
I meet a  pleasant young lady who is going to
Caldwell and tells me something about the
route and what hotel to stay at in Caldwell.
The face of the country changes. Ballstown
seems burried in hills and woods.
	Saritoga. Change cars, waiting about half
an hour. Here at the depot is the "United
States Hotel,” the largest house I think I ever
saw. The two sides which we see from the
platform reach a block each way. I walk down
the road to the corner and find that it extends
along the third side of the block. I am afraid
to take time to explore any farther. Many
people get off here for it is a famous resort for
the world of fashion and must, no doubt allure
many adventurers. I think I should not like
to stay here. We travel on and change cars
at Fort Edward where I part with my com-
panion. The country grows more hilly and
thicker wooded as we go on.
	Glens Falls—Caldwell.  Here is the end of
the road, for we are at the head of the beautiful
and far famed Lake George, and twilight is 
gathering around us. A steamboat stands at
the landing which connects with depot but it
will not go until morning. It is 8 o'clock and
I turn to go toward the cab stand after getting
the above information. I see a big, burly,
pleasant looking man in an old felt hat, look-
ing something after the fashion of the boys hats
at home, with the rim lapped down, holding a
whip in his hand. I take him for a cabby and
ask which cab will take me to the American
Hotel. He says he does not know, and I pass
 on. I wish I had asked him if he knows any-
one by the name of Putney. Still it would be
useless as they will not expect me until I reach
Balton where they will be sure to meet me to-
morrow. But Oh, how I do hate to stop at a
hotel among strangers. I feel so shrinking and
diffident away off here alone. If the boat had
only gone down tonight how nice it would
have been. However there is no time now for
regrets, I must hasten to secure a cab before
they are gone. It would not be pleasant walk-
ing through town in search of a hotel. I reach
the line of cabs and ask for the American 
Hotel. A cabby takes my satchel and seats


[Column 1]
﻿me in the last cab on the line. Several delays
occur and finally we are just starting out when
a voice from the outside asks if Mrs. Myron
Tanner is in here. I say that is my name and
ask if he has come for me. He replies that
he has and I get out of the cab thinking at
the time that the American Hotel has lost one
customer. He tells me to wait on the plat-
form while he brings the horse around. I recog-
nize in him the man I spoke to on the platform.
Presently he appears with a buckboard of
ancient and uncertain appearance drawn by a
horse which to ride after might lay one liable to
prosecution for cruelty to animals My heart
fails me for a moment and I feel that possibly
I am in a “delima.” However, I yield to the
force of circumstances and allow him to help
me into the vehicle and while we are being
whirled away he very politely informes me
that he is Caleb. I am glad to hear it and
kindly enquire what our relationship may be.
He says he is Caleb Putney son of my husband’s
Aunt Maria, and tells me that he has a brother
and two sisters. In the meantime darkness
is gathering around us and we have a ride of
ten miles before us. I enquire if the road is
good and receive an affirmative answer. There
is no moon and the sky is cloudy, as we enter
the woods and drive between rows of tall trees
it is sometimes so dark that we cannot see the
horse. We necessarily travel rather slowly,
and our long and somewhat lively conversation
is frequently interrupted by an apostraphy to
the horse. “Get up there you old lazy if you
don’t go faster I shall have to whip you dread-
ful hard.”
	I am asked many questions about Utah and
in return for information given am made ac-
quainted with the history of the family at home.
There had been a family council held about
coming to meet me. “Father” said I would
come up on the boat in the morning and they
would meet me at the landing. But he thought
I would not like to stay at a hotel among
strangers, which I assure him I was decidedly
averse to.
	The seat of our conveyance has scarcely any
back and he is very anxious lest I should go
to sleep and fall off, and what shall he do with
me if I fall and break my neck. Box me up
and send me back to Utah, I say, but he
would rather send me back alive, and so en-
joines me to be very careful not to fall, even
offering, if I think there is any danger, to hold
me on. Whenever there is a lull in the con-
versation he enquires if I am sleepy and en-
joines me not to fall off. I am certainly not
sleepy. The situation is so novel, the surround-
ings so strange and the air so bracing after the
hot day’s ride, and the conversation of my
companion so (what shall I say) exhilerating
that altogether I seem possessed of a spirit of
fun, and almost fancy myself a girl again.
	I learn that he is the only one of his fathers
children that has married though David and
Rebecka are both older than he. That he has
five children living and has burried one. That
his girls are dreadful good singers. That his
mother is a dreadful good woman. That his
horse is dreadful poor. Father would not let
his horse come because it was afraid of the
train. He has no horse, but a yoke of cattle
and the boy claims them. He also has some
sheep and the boy claims them. I see some
water and ask if that is Lake George. No
that is only “the pond.” He will take me to
Lake George in the morning. I hear a coarse
grum voice and ask “what is that?” Why!
that is a bull-frog. Did I never hear a bull-
frog before? I supposed I never had if that
was the kind of noise they made. Our frogs in
Utah made a different noise. They were a
small green frog. “Am I afraid?” “Oh no,
not of a bull-frog.” But I am beginning to
think the ride “dreadful” long, for I am
getting “dreadful” tired. He thinks it must
[Column 2]
be getting dreadful late and wonders if the girls
will be up. We get home at last, 11.15 p. m.
find the girls up and supper waiting. We sit
down to supper and he asks the blessing. The
first blessing I have heard since leaving home,
though my friends all profess religion. It gives
me a very comfortable homelike feeling. His
father gets up to welcome me and after supper
I am shown to a clean comfortable room and I
go to rest feeling that I am among friendly,
good people. Caleb’s home is a mile farther.
	Balton June 16,1885.—Get up late this
morning feeling weary after my long ride. I
am introduced to Caleb’s mother, who is a tall
slim elderly woman, very quiet and pleasant in
her ways. She gives me a kind welcome and
is glad to see one of her sister’s family. The
men are all gone to their work and after
breakfast Rebecka, or as she is called in the
family, Becky Ann goes down to the pond
with me. It is called the Trout Lake, and is
a pretty body of water two miles long and half
a mile wide surrounded with trees. Their home
is only a short distance from the bank but
owing to the thick growth of bushes we cannot
see it from the house. I think I should like to
see the frog that makes such a great noise but
he is rather shy and we cannot find one.  We
take a walk in the woods and pick winter-
green. The fragrant leaves of which are tender
and sweet, the berries are nearly gone but now
and then a red berry rewards our search.
	After dinner Caleb comes over and gets his
father’s horse and buggy and takes me to Lake
George. It is a pleasant ride through the
woods of about two and a half miles. The
country here is all hills, and woods, with here
and there a rock thrown in. The rock is black
granite and ranges from the size of a trunk to
the size of a house, or as the boy said “about
as big as a lump of chalk,” which may be quite
as definite. We call at the old homestead
that Father Tanner used to own, and where
my husband was born. The lady of the
house, Mrs. Vandenberg is very pleasant and
shows us through all the rooms and tells us the
alterations that have been made. The kitchen
and woodshed, (everybody here has a wood-
shed well filled with stove wood) has been
taken from the west side and built on the
south end, making the whole house face the
street which runs east of the house, between it
and the Lake. The portico is taken away and
a porch built the whole length, which makes a
lovely place to sit in the afternoon, with the
beautiful lake spread out before us and the
mountains, thickly covered with trees on the
opposite side. The house has been newly
weatherboarded and painted white. Since
Father Tanner left there with his family fifty
years ago, considerable of the land has been
sold in small lots and quite a village now
stands on what used to be known as the Tanner
Farm. A large hotel stands on the bank of
the lake a few rods east of the house, known
as the “Balton House,” and a steamboat land-
ing is made there. Mrs. V. takes me down to
the lake and shows me through the hotel.
From the observatory we have a fine view of
the surrounding country. She invites me to
spend a few days with her and visit various
points of interest. We go from there and call
on Morgan Tanner, a grandson of my hus-
band’s uncle, Pardon Tanner. He is of medium
size, dark complexion with keen black eyes,
about thirty years of age and a widower. I
tell him I am looking up family history and he
promises to help me all he can. From there
we go to Green Island. It once belonged to
the Tanner estate. It is now laid out in parks
and groves and a fine hotel, and some cottages
are built there as it is a fashionable summer
resort. It comprises sixty-five acres of land;
has a steamboat landing and is connected with
the mainland by a bridge. It is called the
Sagamore, and is certainly a lovely summer
[Column 3]
retreat. Little boats are kept there for rowing
on the lake, which is certainly a very pleasant
pastime. A steamboat comes puffing toward
the landing and our horse gets restive, so we
get in the buggy and start for home. She
trots nicely while she hears the engine and we
think it would be well to have a steamboat be-
hind us all the way. We stop at the post-
office to get some stamps and mail some letters.
Caleb introduces me to several of his friends
and they all have some joke to make about
Utah. It rains a little before we get home.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

BEAVER STAKE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
     The stake conference of the R. S. convened
August 12th, in the L. D. S. Meeting house,
Beaver City.  President Lucinda Howd pre-
siding.
     After the opening exercises the presidents of
the various branches gave their reports,showing
that a portion of the sisters are alive to their
duties and helping to care for the poor and
sick.
     Sisters Zina Young and Minerva Snow being
present addressed the conference both forenoon
and afternoon.
     Sister Zina Young was happy to meet with
the sisters. “It is a duty to meet together and
if we wish to live happy we must make our
duties our pleasures.  We are the daughters
of God and we must acknowledge His good-
ness and mercy.  We must be filled with in-
tegrity toward Him for it is worth more than
the riches of this world as it will lead us back
into the presence of God.  We must be united
and make our homes happy and pleasant.  We
are weaving the web of life and we must try
to make it smooth and beautiful without slip-
knots or ragged edges.  Be pure and chaste in
our thoughts and actions.  Never indulge in
envy, hate, or any ugly feeling, as such things
are opposed to the spirit of God.
     Our children must be tested as we are being
tested and we must fortify them with good
principle.  Fill up their minds with good so
there will not  be room for the bad.” Speaker
read the 13th Chap. of 1st Corrinthians on
charity, and commented at some length show-
ing the beauty of that principle.  The revela-
tion given to Emma Smith through Joseph the
Seer, in Harmony, Susquehanna Co., Penn.,
July, 1830, was also read. “These things
teach us to beware of vanity and pride and
cleave unto the covenants we have made.  I
would rather suffer death than to miss the asso-
ciation of my husband in the eternal world.”
Speaker referred to many grand principles and
keys and showed how it is only by being
humble, wise, pure, and faithful in the things
of God that we can receive an exaltation.
     Sister Minerva Snow felt rather weak in con-
sequence of the accident she had received but
was thankful she was able to be present.  Ac-
knowledged the hand of God and said Sister
Zina had been called by the priesthood to
preside over the Relief Societies throughout
the world and her counsel was dictated by the
spirit of God. “We have been sent here to fill
a mission and if we desire to fill it to the honor
and glory of our Heavenly Father we must
not spend our time in idleness.  Remember
God in the days of prosperity and He will not 
forget us in the hours of darkness.”
     Spoke of outside influences and the attempts
of our enemies to lead our children astray
through their love of pleasure.  We must
teach our children to pray, to resist tempta-
tion and to keep their spirits and bodies pure.
Throw around them the arms of love and
kindness and teach them to lean upon God.
     We are blessed above all women upon the
face of the earth.  We have been organized


into these associations and have covenanted
with God to discharge certain obligations
therein.  Hence what manner of women ought
we to be?  We ought to be clothed with purity,
charity and humility; being diligent in keep-
ing every commandment of God that we may
be a pattern to those around us.
     Be united for it is union that will bind the
power of the adversary.  We are called to a
high and holy calling and we must be humble
in the hands of God that we may work for the
salvation of mankind.  Sister Snow bore her
testimony to the truth, and rejoiced even in
persecution as it proved that the day of re-
demption is near.
     Stake counsellor E. H. Bennett desired to be
an instrument in the hands of God for doing
good.  Spoke of the responsibilities of mothers.
Bore her testimony and thought if we would
put into practice the teachings of Sisters
Young and Snow and live up to our privileges
we would be saved and exalted.
     Stake counsellor Bro. M. L. Shepherd spoke
a short time with regard to the training of our
children.  Thought we ought not to neglect
their minds in order to adorn their bodies.
Keep them from the street, instil correct prin-
ciples into them and also a love for knowledge
and they will fill their high destiny to become
noble and great in the kingdom of God.
     President Howd rejoiced in the teachings
we have received and  bore testimony to the
divinity and greatness of the work in which
we are engaged.
	The conference was adjourned for three
months.
     The sisters of Beaver have enjoyed a rich
treat in the visit of Sisters Young and Snow,
and feel thankful they have health and
strength to travel and labor among the sisters
and impart such wise, judicious, and timely
counsel.
     The accident to Sister Snow resulted from
her being thrown from the carriage by the
horses running away just as they were enter-
ing Minersville.  She was picked up insensi-
ble but, by the blessing of the Lord, recovered
so far in a day or two as to continue her
journey.
			LOUISA JONES, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE YOUNG WOMAN’S JOURNAL.

	After careful consideration it is now proposed
to establish a monthly magazine, containing the
highest thoughts, brightest fancies, and the
most elevating ideas of the Daughters of
Zion.
	The Magazine, of which Sister Susa Young
Gates (“Homespun”) will be the Editor, will
contain thirty-two pages of reading matter, and
will be divided into departments.
     First: Literary.  Second: A department for
the publication of the best essays produced in
the various Associations throughout the
country.  Third:  A department of health and
hygiene.  Fourth:  A household department.
Fifth:  A dress department.  Sixth A depart-
ment presided over by the General Presidency
of the Y. L. M. I. A., through which they may
speak to the young sisters, announce appoint-
ments, and give advice and counsel.
	This in brief is the plan of the proposed pub-
lication.  It is designed to issue the first num-
ber October 1st, 1889.  The price of subscrip-
has been placed at $2.00 a year.
     The General Presidency of the Y. L. M. I. A.
Elmina S. Taylor, Maria Young Dougall,
Mattie Horne Tingey, will have a general
supervision of the matter.


The Young Woman’s Christian Association
of Chicago propose to build an addition to their
home at a cost of $20,000.


[Column 1]﻿
WESTMINSTER ABBEY.
BY J. C. KITTREDGE.
AISLE OF MUSIC.
	Among others we took particular note of
the statues of Handel and Francis Burney,
the father of Fanny Burney, and the author
of a history of music.
THE NAVE.
	The nave of Westminster Abbey is exten-
sive and imposing. Its length is one hundred
and sixty-six feet, and its breadth seventy-
one feet and nine inches. The most promi-
nent monument in this section is that to Sir
Isaac Newton. It is located at the extreme
eastern end of the nave. The philosopher is
represented in a sitting position, leaning upon
a pile of books. A large globe is above, and
near by are two cupids, or angels, represent-
ing inspiration, or something of the kind.
Ben Jonson was buried in the nave, in an up-
right position, it is said.
“O, rare Ben Jonson!
	In the northwest corner is a monument to
Charles James Fox. In the baptistry Words-
worth is remembered. On the opposite side
lies Livingstone, the African explorer. Ameri-
 can revolutionary affairs were brought to
mind as we looked at the statue of Major
Andre. In the south aisle of the choir is a
statue to Isaac Watts, dated 1794, and one to
John and Charles Wesley.
	Imagination paints the time, in the future,
when this great church will be a ruin, as the
Perthenon and the Coliseum are to day;
when pilgrims will go thither from all parts
of the world, and will gaze, in many cases
vaguely, on those crumbling monuments of
the past. Long after that time will be seen
what is the permanence and efficacy of good
literature, for when the great abbey and its
contents shall have disappeared the words and
thoughts of Shakspeare, Milton, Byron, and
Carlyle will still exist.
THE CHARTER HOUSE.
	The chapter house at Westminster Abbey
is a place of exceptional note, as the house of
lords once sat there during a period of more
than three hundred years. A rather strange
place, one would say, for a political body to
hold its sittings! The chapter house (or house
of the chapter, or body) of a cathedral is the
place where all the business of the church is
conducted. Great laws treating of civil and
religious liberty were made there. On the
table of this chapter house was placed the
“Black Book,” the decree of Henry VII
against monasteries. There was an advance
toward clearer light—the pulling away of
weeds which were growing about the altar;
work which was so bravely began by Luther.
CHAPEL OF PYX.
	This chapel comes next in order. There
the ancient jewels were kept. The iron-bound
chests which contained them can still be found.
The only object of importance at present is
the standard of gold and silver.
THE LIBRARY.
	This apartment is a creation of compara-
tively modern days, as it was founded in 1620.
As readers recollect, Washington Irving has
facetiously described it in the “Sketch Book,”
in the article entitled “The Mutability of
Literature.”	
THE INFIRMARY.
	There the sick monks were nursed, and
the bad ones whipped.
MUNIMENT ROOM AND TRIFORIUM.
	In this room are kept the archives of the

[Column 2]
abbey, in curious old chests. A fine view of
the church can be had from the triforium.
JERUSALEM CHAMBER.
	Perhaps the most noteworthy circumstance
connected with this place is that Henry VII
died here. Shakspeare thus describes the
circumstance:

King Henry—Laud be to God! even there my life must
	end.
It hath been prophesied to me many years,
I should not die but in Jerusalem;
Which vainly I supposed the Holy Land.
But bear me, to that chamber, there I’ll lie,
In that Jesusalem shall Harry die.

But we must not leave the place without
refering to the Westminster assembly and the
making of the famous catechism.
		WESTMINSTER SCHOOL.
	This institution of learning, which is an
annex of the abbey, was founded by Henry
III and was endowed by Elizabeth in 1560.
It is one of the prominent educational houses
of the country, and is on a line with Eaton
and Harrow. Many quaint old customs are
retained at this place, as at the others. Among
them is a curious old game played by
the students. It consists of tossing a cake
over a bar, and the student who catches it
intact and takes it to the head-master
gets a guinea. Many reminiscences and as-
sociations are connected with this establish-
ment.
THE MONASTERY. 
	In former times the monastery extended
far beyond the present limits. Sir Walter
Raleigh was imprisoned in the monastery on
the night previous to his execution. Prisoners
were kept in the gate house. Hampden was
placed there, and Jeffry Hudson, the dwarf,
died there, accused of having participated in
the popish plot.  The brave little fellow was
he who is so felicitously described in Scott’s
“Peveril of the Peak.”	
THE SANCTUARY,
	It was in the sanctuary of Westminster that
the family of Edward IV were confined by
the order of Richard III. There the widow
Elizabeth bade adieu to her son Richard,
whence he departed to the tower, never to
return. There also she received news of the
murder of the princes.
THE ALMONRY.
	There stands Caxton’s printing press. As
the reader remembers, it was during the
reign of Edward IV that the art of printing
was introduced into England. From the seed
then sown what a vast forest has spung up!
There is an interesting picture somewhere,
representing the king and family visiting
Caxton. The latter is showing them the won-
ders of the invention. At that time it was
doubtless one of the marvels of the earth.
THE KING'S JEWEL HOUSE.
	There are the old standards of weights and
measures and the Elizabethan ell and yard.
To-day in the United States, as is well known,
there is an officer elected annually who is
called “sealer of weights and measures,” whose
function is to adjust the same. Correct scales
and measures are kept in the town hall, and
defective ones are corrected by them. Probably
those at Westminister were the original ones.
Thus, upon examination, we see that almost
every law and regulation under which we live
had its original sway in the remote past of
England. Every true American should recog-
nize this fact.
	Acts of parliament nor declarations of inde-


pendence cannot entirely dismember England
from the United States.  In language, morals,
sentiment and race they are identical.  At this
place there was a custom in the olden time for
the sheriff to count sixty-one nails in a horse-
shoe, as a proof of education, as only well in-
structed men could count sixty-one.  This in-
cident is instructive, too, showing as it does
what advances have been made in learning.
		   [To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ALL AROUND THE HOUSE.

	It has often been affirmed that woman is the
inspirer, not the creator, of art;  but what-
ever part she may sustain either in its origin
or in its advancement, it cannot be denied
that in the field of what we understand as
domestic art, she stands in the foremost ranks.
If not the executor, she is the designer, of the
many ornamental trifles that characterize her
home.  Trifles they are, and while we assemble
the wealth of tidies, lamp shades, table covers,
teacozies and the like, under that general head,
few of us fail to acknowledge that these same
are the key notes of home ornamentation.
	Fancy work--the term is frequently used in
derision; yet, let the same man who describes
it go into a house, however beautiful by the
art of the upholsterer and profesional decora-
tor, and he is moved to exclaim, "It is beauti-
ful, but it needs touches here and there."
Perhaps he does not himself recognize what
these same are.  They are nothing, yet every-
thing, and they are the products of deft
fingers, stimulated by home affection.  Domes-
tic-art-needle-work holds at present a high
position, and not for the first time, by any
means.  The good dames of all ages have
been wont to break the tedium of their days
by fashioning useful decorative conceits; from
time to time, however, as other pursuits sprang
into favor, the housework would languish.  It
is claimed that the present impetus has been
given it by women of true artistic tempera-
ments, who bring to their work an interest, to-
gether with an originality, that make it of
unusual importance.
					Courrier Journal.


THE TRAINING OF CHILDREN.

	The chief difficulty with those who have the
management of children lies in the fact that
they have not yet learned to manage them-
selves.  The training of a child has to do with
its well-being physically, intellectually, and
religiously, and only one who is himself
properly trained in these matters is capable of
directing another.
	 It is a lamentable fact that two-thirds of the
people we meet are chronic invalids; seldom
down sick perhaps, but never well; never in a
condition to enjoy without painful reaction
what should be the natural activity of mind
and muscle.  They undertake but little, ac-
complish less; are never equal to an emer-
gency, and, in fact, get from their lives a small
amount of the enjoyment which is their due.
How much of this is owing to mismanagement
in childhood, it becomes each parent's duty to
inquire.
	All parents should understand enough about
physiology to be able to deal wisely with their
children's bodies from the beginning, and to
teach this important study to them as soon as
they are old enough to comprehend.  Many
important branches are taught in the schools,
but physiology, if taught at all, is not done in
that whole-souled manner it is the parents'
duty and privilege to do at home.  If this mat
ter was properly attended to, there would be
fewer nervous, dyspeptic men and women


dragging wearily through life, a burden to
themselves and those around them.  "A sound
mind in a sound body" is a thing of wonderful
capabilities.  A child thus endowed is con-
stantly upon the lookout for information.  It
finds it in the conversation of its parents.  The
companionship of a cultivated person is a
powerful educator.  If, unfortunately, the
parent, owing to circumstances which sur-
rounded his youth, is not, in this respect, what
he wishes his child to be, he must put forth
every energy of mind and body to overcome
these defects.  He will find it hard work; in-
deed he can never be "as one to the manner
born."  But he can do a great deal toward
fitting himself to be such a companion for his
child as he could wish him to have.
	More important than all else is the religious
training of children. Few people, of whatever
profession, would purposely, or even willingly,
keep their sons and daughters in ignorance of
Him through whom "we live, move and have
our being;" but how may one teach another
who has not himself been taught?  "Be what
you would have your child to be," touches a
parent's experience at every point, and only
when we have learned and appropriated this
important maxim, shall we know how to train
our children.
				The Phrenological Journal.


The leading spirit of Santa Ynez, Cal., is
said to be Miss A. J. Hails, a Massachusetts
school-teacher.  She went there several years
ago, nearly dead with consumption.  She now
teaches the village school, superintends the
Sunday school and the W. C. T. U., and is the
force behind every good word and work.


OBITUARIES.

	Died at Alpine, Arizona, on the 28th of June 1889, after
a painful illness of six weeks duration, Lois Emily, only
daughter of Lois Hamblin and Hubert Burk.
	Deceased was born Jan 1. 1876.  She was a regular at-
tendant of the Sabbath School, Y. L. and Primary
Associations, and held the office of Treasurer in the
Sabbath School and Primary.
	Her parents have the sympathy of their many friends in
this sad bereavement, this being the fifth time they have
been called to mourn the loss of a dear one taken from
their little flock
	The remains of her grandfather Jacob Hamblin, were
removed from Pleasanton, during her illness, to be in-
terred in this place.  She often expressed a desire to be
well enough to attend his funeral, but was called home
before the arrival of the remains.
	Just previous to her death a holy peace seemed to per-
vade her tired being, and she spoke in endearing terms to
her departed Grandfather as if he were present, and closed
her weary eyes in sweet slumber to awake no more till the
great last day, when we all hope to meet the dear
ones gone before
								E. B C.

	Died in Teasdale Ward August the 4th, 1889.  Lovina
C. Pritchett, beloved wife of Thomas M. Pritchett and
daughter of Thomas and Ann Heninger, born at Burks
Garden, Farzwell Co., Virginnia.  Was Baptized a mem-
ber of the Church of Latter-day Saints Sept. 1862, gathered
with the Saints, Sept. 1866.  Received her blessings in the
House of God in 1868.  Sister Lovina has had delicate
health for years; was the mother of four living children, was
in every way worthy of the name of a Latter-day Saint.  A
true, faithful, loving wife, an affectionate mother, a kind
friend.
	On the first of this month she was present at Relief
Society, the meeting having been held at the house of a
friend, where she was visiting, for her convenience.  She
was full of faith in the principles of the Gospel and lived
consistent with the same; died as she had lived in hope of
a glorious Ressurrection with the just, leaving a daughter,
and loving husband who cherish her memory and mourn
their loss.
									J. S. C.


TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
	EAST,  WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
		AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS,	J. V. PARKER,
	City pass. Agt.	Div. Pass. Agt

R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES,  RUCHES,  EMBRODERIES,
FANS,  GLOVES,  PARASOLS,
RIBBONS,  COLLARS,  TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DR.   MAGGIE   C.   SHIPP
		Will commence a class in
	OBSTETRICS AND NURSING
		On Monday, October 14,  '89.
Course, Six Months.    Tuition,  $50.00.
	For further particulars address
				DR.  M.  C.  SHIPP,
					34  S. Seventh East Street.

	DAVID  JAMES  &  CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 18			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1889.			No. 8.


CONTENTS.
	Hephzibah—A story.  Women Druggists in
Buffalo.  Notes and News.  Picnic in the Woods
—Aunt Em.
	EDITORIAL.  Notice of Conference.  Relief
Society Conference.  Justice to the People.  Edi-
torial Notes.  Half a Century.  Eighteenth Ward
Seminary.  Self Government.—Mary E. L. Neff.
Good Advice.—Miss Mary Anderson.	
	The Autorcrat at Eighty.  Mrs. Humphrey
Ward.—The Oregonian.  R. S. Reports.  Their
Ages.—Wm J. Bok.  Kossuth Growing Old.
Miscellaneous.
	POETRY.—My Baby.—H. The Kings Flower.—
Augusta Joyce Crocheron.  Thank God.—Lula.
That Lullaby.—Woodina. The Baby on Her
Arm.—Mrs. E. L. Ballard.
	In Memoriam.  Obituary.


MY BABY.

Loose the little, clinging garments,
	Smooth the curly, golden hair,
Wrap the soft, long gown around you
	Kneel to say the evening prayer,
			My Baby.

Sweetly kiss each waiting loved one
	Bid a happy fond good night;
In your little bed so cozey,
	Softly slumber 'til the light.
			My Baby.

May the angels guard you darling,
	Bring you sweet and happy dreams,
That the night [-]ay be as cheering,
	As the morning's bright sunbeams,
			My Baby.
	
Oh how bright seems all around you
	Even in the darkened room,
For your sweet and happy nature
	Is like sunshine after gloom,
			My Baby.

Oh my own, sweet little darling,
	May angels gifts to thee impart,
That your life with joys laden,
	Joys return to mother's heart,
			My Baby.				H.


THE KING’S FLOWER:
One early morn, from country fields
	The market gardeners came
With red ripe melons, “roasting ears”
	And fruits with cheeks aflame,
And one great wagon stopped, while spoke
	The good wife at my gate,
"Will you have something ma’am today,
	The things are all first rate?”

“I think I will; but would you like
	A handful of my flowers?
I’ll gather chiefly buds, they’ll bloom
	At home in a few hours."
“O, thank you!" Then she looked around
	As though she something sought,
And then knelt down beside a plant
	Her earnest gaze had sought.

She clasped her bands just like a child
	That finds some joyous thing,
And in her smile and native tongue
	Strange gladness seemed to spring;
Then while I watched in silence, she
	Looked up tears in her eyes—
“I smelled it and I’ve found it here—
	Ah me, such glad surprise!"

[Column Two]
“And do you love this flower, then,	
	For it seems dear to you?
It is the fragrant mignionette
	And neither rare or new."
“Yes, lady, but in mine own land
	This flower's loved by all,
It grows in windows small and low
	And round fine houses tall;

“And those who cannot buy a plant
	And dare not ask for one,
Can go and breathe its perfume sweet
	Out in the warm bright sun,
For in long beds inside the fence
	That guards the royal grounds.
And in sweet patches o’er the lawns
	This sweet green plant abounds.

“There rich and poor alike may reach
	And pluck at certain hour.
These fragrant sprays. He loves them so,
	We call them—‘the King’s flower.’"
“Now tell me if you know this one
	So modest, small and blue."
Again she smiled: “Oh all the world,
	I think knows this one too;”

“I don’t know what you call it here"
	She said as her eyes met me,
“But in my land so far away
	We call it, “don’t forget me!"
“Oh, gather all you wish my friend.
	And, see these small plants, too.
That spring in plenty from the seed,
	I’ll take them up for you."

I doubt if maiden blooming bright
	And decked with love [---] care
A brighter smile of happiness
	Upon her life could wear.
She placed both plant and flowers wit
	Safe place from sun or shower,
Whisp'ring as though to some loved child:
	"Mine own,—Mine King's own flower!"

Smile at the country teams and folk
	But I shall ne'er forget
The lover's own 'forget me not'
	And the King's Mignionette.
And when I see that wagon pass
	There comes o'er me again,
A dream of romance, royal grace,
	And she—queen of the train.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Bountiful, August, '89.


HEPHZIBAH.
				VII.
	In youth’s sweet Spring time, O, how grand and true,
		The aspirations of a fresh young heart;
	And the bright vision, fancy opes to view,
		Strange forecasts of the future life impart.

	While Mrs.  H. was at the seaside with her
little daughter, she tried to make a study of the
disposition and temperament of the child, and
her maternal love for the little one deepened
more and more, as she carefully watched her
day by day and found her exceptionally bright
and knowing.  She took counsel with herself in
the matter, and considered it well, for she saw
plainly that an ordinary education would not
satisfy the intense longing, that Hepsie mani-
fested for something beyond what seemed to be
quite sufficient for her young companions.  The
mother learned from Hepsie herself in a sort of
desultory way, (for she would not have thought
it proper to tell her she had such wonderful
ideas of confidence and friendship) that the
[Column Two]
older girls who had been Hepsie’s classmates 
at school, were meditating  matrimony,  and
thought more of making love, than of grammar
or mathematics; the child’s mind reached so far
beyond her years, she feared lest she might be-
come involved in some of the plots and schemes
these giddy school girls, thought daring and
romantic.  She scarcely saw her way clear to
remove her either, for there had been a sort of
understanding when Hepsie left the parsonage,
that she should return to attend the same school
the ensuing year.
	Sometimes fate opens the way when all our
planning seems of no avail, and so it proved in
this matter which to Mrs. Hathaway was a very
serious one.  “Mrs. Grovsener was ill,” the
news came in a letter from home while they
were still at the seashore; “the minister was in
despair;” much as Mrs. H. dreaded the effect
of the news upon Hepsie, she felt it was abso-
lutely her duty to tell her, all she had learned
about Mrs. Grovsener’s condition.  She did not
manifest the least sorrow herself, taking pains
to conceal her agitation; but Hepsie to her utter
astonishment recieved the message as though
she had known it beforehand; after a few
moments of thoughtfulness, she said as though
talking to herself, “that ends my life at the dear
old parsonage;” and immediately in a burst of
emotion her tears falling fast-—she ejaculated
between her sobs “I knew she couldn’t endure
it much longer, he has killed her by inches,”
then as though a new thought had arisen, she
remembered the minister’s utter dependence
upon his wife, and turning to her mother she
almost screamed in her excitement, “who’ll
help him with his sermons now?  The whole
congregation will find out how it was he could
preach such sermons: O, I knew it was because
a woman gave him her thoughts and polished
every sentence with her beautiful sentiments;
women do most of the polishing in this world
don't they?"  "It is scarcely proper for a little
child to judge one like him you do not know
all,” replied the mother, “besides Mrs.  Groves-
ner is not dead, only ill, and may soon recover,
let us hope so at least.” “But she will die I
knew I should never see her dear face again,
every one that I set my heart on dies; my dear
old grandpa, he was a man among men not at all
like the Rev. Mr. Grovsener” “I am glad you
have a standard of excellence to look up to in
mankind, but you have only spoken of two men
and in your opinion one of them is all good,
and the other all bad, that will not do, there is
no perfection on this earth, but most people
have more good than evil in their natures. How
strange it seems that you should set up a
standard at your age for ministers to live up to.
They are the ones to teach us the way of life
and salvation,” was the mother’s reply.
	“Mrs. Grovsener used to say to her husband
that he preached too much about eternal pun-
ishment, and too little about heaven; O I’ve
heard them discussing the sermons over and
over again, she wanted him to tell the people
about love, the love of God, and of the blessed
Savior; but he always wanted to have “strong
doctrine to give to poor sinners on the Sabbath
day” so he said. “I tell you mother she knew
as much about the Bible as he did, and a great
deal more about love, she often told me how
dearly her father loved her, and what a good
man, and true Christian he was; “not at all
like my husband,” she would say, and then
explain after “that he was more tender-hearted
than most men. He was a minister too, now


[Column 1]
I remember and it was arranged that she must
marry a minister though she was opposed to it, 
she told me so in confidence; and often when
we have been alone she has talked to me in 
such a way that I felt sure she had at some 
time in her life a real sweetheart;"
	Mrs. Hathaway allowed Hepsie to talk on 
about ministers, and love, and like topics on 
which her mind seemed to rest, thinking it
would keep her from grieving, and all the time 
she was learning more of the girl's real nature, 
though she knew perfectly well the story of 
Mrs. Grovsener's life, before and after marriage, 
and she did not wonder that her daughter put
this and that together, until she wove a pretty
little romance out of the life of her dear
friend. 
	Before many days another letter came, say-
ing Mrs. Grovsener had passed away; and as if
to confirm Hepsie's words it also stated that the
Rev. Erasmus Grovsener was so overcome with 
grief, that he would give up his position at N.
—and go away from his home, and all that re-
minded him of his "dearly beloved Deborah."
Hepsie mourned sincerely in a childish way, 
and bemoaned the necessity of leaving the
school and her particular friends to whom she
was so devotedly attached to go among
strangers again, for her mother who had already
thought the matter over informed her it would
be farther away than before. Hepsie was
partly prepared for the message that came, on
account of the presentiment she felt the morn-
ing she left the parsonage; and yet she had
tried to believe there was nothing in it. 
	At the seaside she had not made any new
friends, in fact they were not her style, the
little girls of her own age were not at all com-
panionable, and the older ones were occupied
with other matters than noticing children. In-
deed Mrs. H. herself did not care for the 
society of the fashionable people who as-
sembled there, she was altogether too, matter of
fact, and as soon as she felt Hepsie had some-
what recruited was only anxious to get away. 
The eldest daughter of the family had married
while Hepsie was at school and Mrs. H. in-
tended to entrust the child [---]
Mrs. Grovsener was gone, and meantime made
inquiries by letter what school advantages there
were in the town for Hepsie, and having re-
ceived word that there was a Select School for
young ladies, she felt satisfied it would be a
suitable place, and that the influence would be
favorable, as there would be less flirtation and
coquetting among the girls, although Mrs. H.
was not very well posted upon what had tran-
spired in this regard at the High school. In
New England in that day, Select Schools for
young ladies only, which included little girls
in short dresses, and which by the bye were
worn until they were fifteen years old, and
Young Ladies' Seminaries were considered the
most "proper" places for girls; colleges were 
not then open to young women, in fact it was
just about the advent of the woman's rights
period—and right here we might add that
Hepsie's mother was already tinged with the
ideas, that have since become so pronounced and
have produced such radical changes in matters
pertaining to women.
	Poor little Hepsie was very timid about go
ing to strage places, and she had never seen her
sister's husband, and indeed did not know any-
thing of the town which was a much larger one
and in another county, but her mother was 
quite imperative as to her going and she knew
perfectly well that it would be no use to at-
tempt to dissuade her when once she
made up her mind.
	Hepsie wrote letters to the girls of the
"Club" telling them that she was going to 
another school and that owing to the changes
at the Parsonage, she was not to return to N. 
at all, and bidding them a fond farewell such
as school girls 'love to linger over,' and promis-

[Column 2]
ing eternal fidelity she felt she was ready for
anything. She did not expect answers to these
letters, and in those days postal service was a 
very different affair to what it is now, they did 
not make railroad connections the mail went
by stage, and really Hepsie only knew of one
Railroad, and that line run from Boston to 
Albany. Mrs. H. did not like to take Hepsie
home at all, not even for a visit, but she saw
no other way, some needful preparation must
be made, and it was impossible for her to re-
main away from home any longer, and the
visit to the seaside had been prolonged for
Hepsie had begged for one more day until a 
week had elapsed and it was nearly time to 
commence the fall term of school. 
	Hannah (the married sister) was delighted at 
thought of Hepsie's coming, and could scarcely 
wait the time even though she was a young bride
just gone to housekeeping. Mrs. H. gave
Hannah strict instructions concerning her
little sister, telling her she had far outgrown in
ideas the viliage girls of her own age and how
important it would be to advise her in the
choice of books and companions, and impress
her with exalted ideas of what would be ex-
pected of her in the future. 
	The journey home was without any partic-
ular incident, and once there the busy mother
was involved in household duties, and Hepsie
had a grand opportunity to roam over the
hills and through the woods and fields, and
first of all she wended her way to the old
homestead, where she would sit for hours under
the sweeping boughs of the great elm trees
pondering on the past and dreaming of the
future; many were her childish fancies, and
girl-like some how a hero of her own ideal
creation was always intermingled with the
years to come. The house was occupied now
by cousins, three or four times removed, so
she had an opportunity to go in and out at
will, though neither her mother or any of the
family had crossed the threshold since the day 
of the old Major's funeral. The idea of pull-
ing down had been abandoned as it was only
valued as real estate. Hepsie unlike the others
[---] in an ideal realm, and clung with fond-
ness and tenacity to the old home and all its
attractions.  "Strange" her mother remarked
when she came to notice it, "she has so much
ideality that I am completely at a loss to know 
what to do with her, she cannot be dealt with
the same as the other children and I am puzzled
to know what course to pursue."  But Hepsie
meantime was catching butterflies and enjoy-
ing the summer hours and sunshine, and was 
happy in the very consciousness of living in
the beautiful world.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN DRUGGISTS IN BUFFALO.

Editors Woman's Journal:
	The Buffalo Medical College has of late
years opened its doors to women.  Two of
these have taken the junior course in pharmacy
and have bought out a drug store, centrally
situated, and are now its sole proprietors and
managers.
	The idea of women conducting a drug store
was so novel, especially to an Euglishman,
that it was thought worthy of a notice in one
of the London journals.  An inteaview with
one of the proprietors, Miss R. Belle Mosher;
formerly of Hornellsville, N. Y., disclosed the
fact that neatness, tact and exactness, three
essentials to successful druggists, are largely
possessed by women, and that there is a grow-
ing demand for women druggists, just as there
is for women physicians.
	The sign Bouteyne & Mosher now adorns the
door of the oldest drug store in the city of
Buffalo, whose establishment dates back fifty
years.
								Ex


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The first use of a locomotive in this country
was in 1829.

	Miss Margarett Elliott Francis is editor of
The Trained Nurse, Buffalo, N. Y.

	The National Conference of Charities and
Corrections held its session in San Francisco.

	Miss Ottilie Thomas, stenographer and type-
writer, is said to be the only American girl in
charge of an exhibit at the Paris Exposition.

	Dr. Louise Fisk Bryson, a young physician
of New York, read a paper before the Social
Science Association on "The Dangerous Classes
and the Modern Doctor."

	Mrs. Annie Jenness-Miller will make an ex-
tended tour through the New England States
this fall in the interest of dress-reform—the
art of comfortable and artistic dressing.

	Mrs. Emma D. E. N. Southworth, the story-
writer, is now seventy-two years of age, and
although still bright and active, requires con-
stant attention, owing to defective eye-sight.

	Elizabeth Stuart Phelps-Ward has estab-
lished at Gloucester, Mass., a fisherman’s read-
ing-room, with newspapers and games.  She
has also founded several coffee-rooms at the point.
	
	Men have accused the women who are fear-
lessly demanding equal rights for their sex, of
every thing but one.  They have never accused
them of being weak-minded.—Mrs. Josephine
K. Henry in Southern Journal.

	Susan B. Anthony has written to Mayor
Grace of New York, suggesting that one of
the permanent buildings of the World's Fair
be set aside to women, for an exhibit of their
work.  "While the men of the country," she
says, "shall rear temples in honor of Colum-
bus, it will surely be most fitting for the
women to celebrate the virtues of Queen
Isabella."

	Miss Mary L. Seymour, editor of the Busi-
ness Women's Journal, advices women to wear
a dress with seven pockets.  Four of these are
in the vest, one for the watch, one for a pen-
cil, two for car-tickets and small change.
Under one of the panels on the right side is a
long pocket for the purse and handkerchief.
The pockets for memorandum-book and card-
case are tucked away in the drapery behind.
When Mrs. Seymour has another dress made,
she proposes to add an eighth pocket on the left
side for keys and miscellaneous belongings.

	In New Mexico a convention to form a State
Constitution met at Santa Fe on the 3d inst.
Before it had been in session a week the ques-
tion of woman suffrage came up upon numer-
ous petitions sent in by the women of the
Territory.  Several county conventions also
had passed resolutions in its favor.  On the
10th inst. a majority of the convention refused
to permit the incorporation of a woman suf-
frage clause in the elective franchise article.
The woman suffragists endeavored to delay
action, but an adverse report of the committee
was finally adopted.

	The Woman Suffrage Party's State Com-
mittee met at No. 52 University Place, Mr.
Hamilton Willcox presiding, Aug. 29, and
decided to hold its State Convention at Sara-
toga, Oct. 2 and 3.  Mrs. M. Louise Thomas,
the distinguished philanthropist and orator,
president of the Woman's Centenary Associa-
tion, and ex-president of Sorosis, was elected
president of the Committee instead of Dr.
Clemence S. Lozier, deceased Mrs. Thomas
accepted the post.  Geo.  Pellew, nephew of
John Jay, was chosen secretary, in place of
Charles K. Whipple, removed from the State.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THANK GOD.

Thank God for Tears, which as the genial rain
Refreshes earth, so rests the weary brain;
Bright, blessed tears, of gladness or of grief,
To o'er-charged nature bringing quick relief.

Thank God for Dreams, in which our loved ones come
From fairer homes, and make less burthensome
Life's weary longings, and its weight of care,
Which we must carry till we join them there,

Thank God for Love, the purest, holiest thing
Which blesses earth, or hope or bliss can bring;
Dear friendship's smile, affection's tender tone,
And all the sweetness which to Love is known.

Oh thank, and praise Him ! for the sacred Light
Of Truth, to guide our drifting souls aright;
By which all tests may safely be withstood—
Thank God for all things beautiful and good!
									LULA.


THAT LULLABY. 

"Bye low bye," I can hear her sing, 
	Dear little mother mine!
Back and forward the rockers swing, 
	Deep in my heart the words entwine,  
	"O, Bye low baby bye"

Sweet is the voice, as turtle dove, 
Crooning the song of mother-love; 
Told is a story, heard on high,
In the artless words, of 'bye low bye."

Long are the days since last I lay
	Close to her heart so true. 
Beset by storms the thorny way, 
	Many a cloud, and little blue
Has shone across my sky,
	Since hushed by that “bye low bye."

O! for the days, when in her arms,
	Sooth'd by that lullaby, 
Safe from the world and all its harms, 
Rocked to test, on mother's breast, 
	I heard that "bye low bye!"
							WOODINA.
June 2, 1889.


THE BABY ON HER ARM.
MRS. E. L. BALLARD.
Surrounded by an unbroken forest
It stood—a cabin of the humblest type.
Windows it had none,
Its only door, to admit light and sun,
Wide open; a spinning-wheel within
And a cradle.
She came and stood in the door
And looked after his departing form,
A half-spun roll in her hand.
And trailing behind her on the floor
The twisting, twirling thread of yarn.
The wheel in motion—the baby on her arm.

Long since the noon-day heat had
Sapped up the lushy essence of summer
Morn; and where wet ferns bow and weep,
And purling waters play and leap
In the braided wilderness, the echoing song
Of the thrush rang. “And the sun on the cabin floor
Short shadows cast
With cheek flushed and warm
She came and gazed down the leafy aisle,
Then passed through the open door
And out to the falling waters.
An empty bucket in her hand—the baby on her arm.

Above their fellow-trees in the forest
The spired forms of the hickory towered,
Casting, as the purple evening closed around,
Shapely shadows on the open ground
About the cabin. Shy birds chattered in the
Bunched leaves, and the odor of scented roses
Came out of the wilds.
She came and stood in the door,


And smiled gladly as he approached;
And trailing behind her on the floor
A rolling ball of yarn,
A half-knit sock in her hand—the baby on her arm.
									Selected.


PICNIC IN THE WOODS.

	Early in the morning the party of a dozen
and more left town in open vehicles and on
horseback well equipped for fishing hunting
and feasting; and all in a jolly good humor, on
pleasure bent, though there had been two or
three disappointments, from different causes
before starting, and one break down before we
reached the foot of the first hill; but as the
horses stopped when the wheel ran off, and no
one was hurt, or even thrown out—it was
looked upon as a very lucky accident even if it
did hinder us for a couple of hours.
	Up in this Northern Territory there is not
too much sunshine even in August, and from
the recent fires there is still smoke in the air.
Our road lay where the woods are almost con-
tinuous on both sides of the way though it
winds round and round the mountains, yet
there were traces at intervals of the terrible
fires that have been devastating this beautiful
reigon of country. The horses were spirited
and the ride with the woodland odors around
us was refreshing. On and on we wound, up
and down, in and out, only occasionally seeing
a miner’s log cabin until finally reaching an
open glade, where there were a few dwellings
and a pretentious quartz mill, running briskly
with a good supply of water, and farther up the
mountain stream we were told was a good sub-
stantial saw mill, in working order. This was
once, only a short time ago, the prosperous
town of Osborne; and a mile or more further
on was Eagle where in the Spring of 1884
there were 6,000 people. It is now a deserted
hamlet with only a few families; there are
several such deserted places round about here.
The Eagle river supplies water for the mills,
and other purposes and is a pretty winding
mountain stream, making a charming variety
in the scenery. Occasionally we were told that
the road was much more picturesque before the
recent fires, which have been very fierce and
terrible, though along this road there had been
more of what is termed back fires, running up
the mountain on the other side and down on
this, and fires do not rage so fiercely running
downward as when climbing upward.
	There is still what the Westerners would call
“a smart sprinkle” of pine trees and shrubbery
though the black stumps and fallen trees
burned to cinders are not altogether hidden
here and there is the mountain ash with its rich
clusters of bright red berries, and Elder bushes
covered with the ripe luscious blue-berries;
these diversified the scenery.
	There are many spruce and fir trees among
the pines, with  a few hemlocks and other
varieties, but it is almost entirely a forest of
dark tall pines, through which the wind sings
soft lullabies, and anon sighs mournfully, as a
funeral requiem for the dead, then perhaps
shrieks, moans, cries piteously, or changing
again fairly howling in majestic fierceness.
But notwithstanding the song of the pines so
delightfully sympathetic we journey on for the
Major by whose side I am sitting is very loqua-
cious, and has an agreeable, deep sonorous
voice; and he tells me many interesting things
of Mexico and other countries he has visited
and coming back to the present, of his “well-
made scheme,” now in progress of a bed rock
flume, which matter I will not here explain,as
this party is a social affair and not an industrial
enterprise.
	After driving about ten miles we come to a
beautiful mountain river the North Fork of
the Coeur d’Alene and in a clearing a camp is
in sight;—a lone fisherman on the rocks is

[Column 2]
hauling in the fish, much to the discomfiture of
some of the ladies, but totally unheeding, fishes
on and on.
	By the large white tent sits a young woman
at perfect ease, as though there were no
disturbing elements in all the world; two men
are busy making preparations for our  coming.
We unloaded some distance away as it would
have been impossible to drive nearer and the
provisions etc., were put in a skiff and some of
the party also went in the boat, I preferred to
walk even at the risk of crossing difficult places
on logs. It was a delightful day and the river
was lovely indeed and looking across it at the
tall cotton woods and very old pines all the way
up the high mountain side reminded one of
those immortal lines.
		“This is the forest primeval
		The murmuring pines and the hemlocks
		Bearded with moss, and in garments green."

	The view was most inspiring but we were a
party and one is expected on such occasions to
be social and not sentimental, to join in the
conversation and help amuse and entertain.
One or two of the ladies and gentlemen took
the fishing rods to try their luck, and one of
the young ladies marched up the river with a
gun, followed by a slender,genteel young man,
just from New York City, whom the gentlemen
designated as a “tenderfoot.”    Hammocks
were swung, magazines brought out and the
rest of us were left to follow our own inclina-
tions, and as the company was composed of
men of military fame and legal ability, the
ladies were glad to listen. There were two
Majors a Colonel and a General, three or four
lawyers and a Judge and of course others equally
brilliant if not titled.
	It was soon time for refreshments however,
and a fire was kindled in the middle of a pile
of rocks; and fish [---] and coffee made and
the cloth spread, and the guests gathered
around, partaking with a relish the tempting
viands.
	Afterwards we gathered wild flowers, ferns
and boughs of evergreen, and as the sky
darkened we began to think of turning our
faces homeward. The horses were harnessed
the things put into the boat and we wended our
way across the rough places after bidding good-
bye to the grey-haired General and Mrs.
Vickors, who remained at the camp,  having
one down there for a few days hunting and
fishing. Before we started the rain was pour-
ing, and we were really unprepared, as the
morning had been very fine, but the ladies had
the use of the men’s hunting coats and what
parasols had been taken out were put to good
use; but a sorry sight we were to gaze upon.
We were all glad of the rain nevertheless, and
hoped it would effectually extinguish the fires,
that were still burning in places on the
Mountains and deep down at the roots of many
trees; but as we came towards home we saw
two tall trees blazing fiercely though the rain
was pouring in torrents. We felt sure the
flames could not hold out long and so com-
forted ourselves and drove on. The party
were all in fine spirits, a merry crowd; it had
been a most delightful day for the writer, meet-
ing new people, seeing new places, hearing
good stories well told, and listening to the
music of nature’s voices, and quietly commun-
ing and forming pictures in her mind to be
framed hereafter and set in the halls of
memory.
							AUNT EM.
	Murray, Idaho August 31, 1889,


Mrs. Allen Hamilton, a sister of Congress-
man Holman, of Indiana, who died recently
at Fort Wayne, bequeathed $1,000 to the
cause of woman suffrage, the money to he held
in trust by Mrs. Lucy Stone and Susan B.
Anthony.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	- 		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah	Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.	No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: 	Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City 	Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

Salt Lake City, 	-	-	September 15,	1889.


NOTICE.

	The Sixtieth Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, will
commence at 10 o’clock, on Friday morning,
October 4th, 1889, in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake
City.
	The officers and members of the Church are
cordially invited to be present at the meetings.
				WILFORD WOODRUFF,
				GEORGE Q. CANNON,
				JOSEPH F. SMITH,
						First Presidency.

		RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The first Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter
day Saints will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, Salt Lake City, on Monday October 7th,
commencing at 10 a. m.
	A cordial invitation is extended to the Stake
Presidents of the Relief Society and all officers
and members thereof, and also the brethren to at-
tend the meetings.
				ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
								President.
				JANE S. RICHARDS,
				BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
								Counselors.


JUSTICE TO THE PEOPLE.

	The course taken and the haste made by Presi-
dent Harrison in removing from office Democrats
because of their politics and not on account of
any inefficiency or lack of duty, is considered by
men of large experience who are not partisans as
anything but laudable. It does not bespeak for
him the magnaminity of character that would be
expected in the Chief Executive of the nation
whose position gives him the power to show him-
self above petty distinctions and partisanship.
Executive and Judicial work is delayed and
weakened when able men are removed from
office who have become thoroughly acquainted
with their duties, and surroundings, and new men
appointed, novices perhaps, simply upon some
one’s recommendation or preference hundreds or
thousands of miles away, and who might have
a selfish or malicious object in view. That the
President is urged in this matter by prominent
and influential men of his party is true, but the
people of these United States of all parties ex-
pect better things of the President of this great
and free Republic.
	At the Republican Convention of Iowa recently
Hon. John M. Irwin Pres, of the Convention
made the remark. “The bounden duty of
Benjamin Harrison, by the grace of the Re-


publican party President of the United States is
to have none but Republicans on guard anywhere
and to have nowhere in this broad land any Dem-
ocrat in any official position high or low.”
	In the three states Ohio Pennsylvania and Iowa
this is the official representative action and
declaration. The man who stands at the head of
a great nation like this one is not the representa-
tive of a party alone but of a people, who expect
justice and equity and not a one sided adminis-
tration. If such rules are to be applied how can
the people be equal? we Americans talk a great
deal about freedom and equality, and the constitu-
tion of our country guarantees it, but there is a
a failure in the spirit and action of the thing
somewhere, and perhaps one solves the problem
in one way and one in another; but certainly
Pres. Harrison is not following out the pattern of
Our Father who sends the rain on the just and
on the unjust for they are all his children.
	According to our understanding Pres. Harrison
is the President of the people of the United
States, including all parties, and all classes and
women, as well as men, tho’ they are not supposed
to have any politics of any kind, and very few
rights or privileges, except to stay at home and
learn of their husbands if they have a home, and
what if they have not? why then to earn their
bread by the sweat of their brow the same as men
do with out the right to assert themselves; or en-
joy the equality in reference to remuneration for
their labor, that is given to men the country over.
	There will be an opportunity next winter when
the Woman Suffrage Convention is held in
Washington of ascertaining the views, opinions
and willingness of the President towards woman
suffrage or equal political rights for men and
woman, but judging from what has transpired, the
woman of the nation would have to bind them-
selves to vote the Republican ticket, if they ex-
pected his influence or support towards obtaining
unconditional suffrage.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	On the 7th of this month a number of the
sisters paid their respects to Sister Presindia L.
Kimball it being her birthday anniversary. The
guests numbered fifty or more and they came
laden with good things, and with presents in
commemoration of a day which they keep annually
in an appropriate way. Sister Presindia has now
entered upod her 80th year, having been born in
1810. She is a woman of remarkable power, and
wonderful experiences, a fine presence; and
possessing many of the gifts of the Gospel in a
rare degree. Her name is known throughout all
Israel for her good works and ministrations, par-
ticularly to the sick and distressed in body or
mind. Although not present at the birthday
party we extend the most sincere congralutations
to Sister Kimball and trust her usefulness may
continue yet many years to come.

	The September number of “The Answer” pub-
lished in the interests of the “School of Journal-
ism,” at Detroit, Michigan has been received and
is an interesting paper. Something out of the
usual order and a woman’s enterprise. Miss Clara
Selleck Editor. She is spoken of as a young wo-
man of ability, and certainly the one number we
have seen speaks well for the management of the
paper. Among the patrons of this school of
journalism as published in its columns we noticed
the names of some of the prominent women in
literature and newspaper role. Miss Rose Eliza-
beth Cleveland, sister of Ex-President Cleveland,
Holland Patent, New York, Mrs. Dr. Bennett,
Chicago, Ill., Mrs. Cora Wheeler, Boston, Mass.,
Mrs. Col. Hallam, Mrs. Mohl, Mrs. C. S. Lock-
wood, Miss McPherson, Judge Harlan, Miss
Snow and others, Washington D. C. If the


School of Journalism is all that it is claimed to be
by the paper which represents it, certainly much
improvement may be positively expected in those
who have opportunities of availing themselves of
its advantages.

	Mrs. A. M. Longshore Potts M. D. a graduate
of the Philadelphia Woman’s College, will lecture
in the Salt Lake Theatre next week as follows,
Monday, Tuesday and Thursday evenings, Sept.
23, 24, and 26, commencing at 8 o’clock. Also
afternoon lectures to ladies only Tuesday,Wednes-
day, Thursday, Friday and Saturday Sept. 24, 25,
26, 27, 28, commencing at 3 o’clock. Saturday
Sept. 28, at 8 p. m. lecture to both sexes on Love,
Courtship and Marriage. We acknowledge
courtesy of invitation. If one can judge by the
press notices of Mrs. Potts it will certainly be
pleasant and instructive as well as entertaining to
hear her speak. Women are so severely criticised
when they appear on the lecture platform that we
really think the Doctor must possess a wonderful
power of fascination or exceptional ability to have
recieved such flattering encomiums of praise and
appreciation from newspaper men. “The Phila-
delphia Press said of her, Mrs. Dr. Potts is
very winning and attractive and always capable of
holding the attention of a refined and intelligent
audience. Many of the follies of mankind were
shown up in a most amusing, crushing, sarcastic
and witty manner by the lecturer, and her audience
was forced to break out frequently in the heartiest
laughter.” New York Herald “She is not
only an able, scientific woman, but a brilliant and
eloquent speaker.” There are other notices we
have seen from journals in America and other
countries, but these are sufficient to show that she
is held in high esteem as a public lecturer, and it
will without doubt be a great intellectual treat to
listen to her persuasive eloquence.


HALF A CENTURY.

	A very large party of ladies and gentlemen as-
sembled at the residence of Mrs. Sarah Jane
Cannon at the Cannon Farm on Wednesday
evening September 11, to celebrate her birthday
anniversary. It was an unexpected surprise and
an appropriate and telling acknowledgement of
their love and esteem for the honored lady. The
husband was necessarily absent, being excused by
the Edmund’s Law from any participation in the
festivities of the party. President Woodruff and
other distinguished guests however honored the
occasion by their presence, and the evening was
passed in chatting, feasting and so on. A num-
ber of congratulatory addresses were made by
the guests and some written articles read, among
them a letter from the absent husband expressing
his appreciation and kindly feeling and the cir-
cumstances that compelled his absenting himself
from the bosom of his family even at a time of
rejoicing. It is needless to add that there were
many gifts presented and everything passed off
pleasantly. The affair was we are informed under
the direct management of Dr. E. S. Barney who
should also be congratulated on its success.


EIGHTEENTH WARD SEMINARY.

     We acknowledge receipt of Circular of the
Latter-day Saints Seminary of the Eighteenth
Ward for the first Academic Year 1889--1890.
	It is very gratifying to know that this people
have practically awakened to the importance of
having schools wherein definite religious in-
struction is given, and special classes for that
purpose are organized in each department. The
idea of the Bible being excluded from the public
schools, may be American, as many arrogantly
proclaim, but it is not Godlike and will have a
tendency to produce a race of infidels.


We hail with joy the advent of Latter-day
Saint schools and colleges and feel that it is an
inspired movement which will result in great
good to the youth of Zion and in its interests at
home and abroad. The schools already es-
tablished where religious instruction has been
given have done and are still doing an excellent
work, and many other like institutions in different
parts of the Territory will ere long be in
operation.
	The school building in the 18th Ward which
was dedicated on the 30th of August last was
built by subscription for the very purpose to which
it will now be devoted. “The first term of this
seminary of learning began September 2nd and
will close November 8th.  The second term will
begin November 11, and end January 24.  Third
term will begin January 27, and end April 7th.
Fourth term will begin April 7th and close June
13th.  There will be a vacation from December
24 to January 2.”
	“There will be three departments namely: the
Primary Department, consisting of pupils of the
chart and first reader grades: the Preparatory
Department, consisting of pupils of the second
and third reader grades; and the Intemediate
Department consisting of pupils of the fourth and
fifth reader grades.  As stated special classes in
Theologv will be organized in each department.”
			DISCIPLINARY.
	“This Seminary is under the control of a Board
of Education, elected by rhe Board of Directors
of the 18th Ward Ecclesiastical Corporation.
They select the teachers and provide for the
necessities and general welfare of the school.
	The immediate government and disciplining of
the school rests with the teachers, who will main-
tain order, rather by including principles of
morality and self-respect, than by the infliction of
punishments.
	If a pupil indulges in persistent or wilful diso-
bedience to teachers, or is guilty of immoral or
disgraceful conduct, he will be suspended or ex-
pelled from the school in such a manner as is
decided by the judgment of the teachers, with the
approval of the Board.
	Absence or tardiness should be excused by a
note from the parent to the teacher stating
the cause.
	In case of withdrawal the Principal should be
notified at once, as the pupil’s name will remain
on the register until such report is made.
	A record of each pupil will be kept in such a
manner as to afford a full exhibit of his habits in
regard to attendance, punctuality, deportment and
and preparation of lessons, and at the end of
each term a report of the same will be sent to
the parent or guardian of the pupil.”
				REMARKS.
	The text-books used for the ordinary branches
will be the same as those adopted for the use of
the district schools.
	Parents should consult the teacher before
purchasing books or other school supplies for
their children.
	Parents or guardians will be held strictly re-
sponsible for any damage done to school property
by their children.
	For further information, address
				HORACE CUMMINGS, Principal.
					437 E. Second South St.
		or ROBERT PATRICK, Chairman of Board.
				163 B Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SELF GOVERNMENT.

	This is a subject we all would do well to con-
sider, and inquire of ourselves how far we exercise
the privilege.—
	Government is necessary for the well being of
society, whether exercised by a monarchical,
Republican, or Patriarchal form, but how much


easier it would be for any and all of these differ-
ent governments, if the individuals governed un-
derstood and practiced self government.  How
much easier it would be for the heads of families
if each member of the family practiced self-con-
trol and self-denial, and could with propriety say,
under every circumstance that they could govern
their feelings, thoughts and actions.  This is a
degree of perfection to which we are not likely to
attain in a few days or weeks, though we might
with profit begin at once and see what we can do
with number one.  It is a privilege no one can
take away from us.  This to me is an encouraging
thought, and that no one great or small, rich or
poor can be robbed of this inestinable blessing.
	Then let us try to exercise this privilege and
ask our Heavenly Father to help us every day
and hour to watch ourselves that we may in time
be able to govern and control every thought, and
direct every action and word.  If we depend upon
ourselves alone we will not succeed to any great
extent and if we are not earnest and determined,
we need not expect help from above. The humble
and sincere alone may look for strength and
guidance from our Heavenly Father.  May we all
realize this and live in accordance with his laws,
that we may justly claim a portion of his spirit to
be with us continually to enlighten our minds and
strengthen our resovles to do, and accomplish
every good desire of our hearts.
						MARY E. L. NEFF.
Manuscript Paper Y. L. M. I. A.
	Nephi, Utah.


GOOD ADVICE.

	As I sit and admire these our mountain homes
dearer to us than anything else on earth, I seem
to hear all nature proclaiming peace unto us all,
the low rustling breezes that come now and then
to fan us as we feel the effects of the glittering
rays of the sun, as we toil by the sweat of our
brows to earn bread; then the cool sparkling
streams from which we quench our thirst, whil’st
the birds twitter and sing above us in the leafy
branches.  All seem to whisper in harmony the
voice of peace and quietude, But hark! from afar
comes a sound as of low rolling thunders ’tis the
voice of Babylon.  She is coming, coming into
our very midst.  We all know how our parents
and grandsires came out of her that they might not
be partakers of her sins and iniquities, they left the
world and all its vanities and came to this once
wild desert, where naught but the wild beasts and
savage roamed.  Think with what zeal, strong
hearts, and willing hands, our patriotic fathers
labored to obtain that which was dearer to them
than life, even freedom.
	Behold! also the desert blooming as the rose
under their hard labors, the comfortable homes we
now enjoy, the many stately buildings, houses of
worship, school houses, and places of learning
where we can be taught to become useful men and
women, and honest citizens of this great country
which was once proclaimed to be “The land of the
free and the home of the brave.” But now we
find that the people of this great nation are fast
drawing themselves from that line, they have not
only taken the rights of citizenship from many of
our brethren but they have also disfranchised all
the women of this Territory without just cause so
that they do not enjoy that “perfect freedom and
perfect equality” with man that they should enjoy.
But still we can raise our voices and defend these
rights which a free people should enjoy, and we
can encourage others to strive to maintain that for
which they have struggled so hard.
	Shall we now because we enjoy the fruits of the
labors of the pioneers, stand idly by drifting hither
and thither we care not where, and see our rights
wrested from us by those who have come into our
midst with their smooth tongues and fine speeches


to allure us into their paths, to become as they
are many of them steeped in vice and sin, what
have they done for us, they have brought Babylon
with all her gorgeous displays into our midst and
laid her at our very doors to lead us from the
paths of virtue and honesty in which we have
been taught to tread by those to whom we are al-
ready indebted so much, shall we as I said before
stand idly by and see these things take their
course. I feel that we are all united in saying no;
although we as young sisters cannot as yet do 
much, many of us have true patriotic blood flow-
ing in our veins. Therefore let us arouse our-
selves and encourage the young men to go for,
ward in maintaining their rights and our rights
while we are not allowed to cast a ballot in vot-
ing for honest men, because we cannot afford to
have plotters and schemers to fill public positions
to draw us into their snares of immorality and
bondage as it were, although they appear very
frank and polite in their way. But still we know
we are on the safest side when we unite with those
who are of us, whom we know to be honest, truth-
loving men, men who will establish such rules,
and principles, as will tend to elevate us, and
place us on a higher platform; therefore brethren
we your sisters feel to sustain and encourage you
from our hearts and feel to say to you all go cast
your honest votes for the “People’s Party.”
				MISS MARY ANDERSEN.
	Huntsville, Utah.


“THE AUTOCRAT AT EIGHTY.”

	Oliver Wendell Holmes celebrated his
eightieth birthday at Beverly Farm, August
29th. He received many letters and telegrams
of congratulation among them, a short personal
note from his friend Whittier, in which the
latter expressed his regard and deep regret that
he could not that day grasp his friend by the
hand. Many ladies and gentlemen called and
he received a great many beautiful floral gifts.
The following sketch of Dr. Holmes’ Career is
from the N. Y. Mail and Express.
		DR. HOLMES’ CAREER.
	Dr. Holmes was born in Cambridge, Mass,
and breathed a literary atmosphere from the
day of his birth. When old enough to go away
to school he was sent to the Phillips Andover
Academy. Here he began to make verses by
translating the first book of Virgil’s “AEnoid”
in heroic couplets. In 1825 he entered
Harvard. There he was a frequent contributor
to the college periodicals, and when the ap-
pointments for commencement were given out
Holmes was made the poet. That his standing
in scholarship was excellent is manifest from
the fact that he was chosen a member of the
Phi Beta Kappa Society, which selects its
members from those who stand among the
highest.
	The young graduate found himself famous
within a year after his graduation. Many a
literary man has attracted his first literary
notice in a literary way by a few verses hitting
off some topic at the time uppermost in the
popular mind. In 1830 it was proposed to
break up the old frigate Constitution. One day
there appeared in the Boston Advertiser a pro-
test against such a desecration beginning:
		Ay, tear her tattered ensign down,
		Long has it waved on high.
	The author was O. W. Holmes. The piece
took at once, was copied widely in the news-
papers, circulated in handbills, and saved the
ship.
	Holmes studied law for a year at the Cam-
bridge Law School, but if he did not learn more
of literature than law he at least produced more
in the literary field, for he wrote a number of
humorous pieces, which added to his reputation
as a writer. It was destined that he should be


a physician, however, and, having changed his
mind as to the law, he studied medicine under
Dr. James Jackson, and then spent three years
studying abroad.
	But, while medicine furnished him with work,
literature presented a field for amusement.
The year he received his medical decree (1836)
he published a book containing his poems to
that date.  This volume contained one of the
best-known as well as the most delicate mix-
tures of the comic and the pathetic in all his
pieces, “The Last Leaf.’,
	Dr. Holmes served for a while as professor
of anatomy and physiology at Dartmouth, and
in 1849 filled the same chair in the medical
school at Harvard. While he is not known to
the public as a writer on medical topics, he
gained three of the Boylston prizes for medical
dissertations. They were published together in
1838. Besides these he has published half a
dozen books on medical science.
	When, in 1857, James Russel Lowell began
his work as editor of a new magazine called the
Atlantic Monthly Dr. Holmes was called upon
to put a shoulder to the wheel and start the
new enterprise on the road to popular favor.
He began with a series of papers called “The
Autocrat of the Breakfast Table.” Twenty-
five years before he had begun a series of
articles with that title for the New England
Magazine. The papers not only successfully
launched the magazine, but when published in
book form became the most popular piece of
literary work bearing the author’s name, not
only then but ever afterward. Indeed they
were so fascinating that the public eagerly
absorbed everybody “at the breakfast table”
that Dr. Holmes would write about. “The Pro-
fessor at the Breakfast Table” and “The Poet
at the Breakfast Table” followed “The Auto-
crat,” and are still regarded among the
Doctor’s best works.
	In verse Dr. Holmes has touched very little
that is not especially noted for the sparkling
rather than the poetic. He has written some
pieces, however, in which there is the true
poetic ring. Perhaps the best specimen of this
kind of verse in his works is “The Chambered
Nautilus.” The most marvelous feature, how-
ever, about him is the work which he has been
able to do upon occasion. Let there be a
meeting of his classmates to celebrate their
past in college, a dinner of doctor’s, a supper
of authors, Dr. Holmes would be called upon
to cook up something choice in verse to grace
the literary menu. And when the feast was
set the Doctor’s dish would not only be de-
voured by the classmates or doctors or authors,
but would be seized upou by the whole public.
Indeed many of his choicest pieces were pro-
duced in this way.
	Dr. Holmes, during his long life in literature
wrote only two novels—“Elsie Venuer,” a
study of heredity, and “The Guardian Angel.”
	Beyond his literary work Oliver Wendell
Holmes is known among his friends as a genial
companion and especially as a wit. In his
poetical works, best of all American poets, he
touches the modern taste. Such poets as Will
Carleton, Lowell in his “Biglow Papers,” Bret
Harte, and John Hay are of this school, but
Holmes overtops them all. While the plane
ou which his poems are written is far higher
than theirs. In some there is a depth of mean-
ing unnoticed by the casual reader, but what
remains is so good that it stands of itself. The
“Wonderful One Horse Shay,” for instance,
was written to show a collapse of logical rea-
soning. But few of those who have read it
know this; yet the “One Horse Shay” still lives,
perhaps the most popular of all the Doctor’s
efforts, fortunately for his admirers the
author still lives, and is honored not as a poet,
author, wit, humorist, alone, but as an original
in all these, and as the most genial and lovable
of men.


﻿ WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		MRS. HUMPHREY WARD.

	Everybody knows how Mrs. Humphrey
Ward writes. Many know how she looks, but
few have heard her talk in debate. That she
should do so in Dublin, under circumstances
which enable many friends (Americans, a few
among them) to hear her, will not surprise you
so much when I add that her father is one of
the best known figures in the learned society
of the Irish capital, and is an undisputed
authority upon a large number of important
subjects. The esprit of the various literary
institutions here finds vent in a club known as
the Cosmopolitan. It meets in the apartments
of C. H. Oldham, one of the leading Protest-
ant home rulers. Dublin is one ot the most
delightful of insular cities. Its social life has
all the repose of learned leisure. Nobody
among its scholars is rich. Nearly every man
of note in the higher institutions of learning
is interesting, clever and more or less distinc-
tion in some special pursuit. The wit of the
Irish race, which is said to be declining among
the middle class Irish as  schooling makes
them too literal, flourishes, not without a
flavor of the conservative, perhaps in the
cosmopolitan.
	A walk within an area of a few acres in
Dublin will enable the visitor to see, as they
perform their duties in connection with the
schools, Edward Dowden, the Shakespearean
scholar; Professor Galbraith, Dr. Mahaffy, the
author of various works on social life in
Greece and the “Art of conversation,” who is
now in America; Anthony Traill, the natural
philosopher; Thomas K. Abbott, the Hebrew
scholar; Dr. Robert Ball, the astronomer
royal, and Samuel Haughton, of who Darwin
relates in one of his letters in the “Life” that
he told the Geological Society in Dublin in
1859 that the speculation of Darwin and
Wallace would not be worth notice if it had
not the weight of Lyell’s name supporting its
promulgation. Professor Haughton is. Bourbon
in science as in many other things.
	Lord Dufferin is chancellor of the
Royal university, of which Thomas Arnold is
lecturer on English literature. In the same
institution are Dr. Sigerson, the author of
“Irish Land Tenures” and a volume of ad-
mirable poems. He is also a practicing
physician of eminence, and an ardent nationa
list. One may find here any number of
stories about Burke of “Burke’s Peerage,”
which was written in a little room in this
ancient town; and many lovers of Archbishop
Trench delight in recalling the pleasant hours
spent with that charming man in the years
when he was devoting himself a little to preach-
ing and a great deal to philological recreation.
	Mrs Humphrey Ward was a special guest of
the Cosmopolitan club the other night. She
was accompanied by her father, who is the
second sen of Arnold of Rugby. “Tom
Brown’s” Arnold. Mrs Ward does not very
closely resemble the portraits of her which
have become most familiar. She is not dark,
austere, and acute of face, as might be in-
ferred from the sharp outlines of the black
and white sketches. On the contrary, she is
of that medium type between blonde and bru-
nette which is popularly denominated “fair.”
Her head is not strikingly large; her features
are long and not perfectly regular, expressive
of power and continuity rather than of effemi-
nent dilettantism. Her forehead is pretty well
concealed by the old style of combing the hair
down smoothly on either side. Her hair has a
positive tendency to wrinkle and wave—to
crinkle, rather, like waves under a very gentle
wind.
	Her eyes are full, luminous, and one
would be venturesome to say of what color,
perhaps gray, perhaps chestnut, perhaps brown,
or blue. They are of various hues according
[column 2]
to the external light and the internal occupa-
tion. They look gravely brown when she
thinks long at a time upon the same subject;
they become childishly blue and merry when
the smiles parts the rather full lips (especially
is the upper lips full) and she gives forth a
pleasant, although obviously a restrained laugh.
Her hands, as they escaped now and then from
silken draperies, proved to be large, shapely
and artistic.
	She wore a white gown cut in a way that
may be called a modification of the reigning style.
It was not rigorous directoire, but presented
the favorite long lines of that favorite mode.
Her figure being easily suited, being tall,
pliable, and well proportioned, she would look
well in anything; but her graceful presence
was somewhat hidden by her evening mantle,
which she did not discard, its copious folds
falling around her, sybil-like, as she sat quite
at ease, simple and free from self-consciousness,
yet knowing that she was the cynosure of a
brilliant company. One would not call her
beautiful or even a handsome woman; but she
impresses every one with the dignity, the
strength and the reserve of her intellectual
force, and is as amiable and kindly in manner
as if she were the unknown author of "Miss
Bretherton,” instead of, perhaps, the most
widely known novelist living, and the un-
doubted successor of her illustrious country
woman, George Eliot. I am not sure that the
latter phrase is justified, for Thomas Arnold
went to New Zealand in his youth as an in-
spector of schools, and from that country was
transferred by the British colonial office, of
which he was a subordinate, to Tasmania.
There he married Julia Sorrel, granddaughter
of a former governor, and there Mary Augusta,
their eldest daughter, was born. The relation-
ship between father and daughter, strange to
say, is the foundation of “Robert Elsmere”
the intellectual and moral relationship, for, all
gossip to the contrary, it is true that in the
evolution and devolution of her father’s relig-
ious beliefs the daughter found the genesis of
her hero-preacher. Old Dr. Arnold, it will be
remembered, lived a good part of his august
and beautiful life amid the surroundings and
within the precincts that transferred so large a
number of Oxford scholars to the communion
of Rome. He firmly believed in the divinity
of Christ, although somewhat disposed to
Unitarianism in other matters. He was at one 
time expected to follow Newman, but he
lingered with Keble. One of his sons,
Matthew, became in time the disciple more of
Francis than of John Henry Newman; but
Thomas Arnold, the younger, entered, while in
Tasmania, the Church of Rome. On return-
ing to England he prayed, meditated, and
studied at the oratory in Birmingham, within
the shadow of Joseph Chamberlain’s modest
old home, which he has discarded for a pre-
tentious new one; but after the lapse of a few
years, a portion of the period being spent as
professor in the now defunct Catholic uni-
versity in Dublin, Mr. Arnold discarded the
dogmas of Roman Catholicism and returned
to Oxford, very much in the condition of
another character in the novel, who believed
nothing. It was while he was engaged on his
various text books there that his daughter met
Thomas Humphrey Ward, whose father was
vicar of St. Barnabas’s, King’s square, London,
and who in his younger days was as conserva-
tive in his religious views as he is now indefi-
nite in them. Mrs. Ward assisted him in the
prearation of the critical estimates of many
of the “English Poets,” their colleagues being
Matthew Arnold, Thomas Arnold, Edmund
Gosse, Andrew Lang, George Saintsbury,
Downden, Austin Dobson, Swinburne, the
Dean of Westminister (Stanley), and the late
Lord Houghton. The conversation upon
music and art which so abounds in “Robert


[column 1]
Elsmere” discloses the companionship of Mrs.
Ward with her husband, who is one of the
most accomplished writers on these subjects in
England.
	It was, therefore, as inevitable that Mrs.
Ward should deal with the religious problem
in her first successful book,as that George Eliot,
also cradled in professional religiousness,should
deal with the same perplexing phenomena in
life and conduct. She spoke at the Cosmo-
politan upon the same theme. The subject
nominally under discussion was whether the
world would not be quite as moral without
Christianity. It was chosen in deference to the
distinguished guest. The company would have
been delighted to hear her speak on any sub-
ject; but on one she was eminently fitted to dis-
cuss she showed an obstinate reticence
due in part to the sophistries of some of the
loquacious scholastics present, who are as hair-
splitting in Dublin as their ancestors were in
Paris or Bologna centuries ago; and in part,
perhaps, to a high-bred unwillingness to seem
to make shop of her own work: Her father
spoke readily and effectively, but not with a
view to registering himself on either side of the
proposition. The majority of the speakers were
quite willing to believe that the morality
of Platonism was as pure as that of Christ,
Hellenic culture being a favorite in both old
and the more modern Royal University. The
discussion drifted away from the direct inter-
rogatory and became a more assertive talk, in
which somebody at last aroused Mrs. Ward by
saying that there was no morality left in the
world except among the aristocracy. The
assertion was preposterous, of course, but it
was ingeniously and persuasively made, the al-
leged excess of crime among the lower classes
and the strong Philistinism of the middle
classes being cited in its support. Mrs. Ward
shook her head very emphatically and at last
entered the lists.
	Her voice is clear, sympathetic, and finely
cadenced, the pitch being agreeably variable
and the intonation indicating the careful habit
of thinking clearly before speaking, and of
speaking in the best language and with a deli-
cate sense of voice quality. Her manner is
wholly free from forensic suggestion or didactic
assumptiveness. She might have talked about
the weather in the same musical, colloquial
way. Nor did she appear to be conscious of
saying aught of the least importance, but every
word was listened to with eager attention. She
said in effect that morality was not the exclu-
sive possession of any portion of the world, or
of any class, and pressed, with eloquent but
well restrained vehemence, the point that
throughout the mass of the English people
especially, there is a sturdy and real morality
which does not label  itself aggressively as
Christian or other, but is in aim and in in-
spiration Christian. Without offering any dis-
paraging words in relation to the aristocracy
arid their virtues, it was manifest that she did
not esteem them monopolists of morality in
their day, Christian or other. It was impos-
sible to deduce from her words, which were
happily chosen without strain or affectation,
whether she had any belief on the main ques-
tion under consideration.
	In private conversation Mrs. Ward can be
either gay and humorous—and richly so—or
impressive and refreshing. Her power of con-
versation extends over many topics. She has
essentially an aesthetic rather than a philosophic
or scientific mode of looking at everything, and
I fancy would be liable to apply standards of
taste where more syllogistic logicians would in-
sist upon colder methods of investigation.
When free from the bonds that effect on semi-
pnblic occasions every cultivated woman, Mrs.
Ward is pungent, brilliant and witty; but on
this occasion she seemed to be studying unusual
types of human beings rather than to be con-
[column 2]
cerned in expressing herself. Indeed here re-
serve was noticeable.
	Her father states that she and her family
were simply astonished at the success of her
novel. Wise and devoted counselors, after
reading the manuscript, gravely discouraged
her from attempting to print it. When,
despite their timidity, she found a publisher,
her household and intimate friends, who were
in the secret, expected that it might possibly
attract the attention of a few reviewers. That
it should become, as it still indeed is, the sensa-
tion of years, was and is to them a mystery.
It is confidently asserted that Mrs. Ward will
visit New York next winter.—The Oregonian.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

			MALAD STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Malad
Stake of Zion was held in Malad City on
August 18th commencing at 10, A. M. Pres.
Lucinda Hoskins Presiding. Pres. of Stake
Oliver C. Hoskins and Counselors and several
Members of the High Council were also on the
stand. Meeting opened by singing. "The
morning breaks." Prayer was offered by
Bishop George Stewart. Singing by the
Choir, minutes of last Conference and Stake
Report were read and approved. The Pres. of
the various branches gave verbal reports show-
ing a marked improvement among the sisters,
and a determination to go ahead and live their
religion and keep the commandments of God,
all the sisters had determined to look after the
wants of the poor and visit the sick and see
that they did not lack for the necessaries of
life. Several of the brethren and sisters bore
their testimony to the work of the Lord.
Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing,
Benediction by Counselor Wm. H. Gibbs.
	Afternoon Session: Meeting convened at
2 p. m. Pres. L. Hoskins presiding, after the
usual opening exercises Pres Oliver C. Hos-
kins addressed the Conference, felt happy to see
so many of the sisters assembled in this Con-
ference and to hear the reports from the differ-
ent Wards, exhorted the sisters to stand firm in
their religion and teach their sons and
daughters the principles of the Gospel and
teach them to be prayerful and to honor the
Preisthood and to live in the fear and admoni-
tion of the Lord, said he appreciated the work
of the Sisters knew that the Relief Societys was
doing a good work, gave many other timely in-
structions which were listened to with great
interest by all present. Counselor Wm. H.
Gibbs said he was pleased with the remarks of
the brethren and sisters during this Conference
spoke on the subject of education also the
proper rearing of our children, gave much
good advice and instruction to the sisters.
	Pres. Lucinda Hoskins felt to rejoice in the
instruction we had received during this Con-
ference spoke on several different subjects gave
much good instruction exhorted the sisters to
attend their meetings and be diligent in all
things pertaining to the Church and Kingdom
of God.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Guide us O Though Great Jehovah!"
Benediction was pronounced by Brother Jesse
Dredge.
			ELIZA A. HALL. Stake Sect.

			BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Ladies' Semi annual Confer-
ence eld at St Charles July 13th and 14th
1889. Saturday 10 a. m. Pres Julia P.
Lindsey presiding, Choir sang "Praise Ye the
Lord." Prayer by Wm M. Allred. Choir
sang "I saw a mighty angel fly." Roll of
Stake officers was called, minutes read and ap-
proved, verbal reports from the several
branches were given in the usual order.

[column 2]
	Pres. Lindsey then addressed the congre-
gation on the subject of charity and of per-
forming our different obligations in a manner
that would be satisfactory to ourselves and ac-
ceptable to God. Would like to see each
branch of the Relief Society in Bear Lake
Stake more energetic in sending some one to
report the respective organizations. Refered
briefly to some of the calamities that were now
being visited upon the nations of the earth,
and the importance of living lives of true
Latter-day Saints.
	Coun. E. Collings was the next speaker. She
bore her testimony to the truth of the Gospel,
and made some very encouraging remarks to
those who were striving to live their religion.
Pres. Annie Laker spoke for a short time on
the training of children and the obligations
parents were under to God when he entrusted
children to their care.
	Singing "One by one the sands are running"
&c.
		Benediction by Bishop Matthews.
	Sunday, 2 P. M. July 14th 1889, Pres J. P.
Lindsey presiding, among those who were
seated on the stand were Prest. Wm. Budge
and Bishops J. A. Hunt and R. Calder, Choir
sang "A message from on high." Opening
prayer by Bishop Calder. Choir sang "I know
that My Redeemer lives" &c. Sacrament was
then administered.
	The Statistical and Financial report was
then read by the Stake Secretary. Ready.
Lindsey spoke for a short time, touching upon
many subjects that were of interest to the
Latterday Saints. Dwelt for a short time on 
the subject of storing grain and looking after
the poor.
	Coun. E. Collings refered briefly to some few
items of interest to the Relief Society, and
closed her remarks by asking the blessings of
God upon all who were striving to keep his
commandments.
	John Bagley said it is only by the spirit of
God that we can be fed on such occasions as
these. It is necessary for a mother to under-
stand the Gospel in order that she may teach
it to her children. Refered to the two thous-
and young men spoken of in the Book of
Mormon who were taught certain principles by
their mothers, and if mothers fail to teach
their children correct principles they will be
held accountable.
	Amasa Rich said he had come to meeting to
be fed on spiritual food, spoke of the different
principles taught by those claiming to be
Christians in the world. But we are as
Latterday Saints known, we have the principles
of eternal truth and we should teach them to
our children. Those who go into the world to
teach the gospel should thoroughly understand
its principles. This should be a labor for
mothers, while their children are young to
teach them the principles of truth.
	E. M. Allred felt to rely upon the Spirit
of God to assist him when called to address a
congregation. Had been interested while
listening to remarks of those who had pre-
ceded him. Dwelt for a short time on various
subjects that were of interest to the people.
	Conference adjourned for six months. Sing-
ing by the choir.
		Benediction by Prest. Wm. Budge.
				L. M. RICH, Secretary.


THEIR AGES.

	Sarah Orne Jewett will be forty next Sep-
tember, Humphrey Ward is thirty-eight, Lucy
Larcum is sixty-three,Harriet Prescott Spofford
is fifty-four, Edith M. Thomas is fifty-five,
Marion Harland (Mrs. Terhune) is fifty-nine,
Amelie Rives-Chanler will be twenty six next
August, Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett is
thirty-nine, and she published her first story


when only eighteen, Celia Thaxter is fifty-three,
Mrs. Croly (Jenny June) is fifty-seven, Rose
Terry Cook is sixty-two, Elizabeth Stuart
Phelps-Ward was forty-five in August, Miss
Louise Imogen Guiney is twenty-seven, Con-
stance Fenimore Woolson is forty-one, nobody
ever found out the exact age of Miss Woolsey
(Susan Coolidge), but it is  believed that she
was born in 1845, which would make her age
forty-four, Mrs. Margaretta Wade Deland,
author of “John Ward, Preacher,” is thirty-
one, Mrs. Mary Mapes Dodge is fifty-one, and
Mary Abigail Dodge (Gail Hamilton) is at
least eight years older, though the records are
not quite sure upon this delicate point. To take
some of the most popular of the male authors
who are writing now, F. Marion Crawford is
thirty-five, and he wrote “Mr. Isaacs” when
only twenty seven, Robert Louis Stevenson is
thirty-nine, W. D. Howells is fifty-two, E. W.
Howe, whose ‘ The Story of a Country Town”
made so great a hit, is thirty-five, Bret Harte
is forty-nine, Julian Hawthorne is forty-three,
Richard Malcom Johnson is sixty-seven, and
Rossiter Johnson is forty-nine, Arlo Bates is
thirty-nine, Walter Besant is fifty-one, Thomas
Bailey Aldrich will be fifty-three next Novem-
ber, William Black is forty-eight, William H.
Bishop is forty-two, General Lew Wallace is
sixty-two, and he wrote "Ben Hur” when fifty-
one, John Habberton, the author of “Helen’s
Babies,” is forty-seven, Joel Chandler Harris is
forty one, George W. Cable is forty-four,
Edward Eggleston is fifty-one, and looks fifteen
years older, H. H. Boysen is forty, H. C. Bun-
ner is about thirty-eight, James Anthony
Froude has begun now to write novels at the
age of seventy-one, Frank R. Stockton is fifty-
five, William Hamilton Gibson is forty-eight,
Thomas Nelson Page is thirty-six, James
Whitcomb Riley was born in 1852, James
Payn is fifty-nine, Blander Matthews is thirty-
seven, J. T. Trowbridge is sixty-one, and Jules
Verne is the same age, while Edgar Fawcett
was forty-two on May 26th last.
	Ex.					WM. J. BOK.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT,


KOSSUTH GROWING OLD.

	“Eight hundred Hungarians made a pilgrim-
age to Turin to do homage to Kossuth. They
had a grand banquet at which Kossuth, now
aged eighty-seven, made a speech an hour and
a quarter long, marked with the same great
rhetorical powers that distinguished him of
old. He still mourns the dual government of
the Austrian Empire and the rule of the
Hapsburgs, and declared that he could not
return to his native country so long as it
formed part of the government of Austria.
He is writing his memoirs, though he is so apt
to drop into reveries on past times that the
work goes on very slowly.”


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The gem cannot be polished without friction,
nor the man perfected without trials.

	A vein of humor should be made visible
without the help of a reduction mill—J. A.
Macon.

	I never  have seen an idea too big for a
sentence, but I have read thousands of sen-
tences too big for an idea.—Uncle Esek.

	Mercy puts an argument in the mouth of
prayer, a glass to the eye of faith, and a harp
in the hand of thankfulness.

	Greatness is rarely born of the multitude.
Individual power is the product of a wide
horizon. Inspiration springs from solitude,and
the infinite comes nearer as the finite recedes
from the mental vision; only solitude must not
be filled with self.—A. W. Tourgee.


All ceremonies are in themselves very silly
things, but yet a man of the world should know
them. They are the outworks of manners and
decency, which would be too often broken in
upon, if it were not for that defence, which
keeps the enemy at a proper distance. It is for
that reason that I always treat fools and cox-
combswith great ceremony, true good breeding
not being a sufficient barrier against them.—
Chesterfield.


IN MEMORIAM

	Again we are called upon to chronicle the death of a
beloved sister and friend.	
	Sister Jane Hone Lee died at American Fork Aug 23rd
1889, of Pleurisy of the heart, aged 55 years and 8 months.
Sister Lee, with her family has lived at American Fork for
the last 27 years, and has been a teacher in the Relief
Society since its organization. She was a true wife and
mother, and a good friend, and, notwithstanding she had
been in delicate health for several years, she was very
diligent in the discharge of her duty, never missing her
meetings if she was able to be there; and always bore a
strong and faithful testimony to the truth of the gospel
and also to the gift of healing. She was cheerful under
all circumstances and though a great sufferer at times, she
never murmured at the providences of God, but had al-
ways a word of encouragement for others, and a reliance
on the Almighty that carried her through her afflictions
Her husband and family feel deeply their loss, as they
were fondly attached to her. The funeral was held at the
Meeting House and was largely attended. Several of
the Brethren spoke of the good character and devotion of
the departed, and also gave advice and consolation to the
family and friends.
	The following resolutions were unanimously adopted by
the Relief Society, that, whereas, the Lord has called
from our midst by the hand of death, our beloved Sister
Jane Hone Lee, therefore.
resolved, that we recognize in the death of our sister, the
loss of an able and efficient teacher in the Relief Society
of American Fork ward.
	Resolved, that we esteem her past, faithful labors and
great devotion to duty, as worthy the respect and emu-
lation of all.
	Resolved, that we deeply sympathize with the bereaved
husband and family in the loss of a kind wife and affection-
ate mother.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy be presented to the bereaved
family, and also one to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for
publication.
			Committee.	EMMA FEATHERSTONE.
						CHARLOTTE SHELLEY.


OBITUARY.

	Sophia Minerva Foster Burgess peacefully passed away
on the 1st, day of Sept, at 4 o'clock p. m. at the residence 
of Bishop William H. Lee, Woodruff, Rich Co., Utah.
	She was born April 12th, 1810 in Madison, New Haven
Co., Ct. She first heard and received the Gospel in Vermont
while on a visit to relatives, was baptized Dec. 31st, 1831,
and immediately gathered with the saints to Kirtland Ohio,
remaining there about five years, during this period the
temple was finished and dedicated and she received many
blessings therein, was present when the Twelve and first
Seventy were called and ordained; her acquaintance with
the Smith family was intimate from whom she received
many favors and blessings. Her testimony of the divine
mission of the Prophet Joseph was true to the last. On the
1st, day of July 1835 she was married to Harrison Burgess,
shared in the Missouri persecution a portion of the time
being sick and nearly helpless, returned with the saints to
Illinois and after the completion of the temple assisted in
the labor performed therein. Was one of the Pioneer
daughters in the settlement of these mountain valleys.
She lived in Salt Lake City until 1862 when in connection
with her husband they answered a call to the Southern
mission; has done work for over 1,000 dead kindred in the
St. George Temple. In April 1889, she came to Woodruff
to visit her two nieces Harriet Carter Lee and Ruth Carter
Cornia. She was a firm believer in the principles of the
Gospel and died in the full hope of a glorious Resurrection
the meeting beyond will be a joyful one.
								S. C. PUTNAM.


UNION
PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
﻿PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION  TICKET  OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS,     J. V. PARKER,
	City Pass. Agt.	Div.	Pass. Agt.

R.K.THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and in-
fant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence a class in
OBSTETRICS AND NURSING
On Monday, October 14, '89.
Course, Six Months. Tuition, $50.00
	For further particulars address
			DR. M. C. SHIPP,
				34 S. Seventh East Street.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

			The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 18.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1889.				No.	9.


CONTENTS.
	Hephzibah—A story. Death of a noted Eng-
lish Woman. The Dozen Greatest Poets. What
kind of Education will secure our Salvation.—M.
E. Teasdale. Commemoration of Historical
events. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL. Notice of Conference. Relief
Society Conference. More Severe Measures.
Editorial Notes. A Golden Wedding. Three
Quarters of a Century. Literary Note. To the
Suffrage Ladies.—Clara B. Colly. People's Plat-
form.
	Tennyson’s Birthday.—Ex. R.S. Reports. W.
S. A. Millard Co.
	POETRY.—The Infant Sister.—L. G.Richards.
Lines.—Emily H. Woodmansee.  Our Darling
Babe.—E. R. S.
	In Memoriam. Obituary.


THE INFANT SISTER.

	Let me see our Baby Sister 
Press my lips upon her cheek;  
	Isn't she a sprightly "fister"?
How her young eyes dance and speak!
	Telling us of happy Heaven,
Joyous message from above;
	As of follies all forgiven,
And of new born faith and love.

	Gently greet the youthful stranger,
Bid her welcome everywhere, 
	Help to shield from threat’ning danger,
Soothe her hours of anxious care.
	How her weary feet may blister.
In the rough and heated sand!
	Cheer her, aid her, brother, sister,
Take her kindly by the hand.

	Lead her bravely, firmly onward,
Though an infant, born to-day,
	Hopefully she reaches sunward.
For our “Y. L. M. I. A."
	Years ago was contemplated,
First, by Heaven inspired “Hope,"
	Such a birth—yet watched and waited
This fair child for strength and scope.

	When her elder sister ventured,
Eighteen years ago, to speak, 
	How, by some, her ways were censured!
Some have grown more wise and meek.
	Now the Infant and the Maiden, 
Side by side, in rosy youth,
	Clasping hands, with hearts love-laden,
Stand for ZION, GOD and TRUTH.
						L. G. RICHARDS.


LINES.

	Addressed to Sister S. J Cannon and to a mumber of
Friends assembled in honor of her fiftieth Birthday Anni-
versary. 
	Refreshing ’tis, to meet with those who love us,
		To find amid life's shadows, pure delight,
	Cheering, as when the starry orhs above us
		Shine out in splendor, and illume the night.

	Pure social influences cheer the soul;
		True friendships’ voice is like a soothing strain,
	Sweet sympathy, oft makes the spirit whole;
		Nor is Love's willing labor lost or vain.

	Christ's Law commends itself to generous hearts,
		"Each other's burthens," so called Saints should
			bear,
	Trouble and grief of many kinds and sorts
		Or more or less, we all are bound to share.


To day our friends are scatter'd far and wide
	Our "fireside circles," ruthlessly are riven;
Drifting on persecution's heaving tide
	From sweet home comforts dearest ones are driven. 

The true and just are counted lawful prey,
	Denounced as aliens or as traitors bold,
Are robb'd of Freeman's rights in open day
	A shameful sight for Freemen to behold. 

Yet, as the noted worthies heretofore,
	Who served as targets for the clamorous crowd
Counted as gain, the scorn and shame they bore;
	And in the midst of pain rejoiced aloud,

So Zion's children are and must be brave,
	Hopeful and humble, patient in distress,
Must trust in Him alone, whose power can save;
	Who surely will, His children's wrongs redress

God's own "peculiar people" tried yet choice,
	Can bid despondency to Hope give place
God's own "peculiar people" can rejoice
	Above all other's on the Earth's broad face.

In sacred circles, or at social feasts,
	God gives the pure of heart his peace profound
This natal Jubilee is proof at least
	Despite our troubles, cheerful souls abound.

From purest friendliness, convene we here
	And cordially as one we all unite
To pay respect to One beloved and near
	To honor this important festive night.

Dear Sister Cannon! needless 'tis to tell
	Your bark has breasted oft an adverse tide;
Yet, hosts of friends are yours, who wish you well,
	Who trust o'er smoother waters, yet you'll glide.

O may your days and years be lengthen'd out,
	To whatso'e'er extent you may desire;
And may, true love, encircle you about;
	And living Faith and Hope your soul inspire.
					Your Friend
						EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City, Sept. 11. 1889.


[Column 1]
HEPHZIBAH.
VIII.
		Once more good bye, to loving friends and dear;
			A fond adieu to meadows, groves and brook;
		Now other scenes, the lonely heart must cheer,
			Nor backward turn with one regretful look.

	The preparations for Hepsie's departure were
completed, and with a sorrowful countenance,
she heard the announcement that all was ready
for her journey.
	"I must go over all the dear places once
more, mother, and say good-bye perhaps for-
ever; there are hills to climb and golden rod
to gather, I'll wear a bunch of it; and in the
meadows there are daisies still, I'll have a hand-
full of them, tomorrow morning I must go to
the grove and hear the birds sing again, and
then the brook, I love so much, there are fine
ferns there, I'll take a few of those, and then
you know mother, I have so many friends to
part with, old and young, I'm going so far, and
it will be years perhaps, before I come back,
didn't you say so?"
	"Yes, I said you had better stay three or
four years there, but we shall come to see you
sometimes." 
	"But you can't bring all the lovely places
with you, O, I must go over them once more!"
	Her mother listened in astonishment, "why
Hepsie you've been at home for weeks, and
going here and there through the village, say-

[Column 2]
ing your tender things to young and old, and
roaming in the hills, filling the house with
Autumn leaves, and brown and yellow vines
and twining them about the rooms in your
own queer way; you cannot take such rubbish
with you, besides the hills there are full of
them; and you will be very near the river, the
beautiful Connecticutt."
	"Yes," interposed Marion an older sister
"but Hepsie loves our little brook here at home,
more than she will ever love the grandest
river, that's where she gets her inspiration
from!"
	"What to make verses," chimed in one of
the boys, "O yes, I know, she talks to herself
down there; I've often heard her, and she told
me that she believed, if there ever were true
fairies, they were in the hemlock grove, down
by that brook." 
	"Jamie you said you wouldn't tell," cried
Hepsie, and then she burst into tears. These
were her childish secrets, and she did not like
them told, not even in her own home.
	The mother heard the children talk on
among themselves, but she made no comment,
wise woman indeed, yet deep down in her heart
half-consciously a thought, a hope was lurking,
that some day Hepsie might be all her grandpa
had promised on the day of her birth.
	The evening was passed in talking over the
affair uppermost in the minds of all the family;
Hepsie's going away again to another school;
and each one had something to say before part-
ing for the night or some advice to give; and
many plans were laid for the morrow. Early
in the morning Hepsie and her brothers were
off to the grove to hear the birds sing, and
gather the ferns, and all day long, she was go-
ing hither and thither taking leave of all she
held so dear, outdoors and in. One might set
out for Egypt and the Nile in our day, and not
feel the breaking up and leave taking so much
as little Hepsie did, going away fifty miles to
school. Albeit Hepsie loved school, and
wanted to go, for she had "great expectations"
in her own way.
	We will not linger over the day, the last day
at home for a time, but simply state, there was
little eating, or sleeping among the children,
and Mrs. Hathaway was profoundly quiet.
Morning came and the house was soon astir—
it  was an Autumn morning and the trees were
many colored, the scarlet maples flashed in the
mellow sunlight, and the hills were fairly regal
in their gorgeous coloring.
	The parting was soon over, though many
tears were shed, and long after the coach was
out of sight, the children hung about the gate-
way, to try and catch one more glimpse of the
fine horses. Mrs. H. had entrusted Hepsie to
the care of a friend, who was going to the
county town whither Hepsie was bound, and
so she had no misgivings cencerning her safety.
The ride was simply delightful, and once she
ceased weeping, she enjoyed every moment.
The many colored hills and woods, the sumac,
mountain ash and maple, and other bright tints
of shrubbery were a perfect picture, as they
drove rapidly over the road; bridges were
crossed and hills climbed, pretty villages were
passed, and at noon the stage drove into a town
where there were a goodly number of Church
steeples, many large and handsome buildings;
on and on the stage rattled until the tavern
was reached; there the passengers alighted and
horses were put up. Dinner at the tavern, for
those who wished it, then fresh horses and


[Column 1]
another start—Hepsie had a delicate lunch
with her, and she could not even swallow a
little of that. A great sob was in her throat,
notwithstanding all her mental resolves, and
the beautiful scenes on every side. Her
mother's friend did not say much to the child,
and she was glad for her own thoughts were
company. Late in the evening they arrived
and found the sister and husband waiting when
the stage drove into town. Hannah took the
child in her arms embracing her too fondly al-
most, for Hepsie was not accustomed to such
caresses from grown people; and she scarcely
knew if she liked it; so "proper" had been her
training.
	Everything was new and strange, but this
time instead of an old romantic house and fur-
nishings it was altogether modern and stylish.
The sister plied the child with questions about
home, and the village folks, talking on of home
affairs until the tired girl was half asleep in
bed; then kissing her softly she left the room,
thinking to herself, what a sweet girl her little
sister had grown and how she had improved
since she had seen her last.
	When Hepsie woke she was thinking of the
ordeal she must soon go through of entering
school again. Her timidity was painful, and
she suffered much in her feelings that no one
knew, or would have guessed, she seemed so
composed outwardly. Hannah (or Mrs. Sever-
ance it was now) had promised to go with her
to see Miss Andrews the principal teacher, and
make all necessary arrangements.
	"O, what a beautiful woman! so sweet-man-
nered, and dignified, I'm sure I shall love her
quite as well as Miss Elliott, though she was a
'a most amiable person' (quoting Mrs. Grovse-
ner's words) but then I shall miss the club,"
said Hepsie, to her sister, after her first day at
the new school.
	"And who is Miss Elliott pray tell? You
know Hepsie you've been telling me about  Miss
Fay, who boasted of her brother at Yale, and
called you "opinionated, the girl in panta-
lettes" etc. I should like to know something
more about your 'club' what was it? All those
girls are to marry Ministers, Doctors, Lawyers,
or Professors of some sort. You too I suppose
entered into a compact did you?
	"Well, yes, we did, but then, I'll be too far away
now, to know what they do, of course they'll
write to me sometimes, Jane and Lucy will I
know, and as for Miss Fay, why she can't write
even an essay by herself.—”
	"Yon don't answer my questions little sister,
now please tell me first, who is Miss Elliot?
I'll begin at the beginning."
	"Miss Elliott was the Preceptress at the
High School at M—and a perfect lady; very
wise you know, but she couldn’t see everything
that was going on there, with all her learning.
She didn't dream that the girls were carrying
on flirtations under her very eyes, besides how
could she understand it, she was an old maid!"
	"O, then old maids are not supposed to be
wise in love matters, how is that?"
	"Mrs. Grovsener said single women had no
experience compared to one who married
and had a family, I don't think Miss Elliott
had even been in love, she was always so quiet,
and self-possessed, never betrayed any emotion
whatever happened in the schoolroom."
	"Little sister, I’m afraid your ideas are very
fallacious, especially about love; these giddy
school-girls have filled your head with non-
sense."
	"It wasn't the girls who gave me my im-
pressions, you know Hannah, I read all my
grandmother's love letters, in the old garret,
when I was a very little girl, she knew what
real love was; and then besides Mrs. G. a

[Column 2]
minister's wife, and a minister's daughter too,
she used to talk to me by the hour together."
	"Not about love I should think?" said
Hannah, "minister's wives generally are very
religious and serious, and they have work to do
that demands their time and energies, they
haven't much left for lectures on love."
	"Mrs. G. used to talk to me, Hannah in the
long evenings when the Rev. Erasmus was
asleep taking his rest and snoring, and she was
busy sewing, mending or darning always."
	"And pray what were you doing all the time
were you idle and she so industrious?"
	"O, no, I was making lace, or knitting, or
doing some little thing, Mrs. G. thought it a
sin to be idle, but sometimes when she was talk-
ing, I used to let my work fall out of my hands
to listen;—besides wasn’t I learning all the
time? she used to say, "Hepsie these are life-
lessons for you out of my own experience."
	"You are well posted about love perhaps
from reading love letters written ages ago, but
I must say I don't quite agree with you about
old maids, notwithstanding your authority on
the subject; I might differ with even a min-
ister's wife or daughter; their opportunities are
often very limited for observation. Our family
have lived within a stone's throw of the par-
sonage all our lives, and since my remem-
brance there have been half a dozen different
ministers engaged to preach in the village
Church, I don't think either of their wives knew
much about love; but never mind discussing
these opinions now, tell me about Miss Fay?
she seems to have antagonized you.”—Miss Fay
is as proud as a peacock and wears handsome
dresses, and elegant hats, and all that,—but
she was very glad to get "the girl in panta-
lettes" to help her get her lessons." "But
Hepsie that isn't telling me who she is?" "May
be not, but at school we didn't know much
about that, we judged the girls by their de-
portment, and what they could do;—however I
know all about Miss Fay, she's 'Squire Fay's
daughter, they live at M.—have a fine house;
she is not pretty, and I don't believe they're
very great people; Mrs. Grovsener didn't care
for them at all, she said Mrs. Fay was not a
lady,' though the 'Squire is a very influential
man in the town."
	"It appears to me you're always quoting Mrs.
G. but tell me hasn't Miss Fay another name,
you always speak of the other girls of the Club
as Jane, Lucy, Sarah and so on, how is it?"
	"It was always Miss Fay at school, she's an
only daughter—and her name is a very odd
one, Mehitable, her father calls her Hettie."
	"Mehitable, that's as ugly a name as yours!"
	"Hephzibah is a very grand name, Hannah,
and just think of the lady I'm named for—
what a superior woman she was, and every one
loved her. Hephzibah Hastings, afterwards
Hathaway—a curious combination of names
three grand ones together."
	“I am very glad you like your name little
sister; it don't make much difference, but I
remember how we all cried when grandpa
named you, such a sweet baby, you were."
	"And now I've grown out of the sweetness
I supposed and am full of all sorts of outre ideas,
and not a bit like other girls, that's what I 
often hear, the Club girls said that was the rea-
son they invited me to join them, not very
flattering either."
	This conversation and other similar ones
from time to time gave Mrs. Severance an in-
sight into Hepsie's character, though the child
was very careful never to talk when Mr. S.
was present—she did not like him, though she
had no good reason to give, and somehow she
never liked to mention him to her sister; she
could not understand how it was her sister had
chosen him, and yet they seemed perfectly sat-
isfied with each other.
	Hepsie was fast developing now, and her
originality made her a most agreeable com-

[Column 3]
	panion, and her progress in her studies was
very remarkable. Occasionally she received
letters from the "club girls" as she called them
but they were full of their beaux, and Hepsie
was too far off to have the same interest in their
affairs as formerly. Her sister's husband was
a musician, and Mrs. S. a fine singer, and in
the winter evenings a few friends, musical ones,
were in the habit of meeting there for recrea-
tion. No parties, no theatres, no public gather-
ings for the girls were allowed. Miss An-
drew's girls were entirely under her control
in this respect, as much as if they lived under
one roof. She was their escort over the hills,
through the woods, or river paths. She too
was musical in her tastes and a magnificient
singer, so she sometimes allowed herself an
evening at Mrs. Severance's much to Hepsie's
delight, for then she felt she had her teacher
all to herself, selfish love, and Miss Andrew's
partiality for the child was readily seen on
these occasions, in fact she scarcely talked of
anything else; she was very very fond of Hepsie
as well as very proud of her as a student.
And it was at this school Hepsie's compositions
and essays, and the comments made upon them
by the teachers created quite a sensation and
awoke considerable envy among the less for-
tunate girls. But we must not linger too
long over details, for we are reaching the
important period, the turning point in the
future life of this romantic school girl.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DEATH OF A NOTED ENGLISH-
				WOMAN.

	The death in the early days of September
of Miss Caroline Ashurst Biggs causes regret
on both sides of the Atlantic for whoever
knew anything of the work for woman’s en-
franchisement in Great Britain knew of Miss
Biggs as one of its earliest, most efficient and
untiring supporters both with pen and speech.
She was the editor of the Englishwoman's
Review, the most substantial periodical pub-
lished in connection with the movement.
Miss Biggs had always realized the broad
scope of the movement for the political
equality of woman and given much attention to
social and industrial measures, and of late
years had thrown herself very ardently into
the effort to secure womens as Poor-Law
Guardians.
	Miss Biggs was related to the Hon. James
Stansfield, one of the strongest supporters of
woman’s enfranchisement in the British Parlia-
ment.


THE DOZEN GREATEST POETS.

	“Perhaps I may be permitted to recapitulate
the list of a dozen English poets whom I
ventured to quote as the manifest immortals
of our British Parnassus. They are Chaucer,
Spenser, Shakespeare, Milton, Dryden, Pope,
Gray, Burns, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron,
Keats, Shelley. It will be noticed that there
are thirteen names here, and my reviewers
have not failed to remind me that it is notori-
ously difficult to count the stars. The fact is
that Gray, the real thirteenth, was an after-
thought, and I will admit that, although Gray
is the author of what is perhaps the most im-
posing single short poem in the language, and
although he has charm, skill, and distinction
to a marvelous degree, his originality, his
force of production, was so rigidly limited
that he may scarcely be admitted to the first 
rank. No doubt the explosive force which
eggs a writer on to constant expression was
lacking in the case of Gray, and I yield him—
a tender babe, and the only one of my inter
esting family which I will consent to throw to
the wolves. The rest are inviolable, and I will
defend them to the last.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR DARLING BABE.

Beautiful sunbeam! come down from above,
To fill all our hearts with the sunshine of love,
To soften and melt the ice-bound high ways,
That have compassed our hearts for many long days.
Oh fair, lovely baby! come here to beguile
And allure from earth, our hearts, for awhile
Giving a glimpse of Heaven to our vision,
And foretaste of pleasures purely Elysian.

How comely and fair thine innocent face,
Thou dost find in all hearts the tenderest place,
Thy presence so soothing—angelic its charms!
I feel nearer Heaven with you in my arms.
We welcome you here in our hearts, in our home.
And say: "Little darling we're glad you have come;"
"O may you remain long, to comfort and bless!"
We kiss your fair brow—and tenderly press
You close to our hearts—and say: "Precious one,
Welcome, thrice welcome to hearts and to home!"

But while these fair thoughts pass through the brain,
A tinge of regret the bright pictures stain—
When we think of the struggle with life, and its cares,
Its sorrows and pains, temptations and snares.
Instinctively pressing thee fondly and close,
We fain would protect from each cold wind that blows.
Exclaiming: "O cannot our love prove to be
A safegaurd 'gainst ills that may over take thee?"

How naturally would we, had we the power,
Strew all thy pathway with beautiful flowers.
We would ne'er let thy heart feel sorrow's cold blight,
But fill every hour with joy and delight,
Bnt no, indeed no! that never would do!
Our fond selfish love would thus deprive you
Of a heritage greater, and holier far—
One that differs as much as the sun from the star,
And this is Experience bitter and stern
By which all the best things in this life we learn.

We know there's a work for those small hands to do,
The feet must not falter, the heart must keep true,
The judgment mature, and intellect grow,
While you through this world unflinchingly go.
And with all the wishes that mothers could make—
That you of life's sorrows may lightly partake,
I would pray to the Father for knowledge and light,
Invoking His spirit to guide you aright,
To direct thy young feet through all thy youth,
In Wisdom unto the fountain of Truth.
							E. R. S.—M. D.
Sept 9th 1889.


WHAT KIND OF EDUCATION WILL
		SECURE OUR SALVATION.

	"The glory of God is intelligence.” “We
cannot be saved in ignorance,” Are express-
ions often used by our public speakers. But
they do not always tell us what kind of knowl-
edge is necessary for our salvation. This is
to all of us a very important question. If
our salvation depends upon our education or
the knowledge we obtain in this life. I say it
is of vital importance to us, that we should
know of a certainty, what kind of education
is required, that our time and energies may
not be expended in the wrong direction. If
it is a college education or to become pro-
ficient in the arts and sciences of the day,
that is meant, what will become of the millions
who have and who now inhabit the earth, who
have not had the privilege of attending
these places of learning? A just and loving
Father would not make that kind of in-
telligence a condition of salvation unless it
was within the reach of all to obtain it. There-
fore it must be something else that is meant.
	I think the education repuired to save us,
is the education the gospel of Jesus Christ
gives those who practice its principles.
	This gospel which is a perfect plan of life
and salvation, is offered without money and
without price to all the inhabitants of the 
earth. And it is within the reach of every
one. The poorest and most humble can


receive this kind of education, this intelligence,
as much as the wealthy, and go on from one
principle to another until they find themselves
in the Celestial Kingdom of God, graduated
if you will allow the term, from ignorance and
dense darkness into the light and intelligence
of celestial beings. All other kinds of edu-
cation fall into insignificance compared with
this. Does not the Bible say, “to know God
and His son Jesus Christ is eternal life?”
	The Gospel is so plain, that it was said by
the Savior, “that a way-faring man though a
fool need not err therein.”
	Joseph Smith was taught of God and was
transformed from an unlettered youth, into
an intelligent, educated, polished gentleman;
the peer of the noblest the earth possessed, in
worldly wisdom, such as men boast of to day;
besides his wonderful spiritual gifts pertaining
to his position as the mouthpiece of God.
Proving the truth of the scripture, which
says “seek ye first the Kingdom of God and
its righteousness and all else shall be added
unto you.” This shows that a person loses
nothing but gains much, by devoting his time
in acquiring a Knowledge of his creator and
how to regain his presence. My dear sisters
it is our privilege to have this great edu-
cator, even the Holy Ghost, to be our constant
companion. It will teach us of our duties
warn us of danger, and be a lamp to our feet
and a light to our path. Girls let us repent
of our follies and light-mindedness, and live up
to our privileges, that we may enjoy the in-
spirations of God and receive revelation for
ourselves. Pres. Woodruff said at the Y. M’s
conference, that it is the privilege of every
man, woman and child old enough to under-
stand such things to receive revelations for
himself. What a priceless boon. It is worth
living for. Girls try to live for this, and when
choosing your life companions, remember it is
your privilege to know the will of the Lord, in
this all-important matter. That God will
bless the youth and incline their hearts to
seek after him, is my earnest prayer.
						M. E. TEASDALE.


COMMEMORATION OF HISTORICAL
			EVENTS.

IN HONOR OF HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.

	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe’s infirmities pre-
vented the famous authoress acknowledging in
person the testimonial extended to her this
afternoon. The affair was at the opera house
which was full to overflowing with the most
fashionable audience that has assembled there
for years. The testimonial took the shape of a
national pageant with a series of tableaux, rep-
resenting events and periods in American his-
tory, bringing to the foreground in a specially
strong light the achievements of American wo-
men and the events associated with the work
upon which Mrs. Stowe’s fame so largely rests.
The aged lady could not attend and was imper-
sonated by her sister, Mrs. Isabella Beecher
Hooker in a tableau in which it had been
hoped she could take part, “The writing of
Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
	Physically Mrs. Stowe is stronger than a
year ago, but mentally she is a little child.
The testimonial has been discussed with her,
but it interested her only as in her girlhood,
she might have been pleased with the prospect
of a new toy or a day’s pleasure.
	Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, acting as histo-
rian, brifly introduced the tableaux which were
divided into four periods, viz: Ante-Colonial—
Columbus at the Court of Isabella.
	Colonial—Landing of the Pilgrims; The
Banishment of Annie Hutchison (this was from
Boston, in 1637, for discussing doctrinal ques-
tions); The Hiding of the Connecticut Charter.


Revolutionary period—the reception of
Martha Washington “(this included a minuet
by eight couples); “the Boston tea party;" the
battle of Bunker Hill, with British and Ameri-
can forces, represented by the Governor’s foot
guard and the Putnam phalanx; the execution
of Nathan hale; the reading of the Declara-
tion of Independence.
	National and reformatory period—the Bos-
ton broad cloth mob, representing the Boston
pro-slavery men who mobbed Garrison in 1835;
Anthony Burns returned to slavery; The de-
parture of Connecticut’s first regiment. the
Hartford companies of the Connecticut national
guard; Woman’s patriotism,” representing
nurses in the hospital; the emancipation proc-
lamation; the return of the Connecticut first
regiment, represented by Grand Army men;
Mrs. Stowe, writing “Uncle Tom’s Cabin;”
“Woman’s Sphere—1800,” being a New
England kitchen, with a mother and sixteen
children; “The Woman's Crusade,” represent-
ing a little band of women in Ohio, who in-
vaded the saloons and started the Women’s
Christian Temperance Union; “Woman’s
Sphere—1889,” with the professional and busi-
ness women of Hartford on the stage.
	The singing of Julia Ward Howe’s “Battle
Hymn of the Republic” closed the programme,
occupying over four hours. The audience
applauded almost every feature and encores
were frequent. Although given in the after-
noon it was the society event of the season,
and a large sum was realized for the further-
ance of enterprises in aid of women.
	Hartford. Conn., Sept. 24.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Woman’s Congress will be held in Den-
ver, October 8th, 9th and 10th.
	The annual meeting of the Pennsylvania
Woman Suffrage Aassociation will be held
October 24th and 25th.
	We have had the reign of man’s tyranny:
we have had the era of his chivalry and
generosity, now let people rise to the full
moral dignity of an American citizen and say:
“Let there be justice.”
	Women were admitted as delegates to the
Protestant Methodist Conference which met in
September in Wheeling, Virginia. It was
voted by a small majority. This is the denom-
ination of which Anna Shaw is a regular
ordained minister.
	Miss Anthony recently visited her mother’s
bridesmaid, Mrs. Annie Jenks Richardson at
her home in Cheshire Massachusetts. Mrs.
Richardson is 94 years of age but reads the
WOMAN'S TRIBUNE and keeps up her interest
in the progress of women.
	Probably the theory that voting would be
too arduous a duty for women to perform has
arisen from the fact that this seems to be such
an exhausting business for men. So many of
them after waking up and being lively on
election day are so used up, that they have to
sit around on dry goods boxes and sun them-
selves for months in order to recuperate.
								Ex.

	The 10th and 12th Sections of the New
Constitution of Montana reads as follows:	
	SECTION 10.—Women shall be eligible to hold the office
of county superintendent of schools or any school district
office, and shall have the right to vote at any school
district election.
	SEC. 12.—Upon all questions submitted to the vote of
the tax-payers of the state, or any political discussion
thereof, Women who are tax-payers and possessed of
the qualifications for the right of suffrage required by men
by this constitution shall equally with men have the right
to vote.”


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 			-			Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH. 
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
Salt Lake City, 		-		-		October	1,	1889.


NOTICE.

	The Sixtieth Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, will
commence at 10 o’clock, on Friday morning,
October 4th, 1889, in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake
City.
	The officers and members of the Church are
cordially invited to be present at the meetings.
				WILFORD WOODRUFF,
				GEORGE Q. CANNON,
				JOSEPH F. SMITH,
					First	Presidency.

		RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The first Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, Salt Lake City, on Monday October 7th,
commencing at 10 a. m.
	A cordial invitation is extended to the Stake
Presidents of the Relief Society and all officers
and members thereof, and also the brethren to at-
tend the meetings.
				ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
								President.
				JANE S. RICHARDS,
				BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
								Counselors.


[column 1]

		﻿MORE SEVERE MEASURES.
	The report of the Utah Commission as it ap-
pears in the telegrams from Washington, is much
more radical than heretofore. These commission-
ers make several new and startling recommenda-
tions. They feel in duty bound to urge upon
Congress still more stringent methods of putting
a stop to the practice of polygamy, and to do this
would have“the terms of imprisonment for unlaw-
ful cohabitation extended to at least two years
for the first and three years for the second of-
fense;” and in addition to this inhumane recommen-
dation, they also propose to punish women though
they have not stated just the extent of the term
for imprisonment leaving so much to the discretion
of Congress. The pain and suffering and sorrow
already entailed upon the women and children in
this Territory, does not seem to have had any
effect upon them; women have already been
punished for not testifying against themselves (or
their husbands) (which is the same thing.)
	Annie Gallifant the first woman sent to the
Penitentiary under the Edmund’s law, and whose
babe was born immediately after; then Belle
Harris separated from one little child took her
babe with her to prison, Nellie White who was
in a very delicate condition, was also kept there
awaiting the pleasure of the court to dismiss the
Grand Jury which they held over as long as

[column 2]

possible, Mrs. Argyle who was there until it
caused the death of her babe;—these are cases
well known to the public. The Courts in Utah
can already do such things as these and yet it is
not enough, to satisfy the Commission.	
	Besides cases of this kind when one thinks of
the homes broken up, the women and children
who have gone into exile to escape the indelicate
 questions and merciless proceedings of the Courts,
and their deputies and aids, the privation and
hardships consequent thereupon, and the many
deaths of women and children that have directly
or indirectly, been caused by the harsh methods
used by men, who have had the power to enforce
the Edmunds law,and the distress of mind almost
worse than death of others; who have seemingly
never regarded any more the feelings or con-
dition of Mormon women, than they would so
many animals; when one reflects upon these pro-
ceedings in the past and knows the results, and
then considers that still more is desired by men
right here in Utah who know all these facts, one
wonders what manner of men these commission-
ers are; they must belong to the class spoken of
in the Scriptures “without natural affection,” or
destitute of that feeling of philanthropy that
characterizes the greater portion of mankind.
	In addition to increasing the term of imprison-
ment for men they recommend that sentence to
hard labor be imposed also that they may not
spend the time of their confinement “in idleness
and in the glorification of their supposed martyr
dom.” It appears from this that the “Mormons"
even in prison are too happy to suit their wishes.
They would also have them excluded from mak-
ing location and settlement upon public lands,
and further that “the laws with reference to
immigration shall be so amended as to prevent
the immigration of persons claiming their religion
justified the crime of polygamy;” and more over
the Constitution should be amended so as to
further prohibit the practice of polygamy.”
	Truly these commissioners must have been
magnanimously disposed when they devised a
scheme to inflict if possible still more severe
punishment for religious belief. Is it not the
same spirit that existed in former days when
Daniel was not allowed to pray to God?
	Then the Presidents and Princes assembled to-
gether and concocted a scheme whereby the
King should make an inexorable law, that Daniel
should be caught in the snare. But that plot
did not succeed, and the God of Israel is as
able to deliver his people in this day as He was to
deliver Daniel; and the Latter-day Saints do
rejoice in the Gospel and are not afraid, expect to
obey the law, and wherever any infringement
upon the law is found, men are  brought before the
court and sentenced  All the persecution that
can be brought to bear cannot kill out belief; the
history of the ages repeats over and over again
this truth. Surely this people can with propriety
repeat the sublime words of the poet when they
read the report of the Utah Commission.
		“Man’s inhumanity to man
	Makes conntless thousands mourn,”


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Notes of the Coeur d’ Alene country, and our
visit, will appear in next issue.
	The Territorial Fair will open October 2, at 12
m., with music by the band, prayer by Bishop O.
F. Whitney and an address by Governor A. L.
Thomas. The Fair will be formally opened after
the music and exercises by Bishop John R.
Winder, President of the Society.
	The Constitution which the Wyoming Conven-
tion have introduced and which is to be presented
to Congress at its next session, accords equal
political rights to men and women. This should


be positive proof that suffrage in that Territory
has been a success in the past, and the Congress
of the United States will have an opportunity of
considering a question of vital importance to the
women of the nation. 
	The Utah Woman's Suffrage Associations will
hold a Convention in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City on Monday, October 7, at 2 p
m. Delegates from each of the organizations in 
the Territory have been officially notified and are
expected to be present and take part in the pro-
ceedings. Addresses will be made by prominent
speakers. All members of the Associations in
the city or country are most cordially invited, and 
also all men and women interested in the sub-
ject.
	On Thursday evening October 26, the writer
had the pleasure of meeting with Sir Julian and
Lady Goldschmidt at the residence of Mr. and 
Mrs. W. B. Dougall in this city, where a few
ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
among the number had been invited to meet these
distinguished people who are on a visit to 
America. Sir Julian Goldschmidt is a Baronet, a
member of the House of Lords of the Parliament 
of Great Britain. Lady Goldschmidt herself is
an Italian born in Florence and devotedly attached
to her mother country; though she seems to have
a profound adoration for her illustrious Lord
and husband. She is a graceful figure polished
in manners, and charming in conversation; she
has the ease and elegance of the true lady, with-
out any of the ostentation and arrogance that
sometimes characterizes the nobility of England
and other lands. She seemed rather proud of
being the mother of eight daughters, and spoke
of her home and housekeeping with matronly im-
portance. Lady Goldschmidt however scorns the
very idea of woman's suffrage or even speaking
in public, and gave the same sort of reasons that
are constantly being used by its opponents. And 
yet she deprecated the flirting and coquetting of
women "in the best society" where refinement
and delicacy such as she alluded to are supposed
to prevail. The Lady is an accomplished
musician and though she only played one little
selection that evening her whole soul seemed to 
be in it. We were told she was a fine singer and
very much regretted not hearing her, but she de-
clared she did not remember one whole verse of 
any of her songs.


A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	Mr. and Mrs. George Goddard celebrated their
wedding anniversary after fifty years, on Wednes-
day September 10, 1889, at their residence in this
city. The fiftieth anniversary is an event but com-
paratively few have the opportunity of enjoying.
On this propitious occasion there were present
their children and grandchildren something over
fifty in all and a few intimate friends. The affair
was somewhat informal, though toasts were given
and responded too, congratulations offered and
Mr. Hyrum Goddard in behalf of his brothers and
sisters in a happy manner and with an appropriate
and affectionate address made the presentation to
the father and to the mother each, of this large
family a gold watch suitably engraved. This
called forth a response from the parents, on the
mother’s part quite affecting. Bishop Millen At-
wood and wife were present and presented the
bride and bridegroom,each, with a gold pen a very
appropriate gift, with which they “may point a
moral or paint a tale,” as they must have material
for either in the experience of the long years they
have lived together. Other presents of value were
given, but friends are not estimated by gold values
but the intrinsic worth of true hearts and of this,
these good people have an abundance. Music,
singing, and feasting as well as conversation
characterized the gathering and doubtless this


Golden Wedding after fifty years was quite as joy-
ful as the first, though there was probably not so
much ceremony.
	Mr. George Goddard and Miss Elizabeth Harri-
son, were united in marriage on the 10th, day of
September, 1839, in the Church of St. Margaret
in Leicester, England, the ceremony being per-
formed by the Curate in the unavoidable absence
of the Rev. Andrew Irving, who was desirous of
being present to marry them himself.
	Brother and Sister Goddard recieved the Gospel
in Leicester their native place and came to
America in 1852, encountering many perils upon
the way. Four little ones were buried by the way
side, and one was buried in the fathomless
ocean. They have had thirteen children of whom
only five are living, yet the grandchildren are as
numerous accordingly as their own family were.
	The writer offers sincere congratulations to
Bro. and Sister Goddard,and trusts that the golden
bark that has safely breasted so many adverse
rides, may now sail smoothly onward until it
reaches that sure haven, where there are no more
fierce encounters with winds and waves,or troubles
and sorrows, and where there is a fulness of joy
forever.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTURY.

	There must be a certain satisfaction in being
unmistakably old. To be reverenced and looked
up to by your friends as having superior wisdom
and a wonderful experience; and having “the
whole landscape of life behind you and below
you,” as it were. This is naturally the condition
of Sister Presindia Kimball. On her recent birth-
day anniversary fifty or more of her dear friends
met at her residence as they have been in the
habit of doing regularly for seventeen years.
They were mostly veterans themselves, with a few
young women, who love to mingle with those
whose whole souls are absorbed in the Latter-day
work.
	One of these young girls Miss Gladys Wood-
mansee took the minutes of this meeting or
party, in order to preserve the many good things
said on that occasion and to be read when they
meet again.
	From these minutes we understand the spirit of
that gathering and it was the spirit of the Gospel.
Their hearts were inspired with love for each
other and the grand truths revealed in our day
by the Prophet Joseph. The gift of tongues was
given and the interpretation and the sisters re-
joiced in the manifestation of the smile and
approbation of the Heavenly Father made known
to them through these precious gifts.
	Blessings were pronounced upon Sister Kim-
ball for her comfort and many were the promises
made to her and all concided with her former bless-
ings given many years ago by Joseph the
Prophet.
	It would be impossible to give in detail the
proceedings of this goodly company and the
names of those who participated in the affair but
there was singing and prayer, speaking, and bless-
ings, and feasting both spiritual and temporal
and it was a day long to be remembered by all
who were present.
	The following poem was addressed to Sister
Kimball and read to the company assembled by,

				MRS. MARY ANN M. PRATT.
			Our love for you has brought us here,
		Although but few, we hold you dear;
			Your life has been a useful one.
		Continue till your work is done.

			Your many friends wish that your days,
		May not soon end, God bless your ways!
			And may life’s hours be long and sweet,
		To give you joy when e’er we meet.

			Your counsels, yea, we all have sought,
		As treasures dear that can’t be bought,


Your works of love unto the sick
And words of comfort to the meek.

	Are to your sisters, healing balm
Their troubled spirits you can calm;
	And many years may added be
As long as life's desired by thee.


LITERARY NOTE.

	The National Magazine is the name of the new
literary venture of Chicago, which begins with
the October number. It is published under the
auspices of the new "National University,” which
opens October 1st, of which it is the organ. The
first number will contain articles on literary, edu-
cational and scientific subjects, and a pros-
pectus of the University, which is said to be
modelled after the London University and has
extensive non-resident courses, teaching many
subjects by mail. Published at 182 Clark Street.


TO THE SUFFRAGE LADIES.

					Beatrice Neb., Sept. 1889.
	DEAR MRS. WELLS:
	The Woman's Tribune will be published in
Washington. D. C. after the middle of Novem-
ber announcement in next Tribune. This will
enable it to be more helpful in national affairs,
will you kindly urge upon those whom you think
would be interested as you have opportunity their
need of the paper. I am glad that Utah is
getting such a good waking up on the Suffrage
question and that it has so able a representative
as the Woman’s Exponent.
				Yours cordially
						CLARA B. COLLY.


[Column 1]
PEOPLE’S PLATFORM.
DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES.
	The People’s party of Salt Lake City, in con-
vention assembled, present the following.

DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES:
	The basis of free government is the right of the
people to govern themselves.
	The object of the Federal constitution is to
secure a free government to the people of the
United States, wherein all persons shall be pro-
tected in life, liberty and property and in the en-
joyment of every right essential to their happiness
and not inconsistent with the rights of others.
	We regard the Constitution as a sacred char-
ter of human liberty; we revere its principles and
declare our unwavering allegiance to the govern-
ment and laws made in pursuance of its pro.
visions.	
	The People’s Party has always upheld these
principles. It has maintained the right of local
self government. It has contended for the free-
dom and purity of elections. It has opposed
class legislation. It has promoted honesty in all
branches of the public service. It has main-
tained equality before the law. It has been
characterized by justice, prudence and fidelity.
Taxation has been uniform and lower in Utah
than in any other territory. There have been no
extravagant salaries, no jobbery, no schemes for
great bonded debts. Life and property have
been secure, morality has been fostered and vice
repressed. It is the party of conservative pro-
gress, commensurate with public necessities and
resources.
	Opposed to the People’s party is the self-styled
“Liberal” party, which professes to venerate the
Constitution while violating its fundamental
truths. It arrogates to its members the honored
name of Americans while seeking to deprive a
large class of American citizens of the substantial

[Column 2]
rights of freedom. Through its persistent mis-
representation the right of trial by jury has been
abridged and almost destroyed in this territory.
By procuring unrepublican test oaths and other
proscriptive legislation it has disfranchished many
citizens, because they would not support its men
and measures. For this cause only, it has 
succeeded in robbing the women of Utah of the
elective franchise after they had exercised it for
seventeen years. It has endeavored to supplant a
legislature elected by the people with a commis-
sion appointed by the Federal government. It
has sought to erect an insuperable barrier of
prejudice against the admission of Utah as a
state. It seeks to extend to this territory the
infamous enactments by which, in Idaho, thou-
sands of law-abiding citizens are stripped of every
political right, solely because of their member-
ship in an unpopular religious organization. It
avows, through its organs, its intention to procure
such Congressional legislation as will debar all
persons, who belong to that religious body from
acquiring title to any part of the public domain.
It is therefore destructive of popular liberty and
upworthy of the support of any just, liberal and
patriotic citizen.
	We believe that the supremacy of the “Liberal”
party means class disfranchisement, excessive
taxation, official extravagance, and laxity in public
social regulations, and that the supremacy of the
People’s party means equality before the law, rea-
sonable taxes, official honesty and prudence, and
the maintenance of the proud reputation of the city
for law and order.
	That the progress and improvements demanded
by the growth of the city may be secured we de-
clare that:

WATER.
1—	There must be a plentiful supply and fair dis
tribution of water for all needful purposes, let the
cost be what it may. This is absolutely indispen-
able to the health and happiness of the city. The
water mains should be extended as soon as possi-
ble to every part of the city.

STREET LIGHTING.
2—	We favor the speedy extension of street
lighting by gas or electricity to all inhabited parts
of the city.

SANITATION.
3—	We favor a through system of sanitation—
sewers for the business and thickly peopled por-
tions of the city, deodorization and removal of
foecal and all kinds of waste matter from other
parts, under the supervision of efficient officers.

STREET IMPROVEMENT.
4—	The grades and lines of all streets, water
ditches and sidewalks should be permanently
established; the corners of blocks and grades of
streets indicated by suitable corner-stones, and all
improvements made to conform thereto.
	The streets and sidewalks should be perma-
nently graded and improved,with good material,as
fast as possible upon an equitable and definite
plan, and all bridges and culverts should be the
full width of the streets and sidewalks.

PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
5—	We favor the erection of public buildings
adequate for present and approaching requir-
ments. But in order that the taxes may not be in-
creased for this purpose, and that the ordinary city
revenues may be used for water and other press-
ing requirements, the city surplus lands not dedi-
cated to public use should be sold as provided by
law, and the funds appropriated for public build-
ings in common with other improvements.

LETTING OF CONTRACTS.
6—	Public work should be let by contract to the
lowest responsible bidder.

RAILROADS.
7—	Good railroad facilities are necessary to the


growth and development of the city and con-
venience of its inhabitants.  But rights of way for
steam railroads through our streets should only
be granted where absolutely necessary, and then
in such manner as to cause as little injury and in-
convenience to the inhabitants as possible, and
only on the consent of a two thirds majority of the
owners of real property fronting on the street.  No
exclusive street franchises to railroads should
hereafter be granted, but all steam railroads com-
ing in or going out of the city in the same direc-
tion should so far as practicable use the same right
of way, and no side tracks should be allowed on
the streets.  Forfeiture of a franchise should fol-
low persistent neglect to comply with its terms.
No freight trains should run through populous
parts of the city and no cars should be unloaded
or left standing on the streets or sidewalks.
	All railroads should conform to the proper grade
of the streets, which should be kept graded up to
the top of the rails and the street crossings of all
railroads should be planked the full width of the
streets and sidewalks.
	We pledge ourselves to lend our aid and influ-
ence to induce all railroad companies now here to
join in the erection and use of a union depot for
passenger purposes, and to have their freight de-
pots on the outskirts of the city.
				POLICE.
	8—The police force should be neatly uniformed
and be extended so as to give protection to every
municipal ward.
		SUPPRESSION OF VICE.
	9—Gambling houses and houses of ill fame
should be suppressed, and both male and female
resorters to such places should be punished with
the full rigor of the law.
				LIQUOR.
	10—We are opposed to the traffic in liquor and
favor the highest license practicable, and the
strictest execution of the laws for its regulation.
		ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES.
	11—All the ordinances of the city should be
vigorously enforced.
		TAXATION AND PUBLIC DEBT.
	12—Taxes should be equal and uniform, and
limited to the necessities of municipal government,
economically administered, and to the making of
public improvements essential to the well being of
the inhabitants and consistent with the growth
and development of the city.
	It is just that future inhabitants who will enjoy
the benefits of public improvements should assist
in bearing the burdens of their expense. 
			CONCLUSION.
	The People’s Party pledges itself to this plat-
form, and to the maintenance and defense of con-
stitutional principles and the rights of mankind,
and will ever labor to promote universal liberty,
civil, political and religious.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]

﻿		TENNYSON’S BIRTHDAY.
	The eightieth birthday anniversary of
Alfred Tennyson was celebrated on Tuesday,
August 6th. The occasion was not celebrated
with noise and ostentation, but throughout the
civilized world it was remembered with re-
spect and reverence for the venerable poet, by
millions of warm admirers of his splendid
genius.
	Alfred Tennyson is undeniably the greatest
living poet, and is by many competent critics
regarded as the greatest of English poets, of
any age—always, of course, conceding the
pre-eminence of Shakespeare in the field of
dramatic literature. Like Goethe and Hugo
Lord Tennyson rounded out his fourscore
years without having suffered any serious
impairment of his intellectual vigor. The

[column 2]

second “Locksley Hall' and “Tiresias,” which
date back, respectively, but three and four
years, sufficiently sustain this statement, and
the new volume, announced to be published
during the coming fall, will doubtless supply
still further evidence of its truth.
	And what a period it is that this long and
busy life has spanned! “Waverley” was un-
published when Alfred Tennyson was born.
The best work of Wordsworth and Coleridge
lay just behind him, but his own boyhood wit-
nessed the publication of all or nearly all the
work of Byron, Shelley, and Keats. Yet
when the time came for his own appearance
upon the stage of letters these mighty voices
were forced to acknowledge the master chords,
and from the publication, in 1827, of the
“Poems by Two Brothers” to that of the new
“Locksley Hall”—“sixty years later,” in a
literary sense—English poetry has offered no
name to be compared with his. It is true that
for a score of years from the time when Tenny-
son’s first work was given to the public, the
figure of Wordsworth was the most conspic-
uous in English letters, but the period of
Wordsworth's noblest productivity was over
before Alfred Tennyson came into the world.
For upwards of sixty years, then, his has been
the great name of our contemporary literature;
recognizable as such by many from the ap-
pearance of the lyrical volumes of 1830 and
1833, and by all having any competency of
judgment in the matter from the appearance of
the volumes of 1842.
	It may be said of Tennyson that one of the
secrets of his power is this: that he has never
cheapened himself by too frequent and indis-
criminate utterance. His work is finished
as the work of no other English poet
is finished. Of the six or seven hundred
closely printed pages which contain that work
there are not ten that his most critical admirer
could wish unwritten. Restraint is the high-
est of all the literary virtues, and no poet has
ever shown more of it than he. But besides
restraint, which is after all a matter of
character, and besides finish, which is, after
all, a matter of industry, Lord Tennyson has
the genius for poetical expression, which is a
matter of neither character nor industry, and
which is the endowment of but one man
among millions. He has the power of ex-
pression in a pre-eminent degree; in the degree
in which Virgil has it; almost in the degree
in which Shakespeare has it. His readers
hardly need to be reminded of this, or to have
indicated for them any of those countless
felicities of expression which abound in his
works; those expressions of which “In
Memoriam,” for example, is so prolific.
Shakespeare and Milton are the only other
English poets whose style will as well and as
uniformly repay the closest examination.
	This much of the form of Lord Tennyson's
poetry; but something remains to be said of
the matter, for it is not by mere technical
perfection of workmanship that he has gained
his place in our regard. His matter is,
briefly, that which lies closest to the hearts
of all men of the English race, and appeals
to the deepest instincts of their natures. The
domestic affections and the sanctity of the
home, a patriotism not narrowed into selfish
disregard of the rest of mankind and a
religious feeling too broad to be fettered by
any creeds and too profound to be agitated
by the surface currents of thought; these are
the themes of one who is no mere laureate by
royal favor of a court and a dynasty, but
the laureate by divine right of genius, of all
serious men and women of all our race. A
conservative of the finest type, he is no
reactionary, set upon barring the steps of
progress. A champion of the existing order
embodies the hard earned fruits of the long
struggle for light and justice, which is Eng-

[column 3] 

land’s proudest title to a place in the fore-
most page of history, his eye has ever been
keen to perceive “the vision of the future” and
his mind to recognize the fact that always, in
any age not hopelessly stagnant, “the old
order changeth, giving place unto the new.”
The liberty which is not license, and the reason-
able orderliness of life which accepts law with-
out chafing, and which is alone made really
possible by its acceptance of law—“acting the
law we live by without fear”—this is the social
ideal which he has persistently held up before
the English-speaking world during these sixty
years.
	To the individual Lord Tennyson’s message
has been consistent from first to last. The
message is not the most hopeful one that has
come to us, but it is the best, perhaps, that our
age is capable of heeding, and it is assuredly
the weightiest borne by any of our contem-
poraries.
	The most thoughtful men among us are
coming to feel more and more, with our poet,
that “we know not anything,” and that

	We can but trust that good shall fall
	At last—far off—at last to all,
	And every winter change to spring.
								Ex.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

		SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Salt Lake Stake was held in the 14th,
Ward Assembly Rooms in this city Thursday
September 12, 1889.  Mrs. M. Isabella Horne
presiding.  On the Stand were seated her
Counselor Helen Mar Whitney and of the
officers of the Central Relief Society Board
Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith and Secretary
Sarah M. Kimball and Stake Secretary Eliza-
beth Howard, and many of the Presidents of
branches in the Stake.  Meeting opened by
singing, “O, Jesus the giver of all we enjoy.”
Prayer by Mrs. Diana Reed.  Singing “Where
the voice of friendship’s heard.” Twentyfour
presidents, five counselors, and one teacher re-
sponded to the roll call.  Minutes of last Con-
ference read and accepted.
	Mrs, Hannah E. Crosby of St. George ad-
dressed the sisters.  She spoke of her arrival
in the valley in the first company that fol-
lowed the pioneers in 1847—was one of the first
ten wagons of the first hundred, and camped
on what is now known as pioneer square in the
15th Ward. “We had no houses then but we
soon made homes, we were called to St. George
27 years ago and we have now a pleasant
home.  I have quite a family of boys.  I do
not know how it would have been had I
raised them here in this City as it is now. I
am thankful they are all faithful members of
the Church.  Our Relief Society is about in the
same position as yours here, and our reports
are about the same.  We have a Temple as
you know, and we as a Society do a great deal
in that direction, and have made carpeting to
supply the building and renewed it again, each
branch will make a bunch of the warp. We
enjoy ourselves working in the Temple and in
our other duties.”
	Pres. Horne was glad the Society of the
Stake had made such good reports and each
one been so prompt in the duties pertaining
thereto; thought the sisters would need all the
spiritual strength they could get, to live through
the trying times; said “we will need to live our
religion that we may be enabled to endure to
the last, and let us cultivate wisdom and
patience, we require these gifts.” She was
pleased that the Relief Society was taking an
interest in storing grain, urged the necessity
of taking good care of it. “Let us pray for
the wayward that they may return to the fold


[Column 1]
of Jesus; the Lord will seek after them if  we
do our duty in this respect."
    Conference was adjourned to 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, "The time is far spent &c."  Benediction
by Mrs. B. W. Smith.
    Afternoon session:    Counselor H.M. Whit-
ney presiding.    President Zina D.H. Young
on the stand.  Singing "Our God we raise to
Thee."  Mrs. Whitney addressed the meeting.
"We are working for the future, and we are
seeing the fulfillment of the words of the
prophets;  the power of evil is increasing; let
us have a true testimony for ourselves that we
know this work is of God."
    Pres. Z. D. H. Young, "we are blest in com-
ing together that our spirits may be clothed
with the robes of righteousness.  I have been
to Logan Temple, it is precious to me to set
my foot in that sacred spot, those who have the
privilege of going there are blessed indeed.
Our children are ours forever, throughout all
eternity if we are faithful, we have to be tried
and proven, and we will come to that spot, where
we will say "Father it is me and He will give
us grace when we trust in Him."
    Mrs. S. M. Kimball, "I am much interested
in our reports I realize we are a growing peo-
ple, our borders are enlarging."
    "In attending divine service while visiting
in the East I noticed there were many more
women than men and very few children."  She
then gave an interesting account of admin-
istering the Sacrament in sectarian Churches;
and also of the centennial celebration of the
town where she was born, and where her family
had settled in an early day; heard the Rev.
Talmage speak, he told the people nothing
about the plan of salvation.  Sister Kimball
also visited the Hill Cumorah saw the place
where the records were given to the Prophet
Joseph; she also went to the Temple lot in
Independence and saw a gentleman there who
told her "there would be a beautiful Temple
erected there and then we would all come to
the unity of the faith."
    Mrs. R. R. Grant spoke a short time and
referred to her reading the history of the
Prophet Joseph, "his sayings are well worth
our studying.  Let us cultivate the spirit of
charity, let us speak of each other's virtues and
not the weaknesses; we covenant to sustain
the anointed of the Lord.  Let us see that we
do this and speak evil of no one."
    Mrs. M.A. Hazon, Pres. R.S. Brighton, Mrs.
Martha B. Young, Mrs. M. A. Freeze, Mrs.
Elizabeth Mc'Donald of  Arizona, Mrs. Har-
mon, Mrs. Brimley, Mrs. Sarah  Gibson, Pres.
R. S. Sugar House Ward, Mrs. M.A.Lambert
Pres. R. S. 7th,  Ward Salt Lake City, Mrs.
Jane Miller, Pres. R.S. 20th,  Ward Salt Lake
City and Mrs. M. A. E. Watmough each made
a few remarks full of faith and encouragement
and bore strong testimony to the divinity of the
Latter-day  work. The gifts of the Gospel
rested upon some of the sisters in a goodly de-
gree.
    Conference adjourned to December next.
Singing. "Praise to the man &c." Benedic-
tion by Elder Theodore Curtis.
					E. Howard, Secretary.
			Y. L.M. I. A.
    ( The Quarterly Conference of the Young
Ladies Associations of Salt Lake Stake was
held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this
city Friday Sept. 13, 1889.  Mrs. Mary A:
Freeze presiding.)  Meeting opened by singing,
"We thank Thee O God for a prophet."  Prayer
by Miss Edith Sampson, continued singing
"I'll serve the Lord while I am young."
General Report was read including twenty as-
sociations, showing them to be in a thriving
condition.

[Column 2]
Pres. Freeze addressed the meeting felt that
the young sisters had come with prayerful
spirits and if prompted by the Holy Ghost each
one would receive that which would do her the
most good.  Counselor M. Y. Dougall of the
General Presidency of the Association urged
the young ladies to attend their meetings and to
pray for a testimony and it would be given
them, explained how she had received one for
herself, and entreated the young sisters to rise
to their feet and say a few words and courage
and strength would be given them; referred to
her belief in the other world and the great work
to be done, exhorted the girls not to be ashamed
of the Gospel but be faithful to our belief and
keep the commandments that have been given.
Advised those who had joined with the Young
Men's association to have their Secretary keep
a strict report of all the young ladies part in
the Conjoint meetings.
    Counselor Mary P. Young spoke of the fear
she had to speak, but always responded when
called upon, she testified that her heart and soul
were in the Latter-day work.  Mentioned her
recent visit to the Logan Temple and how
happy she felt in her work there, exhorted the
young people to be married in the Temple and
begin life aright, never let their affections go
out in the wrong direction, but pray to be
guided by the Holy Spirit, never allow our-
selves to speak of the faults of our loved ones.
    Pres. Freeze made a few remarks upon
solemnizing one's thoughts before going into a
meeting, thought we should not talk or laugh
on our way to a meeting but should concentrate
the thoughts of our hearts upon sacred things.
    Sister Lillie Freeze said the sisters are very
practical in their teaching, speaking of home
and the training of children; thought each one
should have a testimony for herself and not
rely upon any other, "if we have faith we will
be willing to make any sacrifice required of us;
we should lay a good foundation for our child-
ren;" warned the young ladies against seeking
any means but a prayerful one to learn of the
future, etc.
    Sister Jane Freeze spoke of the timidity the
sisters felt when rising to speak, but advised
them to keep on trying and the Lord would
help them, thought that by speaking in their
own meetings they would gain courage.
    Pres. Freeze then requested all the young
ladies to become missionaries in the several
wards to impart the good instructions we had
received today to others.
    Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m.
Singing, "Come let us anew &c.," prayer by
Sister Sarah Mitchell.
    Afternoon session:   Opened by  singing,
"Joy to the world &c.," prayer by Mrs. Maria
Holt, after singing again the officers of the
Stake were presented and sustained as follows:
Mary. A. Freeze, President, Nellie Colebrook,
Mary P. Young, Counselors, Dr. Maggie C.
Shipp, Edith Sampson, Maria Holt, Clara S.
Carlisle and Jane Freeze Assistants.  Lizzie
Smith, Secretary, Minnie H. James Assistant
Secretary, Lizzie Greene, Rec. Secretary, Ella
Dallas, Cor. Secretary, Dr. Romania B. Pratt,
Treasurer.
    Counselor Nellie Colebrook addressed the
meeting, spoke of her long absence from the
meetings, it seemed as though she had been
asleep; thought we appreciated our friends
when separated from them, during her absence
had  noticed how few keep the Sabbath day
holy.  Urged the young ladies to consider the
importance of this and resist the temptation to

[Column 3]
desecrate that holy day.  "Let us work with a
will, bury our selfishness, pray earnestly for a
foregiveness of our sins and for charity, faith
to stand firm in our religion, that the links we
form here may  last throughout the ages of
eternity."
    Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, always believed that
a lady will be respected in all places, and en-
treated the young women with all her power of
pursuasion to deport themselves as Saints no
matter where they were or with whom associ-
ated.  Thought we should be interested in
every young lady in the City or Country and
try to do them good.  "There is work enough
for every energetic whole-souled Latter-day
Saint woman.
	Counselor B. W. Smith, "we should avoid
even the appearance of evil and not suffer our-
selves to be led astray by beautiful words, flat-
tering though they may be.  I have been in the
Church 55 years and have never seen the time
when I felt it would do to associate with the
frivolous.   You young girls are laying a
foundation for future peace and happiness or
misery; rely upon God who can guide and
protect you in all places. The blessings in store
for the good and faithful are beyond our com-
prehension."
    (Counselor Lillie Freeze, "Young girls when
forming their character's should give serious
thoughts as to what a character should be, it
makes little difference what others think of us,
so long as God is pleased with us."   Sister
Freeze then spoke in the gift of tongues and
Dr. M. C. Shipp gave the interpretation.
    Counselor M. Y. Dougall said she felt so
overcome in hearing the gift of tongues exer-
cised that she could scarcely control her feel-
ings.)   Felt that Satan had all his power cen-
tered here in Zion and we should guard against
it.    We should keep our children around us
and watch over them.  Our sons as well as
our daughters; win their confidence and affec-
tion, that they and all of us may make our
lives as perfect as possible.
    (Pres. Mary A. Freeze thought the testi-
monies received today should strengthen our
faith and make us better able to face the duties
of life.)  She desired the Associations to report
home-readings and urge and stimulate the
young ladies to read good books.
    Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing,  Doxology.    Prayer by  Clara  S.
Carlisle.
			Lizzie Smith, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. MILLARD CO.
	The regular quarterly meeting of the W. S.
A. of Millard Co., was held at Fillmore Aug.,
24.
	Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh presiding. The
meeting was fairly well attended, there being 
quite a few of the "sterner sex" present.
Prayer was offered by Thos. Gates Esq.
Minutes of last meeting read, and roll called.
The quarterly report of work done was laid be-
fore the meeting. The president stated what
were the duties pertaining to each office, and
the need there was, that all should work in
unity, and harmony.
	T. C. Callister, J. A. Melville, George Crane,
Thos. Gates and C. Anderson severally ad-
dressed the meeting, all speaking in favor of
woman’s rights, and freedom. The speakers
all paid their tribute to woman’s capabilities
and capacity for business, and her ability to
fill many offices hitherto held exclusively by
men, and pointing to the mark she had made
in literature, science and art as a proof of what
women could do, in other positions, if they were
educated up to the standard of men, their
mental capacity being fully equal to that of
their brothers. The speakers made some very
humorous and pithy remarks about women in


[column 1]
politics, but all were characterized by good
feeling, and made the meeting a successful,
and pleasant one. The president proposed a
vote of thanks to the gentlemen for their
presence and support, which was unanimously
carried. The meeting closed with prayer by
W. H. Stott.
	A meeting of the Millard Co., W. S. A. was
held in Holden Sept., 3. Mrs. M. A. Y. Green-
halgh presiding. The meeting was well at-
tended, there being a fair sprinkling of the "lords
of creation" present. The meeting was opened
by singing, prayer by Charles Wood. The 
president stated the object of the organization,
and the rights and privileges woman hoped to
obtain, especially the right to vote. This be-
ing the first meeting in Holden the Constitution
of the society was read, and the roll of mem-
bers called. The president then read a brief
sketch of Woman's Suffrage movement from its
commencement down to the present time point-
ing out many illustrious men and women who
had taken an active part in woman's struggle
for freedom and right. A. P. Harmon, Sydney
Teeples and Charles Wood, addressed the
assembly expressing themselves as being in
perfect sympathy with the suffrage movement,
and the undoubted right woman had to be
co equal with man, in social and political
affairs, and that woman was intended to fill a
higher sphere than that of a household drudge
and that she ought to be the peer and com-
panion of her husband. An interval was taken
for the enrollment of names, and the meeting
closed with prayer by A. P. Harmon.
	A meeting of the W. S. A. of Millard Co.,
was held at Deseret Sept. 10. Mrs. M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh presiding.  The meeting opened
with singing by the choir,

	"Do what is right, the day dawn is breaking
	Hailing a future of freedom and right."

Prayer was offered by J. Black. The Consti-
tution was read, and roll of members called.
The president stated what was the object of the 
organization, and the rights and privileges
sought to be obtained, and gave a brief history
of the movement from its commencement, spoke
in terms of the highest respect and praise of the 
many noble men and women who had taken
part in the movement, and given both their
time, talents, and money to help forward the
cause. She had taken part in many struggles,
that appeared even more hopeless than this,
but had lived to see them successfully achieved
and had not the slightest doubt that the equal
rights movement would be equally triumphant.
The meeting was addressed by J. Black, J.
Bennett, W. Black, L. R. Cupper and W.
Hawley, all except the last named gentleman
were in favor of woman suffrage, and equal 
rights with men. Mr. Hawley thought the move-
ment a new fangled idea imported from across
the water, and that it was unconstitutional,
against reason, and against nature that woman
should hold any position except that of house-
wife, with several other equally fallacious argu-
ments. The president replied demolishing his
statements, and said he had strengthened the
cause by the poor arguments he had brought
against it, as much, or perhaps more than any
that had been used in favor of it.
	Mrs. E. Whicker, Mrs. A. Hinder, Mrs. M.
Stocks, Mrs. F. Cupper, Mrs. F. Scott, Mrs.
M. E. Peterson, Mrs. I. J. Bennett and Mrs.
Cynthia Black addressed the meeting, all
speaking clearly and emphatically in favor of
women having equal rights with the
men, and expressed themselves willing to
render all the assistance in their power, to the
furtherance of the movement. An interval was
taken for the enrollment of members, during
which time Mrs. Meta Wells spoke briefly in
favor of the suffrage and exhorted all to enroll
[column 2]
their names, and help on the cause of right
and freedom. The meeting was a numerous
and enthusiastic one, many names were added
to the list of members. The president said she
had been well repaid for the journey to Deseret
that being the largest, and most encouraging
meeting she had attended in the County, and
thanked them for their support and sympathy
with the cause of freedom and right. The 
meeting was closed with prayer by B. W.
Scott. 	
					M. A. Y. G.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Character is like stock in trade; the more of
it a man possesses, the greater his facilities for
making additions to it. Character is power—
is influence; it makes friends; creates funds;
draws patronage and support; and opens a sure
and easy way to wealth, honor, and happiness.
—Hawes.


IN MEMORIAM
	Mary Emerette daughter of John F. and Mary Annie
Rupp Gerber born in Granger July 30, 1870. departed this
life August 26, 1889. The cause of her death was typhoid
pneumonia,  after a few day's illness while absent from
her home; her remains were brought home to her parents
in Granger and the funeral services were held at the Ward
house and conducted by Bishop D. Mc'Rae.  Suitable re-
marks were made  to  console  the mourners  by  Elders
John C Mackay, George B.  Wallace, and the Bishop.  At
the first organization of the Y.  L.  M.  I.  A.  of the Ward
deceased was chosen as first counselor she also assisted in
the singing and in the Primary Association and Sunday
School faithfully till she went away into exile.  She was
a constant reader of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT always
willing to learn some good, from her childhood, she was
affectionate to little children and a kind nurse to her
younger brothers and sisters. Her demise caused her 
family and friends much sorrow, and has cast a gloom 
over all that knew her intimately; she was a happy dis-
position, cheerful and patient under the many trials she was
called to endure, while absent from  her  home and loved 
ones.  Her comforting words to her mother were at all
times,  'do not worry over me, I am all right." She
passed away like a child going to sleep, without a struggle
true to her God and the faith she had embraced, and it
can be truly said of her she sacrificed her all  for the 
glorious hope which was within her;  she dwells now in a
holier sphere.  Rest, sweet rest at home in heaven.

		Dearest Mary, "thou hast left us
		Here thy loss we deeply feel
		But 'tis God that has bereft us
		He can all sorrows heal."

		"Soon again we hope to meet thee
		When death's gloomy night has fled
		Then again with joy we'll greet thee
		Where no bitter tears are shed."
									M. A.  R. G.
Granger Sept. 13th 1889


OBITUARY.

	Died at her father's residence, at Oakley, Idaho. Sept 3,
1889.  Annie M.  daughter  of  Horton  D. and Louisa
Haight.  Deceased was a noble daughter, and sister in
Zion holding many responsible positions in organized
Societies.  She was counseler in the Primary Association.
Assistant Teacher in Primary Department  of  S.  S.  A
member of the Ward and S, S. Choirs.  A diligent mem-
ber of the Y.  L.  M.  I.  Association.  An active member
of the Home Dramatic Club which was organized by the
desire of the Bishop.  She was true to her mother in the
performance of her duties at home.
	The amiable young lady would have been 18, yrs.
old the 17th of October next.
	May her sleep be sweet, and her resurrection among the
Glorious first and may the Lord minister comfort to the
heart broken family.
	Especially do we sympathize with Brother Horton D.
Jr. who is in his Master’s service in New Zealand.
				Yours Very Respectfully
					SARAH E. ROBINSON.
Oakley.


UNION
PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
Tickets 
ON SALE 
TO ALL 
﻿PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS, 	J. V. PARKER,
City Pass. Agt.	Div.	Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of	
DRY GOODS
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street	

DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence a class in
OBSTETRICS AND NURSING
On Monday, October 14, '89.
Course, Six Months. Tuition, $50.00.
For further particulars address
	DR. M. C. SHIPP,
		34 S. Seventh East Street.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS CAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from.
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of  Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 18.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1889.		No. 10.


CONTENTS.

	A Mother’s Duty.	Hephzibah—A story. A
Law College for Women. Luncheon in the Pine
Woods.—Aunt Em. Prayerfulness.—Mamie Tay-
lor.
	Editorial. The October Conference. Editorial
Notes. A Happy Occasion. The Young
Woman’s Journal. Woman Suffrage.—M. E.
Teasdale.
	Relief Society Conference. R. S. Report.
Queen’s College, Belfast—Englishwoman’s Review
Westminister Abbey.—Hearth and Hall. Notes
and News.
	POETRY.—A Vision.—Ida M. Davis. Lines
Suggested at a Funeral.—C. L. W. Johny is Pack-
ing His Trunk.—S. E. Russell. September.
—Selected.


A VISION.

I stood alone midst the creeping shade
Where ghost-like hands upon my head seemed laid,
That pointed long white fingers to dark wings
Circling around me with weird flutterings,
Outlined like frightened birds against the sky,
Now brushing close my shoulders. Shudderingly
I threw my arms, protecting, o’er my head,
And from those glittering eyeballs fled.
Bnt ever to my quickening pace they sped,
Like lost souls doomed to night, uncomforted.
I cry to Proserpine: "What are these illstarred things?"
And she, from out the gloom, this answer brings:

"They are the spirits of all idle words,
Fated to fill the air like frenzied birds,
That must flee on forever ’gainst the night
Haunting the memory with untiring flight;
The careless words that human lips have sown
Like thoughtless children flinging seeds, wind-blown;
Hopes slain with thoughts by dread Injustice strewn—
The sin for which no victim can atone.”
And I, with sad heart, turning from her knew
The dumb reproach that tears could not undo.
O words, undying as the sunlit heights,
Stay, lest ye wing your way thro' starless nights!
		—IDA M. DAVIS, in the Inter Ocean.


LINES SUGGESTED AT A FUNERAL.

How lavish we strew the sweet-scented flowers,
	O'er the coffin, and graves of the dead,
And speak in loud praise of their virtuous deeds
	But while living a word is ne’er said.

We place on the casket sweet emblems of love,
	We pile beauteous wreaths on the lid;
And award all our praises of good to the corse
	Who, when living not one could be said.

Sweet garlands of Lilies we hang on the bier,
	As tributes of love and respect;
We pile his good deeds on the black coffin lid
	But while living we’d surely neglect.

We deck the white shroud with amaranths fair,
	We kiss the cheek, tear-stained and tanned;
While in life ne’er received the press of our lips,
	Nor hardly the shake of our hand.

We garnish the coffin with tapestry rich,
	And eulogize him that is cold—
We praise all his deeds on his funeral day,
	But when living, not one could be told.

How hollow the cant oer the funeral pall
	How freely the praise they are giving
’Twould be balm to his soul, to praise the poor wretch,
	With a few kindly words, while he’s living.


How costly the hearse that bears the lone corpse,
	To its last resting place 'neath the sod;
And we seemingly wish him a tender good-bye—
	But when living, we'd scarce give a nod.

We solemnly chant o’er his grave a low dirge,
	For him that’s cut down by the "Reaper"—
We quit the sad scene, it fades from our view,
	We forget the lone GRAVE, and the sleeper—
									C. L. W.


A MOTHER’S DUTY.

	There has much been said and written in
regard to the proper training of our children,
and the very great responsibilities resting
upon mothers.  I have had many reflections
upon this subject, and thought I would write a
few of them, and also the conclusion I had
come to upon some few points.
	It seems to be the opinion of the majority,
that the mothers alone are responsible for the
kind of characters their children will bear,
when they grow up to manhood and woman-
hood.
	In my humble opinion, the fathers should
by right, shoulder a good share of this re-
sponsibility, having a better opportunity of 
aquiring knowledge and understanding of those
principles, which are the best calculated, to
lead the youth in to the path which leads to
eternal lives.  It should be the duty of every
father to gather his family around him in the
evening when possible, and teach, and explain
those principles that lay at the foundation of
our holy religion, and how refreshing it would
be to the true mother, to throw aside her
cares for a short time to listen with her children,
to these words of comfort and encourage-
ment which the father should be prepared to
give who fills his mission faithfully as an
Elder in Israel.  She would feel renewed
strength and encouragement, to go forth and
fill her part of the programme, in the proper
training of their children.  Her teaching will
have more effect.  One assists the other.
mothers have a better opportunity to under-
stand the different traits and dispositions of
the children, and are perhaps better calculated 
in their natures to mould their characters, but
they need strength and support which is only
gained through a husband’s love and sympathy.
How many fathers are there, who enter their
homes without any signs of recognition of any of
its inmates, pick up a book or paper, and
are soon so deeply interested in the contents
as to be perfectly oblivious to all that is around
them.  De they ever stop to reflect that per-
haps, wife and children, would be just as
interested as themselves in the contents, if
they had the opportunity.  And if the father 
could be so self-sacrificing as to read aloud
such portions as would be useful, amusing or
instructive it would contribute very much to
the happiness of the home circle. How much
easier the children of such a family could be
controlled.  How much more susceptible their
natures would be to good impresions. Our
children are (or should be) our glory: the
fathers as well as the mothers, And my
private opinion publicly expressed is, where
the parents work hand in hand together, their
children take a greater interest in those institu-
tions which are organized for their benefit.
Primary Associations, Sabbath Schools &c.,
Parents should also attend them thus strength-
ening and encouraging those who preside over
these institutions, and are laboring so faith-
fully in the interest of the youth of Zion:
these are a few of my feelings in regard to
home government;  I trust the expression of
them will do no harm if they will do no good.
	Ever praying for the children of Zion, and 
those interested in their welfare.
	I am as ever a friend to	
	Fair Play.
Aug. 24th 1889.


HEPHZIBAH.
				IX.
	How beautiful in youth the  golden dreams,
		That love and fancy to our vision bring,
	With what bright radiance all the future gleams
		While we just taste at the Pierian Spring.

	To Hepsie her school days were full of joy-
ous anticipation as well as happiness in the
present, for she loved her studies and pored
over her books when others of the class were
totally absorbed in frivolity and fashion, and
in discussing social matters, for they were more
anxious to appear well and gain popularity
than to obtain knowledge to prepare them for
lives of future usefulness.  Hepsie was a long
way from home and did not often see any of
her own family except the sister with whom
she was staying; and this good sister was much
troubled in her mind over her because of her
inclination to wander in the fields and woods,
and give her time so much to solitude instead
of actual life of which she very well knew
there would be great need in the girl's future.
She was practical herself content to “settle
down,” and leave all matters of great moment
to her husband: which Hepsie noticed and
with her individuality could not altogether
countenance, and on one occasion when her
sister had reproved her mildly for not giving
more attention to her wardrobe which she sadly
neglected for her books, and also to take long
walks in the beech woods not far away, she in-
stead of replying to her sisters questioning of
how she spent her time, very impertinently
for one so much younger, began catechizing
Mrs. Severance.
	“Why do you spend all your time waiting
upon a man, who is not as ‘smart’ as you are,
and who never allows you to have any say at
all when he is talking, even about things you
know so much better than he does. ‘You’ll
settle down here I suppose all your life, and
never know nor realize what is going on in
the great world outside, while your husband
will attain a name and distinction among men
possibly, and his wife far more capable, shine
only in his light.”
	“How very wise you think yourself little
one, ‘replied the sister,’ having chosen my
husband out of all the world, I am quite con-
tent he should shine as my bright particular
star at least.”
	“But he is not willing you should shine that
is the point, equality of husband and wife
is the standard for me.”
	“What about St. Paul does he not say wives
should be submissive, and also that they should
learn of their husbands at home? “said Mrs. S.
in reply, “Mrs. Grovsener used to teach her
husband, how does that agree with St. Paul’s
ideas? in fact she told me a great deal about
women helping their husband’s, minister’s
wives and others, and she believed that women
could teach the Scriptures publicly, and that


the Savior thought more of women than minis-
ters do in our day, and that He paid them
more respect.”
	“Hepsie you are hardly old enough to ex-
pound the Scriptures tho’ you were under the 
tutelage of an authority on such matters like
Mrs. Deborah Grovsener.”
	“I am not exactly an oracle perhaps but my
ideas about women are very exalted ones and
I’m quite sure girls ought to have greater ad-
vantages than they do nowadays.”	
	“O, what would you like then pray tell,
you for instance expect to be a teacher, and
from what you have just been saying possibly
you intend to teach the Scriptures as well?”
	“I may, at any rate I believe in it, and I’m
sure mother can quote more Scripture from
memory, than any minister I have heard, they
have it written down in their sermons, but
mother knows the Bible by heart, and more
than that she is not very well satisfied with
our minister at home, she says his sermons
are dry and cold, she often speaks of the
prophecies of Isaiah and Jeremiah and be-
lieves many of them are yet to be fulfilled,
and wonders that the great divines of the day
don’t see these things as she does.”
	“Hepsie you astonish me, the other day you
wanted to convince me you knew all about
love, and now you are discussing religion and
the Scriptures, what next I wonder?”
	“Next, I suppose I must darn stockings, and
mend gloves, and so forth to get back into your
good graces for I can see you think me very
conceited, though you are too clever to say
so;—it is a good thing you don’t know all I
think, you would want to send me away to
some one who could modify me no doubt.”
	“Never mind Hepsie you will grow older
and wiser in time, and although you can’t go
to college, you can in another year at any
rate go to a Ladies Seminary and finish.”
	And so from time to time the two sisters
talked of the advantages and pursuits of men
and women.  Hannah was conservative and
thought her sister a born radical, and she tried
in her quiet way to make her understand how
impossible of fulfillment many of her theories
were.  But a great change was coming of
which either of the sisters had no fore-shadow-
ing, or premonition.  And Hepsie when she
had heard her mother talk of the Scriptures in
a half-prophetic way, little knew how her
mother’s mind was being wrought upon to ex-
amine the Bible herself, and how by careful
investigation and prayer she had arrived at the 
conclusion that the ministers of the day were
in error.  And here for the present we will 
leave the sisters and go back to the quiet 
village nestled among the hills described in our
opening chapter.

     There came to the good old town of B. on 
a gray November day in the year 1841, two
strangers, evidently travelers as their appear-
ance betokened, and they inquired at the Post
Office where they would be likely to get a hall
to preach in or if it would be possible to get
an opportunity to preach in the village
Church—the postmaster who by the bye was 
the leader of the choir, the singing master of 
the little village, began to wonder as neither
their manner nor their grammar, so to speak
savored of college bred ministers, and he be-
gan plying them, Yankee like with questions.
	“What denomination do you belong to
Methodists I presume, as you do not have the
appearance to me of either Baptists, Presby-
terians or Congregationalists?”		
	Before they had time to answer him he in-
formed them that the Church was occupied by
a Congregationalist and he did not believe
any methodist would be allowed to preach 
in it.
	“Well said one of the strangers, ‘we are not
methodists and we would like to see your

[Column 2]
minister and ask permission to preach in the
pulpit.  We have something to tell the
people, good tidings for them.”
	“What good tidings’ said Uncle Rufus as 
he was called throughout the village, ‘new
doctrine where did you come from and what is 
this you want to tell the people?”
	The strangers hesitated a little, but finally
replied, “the doctrines we preach are the same
as taught in the New Testament by the Savior
and his Apostles, and we have come without
purse or scrip more than a thousand miles to 
preach to the people and we want a place to 
speak in, and we hope to have an audience to
night here in this village.”
	“I’ll go with you to the Reverend Edward
M.— replied Uncle Rufus, “but its not much
use I’m afraid, he’s awful strict regular orthor-
dox, wouldn’t let a methodist come inside his
pulpit, for my part I don’t care much for
religion and I'm not afraid to hear Universa-
lists even.” This with an emphasis as though
Universalists were the most heterodox of all the
denominations.
     A few steps brought them to the minister’s,
door and as Uncle Rufus was with the strange
men, they were invited into the parlor—and
then he remembered that he had never asked
their names nor ascertained where they were
from.  However he was not in the least dis-
concerted and said to the minister “here are
two strangers come to ask permission to preach
in the Church to night.  The Rev. E. M.
turned upon them and without ceremony said.
“Who are you that you come without even
sending me your names and ask such a 
privilege?
	“We are Elders sent to preach the Ever-
lasting Gospel and we are not ashamed of our
names or our profession.”
	“Elders, Baptists are you? “And what new
thing have you to tell? “We are not Baptists
but Missionaries called and ordained by proper
authority.”
	“This ‘said the younger man of the two,” is
Elder Farr and my name is Simmonds and we
are Latter-day Saints.”
	“O, I understand “Mormons,” from Nauvoo
I presume, you cannot preach in my Church,
you believe in the Golden Bible and in Joe
Smith who claims to be a Prophet.”
	The Elders tried to explain about the Book
of Mormon and also that Joseph Smith was a 
true Prophet, but all to no purpose, the minis-
ter was furious, his wife hearing the confusion
came to learn what was the matter and asked
the strangers to be seated, and as if to atone
for the rudeness of her husband made some in-
quiries and appeared interested in their mission.
It was all to no purpose her husband was de-
termined and she suggested that the school-
house would hold quite a number of people,
and they could most likely have the privilege
of holding a meeting there.
     The Elders thanked Mrs. M. for the suggest-
ion and rose to go, but the minister’s anger
had been aroused and he vented his ill-will
by saying. “I don’t want to hear your false
doctrine and shall use my influence against 
your teachings while you remain here in
town.  My wife shall not go to the meeting,
I will not in any way give countenance to
men sent out without means to pay their
way, and I can assure you the people of B.
know better than to be carried away by the
romance of a Golden Bible.”
	The Elders saw how useless it was to ex-
postulate and were anxious to go, and they
were convinced that Mrs. M. was anxious to
hear them, from the interest she had mani-
fested, but after his declaration that his wife
should not go, they could only thank her
for her courtesy, and were glad to leave the
house where such a furore had been raised.
     Uncle Rufus too was glad to get away,

[Column 3]
and was now more determined to aid them
in getting a place to preach in for he was
rather fond of variety and in a sober staid
New England village there was not much 
change in those days and he had begun to
think like some others that their minister
orthodox though he was, did not quite under-
stand the needs of the people.  On the way
as they walked along he asked more ques-
tions, and elicited considerable information,
and became deeply interested in their con-
versation.  He helped them secure the school-
house and managed to spread the news through
the village that two “Mormon” Elders all
the way from Nauvoo were going to preach
and there would be something worth hearing.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A LAW COLLEGE FOR WOMEN.
	With eleven students Mme. Emily Kempin
has just opened the first law college in the
world for women. Mme. Kempin is an L. L.
D. from the university of Zurich, Switzerland.
She has three bright children and a husband
who is a Presbyterian. Her eyes are blue
and her complexion blonde. She may be a
trifle above the medium height, is of slender
figure and sits erect and well poised in her
straight-backed chair. She has a face of
sweetness and intelligence, and commands
better English vocabulary than most native
born Americans. Her law office is on Broad-
way. Only three women in all Europe have
graduated in law. One is lecturing in the
University of Bologna, Italy, and another the
daughter of a Belgian judge, and her appli-
cation for admission to the bar of her own
country is now under consideration. The third
is this quiet little Mme. Kempin.  
	To familiarize herself with American law
Mme. Kempin applied for admission to the
Columbia college law school. Some of the
trustees were out of town and it was four
months before she was definitely refused.
Meanwhile she had been quietly attending lec-
tures. From Columbia she went to New
York university and here as a mark of court-
esy to the university of Zurich, but with the
distinct understanding that no precedent was
created, was received. Since beginning, an
independent practice she has become counsel
for the Swiss legation in Washington and
superintendent of the New York arbitration
society and says that the idea of opening a law
school came to her only when repeatedly
questioned by ladies owning property who
wanted information about their own business
contracts, about guardianship, wills and
inheritances. “Suppose,” said her husband,
“you lecture to women to qualify them for the
management of their affairs, or the supervision
of their agents.” Somewhat to Mme. Kempin’s
surprise no ladies have yet applied for these
partial or special courses for property or
business women, but eleven young women
desire to become full-fledged lawyers.


Mrs. Mary E. Sanborn Cox, M. D., has
started a semi monthly in Omaha, Neb., called
“Life and Light.”
	The unanimous report of the suffrage
committee of the constitutional convention
contained the following on woman suffrage:
	“The right of citizens of the state of Wyoming to vote
and hold office shall not be denied or abridged on account
of sex.”
	The Cheyenne Tribune, which is standing
manfully for equal rights for women, says,
“This is not strong enough.  The woman
suffrage plank of the Wyoming constitution
should be so worded that there can be no
possible cavil or dispute over the signification
of the word “citizen.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“JOHNY IS PACKING HIS TRUNK.”
TO MARY.
“Johny is packing his trunk as I write”—
Why comes this thrill to my being’s core, 
Why do I read it o’er and o’er,
And why do the tear drops start ?
“Oh I could weep for my first born goes,
Out from the old Home nest tonight.
My God, may their future lives be blest—”
What do I see as your letter I hold.
What does the past to my vision unfold ?
A sweet faced babe in my arms I clasp,
And gaze upon him in joy enrapt,
He soon gained a place in every heart
And grew of that household band a part,
like a ray of light from babe to man
He brought no Sorrow in all the span,
The home was brighter whene’er he came,
Oh will it ever be the Same?
Free of heart and open of hand
He won him friends throughout the land,
And the Bride who goes forth from her old home too
Where a cherished one she lived and grew,
To share with our boy on life’s ocean wide,
The Bark that must weather wind and tide,
To build a New Home where others may dwell,
Where that “Song of the heart,” may in melody swell.
Here in this far off land I raise,
A deep thanksgiving prayer of praise,
To God who kept him through the day,
When evil snares beset his way;
And may His power around him shine,
’Til home and love grow all divine.
Home should be the spot the nearest heaven,
And home ties the dearest our God hath given;
An altar of love in the Desert Wild,
A rest for earth’s weary toil-stained child;
Oh, sacred the light of the Old Home burns.
And often the Memory backward turns,
To seek a balm for some hidden pain
And gather strength for life’s work again.
God bless the Old Homes and the New,
And help to make them pure and true,
A haven sweet of peace and rest,
Of every spot on earth the best.
	S. E. RUSSEL.
Mesa Sept. 1, 1889.


SEPTEMBER.
BY GEORGE ARNOLD.
Sweet is the voice that calls
From babbling waterfalls 
In meadows where the downy seeds are flying,
And soft the breezes blow
And eddying come and go
In faded gardens where the rose is dying.

Among the stubbled corn
The blithe quail pipes at morn,
The merry partridge drums in hidden places,
And glittering insects gleam
Above the reedy stream,
Where busy spiders spin their filmy laces.

At eve cool shadows fall
Across the garden wall,
And on the clustered grapes in purple turning,
And pearly vapors lie
Along the eastern sky,
Where the broad harvest moon is redly burning.

Ah! soon on field and hill
The winds shall whistle chill,
And patriarch swallows call their flocks together,
To fly from frost and snow.
To seek for lands where blow
The fairer blossoms of a balmier weather.
	
The cricket chirps all day,
“Oh, fairest Summer stay!”
The squirrel eyes askance the chestnuts browning;
The wild fowl fly afar
Above the foamy bar,
And hasten southward ere the skies are frowning.


Now comes a fragrant breeze
Through the dark cedar trees, 
And ’round about my temples fondly lingers,
In gentle playfulness
Like to the soft caress
Bestowed in happier days by loving fingers.

Yet, though a sense of grief
Comes with the falling leaf
And memory makes the Summer doubly pleasant,
In all my Autumn dreams
A future Summer gleams
Passing the fairest glories of the present !
	Selected.


LUNCHEON IN THE PINE WOODS.
	Imagine a long and rather narrow ravine
running up hill, between two mountains thickly
covered with pine trees and shrubbery, the
ravine having formerly been the bed of a river
now dry, or if any water only showing itself
now and then in a few trickling drops, where
it escaped from the yellow soil and rocks that,
had all been turned over and washed in placer
mining. I have designated this a ravine but
these places are called in the mining vernacular
“a gulch,” and this particular one was “Gold
Gulch” I think.
	On a lovely afternoon in one of those mellow
Autumn days, when the leaves are just begin-
ning to be tipped with frost, and nature seems
more perfect for the charming variety of color,
and the sky itself looks softer and bluer than
in summer, a gay party of well-dressed ladies
were wending their way up the Gulch in pur-
suit of pleasure. On and on they clambered
over rocks, stumps and fallen trees, helping
each other occasionally and gathering flowers
of foliage by the way. The woods were fra-
grant with pine odors, and the wind among the
trees was sighing and whispering as though in
soft and gentle welcome to the visitors pene-
trating the deep woods far up among the steep
hills, where no human being seemed to have
made himself felt or known. Finally a place
of rest was selected and blankets spread and
hammocks strung up—the squirrels were the
sole live occupants of these wooded hills, no
birds, were seen but here and there we after-
wards discovered traces of the Yellow-Hammer
or Woodpecker.
	These ladies were guests of Mrs. Garrison of
Murray, and she had previously made ready
for the entertainment. Nor far from the spot
chosen as our resting place in the woods though
down in the Gulch below us, a fire had been
lighted and coffee and tea prepared, and the
table spread with fine white linen on boards,
carried up for the purpose.
	The walk had given the guests a good ap-
petite, and the tempting luncheon was very
inviting.  We were soon seated and partaking
of the choice viands and delicacies and compli-
menting the hostess, when it was discovered all
at once there were “thirteen at the table.” The
conversation immediately turned upon the sign
of this disastrous number, and several inter-
esting and extraordinary accounts were related;
it did not seem however to make any serious
impression upon the party for they were as
merry as possible, but when the meal was
finished and the plates sent away, some one
suggested the idea of the experimemt for all to
take hold of hands and rise at once, which was
accordingly agreed to and the ladies joined
hands and in a moment all rose simultaneously.
This may, or may not be a preventive, but we
were out for a good time and did not intend
to have our spirits dampened, recreation of
this kind is sometimes dearly bought, but that
day the fates were propitious and we were soon
reclining again on the steep hillside, bracing
ourselves against stumps or trees and talking
away as fast as possible. Some of the ladies
had brought fancy work, a pretty occupation

[Column 2]
for beautiful hands, but what were the rest to
do to make some display of talent if not of
beauty. Finally it was agreed that each should
contribute something to the general enjoyment
of the party. And each one used her powers
of persuasion to bring out a song or recitation
from some other one, the result was that Mrs.
Woods recited in its proper style, the humorous
piece, “If I’d had a fair show Joe Barker says
he”—this was loudly applauded, and then
came Miss Frances Geeson who recited and
then Miss Daisie gave us a recitation, and so
on, then Mrs. Woods gave us “The Petrified
Fern,” which seemed appropriate to the woods.
The writer propounded a question to the com-
pany, “Who was the greatest woman the world
had ever known?” This brought a variety of
answers as well as facts in favor of the one
named, and therefore awakened thought, some
said Eve, another Isabella, and still another
Joan of Arc, but the majority agreed that
Mary the mother of Jesus must have been the
greatest. Then followed a dissertation upon
woman suffrage, and in the midst of it a swaying
tree, created a scare and the ladies ran in all
directions, but the tree regained its position
and we all came back, though soon after de-
cided to ramble farther up the “gulch;” some
distance from our rendezvous we found a miner’s
cabin not long deserted, there was the rude
bedstead made of green poles fastened into the
logs—and a bed of cedar boughs still fragrant
—logs rounded for pillows and stools sawed
from logs, a frying pan, an old pipe some
newspapers and other odd things, were left be-
hind. In such rude cabins up among the
wooded hills,men find rest from their day’s toil
of digging for gold. Often these miners are
educated and cultivated gentlemen, sometimes
in search of health but more often of wealth,
but dame fortune is fickle and though some
have luck it is the exception only.
	There’s not much more to tell, day light was
fading and we turned our faces homeward,
chatting as we went along as merrily as ever.
It had been a lovely afternoon, and an enter-
taining interview to be remembered with
pleasure, for the ladies who came together on
this happy occasion, had made it a tribute of
respect to the writer, and she recalls each face
at the moment of this writing with sincere ad-
miration and a distinctive appreciation of the
honor.
AUNT EM.


PRAYERFULNESS.
	We are bidden to pray without ceasing and
to continue constant in prayer.  Paul prayed
for “Timothy without ceasing night or day.”
Now how is it possible to pray without ceasing?
We must have three conditions; first, we must
acknowledge a want, and then we must ac-
knowlege God’s power to supply that want,
then comes the appeal to Him to put forth that
power.
	When we have fully learned the lessons of
our countless wants, the effect will pass into
our very being, and will make us gentle to
others and give a certain childlike meekness to
the whole temper.  Then we must have the
knowledge and belief in God’s power to supply
this; and who will dare to deny that this power
can go beyond any thing we conceive, or
feel.
	Ambition, shame, selfishness, or love, can lay
hold of the mind with a firm, unshaken grasp,
and yet you will refuse to believe in prayerful-
ness.
	When some unpleasant, or unholy thought
steals across us, and something we cannot
banish, try a fervent, though it may be unspoken
a prayer; send to our Father in heaven, one
swift but earnest appeal, and we shall find this
unhallowed thought will trouble us no more.
	MAMIE TAYLOR.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	- 	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	OCTOBER 15, 1889.


THE OCTOBER CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference held during this month
commencing on Friday the 4th, inst. was one of
the most interesting and certainly one of the
largest that has ever convened. Thousands of
people from the several Stakes of Zion, came long
distances, hundreds of miles to attend, and Salt
Lake City and County also made a good represen-
tation in numbers. The people flocked daily
morning and evening in immense crowds. Look-
ing upon the assembled multitude one would not
be likely to conclude that “Mormonism” was
dying out as has been predicted by the outside
world.
	There has never been greater interest mani-
fested by the Latter-day Saints in the teaching
and instruction given, than at the late Conference.
Indeed the Saints seemed so desirous of spiritual
instruction that it was apparent upon their coun-
tenances, as they sat and listened to the words of
life and salvation poured out by the speakers who
addressed them from time to time. It was impos-
sible for all who wished to gain admittance, and
on Sunday afternoon an overflow meeting was
held in the Assembly Hall to accommodate some
of those,who were anxious to attend and also that
more of the Saints might have the privilege of
partaking the Sacrament.
	There were in attendance at this Conference,
Pres. Wilford Woodruff and Pres. George Q.
Cannon, of the First Presidency, and of the
Apostles Pres. Lorenzo Snow, Moses Thatcher,
F. M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, H. J. Grant, and
John W. Taylor, also Daniel H. Wells and John
W. Young. Apostle Franklin D. Richards who
has been for some time suffering from rheuma-
tism was only able to attend and fill his place
among the general authorities on Sunday and
not strong enough to address the congregation.
The morning session on Sunday was one of
special interest to the congregation of the Latter-
day Saints. After the opening exercises usual
in the regular services of the Church,
	PRESIDENT WOODRUFF
said: I will say to this assembly that we purpose
to attend to our businesss matters this morning.
There are quite a number of stakes from which
we have not yet received reports; hence we shall
not present a statistical statement to the Confer-
ence. We purpose this morning to present the
authorities of the Church. President Cannon will
submit them for your action.
	President George Q. Cannon then presented
the authorities to be voted upon by the general
assembly, as follows:
	Willford Woodruff, as Prophet, Seer and Reve-
lator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in all the world.
	George Q. Cannon, as First Counselor in the
First Presidency.

[Column 2]
	Joseph F. Smith, as Second Counselor in the
First Presidency.
	Lorenzo Snow, as President of the Twelve
Apostles.
	As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles
—Lorenzo Snow, Franklin D. Richards, Brigham
Young, Moses Thatcher, Francis M. Lyman, John
H. Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant and
John W. Taylor.
At this point

PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF,
arose and spoke as follows:
	I wish to say to this assembly of Latter-day Saints
that there are three vacancies in the Quorum of
the Twelve Apostles, in consequence of the or-
ganization of the First Presidency. We have felt
that it is time to fill that quorum now, this con-
ference, and the people should be prepared for
the presenting by the Twelve Apostles of such
names as they may feel by the Spirit of God to
be worthy and proper persons to receive this or-
dination or to occupy this position. These
Apostles are Prophets, Seers and Revelators. I
have confidence in them; I believe they have
power to present such things as would be in ac-
cordance with the will of God. They (the
Apostles) presented to me a list of names. I wish
here to say, and I want it understood, that neither
myself. President George Q. Cannon nor Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, who are my Counselors,
presented any of these names. We left it with the
Quorum of the Apostles. I became thoroughly
satisfied that they had upon that list such names
as would be acceptable unto the Lord. We look
those names and made it a matter of prayer, and
the Spirit of the Lord manifested unto me those
whom we should appoint. They have all been
accepted by the Quorum of the Apostles as well
as the Presidency of the Church. I have a rea-
son for making these remarks.
	After President Woodruff had taken his seat,
President Cannon resumed the presentation of the
authorities, submitting the names of the follow-
ing three brethren for appointment to the Apostle-
ship, to fill the three vacancies in the Quorum of
the Twelve before referred to:
	Mariner W. Merrill, Anton H. Lund, Abraham
H. Cannon.
	Counselors to the Twelve Apostles—John W.
Young and Daniel H. Wells.
	The Counselors in the First Presidency and the
Twelve Apostles, with their Counselors, as
Prophets, Seers, and Revelators.
	Patriarch to the Church: John Smith.
	First Seven Presidents of the Seventies: Henry
Herriman, Jacob Gates, Seymour B. Young, C. D.
Fjeldsted, John Morgan and B. H. Roberts.
	Wm. B. Preston as Presiding Bishop, with
Robert T. Burton as his Firstand John R. Winder
as his Second Counselor.
	Franklin D. Richards as Church Historian and
General Church Recorder.
	John Jaques as Assistant Church Historian and
General Church Recorder.
	As the Church Board of Education: Wilford
Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, George Q. Cannon,
Karl G. Maeser, Willard Young, George W.
Thatcher, Amos Howe, Anton H. Lund, James
Sharp.
	Joseph Don Carlos Young, as General Church
Architect.
	John Nicholson, as Clerk of the Conference.
	The vote upon each of the persons named for
the positions specified was unanimous.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Brother Graves of Provo, Supt. of Utah County
Silk Association, wants to hear of all those who
wish to go into the silk raising either in Utah or
adjacent.  He would like such persons as desire
to interest themselves practically in seri-culture

[Column 2]
﻿to communicate with him by writing. Address
Daniel Graves, Provo, Utah C. Utah.
	Mrs. M. E. Vanschooven of this City who has
been engaged in medical studies and practice for
some years past, and has become so well and
favorably known in that department, has gone
East to finish her studies in medicine and surgery
in order to graduate as a regular M. D. Mrs. Van-
schooven has been at college in Ann Arbor
previously for some time, but will now remain
permanently until she has finished a thorough
course of medical training in the college at Ann
Arbor, Michigan. She left the city in September
and will not return until June of next year. As
Mrs. Van has made herself quite helpful to the
people here she will be greatly missed by a 
wide circle of friends and patrons. Dr. Pratt will
have charge of Mrs. Vanschooven’s patients in
her absence. Her address is No. 6, Church Street,
Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young has received a very
pleasant letter recently from Wm. Cox Allen M.
D. a resident of Ft. Mc’Leod, Canada, in which
he expresses himself much pleased with the ac-
quaintance of Mr. and Mrs. Card and family and
were at the time of writing his guests; and he
also mentions his great regret in not meeting
Mrs. Young when she visited her daughter last
year and politely invites her to come again, when
he hopes to have the honor of her acquaintance
not only at the residence of her daughter, but to
entertain them all in his own home. Mrs. Zina Y.
Card speaks of Dr. Allen in a letter to her mother
as one of the honorable men of the earth, ex-
tremely kind to our people, and quite interested
in the principles of the Gospel; she describes him
as elderly with snow white hair and as resembl-
ing the late President Taylor. 
The inaugural meeting after the summer vaca-
tion of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 17th ward in this
city was held at the residence of Mrs. M. Y.
Dougall, Thursday evening September 19th, Mrs.
Julia C. Howe presiding. Mrs. Dougall’s large
and commodious parlors were well filled and the
exercises were of a most pleasing character. The
roll call was responded to with a motto or verse,
and after singing, prayer was offered by Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp. The exercises were so diversi-
fied and arranged as to be vastly entertaining
instead of a sameness as is frequently, almost un-
avoidably the case. There are some very talented
young ladies in this Association and they combine
their efforts on such occasions to make a success. 
Their President Mrs. Howe has taken unlimited
pains to develop the spiritual talent and gifts of
the girls over whom she has presided with un-
common tact and dignity. There were excellently
written articles on religious subjects and a corres-
pondence between two young girls Miss Nettie
Alder and Miss Lucy Smith essays Miss Ella
Dallas and other young ladies whose names are
not known to the writer, that were specially choice;
treating upon topics that few young women would
have selected much less been able to handle, yet
these girls discussed the grave questions in a very
able manner, and certainly deserve the commen-
dation of those who had the pleasure of listening.
A song or rather a hymn was rendered in a most 
effective style and particularly good voice by Miss
Viola Pratt there was telling instrumental music
on the piano by Miss Margie Dwyer, and later in
the evening a duet by Misses M. E. and W. C. Pratt.
Brief remarks were also made by several of the
invited visitors, Sister M. A. Freeze, Nellie Cole-
brook, Mary P. Young, Elder Junius F. Wells,
Elder Noel, W. B. Dougal and Sister B. W. 
Smith, R. B. Pratt, S. M. Kimball, E. B. Wells,
and Zina D. H. Young. The evening was in very
deed a most profitable one and many valuable
suggestions were made both by the exercises and
the speakers. After reading of programme sing-


ing and benediction, meeting adjourned and the
company were invited to partake of ice cream and
other refreshments.  There seemed nothing lack-
ing to render the evening wholly enjoyable to all
present.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A HAPPY OCCASION.
	At the residence of Mrs. Libbie R. Pratt in the
17th, Ward, in this city there was a joyful meeting
of Sisters in the faith and fellowship, to celebrate
the birthday anniversary of the venerable mother
in Israel, Mrs. Sarah D. Rich, widow of the late
Apostle Charles C. Rich, who on that day reached
the age of 75 years.  Her daughter Sarah Jane
Miller was present and also Ben Rich from Ogden,
and Mrs. Pratt at whose residence the party met is
also a daughter of the respected lady in whose
honor they had convened together.
	There were present of the sisters whose names
are familiar in Zion for zeal in good works, Aunt
Presendia L. Kimball, and her sister Pres. Z. D. H.
Young, Sisters Mary Ann M. Pratt, Adelia Ann
B. Pratt, Marion R. Pratt, Margaret Merrill, Sarah
M. Young, Lydia Y. Merrill, Ella Merrill, also
Sisters Jane Taylor and Mary Ann Taylor and
others. Sisters Amanda G. Kimball, Harriet S
Kimball, Julia L. Raleigh, Nebecher, Brown,
Mary Bawton, Winegar and daughter. All
the sisters named were widows but two, and
twelve of these were residents of Nauvoo, and
a more self-reliant and honorable assemblage of
ladies could not have met together.  Sister
Rich has been a member of the Church 54 years
and is the last one of her father’s family remain-
ing.  She was recomended four times by different
persons to be the wife of Apostle Rich before they
saw each other, and became engaged to him by
correspondence.  She accepted the law of celestial
marriage and by mutual consent she and her
husband entered practically upon that principle
which will bring her great joy in the Kingdom of
heaven.
	The afternoon was spent in pleasant conversa-
tion and partaking of the bounties provided by
willing hands.
	The evening was devoted to religious exercises,
and the gifts and blessings of the gospel were
made manifest, that the Savior promised to all
who would receive His truthful message and walk
in the light of the everlasting gospel.
	Sister Rich had been failing in health
but the event revived her spirits and made her feel
that she was not forgotten.
	The EXPONENT adds congratulations, wishing
her days to be full of peace and joy and her en-
trance into the celestial kingdom glorious beyond
expression.


THE YOUNG WONAN’S JOURNAL.
	We have received the initial number of this new
magazine, published in the interests of the young
people’s Associations, and also for the benefit of
all the young women of Zion. The work is very
neat in appearance and printed on good paper in
clear type, and contains 32 pages of reading mat-
ter.  It is divided into departments, first Literary,
second, Our Girls, third, House and Home, fourth
Dress, fifth Health and Hygiene, this last depart-
ment is edited by Romania B. Pratt, M.D., who is
thoroughly capable of undertaking work of this
kind both by education and experience.
	The October number of the journal is full of in-
teresting matter in its several departments; the
literary articles are from the pens of able writers
who are well-known to the reading public in Utah.
The Hymn by Ruby Lamont, that opens this num-
ber is a gem, “Bereavement,” a poem by Josephine
Spencer is touchingly beautiful in sentiment,
“Longing” by Lu Dalton is a poem of real merit
as all her productions are, and “A Voice From


The Daughters Of Zion,” by Hope is well suited
to the advent of the journal and significant of its
mission. “Baby’s Brass Nickle” by Lula must
not pass unnoticed for Lula is the children’s
writer and special advocate, some of her best
poetical efforts have been put forth to help and to
amuse and teach principle to the little ones in
Zion.  The stories will doubtless please the young
people, we have not read them and therefore can
only judge them from our knowledge of the
writers and the themes. “Aunt Polly’s Letter,” a
description of the old home is decidedly well-
written, “Our Dumb Animals,” No. 1. by Zina B.
Crocheron is an effort in a somewhat new direc-
tion by our girls, and as it is a prolific subject and
one not much treated upon in our local papers,
it will probably be made amusing and instruc-
tive.  The house and dress department will doubt-
less serve the purpose for which intended, as it is
a clear field in this line.
	The editor, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, starts out
with everything favorable to a successful enter-
prise, and as she loves the work she has under-
taken, it will be comparatively easy because she
will put her heart in it, and with the cooperation
of the young ladies it ought to succeed finan-
cially.  It is the organ of the Young Ladies
Mutual Improvement Associations, and will there-
fore be an avenue whereby many questions may
by asked and answered, this making it specially
helpful to the organized work; the essays and
manuscript papers have a place assigned them in
the journal, and they will no doubt improve this
opportunity to discuss social and religious ques-
tions and subjects.  There is no danger of too
much cultivation mentally, morally and spiritually
and while advocating the development of the
mind and heart we should not forget physical
culture either.  We heartily wish the new journal
success in the field of literature.  It is published
at the Juvenile Instructor Office in this city.
Price of subscription, $2.00 per year.


[Column 1]
﻿WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE.
WRITTEN FOR AND READ BEFORE THE W. S. A.
		OF JUAB COUNTY.
	Having enrolled my name as a member of the
Suffrage Association, and believeing that when
we become members of any association it is our
duty to respond to every call, and to do our ut-
most to make it a success, I desire not simply to
be a member but a worker in this noble cause we
have espoused. I believe in the physical, moral,
intellectual, spiritual and political education of wo-
man. She should have the privilege of pursuing
the same studies as her brother, that she may be a
companion to him and be able to converse intelli-
gently on any subject that interests him. If wo-
man’s whole time is occupied in domestic duties,
and she takes no time to improve her mind or in-
crease her intelligence, how can she impart to her
children that intelligence which will make them
men and women of renown in their own day and
time?
	Each generation should be brighter and better
in every respect than the one that preceded it, but
how can this  be possible unless women are edu-
cated, and liberated from the bondage they are
under? Woman cannot impart to her children
lofty aspirations, love of freedom and of country,
she can not produce patriots, unless she breathes
the air of freedom and has the love of country
burning in her bosom.
	The Fathers of our country are praised and
honored by posterity for the part they took in
obtaining freedom, and for the hardships they en-
dured in colonizing a new country. But did we
not have mothers of our country who should not
be forgotten. They too, are entitled to our homage,
for did they not endure the sufferings and priva-

[Column 2]
tions as heroically as our Fathers did? Did they
not prove their loyalty and patriotism in laying all
upon the altar and sacrificing husbands, sons and
brothers in defense of their country?
	Strange that when that country for which wo-
man sacrificed and suffered, was secured from
tyranny and bondage, and the Constitution framed
which is the best and most perfect of any on
earth, that her rights should be ignored and she
have no voice in the making of the laws or of
electing the law-makers. Stranger still that while
thousands of precious lives were lost, and millions
of money expended in emancipating the negros,
the mothers, wives and daughters of those patri-
otic soldiers were, now are, in political bondage.
Is not taxation without representation as unjust
and oppressive now as it was in the days of the
Revolution? I think so, yet women are suffering
from this very cause today. Woman is amenable
to the law and if she breaks a law she is punished
the same as man is. If she holds property she is
taxed, yet she has no voice in saying who shall
handle that money or how it shall be expended.
	Who is more interested in the education of
children than their mothers, but mothers can-
not vote for school elections even, except in a few
of the states where women have secured this
privilege by agitation and perseverance, and
therefore they can not say who shall educate their
children.
	If women had the Franchise they could wield a
power for good that would not only affect them-
selves and the present generation but would effect
millions yet unborn. If they were united they
could stop the spread of intemperance, by pro-
hibition the sale of that dreadful curse to man-
kind, Alcohol. Who suffers more than women
from the effects of Alcohol? Men drink it and
women take the consequences. If women voted
they could raise the wages of working women who
now by the thousands are struggling for an ex-
istence on starvation wages, and many go to their
destruction to escape a life of misery and want.
Shall we sit supinely down because our lot has
fallen in better places than those just described,
and say we don’t believe in Woman’s rights, we
have all the rights we want”—when there is so
much suffering, and so much to be done in this
world of ours? If we are true women, if we
have all the rights we want, we will not rest satis-
fied until others who are not so fortunate as we
are, shall have their rights secured to them. We
should be like Mrs. Fry whose Philanthrophy
caused many of her sex to reform and lead better
lives, by her visiting the prisons and establishing
schools for the depraved unruly inmates, who
blessed her name for her goodness. Can not we
follow her noble example, and do something to
benefit our sex? Woman should be the friend of
woman in every condition and position in life.
	I claim that a woman who does the same work
as a man, if she does it as well and works as many
hours, should have the same wages that he has.
But how is it today in our own loved Territory,
and it is much better here than it is in other parts
of our country, a common laboring man receives
$1.50 per day, while his sister who works as long
and just as hard, gets 50cts. a day, just a third of
what her brother gets, and why? Simply because
she is a woman, and has not been educated to
value her time and labor, and to demand for them
a just remuneration as he has. Numerous cases
might be mentioned with which we are all
familiar, where women school teachers and clerks
in stores, who spend as many hours in as faithful
labor, and are as well qualified for the positions
as the men who perform the same kind of labor,
who only receive a third or perhaps in some in-
stances half as much salary as men do. I have a
friend, a woman, who is a good efficient school
teacher, who loves her work and devotes a great
deal of time, besides her school hours, that her
scholars might advance more rapidly, who is as


well qualified, and as capable a teacher as her
husband, who is also a teacher, but the trustees, all
being men, will not pay her half as much as they
do him, while her husband says she works harder
than he does and is just as capable of managing a
school as he is. How unjust! Is it not time that
women awake from the lethargy and indifference
that binds them, and employ every legitimate
means within their power to emancipate their sex.
May our association prove a success in accom-
plishing the ends for which it was organized.
	M. E. TEASDALE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]

﻿RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The first Semi Annual Conference of the
Relief Society was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this City on Monday Oct. 7,
1889 commencing at ten a. m. Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young presiding. There was a good atten-
dance, the hall being pretty well filled. Meet-
ing opened by singing the hymn beginning

"Let us pray gladly pray" etc.

Prayer was offered by Mrs. S. M. Kimball
Continued with singing.

"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation"

	The secretary then presented the names of
the officers of the Central Board as follows
and they were unamimously sustained.
	President Zina D. H. Young,First Counselor
Jane S. Richards, Second Counselor Bathsheba
W. Smith, Secretary Sarah M. Kimball, Ass't.
Sec. Romania B. Pratt, Cor. Sec. Emmeline
B. Wells, Treasurer M. Isabella Horne.
	The names of the Stake Presidents of the
Relief Society were then read and they were
sustained by vote of the Conference.
	An address of welcome was made by the
President in which she invoked the blessing of
heaven upon all the congregation and greeted
them most cordially, gave words of encourage-
ment, and told them she felt herself surrounded
by Eves yea even the queens of this world and
believed that the works and labors which they
would perform, would entitle them to occupy
such positions. Welcomed one and all, rejoiced
in the Gospel and the blessings and privileges
it brought to the people, spoke eloquently of
the children of the Saints, wished the Stake
Presidents to represent the condition of the
Society in each Stake.
	Pres. Harriet A. Snow of Utah, Box
Elder, Stake said she had visited the most
remote parts of the Stake, and felt they were
as near to her heart as the others; at Park
Valley the meetings had been postponed on
account of the President's having to attend
upon the sick so much, but the sisters were as
zealous and as earnest there as in other places;
she enjoyed the meeting there very much.
Spoke of her interest in storing wheat, and
gave an excellent report of the sister's labors.
	Pres. Jane S. Richards, "I can say some good
things for Weber Co. The sisters enjoy a good
degree of the Holy Spirit. We, myself and
Counselors visit around the Stake regularly;
the local sisters rise up three and four at once
sometimes, they are so full of the spirit and of
testimony; we advise meeting together often
and that they read the address of Sister Zina,
which was given here at our last Conference
and published for our benefit, it contains the
instruction that is needed; read it over and it
will seem new and good, we advocate the
holding of Quarterly Conferences in the
various stakes, and of saving grain and the
duties of taking care of the sick and needy,
and charity to the erring, and lifting up those
who are weak and bowed down in spirit; in
doing this we shall be blest, and rejoice, and
our faith will be renewed."
	Pres. Susan Grant, Davis Stake, had good
Counselors that were a great help and blessing
to her, encouraged the sisters to come to meet-

[Column 2]

ing and partake of the good spirit, rejoiced in
the Gospel and felt happy in the performance
of duty from day to day.
	Pres. Mary John, Utah Stake, felt it a great
honor to be one of the Relief Society and
take an active part in this great work in her
humble way; had visited all the branches but
two, there were twenty-two in all; Sister Zina
had been with them in visiting, spoke of the
Woman's Exponent urging the sisters to take
it, and read it, that they might be posted upon
what was being done here and elsewhere, it
would do them good, felt happy in the duties
of her calling and wished to be faithful.
	Mrs. Anna Woodbury Counselor to Pres.
Ivins, St George Stake, spoke of the scattered
condition of the Relief Society and the long
distances the sisters must travel to visit each
branch organization; and the difficulties to be
encountered in going to the fartherest places.
Yet they made a practise of visiting all around
once a year. She felt to shed tears of joy
when young men would rise up and bear
testimony of the truth of the Latter-day work;
felt much interested in the young people,
spoke of the silk culture and what had been
accomplished by the sisters there; thought St.
George was the home of the mulberry, a
gentleman who had been accustomed to
countries where silk was an industry had re-
marked that the climate was specially adapted
to its culture, she and some other sisters had
perservered in the labor and had made some
money by sending the cocoons to Washington
Some of the sisters there had received
though they had only received 90cts. per lb.
nineteen dollars, that was something, and she
believed that success might yet result through
diligence and perseverance in the work.
	Sister Zina; made some remarks upon silk,
her belief as to its becoming a source of
revenue, and spoke of the great love she had
for the sisters, thought the angels were around
about us, and that those who had been our
associates in these labors heretofore might per-
haps meet with us; hoped we would have zeal ac-
cording to knowledge, thought the sisters
should take the EXPONENT and read it, and
interest themselves on the questions of the day,
and become familiar with the spirit of the times
and what was transpiring in the world,
	Dr. Pratt then read a part of the minutes of
the first organization of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo.
	Pres. Mary Pitchforth, Juab Stake, spoke
of the Relief Society organization and how
she had seen it in a vision many years ago,
and she realized the fulfillment of it to-day;
thought when the sisters were healed, as she
knew of many instances, where they had
been instantly healed, that God should have
the glory instead of the Doctor. Spoke kindly
of the teachers in their stake, and the dili-
gence and faith they manifested in visiting
every month even in the winter time to look after the
needy., Related a dream she had of Sister
Eliza she came to the house and wanted to go to
the meeting with her at home in Nephi after
some preliminaries before starting for the meet-
ing Sister Eliza had given her some instruct-
ions what to teach—first of all the judgments
of God; and mothers teach your children to
eat and drink only those things that will make
their bodies pure—and preserve them from
disease and evil influences, only the Lord can
hear our prayers and save us from the contam-
inating influences that will assuredly come.
	Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith felt almost as
if she could shout Hosanna she rejoiced in hear-
ing the words of Joseph the prophet that had
been read, felt blessed in the Society and in all
the meetings of the Saints; "take pains sisters
to search out the needy and the sick, we know
the prayer of faith will heal the sick, and we
will give our Father in heaven the glroy."
	Pres. Jane E. Walton, San Juan Stake had

[Column 3]

come 500 miles to attend the Conference said
her intention was when she went home to visit
the Mancos and Burnham wards, spoke of the
disadvantages under which the sisters labored
in that Stake because of the great distances to
be traversed to come together.
	Sister Kimball read from the Relief Society
record concerning the angels and said Sister
Zina's remarks on that subject had brought that
saying of the prophet's to her mind.
	Lula G. Richards read a poem written for
the occasion.

WOMAN'S THOUGHT AND WOMAN'S WORK.

Written for the Relief Society Conference, Oct. 7. 1889.
	When inspiration from the worlds on high,
	Moves in the hearts of wise and gifted men,
	They bring forth thoughts and deeds that never die,
	Slumber they may, at times, but by-and-bye,
	With force and power renewed they wake again.

	Nor sons alone our Father thus inspires,
	His daughters may the rich communion share;
	When woman's heart is filled with good desires,
	And, for the path of light, she too enquires,
	God always hears her pure and humble prayer.

	Mark how Rebecca with her mother-heart
	Asked God, "If it is so, why am I thus?"
	The knowledge which she sought, God did impart,
	She felt its truth, which, doubtless, made her start,
	Oh! what a lesson, sisters, this should be to us!

	We fly to doctors when we chance to think,
	"There's something wrong, I wonder what it is!"
	To pay a five or ten we do not shrink,
	For doctors' wise opinion, scowl and wink—
	Is God's advice so cheap we trust not His?

	Enough of this; that in this latter time,
	God to his handmaids speaks we surely know;
	Thousands of us, from many a land and clime,
	Have heard—and felt it was God's words sublime—
	Given through our prophet poetess, our E. R. Snow.

	Nor she alone, our loved and honored Pheobe,
	And (also gone,) our patient, kind Marinda,
	Spake often thus, inspired and sacred truths;
	And with us still, dear Zina and Bathsheba,
	Our ever faithful and devout Presendia,
	How their sweet words the drooping spirit soothes!

	And thousands more, let not one heart feel slighted,
	We all may work, Christ teaches where and how:
	Let every lamp be filled, and trimmed and lighted,
	To Father's joyons feast we're all invited,
	And almost taste the good things, even now.

	But here, we reach what I first thought to mention,
	A holy sample, yea, a sacred symbol;
	That, through our Father's love and condescension,
	This grand Relief Society first held convention,
	In the bright brain of Sister Sarah M. Kimball.

	The thought was her's, God gave it; and she ran,
	As duty bade to the Prophet Joseph Smith;
	Broached unto him the subject of her plan,
	That flash of light was truth, from thence began,
	Our organizations and our work forthwith.

	"Do good," the Prophet said, "relieve the poor,
	Comfort the sorrowing, bless each other oft,
	Save souls, teach woman to be chaste and pure,
	That crowns of righteousness all may secure,
	Encourage those bowed down to look aloft.

	Wash and anoint the sick, beneath your hands,
	Those not to death appointed, shall revive;
	Let no man say you nay, what God commands,
	The pure and humble spirit understands,
	And through it oft, the dead are made alive.

	Never, without the Sisters' Organization,
	Will Christ's true Church be organized in full;
	It tends to peace, to union and salvation,
	Cannot degrade, but brings true elevation.
	Working against those pow'rs which downward pull."

	Thus spake the Prophet, though a woman's thought
	Had been the impetus to this great work;
	Our noble Sarah all these years hath taught,
	Is with us still, "Behold what God hath wrought!"
	Think on, work on, my Sisters, never shirk!


[Column 1]

Sister Sarah M. Kimball explained after
the poem had been read that in sentiment it
was true, but that she had suggested the or-
ganization of a benevolent society to some
ladies who had met by invitation, at her home
in Nauvoo. A committee was appointed to
draft constitution and by-laws, and when these
were subsequently shown to the Prophet
Joseph, he said he had something better for
the sisters and called a meeting and organized
the Relief Society.
	Meeting adjourned until seven in the eve-
ning singing,

"Lord dismiss us with our blessing''

	Brother Graves of Provo gave some notices
concerning silk etc. Benediction by Sister
Judith Higbee.

CASSIA STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Cassia Stake was held at Oakley,
Sept. 20, 1889.
	Pres. Louisa Haight presided; her
Counselors were also present with presidents
of the several branches: of the brethren, M.
Pickett counselor to Stake President; R.
Wilson, Patriarch, and others; also Pres. H.
D. Haight at afternoon session.
	The opening exercises were followed by
verbal reports of the several branches by res-
pective presidents, showing the members of
each to be feeling interested in their work and
doing as well as inconvenient circumstances
would admit.
	President Haight and her Counselors Sisters
Tuttle and Wilson, in turn addressed the
Conference giving much timely instruction;
were glad to hear of the interest taken by the
members, their duties were as urgent as those
of the officers; we may as well step down and
out if we do not take an interest in this work;
we must throw off timidity and put on the
armor of faith; must put away our work
when time comes for us to attend to some duty
in the Church, the Lord's work first our own
afterwards; must watch over our children
every day and teach principles of the Gospel.
	Sister Melissa Homer bore her testimony;
said she was grateful to our Heavenly Father
for having given the Gospel to the earth;
rejoiced to be numbered with His Saints; we
need to be taught every day that we may be
prepared for his coming.
	Sister Annie Bird spoke at some length ex-
horting the sisters to appreciate the day in
which they lived; to be diligent and improve
that they may have no wasted time to account
for; to seek after the pleasures of eternity for
those of this life are fleeting; to be worthy of
a future inheritance of which no power could
rob them.
	The afternoon session of the Conference was
turned into a testimony meeting.
	President H. D. Haight was the first to
address the meeting, spoke of his recent at-
tendance at the dedication of the Bear Lake
Stake house; of the strong testimonies of some
of the leading brethren there: This was a day
of sifting, the weak would fall by the way:
must do our duty to day, not wait for any set
time as a New Year etc., many who bear
faithful testimonies and have good desires,
trifle with the same and act contrary to them.
	Brother Robert Wilson, spoke at some
length; said the time was near when it would
be all the saints could do with a testimony
alive in their hearts to stand faithful; it would
take all their faith, and good works, to endure
what they would have to pass through; they
must follow in the footsteps of the servants of
God who had faced death for the Gospel's
sake; spoke of the happiness that would be
brought about by a perfect unity, such as made
Jesus and the Father one.

[Column 2]

	Sister Adelia Brim said "the still small
voice" within bore testimony to her of this
work.
	Brother J. G. Smith said like the Apostle
Paul, he was not ashamed of the Gospel and
spoke at length on its principles and beauties.
	Brother M. Pickett spoke of the revelation
given to the Prophet Joseph concerning the
sisters duties in expounding and teaching
principles of the Gospel; said if any were
needing financial help it was better if possible
to give them employment; assist them to help
themselves instead of making them dependent
objects of Charity. Testimonies were borne by
Sisters Tanner, McBride, Grant and Craner.
Also Bro. John L. Smith. Stake Authorities
of the Society were presented and sustained by
the Conference which, was then adjourned for
three months.
		LOUISA PICKETT, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


QUEEN’S COLLEGE, BELFAST.

	THE MEDICAL CLASSES OPENTO LADIES.
—The Northern Whig announces: That a
significant and important step has been re-
solved upon in the Queen's College. It ap-
pears that for some time the College author-
ities have had before them an application from
a number of ladies who desire to enter the
medical classes with a view to studying for
medical degrees. Hitherto these classes have
been closed against them, and consequently
women who desired such training had to go
elsewhere. After due deliberation, the appli-
cation of these ladies has been granted. A
meeting of the Medical Faculty of the College
held to consider the matter unanimously re-
solved upon acceding to the request. When 
the classes re-open, therefore, at the close of the
long vacation, we may expect to see mingling
with the usual medical students a new infusion
of the members of the softer sex, bent on initi-
ation into the mysteries of the healing art. By
and by, we have no doubt, we shall have in
Belfast, and over the province, a number of 
worthy compeers of such medical ladies as Dr.
Sophia Jex-Blake, Dr. Garret, Anderson, Dr. 
Edith Pechey, and numerous others who have
attained distinction in the profession. The ques-
tion of admission to the classes having been tested
and decided in favor of the applicants, we hear
that they will be joined in their studies next
session by other young ladies, some of whom
belong to well-kown Belfast families. In
coming to the decision which we have men-
tioned the College authorities have shown their
desire to keep abreast of the educational
necessities of the province. In other places
ladies who have gained the right to append
M. D. to their names have been most success-
ful in practice. Especially in the treatment of
the diseases of women and children, their
services have proved most acceptable in many
places, and just at present the requirements of
that splendid Society which owes its existence
to a noble daughter of our own province—the
Association for Supplying Female Medical
Aid to the Women of India, founded as we all
know, a few years since by the Marchioness of
Dufferin—demanded the services of as many
properly trained medical women as can be ob-
tained. The same is true of the various
Zenana Mission schemes. It is well known
that Hindoo women are not allowed to be 
treated by medical men, and, as the Mar-
chioness of Dufferin states in an excellent
article which appeared some years ago in the
Asiatic Quarterly Review, "They never do ex-
cept in the last extremity, when the doctor so
admitted to a Zenana enters with his head in a
bag, or remains outside the purdah, feeling his
patient's pulse, but unable to make any of the
necessary examinations.” Not to speak there-
fore, of the field which is undoubtedly opening
[column 2]
more and more at home to ladies trained to 
pursue medicine as a profession, the action of
our Belfast Queen's College will now open to
the women of the North of Ireland an avenue
at their own door by which they will be able to
qualify themselves for the service of their sex
in India in connection with such beneficent in-
stitutions as we have mentioned. The Medical
School of Belfast College has long since ob-
tained just celebrity, and we have no doubt
that this new departure which it has made
will commend itself to public approval and 
add to its usefulness and probably also to its
prestige. Other distinguished seats of learning
such as the University of Paris and the London
University, have opened the doors of their
medical class-rooms to women. In the Royal
University of Ireland they are eligible for the 
medical degrees and other honors, and, now
that a local demand has arisen for their ad-
mission into our Queen's College, the author-
ities were undoubtedly right in taking the
action to which we refer. We understand that
the Rev. Dr. Hamilton, the recently appointed 
president of the College, has manifested much
interest in the subject, and was strongly in
favor of the step which has been very properly 
taken.
				Englishwoman's Review.


WESTMINSTER ABBEY.

[Concluded.]

WESTMINSTER PALACE.

	The location of this building, which no
longer exists, was opposite the present houses
of parliament. This palace was occupied by
the kings from Saxon times until Henry VIII
went to Whitehall. It was in this palace that
Edward the Confessor entertained William,
Duke of Normandy. That friendly visit was
the beginning of the proceedings which were
to terminate in the conquest of England.
Within those walls sat the house of commons
from 1547 to 1834. There was heard the
eloquence of Chatham,Fox,Grattan,Pitt,Burke,
and Canning—a remarkable galaxy of orators
truly! Westminster palace has been a great
theater of action. The infamous "star
chamber" was also in the building. The
chamber, built by Henry VIII, got its name
from the gilded stars on the ceiling. In that
place the prosecutor and judge were con-
founded. Every punishment, except death,
could be inflicted—imprisonment, pillory,
branding and whipping. It was in the star
chamber that William, Bishop of Lincoln, was
fined five thousand pounds for calling Laud
"The Great Leviathan." Here we have a clear
picture of the tyranny of the time. The bodies
of Earl Chatham and his son William Pitt lay
in state in this palace, as likewise that of Mrs.
Claypole, Cromwell's favorite daughter.
	The princes' chamber in the palace was
where the great Chatham died. The well
known picture of Copley has made the occa-
sion familiar to us. It was in the cellar of this
building that Guy Fawkes made his dastardly
attempt to blow up the structure, November 5,
1605. This edifice was burned October 16,
1834.
	We shall here refer to the clock tower of the
houses of parliament. It is probably unex-
celled in magnificence in the world, and occu-
pies nearly the same site as the old tower of
Edward I, which  contained the famous bell
called the "Old Tom." It is reported that a
man's life was once saved by the clock's strik-
ing thirteen times at midnight. The man was
endeavoring to prove an alibi, and it was by the
unusual circumstance of the clock's striking
thirteen that he was enabled to do so; for had
he committed the crime of which he was ac


cused he must have been far away from the
sound of the clock.

		WESTMINSTER HALL.
	This famous place had its location near the
houses of parliament.  Perhaps no place in
England is more replete in historical remi-
niscence than is Westminster hall.  Many im-
portant state trials as well as banquets took
place there.  To take the former in order, we
have first the famous one of Charles I.  Then
come the trial and acquittal of the seven
bishops, in the reign of James II.  In this
place Lord Lovat, the wicked Lord Byron, in
1765, and Warren Hastings, in 1768, were
tried.  The trial of Warren Hastings is known
to everybody in the brilliant pages of Macaulay.
In this grand hall coronation banquets took
place, from the time of William Rufus, for
whom it was named, to that of George IV. For
several centuries it was the seat of the courts,
and until recently, when a building of great
extent was erected for the purpose, near Temple
Bar.
	It will be remembered that a few years ago
Westminster hall was destroyed by dynamite.
Outside of this hall hung the decapitated heads
of Cromwell, Ireton, and Bradshaw, after the
restoration.  Hare informs us that the head of
Cromwell is still in existence, and is in the
possession of a person by the name of William-
son, at Seven Oaks, Kent.  This is the only
instance where an embalmed head has been
decapitated.  The story concerning it is as
follows:  One wintry night, as the sentry was
pacing backward and forward in front of the
building, the head fell down before him.  He
picked it up, hid it under his coat, and after-
ward sold it.  On his death-bed he confessed
what he had done.  After several shiftings
about, it reached the gentleman above men-
tioned.  And this is the head of that great man
who made the world tremble.

To what base uses we may return, Horatio!
Imperial Caesar, dead and turned to clay,
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.

	Thus we come to the end of that long
chapter, Westminster abbey.
					Hearth and Hall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Elizabeth Lyle Saxon has "proved up"
on her claim at Park, W. T.
	Another woman camposer has made her
mark—Mme. Helen Manletell, whose opera,
"Florence," has just been brought out with
fair success at the Royal Theatre, Stockholm
	The will of S. S. Cox, dated 1888, in a few
brief lines gives all the property he possessed
to his wife, who is made sole executrix and not
required to give bonds. A good example.
	Miss Pheobe Couzins, who has been a long
time out of the field on account of ill health,
seems likely, before many months are past, to
resume her labors for woman's ballot and the
temperance reform.
	"In Wyoming, after twenty years' experience
full woman suffrage is incorporated in the
State Constitution by a five-sixths majority, and
expressly guaranteed in the bill of rights by a
unanimous vote."
	Frances E. Willard celebrated her 50th
birthday September. 28. Her years have
been very useful ones. A great multitude of
people are grateful for her good work. They
will wish her, as we do, many happy returns of
the day.
	"Miss Helen Blackburn, who has edited the
Englishwoman's Review during the illness of its
late editor, the lamented Caroline A. Biggs,

[Column 2]

has now become permanent editor. Miss
Blackburn is the compiler of the English
"Women's Suffrage Calendar."
	Chief-Justice Greene, of Washington Terri-
tory, said several years ago: "The opponents
of woman suffrage in this Territory are found
allied with a solid phalanx of gamblers, pros-
titutes, pimps, and drunkard-makers—a
phalanx composed of all in each of those
classes who know the interest of the class and
vote according to it."
	The Chicago Inter-Ocean, has inaugurated a
Youth's Department. Mrs. Frances Hodgson
Burnett has been engaged to conduct and edit
the department, and the list of contributors
includes Miss Helen Gladstone, Margaret De-
land, Octave Thanet, Frances Courtney Baylor,
Harriet Prescott Spofford, Sarah Orne Jewett,
Ellen Olney Kirke, Tennyson, Edward Everett
Hale, Edmund Gosse, Prof. MaxMuller, Bret
Harte, and many other distinguished writers.
	"The Boston Traveller says that the four new
states will come into the Union at their best,
since they have become the heirs of the most
enlightened and most progressive legislation in
modern times. Hardly! The most progressive
legislation in modern times has given women
full political rights in the Isle of Man, has
made women county voters in England and
municipal voters in Great Britain and most of
its dependencies, also in our state of Kansas.
Nor have the new states even kept up to their
own highest mark, for the legislature of Da-
kota once granted the ballot to women, and
three times have the people of Washington by
their representatives acceded to the same. So
while the new states could not wholly ignore
the claim of women, they have sinned against
much light and fallen far below the  most pro-
gressive legislation."
	The fiftieth birthday of Miss Frances E.
Willard was celebrated on Sept. 28, by a large
gathering and public reception at the First
Methodist Church at Evanston, Ill. Addresses
were made by Mr. H. H. C. Miller, president
of the village; Rev. Joseph Cummings, D. D.,
prssident of Northwestern University; Rev. S.
F. Jones, D. D., pastor of the First Methodist
Church; Mrs. Elizabeth W. Andrew; who
spoke for the W. C. T. U., Mrs. Elizabeth B.
Harbert, on behalf of the Woman's Council;
and resolutions were offered by Hon. E. S.
Taylor. Miss Willard responded with her
usual grace. There was music by Misses
Catherine Waugh, Bessie Bragdon, and Ruth
Crandon, a reading by Mrs. Lida Hood Talbot,
and messages and letters of congratulation
from persons of note all over the country, in-
cluding the poet Whittier and ex-President
Hayes. Miss Willard has done a great work,
for which she is deservedly loved and honored.
The tributes on her birthday shew how wide
spread is the affection felt for her.		Ex.

Woman's Superiority.
	"Is there anything a man cannot do?" asks
an exchange. "We have never yet found a
man who could scold the children with his
mouth full of pins."


OBITUARY.

	It becomes our painful duty to record the death of our
beloved sister Anna Maria Westergard, born May 14,
1856, in Bedsted, Thidsted Co., Denmark. Was baptized
in 1865, came to Utah with her parents in 1866.  Married
Bro. J. Westergard Aug. 25, 1886, who had then only a
few months before buried a kind and affectionate wife.  She
came as an administering Angel to share the trouble of
a sorrowing father and five small children the youngest
only a few months old, which she cared for very tenderly,
and brought in time an addition to the sorrowstricken father
another little boy.


Sister Westergard was lady-like in appearance, a woman
of good judgment, and very sincere in her religion, a true
Latter-day Saint, and encouraged her husband and child-
ren to be faithful, and bore her testimony to the last.
During her short stay in Harrisville she was beloved by all,
she had acquired a good deal of useful knowledge and was
willing to impart it to others
	Truly we have lost a good teacher, a noble sister in our
Society.  But our consolation is, we have but buried her
remains, her spirit has gone to mingle in the society of the
Saints forever.
					MARY HEGSTED, President.
					CHRISTENA HEGSTED, Sec.
	Harrisville, Weber Co., Utah.


[Graphic] UNION PACIFIC THE OVERLAND ROUTE
[Typed] Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—-AT--
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS,     J. V. PARKER,
City Pass. Agt.	Div. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, KUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 18.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1889.	NO. 11.


CONTENTS.

	On Marriage.—Mary Ann M. Pratt. Hephzibah
—A story. Trifling.—Isabel Sears. Faith What
is it?—M. E. Kimball. A. A. W. Queen Isabella
—L. S.
	EDITORIAL.—Editorial Notices. Home Affairs.
In Memoriam. Literary Note. U. W. S. A. A
Puritan Village.—V. R.
	Relief Society Conference. R. S. Report.
The lost Lenore. Dr. Painter. Notes and
News.
	POETRY.—Dear Old Friends.—L. M. Hewlings.
Golden-Rod.—Meta E. B. Thorne. "God Hath
His Plan For Every Man." Caroline Ashurst
Biggs.—Warner Snoad. Even Defeat Defeated.
—Ex. In Loving Remembrance.—Zina E.
Crocheron.


[For the EXPONENT]
		DEAR OLD FRIENDS.

	Dear old friends, the long remember’d,
		Come and smile on me once more,
	Calm bright eyes that long have slumber’d,
		Wake to life! as erst of yane!
	Gentle tones and kindly greetings,
		Which I loved so much to hear,
	Still my poor heart’s anxious beating,
		Come, and quiet doubt and fear.  
	Tremblingly I wait and listen, 
		For the tones I held most dear,
	Sadly in mine eye doth glisten,
		Recollections pensive tear.

	Mem'ries on my soul are thronging,
		Of the dear old days long past,
	Precious seasons, now seculling,
		Dear friends shall we meet at last?
	
	Sunny and golden the mem'ries,
		Like the flush that herald's dawn,
	Are the old friends, the true-hearted,
		Cherished in days that are gone.
							L. M. HEWLINGS.


GOLDEN-ROD

O Golden rod,
	What is this pain that thrills my very heart
		When I thy beauty beauty see?
	Why do the ready tear-drops ever start
		At e'en the sight of thee?
	Have thy rich tresses stolen from the day
		Its very heart of gold?
	Else what this shadow drearisome doth lay
		On all that I behold?

O Golden-rod,
	First harbinger of Summer's swift decline,
		Of fading and decay,
	When fainter seems the suns that o'er us shine,
		Night shades the shortening day,
	So swift, so short the circle of the years!
		The seasons come and go,
	And scarce the fragile violet appears
		Ere comes the time of snow!

Yet, Golden-rod,
	A glory scarce of earth is thine, me seems—
		This pain, like pure alloy,
	Seems to enhance the luster of the gleams
		Of fuller, purer joy.
	For night is but the shadow of the day,
		And winter of the spring;
	Though all are silent now, the song birds lay
		Again through woods shall ring,


Dear Golden-rod,
	Like thine, it may be, shall that angel's face
		Shine goldenly and fair,
	Who soon shall call me from this lower place
		To realms of purer air.
	Though at first sight of him a solemn pain
		My inmost soul may fill,
	Later I shall see radiance, and joy's strain
		Shall all my being thrill.

		META E. B. THORNE.
The Hearth.


"GOD HATH HIS PLAN FOR EVERY
			MAN."

	Take this maxim home to your heart,
		If groping in earth's shadows;
	And the blossoms of faith and hope will start
		And brighten life's dreary meadows,
	And the clouds give place to sunlight's gold,
		And the rocks grow green 'neath the mosses;
					"God hath His plan
					  For every man."
	Though mingled with flowers and crosses.

	Though weary and long the time may seem,
		Ere the veil of the future be lifted,
	And many a radiant hope and dream
		Have into oblivion drifted;
	Yet after a while the light will come.
		And after a while the glory:
					"God hath His plan
					For every man,"
	And the angels whisper the story.

	Then why should ye murmur, and sigh, and fret,
		And follow each bent and calling?
	The violet patiently waits to be wet
		With the dews at the night-time falling;
	And the robin knows that the spring will come,
		Though the winds are around her wailing;
					"God hath His plan
					  For every man,"
	And His ways are never-failing

	Then gird ye on the armor of faith,
		And onward your way keep pressing:
	It may be through valleys of carnage and death,
		Or upon the Mount of Blessing;
	And if by His counsel guided, at last
		He'll lead you up to your glory;
					"God hath His plan
					  For every man,"
	And the angels whisper the story.


[Column 1]

ON MARRIAGE.

	My eye caught a sentence reading thus:
"Marriages are made in heaven."
	Now I will quote scripture, St. Luke Ch. 22-
34, 35, Vs.
	The question was asked by the Sadducees of
Christ, "whose wife of seven husbands would
the woman be, in the resurrection. And Jesus
answering said: "The children of this world
marry and are given in marriage, but they who
shall be counted worthy to obtain that world,
and the resurrection from the dead neither
marry nor are given in marriage."
	Eph. Ch. 5-28, 29, vs. "So ought men to
love their wives as their own bodies. He that
loveth his wife loveth himself. For no man
ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth
and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the Church.
	1 Corinthians Ch. 11-11, vs. "Nevertheless
neither is the man without the woman, neither
the woman without the man in the Lord," Ch.
8-39, vs. "The wife is bound by the law as long
as her husband liveth, but if her husband be

[Column 2]

dead, she is at liberty to be married to whom
she will, only in the Lord." By these passages
of scripture we can draw definate conclusions.
That God has a law instituted in His church
that makes the marriage ceremony binding in
this life and the world to come. For when-
ever God has had a church upon the earth He
has given His servants the power and authority
to marry, that is to bind on earth and in
heaven God does not put this seal and
sanction to any other law that man may make,
man's law only binds together until death
doth us part." Adam, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,
Solomon, David, Sarah, Hannah, Ruth, Eliza-
beth and all those ancient saints of God entered
into the everlasting covenant of marriage and
God blessed them, and their increase was with-
out end. How necessary then that the young
brethren and sisters who enter into this cove-
nent of marriage should be true and faithful
to each other, never speak against or deny the
order that God has instituted, or make light
of the higher law that will lead them into the
Celestial Kingdom of our Heavenly Father.
We read, "That straight is the gate and narrow
is the way that leads to life eternal and few
there be that find it. But dear Latter-day
Saints we should not be ignorant in regard to
these doctrines and principles made so plain to
our understanding if we will but give heed to
them. Marriage is honorable to all that enter
into it aright and have in view its sacredness.
"Verily, verily I say unto you, except ye
abide my law, ye cannot attain to this glory."
		MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Oct. 17, 1889.

HEPHZIBAH.
X.

What wonders, and what changes time hath wrought
	E'en down among the old New England hills
New light and revelation hath been taught,
	That ev'ry fibre of one's being thrills

	And sure enough the Mormon Elders
preached in the little Puritanical village⁠—in
the schoolhouse, and a large number of people
gathered to hear what new thing they had to
tell;—and forsooth they found only the same
old story of salvation through the Messiah
who would yet come in power and great glory
to possess the kingdom; but the strangest part 
of all was that no one seemed to have com-
prehended the Bible until these Mormon Elders
gave them a key by means of which they
could unlock the sayings of the Savior and
his Apostles, and the Bible seemed to them a
new book. Even on the first evening many
were impressed with the truths uttered by
these unlearned men, and several applied
for baptism at the close of the first meeting.
So plain had been the explanations given in
regard to the remission of sins through Bap-
tism and the laying on of hands for the gift
of the Holy Ghost, that those who received
the glad tidings with willing hearts rejoiced
and were exceedingly glad and desired that
others, who had not heard should have the
opportunity of hearing the same inspired
teachings.
	On the following day the news spread
through the village and the town like wild-
fire that two strangers preaching new doctrines
had made such a sensation and created so much
enthusiasm among the staid and quiet people,
that several of the members of the Congrega-


[Column 1]
﻿tional Church, and some who had never made
a profession of any religion, were to be bap-
tized in a pond just a little way south of the
village.
	The minister on whom the Elders had called
the day before was so excited over the news
when he heard it, that he went from house to
house among his parishioners to ascertain par
ticulars, and if possible to protect them from
the snares of the adversary of souls, and in-
duce them to use their utmost endeavors "to
persuade the deluded ones to give up such
foolish notions as having their sins remitted
by going down into the water, for it was only
a species of Catholicism this promise to remit
sins." But it was all in vain the seed had
been scattered and it found root and grew
and flourished and eventually bore good fruit.
	There had never been at any time in the
history of the oldest inhabitant of that little vil-
lage such an exciting time. The baptisms were
performed as the people who had been con-
verted requested, though the weather was cold
in that section of country even in November,
but none of those who had asked to be baptized
seemed in the least to fear the cold water, it
was a glorious sight to gaze upon these bap-
tisms in this quiet country place and the con-
firmation afterwards at a house near by where
they went to change their clothing. The new
converts hovered around the Elders playing
them with questions almost innumerable, so
earnest were they in their desires to gain
further information.
	Finally after remaining about three days
preaching every evening and answering
questions throughout the day, the Elders
traveled onward, leaving those whom they had
baptized in charge of a brother a resident
there, whom they appointed to preside for a
few days until they should return, and resume
the work so successfully begun. Among the
very first who beleived the truths taught by
the Elders was Mrs. Hathaway who had been
looking forward to just such an event as had
transpired, the coming of a prophet and the
restoration of all things. The minister brought
to bear all his learning, wisdom and influence
to show up the errors and misinterpretations
of Scripture as he called their preaching and
logic. But those who had heard knew it was
not sophistry or delusion, and that there was
no such misinterpretation of Scriptural truths
as he represented, for they were told by the
Elders to take the literal meaning of the
Word of God.
	The conflict between the Church people and
those who had accepted the idea of new revela-
tion was a bitter one, and the consequence
was a gradual division that at last became
permanent. One cannot help feeling that the
commandment given to the Saints to gather
unto one place is necessary, when it is con-
sidered how indignant and revengeful the
people become towards those who accept the
principles of "Mormonism." so called, but in
reality the true Gospel.
	Meantime though persecution raged one
might say yet the Saints met together and
the gifts of the Gospel were poured out in a
wonderful manner, not only in the gift of
tongues and the interpretation thereof but in
the healing of the sick and afflicted, so much
so that Doctors became alarmed as well as
ministers.
	In a neighborhood about five miles from
the village on a farm, the mistress of the
house, the mother of a large family had lain
ill for many years. Eminent physicians had
pronounced her ailments incurable, and her
family had given up all hopes of her ever
coming down stairs again.
	The husband of the sick woman heard the
Mormon Elders preach, and repeat the saying
of the Savior to his desciples, Go ye into all
the world and preach the Gospel &c.—and he
[Column 2]
that believeth and is baptized shall be saved
	*	*	&c.—and these signs shall
follow them that believe, in my name
they shall cast out devils, shall speak with
new tongues, and if they lay hands on the
sick they shall recover, and so forth. Mr.
W—— pondered over these words and he
beleived them; and the Elders also said many
had been healed under the administration of
the Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in the present day, as well as
in former times. Faith seemed at once to be
implanted in the heart of Mr. W.— he sought
an interview with the Elders, he invited them
to his house, he listened to their teachings,
and soon became converted to the doctrines
they taught. He told them of the condition
of his wife, and asked them if there was a
possibility of her being healed by faith. The
Elders answered, "if she is not appointed unto
death, and if she will believe sufficiently to
allow us to administer to her in the ordinance
of the laying on of hands she will be raised
up and you will have her in your midst again
fully restored." Mr. W.— listened in astonish-
ment, yet he believed, and accordingly he took
the Elders with him up into the chamber of
the sick woman and introduced them to his
afflicted wife saying, "these are the Elders of
whom I told you, who preach repentance and
baptism by immersion and the laying on of
hands, not only for confirmation and the gift
of the Holy Ghost but also for the healing of
the sick and afflicted even as in the days of
the Savior." "Are you willing to listen to
them and if you can comprehend as I do the
truth of these things, we will ask for baptism
at their hands?"
	The Elders remained a short time conversing
with the sick woman, and she received their
teaching with the humility of a little child,
and her faith was such that she desired bap-
tism but how could she obtain it she asked,
"I am not able to sit up or to be dressed and
how can I be baptized?" said she and the tears
flowed down her palid cheeks.
	One of the Elders replied, "Mrs. W.— if you
have faith in our administration we will lay
hands upon your head, and ask our Heavenly
Father to heal you and you shall be restored
to health, and go down into the waters of bap-
tism, return again to your home, and go about
your daily work as you did before this illness
came upon you."
	"I will exercise faith, for I believe you are
men of God I see it in your countenances, and
I feel a power such as I have never ex-
perienced before." O if my boys were only
here to see you and to hear you as I do, what
would they say?"
	Her husband interposed saying the boys
should be written to immediately, and that she
must not trouble about them,  they would
come home and hear for themselves.
	Finally the Elders administered to her and
she was healed, and the following day with
her husband and two or three of the younger
children she walked a little distance from the
house, to where there was a running stream of
water, and they were all baptized and con-
firmed into the Church, and the words spoken
to her by the Elders were literally fulfilled.
	This manifestation of the power of healing
caused a great commotion; many of the
people round about were well acquainted with
Mrs. W.'s— condition, and could not account
for the miracle that had been wrought, for
they knew some power had been exercised in
her behalf. Her two eldest sons who were
away in College were sent for to come home,
that they might know for themselves of this
wonderful change. One of them, the eldest
was preparing for the ministry, the other to
graduate in medicine. They came home, they
heard the teaching of the Elders, and the
testimony of their mother upon the healing
[Column 3]
power manifest through the holy priesthood,
and they soon became convinced it was some-
thing which far exceeded the learning of the
world. They gave up their worldly professions,
they became converted to the Gospel which
their parents had embraced, and they too were
baptized, and afterwards ordained, and pro-
claimed the glad tidings and truths taught
them to all who would hear. But the young
men with whom they had studied would not
accept the message they brought, and ridiculed
them for believing what they knew and testi-
fied to be the truth. It was hard for them, but
they found immediately after their baptism,
that they could not finish the studies they had
intended at the College; prejudice was too
bitter, and all sorts of rumors concerning the
"Mormons," were retailed at large. But these
young men had counted the cost, and had
decided to serve God, and preach the Ever-
lasting Gospel, revealed again through Joseph
Smith, instead of accepting earthly honors and
false creeds. And here for a little time we
will leave them, rejoicing in their new-found
faith, enjoying the gifts and blessings per-
taining thereto.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRIFLING.
	Human nature is far from perfect, even the
best of men and women have many faults, yet
of all faults the most deplorable in my sight is
trifling.
	As we pass through life what sadder sight do
we see than a man who has trifled away his
talents, even though they were of no more than
ordinary merit? Had his talents been culti-
vated no doubt many a man might have made
a name for himself in some profession, or as a
man of letters, who is now no honor to his
family and a burden to society.
	We have an example of a man born with
more than ordinary talent in our poet Poe.
He died in the prime of life in the gutter—in-
toxicated. He has left us weird tales which
are of the first rank in literature, but after
reading them we can not help thinking what
might he have done had he not trifled with the
genius with which he was endowed by his
Maker.
	Let us say with the sage “Make me neither
better nor worse than my fellow man,” for in 
mediocrity is safety. We cannot all be
geniuses neither are we all born with feeble
minds, yet if the human mind is not exercised
how can we expect it to retain its original
activity?	
	We are as yet school-boys and school-girls, 
and it is now that our characters are being
formed. If we trifle now we will regret it in
the years to come. Let us hope that in after
years we shall not have it said of us, “He
might have been a credit to his friends and
himself had he not trifled away his time.”
						ISABEL SEARS.


WOMAN:—You talk about the fire of genius.
Many a blessed woman who dies unsung and
unremembered has given out more of the real
vital heat that keeps the life in human souls,
without a spark flitting through her humble
chimney to tell the world about it, than would
set a dozen theories smoking, or a hundred odes
simmering in the brains of so many men of
genius.—O. W. Holmes.
	OVER-WORKED WIFE AND MOTHER.—Noth-
ing is more thoroughly mistaken than the idea
that a woman fulfils her duty by doing an
amount of work that is far beyond her strength.
She not only does not fulfil her duty, but she
most singularly fails in it, and the failure is
truly deplorable. There can be no sadder sight
than that of a broken-down, over-worked wife
or mother—a woman who is tired all her life
through.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CAROLINE ASHURST BIGGS.

A pearl is lost from Honor's stainless crown !
Ay ! but the Angels carried it above. 
The task God bade His servant here lay down,
Was but the prelude to His life of love.
Above the blossoms of pure woman-life
(Not all unmingled with the laurel’s sheen)
The Past’s full measure of a noble strife,
The sobbing wail of all that might have been :
Glows like the glory of the setting sun, 
The radiance of the welcome home, "Well done!”
							WARNER SNOAD.
THE LILIES, LEE, S. E.
Sept. 7, 1889.


EVEN DEFEAT DEFEATED.

BY HATTIE TYNG GRISWOLD.

"O will the right not triumph at the last?"
We cry, as sick at heart we view earth's plain,
Where love and hate have grappled once again,
Renewed the ceaseless warfare of the past,
The unending struggle, still so fierce, so vast,
And still for answer comes the impassioned strain:
“When first the Universe sprang from God's brain,
And forth into the formless void was cast,
He said that it was good; and so to day,
In firmest faith we answer give once more:
The right must triumph, death and hell must die,
Though proud they stretch to clutch the sky away
Wherein the bow of promise, as of yore,
Proclaims the surety given by God Most High."
		Ex.

IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE.

OF LITTLE OWEN HOWARD.

In realms of peace, love, joy and light, 
As pure as an immortal flower."
Where Jesus and His angels dwell
In midst of glory, and great power.

Where all good spirits dwell in peace,
Where there's no suffering to mar
The spirits of departed souls,
Wh've gone to live where glories are.

Dear little Owen's but gone back,
To his own blessed home above;
To mingle with his little friends,
With whom he used to live, and love.

Jesus alone, can you console,
And comfort, with His spirit sweet
As He has done at countless times,
Of those who have followed at His feet.

Jesus had sorrows all His life,
When there were few to show their love,
But being filled with Holy Grace
Like His own Father up above,

He fought His battles brave and true,
He counted not His trials vain,
For "through long suffering" said He
"Were perfect made for heavenly aim."

With Jesus, prophets, angels now,
Your baby is in glory placed,
And he will wait for you to come
And mingle with the good and blessed
	Lovingly,
		ZINA E. CROCHERON.
Bountiful, Sept. 8th, 1889.


[Column 1]
		﻿FAITH WHAT IS IT?
	We are told it is a gift of God. You may
then ask as a friend once said to me: Am I to
blame if faith has not been given to me? Let
us reflect. We read in holy writ that the just
shall live by faith. Romans 1st chap. 17 v.
Will our Father withhold any thing from us
which we justly merit. Are we just and true
to ourselves and our fellows: Being made in
the image of God should not we possess the
[Column 2]
same attributes or virtues? We can love and
also hate that which annoys and vexes us, if
we choose: not governing that passion; which
charity sometimes prompts us to do in this
fallen world; for human nature is frail at best:
Accordingly when light and truth take posses-
sion of our minds we find that these virtues
are really ours but lie dormant until called
into action by gospel truths, then our attention
is attracted by things of such great importance
that trifles that annoy and vexed us at other
times are hardly noticeable now, we look at
them as only passing events which will soon
disappear, for in reality these have but little
weight and will soon be blown away as chaff.
	In my opinion those who have cultivated
the gift of faith in God our Father can tell
us best what the benefits are of the same. The
Apostle Paul is certainly one of those persons.
He says: Now faith is the substance of things
hoped for, the evidence of things not seen;
The Prophet Joseph said, the appearance of
things hoped for, etc. We can here form a
correct idea of what faith is.
	The Book of Mormon illustrates it still
more clearly to my mind. On page 300 we
read the words of the Prophet Alma thus.
Now as I said concerning faith, that it was
not a perfect knowledge, even so with my
words. Ye can not know of this surety at
first, unto perfection, any more than faith is a
perfect knowledge. But behold if ye will
awake and arouse your faculties even to an
experiment upon my words, and exercise a
particle of faith, even to desire to believe, let
this desire work in you even until you believe
in a manner that ye can give place for a
portion of my words.
	He then compares the word unto a seed
that may be planted in your heart, “behold if
it be a true seed, or a good seed, and if ye do not
cast it out by your unbelief, that ye resist the
Spirit of the Lord, behold it will begin to swell
within your breasts; and when you feel these
swelling motions, ye will begin to say, it must
needs be that this is a good seed, or the word
is good, for it beggineth to enlarge my soul,
and to enlighten my understanding, yea it is
delicious to me.”
	The Prophet Alma goes on to say, after
proper nourishment a sprout will shoot out,
then another, until it becomes a tree. But if
neglected it may then die. Accordingly you
must nourish the tree until you obtain the
fruit. Then you have obtained a knowledge
through your diligence and faithfulness which
is equal to the fruit of the tree of life. It is
no longer faith it is knowledge.
	But if ye neglect the tree and take no
thought for its nourishment, behold it will not
get any root, and when the heat of the sun
cometh and scorcheth it, because it hath no
root, it withers away; and ye pluck it up and
cast it out. Now this is not because the seed
was not good, neither was it because the fruit
of it was not desirable; but it was because your
ground was barren, and ye will not nourish
the tree, therefore ye cannot have the fruit
thereof, and thus if ye will not nourish the
word looking forward with an eye of faith to
the fruit thereof, ye can never pluck of the
fruit of the tree of life.
	This reminds me of our Savior’s prayer for
His disciples. His prayer to His Father was:
“Sanctify them through thy truth thy word is
truth.
	Emanuel Sweedenborg who was born in
Sweden also says. You cannot build anything
on earth which will reach heaven. He says
that the scriptures and words of inspired men
are a ladder let down from heaven for our bene-
fit, and the only way to ascend to God, our
Father.
	We also remember the rich man who asked
father Abraham to send some one to his
brethren, lest they come to this place of tor-
[Column 3]
ment. The answer was “they have Moses
and the prophets, if they will not hear them
neither will they listen though one arose from
the dead.
	Can we find a more important lesson? Or
one more worthy of our diligent and faith-
ful study. In my opinion we should be as
earnest as those who study science, believing
the result will be that which arrives to per-
fection. Then great will be our joy and re-
joicing, both in this world and also in the
next.
					M. E. KIMBALL.
Oct. 22nd 1889.


A. A. W.

	The Association for the Advancement for
Women held their Seventeenth Congress
in Unity Church, Broadway, Denver, Colorado,
October 8th, 9th and 10th. Executive session
at 10 o'clock a. m. Public sessions at 2.30
and 8 o'clock p.m. At evening sessions an
admittance fee of twenty five cents was
charged. A Conference of officers only was
held October 7th. Topics of discussion:
Civil Marriage, Mrs. E. D. Cheney; Women in
Affairs, Mrs. Helen S. Shedd; Women in
Science, Miss Laura Linton; Education vs.
Examinations, Miss Mary A. Ripley; What
Authors are Influencing most the Minds of
the Young in America, Mrs. Annie Nathan
Meyer; Hegel's Views of Art, Mrs. Ellen M.
Mitchell; Crime and its Punishment, Mrs. R.
N. Hazard; What we owe to Greek. Civiliza-
tion Mrs. Alice Harris; Statistical Paper, Rev.
A. B. Blackwell; Redemptive Power of Art,
Mrs. Rebecca D. Rickoff; Common Sense in
the Nursery, Dr. Julia Holmes Smith;
Symposium: Employment of Prisoners.


QUEEN ISABELLA.
			————
	If asking will secure it, women and their
work will have abundant representation at the
observance of the four hundredth anniversary
of the landing of Columbus.
	The women of Chicago met Aug. 26, and
appointed Mrs. Myra Bradwell and Mrs. M. M.
M. Wallace a committee to consult with the
national committee to ask for official recogni-
tion as an auxiliary. This action was approved,
and the Chicago Woman’s Department has
been incorporated.
	A little later Miss Susan B. Anthony made
a similar application to the mayor of New 
York. Now the Woman's Industrial Associa-
tion of Washington D. C., puts in its claim.
No doubt some recognition will be made of
women and their work. But whether it be
adequate and fitting or not, women have only
to "bide their time" to receive all that belongs
to them. It has taken four hundred years to
find out that Columbus was worthy of a
world's celebration. Women are only coming
above the horizon. When they are in full
sight, and secure in the possession of equal
human rights, it will be their own fault if
Queen Isabella, the Pilgrim and Puritan
mothers, the women of Revolutionary times
and the noble women all along the line do not
have their proper place wherever common
interests are represented. To this end let
women unite to secure their right to vote. The
power that resides in the ballot is the one
strong lever by which to secure equal rights.
To-day women are helpless for lack of the
ballot. We cannot command what we ought
to have, and must take what is offered.
							L. S.
	Woman's Journal'


Celia Logan is editor of Belford's Maga-
zine.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, - 	Editor.
	Published semimonthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.	
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	NOVEMBER 1, 1889.


[Column 1]
		﻿  EDITORIAL NOTICES.
	After the Woman’s Congress held in Denver
had adjourned some of the Eastern ladies paid a
visit to Salt Lake. They registered at the Cullen
where a reception was tendered them by the
ladies of the Woman’s Club of this City on Fri-
day evening Oct. 18, commencing at 8. p. m. The
parlors of the hotel were brilliantly lighted and the
rooms decorated with flowers for the occasion,
presumably by the Woman’s Club who had the
affair in charge. Mrs. Wickersham and Mrs.
Froiseith introduced those who called to the
distinguished visitors; they were the Rev.
Antoinette Brown Blackwell the first woman ever
ordained to the ministry in the United States,
Mrs. Henrietta L. T. Wolcott, Treasurer of the
A. A. W. and Miss Emily Howland an ardent
worker in reforms, also Mrs. Lawlor of the A. A.
W. A lecture was given by these ladies in the
Opera House Sunday evening, which was very
well attended though the weather was unfavor-
able.
	Mrs. Wolcott explained briefly and definitely the
origin, aim and work of the Association for the
Advancement of Women, which holds a Congress
annually in one of the large cities of the United
States.
	Miss Howland followed in a somewhat pathetic
speech upon the Temperance question, and Mrs.
Blackwell spoke for a short time on general
topics giving in brief the general advancement
made by women during the last forty years.
	On Monday the ladies called at this office and
we had an interesing time, Pres. Zina D. H.
Young being with us on the occasion, of course
the subjects were mostly of our faith, priciples
and institutions and both Mrs. Young and the
writer always take pleasure in explaining the
situation of the people before and since the en-
forcement of the Edmund’s law.
	On Tuesday evening Mrs. Blackwell spoke in
St. Mark’s schoolhouse, subject “The Nineteenth
Century.” We very much regretted not hearing
her, but had an appointment at Provo the same
evening. Mrs. Blackwell has an excellent voice
for public speaking, and a most admirable
presence, a logical way of presenting her subject,
and is very attractive in manner and appearance.

	On Tuesday October, 15, we had a pleasant call
at this office, from Theresa, Dowager Countess of
Shrewsbury, England, and the Countess of
Selkirk, Scotland. The ladies were accompanied
by their maids, who had been traveling with them
through the United States. They had some ques-
tions to ask concerning our faith and principles,
and manifested considerable interest in the con-
dition of women under the enforcement of the
Edmund’s law. They conversed freely with the
writer, giving their own views and opinions upon
[Column 2]
popular questions which are being agitated in
Great Britain at the present time, and were
decidedly in favor of suffrage for women property
holders, and especially those who had no man,
husband, father or brother to represent their in-
terests. We emphatically maintained it is better
to represent one’s self than to be dependent upon
another even if it be a man, to which sentiments
the Ladies assented. We accompanied them to
the Temple Block and went over the grounds and
public buildings, explaining and answering their
questions and giving them such information as the
time would permit.
	These ladies cultivated, refined and accom-
plished, accustomed to the society of the highest
aristocracy, were very much like other people in
sentiment and expression.
	They had read W. Hepworth Dixon’s books
“New America” and another work treating some-
what definitely upon Mormon subjects; they had
also read Lawrence Oliphant’s views of the
Latter-day Saints in Utah.
	The Dowager Countess seemed very proud of
her ten grandchilren and wished she could show
them to us. Both ladies are quite young looking
and well-preserved, and both are widows, and if
we might venture an opinion on the subject, some-
what strong-minded in view of the fact that they
are “doing America,” without a gentleman escort.
	In a letter received yesterday from the Countess
Selkirk she refers kindly to the EXPONENT and
asks for other copies; the Ladies were at that date
on the banks of the beautiful Hudson; they in-
formed me they intended visiting Washington D.
C. before they sailed for England.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	Pres. Zina D. H. Young attended the Stake
Conference of the Relief Society of Cache held at
Logan last week and returned home Monday
evening.
	Mrs. Lillie Freeze attended the Conference of
the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. of
Morgan Stake on the 25, 29, and 27, of October
ult.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Sanpete
Stake, will be held in Spring City, on Saturday
Dec. 14, meetings commencing at 10, a. m. and at
2 p. m. as usual. Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde President.
	On Wednesday October 23, a Woman Suffrage
Association was organized at Provo for Utah
County, Mrs. Mary J. Tanner Pres. Susa Young
Gates, Sec. In our next issue full particulars
will be given of the meeting, and also the able
address delivered by the Pres. Mrs. Tanner.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Howard attended the Emery
Stake Relief Society Conference and other meet-
ings in the County, leaving this City on the 17, of
October. A Woman Suffrage Association was
organized for Emery Co. during Mrs. Howard's
visit there of which full particulars have not yet
reached us. Joanna P Curtis is the Cor. Sec.,
notice will be given of the organization hereafter;
names of officers etc.


[Column 1]

﻿IN MEMORIAM.

"The loved and lost!" Why do we call them lost
Because we miss them from our onward road?
God's unseen angel o'er our pathway crossed
Looked on us all, and loving them the most
Straightway relieved them from life's weary load.

	The bright and beautiful month of October
when nature plumes herself most royally in scarlet,
purple, and golden, and the vines, gardens, groves
and hills are bedecked with the many colored
Autumn leaves, s ems scarcely a fitting time for
the angel of death clothed in sombre garments to

[Column 2]

make his appearance in a happy household. But
so it is, and he "has all seasons for his own." On
the 9th, of October ult. one of the saddest events
transpired at Devereux House in this City, the
sudden death, of Mrs. Emma Lettice Jennings
Carlisle, not yet the bride of a year's time. So
sudden and unexpected was the occurrence that
the young husband and the tender mother were
totally unprepared. Just about an hour or so pre-
vious to her death, Mrs. Carlisle had given birth
to a little daughter, and every hope was enter-
tained that she would rally and recuperate gradu-
ally. She had everything to live for, a loving and
devoted companion to whom she was fondly at-
tached, a babe just opening its eyes upon the new
world to be tenderly cared for with a mother's
love and maternal devotion, which Mrs. Carlisle
possessed naturally, also those attractive home
qualities that make family ties more endearing
and fasten deeper in the heart the human affec-
tions, that when rent asunder make terrible havoc
with the households so associated and linked to-
gether. Both in the home and in the sick room
her influence was a powerful one for good. She
was a natural nurse and because of her intense
love for such pursuits, had taken a regular course
in nursing that she might be prepared to do good
among her family and friends and do it systemati-
cally in the best and gentlest manner.
	Mrs. Carlisle though from her childhood accus-
tomed to every luxury wealth can bring was
never carried away with the frivolities of society,
but loved better to tread the path of duty and of
safety. She was of a religious nature full of faith
and integrity to the Gospel. She was devotedly
attached to her mother, sisters and brothers, who
will sadly miss her calm and serene presence in
the home circle, and her wise counsel in matters
of importance.
	The writer distinctly remembers her appearance
at the reception given in honor of her marriage as
also that of her sister Maye, for it had been a
double wedding, how her face lighted up with the
joy of a happy contentment, and how perfect
seemed the commencement of her married life.
But alas, for all human hopes and aspiration, she
was cut down like a flower in full bloom in the
midst of a beautiful garden, and we believe only to
be transplanted in a more congenial clime, where
those spiritual attributes of her nature apparent
here will shine forth with increased power and
splendor, and she will attain that perfection of
beauty in soul and character that surpasses all
earthly endowments. May the rich consolations
of the Holy Spirit soothe and comfort the mourn-
ing husband, mother and friends, and the rich
legacy she has left in her noble and wise example
ever be a light and a guide to them while sojourn-
ing here; and may the little one so early bereft of
a mother's care be to them a constant reminder of
the one departed and an influence and incentive to
follow on where she has gone.

"It bids us do the work that they laid down,
Take up the song where they broke off the strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town,
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
And our lost loved ones will be found again."

	Emma Lettice Jennings was the daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. William Jennings, and was born in
Salt Lake City, Aug. 2, 1866, and was married to
Hon. J. E. Carlisle in the Logan Temple, January
3, 1889, and died Oct. 9, 1889, aged—23 years 2
months and 7 days.
	Mrs. Carlisle's funeral was held at Devereux
House and was numerously attended, Bishop F.
Kesler presiding. Singing by the Quartette
Messrs. Easton, Spencer, Whitney and Goddard.

"When the swallows homeward fly."

	Prayer was offered by Apostle Heber J. Grant
Singing,

"Spin Spin" &c.

	Consoling speeches were made by Bishop O. F.


Whitney, Apostle J. H. Smith, Pres. Geo. Q.
Cannon and Bishop Kesler. Singing, 
		"Not dead but sleepeth."
Benediction by Pres. Angus M. Cannon. 
A perfect deluge of flowers in every conceivable
variety of artistic shapes and forms adorned the
house and coffin. For Mrs. Carlisle there is no
need to mourn, yet all her friends will shed for her
and the sweet babe left behind, a sympathetic tear,
and may it be possible for all to say as they bow
beneath the rod, "Got knew the best."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LITERARY NOTE.
	The National Magazine for November will con-
tain among other articles “Comparative Philolo-
gy,” by Professor Schele de Vere, Ph.D., J. U. D;
of the University of Virginia; Political Science,’
by Professor Raymond Mayo Smith, A. M., of
Columbia College, and “Shakespeare,” by F. W.
Harkins, Ph.D., Chancellor of the new National
University of Chicago, whose instruction by mail
and University Extension System for non-resi-
dents now meeting with such favor, will also be
explained in this number.
	In the future numbers will appear a symposium
comprising articles by prominent scholars and
statesmen giving their opinions on leading ques-
tions, such as “Darwin’s Theory,” “The Chinese
Question,” “Socialism,” and “Should Immigra-
tion be Restricted?” Published the first of each
month, at 147 Throop Street, Chicago. Subscrip-
tion price, $1.00 a year. Sample copy 10 cts.


[Column 1]
﻿			U. W. S. A.

	A Convention of the U. W. S. A. was held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in this City Mon-
day Oct. 7, commencing at 2 p. m. Mrs. L. D-
Alder, Acting Pres., in the Chair. Mrs. Nellie R.
Webber, Vice Pres., and Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall,
Ch. Ex. Com., were by her side, also Mrs. Ann
Groesbeck and Phebe Y. Beattie of the Com-
mittee and Miss Rachel Edmunds Ass’t Sec.
Hon. John T. Caine, Hon. C. W. Penrose, Hon. W.
H. King and Prof. Talmage occupied seats on the
stand—also Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. S. M.
Kimball, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. L. G. Richards,
and Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh, Pres. Millard Co
W. S. A. Mrs. Ellen Jakeman Pres. Sanpete Co.
W.S. A. and others. The Convention opened
with prayer by Dr. E. S. Barney. After reading
minutes etc., Prof. Talmage was the first
speaker, he alluded to the benefits derived from
thought being aroused and discussion begun upon
any subject; he thought the fact that woman is
still deprived of the franchise is a proof that bar-
barism still exists; he was not an enthusiast on
the subject; but believed that suffrage would be
given not as a mercy, but he thought reason and
revelation united to convince us that woman
is as much queen as man is king; thought it a
characteristic of manly nature that man arrogate
to himself honors and privileges; he did not think
man had a right to delay or intercept the privi-
leges that women are asking for. “Kamschatkans
beat their wives into obedience, the Zulu’s are
little better, the Roman’s in the time of the glory
of the Roman Empire were not much better, but
we in this day regard such scenes as evidences of
darkened minds; in this age may God assist to re-
move error, and grant His divine favor upon the
efforts being made to elevate woman.”
	Hon. C. W. Penrose believed in the rights of
women and children as well as the rights of men,
one is not in opposition to the other: a senator
had said to him “you might as well talk to me
of a howling beast, or whirling cyclone as to talk
to me of woman suffrage, and the man who helps
to confer suffrage upon woman commits a crime
next to murder,” some argue that women can’t
vote because they can’t go to  war and fight. I
[Column 2]
think the delay in granting women the right to vote
is due in a great measure to women themselves,
there are so many women who do not want the
responsibility and do not comprehend the ad-
vantage it might be to others who are asking for it.
One mistake often made is in confusing the terms
of suffrage and citizenship, and again one may be
entitled to vote and not be eligible to office, keep
these three things distinct and seek to become
conversant with these subjects and with the laws
of municipalities and counties, states, etc., injustice
prevails now, but it will not be long until women
will be enfranchised and righteousness will pre-
vail from shore to shore and from pole to pole.
	Mrs. Z. D. H. Young—said she was reminded of
an old saying that she heard when a little girl,
			"He who plants pears
			Plants for	his heirs."
Mothers and sisters are planting now for the
future; sewing good seed, evil is abroad in the
world, the traffic in liquor is one of the  great
causes of crime, would not mothers vote against
this crying evil? Yes! spoke of the immense amount
of money made for the government by the internal
revenue act upon liquor, and the degradation of
mothers and wives because of intemperance.
Made an eloquent plea for mothers having the right
to their own children.
	Hon. John T. Caine believed in the rights of
women; the taking of the franchise from the wo_
men of Utah was simply a political movement to
lessen the vote of the people’s party; agitation on
this question would in time accomplish the desired
result, agitation that begun in Mass., brought
about the Anti-Slavery movement; at present it
was impossible to do much towards suppressing
saloons except to make the license as high as pos-
sible, these liquor people don’t want women to
vote, it would keep the ballot box too pure, but
let us plant the trees and those who come after
us will eat the pears.
	Hon. Wm. H. King said he had read or heard
that the warrior who had vanquished a hundred
foes, trembled when before a woman—and he felt
the truth of this saying today in standing to ad-
dress the audience upon this subject. There had
never been any question in his mind as to the
civil and political rights of women, if mothers can
instil patriotism into the hearts of their children,
can rear statesmen, why should they not be en-
trusted with privileges equal to the sons they rear.
Women in all ages have been at the bottom of re-
forms, the United States, Europe, and England
especially has been highly favored with women of
renown. The speaker once had the privilege of
hearing Lord Randolph Churchill speak in the
house of Parliament when woman suffrage was
being discussed and he put it in this way “Why
don’t women wear trousers?” It is no reason a
all, it does not follow any more than a hundred
other differences. Enfranchisement for women is
sure to follow in the steps of enlightenment.
	An organ solo by Jos. J. Daynes was highly ap-
preciated.
	Mrs. L. G. Richards was the next speaker, she
looked with a degree of pride on the record made
by the women of Utah in the past when they en-
oyed the right of franchise, thought the experi-
ences of the present should stimulate us to inform
ourselves more fully that, we might vote intelli-
gently when the time should come which it cer-
tainly would before long.
	A beautiful song was charmingly rendered by
Miss Viola Pratt.
	Bishop Wallace of North Ogden made a power-
ful speech in favor of the rights of women in all
lands, thought it a strange and anomalous
position for women to be in,sueing to mankind for
the right of franchise when every one of these
great statesmen and kings, the greatest and the
highest, had as a child knelt at the feet of a wo-
man and were taught by her their first lessons.
[Column 3]
	Many good things were said and solid truths ad-
vanced and the Convention was altogether calcu-
lated to arouse thought; to publish the minutes in
full would be impossible in a paper, it would re-
quire to be in pamphlet form.
	After the speeches, Mrs. Alder called upon the
delegates and Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh gave a
concise report of the Millard Co., organiza-
tion, its past and present status, and the hopes she
entertained for the future development of the mem-
bers of the Association. Mrs. Greenhalgh also
related how forty years ago in Calcutta she had
spoken on this very question, and expressed he
indignation at the treatment American women re-
ceived in England at the time of the World’s Anti-
Slavery Convention.
	Mrs. Ellen Jakeman with her babe in her arms
made a clear and brief statement of facts concern-
ing what had been done in the Association in
Sanpete Co., which was most interesting.
	Mrs. Alder briefly reviewed the work accom-
plished by the W. S. A. at headquarters, after
which the Convention adjourned subject to call by
the Secretary. Letters were received from other
Counties beside those represented on the plat-
form.


A PURITAN VILLAGE.

A GLIMPSE OF TOPSFIELD—AN INTERESTING
	TOWN AS YET UNMODERNIZED.

	When the Puritans made their settlement at
Salem, the tribe of Agawam owned the land
bordering on the Atlantic coast between the
Naumkeag and the Merrimac rivers, and inland
as far as Andover. Masconomet, their chief, con-
veyed the present towns of Ipswich and Topsfield
to John Winthrop, son of Governor Winthrop,for
£20. Thus sacrificing his beautiful hunting-
grounds, which abounded in game, he became in
his later days dependent upon the colonists. He
was buried on Sagamore Hill in the present town
of Hamilton. The first occupancy of Topsfield
by European settlers dates back to 1635, but its
incorporation as a town came some years later
The beautiful broad meadows that border the
Agawam (now called Ipswich) river first attracted
the early settlers of Ipswich and Salem, and grants'
of land were given to John Endicott, Simon Brad-
street, Robert Paine and others, who formed a
settlement here, to which they gave the name of
New Meadows. The present name of Topsfield,
which might have been suggested by its hill, was
no doubt derived from Toppesfield, England, from
which place many immigrants came at an early
day and made their home here. Prominent among
these was a man named Smith, and there are now
extant in the old stone church at Toppesfield
England, some interesting memorials of his
family; among them one is particularly noticeable,
commemorating the virtues and Christian graces
of his mother. From this mother in Israel
through her line of descendants in this village
came Joseph Smith, the founder of the Mormon
sect, and in the village cemetery here is a monu-
ment to the Smith family, erected through the in-
strumentality of George A. Smith, a Mormon
elder, lately-deceased. The old town of Toppes-
field, England, is said to retain the manners and
customs of primitive times, and is far behind its
namesake in America in population and genera
intelligence.
	The old Bradstreet farm, probably the first one
laid out in the early township of New Meadows,
covers one of the eastern hills, its cultivated fields
sloping to the broad meadow at its base. This
farm was given by Govenor Bradstreet to his son
Simon, whose descendants, bearing the name of
Bradstreet, occupy an old fashioned homestead
built close to the original house, which was only
taken down a few years ago. While Ann Dudley
the poet wife of Govenor Simon Bradstreet, has


transmitted her genius to some of her descendants
(among whom are Oliver Wendell Holmes and
Richard H. Dana), the benevolent features and
amiable characteristics of her husband, the old
colonial governor, can be easily traced in some of
his descendants in this village. Anne Bradstreet
was a daughter of that rigid old Puritan, Governor
Thomas Dudley, and every generation since her
time in Topsfield has had a Dudley Bradstreet
among its number, even to the present occupant
of the farm we have mentioned. Very few
villages of New England have retained their old-
time simplicity as this one has done. None of
the hurry and bustle of its more enterprising
neighbors have come over these hills. One manu-
facturer only has gained a foothold, and even he
hesitates to destroy the quiet of the village by im-
porting foreign laborers, and only employs the
sons and daughters of his neighbors and friends,
No Queen Anne turretted villa dots hill or plain,
and no summer hotel invites the stranger to this
quiet retreat.
	A strong feature of Topsfield is the accessi-
bility of all things that make country life desirable
to a lover of nature. No long dusty roads or toil-
some climbing are necessary to put before one
the wildest views, the prettiest dells and the
greenest meadows bordered by grand old oak and
hickory trees. Foot-paths and well-worn
stiles, of which Burroughs laments there are so
few in this country, take you within the shade of
the pines up the hillside to an elevation where
can be seen Newburyport, the hills of Ipswich,the
waters of Pigeon Cove, the high bluffs of Beverly
Shore, and when the atmosphere is clear, Marble-
head and the harbor of Salem town. From this
hill we look down upon the village, with its two
church spires, shady streets, comfortable, farm-
like houses, and upon the Agawam, spanned by
bridges and shaded by overhanging trees and
shrubs. This romantic stream that bows and
bends all the way to the ocean, is like a little
brook during the summer months, but overflows
its banks in the spring and autumn, turning the
outlying meadows into a broad, smooth lake. In
the west are the Andover hills, and beyond
stretch other ranges, with Monadnoc and
Wachusett dimly outlined on the horizon, In the
centre of the village is a wide common, intersected
by paths shaded by elms and bordered by two
churches, the town hall and two old colonial
houses, built by the Emersons in the best style of
architecture of a hundred years ago, giving a
grand and gracious air to this inland town. An
ancient house still stands near the common, built
with an overhanging upper story for protection
from the Indians. There is no record of its age,
but it is supposed to have stood at least two hun-
dred and twenty years, and has few companions
left anywhere in New England. It was the home
of Rev. Joseph Capen, the first minister of Tops-
field, who came here from Dorchester in the
middle of the seventeenth century. Rev. John
Emerson succeeded Mr. Capen, and in his long
ministry of forty-six years, though often deprived
of his meagre salary, managed to amass fifty
thousand dollars, a large fortune for those days.
He was a brother of Rev. Joseph Emerson, from
whom came the Concord branch. The Rev.
Joseph was spiritually minded, never counting the
things of this world, and he ceased to hold
friendly and brotherly communion with John, who
he thought was too much engrossed in worldly
affairs. The colonial houses were built by de-
scendants of Parson John, and two years ago,
when one became the property of the Congrega-
tional church, to be used as a parsonage, lilac
trees over eighty years old, that had been the
pride and delight of a former generation, were cut
to the ground,they in some measure destroying the
ideality of this village. We are reminded of the
poet Longfellow, who never wished to leave his
home in Cambridge when the lilacs were in bloom.
[Column 2]
	This village, like Salem and Danvers, suffered
from the witchcraft delusion. Two women—Mary
Eastey and Sarah Wildes—were dragged from 
their homes and hung on Witch’s hill, while
another—Abigail Hobbs—was condemned to die,
but was finally pardoned. Mary Eastey and the
well-known Rebecca Nourse were sisters,daughters
of William Town of Topsfield, who settled here
as early as 1635. All these women had led ex-
emplary lives, were strong in the Christian faith,
with a native sweetness of disposition that
endeared them to their families and friends. They
became shining marks for this most cruel persecu-
tion, but their memory is still treasured, and their
eloquent appeals for justice and mercy have not
failed to find a place in the hearts of the genera-
tions that have followed them.
	The study of geology and botany is becoming
very popular throughout Essex county. Many of
the smaller towns and villages have organized
clubs through the influence of the famous Essex
Institute which has its head-quarters at Salem.
Some of the towns have exhibited fine collections
of wild flowers at the annual fairs of this county,
and Topsfield ought to send of its abundance, for
he flora of the village and its vicinity is rich. The
meadows, from early spring until midsummer, pre-
sent a succession of vivid colors from the multi-
tude and variety of wild flowers. Before the road-
side grass is green, and while the buds are yet
swelling on the trees, the cowslips or meadow but-
tercups, or marshmallows, as they are frequently
called, stretch up their vigorous yellow bloom out
of the watery hillocks, that ooze and sputter at the
lightest weight. The painted cups then follow,
whose petals shade from green to the brightest
red, forming a score or more of clustering cups,
that draw the water through their hollow stems
and drop it from the brim. Bryant sings in praise
of this flower, which is rarely found in New Eng-
land—
	“Scarlet tufts are glowing in the green, like lakes
		of fire!”
	The wanderers of the prairie know them well,
and call that flower “the painted cup.” Then
come the dark red trilium and the white buck
bean, the thickly strewn purplish red blossoms of
the pitchers, the “Jacks,” with their lords and
ladies, and the white azalea, rich in fragrance.
The last of the spring production is the arethusa,
with its variegated lip and bright pink petals, the
most fascinating, delicate and delusive of all the
water plants, for it hides itself in the most inac-
cessible places. The highways and fields are
covered with bloodroot, anemones, violets, brown
and blue, the dogtooth violet, nodding daintily on
its stem, blue hepatica, red columbine, the stately
slipper and the cardinal flower. In October, the
blue fringed gentians cover the meadows, and the
pure white gentian is often found by their side.
The woods contain fine specimens of ferns that
have attracted the attention of botanists. The deli-
cate brown fern,so often in demand for herbariums
is a native of these woods.
	The birds in Topsfield are of brilliant plumage,
and many varieties that have not visited their old
home for years, Having been driven away, it is
said, by those troublesome English sparrows, are
now returning in great numbers. Among them
the scarlet tanager and the gayly colored grosbeck
occasionally flash before us as we  pass through
the wood, while yellow birds, the little brown
thrush, bluebirds in variety, and hosts of golden
orioles, swinging in their nests, are seen daily be-
fore our doors. To appreciate the most beautiful
sounds of the country one should take an early
flight from the city. Come with the cowslips and
robins. In no other way can the infinite variety of
pleasures and surprises afforded by the lavishness
of nature be fully realized.
	Practically, life in Topsfield is one of general
prosperity.  "The poor ye have always with you”
scarcely applies to this village, for even the poor
[Column 3]
farm has less than six occupants. This farm is
pleasantly situated, and is one of the most produc-
tive in the town. They have an annex for the
“walking gentry,” commonly called tramps, who
lodge and are fed at the town’s expense. Coffee
was formerly furnished them with their bread, but
at one time so many availed themselves of this
generous provision that water was substituted.
The question of building a separate establishment
for these vagrants, at some place remote from the
village, is now under consideration. This will be
an additional grievance to them, as some have
already complained of the present short trip “over
the hills to the poorhouse.” The old academy,
which has been a landmark for many generations,
is quaint and interesting, situated on an eminence
in the heart of the village.
	The inhabitants of Topsfield follow in the foot-
steps of their ancestors, whose traditions and occu-
pations cling tenaciously to the soil. The natural
surroundings of the village seem to be a defence
against intrusion; and we should bless the ever-
lasting hills that preserve to us a peaceful old-
time village, the fulfillment of the Puritan’s dream.
—“V. R.,” in Boston Transcript.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The evening session of the Relief Society
was not so well attended as the morning had
been though there were more brethren present.
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presided, and the
meeting opened with the hymn.
		"O' my Father thou that dwellest," etc.
	Prayer by Mrs. Lucy B. Young.  singing
		"We thank thee O God for a prophet."
	President Young called for those Presidents
of Stakes who had not reported in the morn-
ing commencing with Mrs. Lizzie McDonald
who had formerly presided over the Relief
Society of Maricopa Stake, and was also
familiar with the organized Society in Mexico.
The speaker gave an excellent report of the
labors of the sisters in Maricopa Stake and
spoke especially of the Papago ward; gave an
interesting account of the way in which the
Indian women were being trained in house
keeping and other pursuits as also dress etc.
	Sister harmon teaches them music and to sing
by note and Sister McDonald felt it inspiring
to hear them sing.  Sister McDonald spent last
winter in Mexico enjoyed it very much said
some of the best people had gone there, and
had their boys around them, they have suffered
many privations in times past, and she sympa-
thized with them in many respects. Her de-
sire was to do good everywhere that her lot
might be cast, no matter where it might be.
She had never felt better in her life than now.
	Dr Pratt then read the totals of the general
report of the Relief Society which stated there
were now enrolled 16,747 members! and seven
stakes not reported, viz.  Davis, Emery, Morgan,
Panguitch, Parowan, San Luis and Wasatch,
	Pres.  Willmirth East gave a good report of
St. Joseph Stake and said Pres. C. Layton al-
ways attended the Sisters Conferences, they
were a good people down there and trying to
live their religion serve God and keep his com-
mandments.  Spoke in glowing terms of her
love of liberty and of the Constitution of
our glorious country, rejoiced in the freedom
its principles guaranteed, her sentiments were
in full accord with the emphatic declaration
of Patrick Henry when he exclaimed, "Give
me liberty or give me death."  Sister East
apologized for Pres.  Emma Brown's absence
from the Conference said she had been travel-
ing with her recently through Wasatch Stake,
and had enjoyed it very much, the Society
throughout the Stake was in a prosperous con-
dition.
	Counselor Sasah P. Crosby of Panguitch Stake,


spoke of the disadvantages they labored under
in the matter of distances, their Stake reached
65 miles East 55 to the North East and 50
North so that it was difficult to reach the
settlements often, there were eleven branches of
the Relief Society scattered over the county
some of them are very small. In these
branches some of the families are so far apart
they can only hold their meetings a part of
the year.
	Pres. M. Isabella Horne, of Salt Lake Stake,
regretted there were not more present, thought
that the instructions that had been given dur-
ing the late Conference should stimulate us
to go on in the cause of the Lord; she had
been visiting around the county and also in
the city wards trying to encourage to good
works. “Our Father in heaven will not
withhold any good thing from his children
who are doing good service in his kingdom.”
Advised the holding of annual meetings
thought it helped to keep up the interest, and
felt anxious to see an advancement in the
growth and progress of these organizations.
	Pres. Elizabeth Yates of Millard Stake.
Our settlements are very scattered, we try to
meet with them all once a year, sometimes
feel very weak and unable to perform the
duties of the position I am called to fill. Pres.
Hinckley meets with us sometimes and asks
special questions etc. We teach our children
the Word of Wisdom and try to train them in
the path of duty. We are not often visited.
Sister Horne made us a visit some years ago
and the sisters refer to it often; the brethren
sustain us in our organization and are glad to
attend our meetings; rejoiced in the good re-
sults of the Primary Association.
	Sister Kathinka Anderson reported Emery
Stake as in good working order and the sisters
full of faith and diligent in their labors. They
also labored under many disadvantages, were a
long way from the centre Stake of Zion and
had not had much teaching from experienced
sisters.
	Pres. Young made some telling remarks and
inquired concerning the Stakes not yet re-
ported, blessed the sisters especially those who
had come long distances to attend the meet-
ings, hoped the good spirit of the Conferences
would be carried to their homes, and that the
saints would increase and prosper in the land,
said many good things, and blest all the
assembly in the name of Jesus.
	Sister Horne added a few remarks and
spoke of the Convention in the afternoon.
	Sister S. M. Kimball thought all were grow-
ing weary, but she was deeply interested in
the proceedings of this day, she had been
looking back over the 47 years since the first
organization when there were about nineteen
members now there were 16,747, and there
were seven stakes of Zion not reported also all
beyond the sea in other lands. “This is no
small thing. We should increase in knowledge
and good works. We are as a light set upon
a hill, jealousy, prejudice, envy should not
find place in our hearts; one of the prime ob-
jects of this organization is self culture; a
committee has been appointed to regulate our
Stake Conferences, hope this will be brought
to pass. Woman’s work is progressing, was
delighted to see the baby in the speaker’s arms
to-day; it proved her equal to the emergency.
	Sister E. B Wells spoke upon the great
good to be accomplished by means of woman’s
aid in various directions, and alluded to the
results achieved by woman’s persistent agita-
tion in the New England States and else-
where of the injustice of the law in regard to
married women’s rights. Referred to the new
constitutions for the admission of States and
how they stood on the question of equal
suffrage etc, urged women to read and inform
themselves for their own sake and the good of
community. Thought we had need of charity
			[Column Two]
that we might be more helpful to each other
and be as charitable to others as we would
wish them to be to us.
	Dr. Barney read a written article.” The
beautiful we admire, and we can glean valua-
ble lessons from God’s disposition, in distribu-
ting, arranging and organizing the elements,
and forming mankind with the variety of dis-
positions and attributes that are made manifest
in the very beginning of his or her being.
	The placid disposition is admired because
of its evenness and possessing the property to
yield.
	The positive or active nature is admired
because it can remove difficulties and sur-
mount obstacles.
	The Skeptic is always in doubt, and restless,
not fixed in his purpose; in him hope and
faith are deficient.
	The artist is absorbed, and lost in his own
environment, and is only companionable to
others as they can grasp with him and have
lively imaginations of the ideality that exists
in his mind.
	Thus we may view the great panorama of
variety, as it passes before our eyes in imagin-
ation, both the animate and inanimate, animal,
and vegetable, and wonder as we admire and
ask ourselves the question. What is all this?
—God.
	The irritable husband is modified, as time
passes on by the worn, tired, passive wife, if
not in life, in death he learns her worth.
	The overbearing selfish child relents, when
it sees its injured sister turn from his tan-
talizing power and presence.
	Thus lesson after lesson is learned, and the
great school of experience is widened out, al-
most without limitation.
	We have the bitter and the sweet, also the
acid and an-tacid, they neutralize each other,
and in new formed compounds the original
nature of the element is lost. For example
the housewife readily understands that the oil
and alcohol, are antagonistical to each other,
and thus they neutralize each other, and form
a fresh compound unlike the first, the nature is
changed and will be no more the same unless
broken up from its combination and returns
to its original elements. Thus we may com
pare the life of a Latter-day Saint, the indi-
vidual is changed in his views and dispositi-
ons, and likings, by his surroundings,
associations, and heavenly influences, and you
learn his life’s history, you can discern that
if he has hugged closely to the laws of the
Divine Teacher, you will find pencil traces of
the master artist, if not, his history is more
rudely completed, and the final compound or
result is, an imperfect one and not so elegant.
	We read in Genesis 1-26. “God said let
us make man in our image after our likeness,
27 verse says, so God created man in his own
image.” God was, as we are, and we will be,
as he is, as we advance to that degree of
excellence and knowledge.
	The most of humanity are endowed with a
love for the beautiful, yet there are individuals,
that cannot discern green from blue, or a dif-
ference between colors, they are called color
blind, we might say they, were deficient in
their organization.
	Another is not a musician, he may have
time, but no tune, or he may have neither
time nor tune, who is to blame? who is the
originator of all this? who set the rugged cliff
behind the blushing flower? who caused the
weeping  willow to grow beside you cataract?
shall we faint because a truth exists, no! we
will in our delineation endeavor to portray
upon life’s canvas as it were with the painter’s
brush, forms light and shade with color, and
tint, until our imaginations and invention
have reached the reality.
	Did not Joseph in his life’s history and
character, imitate the life of Jesus? was not
			[Column Three]
his a life of virtue, and his a martyr’s death?
we may learn a lesson from him.
	Our entire being should be endued with
gospel graces. If our first thoughts in the
morning are to do the will of our Father, and
our last feelings at night are to do our
Father’s will, our rest will be sweet and our
final sleep will be heavenly.
	There is a growth in Zion, the knowledge
that has been obtained by sad experience in
some respects has made the boy more manly;
and the girl more womanly; and the people
more Godlike. The mason’s hands have not
been staid, but our temple is towering heaven-
ward.
	Pres. Young made some closing remarks,
felt we had been blessed in meeting under
such favorable circumstances in such a beautiful
place, spoke of her love for all the sisters and
felt grateful for this opportunity of coming
together and hearing from the several Stake
organizations, trusted much good might result
from the assembling of ourselves together in
this capacity; warned the sisters not to speak,
against each other, said our principles are
perfect in life or in death, let us abide by
them, thanked all and blessed them in the
name of Jesus. Amen. The congregation
arose and sung Doxology. Conference ad-
journed for six months, prayer by Elder C. J.
Thomas.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference held at
Mesa City, Sept. 19, 1889. Opened by the
usual exercises. Upon the stand were the R.
S. Stake officers and others; and also Pres. C.
I. Robson, Coun. H. C. Rogers, C. R. Hakes,
and Bishop Pomeroy. Sister M. A. Hakes
rejoiced at again meeting the saints, had been
away on a visit to the Snowflake Stake had a
very pleasant time, spoke highly of the hospi-
tality and general good feeling of the people
there. Reported the R. S. Society of the Mesa
Ward as doing well and in good working order.
Spoke upon the storing of grain.
	Sister Lizzie Macdonald gave a good report
of the Lehi Ward, thought their meetings were
improving all the time, said the people of the
world had rejected the prophets, but if an
astronomer made a prediction the whole world 
were looking for the result; spoke also of the
storing of grain.
	Sister Ann Kleinman reported the Alma
Ward showing that a portion of the sisters
were alive to their duties, encouraged mothers
to be more zealous.
	Sister Susan Savage spoke encouragingly of
the Papago Ward said the native sisters were
anxious to learn from their white sisters the
domestic duties of wives and mothers.
	Sister Esther Openshaw represented the
Nephi Ward, said the sisters were trying to do
their duties in the Society and to keep the
commandments of God.
	Coun. C. R. Hakes and H. C. Rogers, Bishop
Pomeroy and Pres. C. I. Robson encouraged
the sisters and gave some good advice. A
general good feeling prevailed. Adjourned for
three months.
			F. E. Robson, Stake Sec. R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE LOST LENORE.

	The cottage in which Edgar Poe wrote "The
Raven" has been torn down to make room for
more modern buildings:  but before it was
demolished, even for years, since the death of
Poe, relic hunters have visited the place carry-
ing away anything portable; shingles, wall-
paper, fire-place and window-lattice:  so that
really not much remained of the original
home.  Two trees stand on the high ledge of
rock which overlooks the beautiful Hudson
and from these, visitors carry away many a


sprig of leaves, as a memento of the spot,
where lived the Poet, who wrote the sad, sad
refrain, "Ah, nevermore."  The new home
will  bear no trace of the simple, old fashioned
cottage, except that these two trees will wave
their branches over its roof saying to those
who listen, "only this, and nothing more."  It
was in 1843 and 1844 that Edgar A. Poe and
his young wife lived here in the family of
Mr. Brennan, whose eldest child, (now Mrs.
General O'Beirne) remembers much of them,
as she was often with Poe while he was writing.
She recollects the wooden shelf nailed just
above the door of the room, on which stood a
small bust of Minerva; that there were no
purple curtains with "silken, sad, uncertain
rustle," and no tufted floor:  but she distinctly
remembers that the poem, Lost Lenore, was
read aloud to the family from manuscript.
How many since then have read, and reread,
until the lines are familiar, household words
the weird, sad story of The Lost Lenore!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DR. PAINTER.

	Dr. Hetty Kersey Painter, one of the faith-
ful suffragists of Lincoln, Neb., has recently
died.  The Woman's Tribune says of her.
"She was the most interesting historical person-
age among the women of Nebraska.  Her
death is a personal bereavement to all who 
knew her."
	"Mrs. P. was descended from staunch
Quaker families of West Chester, Pa., and was
one of the first women to graduate from the 
Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania.
At the breaking out of the Civil War she
offered herself for her country, and was on
duty as nurse and surgeon during almost the
entire conflict, securing testimonials of the
esteem of Gen. Grant and Sherman, and of
the devotion of the corps of which she was a
member, During her long residence in
Lincoln, her Sanitarium, where she used es-
pecially hygienic means, has been a blessing to
many, while all who were associated with her
learned to love her and to feel confidence in
her gentle, tender skill.
	"As the charter president of the Lincoln
W. R. C., she bore the interest of the boys
who had followed the flag near to her heart.
She was prominent in the W. C. T. U., and
has been an active member and officer of the
Nebraska Woman Suffrage Association since
its organization.
	"The funeral services was mostly rendered by
women.  Mrs. Ada M. Bittenbender repre-
sented the Woman Suffrage Association, and
Mrs. King, of the W. C. T. U., spoke in
loving commendation of her work.  The rites
at the grave were conducted by the Woman's
Relief Corps."


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Athens, Greece, has a Woman's journal.

	Mrs. Amelia Rives Chandler is writing a 
book about the children employed in mills.
	
	The net receips of the historical pageant at
Hartford, Ct., in honor of Mrs. Stowe,
amounted to $1,036.

	There are twenty-four Kindergartens, with
forty-six teachers, and attended by fifteen
hundred children in Boston, Mass. 

	Of the twenty-one young women now at the 
Brussels University, 10 study pharmacy, 7
physical science, 3 general medicine, and one
philosophy.
	
	The young ladies of the Wisconsin Uni-
versity are studying carpentry, and gaining 
proficiency in the mechanical department as

[Column 2]
rapidly as in the more intellectual studies in
which they are engaged.

	Mrs. Emily Crawford is writing “A Story of 
the French Revolution." As her husband's 
assistant during his lifetime, and his successor
since his death, Mrs. Crawford has been the
Paris correspondent of the London Daily News
for a quarter of a century.

	The October Century contains a very in-
teresting posthumous article by Maria Mitchell,
entitled "Reminiscences of the Herschels," with
a portrait of Miss Mitchell, and a picture of
her last observatory, at Lynn, Mass.
	
	Miss Ruth Wells of Ft. Wayne, Ind., who
died there Oct. 2, aged eighty, left her resi-
dence, worth $40,000, to the city, on condition
that the asylum for the blind shall be erected 
and maintained. Her mother was blind for
years.
	
	Mrs. Nora Buck, wife of the the engineer of
a passenger steamer which plies on Great Egg
Harbor Bay between Long Port and Somers
Point, N. J., presides over the engine-room
and is skilled in the management of the
machinery. Mrs. Buck is a granddaughter of
Commodore Lavalette and the daughter of the
founder of Lavelette City, N. J. She is as
 skillful in managing a sailboat as in running a 
steamer. She is only 19 years old and ex-
tremely handsome. Her husband says she is
the best assistant he could have in running his 
boat.

	Miss Caroline Whiting, seventy-one years
of age, has been a teacher in New York City
for fifty-three years. Says Miss Frances
Willard in the Union Signal: For fifty years
she has not spent a day in bed: has taught al-
ways in the same school (No 14), and worn out
two school buildings; has been forty years
principal and has twenty teachers under her
care, and has had not fewer than twelve
thousand pupils. Miss Whiting has had her
home for fifty years with Mrs Sabin and the
latter’s mother, both of whom were her pupils.
This is a pretty fair record for one "superfluous
woman."
	
	A very old lady has just died in London—
the Dowager Duchess of Beaufort— who,
years ago, was the unwitting cause of a piece
of far-reaching legislation. She  was the
second wife of the old Duke, whose childless first
wife had been her sister. When her husband
died, the question was raised whether her son
could succeed to the title, inasmuch as the
ancient ecclesiastical law then prevailing, while
not making such marriages void, provided for 
their being set aside by spiritual courts upon
appeal. After some trouble, the other heirs
acceded to the succession of the present
Duke, but, in order that such a dispute should
not arise again, an act was immediately passed
making marriage with a deceased wife's sister
illegal.


OBITUARY.

	Another good woman has gone to her rest.  Sister
Eliza Foulds wife of William J. Parkin died at her residence
in South Bountiful June 11th 1889.  She was born Decem-
ber 7th 1839 and emigrated from the Nottingham Con-
ference 1863.  She was the only one of her father's house
that embraced the Gospel. She was the mother of ten
children, nine of whom are left to mourn her loss.  She
was a good mother, a loving wife, and a faithful Latter-
day Saint.  Embraced all the principles of the everlasting
Gospel which have been revealed by Joseph Smith the
Prophet; and was a faithful teacher in the South Bounti-
ful Relief Society.  She died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint.
				Resolutions of Respect.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to call from
our midst, our loved and respected Sister Eliza F. Parkin.
	Whereas we are called to mourn a dear Sister and


colaborer in the Relief Society, one who has been a faith-
ful member and at all times willing to perform all the duties
required of her.
	Resolved that we the members of the Relief Society of
South Bountiful realize the loss of a faithful member in the
death of our Sister.
	Resolved that we extend our sympathy and condolence
to the bereaved family and friends.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be presented to
the family, the Woman's Exponent, and also placed on the
record.
					PHEBE ATKINSON, President.
					MARY ANN PAGE, Secretary.
South Bountiful, Utah.


[graphic]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
[text]
Tickets
ON SALE 
TO ALL
﻿PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City. 
C. E. INGALLS,  J. V. PARKER,
City Pass. Agt.	Div. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in	
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

	DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 18			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1889.			No. 12.


CONTENTS.

	Beauty Vs. Goodness.—X. Sabbath Day.—M.
E. Teasdale. Hephzibah.—A Story.  Foreign
Correspondence.—L. C. Lee.  Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL.—The People's Party.  Editorial
Thoughts.  Editorial Notes.  A Generous Gift.
In Memoriam.  Reasons Why.—Phebe C. Young.
Prayer.—Dr. E. S. Barney.
	R. S. Reports.  Women as Reformers.—Equal
Rights.  A Palace of Nineveh.—Ex.
	POETRY.—Thoughts of Childhood Hours.—L.
M. H. Hallowe'en.—George Cooper.  New
Fashioned Singin'.—Henry B. Smith.  Obituaries.


[For the EXPONENT.]
	THOUGHTS OF CHILDHOOD HOURS.

		Thoughts of my childhood hours,
			Revel awhile for me,
		And pluck from fancy's bowers,
			Fair leaves from life’s young tree
		Sweet buds of youth and beauty,
			Growing uncheck’d and free, 
		In loving truth and duty
			Oh, bring them back to me !

		Innocence, purest flower,
			Blooming on childhood's tree,
		Revive in fancy’s bower,
			And nourish it for me.
		Bring forth each fairy color,
			As erst in morn’s young day,
		Bud and bloom unsullied,
			As in life's early May.

		Bright, lovely, vernal garland;
			O bloom for me once more,
		In fancy's fairy garden,
			On youth's bright sunny shore—
		Let songs of artless gladness,
			Now wake an echo’d lay,
		In my tried soul of sadness,
			Cold waves of sorrow stay.

		Thoughts of my childhood hours
			Priceless thou art to me,
		Revelling in the wild-wood,
			Untramell'd pure and free.
		Could aught on earth be given,
			To soothe awhile my pain,
		'Twere thoughts of early morning,
			When life was free from stain.

		Ere poison’d shafts of malice,
			Or arrow barb’d with scorn,
		Had enter’d in life's chalice,
			To leave its rankling thorn,
		Then come, and o’er this bosom,
			Thy calm influence pour,
		And the world shall never know
			My dream of love is o'er.
									L. M. H.


BEAUTY VS. GOODNESS.

	Beauty, one of the noblest gifts of Almighty
God to man, is perhaps, the most universally
abused by its possessor.  Were it properly
used, it would be a passport into the best
society.  And when backed by true principles,
and gentle manners, what obstacle is there, in
the social line, too great for its possessor to
surmount?


Making a favorable impression at first sight,
and being enabled to deepen that impression
at each subsequent interview by the impression
of noble and unselfish thought, is the highest
ideal of a perfect human being within my
imagination.  But withdraw from behind these
beautiful features, the nobleness of mind, and
we have remaining, a conceited, ungrateful,
and (as a rule) an ignorant person, who thinks
that beauty alone, is worthy of praise! If those
same noble traits of character, and divine in
spirations were given to one less beautiful in 
outward appearance, it would be but a short
time before his plain features would cease to be
very homely, and he would be loved and wel
comed for true worth—his shy, awkward man-
ner, would become less noticable, in the con-
templation of his lofty sentiments.  And as the
face is the index to the soul, expressing there,
our general thoughts, his would in time bear
testimony to the worth within, though his nose
still remained "too large," his eyes "too small,"
and the skin "freckled."
	One of our authors says, "It is but a single
step from the thought to the deed."  Accord-
ingly if wicked thoughts are countenanced,
wicked deeds will be perpetrated, then not only
disproportioned features, but disproportioned
actions also, will mar our so much to be desired
beauty.
									X.


THE SABBATH DAY.

	"Remember the Sabbth day to keep it holy.
Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work,
but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord
thy God, in it thou shalt not do any work, thou
nor thy son nor thy daughter nor thy man
servent, nor thy maid servant, nor thy cattle
nor the stranger that is within thy gates."
This commandment is in force upon us, today,
and should be as strictly observed by us as it
was by the children of former day Isreal. The
Lord has never repealed that commandment
but has added to it in this day, and has enjoined
it upon us, through His servant Joseph Smith,
and it is recorded in the Doctrine and 
Covenants, see Sec. 29 verse 9, we are told
there to go to the house of prayer and offer up
our devotions to the most High. “For verily
this is a day appointed unto you to rest from
your labors, and on this day thou shalt do
none other thing only let thy food be preyared
with singleness of heart.” The Lord does not
say that we can keep part of the Sabbath Holy
and then we can do as we please the other part,
but He emphatically says no work shall be done
“only to prepare our food with singleness of
heart.  Many of our young people think be-
cause they attend Sunday School regularly 
they are justified in not attending the after-
noon meeting, but are at liberty to enjoy them-
selves, and have a good time, and they think
it no harm to go riding after meeting; but it is
plain to be understood that our Heavenly
Father does not look at it in that light, or He
would not have said that the cattle were not to
work.  And He did not say or intimate that
we could keep Holy only a part of the day.
	Sunday lasts from 12 o’clock Saturday night
until 12 o’clock Sunday night, as we all know
if we would think.  But it seems as though 
some of us thought Sunday only lasted ’til
noon, or the most until four o’clock. We are
not justified in working or in seeking pleasure

[Column two]
on that day, only as we are obliged to do, and
we are not obliged to go to work and cook a
feast on Sunday, but should as much as pos-
sible prepare our food the day before, and let
our bodies rest, and we can rest as well in
meeting listening to the cousels of the servants
of the Lord and partaking of the Sacrament,
as we can lounging around home depriving our-
selves of that spiritual food we all need in order
to remain bright and keep our minds and
spirits in a healthy condition.
	You say well don't we have the Sacrament
in Sabbath school and is not that sufficient?
	Yes, we have the Sacrament in Sabbath
School, and by partaking we covenant or
promise "God our Eternal Father that we will
always remember Him and keep His com-
mandments," and then we immediately break
one of His commandments by breaking the
Sabbath day.
	Perhaps we never thought of it in this light,
but that is what we do when we go out riding
or any thing else that is not right, even though
we have been to Sunday School.  Now girls
listen attentively the next time when the bread 
and water are being blessed, to the words that
are used, and then take it conscientiously with
an understanding of the great responsibility
you take upon yourselves, and I believe you
will soon be able to see and comprehend in its
completeness the right course to take to be
consistent Latter-day Saints.
					M. E. TEASDALE.


HEPHZIBAH.
				XI.

	And many listen’d, and a few obeyed,
		The precious message which the Elders brought;  
	And willing sacrifice these converts made.
		Counting their worldly wealth, and gain as naught.

	The history of the introduction of the Gospel
as taught by the Latter-day Saints, into the
village of B. in the Old Bay state, is similar in
many respects to that of other small towns in
New England, and elsewhere. Evil reports be-
gan to be circulated immediately after the
Elders had succeeded in making a few converts,
concerning the Prophet Joseph Smith and his
followers; and when argument failed to dis-
suade those who had been converted, or who
were favorably disposed towards the doctrines
taught, these false rumors were repeated and
brought to bear in trying to convince those
who were believing, that the people called
“Mormons,” were low, ignorant and deluded;
without any of the refinement of modern civili-
zation; and every story that imagination could
conjure up, was carried from house to house
and from town to town, to destroy the in-
fluence of the Elders in proclaiming the truth
as revealed from heaven.
	But the time was ripe for the dissemination
of the knowledge of the Gospel, the good seed
was being sown, and according to the parable
of the Savior in the New Testament, some fell
upon good ground and some did not, etc.—The
Latter-day work was spreading and many were
converted thereto. The news that the Elders
had been preaching in Boston, and Salem, and
that many had not only been baptized in those
cities but had actually gathered with the
“Mormons” to Nauvoo, seemed to add strength
and give courage to the converts in these
smaller towns; for the ministers, Doctors and


Judges etc., had said, that only in the places
away from the centres of wealth and culture
could such foolish doctrines flourish and find
followers; or such uncouth and unlearned men,
be able to obtain an audience. But here were
the facts published in the papers, that in
cultured Boston, sermons were preached, dis-
 cussions held, and a branch of the Church built
up, and families had gone West to the Latter-
day Zion. The particular village, and adjacent
ones with which the story we are relating is
directly connected, were about sixty and sixty-
five miles from Boston, and Boston ideas were
a sort of understood authority on all great
questions.
	The preaching of the Everlasting Gospel as
it was called by the new converts, was success-
fully promulgated by the local Elders, and
among these were the two young men fresh
from college. They used such excellent
language, and were so earnest and eloquent in
speaking and charming in manner, that many
young people were attracted to the meetings
and became numbered among the little band of
Saints.
	Among this number was one of the young
girls who had attended the high school at M.
and was also one of the "Club" of seven. She
was four years older than Hepsie and quite
capable of appreciating the truths the Elders
taught. She too had been brought up in the
Congregational Church but like Hepsie had
never been convinced that a change of heart
was necessary; to her the simple methods of
faith, repentance and baptism etc., were much
more real; and she complied with these condi-
tions and gave up the hopes she had enter-
tained of distinguishing herself in the world of
letters, for she fully realized the sacrifice she
was making. But there was one sentiment she
had cherished that was not easily eradicated.
She was in love, the young man to whom she
was engaged, was studying for a profession, she
was proud of his attainments, and she hoped
to convince him of the truth she had received,
and that eventually, if not immediately, he might
go with her to the Far West, and that her
dream of happiness which had been so fondly
cherished might be realized. It had been a
genuine love-affair; letters had also been inter-
changed for they dwelt in different places and
the engagement had been announced to friends
and kindred.
	Like many older and wiser than this young
girl, she had fancied in her enthusiasm that her
affiance would see as she did when he heard the
sound of the true Gospel. But alas! she was
doomed to disappointment. She sent for him
to come to the village for he lived miles away
in another town, and he attended several meet-
ing, but he could not see things as Miss R—
did, or was too proud to give up his ambition
or the place he hoped to win among men of
rank. This was a sad blow to the young girl,
and even her mother and grandmother felt she
had been too ready to make a sacrifice which
was likely to involve so much.
	Yet this young girl with every prospect of a
happy marriage, and her heart overflowing
with love for the object of her affections, was
still true to her integrity in the midst of this
severe trial, and bore up bravely; very few
ever knew what it cost her to put aside Love's
fond dream, and take up the cross, for she al-
ready knew that henceforth she must stand
firm and steadfast, and alone, for she felt then
that none other could ever be to her a com-
panion for life, so little we see of the future,
when our hearts are pained with sorrow, when
our "gold is being tried in the furnace."
	Miss Reynolds was Miss Fay's cousin, the
girl who had looked with disdain almost upon
Hepsie when she asserted herself so on the sub-
ject of love. She had a great deal to say to
her cousin about the matter when she saw her
after the engagement was broken off, and this
[column 2]
fact made it harder still for Miss R. to endure
the final separation.
	"How blind you must be to your own in-
terest and future welfare," said Miss Fay the
first time she met her after hearing the news,
"to discard a lover like Henry—and unite
yourself with a people so unpopular as the
Mormons! I am utterly astonished, why when
Aunt Rachel told me you had been baptized, I
sat down and cried like a child, we were such
friends you know,as well as being first cousins;
and even your mother doesn't approve of it,
nor your grandma either, and as for my mother,
your own Aunt too, she is horrified."
	All this in one breath, as it were before Miss
R. could possibly reply but she summoned cour-
age to say as soon as her cousin stopped speak-
ing.
	"You know very well that I did not break
the engagement, moreover that I love Henry as
truly as you love Ralph and expected to be his
wife some day; but he would not countenance
my association with Mormons even, and when
he knew I had joined the Church of Latter-day
Saints, he was furious, and although I entreated
him to listen to my explanations on the sub-
ject, he would not, and so we have parted in
anger after all our vows of eternal constancy
to each other; I never expect to see him again,"
mournfully replied Miss Reynolds.
	Then it will be your own fault, for he will be
willing to make up, its only a love quarrel, if
you'll renounce your foolish notions about this
new religion, and be sensible I'll manage
Henry with Ralph's help;" said Miss Fay.
	"I don't want you to do any thing of the
sort, if he could be so cruel as he has proved
himself, now, what might not happen during
a long life-time, I congratulate myself that we
were not already married, the struggle then
would have been a much greater one, but one
thing I must have back again from Henry
and that is my letters, and the notes I have
written him long ago you know, they must not
fall into any one else's hands," said Miss R.
	"Do you wish me to ask for them, or shall
Ralph tell him to return them?" said her cousin
inquiringly.
	"I think I will wait awhile," said Miss R.
"he may send them to me, he has gone home
now to A. and he will talk everything over
with his sister who was aware of our engage-
ment, and she never liked it very well, I fancy.
Hepsie Hathaway was a great favorite of hers,
and she would have been very proud of Hepsie;
I have no doubt she could manage this affair
of mine, getting my letters back you know,
she was always diplomatic, liked to manage
other girls' love affairs, and never had any of
her own, she's far too young yet to be seriously
in love—but we shall see in time," said Miss
R.
	"By the bye cousin Lucy, that reminds me of
having been told that Mrs. Hathaway had been
baptized by a Mormon Elder, is that true?
Hepsie is still away at school isn't she?" said
Miss Fay.
	"Yes, she is, and making rapid progress in
her studies, but her mother has sent for her to
come home to hear the Mormon Elders preach,
who are expected here from Boston now in a
few days; and it is also true that Mrs. H. has
been baptized; the ceremony was performed for
us both on the same day, the same Elder
officiating, Mrs. H.’s two youngest girls were
also baptized, my cousin Clarissa and the two
sons of Mr. W. who left college and came home,
when they heard their mother had been healed
by the power of God through the administra-
tions of the Elders,', said Lucy.
	"Do you mean, Miss Clarissa the old maid?"
	"I certainly do, she is not very old either,"
replied her cousin rather doubtfully.
	"Not very old! why she was an old maid
when we were children cousin mine; but she'll
get married out West no doubt, when she goes
[column 3]
to Nauvoo; is that the place you talk so much
about going to when 'the way opens?'"
	"Now Hettie, she is not thinking of that,
but of the new truths she has found, and she
rejoices as we all do in meeting together to sing
and pray, marrying is out of the question."
	"Yes here perhaps, because she has let the
time go by, she is out of date, but in the West
I have heard even old maids find husbands,
but I'm more interested at present in these
young men just from college, I have heard the
eldest son is very handsome, dark complexion,
a good figure—fine eyes, and quite polished in
his manners, and you say cousin that he has
been baptized by a Mormon Elder, I can
scarcely believe my senses."
	"Cousin you need not trouble yourself about
his beauty or his manners, while you have
Ralph, there are fine-looking Mormons doubt-
less married and single."
	"Cousin Lucy!" cried Miss Fay excitedly,
"if you can secure Mr. W. I'll forgive you for
breaking off with Henry, and you can if you
will for you are more than his equal in every
respect, and what a handsome couple you would
be, and how all the girls would envy you."
	"Cousin dear," said Lucy Reynolds solemnly,
"I have no heart for joking. Every time I
think of Henry, my courage almost fails me,
and you must not talk to me of marriage with
any one. Henceforth my life shall be devoted
to the interests of the Church, and I hope to see
my mother and grandmother converted to the
same faith that I have espoused. And you my
dear cousin whom I have always so fondly
loved, my playmate from my childhood, let me
entreat you to come and hear the preaching
of these Elders and you too will be convinced
of the grand truths they proclaim, promise me
you will come."
	"I cannot, my mother will not permit it,
and Ralph would be more offended than Henry
is, were I to consent to go to a Mormon meet-
ing."
	And so the two cousins separated for a time,
one light-hearted and indifferent to religion,
the other with a hope buoyant in her soul that
God would over-rule all things for good to
those who trust Him; and yet sad when she re-
called the separation from her lover, her
affianced husband.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. ﻿


BEECHER SAID.—"I pity those women
whose staff is their needle; for when they lean
upon it, it pierces not their side, but their heart.
The devil’s broad sword, in this world, has
often been the needle with which a woman
sews to earn her daily bread. I think the
needle has slain more than the sword of war.”
“Any feeling that takes a man away from home
is a traitor to the household.” “The mother’s
heart is the child’s school-room.”   If a man
is odious in society, he might as well be in
prison. The worst prisons are not of stone,
they are of throbbing hearts outraged by an in-
famous life.”


In Binghamton, N. Y., at the County Court
and Court of Sessions, held Oct. 23, the
following cases on motion were ordered to be
dismissed: The people vs. Emily Brooks, of
Kattelville, and others, indicted for violating
election laws of the State of New York; the
people vs. Alfred Brooks, indicted for pro-
curing illegal votes. These are the cases, it
will be remembered, of the women who voted
at Kattelville, several years ago. They were
indicted, and the indictments are now all set
aside. Mr. Brooks advised the voting,
believing it to be legal under the existing laws
and constitution of New York. District
attorneys are not anxious to bring this class
of cases into the courts.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HALLOWE'EN.

Only a picture from my boyhood’s past—
A picture that on memory’s walls shall last

An Autumn sunset bathed the farm-house old
With deepening tints of ruby and of gold,
And leaves of yellow, purple, brown and red,
Like jewels, everywhere a lustre shed.
Within the merry shouts of boys and girls—
A happy mother’s cluster of fair pearls;
And grandma, with her knitting, rocking slow,
Upon her dear, old face a peaceful glow. 
She thinks of other eves that she has seen,
And other hearts that played on Hallowe’en.
Cuddled in craddle, bady coos with glee,
And rafters ring with mirth and melody,
And round and round, with clear, sweet voices sing:

	“Russet or bough or bitter-sweet,
		Greening	or golden	pippin;
	Happy are they that do the feat
		While their heads they dip in.
	Bob, bob, bibbety bob,
		You take one breath between;
	Oh. this is the way we children play
			On Hallowe’en!

	“Russet or bough or bitter-sweet,
		Greening	or golden	pippin;
	Only the lazy find defeat
		While their heads they dip in.
	Bob, bob, bibbety bob,
		You take one breath between;
	And this is the way we children play
			On Hallowe’en!"

Now mystic spells are hovering in the air,
And grandma tells us from her rocking chair,
Of long ago when she, a little child.
Joined in these revels, and the fun grew wild.
“Ah dears," quoth she, “with salt held in my hand,
Before the glass one night I chanced to stand;
For I was told that one who loved me best
Would o’er my shoulder peep before I’d rest.
Then o’er my shoulder I the salt would throw;
All this was many and many a year ago,"
"And did you see a face?” with wonder-eyes
Some one would ask. Grandma would look so wise.
“I did, my dears; the charm ne’er failed with me,
I looked, and o’er my shoulder I could see 
The face of one who loved as loves no other—
The gentle face of my own sweet, sweet mother!’
		—GEORGE COOPER in The Golden Days.


NEW-FASHIONED SINGIN'

Afore Sue went to town ter school
	She sung ez nat’ral as a bird;
She didn’t warble then by rule,
	But when her pipin’ voice I heard,
I’d quit work jest ter hev a tune;
	The men about the place did, too;
But sence she came from school last June,
	She don't sing like she used ter do.

In singin' I'm a tarnal dunce,
	Somehow I can't stick ter an air;
But when a lot sings all ter once
	I growl a few words here an' there.
But Sue, a baby, tired o' play,
	Inter her mother's arms 'ud creep,
An', in her drowsy little way,
	She'd kind o' sing herself ter sleep.

I liked her hymn tunes mighty well:
	Her hymns in gen'ral struck me right,
Like "Dennis" an' old "Silver Street;"
	And there was one—my favorite.
Now how was it that tune began?
	I only recollect one bit—
"Her brow was like the snowdrop an'
	Her throat was like the swan's"—that's it.

An' then there was a song about
	"Endearin' young charms' an' ze how
If she should lose them charms, no doubt,
	The feller'd love her jest ez now.
An' one about a gal whose beau
	Was not well fixed an' went away;


Then ez her father’s funds was low,
		She took a chap named "Robin Gray.”

	An' now all day she caterwauls
		Four hours or so, and never fails
	At lots o’ monkey-shines she calls
		Her exercisin’an’ her scales.
	The same consists o’ prancin’ roun'
		With whirligigs and curleykews
	An’ caperin’ up an’ dwindlin doun
		With no more tune than squeaky shoes.

	An' if so be her ma observes,
		"Yer pa would like ter hear yer sing,”
	She then begins ter rack my nerves
		With some consarned Eyetalian thing.
	These songs that’s writ in furrin tongues
		Are mighty high toned tunes maybe;
	They may be good ter test the lungs,
		But words jest makes a song fer me.

	I don’t enjoy her singing much,
		I s’pose ray taste is kinder rough.
	An' all the things she's learned is such
		Gymnastic, hyfalutin’ stuff,
	Them hymn tunes now she says is queer,
		I an’t no doubt but what that’s true;
	But still I wish she'd let us hear
		The old songs like she used to do.
							HENRY B. SMITH.
Hearth and Hall.


FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
			Vatia, Tutuila, Samoa.
				   Oct. 1 1889.
EDITOR EXPONENT:—
	Since last writing to you we have changed
our home from Aunuu, to Vatia, a village on
the northern side of the island of Tutuila.
And here the first Latter-day Saint mission
house, on Samoa, has been built. The brethren
have labored hard and faithfully, to build a
home that might be a resting place for the
Elders who are called to labor on Tutuila and
Aunuu. And how delightful it is to have a
home of our own to dwell in. One where we
may have a few moments to ourselves, without
six or eight natives with their greasy, almost
naked bodies, lying on the floor smoking, and
asking all sorts of silly questions; always pre-
fering to talk about how the cars run, what
kinds of food there are in America, what
the houses look like, if there is lots of nice
cloth etc. rather than faith, repentance and
baptism.
	On the 17th of June the quiet routine of
our daily life was broken into, as our boat was
seen in the fog, bringing the four missionaries,
B. Solomon, B. Smoot, H. E. Booth, and J. J.
Bennett, who had arrived that morning on the
steamer, Maraposa. All was excitement! We
felt as though we could hardly wait for them
to land; so anxious were we to meet them and
hear the news from home. And oh! with
what impatient, eager hands we opened our
boxes or valises sent by kind relatives and
friends, as necessities, and comfort to cheer us
in our far off home. For the time being we
were as a lot of happy children, to whom Santa
Claus had just paid his respects. And many
were the exclamations of surprise, that burst
from our lips as we unpacked our goods.
	July 24th we spent as a holiday. We
were just settled in our new house, and after
partaking of a nice dinner; we strolled off in
little groups, for pleasant walks along the
sandy beach, through the tall cocoanut groves,
or up the beautiful mountains so densly
covered with ferns, shrubs, climbing plants
and all kinds of tropical vegetation, and
occasionally a miniature Niagara Falls which
had a tendency to make the stroll very
romantic, and pleasant. As the glorious sun
gradually fades behind the high mountains
which surround our village, and the beautiful
twilight is struggling with the shades of night,
we all gather on the lawn in front of the house,

[Column 2]
where we have songs, accompaniments on the
guitar and mandolin, lively conversation and
lemonade. In the evening we had a splendid
missionary meeting, the Spirit of God being
felt to a great extent. And so ended a very
pleasant day on Samoa. We all felt sorry
Bro’s. A. Beesley and M. E. Booth were not
present, as we know they were spending a
lonely day on Aunuu.
	Pres. Dean and family, Elders E. J. Wood,
B. Solomon, and B. Smoot, are on the island
of Upolu, near the capital, Apia. Elders
Wm. O. Lee and family, A. Beesley, H. E.
Booth, and J. J. Bennett, remained here.
They are laboring hard among this people,
but are baptizing very few, still they do not
feel discouraged, but rather filled with a firmer
determination to over come every obstacle, and
accomplish every duty; realizing that God
alone can convert this people, and that if they
warn them of the judgments to come their
garments will be clear of the blood of all they
warn.
	This people are a very lazy, indolent race:
also a nation of liars, thieves and adulterers.
When told of their sins, they coolly say; “We
know it is wrong to do so, that it is in
direct opposition to the teachings of the Bible,
but that is the way of Samoa, and we don’t
feel like doing otherwise.” And they go on
in their sins, prefering evil to good, darkness
to light.
	These people are great hypocrites, they come
to us as dear friends, with great love, in order
to gain some personal advantage. It is so
aggravating to be imposed upon by “a wolf in
sheep’s clothing.” We have to cultivate
patience continually. We find that we must
be very charitable toward this people at all
times, and under all circumstances: making
allowance, for what has been born and bred
in them for many generations. Leaving
judgment for one who is able to judge and will
do so in much mercy. Their greatest redeem-
ing quality is their hospitality to strangers
who may be passing through their villages.
	On Sept. 19th at 8 a.m. we felt quite a
shock of earthquake, our houses trembled and
shook, reminding us of the explosion of the
powder magazines, some years ago, in Salt
Lake City, only we did not receive as long
or severe a shaking. The natives were very
much frightened. Three of our elders have
just returned from a missionary trip, having
preached in twelve villages, and being denied
that privilege and told to leave two others.
They did so; not however until they had read
part of Luke X, to the assembled chiefs and
warning them of what they were doing.
	This is the beginning of summer on Samoa.
The thermometer registers 92 in the shade, but
the nights are nice and cool. We are all en-
joying good health at the present writing.
						L. C. LEE.


NOTES AND NEWS.
 
	Miss Helen Castle, of Honolulu, Sandwich
Islands, is taking a course at the Harvard
Annex.
	The lady who writes poems under the name
of E. Nesbit is Mrs. Edith Bland. She is a
vigorous socialist, and lives at Lee, one of the
suburbs of London,
	A young lady stands first in the com-
petiition for the six $800 scholarships at Cor-
nell University. What’s the matter with
the young men of this day and generation?
	Miss Clara Barton has completed her work
at Jamestown, and has returned to Washing-
ton, D. C. A public reception was given her
at Willard’s Hotel, Saturday Nov. 2. followed
by a banquet, to which more than two hun-
dred persons have been invited. Commissioner
Hines of the District will preside.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.	
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms: 
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No 
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount 
o regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second 
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m 
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to  
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
				SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter.	
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	 November 15, 1889.


THE PEOPLE’S PARTY.

	The meetings of the People’s Party Clubs are
creating quite a stir in the community, and will it
is to be hoped arouse the inactive and indifferent
to come forward and do their part when there is
so much at stake. The speeches made at these
meetings have many of them been genuinely elo-
quent and magnetic not stale old political bom-
bast, but really original.
	The music of the bands adds much to the en-
thusiasm, for what American citizen does not feel
patriotic sentiments aroused when he hears martial
music with the fife and drum. It brings fresh to
mind the history of the country and the many
thrilling incidents recorded of heroic courage and
victory’s gained for the nation of which all loyal
people and especially dependents of Revolution-
ary sires and mothers are so justly proud.
	The riding clubs are going to make a grand
display, the People’s Party will not need to be
ashamed of the Utah Mountain boys on horse-
back, nor of the marching clubs either, for the
young men born and reared here in these moun-
tain fastnesses partake of the strength and
grandeur of the “everlasting hills."
	The spirit of the pioneers too is implanted in
their souls, the desire to be free from oppression,
and maintain the liberty guaranteed by the funda-
mental principles of the government of our com-
mon country.
	The women of the people feel these patriotic
sentiments glowing within their souls as much as
men do, and are as ready to give expression in
whatever way is open and practicable for them.
The women are admitted as members of the
clubs, and although they have no vote, they have
a voice, and should be able through their powers
of persuasion to exert a wide-spread influence in
advising and encouraging and inspiring their
husbands, fathers, brothers and sons.
	Women mounted no horseback look very
beautiful and would certainly add much to the
magnificence of display and give a particular zest
to the enjoyment of the exercises. It seems to
us to be a very proper thing, and there is nothing
young ladies like better than to be mounted on a
handsome horse with gallant young men beside
them.
	Gen. Joseph Smith when out on parade as
many of the people will remember always had
some of the ladies among the cavalry, and here
in the the valley it will be recollected it was a
regular custom of the officers, when out for drill
to have an escort of ladies on horseback. Fine
horses and accoutrements, banners and flags and
soul-thrilling martial music make a wonderful
difference, and relieve the monotony of regular
drilling. It is a desirable accomplishment to be a
good rider and the exercise is one of the most
healthful and bracing. The People’s Party need


not be behind in anything that will inspire them
with sublime courage,and that is nesessary in any
place where there is a contest going on, and in
this coming election no pains should be spared
but all honest and honorable efforts made to
secure the people in their maintenance of polit-
ical freedom.


EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.

	The present number of the Exponent closes
the half volume, and we must remind the agents
and subscribers that some have only paid fifty
cents on volume 18 and that the six months has
now expired and we hope all these will continue
their patronage and also that others will come
forward and help by their subscriptions in sus-
taining the woman’s paper. It is the only paper
published in Utah at a dollar a year, and it has
for over seventeen years been the official organ
of the women of Zion. The Exponent has al-
ways published reports of women’s organizations,
and meetings as many as the space would admit
of, not only the Relief Society but the Young
Ladies’ Associations and Primary Associations;
the printed matter has by this means kept the
sisters in all parts of the Territory and in all the
Stakes of Zion posted in regard to what was
transpiring in these associatious, in a sort of
general way. so that there might be a uniformity
in the methods of work, and in the general results
to be reached.
	The Exponent has always given information
on the suffrage question, and has aimed to keep
pace with the cause as it advanced in various
parts of the United States and Great Britain.
During the time when the women of Utah voted
and when bills in the special interest of women
were pending before the Legislature, the Expo-
nent was always ready to advocate and maintain
the woman’s side of all vexed questions. Bio-
graphical sketches of many of the leading women
of the Church are to be found in its columns,
they were carefully written from the testimony of
the women themselves,and in one or two instances
by the person herself. These are records of the
lives, or of incidents in the lives of some of the
most eminent and heroic women, who have lived
in this dispensation. There are many more
sketches and histories to be written, and the
columns of this paper are ever open to publish such
sketches and incidents,and also the best thoughts,
sentiments and opinions of the women of the
Church in prose or in verse. Essays on all sub-
jects are accepted and it has been the desire of
those connected with the paper from the first, to
encourage young women and those in years to ex-
press their thoughts, experiences and testimonies
for the benefit of others and to leave them upon
record.
	Since the organization of the Woman’s Suffrage
Association in Utah, notices of every mass
meeting and convention have been published and
many speeches and minutes of meetings as well.
It is certainly in the strict sense of the word a
representative woman’s paper, and it is most de-
sirable that every President of a Relief Society
should have a copy, and as many others as can,
because it gives them the idea of their own
work and that of others, besides general in-
formation. If the President of the Relief Society
has not the means to pay for it, then the Society
should pay out of its Treasury for at least one
paper, to be read from at meetings and circulated
among the members. Agents for the EXPONENT
will use their utmost influence for the extension
of the circulation in order that the paper may
continue to be issued at one dollar per year. The
sisters will bear in mind that the EXPONENT is
not supported by advertising but by regular sub-
scriptions. To all those who have written for the
paper in past years we would say, continue to

[Column 2]
write and help make the paper a repository of the
best literary productions, of the times, and bear
in mind that this work is educational, and also
that it is better to represent yourself than to be
represented by others. The newspapers of the
United States have much to say concerning
“Mormon women,” and it is certainly a duty to
speak in their own defence, in the pages of their
own paper, and tell their own story in their own
way.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	In Dr. Barney’s article published in our last
issue, where she spoke of oil and alkali, it is
changed in error to alcohol, it should be alkali.
	All readers of the EXPONENT should carefully
peruse the address entitled Women as Reformers,
and also Mrs. M. J. Tanner’s address at the Mass
Meeting in Provo, and Reasons Why, by Mrs.
Phebe C. Young they are worth being re-read in
the Suffrage meetings throughout the Territory.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of the
Salt Lake Stake will be held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Hall in this City on Thursday Decem-
ber 19th meetings commencing at 10, a. m. and
2, p. m. as usual. A representation from each
branch of the Relief Society is earnestly desired,
and it is sincerely hoped there will be a large
attendance of the members, as this is a time when
union and a faithful discharge of duty on the
part of each individual member seems impera-
tive. Bishops and other brethren, are most
cordially invited to attend the Conference as
also all interested in this benevolent organi-
zation.


A GENEROUS GIFT.

	The Directors of the Deseret Hospital desire
to make acknowledgment though the press of the
gift from the Ghurch, of the proceeds of the
Gilmore Festival, held in the Tabernacle in this
city recently. After the expenses were paid, the
Hospital received the balance, amounting to five
hundred dollars. This sum includes a handsome
donation from the General Tithing Office, Salt
Lake Tribune, Salt Lake Herald, Deseret
News and Bishop H. B. Clawson.
	To each and all of those who so freely con-
tributed to this worthy and charitable institution,
the board of management hereby tender sincere
thanks, and express their appreciation in behalf
of the sick and afflicted, of such deeds of kind-
ness.
				E. B. WELLS. Treasurer,
Deseret Hospital Association.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 9, 1889.


IN MEMORIAM.

		"Of all the thoughts of God that are
			Borne inward unto souls afar,
		Along the Psalmists music deep,
			Now tell me, if that any is
		For gift or grace surpassing this
			He giveth His beloved sleep!"

	On Tuesday morniug October 22, at 6. 10, a. m.
Mrs Sarah Dunford beloved wife of Elder George
Dunford of this city, departed this life at the
family residence in the seventeenth ward; her
children were around her bedside and so peaceful
was her falling asleep that they were scarcely
conscious it was death. Indeed the feeling of the
presence of the grim monster at whom all stand
appalled was not in the house. She literally fell
asleep according to the promise made to the
Latter-day Saints that they should not taste of
death.
	The disease that preyed upon Sister Dunford


for some time and which she had combated
bravely, and several times successfully, even when
death seemed inevitable, was an affection of the
heart. At times for some weeks together her
sufferings had been intense, and only faith in the
Gospel and the administration of the Elders had
been her support in these times of affliction.
Many were the precious promises made to her
by the brethren, who were called from time to
time to exercise the power of healing in her be-
half. In her illness she was attended by loving
hands, and hearts and everything that caresses
and affection could do to lighten her affliction, or
alleviate her pain was tenderly and dutifully per-
formed by her children, grand-children and
friends.
	Mrs. Dunford was born in Trowbrige, Wilts,
England on the 11th of May 1825 and was aged
64 years 5 months and 11 days at the time of her
decease. When a young girl we have been cred-
ibly informed she was considered quite a beauty
in her native town, having a clear complexion,
large blue eyes and golden hair; she was such a
favorite with all that she was designated the
flower of the village, not only on account of her
beauty, but amiability, her attractive manners and
the sweetness of her disposition. She was
married at nineteen to Brother George Dunford
and subsequently became the mother of nine
children; two sons and two daughters are still
living, the others have gone before her and her
meeting with them will assuredly be a joyful one;
her grandchildren were twenty-four in number,
seventeen of them still living. Sister Dunford
received the Gospel in early life in her native
land and gathered to Zion with her husband and
family twenty-two years ago, in the fall of 1868.
	Brother and Sister Dunford went to reside in
the 17th ward at that time and have lived there
ever since. The following Spring the Relief
Society was organized in that ward and Sister
Dunford accepted the position of a teacher in
the Society, which calling she filled with honor
and faithfulness, until her failing health rendered
it absolutely necessary she should discontinue
her labors in the Society. In social life she was
very agreeable and pleasant, courteous to all, very
unassuming, though when drawn out in conversa-
tion animated and capable of brilliancy in social
converse. Sister Dunford accepted the Gospel
it its fulness including the principle of plural
marriage, and when her husband was imprisoned
for “unlawful cohabitation” she stood by him
with the firmness of a true and devoted wife,
without murmur or complaint. She was indeed a
mother in Israel, not only to those of her own
household, but to many in her quiet and tender
way. Her judgment in matters of economy and
business management was excellent, and her
counsel always on the side of right and justice;
she endured the many trials and crosses of life
with patience and serenity, always endeavoring
to fulfill the smallest duty with that prcision and
regularity that characterizes the truly noble. Her
home was her heaven and it was there she loved
best to be with her dear ones around her.
	Her protracted illness and its effect upon her
made her long for rest, that rest which is calm
and peaceful, and that sweet rest she has found
and we can only say it is well, “God knew the
best.”

	"O earth, so full of dreary noises!
	O men, with wailing in your voices:
	      O delved gold the wailers heap!
	O strife, O curse, that o’er it fall!
	God strikes a stillness through you all,
	      And giveth his beloved sleep."

	The funeral of Sister George Dunford was held
at the old home where she had dwelt so many
years, and experienced so much of joy and of
sadness, on the afternoon of the 24, of October.
Now she was to go out from it forever. Loving
hands had prepared her for burial and as she lay

[Column 2]
in her saintly robes in the magnificent white cas-
ket, she looked as though she was already
celestialized. Wreaths and garlands of flowers,
the gifts of those who loved her fondly, adorned
the bier and a sweet and solmn peace pervaded
the house.
	The services were conducted by Bishop John
Tingey, and opened with singing by the quartette
Messrs. Spencer, Whitney, Pyper, and Goddard,
		“When the swallows homeward fly. etc."
	An eloquent and touching prayer was offered
by Elder Goerge Bywater, Singing,
		       “Spin Spin, "etc."
	The speakers were Bishop O. F. Whitney,
Pres. Angus M. Cannon and H. A. Naisbitt.
	Pres. Cannon referred pathetically to her ex-
emplary life and energy of character and spoke
of having watched her tottering form as she went
to and from the Tabernacle to attend divine ser-
vice. Many precious things were said calculated
to comfort the living, among other sayings, that
she was accepted of God.
	The anthem “She is not dead but sleepeth” was
rendered by the quartette and the benediction
pronounced by Elder Rodney Badger.
	May the consolations of the Holy Spirit comfort
the sorrowing ones, and may they remember her
wise counsel and integrity and say in their hearts.

	"We will do likewise; death hath made no breach
	      In love and sympathy in hope and trust;
	No outward sign or sound our ears can reach,
	But there’s an inward, spiritual speech
	      That greets us still though mortal tongues be dust.’


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REASONS WHY.
	The old order changeth, yielding place to the
new. And God fulfills Himself in many ways.
So sang the Poet and so say we who live in the
midst of the light and knowledge of the Nineteenth
Century. When the march of intellect and im-
provement is making such rapid strides that we
have to get up early in the morning and shake our-
selves well, to in any way keep up with the spirit
of the times; of one thing we are assured that wo-
men will not be left behind in the race, especially
when all are needed as reformers to clear away
the rubbish and dust of ages; the old fogy notion
that women will be unsexed if they have a voice
in making the laws by which they are governed,
and a right to vote for those who adminster them,
will soon be an exploded idea and a thing of the
past. It is a tradition handed down from the dark
ages, from the days when might was considered
right. When a man might steal his wife from his
neighbors castle and there was no redress, if he
happened to be the stronger; and though it is
true that to-day brain rules, yet it is also true that
much is still necessary to be done to bring about
the complete emancipation of women, a right
which they have a privilege to crave and even de-
mand at the hands of the government under which
they live, to stand on an equal plane with men
politically that they may have the privilege of
having a voice in making all laws, but particu-
larly LAWS that effect their own sex; and the right
of the ballot to secure the election of such men to
office as will justly and wisely administer them;
that they may be qualified to work with all good
and true men for the amelioration of the sorrows
of the human race and of their own sex in par-
ticular.
	I ask is there not a necessity for this? Is there not
a cry going up throughout the length and breadth
of the land; a cry of the widow and the orphan,
a cry of destitution, and also a cry of degradation
and shame from the helpless victims of the lib-
ertine and the seducer of innocence, who can pride
himself upon his station in society and can walk
boldly among the respectable; while his poor de-
luded victim sinks to the depths of woe and des-
pair, and if laws are made to punish men for such

[Column 2]
crimes as this, they often fail to reach the case
and for the woman wronged there is no
redress.
	But say some, these are not fit subjects for pure-
minded women to discuss. No! we can shut our
eyes, sit one’s self down in our rocking chairs,
hug our delusions, draw up our skirts as we pass
by and say, I am holier than these. But a day will
come when we shall be called to give an account
for the use we have made of our opportunities and
the amount of good we have done to the poor and
the oppressed. There are thousands of noble-
minded men full of philanthropy, who would
gladly find a remedy for the so called social evil,
but alas! they are in the minority; right minded
women desire nothing better than to support such
men in office, if they had the right of suffrage. This
is reason sufficient, if there were no other, why
woman should have a right to cast her vote at the
ballot box. It is argued by some that women do
not desire the right of suffrage and would not use
it wisely if they had it. Let me ask, do all men
use it wisely? But say some, woman is so safely
guarded in her home she has no occasion to be-
come acquainted with the rough realities of life, it
would jar her sensibilities. It is the place of man
to care for and provide for her. No doubt this is
true, and happy would it be if all were so pro-
vided for and guarded; but we cannot go in the
face of facts and they tell us that tens of thou-
sands of women, even in this most favored land,
rise every morning to fight a hand to hand con-
flict with man for their daily bread; they stand
with all the disadvantage of having no represen-
tation of their own sex when laws are made. A
master hand will sometimes lift the curtain and
we see beneath the surface into the depths below.
We behold the struggles of suffering humanity, we
hear a bemoaning of fallen women and the cries
of helpless children; while the ashes of murdered
offspring cry aloud for vengeance. When we con-
template such a scene as this, we feel ready to call
upon all good women to give the lawmakers of
our great country no rest until they give unto wo-
men equal rights with men to use the talents that
God has given them, that they may be competent
to assist in making such laws as will benefit
both men and women equally.
	Oh woman last formed and fairest of all God’s
creations; how art thou fallen from the high
estate to which thou wert called! Is there not a
balm for thy wounds, and where is the physician
that shall heal thee? Woman has been compared
to a clinging vine and is always supposed to have
a sturdy oak to which she can cling. The oak
stands strong amidst the trees of the forest, the
vine lovely but frail, with glowing flowers and.
curling tendrils, stands alone looking for some
support. The oak bows down his leafy branches
and tells her if she only twins her tendrils about
him, he will be a shelter to her from the heat of
Summer, and will protect her from the blasts of
Winter; that no danger shall come near her while
he is nigh. This is a beautiful picture; would
that it were always a true one; there are many
clinging vines but where are the sturdy oaks to
which they can all cling? When we look upon
the realities of life, we see a far different, state of
things. We are aware that there are some wives
surrounded by the loving care of husbands,
blessed with the duty and affection of children,
with the comforts of home and the society of
friends; in such a case we are ready to exclaim,
what more can women wish for? We reverse the
picture and what do we see. We must give up
the lovely figure of the clinging vine and see a
vine torn from its support, the scorching suns
of Summer have fallen upon its withered leaves,
and dried its roots, the cold blasts of Winter have
torn its tendrils and dragged it from its support,
and it stands alone with drooping form seeking in
vain for the support it so greatly needs. So it is
with many a woman, and if she is nothing but a
clinging vine hard is her fate.


If perchance she is fortuate enough in the days
of her youth to find the noble oak to which she
can cling, or imagines she can, he goes forth in
the strength of his manhood to meet his fellow
man in the battle of life; he can face the world
for he stands on an equal footing with all whom
he meets, he has a voice in the election, of the
officers who make the laws by which he is gov-
erned, and is eligible to hold any office to which
he may aspire or to which he may be elected; she
devotes the best twenty or thrity years of her life
to a labor of love; she toils and she suffers and
complains not; she endures days of pain and
nights of watchfulness, and is well-contented so
long as she can minister to the wants of hus-
band and children, well would it be for her if
provision were always made for her declining
years; instead of this she too often finds herself
standing alone bereft of him she held dear, broken-
down both mentally and physically, yet is she
compelled to face the world anew, to strike out
into new and untried paths, to begin the battle of
life afresh, without the strength and energy that
was hers in the days of her youth before she de-
voted herself to her labor of love; she is not only
often compelled to work for her own support, but
also to provide for a helpless family.
	What is now her situation as compared with
her brother man, she performs a double duty, she
raises and provides for her family, she is the head
of her household,she is amenable to the laws; if she
has property it is taxed, but she has no voice in
framing the laws or in the election of the men who
administer them. Is not this an injustice? Hath
not a woman eyes? hath she not ears? hath not
a woman brains? is not her intelligence of as high
an order as the negroes? And it was considered
sufficient reason to deluge the country with blood
that they might enjoy rights that are denied to
woman! It is thought by some, if woman has the
ballot there is danger that she will forget her wo-
manhood, she will lose her refinement and aspire
to positions that nature and her delicate organiza-
tion unfit her to fill. We ask would she be less a
woman? would she not still be a wife and mother?
would she fulfill these duties less faithfully because
she knows she stands on an equal footing with her
husband politically as well as socially? Would
she be less a companion for him because she can
converse intelligently on subjects that interest him
most, or would she be less competent to instruct
her sons, or would they respect her less because she
understood the jurisprudence of the country which
they are in duty bound to honor. Many noble
women are awake to the importance of this sub-
ject and are agitating the waters of public opinion
and they will eventually triumph, for it is well-
known all great reforms have small beginnings.
We do not intend to sit down in the corner and
cry for sugarplums when there is so much needed
work to be done, we do not believe in the fiction
of the clinging vine, for although woman is more
delicate in her organization than man, though she
may sometimes carry her love of the refined and
the beautiful to an extreme, still her heart is of
oak, and when called to pass through scenes of
trouble and distress, often exhibits a fortitude and
carries burdens at which man would shrink, and
when the trumpet sounds and the watchman on
the tower cry aloud that the day is breaking, wo-
man will be there with man and receive the re-
ward of victory.
					PHEBE C YOUNG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRAYER.
		BY DR. ELVIRA S. BARNEY.
	AT THE U. W. S. A. CONVENTION HELD IN
THE S. L. ASSEMBLY HALL.

	O Ood, the Eternal, the Father of the heavens
and the earth, in the name of thy Son Jesus
Christ, we a small portion of the human family
have assembled ourselves together under is


roof for an especial purpose and we do pray
Thee, that Thou wilt inspire both the speakers,
and the hearers, with a portion of thy heavenly
divine influence, that good shall be the result of
our assembling together that we may learn, and
prepare ourselves for storm, or fair weather: for
war, or peace, for prosperity, or adversity. Thou
hast blest us in early youth, thou hast been with
us all the journey of life thus far, and we pray
Thee, that Thou wilt forget us not in our declin-
ing years. Thou didst cause that the earth should
roll into existence, and from chaos it was formed.
Thou didst cause that the earth should produce
vegetation, and that the human, and animal crea-
tion should subsist upon it, and dwell upon its
face; and now we do implore Thee, that Thou
wilt bless the earth, that it may still bring forth
vegetation, and that Thou wilt cause the dews of
heaven to descend, and the rains in due season.
Wilt Thou temper the climate for the good of
mankind, and all animal creation, that we may
feel to praise Thy holy name that mankind does
live. Wilt Thou the Great Eternal command
the lightning, the earthquakes, and the elements,
that they may be manifested for the good of all
vegetable, and animal creation. We pray for
the weak; we pray for the afflicted, and we pray
for the strong, that they may be willing to help
carry the burdens of the weak. We pray that
Thou wilt in Thine own way and time, mellow
the hearts of the wicked aud immoral, that Thy
grace may spread and form a canopy over the
whole earth, that sin and wickedness may not be
known, and righteousness triumph. Wilt Thou
be with the rulers of the nation, that Thy voice
shall reach their ears in their council chambers,
that they may fear to make unjust laws, and that
they may study to improve and make better those
already formed, that the cries of the people may
not reach Thee because of oppression. Wilt thou
soften the hearts of the rigid, that the means that
man has at his disposal may be used for the whole
of humanity, may they not forget their benefactor
but ever bend the knee in humble reverence to
Thee. Wilt Thou be with woman as Thou hast
with man, to strengthen her where she is weak
that she may aid in the defense of truth and
right, and where her voice is heard throughout
the broad face of the earth, may it have echo in
the hearts of the honest, and may she serve to
smooth the wrinkles of unjust laws, as she does
and has, the pillows beneath the aching heads of
Thy soldiers and servants. We pray Thee that
Thou wilt bless Thy handmaidens here in this
little nook in the valleys of the mountains, that
we may perform noble and grand acts that will
compare with the grandeur of the mountains
around. Hear us O Father at this time, and ac-
cept of onr humble offering for we dedicate our-
selves, our meeting, and our cause unto Thee,
asking a forgiveness of our sins, in the name of
Jesus. Amen.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS
		     UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Conference of the Relief Society
of Utah Stake, held in the Meeting house,
Provo, City, August 30, 1889. President
Mary John presiding, assisted by her Coun-
selors. Conference opened by singing and 
prayer. The minutes of the former Conference
were read,also the half yearly reports from the
different branches of the society.
	Sister John said she felt pleased to meet the
sisters in Conference again. Was pleased with
the reports, it showed the sisters were using
their means to help the poor, etc. “We meet
here together from time to time to gain
strength from one another. We have been dis-
appointed in not having Sister E. B. Wells with
us as we expected. We will hear verbal reports
[Column 2]
form the different Presidents who are present."
After reports from the Presidents, Sister John
called on Sister East—from Arizona—who was
present, to speak to us.
	She said: “Although my face is strange my
spirit is in unison with you. I have been
absent from this part of the country for ten
years; previous to my going south I lived where
I could hear and treasure up the words and
teachings of President Young, and Sister Eliza 
R. Snow.” Spoke of the changes she ex-
perienced in attending meeting, quoted some
of the inspired sayings of Heber C. Kimball.
“Let us attend to our duties, it is not wisdom
to fill up our time with vanities, teach your
children holy principles, they have a mighty
mission to perform,” etc.
	After singing, and benediction by Sister M.
Daniels, Conference adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m. Con-
ference commenced by singing and prayer.
	Sister East spoke to us again occupying
most of the time in the afternoon, giving a very
interesting account of her first hearing the
Gospel of the Latter-days preached. Was
taught by her grandparents that when the
right gospel should be preached the signs that
are spoken of in the scriptures should follow
them that believed. The first Mormon hymn
she ever heard sung was, “What was witnessed
in the heavens.” And the Elders then gave
an account of Joseph Smith’s mission, and we
were promised that if we sought for it we
should know for ourselves. I sought for a tes-
timony through fasting and prayer, and
received the gift of tongues and prophecy, and
rejoiced saying, now I know that God lives; I
bore a testimony to the same in meeting, at
that time, the Elders were persecuted and spit
upon by some. My father said go home with
me and I will find a place for you where they
will not spit on you, the Elders replied, never
mind they spit upon our Saviour. I had
promised to believe and could I after receiving
such a testimony, be a traitor? It is now 30
years since I covenanted to obey the Gospel
and I feel determined to stand faithful to the
end. Joseph Smith died for the Gospel. “A
mother may forget her nursing child, but the
Lord will not forget His people." The God of
Joseph and Brigham and our God will de-
liver us, Amen.
	Sisters Standring, Cluff and Daniels and also
Susa Y. Gates made additional remarks in the
same spirit and bore strong testimonies to the
truth of this Latter-day work.
	Sister John felt that we had been blessed in
meeting together, wished to bear her testimony
with the rest of her sisters. Conference was
adjourned for three months. Singing,
		"The spirit of God like a fire is burning."
Benediction by Mother Duke.
					C. DANIELS, Sec.

		LAIE, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.
PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG:
	Our half yearly conference of the Relief 
Society of the Hawaiian mission was held at
Laie, Oct. 5. We had a very interesting con-
ference the branches all being better repre-
sented than at any previous one, and a much
better understanding of their duties is plainly
manifest, it is new to most of them, hence they
make many mistakes, but in most instances
they are very zealous, to learn and do all that
is required of them.
	It will be seen that we are making some pro-
gress, nine new organizations have been or-
ganized since last April. There are now 31
branches with a membership of 570. As the
mission is increasing in numbers so in like
proportion will our branches increase. A few
years ago it was a question with the Elders of
the mission of the advisability of organizing a
Relief Society among the Hawaiian Sister


[column 1]

﻿thinking they were incapable of managing and
successfully conducting their meetings and 
other matters growing out of such an organiza-
tion. But time has proven to the contrary
and now the Relief Society in its several 
branches is regarded as one of the great ad-
juncts of the spread of the Gospel in the
Hawaiian Mission.
	Representative Sisters were called and set
apart to travel as Missionaries, who have visited
all the branches of the Society and where the
numbers would justify branches were organized
also visiting and encouraging all the sisters,
where their numbers would not justify an or-
ganization; we have also done some traveling
in which we have experienced great pleasure
and enjoyed much of the Spirit of the Lord
even to the shedding of tears, at the manifesta-
tion of the power of the Holy Spirit in the
midst of our Hawaiian Sisters. We would be
pleased to receive any words of counsel and en-
couragement you may in your wisdom feel to
give, as we are young, but striving to do all we
can in our feeble way.
	With kind regards to yourself and all the
sisters in Zion, I remain your colaborer in the
cause of truth.
					LUCY M. KING.
	Oct. 9, 1889.

				HYRUM
	Oct. 2, was the anniversary meeting of the
Primaries of Hyrum ward, and shortly after 
10 o’clock the meeting was called to order by
Pres. Martha Allen of first district. Singing,
"Gladly Meeting." Prayer by Stake counselor
Emma Pike, repeated by the whole congrega-
tion. Singing, "Now let us rejoice" etc, Minu-
ets of October 2nd 1888 were read and
unanimously accepted. Annual reports from
the 3 districts were read. Besides an in-
crease of membership and hearty responses to
exercises allotted them. There has been in
the whole ward about 50 dollars donated and
gathered by these primaries. 34 dollars of 
this has been used to gather poor children from
Europe. Over 4 dollars towards a sacrament
set for meeting house and for other good and 
praiseworthy purposes has the rest been used.
They have also made 6 quilts which were on
exhibition at the fair and furnished 18 yards of 
good home-made carpet for meeting house
stand. Truly we can say with the Poet,
They are the busy bees of Deseret. Many 
good and appropriate exercises were rendered
during the meeting and we could truly echo
the sentiments of the speakers. A marked
improvement has been made. Pres. Jane E. 
Molen, sisters Mattie Hanson and Emma Pike 
her counselors, together with our worthy
Bishop made some excellent and timely re-
marks, showing the mission before us was to
build up the Kingdom of God; to exercise
faith, attend to our prayers, cultivate good
manners, the spirit of kindness. Guard
against profanity and disobedience. Observe
punctuality. Not to use tobacco only for
bruises and sick cattle and gave other good
and valuable instructions. All officers were
unanimously sustained with two changes. Sing-
ing,  "In our lovely Deseret.” Benediction by
O. H. Rose. brought a profitable and spirited
meeting to a close. 
	2 p. m. The Primary Fair was opened in the
school house. The sum of 5 cents being the
admission fee. Together with many others I
went and saw what Primary children can do.
And to say the fair was a grand success would
be only what it merited. The indetatigable
labors of Prests. Counselors and members in
arranging and making the Fair, are very com-
mendable. Our boys with case and pocket
knives seemed to have been very busy in
making ladders, rakes, wagons and many
other things. Our girls all the way from 3

[column 2]

years upwards had been very busy with their
needles and crochet hooks. Our fruit and
vegetation were excellent and luscious. There
was some work which was done by brethren
while boarding with Uncle Sam which deserved
praise. There were 3 paintings by H. H.
Petersen Jun. exhibited, which called forth
considerable praise for his first attempt. A
quilt was shown to us which took 10 years to
save all the little pieces. Every piece being
spun and wove in the family. It is impossible
to do justice to all who had so earnestly
labored and contributed for the fair in this
short article. It certainly took great patience
and earnest work to make it what it really
was, a successful fair. 
			    Yours Truly,
						J. WRAY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]﻿
		WOMEN AS REFORMERS.
	Mrs. President and Ladies: I have chosen
to speak to you this evening on the subject of
Women as Reformers. At the same time ac-
knowledging my inability to do even partial
justice to so grand a theme.
	It is well known to all those who are in the
least familiar with the history of the past and
present, that the path of reformers of either
sex has not been strewn with roses, and
especially is this true of the brave pioneers
who have dared to step aside from the path
which man with innate selfishness has decreed
for ages past that woman should tread.
	In the first half of the present century many
of our sister workers in the Suffrage cause
manifested the true martyr spirit in the interest
of freedom and equal rights. Of this class
Mrs Stanton says of Abby Kelly Foster, "that
if she had lived in the days of martyrdom she
would have been burned at the stake." Suffice 
it to say she continued to expound her convic-
tions in the face of difficulties which would
have appalled any but the stoutest hearts.
Suffering all kinds of persecution, scorn ridi-
cule and violence. Speaking whenever, and
wherever she could find an audience, whether
in barn, schoolhouse or the open air. She with
many others in the early days of the anti-
slavery conflict endured the double odium of
being Abolitionists and “women out of their
sphere.”
	At the World’s Convention held in London
in 1840 the women delegates were denied ad-
mission as delegates, simply because they were
women, not from any lack of capability or fit-
ness, as we can see at once, when we know
that the delegation comprised such leading
spirits as Lucretia Mott, Emily Winslow, and
Anne Philips, with others of like fame. Among
the women lecturers of this century we find
Mary Ashton Livermore among the most
noted. From sketches of her early life we
find that the natural bent of her mind was
shadowed forth even in her childhood,much to
the dismay of her stern New England parents,
who had been born and brought up in the
creed that it is unseemly for a woman to speak
in public. She would frequently collect an
audience of her schoolmates and speak to them
with such fervid, passionate eloquence as to
move them to laughter or tears as the occasion
and her subject demanded, for which she was
severely punished by her father, who was an
orthodox Baptist deacon, who held very radi-
cal ideas on the proper sphere of woman. He
always deplored the fact that she had not been
born a boy that he might have educated her
for the ministry as he was sure she would have
made a famous preacher. However it appears
that the accident of sex could not control her
destiny and despite the fact of her being a
woman we find her in her maturer years a
benefactor to her race, a lecturer to whom the
masses delight to listen, and in addition to

[Column 2]
this we are told that she is a model wife and
mother, and an exemplary housekeeper, not-
withstanding we are often told by our brother
man that the two vocations are absolutely in-
compatible.
	Prominent among the writers and reformers
of the present century we find the venerable
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, now nearing her 73rd,
birthday. She has spent nearly half a century
in ably advocating the good cause.  She is the
daughter of a distinguished Judge, and on one
occasion when she appeared before the Legis-
lature of her native state as a champion of the
unpopular cause of woman’s rights, she made
use of the following words in the course of her
grand argument. “Yes, gentlemen, we the
daughters of the Revolutionary heroes of 76,
demand at your hands the redress of our
grievances, a revision of your State Constitu-
tion and a new code of laws.” At the close of
her speech which had been listened to by a
brilliant and talented audience, she was ap-
proached by an eminent lawyer who had known
and revered her father, and who congratulated
her on her success as a speaker, assuring her
that her father, the distinguished Judge Cady,
could not have excelled her, this tribute she
doubtless considered sufficient praise. It has
been said of Mrs. Stanton that she has been
quoted, ridiculed and abused into a national
fame. In fact such has been the fate of all
who have represented the cause of woman.
When their arguments have been conclusive
and unanswerable their opponents have always
resorted to ridicule and abuse which proves
the weakness of their position.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony next claims our at-
tention as an earnest and efficient worker in the
cause of Temperance and equal rights.  She
began life as a school teacher, receiving the
munificent salary of $8.00 per month, although
being credited by school superintendents with
having the best disciplined school and most
thoroughly taught scholars in the County.
Still at the same time for the same work less
well performed they were paying men teachers
$30.00 per month. The manifest injustice of
this policy struck her very forcibly when after
15 years faithful labor and by practicing the
closest economy she had saved $300. This
experience taught her the necessity of woman’s
contending for her rights, and when the
momentous question began to be agitated, she
was prepared to enter the contest heart and
soul. She is and ever has been a friend to the
oppressed, and was an active and faithful
worker in the Anti-Slavery cause until the
Emancipation proclamation rendered it no
longer necessary. It has been said of her that
she deserved the fame she has gained as a re-
former and that she will be remembered by
future generations when all strife and contro-
versy concerning woman’s rights shall have
passed away.
	Among those women who deserve honorable
mention for having the courage of their convic-
tions and not being afraid to suffer for woman’s
cause are the sisters Abby and Julia Smith of
Glastonbury Conn. Descended from Revolu-
tionary ancestors they firmly believed the
doctrine that “taxation without representation
is tyranny.” They were determined to stand
by their belief at whatever cost to themselves
Consequently rather than voluntarily pay taxes
to support a government in which they had
neither voice or choice, they allowed the
sheriff to dispose of their cattle each year for
the payment of their taxes. Of course this
resulted in pecuniary loss to them, but it pre-
vented the sacrifice of a principle which was
dearer to them than their worldly goods.
Hence they have earned the right to be classed
among the reformers of our day and age.
All honor then to the brave women who have
been first and foremost in the great work of
reforming the wrongs of ages, who have en


dured scorn, ridicule and social criticism, and
as a reward for long years of patient toil they
have received a very few privileges where they
should have inalienable rights; and these very
grudgingly bestowed. Women may continue
indifferent on a subject of such vital import-
ance to unborn generations, Congress may con-
tinue its adverse Legislation, State Legislatures
may continue a deaf ear to the petitions of over
half the native-born citizens of their respective
states, but the good will yet be reached not-
withstanding all the obstacles, for equal suffrage
is among the purposes of the Almighty and in
the near future will be the acknowledged law
of the land, and a grateful posterity will surely
accord the meed of praise to those heroic wo-
men which is so fully their due, and which is
now withheld from jealousy and selfishness.
May we all live to see the glad fruition of their
fondest hopes, is the earnest desire of,
						EQUAL RIGHTS.
	Manti, Utah.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]

		A PALACE OF NINEVEH
	One of the great palaces of the city of
Nineveh in the days of Assyrian glory.
	The excavations which were made by Mr.
Layard some years ago, and recently by Mr.
George Smith, on the site of the ancient city
of Nineveh, have rendered it poesible to form
a good idea of what must have been the
beauty and style of its royal palaces. They
appear to have been built on artificial mounds
varying in height from thirty to fifty feet
above the surrounding plain. These were in
some cases construed of [---] or bricks,
and in[---] merely of earth and timber.
The former prevail at Nimrud, and the latter
at the group now known as Kuyunjik. A
solid wall of masonry protected the face of
the mound, and majestic flights of broad
steps led up to the palace itself. Some of the
mounds were of enormous extent, looking in
the distance like natural elevations rather
than the work of human hands. The palaces
erected on these mounds or platforms were of
two or more stories, aud were built of huge
beams and sun-dried bricks faced with slabs of
alabaster.	
	When Assyria was overrun by the Medes,
assisted by the Babylonians, about 656 B.C.,
Nineveh, its capital, was utterly destroyed,
and its people made captive. Happily, when
the chief buildings were overthrown, the beams
and material of the upper stories protected
the contents of the lower stories, and these
were further preserved from decay, though ex-
posure to wind and rain, by the accumulation
of rubbish under which they were buried.
In some cases this layer was twenty feet thick.
	In 1845 Layard succeeded in penetrating to
the ruins under the rubbish, and still later
Mr. George Smith continued the search. The
reward repaid all the toil and danger. A
large number of tablets—nearly ten thousand
—were found covered with inscriptions. The
writing had   been done on terra-cotta clay
while it was soft, and the tablets, which were
about a foot square, were then subjected to
heat until they were hard. They were then
set up against the walls of the rooms in the
king’s palace, and formed the library. One
collection was commenced by King Shalmane-
zer about 860 B. C., and was largely increased
by Sardanapalus, his successor. After
immense labor the writing has been deciphered,
and it is found that the tablets contain a con-
tinued history of the reigns of these kings.
They also bear records of current traditions.
Very remarkably, there are two records sub-
stantially confirming the Mosaic account of the
Creation and the Deluge.
	The early history of Nineveh is involved in
much obscurity, although there is reason to

[column 2]

﻿think that it was one of the cities founded by
colonists from Arabia during the later period
of the Cushite civilization. It is mentioned by
Herodotus, Strabo, and other classical  his-
torians, in terms indicating that its origin to
them was scarcely known, and that its great
antiquity was a matter beyond doubt. In 401
B. C., when Xenophon led the 10,000 Greeks
in that celebrated march which he recorded, he
passed over the territory on which Nineveh
had stood. Alexander the Great, about
seventy years later, fought the battle of Arbela
in the vicinity; and none of his historians
mention the fact of the nearness of the site of
the Assyrian Capital to the place of conflict
	What remains have been since disclosed show
a relation to the Phoenician type of archi-
tecture, which was derived, like the general
customs of those commercial people, from the
ancient Arabians.
						Phenological Journal.


The minutes of Mass Meeting at Provo, and
Mrs. Tanner's eloquent address, also Leaves
From My Journal, Gilmore's Concerts, and
Mrs. E. S. Taylors visit East, are left over for
lack of space.

	Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake, at the recent
annual meeting of the Pennsylvania Woman
Suffrage Association, told how "Old Abe," the
famous war eagle, passed his time after his re-
tirement in laying eggs, to the astonishment of
his keepers. She called out much merriment
by saying, in reference to the American eagle,
"Gentlemen, your eagle is a hen!"


OBITUARIES.

	It becomes my painful duty to record the death of our
beloved Sister Margaret Helen, daughter of Gibson and
Elizabeth Condie, and wife of Wm. Palmer, who died
November 3, 1889, leaving a husband and six small
children who deeply mourn her loss.
	Sister Palmer has only been married eight years, but she
was the mother of seven children having had two pairs of
twins. 
	She was a kind and affectionate wife, a loving mother,
and a friend to all who knew her. She was a firm Latter-
day Saint and has been President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Croydon ever since its organization. She was always
cheerful and had a kind word and good advice to give
every one, she always manifested in her labors a meek and
unselfish disposition; her precepts and examples will long
be remembered. 
		Heal the wounded-hearted husband,
			Who has been so tried and true;
		And protect that little infant,
			Whom its mother scarcely knew.
							M. A. THACKERAY.

	In affectionate remembrance of Benjamin Franklin
Burrows, who died Oct. 28, 1889, being exactly 12 years
and 7 months of age, of typhoid and spinal disease, which
last complaint had afflicted him from 2 years of age, his
little spirit always seemed far beyond his tender years, his
talent for music could not be surpassed, and the gift of
memory far excelled that of children; which was al-
ways noticable at Jubilees, Sunday Schools, and Primary
Meetings; he took great pleasure in laboring in the Deacon's
Quorum which he never missed, always trying to assist his
young brethren to make the meeting interesting; his re-
ligion the last summer was his delight; he was very kind to
neighbors and playmates, and especially to little children.
At the age of 10 years he had great enjoyment in playing
the snare drum for our brass band, he studied night and day
to keep pace with the older members, but on account of his
belng so small he had to give it up which grieved him very
much; but this did not discourage him, the piccolo was his
next study and the last day he sat up he took his lesson.
All that could be done seemed of no avail, his dying testimony
to his loving mother, was grand in one so young. He ex-
amined his short life, and felt satisfied he had done all he
could and felt so happy; said he "tell the primary children to
call for the Elders when sick in life or death and they will
be so happy." His counsel to his older brothers and sisters


was to spend their best days for the work of God, and
never miss their meetings, the brethren's kindness to him
was beyond expression. We feel God has called him as a 
brave little missionary to work behind the vail, for such our
Father needs on earth and in another sphere, and may we
live to pattern after his example though 'tis hard to spare
such a dear boy.

Farewell dear Frank until we meet, God's work shall be our
	chief delight,
Until the resurrection dawns then may we be all shining
	lights.
										E B.
	Huntsville, Weber Co.


Union
Pacific
The
Overland
Route

TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST, 
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET  OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City,
C. F. Ingalls		J. V. Parker,
City Pass. Agt.	Div.	Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 18.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1889.			No. 13.


CONTENTS.
	Not so Fast.—M. E. Kimball. Hephzibah.—A
Story. Leaves from my Journal.—M. J. Tanner.
The Mayflower at Plymoth.
	Editorial. Mormon Doctrine and the Court.
Seventy-one. An Eastern Trip. Editorial
Notes. Thorns and Roses.—Aretta. An Address.
—Mrs. Julia Cruse Howe.
	Semi-Monthly Meeting. Millard Co. W. S. A.
A Mass Meeting. Annual Washington Conven-
tion. Notes and News.
	Poetry. A Dream.—Ida May Davis. Long-
ing for Holiness.—L. M. Hewlings. Childless
Homes. Some Day of Days.—Elizabeth Stuart
Phelps. I Often Wonder Why ’Tis So.—A. J. R.


A DREAM.

The rose's heart is red, so red,
	The thrush's song is sweet, so sweet;
The west wind thro' the rushes play,
	To-day is happiness complete.

Ah, I forget how fast time flies!
	I thought this moment it was I,
Who smiling tossed her brown hair back,
	And to the song made soft reply.

It must have been the friendly touch
	The evening breeze laid on my brow,
I smooth my locks—the soft light melts,
	I know my head is snow white now.

Why mourn when I have but to look
	At eve, adown the purple lane,
And feel the cool wind's light caress,
	To live the olden days again.
						—IDA MAY DAVIS.


LONGING FOR HOLINESS.

O, for a holy faith, no terrors to discern,
	Oh for a clearer sight my path to trace,
Beyond all gloomy doubts of weakness or repining,
	Into the shining light of truth and grace.

Poor wearied soul, let not thy faith be shaken.
	Gaze up and onward toward that blissful clime,
Where all thy powers shall to new life awaken,
	No more to feel the chilling blight of time.

Dear Father draw to thee my lost affections back,
	Clear from mine eyes the mist that hides from view,—
Give the worn soul once more its pinions free
	To find the truer tife,—by grace renew.—

Touch and make pure and free the flame that knows not
		death,
	Bearing it up to heaven, love’s own abode,
O pity, and forgive all vain idolatry,
	And take from me I pray, this grievous load;

Chasten’d and school’d at last from worship vain I turn,
	To one whose voice alone can give me rest.
No earthly image in my heart shall sit enthron’d
	To mar my vision from the regions blest.
								L. M. HEWLINGS.


NOT SO FAST.

	While traveling through this short journey
of life we often meet bright, intelligent people,
whose earnestness of zeal and sincerity of heart
we admire, and find them quite agreeable com-
panions, because intelligence and sincerity are
always deserving admiration when coupled
with humility; without this we are apt to go
too fast, and jump at conclusions too readily.
	An instance of this kind occurred some time
[Second Column]
since. It was at the Assembly Hall on the
day of Judge Elias Smith's funeral.
	At that time a company of school teachers
were traveling through to California, and see-
ing the people gathering to this house they
came in, (that is a few of them), and after
taking seats the one who sat next to me made
some inquiry, and seeing the congregation had
not yet assembled we had a little chat.  In
reply to my question she told me they had just
arrived and expected to leave the next day,
also saying they were from Kentucky and New
Jersey. Her first question was  "What is the
Beehive emblematic of, which is painted on
the wall above the organ."  I told her it was
emblematic of us as a people. We belong to
the working class. She thought it a good
emblem; then asked the name of the President,
after telling her, she asked if he was on the
stand. 
	I told her the President of the Stake was
there, but not the President of the Church.
She wished to know if those were officers seated
there. I replied there were some of the Twelve
Apostles, Bishops and also Seventies, saying
this Church is organized according to the
ancient pattern of Jesus and His Apostles. She
asked quickly, "where do you get seventies."
I replied in the New Testament.
	No not in the Testament she replied I have
read the Testament and there is nothing of
seventies in it. I thought I could find it, but
could not tell the chapter and verse, accord-
ingly did not contradict her but let the subject
drop.
	After returning home I took the book to
search for Seventies. I found it in Luke 10
Ch. 1 vs. it reads: "After these things the Lord
sent forth other Seventy also, and sent them
two and two before His face into every city,
and place, whither He Himself would come."
And in the 17, vs. we read: "And the Seventy
returned with joy, saying Lord, even the devils
are subject to us through Thy name.
	A feeling of regret came over me as I called
to mind the bright, intelligent face of the
young lady who was so positive that I was mis-
taken. I was sorry from my heart that I
could not tell her the chapter and verse, be-
cause from her appearance she seemed to
possess honesty of soul and sincerity of heart.
But a little self conceit caused her to be too
fast in her decision of us as a people. I re-
membered that forty-eight years ago I was in
that position myself, and this honesty of soul
and sincerity combined helped me to see the
gospel as taught by the Saviour of the world.
At that time I could see that our minister was
too fast when he only used part of St. Paul's
words to convince me that I was wrong. 
	He said you must remember "Whether
there be prophecies they shall fail, and tongues
shall cease, leaving out the next line or clause
of the verse, (and knowledge shall vanish
away). Would he acknowledge this? oh no!
knowledge was increasing. So it seems in
temporal affairs; but what of the spiritual; I
leave this for yourselves to judge.
	I shall never forget how thankful I was to
see my mistake; and have always been thank-
ful that the gospel has been restored exactly as
the Saviour taught it when He was here;
knowing we could not be prepared to meet
Him under any other circumstances, or
another doctrine to that which He gave to the
human family. My Sabbath school lesson came
forcibly to my mind, we find in Mathew 7, Ch.
[Third Column]
21, vs. it is written, "Not every one that saith
Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of
heaven; but he that doeth the will of My
Father which is in heaven." 22, vs. "Many will
say to Me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we
not prophesied in Thy name? and in Thy name
have cast out devils? and in Thy name done
many wonderful works?" 23, vs. reads "And
then I will profess unto them, I never knew
you, depart from Me ye that work iniquity.
	This class of people I think are too fast.
They lean too much upon their own strength
and the wisdom called worldly wisdom. A
humble and a contrite spirit, putting our trust
in God which we can do when we keep His
commandments, will bring us His blessing.
	We have learned this lesson many times.
One time in particular was, when Johnson's
army came to destroy us as a people, root and
branch. Was there ever a time when we were
more earnest and sincere in calling upon God
our Father for wisdom, and the intelligence we
were then in need of? Did we get it? Yes the
army was defeated without one drop of blood-
shed.
	In this we rejoiced; but how did they feel?
They were angry; and felt that they could
have eaten us without a grain of salt. So we
were told. But our Father saved us while they
were called home and the privilege (if we may
say so) to shed blood to their hearts content.
Again our Saviour's words were fulfilled when
He said: "In the world ye shall have tribula-
tion but in Me ye shall have joy." Can any
one who lived in this valley at that time, be
doubtful, lacking faith in God to-day? No not
unless they forget God; If so, they should call
to mind that He never forgets any only those
who forget Him.
						M. E. KIMBALL.
	Nov. 11, 1889.


HEPHZIBAH.
					XII.

		Faith that alone withstands the heaving tide
			Of fond emotions in the human heart,
		Can sacrifice ambition, vanquish pride,
			And conquer love; must be of heav'n a part.

	How true it is that “man proposes but God
disposes,” and we in our own hearts sometimes
decide upon a course of life entirely different
to that which circumstances afterwards as it
were compels us to follow. Many young,
lovers have fondly dreamed of a blissful future,
but have been cutoff from its fulfillment in
one way or another, just when the charmed
cup of happiness seemed within their grasp.
Occasionally such events are the result of the
obstinacy or pride of one or the other; there
are also many other causes; but more often
perhaps it is on account of a distinctive dif-
ference in the position in society or in the
religious views. It is always better and safer
so far as possible to associate with those who
are of the same faith; it is true that in many
instances differences may spring up after
marriage, and that may be unavoidable, but
true happiness cannot exist where vital prin-
ciples are in question and opposing views en-
tertained. Many young people have separated
as these two did and looking at the matter,
seriously have taken up the duties of life, and
with the devotion that characterizes a genuine
faith, have been all the nobler because of the
self-sacrifice.


[Column 1]
	﻿In some instances we speak of these things
as fate and also as a dispensation of Providence,
but in this case as in some others of which
we have known the woman never forgot
in after years the sacrifice she made in
giving up this young lover of hers, who had
set her heart all aflame; but she could not
and would not deceive herself into the belief
that man’s love could compensate for that joy
she felt in her new found love of truth—and tho’
it was a hard struggle yet she conquered—that
her cousin’s intercession made it all the
harder for her, it is scarcely necessary to say.
Hettie’s badinage about young Mr. W. the
one just converted weighed nothing with
Lucy, her religion was first, and she avowed
her indifference to marriage in the strongest
terms. It was true however that the young
man referred to, was looked upon even by
the newly converted “Mormon” girls in the
village as a most desirable and agreeable com-
panion, and they liked to hear him in his elo-
quent though humble manner bear his testi-
mony, to the Gospel he had embraced.
	It was true that Mrs. Hathaway had sent
for Hepsie and also her married daughter Mrs.
Severance to come home and hear the Elders
preach. So sure was she that they would be
impressed, thst she wrote in the most positive
way;  and as they knew nothing of the
doctrines, or principles, they were almost as
eager to hear, as Mrs. H. was to have them.
They made the journey in their own carriage
instead of the stage, and only arrived in time
to get a warm supper, (for the weather was
cold) and attend the evening meeting which
was held in the district schoolhouse.
	Hepsie was overjoyed to be at home for a
short time, and on meeting her mother
noticed immediately the change in her appear-
ance, and childlike exclaimed, “O, mother
how beautiful your eyes are to night, how
they sparkle; and you seem ever so much
younger, what has happened.
	“My dear little girl this is what has happened
I have found the true Gospel, that the Savior and
his Apostles taught, and it has given me great
joy, and I have been baptized for the remission
of my sins, and have had hands laid upon my
head for the reception of the Holy Ghost and I
feel so happy, and I want you and Hannah, and
all my children and friends, to feel as I do
and rejoice with me. To night you will hear
the Elders preach from the Bible and not
spiritualize its sayings as the aectarian world
do, and their Priests and ministers,”
	“But” said Mrs. Severance “I have heard
that the “Mormons” have another Bible, and
that they believe its teachings as implicitly as
we do the Sacred Scriptures, and that it is a
golden bible, and that Joseph Smith pre-
tended to dig it up out of a hill in the State of
New York, and to translate it himself, tho’ he
was only an ignorant, uncultivated and un-
couth young man. He pretends God spoke to
Him and that He heard his voice.”
	“Well that is all true, it is not a pretense;
but you shall hear for yourself this very night,
and you will be convinced by the testimony
of truth, as I have been, that this new religion
is not a delusion, but the Everlasting Gospel;
and that the Elders who proclaim it are not
deceivers; but every man and every woman is
at liberty to judge of the truths proclaimed
whether they be of man, or from God.
	At this point Mrs. Severance spoke “mother
you know how sure you were years ago, that
you had experienced a real change of heart;
and your conversion was looked upon by our
minister as quite an event because of your pro-
nounced opinions upon all religious subjects,
and especially upon the old prophets, I was
only a girl then, about as old as Hepsie per-
haps, but I remember very well hearing good
old M. Ridelle, who used to change pulpits
with Mr.Spooner say, to Mrs. Spooner one night

[Column 2]
“Mrs. Hathaway a Congregationalist you sur-
prise me!” Mrs. Hathaway replied very quietly
that she had always felt sure that the
Scriptures admitted of no private interpreta-
tion, and now she had other authority than
her own assertion.
	“What other authority?’' inquired Mrs. S.
“the authority of the Elders who have been
sent out to preach repentance and baptism, and
other points of doctrine. But I want you to
hear for yourselves.”
	Hepsie was half-bewildered, she was weary
with the journey and annoyed with Mrs. S.
whom she thought disrespectful to her mother,
and she wanted to remain at home, her but
mother would not consent to it, and so they
all went on that memorable evening and heard
the Elders preach. This was almost six weeks
after the first baptisms had been performed and
there was considerable excitement over the
affair in this quiet old town. Uncle Rufus
still continued to befriend the Elders and was
very hospitable in entertaining them, but he
showed no signs of being converted. Uncle
Rufus' was quite a character in his way and
was never afraid to speak his mind either
upon religion, or politics; his wife was very
pious quite the opposite, and as a natural con-
sequence they were not one; in fact all the
villagers knew that Aunt Lydia “kept herself
to herself,” that is to say she occupied her own
apartments and Uncle Rufus did as he pleased
with the rest of the house; but when it come
to Mormon Elders the good wife objected,
though naturally enough Rufus carried the
day and as the house was a spacious one she
neither heard or saw them; as she had em-
phatically declared that she “could not endure
the sight of men, who went about sponging off
hard-working people, it was against her prin-
ciples, she was brought up to work for her
living.”
	But we must go back to the “Mormon”
meeting, it opened with the hymn.
		“Glorious things of thee are spoken
		Zion city of our God!
		He whose word cannot be broken,
		Chose thee for His own abode.”
	Hepsie was delighted with the singing it was
so lively she thought, and so different from
that she had been accustomed to hear in the
Churches, for in those days in the old towns in
New England, the tunes were rather common-
place and the choir girls (and Hepsie was one
of them) often wearied of the monotonous old
Psalm tunes with their long metres, and the
reader must remember that at that period the
usual method of “pitching a tune,” was with
“a tuning fork.'
	After the singing prayer was offered, and
that too was entirely different from the prayers
Hepsie had heard either in the Churches or at
the parsonage of the Rev. Erasmus Grovsenor.
The preaching was upon the first principles of
the Gospel, and references were made to the
New Testament almost exclusively, Hepsie was
not so attentive as she ought to have been, she
was excited, and nervous, and it was so new
and strange; she watched the countenances of
the speakers, and the effect of the discourse
upon her mother who seemed so intensely
exercised that it was apparent to all with
whom she associated.
	After the meeting closed the people crowded
around making inquiries and some applying
for baptism and Mrs. H. was greatly disap-
pointed when Mr. S. and wife both protested
that they were not in the least impressed and
did not intend to spend their time to hear such
foolishness; in vain Mrs. H. entreated them to
stay and talk to the Elders, or even listen to her;
no amount of persuasion would induce him
ever to sit and hear such talk again, said Mr.
S. and what he said his dutiful wife Hannah
acquiesced in. Mrs. H. saw it was useless to

[Column 3]
persuade though she could not help manifesting
her disappointment, but she thought then for
hope was buoyant in her breast, that in time
they would be convinced that she was right.
She had been such a wise mother and her
children looked up to her with great rever-
ence, indeed she had actually supplied the
father’s place so far as that is possible. “My
boys will believe as I do I am sure they will;”
she said with a great degree of confidence,
after they had returned from the meeting,
and were talking with each other around the
fire.
	The room where they were seated was long
and low—with oak-paneling and very little
that was bright in it, except as the fitful blaze
of the pine-knots in the wide fire place re-
flected on the walls and old-fashioned furniture.
There were tall brass andirons and they shone
brightly and the hearthstone was a brilliant
red, there was no carpet, a painted floor and
rugs laid down for warmth, as it was winter-
time;— Hepsie glanced around as if she
expected to see a change in the room,
but she only observed the shadows and glim-
mers from the fire-light and remarked to her
mother, “how weird everything looks in this
room, or is it because I have just come home,
and it is strange after being away so long.”
	“It is only your childish fancy; we thought
you would like the fire of pine knots and so
we piled it up high to-night to gratify you and
would not light either lamps or candles, know-
ing your love of shadows.”
	The great clock that stood in the corner
struck the midnight hour before Hepsie had
retired, or would confess to weariness so much
did she enjoy the play of the fire light and
the pictures she saw in the burning coals.
Her mother too was a fair picture to gaze upon
for Hepsie was beginning to comprehend true
womanliness. She remembered years after the
very dress she wore and how she admired for
almost the first time in her life,her magnificent
figure and bearing. She began to see now how
it was that Mrs. Hathaway had been disliked
by her husband’s family; it was envy; she
thought that night she had never looked upon
her like before. Her forehead was high and
her wavy hair clustered round it gracefully,
her mouth was perfect, in shape and outline,
lips cherry, and her eyes were heaven’s own
blue; around her neck which was well propor-
tioned she wore a string of amber beads, and
over her shoulders a heavily embroidered
crape shawl; her dress was a soft grey pongee
and as Hepsie looked intently into her mother’s
wonderfully expressive eyes, she thought, as
she many times thought afterwards. “Would
I could paint her portrait, and write her life
history.”
	Such women were those who knew the sound
of the Gospel when it was first preached in
their hearing: they needed no testimony be-
yond their own conscience and convictions, but
time would fail to tell the lives of women like
this one, their record is laid up in the archives
of the angels, and the world knows them not.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Mary Hallock Foote, in her pictures of the
Far West in the Century, says the life of the
men may be large and dramatic, even in fail-
ure; but the life of women here, as everywhere,
is made up of very small matters,—a badly-
cooked dinner, a horrible wall paper, a wind
that tears the nerves, a child with something
the matter with it which the doctor “doesn’t
understand,” an acquaintance that is just near
enough not to be a friend; it is the little shocks
for which one is never prepared, the little dis-
appointments and insecurities and failures and
postponements, the want of completeness and
perfection in anything that harrows a woman’s
soul and makes her forget too often that she
has a soul.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CHILDLESS HOMES.

God pity the homes where no children’s feet
Run in on the carpet with mud from the street;
For their merry laugh and their love intense,
For faults like this more than recompense.

God pity the homes the whole world ’round,
In which no children bless’d are found;
For be it the home of the poor or great,
A home without children is desolate. 

God pity the man, who with all life’s care,
Has no roguish baby to pull his hair,
As home he returns at eventide,
And sits him down by his own fireside.

God pity the woman whose snowy neck
No children’s encircling arms bedeck;
For no jewels of gold, or rubies rare,
In beauty and richness with these compare.

God pity the woman upon whose breast
No child was e’er sung to its evening’s rest;
For no song e’er tossed on the peaceful air
With a mother’s lullaby can compare.

God pity the homes, the whole world ’round,
Wherein no children sweet are fonnd;
For be it the home of the poor or great,
A home without children is desolate.
							— Lynn Item.
'


SOME DAY OF DAYS.

Some day, some day of days, treading the street,
		With idle, heedless pace, 
		Unlooking for such grace,
		I shall behold your face!
Some day, some day of days, thus may me meet.

Perchance the sun may shine from skies of May,
		Or winter’s icy chill
		Touch lightly vale and hill;
		What matter I shall thrill
Through every vein with summer on that day.

Once more life’s perfect youth will all come back,
		And for a moment there
		I shall stand fresh and fair
		And drop the garment, care;
Once more my perfect youth shall nothing lack.

I shut my eyes now, thinking how ’twill be,
		How, face to face, each soul
		Will slip its long control,
		Forget the dismal dole
Of dreary fate’s dark, separating sea.

And glance to glance, and hand to hand in greeting.
		The past with all its fears,
		Its silence and its tears,
		Its lonely yearning years,
Shall vanish in the moment of that meeting.
				—ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS.


I OFTEN WONDER WHY 'TIS SO

	Some find work where some find rest,
		And so the weary world goes on;
	I sometimes wonder which is best;
		The answer comes when life is gone.

	Some eyes sleep when some eyes wake,
		And so the dreary night-hours go;
	Some hearts beat when some hearts break;
		I often wonder why 'tis so.

	Some wills faint where some wills fight,
		Some love the tent, and some the field,
	I often wonder who are right—
		The ones who strive, or those who yield?

	Some hands fold where other hands
		Are lifted bravely in the strife;
	And so thro' ages and thro' lands
		Move on the two extremes of life.

	Some feet halt when some feet tread,
		In tireless march, a thorny way;
	Some struggle on where some have fled;
		Some seek when others shun the fray.


Some swords rust where others clash,
	Some fall back where some move on,
Some flags furl where others flash
	Until the battle has been won.

Some sleep on while others keep
	The vigils of the true and brave:
They will not rest till roses creep
	Around their name above a grave.
								A. J. R.


[Column 1]
	LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
BY M. J. TANNER.
			[Continued.]
	Trout Lake, N.Y. Wednesday, June 17, 1885.
Aurilla and I go strawberrying this morning.
One of the hired men is going up in the woods
with the truck, (the running gears of the
wagon coupled long for hauling logs,) and we
ride with him as far as Caleb's home. Caleb
lives on the farm where my husband's grand-
mother used to live. The place looks dilapi-
dated and it is very hilly and rocky all around.
We go in the house awhile and call on his wife.
They have some fine looking children but his
wife looks over-worked and careworn.  Her
cheek has lost its rose, and her form its round-
ness, and the only prospect I see before her to
bring encouragement is in her children.  She
strives as many a noble woman has striven,
through poverty and toil, to raise them the
best her circumstances will admit.  She is
cheerful, and gives us a pleasant welcome.  We
go over to the "foller," a piece of land where
the trees have been cut and the stumps not yet
cleared out.  It is used for meadow but it
would be impossible to use machinery to cut
the hay on account of the rocks, hills and
stumps.  I have been quite anticipating my
strawberry trip. They tell me that the wild
strawberries are much finer flavored than the
cultivated ones, and the thought of searching
among the grass and flowers for the luscious
fruit carries me back to my childhood days
once more.  After searching awhile we find a
few small berries not much larger than a good
sized pea.  I pass them by with disdain, but
finally Aurilla says she thinks we will not find
any better ones and we commence picking, the
largest of course always finding the way to my
mouth.  The sun is very hot, but a cool breeze
finds us now and then.  Aurilla and I get
separated. Sometimes I look for her and find
the object of my scrutiny but a big black
stump; for the "foller" has been burnt over to
get rid of the brush and debris of the fallen
trees; and sometimes when I think I see a
stump in the distance it moves and I know it
is her. *	    *
	We spend the afternoon with Caleb and his
family and walk home, about a mile.  The road
is through the woods which are filled with
blossoms, and the air is sweet with their per-
fume.  Blackberries, raspberries, and thimble-
berries are putting forth their blossoms with
promise of an abundant harvest.	*	*	
	Aurilla makes a strawberry-shortcake for
supper and it certainly is delicious.  After
supper we go for a row on the lake, Bertha
and Eppie and I, Bertha is Becky Ann's thir-
teen year old daughter an over-grown girl with
bright black eyes and a promise of something
better than life at present affords for her.
Eppie a boy of about eighteen is one of David's
hired hands.  He has a fine intelligent face,
and as we float out on the glossy water they
sing together, and as their voices mingle in the
soft twilight, I weave a little idyl for their 
future.  We go to the fartherest end of the lake
which is about two miles, around twin islands,
and back by echo point, where they send their
voices out in shouts and laughter, to be taken
up and repeated again and again.  The bank
of the lake opposite Mr. Putney's is lined with
[Column 2]
woods and is pointed out to me as lovely picnic
grounds.  I can readily believe it, and think I
would like to go over there some day.  We
gather a few yellow water-lilies, the white ones
are not in bloom yet.  As we land on the bank 
we promise ourselves another row.
	Thursday, June 18.  Caleb gets a horse and
buggy, and takes me out to see the country.
We visit the cemetery and walk about
among the graves of a bygone generation.  The
roses are in bloom and earth looks very
pleasant, just as it looked to them, perhaps fifty
or a hundred years ago.  I see the names of
many people that I have heard mother Tanner
talk about, and write them down in my journal.
Here lies Father Tanner’s wife who died before
mother married him, and I write down the
epitaph from her tomb stone.  After leaving
the cemetery we drive along the road past
lovely cottages and pleasant farmhouses, with
beautiful waters of Lake George ever in view,
dotted here and there with green islands; three
hundred and sixty-five, they tell me, just cor-
responding with the days of the year.  We stop
at Artemus Tanner's, a cousin of my husband,
where Caleb introduces me as his cousin's wife
from Utah.  Artemus has a nice family con-
sisting of his wife, two daughters and a grand-
daughter. They invite me to stay and Caleb
leaves me here where I spend a pleasant even-
ing.
	Friday June, 19.  Weather pleasant, cool in
the morning but quite warm in the afternoon.
It looks like some of our canyon country.
Large mountains in the distance and hills and
trees all around.  After tea Mrs. Tanner goes
with me for a walk on the hill. The black
berries are not ripe yet and she fears they will
be small on account of the dry weather, they
have not as much rain as usual this summer.
We have a lovely view of the Lake and sur-
rounding country.  We pick a few juniper
berries for it grows all over the hill and I am
told is a great nuisance in this part of the
country.  It is a low sprangly bush and looks
some like our dwarf cedar.  We gather winter-
green which grows here in profusion.
	Bolton, Saturday, June 20. * *   Artemus
went to Glen's Falls yesterday but is at home
today, and has promised to give me some items
of family history.  Mrs. T. is a pleasant in-
telligent woman and we are having a nice
visit.  I have been writing home, and learning 
some knitting patterns, Mrs. T. has a knit quilt 
which she put in the fair. * *
	Sunday, June 21. Mrs. T. who is a Baptist 
went to church and Artemus sat down to give
me the long promised family history or rather
such records as he had of it, which I carefully 
note down for further use.  After dinner we
go for a ride and call on Mr. Perkins a cousin
of the family, Mr. Perkins is not in but Mrs.
Fuller, the lady of the house, who is a cousin,
entertains us, and I get a few geneologies from
her.  Mrs. Tanner, Mrs. Fuller and I go down
to the lake for a walk.  We have a fine view,
and I try to find a few pebbles or shells to
carry home, but find little worth notice.  After
supper Mr. T. takes me to Mr. Putney's where
they all welcome me warmly.


THE MAYFLOWER AT PLYMOTH.

	There has been completed recently at the
capital a painting which is attracting much
attention, not only for the artistic features of
the work but also for the historic interest
attached. The painting is the work of
Harrison Eastman, of Washington. It repre-
sents the arrival of the Mayflower at Plymoth
Rock. The picture was painted for Mrs. Le-
land Stanford, wife of Senator Stanford, of
California, and is the result of long and la
borious research on the part of the artist. It
is said that the price paid for the work is
$25,000.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - 	Editor.	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50, per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address, all business communications to
			     PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH. 
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,      -              -         DECEMBER 1, 1889.


MORMON DOCTRINE AND THE COURT.

	The Court in session in this City has for the
past two or three weeks given great attention to
the subject of qualifications for citizenship; and
with this one simple fact, they have brought in
almost every principle of the Church, and one
would think instead of a case of naturalization
only,that the whole Church was on trial before His
Honor Judge Anderson. Books and Journals'
daily papers, etc., were ransacked to prove the
falsity of the position and attitude of this humble
people. It would be ridiculous and laughable if
it were not so serious, to see and hear the
harangues and disputations going on during the
proceedings of the case. Surely the Judges,
lawyers and marshals with their clerks will soon
attain a great degree of perfection in “Mormon’,
doctrine, if they will only turn it to good account;
they may be glad at some future time to accept
some of the principles they so strongly condemn.
	It seems almost impossible that men of intelli-
gence and ability should show so much an-
tagonism to a peaceful, industrious and unassum-
ing people.
	How it can be possible to go to such extremes
and with such venom as has been manifested by
the opposition, one who is in his sober senses can
scarcely comprehend. To cap the climax send
a man up for contempt because he rufuses to
answer a question that has “nothing to do with the
case,” whatever,and treat him as a criminal,seems
this incompatible with any precedent heretofore
established even against “Mormons.” It was
plain enough to every one of ordinary intelligence
that it was intended to make an example of
Elder Penrose, and besides, it was putting him
where he could not give his views through the
most popular medium, that of the press. To im-
prison a man for not answering an irrelevant ques-
tion upon a matter for which he had already re-
ceived the pardon of His Excellency the Presi-
dent, of the United States will scarcely be con-
sidered a wise thing to do even by the honorable
men,who belong to the opposing party.
	When the case closed Elder Penrose was re-
leased by the order of Judge Anderson notwith-
standing there were those so full of hatred and
spite they would have stretched a point or two or
more to have kept him longer in durance vile.
	During this case of rights of citizenship the
witnesses have been catechized as though they
were all hereties, and were on trial for their life.
No one can help seeing, if they read all the evi-
dence and speeches etc. but that “Mormonism”
can well afford to be put on trial on its merits.
	“There are more in things heaven and earth than
are dreamt of in our philosophy.”  So with
Mormonism it contains so much: they have not
yet compassed the earth, and the heavens they
fortunately cannot.


[Column 1]
		      SEVENTY-ONE.
	On Wednesday evening Novenber, 20th, a
select party of friends of Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
met by invitation at the residence of her daughter
Mrs. Clara E. James, to offer their congraulations
and celebrate with appropriate festivities the
birthday anniversary of this honored lady.
	The weather being unfavorable many were
hindered from coming, but there was a goodly
company assembled in Mrs. James handsome
parlors, and Mrs. Horne’s daughters (there were
four of them present) know how to entertain socially
so as to make every one feel at ease.
	President Wilford Woodruff and President Geo.
Q. Cannon were present, Bishop Geo. H. Taylor,
David James Esq., and other gentlemen besides
a large number of ladies. Most of the evening
was devoted to social conversation, but about nine
or half past nine, the attention of the guests was
called and Mrs. Lula Greene Richards read an
original poem, which we give below.

		SEVENTEEN AND SEVENTY-ONE.

	This morning, ere ’twas light,
	A vision, fair and bright,
	Pass'd happily before my restful mind;
	It was of you, my sister, true and kind.

	I saw your life serene,
	When you were Seventeen;
	Just like an opening floweret, pure and white;
	No spot nor blemish mar’d the grateful sight.

	As flowers' first fragrance rise
	To him, who formed the skies,   
	So was your maiden loyalty expressed,
	To that great God, of all friends dearest, best.

	Life’s battle thus begun,
	Was, from the first half won;
	And I’ll not use the precious time to-night,	
	To show your brave defence of Truth and Right.

	No bloom, on bush or tree,
	More perfectly we see,
	Developing to fruits of lasting worth,
	Than marks your noble mission on this earth.

	More, I need not rehearse,
	The numbers we’ll reverse,
	And find you still, in beauteous life serene,
	Now Seventy-one, yet fair as Seventeen.
	With all good wishes for our Evening Queen.

	After the reading, Pres. Cannon in a few well
chosen words expressed his pleasure in being
present to celebrate the natal day of one whom he
so much esteemed, and referred to his long and
intimate acquaintance with Brother and Sister
Horne, congratulated Sister Horne on attaining
such length of days and still retaining her health
and usefulness, made general remarks upon other
matters, and concluded with asking God to bless
Brother and Sister Horne and their family.
	Pres. Woodruff spoke for some minutes in a
similar strain, referring, however, more particu-
larly to the days that were past, the associations
in earlier times with Joseph the Prophet, and the
Apostles who were now gone behind the veil. He
spoke with great fervor and earnestness, and ex-
pressed many good wishes for all present and im-
plicit faith in the future glory of Zion.
	Sister Presendia L. Kimball, who is now in her
80th year, also expressed her pleasure in being
associated with the friends with whom she de-
lighted to mingle, congratulated Sister Horne,
and asked the blessing of heaven upon all those
assembled.
	Delicious refreshments with ice cream, fruits
and sweetmeats were served to the guests and the
conversation became general. It was a pleasant
evening profitably spent, and the guests retired
from the house with every expression of good will
and prayers for future happiness here and here-
after. The writer adds her congratulations and
friendly greetings and trusts to see Mrs. Horne

[Column 2]
after another decade, as active and useful as she
is to-day.


AN EASTERN TRIP.

	Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, Pres. of the Y. L. M. I.
A. and her daughter Miss Mae Taylor, left this
city September 3, to visit friends and relatives in
the East. The ladies went by way of Denver,
Kansas City, Memphis and Chattanouga, the
land of cotton and sugar cane, taking note of all
the beauties of the route and enjoying the rich
scenery, landing in Norfolk Va., at the St. James
Hotel, where they expected to take steamer for
New York. Norfolk is an old and celebrated
town and consequently possesses many historic
attractions for travelers.
	Mrs. Taylor and her daughter were interested
in the town and went to several of the historic
localities. One of the principal features to be
admired was St. Paul’s Church.  It was standing
in the time of the Revolution, and in the South
East corner under the eaves, the bullet is still re-
maining that was fired into it at that time; the
windows are “memorial,” of lovely stained
ground glass. The Church is built in the form of
a cross and in the upperend of the cross is an
ancient pipe organ, which must have been very
elegant, winding stairs on the outside of the
Church lead up to it. The building has four gal-
leries, one for the organ, and one at the foot of
the cross where the singers sit, and one in each
arm of the cross probably for seating the congre-
gation. It was covered with ivy outside every-
where except the windows and where memorial
stones were set in with inscriptions for the dead.
	One of the curiosities to be seen was the John
Hancock chair, donated by a member of the Han-
cock family and on the arm of it was a silverplate
relating the circumstance of its being the chair in
which the celebrated man John Hancock sat
when he signed the Declaration of Independence.
It is of the old style straight backed and leather
bottomed. The Church is kept in good repair
nd services still held in it regularly. Outside
were the most beautiful flowers one a specimen of
crepe myrtle, Mrs.Taylor and daughter describe
it as one of the most delicate and lovely things
they ever saw.
	When leaving the City they drove to the Navy
Yard which was very interesting; while there it
commenced raining, from there they drove to the
Old Dominion dock also a place of interest, and
took the steamer Roanoke for New York.
	The usual time for the ocean trip is from 22 to
26 hours, but such was the gale that it took 6o
minute—the gale blowing at the rate of 70 miles an
hour; the shutters were closed and hatchway
nailed down; the storm was the most severe that
had swept that coast since 1846. The ladies suf-
fered from sea-sickness very much, all on board
were sick even the colored employees accustomed
to these voyages were ill. Mrs. Taylor and
daughter however in the midst of this terrific
storm relied with implicit, faith upon the promises
made them previous to their departure that they
should go and return in safety.
	On arriving in New York after this unpleasant
voyage, they went over the Hoboken Ferry to
Jersey where they found their friends who had
been several times to the station to meet them.
	While in New York the ladies visited Centra
Park which they greatly admired especially the
Metropolitan, museum and to Miss Taylor all the
places were new, Old Trinity Church, Stock Ex-
change, Greenwood Cemetery and the Equitable
Building, where great pains was taken to show
them when they were informed they were from
Utah; the vaults, the safes, the private rooms,
and explained the signals etc. rent for these safes
run from $15 and 20, to 400 per month, the whole
building inside is finished in marble and iron, with


brass railings nine feet high, and is very elegant
throughout.
	Mrs. Taylor visited relatives in Bloomfield,
Mt. Claire, Newark N. J. and also the house where
her husband’s mother was born. In Central New
York, Rochester Cincinnatus and other places,
she also visited Palmyra where the hill Cumorah
is situated and though there was nothing in par-
ticular to mark the sacred place gathered some of
the native wild-flowers and pressed them as a re-
membrance. They also visited Niagara Falls and
had a most delightful day in viewing this magnifi-
cent natural curosity. Mrs. Taylor and daughter
returned home in excellent health and spirits hav-
ing richly enjoyed the journey including of course
the storm on the ocean.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	In the “In Memoriam" of Mrs. George Dun-
ford published in our last issue, it was stated that
she came to the valley in 1868, it should have been
1867.
	The Gilmore chorus of four hundred under the
tutelage of Br. E. Stephens have formed an or-
ganization for training in music and will no doubt
accomplish a good work and be prepared for giv-
ing concerts and Oratorio, singing, etc. We
would rejoice to see Salt Lake City make rapid
progress in the development of music which is
undoubtedly, we think, the most refining and soul-
stirring of all arts, or professions.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of the
Salt Lake Stake will be held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Hall in this City on Thursday Decem-
ber 19th meetings commencing at 10, a. m. and
2, p. m. as usual. A representation from each
branch of the Relief Society is earnestly desired,
and it is sincerely hoped there will be a large
attendance of the members, as this is a time when
union and a faithful discharge of duty on the
part of each individual member seems impera-
tive. Bishops and other brethren, are most
cordially invited to attend the Conference as
also all interested in this benevolent organi-
zation.


[Column 1]﻿
		THORNS AND ROSES.
	Nature teaches that we cannot find a calm un-
troubled stream of light and life.
	Winter comes with icy sceptre held on high
and when his breath is felt the world’s wild pulses
cease to beat and all her gladsome songs are
hushed; but Summer follows with her hand of
warmth and loosens all his frigid chains.
	Night comes, and wraps his sombre mantle
round the earth—mantles, dark, and cold, and
chill but day light drives night shades away.
	The storm-king often beats down sorrow and
dismay, but sunshine always follows rain.
	Through all, the biting cold, the genial warmth,
the dark and light, the storm and calm, we tread
life’s hill-side path, yet never tread that path
alone. There are many pilgrims ever near, and
our  walks must temper theirs for good or ill.
Our tracks we leave and round them thorns or
roses fall—a portion from the harvest of our lives.
This is the largess we are bound to give to mother-
earth, to fellow-man.
	We meet a stranger sad and wan, we pass him
on our way; and does the look we give bring
smiles upon the troubled face, or does the frown
but darker grow? Did we drop roses in his path,or
was it but a thorn?
	A friend is near, one delicate and frail; we love
that friend, but watching, see her step aside.
Wrong thoughts she tells to us, and yet we do not
chide, but let it pass lest we should wound her
tender, loving heart, or lose the kind regard we
prize, Is that the strongest proof of friendship’s
[Column 2]
worth, and have we warm roses for her head, or
for that dear one wreaths of thorns?
	Another friend now comes to us in noble manly
pride. Temptation lures him, he loves the wine-
cup’s ruddy glow, but friends can trust such
strength as his; a fair hand takes the cup he loves
and holds it to his lips. ‘Tis given with a smile
but does it hold sweet flowers for the garlands of
his life and they hide no stinging thorns?
	Love comes to woo: we see him there and give
kind welcome by some pretty act. We watch the
pleadings of his face, and hear his ardent voice;
caress the true and trusting heart; accept the
treasures it doth bring, then cast them all away.
	What cruel work our hands have done—heart
strings are rent apart; wounds are bleeding where
we thrust the cruel thorns; and would we hide
the wrong we’ve done, hide that breaking heart
beneath white roses,they are stained, their beauty
turns to blight.
	At “home sweet home,” that dearest spot on
earth, is mother’s gentle, precious form. Her face
is ever near, and have we looked to see if time
were tracing there the deep hard lines of care, or
if the smiles of peace were wreathing halo's soft,
serene and fairer than the flesh of youth?
	Whence came the hard lines on that loving face?
Have our lives but twined round her’s a network
all of thorns? Whence came the peace the
reverential light? Oh! it rejects the love that
roses breathe, the rich perfume of garlands fair
that we hsve woven round that mother’s life.
	And father, must he toil and spend his strength
to bring the wealth that we would have? and is it
more, much more than we would need if we could
feel the achings of his careworn mind? Do soft
hands sometimes touch his throbbing brow and
wipe the sweats away! Are kisses printed there
among the furrowed lines? Is he entwined with
love’s sweet gifts? Do we scatter thorns,or roses
for his tired blistered feet to tread upon?
	Brothers, sisters God has given us, the good
the beautiful and true. 'Tis they who share the
joys the cares, triumphs and failures which are
ours. Sometimes those loved are called to
heaven’s bright realms. We stand beside the dead
to say a long good-night, a last farewell. In fond
tones now we breathe to them the fairest words
that tongue hath ever told—I love you, oh! I love
you, dear—and are we heard? Can dead ears
hear, cold lips feel affection's kiss, the marble
brow and stiffened hand our warm caress?
	Why gather roses for them now when we have
left that task so long undone?
	Why pluck rough thorns from off the grave
where silent ashes sleep?—the living loved! O
let us give them now the treasures of our hearts
before it is too late!
	Let flowers be the gifts we bring for strangers
and for friends. Flowers for the ones beloved while
they are here to know the worth and beauty of the
treasures that we give.
	And let us never scatter cruel, poisoned thorns
where one can feel their sting.
	In the school-room here where angels come to
mark the records, not of words and acts alone, but
of the silent heart thoughts too, is there a place
more mete than this wherein to learn these lessons
for the soul?
	We are weaving now, a chaplet fair for teachers
and for friends—Schoolmates, whose hands will
place the roses there, and whose the cruel thorns!
								ARETTA.	
	Written for an exercise in General Theology,
L. D. S. College, Salt Lake City, Nov. 15, 1889.


[column 1]
AN ADDRESS.
BY MRS. JULIA CRUSE HOWE.

	In addressing the members of Mutual Improve-
ment Associations of this Ward this evening, I
[column 2]
desire to say something that may cause you to
more fully realize your privileges and blessings;
and the consequent responsibilities that rest upon
you as intelligent sons and daughters of God.
	These Associations were organized by inspira-
tion, that you my young brethren may qualify
yourselves for Missionaries—and for other respon-
sible duties pertaining to building up the Church
and Kingdom of God, and establishing righteous-
ness upon the earth. And the mission of woman
is of equal importance and their duties as varied
as that of the brethren. Our exaltation hereafter
will be in proportion to our faithfulness and dili-
gence in this probation. 
	It is our privilege to stand as saviors upon
Mount Zion. And I realize that there is a field
open in this direction, in our own midst. And it
is your privilege and duty to use your influence in
stemming the tide of infidelity that is creeping in
amongst us. This may seem a harsh expression,
but I will admit, there are many young gentleman
and ladies who ignore the necessity of these As-
sociations—and who take pleasure in the vanities
and customs of the Gentile world, and love their
society. And though innocent of any intentional
wrong—yet they stand on dangerous ground.
	There is a sort of science which is termed
"Mind Cure;" faith in which is gaining ground
among us. There is also spiritual, or religious
science, an attractive name to catch the unwary.
	And at our fourteenth Ward meeting a few
weeks ago, a sister was telling of some young
people of her acquaintance being infatuated with
an instrument called the Planchette. Some present
may not know what this instrument is like, and I
cannot describe it for I never saw one, but twenty
years ago, or more, when spiritual rappings were
the craze, I was visiting a family of a prominent
member of the church, and they regretted very
much that their Planchette was loaned out, and told
of its wonderful operations. For instance, a
young lady present, whose father, by the bye, at
the time of his death was one of the three first
presidents of the church, enquired through this
instrument the name of the man she would marry.
The instrument wrote the name, and wonderful
to relate in the same peculiar handwriting as the
gentleman's own autograph.
	She subsequently married this man, and they
are both apostates. And soon after this the
family previously referred to, apostatized, and
professsed to have revelation from God, and they
became infidels to the Gospel revealed through
the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	This is only one of many instances, that might
be related, to show the evil result of tampering
with things that are in opposition to the teachings
of the Priesthood, and which conflict with the
principles of the Gospel.
	John the beloved disciple of Jesus, in one of
his Epistles said: "Beloved, believe not every
spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God;
because many false prophets are gone out into the
world, and this was the test in that day. Every
spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is
come in the flesh, is not of God. The test to-day
is—those who deny that Joseph Smith conversed
with God the Father and His son Jesus Christ—
and that the Priesthood was restored through him
with all its gifts and blessings, the gifts of healing,
prophecy, speaking in tongues, interpretation of
tongues, etc., is not of God.
	I can testify that these blessings are in the
Church at the present time, though not to the ex-
tent it is our privilege to enjoy them, and this be-
cause of our lack of faith. Owing to our indul-
gence in vanity and folly and lack of love towards
one another. 
	Paul in his Epistle to the Thessalonians refer-
ring to this time, and those people who recieve
not the truth but reject it. said: "That for this
cause God shall send them strong delusions, that


they should believe a lie, that they all might be
damned who believed not the truth."
	Satan was permitted to exercise his power in
the days of Moses. When Moses and Aaron pre-
sented themselves before King Pharaoh to plead
in behalf of the children of Israel, that they may
go and offer sacrifice to their God, to prove the 
power and Omnipotence of that God, Aaron did
as Moses commanded, and threw down his rod
and it became a serpent. Pharaoh called his wise
men and the Magicians and they did the same. 
But the sequel goes to prove that Aaron's ser-
pent swallowed up the serpents of the Magicians.
	And so it will be ere long, when the Lord has
proven His people, and they are sufficiently
humble He will manifest His power through His
servants who hold the Priesthood, in the deliver-
ance of His people, and the confounding of their
enemies. And the miracles to be wrought will
eclipse any performed in former dispensations. 
	For Zion will arise and shine, and the glory of
her God will rest upon her, and all her inhabitants
will be righteous.
	And it will be those stalwart sons and fair
daughters of Zion, who are now improving their
golden opportunities, and striving to keep all the
commandments of God, searching for knowledge
through the proper channel, and whose aspira-
tions are heavenward, that will be chosen to bring 
to pass this heavenly state of things.
	But they cannot attain unto this, only by sacri-
fice. If we expect to be joint-heirs with Christ,
we must be willing to do the will of God in all
things. And Christ has promised that if we will 
take His yoke upon us and learn of Him, His yoke
will be easy and His burden light. 
	If you wish to know in regard to your future
my young brethren and sisters, I would advise
you to get your Patriarchal blessing; and in all
probability you will find that you are of the blood
of Ephraim and the royal seed of Joseph. And 
that should stimulate you to act nobly and worthy
of your honorable progenitors.
	And that you may be enabled to over come
every temptation of the enemy, and attain to the
blessings and reward your parentage and privi-
leges entitle you to, is my earnest desire in the
name of Jesus, Amen.
	Read at the Young People's Conjoint Meeting, 
17, Ward.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	(The ladies semi-monthly meeting was held in
the 14th, ward Assembly rooms on Saturday,
Nov. 9, 1889, Pres. M. Isabella Horne pre-
siding. In the stand were Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, Pres. of the Relief Society and Mrs.
Elmina S. Taylor, Pres. of the Young Ladies
Associations and Mrs. E. B. Wells, Editor of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.)
	The meeting opened with singing.
	     "When the voice of friendship's heard," etc,
	Prayer was offered by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox,
singing.
	     “Do what is right let the consequence follow,”
	Pres. Horne made some opening remarks
spoke of having been in the Logan Temple
recently, and the influence she enjoyed also
that she attended the Relief Society Conference
of Cache Stake at Logan. “We sisters do
not want to be among the number of those
spoken of by the prophet, when he uttered
the words, “Wo unto the women who are at
ease in Zion,” “we are constantly taught that
we should be united and earnest in living our
religion;” she then referred to the Savior’s
words, when upon the earth, and the
prophecies uttered, and explained their appli-
cation to the day in which we live, said “let
us not be foolish virgins but wise and diligent,”
and gave the meeting into the hands of the
sisters.
[Column 2]
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, spoke upon the condition
of the people politically, and urged the sisters
to use their utmost endeavors to assist the
People’s Party in every possible way; although
they were deprived of the ballot, they had the
privilege of becoming members of the People’s
Party clubs, and of attending the meetings and
getting an understanding of all matters per-
taining to the issues now pending, and by
doing this would be able to exert a powerful
influence in the right direction with fathers,
husbands, brothers and sons, and give expres-
sion to the loyalty and patriotism that burned
as brightly in the hearts of women, as in those
of men and had in all ages  of the world;
women had as much at stake in the present
crisis as men had, women had endured as
much here, and given as much genuine help in
making homes in this barren desert, and should
make the utmost exertion to stimulate with
faith and energy the voters of the People’s
Party. Urged the sisters to read the daily
papers, and referred them to the article from
the pen of Apostle F. M. Lyman in the No-
vember number of the Contributor. Rejoiced
to see the young men training in riding and
marching clubs and thought how grand the
young ladies would look on horseback, as in
times past when the military were on parade.
	Pres. Horne followed speaking eloquently
upon the same subject and added that the
“Liberal” party boasted of the improvements
they would make etc,” expend a million of
dollars, but where would the money come
from, the people of course would be taxed for
all this extravagance, she thought the Lord
required us in this and in every emergency to
help ourselves and when we had done our
utmost He would lend His aid and support.
Referred to the example of Tooele Co. and
also spoke of the military parades in Nauvoo
in the days of Joseph the prophet,and that he
always had ladies out on horseback whenever
the Nauvoo Legion were out exercising.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young spoke in a similar
strain, she wished we could infuse this spirit
into the hearts of our neighbors and
friends, referred to the trials of Nauvoo when
so many were sick with ague, the sorrows
afterwards and our prosperity here in the
valleys of the mountains, thought we should
live nearer to the Lord, pray every day, and
fast every Sunday—straws will show which
way the mind blows; we should be examples
of purity; the same spirit is on the earth now
that was upon it when the Savior was crucified.
The Lord is for His people, keep close to the
body of the tree, hold fast to the iron rod,
the Saints are the leaven spoken of; as long as
one half are for the kingdom of God He will
be on our side and we need not fear.”  A
verse of the hymn. “The spirit of God like
a fire is burningt’ was sung.
	(Sister Jane James burst forth in praise to
the Lord and spoke in the gift of tongues.
Sister Zina gave the interpretation.)
	Sister Barrows bore her testimony to the
truth of the Latter-day work; and referred to
her husband’s account of the days of Nauvoo.
Thought it was necessary to be very careful;
and that unless we do our duty we shall be
burdened greater and more heavily, rejoiced
that her sons were in the right path and also
her daughters.
	Sister Mary Dyer bore a strong testimony.
	Sister E. Stevenson, “we are commanded to
meet together often, we all need to be mission-
aries and impart to others the good words we
hear from time to time. Our political situation
calls for our attention at the present time, we
must be diligent, the prayers of the Saints
avail much, we built up this place, we crossed
the plains in early days and endured priva-
tions; those who come now have comparatively
easy circumstances and are not prepared to
pass through trials, we must take them by the
[Column 3]
hand, and set an example worthy, by living
our religion. We must watch over our young
girls, dress them modestly and not like butter-
flies; and study economy, put away vanities
of all kinds, Sister Eliza always spoke against
these things and Sister Woodruff spoke of the 
little things that hindered us. Brother Kim-
ball used to say “it was the little foxes that
spoiled the vines.”
	Sister Frances Smith said it was 39 years
since she was baptized into the church; she re-
joiced in the Gospel and in all its principles.
Her sons were on the right side, they would
all vote for the Peoples Party, she had never
felt discouraged in regard to our political
situation, thought we should have faith and
take courage, right would triumph.
	Sister Zina made some further remarks and
referred to the Commissioners Report and ad-
vised the sisters to read it and also the report
of His Excellency Gov. Thomas; these men
know their statements are false. the mothers
should be informed upon all these points.
Repeated some of the sayings of Joseph the
Prophet in regard to the persecutions of the
saints.
	Sisters Diana Reid, Julia M. K. Wenner-
holm, Lois Hook, Jeanette Morris, Helen
Houlton and M. A. E. Watmough, each spoke
feelingly upon the political situation, and the
necessity of keeping the commandments of
God being ever earnest and prayerful and also 
watchful. Meeting adjourned for two weeks,
congregation rose and sung Doxology. Bene-
diction by sister E. S. Taylor.


MILLARD CO. W. S. A.

	A meeting of the Millard Co. W. S. A. was
held at Scipio Oct. 22.  Mrs. M. A. Y. Green-
halgh presiding.  The meeting opened by the
choir singing one of "Freedom's Songs."
Prayer was offered by Mr. W. Hatch.
	The President stated the object of the meet-
ing and this being the first meeting in Scipio
the Constitution was read, and roll of members
called.
	The President gave an account of the
commencement of the movement, and
of the many noble men and women
who had taken part in it, and of the
first convention held at Seneca Falls N. Y.
June 1848, which was quickly followed by
others to which were sent reporters from many
of the principal newspapers, and were attended
by statesmen, and senators from all parts of
the United States.  The meeting was then
addressed by Thos. Memmott, Mrs. E. Yates,
Wm.  Hatch, Jesse B. Martin and Mrs.
Thompson.
	The meeting was well attended and all the
speakers expressed themselves in favor of
Woman's Freedom and her right to the
Suffrage, and pledged themselves to assist to
obtain that right by every legitimate means.
Benediction by Fred K. Wasden.
	Two meetings of the Millard Co. W. S. A.
were held at Kanosh Oct. 31.  Mrs. M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh presiding.
	The first meeting was held at 2 p. m., and
at the close of that meeting the people re-
quested the President to remain and hold a
second meeting at 7 p.m. which was like the
first, numerously attended.  During the two
meetings the choir sang six of the songs of
"Freedom" in a lively and spirited manner,
which added greatly to the enthusiasm of the
meetings.  Prayer was offered at 2 p. m. by
C. Hall.  The president addressed the meeting
giving an account of the origin and progress
of the Woman's Suffrage movement and the
necessity for women to have the right to vote,
and many reasons why they should.  Addresses
were then given by Jesse Hopkinson, B.


Watts, C. Hall, E. F. Christenson, and Wm.
Prows Esq. Benediction by C. F. Christenson.
	The evening meeting was opened by singing,
and prayer was offered by Wm. Prows Esq.
The President gave an account of her travels
in the East, and of the way women were
treated in those lands and their improved con-
dition at the present time, and of the better
laws now in force, for the protection of women,
in Europe.
	The other speakers were C. Bement, J.
Gardener, Q. Abrahams, J. Dameron, J,
Prows.  Mrs. Adelia Kimball in a short ad-
dress encouraged all to join the association
and make themselves conversant with politics
so that when the time came that they had the
right to vote, they would know how to use
the privilege judiciously.  At the close of the
meeting the president was cordially invited to
visit Kanosh again at an early day, and give
them some account of her travels, in the
Orient, and other lands, which she consented
to do, she advised the young people to organise
a literary society, and introduce civil govern-
ment, and home politics among their other
studies, offering them any assistance she was
able to give.  The meeting closed with prayer
by Jesse Hopkinson.
						M. A. Y. G.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		﻿A MASS MEETING.
   A mass meeting of the women of Utah Co.
assembled for  the purpose  of organizing  a
Woman  Suffrage  Association  on Wednesday
Oct. 23 at  the  meeting  house  in  Provo  at
half  past  10 a.  m.  Mrs.  Mary John called
the attention of the assembly and stated the
object of the meeting. Mrs. E. B.  Wells of
Salt Lake City was elected  Chairman  of the
meeting   and   Mrs.   Susa   Young  Gates
Secretary.
   The meeting opened with the song "AMERICA"
and  prayer was offered by  the chaplain  Mrs.
Marilla M. Daniels
   The Secretary read  the Call  as published
in     the    Utah    Enquirer    which      was
signed by Mrs.  Mary  John  and  Mrs Marilla
M.  Daniels.   The Chairman inquired  what
was the pleasure of the meeting; and  was re-
sponded to  that nominations for officers were
in order: most of the nominations were made
from the body of the house and were put  in
their regular order by the Chairman and voted
upon.
   The officers  are  as follows President Mrs.
Mary Jane Tanner, 1st Vice President Mrs.
Electa Bullock, 2nd Vice President Deborah
Billings 3rd  Vice  President Mrs. Joanna Pat-
ten, Secretary Mrs. Susa Young  Gates,  Cor.
Sec. Mrs.  Adelaide G. Snow,  Treasurer Mrs.
Jane  P.  Jones.   Chairman  Executive  com-
mittee,  Mrs Caroline B. Pratt members Ex.
Com.  Mrs. Isabelle Thurman, Mrs. Alice M.
Wilkin, Mrs. Rebecca H. Doolan, Mrs. Teenie
Smoot Taylor,  Mrs.  Lizzie L. Gillespie,  Mrs.
Sarah  E.  Cluff,  Miss  Lizzie  Loveless,  Miss
Delia   Maeser.   Vice Presidents for the larger
towns were appointed  as follows,  Mrs.  Sarah
Ann Boyer,  Springville,  Mrs.  Agnes  Lewis,
Spanish Fork, Mrs. Millie Stark, Payson, Mrs.
Fannie Stewart, Pleasant Grove,  Mrs. Minnie
P. Grant, American Fork.
    The Secretary read the  Constitution  of  the
National  W. S. A. and a  vote was called  and
the  articles adopted.
    The   Secretary  read   the  By   Laws  and
Regulations of  the U. W. S. A. as amended
which were unanimously adopted.
    Mrs. Tanner  the newly elected  President
read a very able and interesting address which
we  give in full.
   Mrs. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen:  It
is with much diffidence  that I stand  before
you on this occasion.  It  is new work for me

[Column 2]
to  speak in a political capacity, and, as  none
of us have made politics a study, I  think  I
shall be readily excused  if I show myself in-
capable of entertaining you with  a  learned
exposition on matters pertaining  to suffrage.
The object of our meeting  is to organize an
association and to  agitate  the question  of
woman  suffrage.   While  we  may  not  at
present gain any material advantage from this
movement,  we desire  to give the  weight of
our labors toward strengthening the hands of
those, who have so  long and valiantly fought
the good fight in behalf of the women of this
nation.   That many improvements have been
made  in  the general condition  of  women
during the  latter part of the present century,
no reading  or  thinking person can reasonably
deny.   That much yet remains to be done and
that much can certainly be done by her own
efforts  for her enfranchisement is evident to
all.   A band  of  noble  women  have  been
working for years  to raise  her to a more ex-
alted standard.  To  cultivate  her ideas  and
give her aspirations, a securer basis to work
from.   How much sorrow and wretchedness
might be averted if woman could understand
her own  true value in the commonwealth of
the nation.   When she asserts her rights and
man recognizes them she will cease to become
his plaything: a  shuttlecock for  his amuse-
ment,  fit only to pander to his vanity or his
vices.   That she was created for a companion
and help-meet to man, no  one will attempt to
deny.   That her weakness makes her depend-
ent  on  him to a certain degree  is evident.
That man's strength constitutes  his weakness
and he is  to a certain  degree  dependent on
her is  quite as evident.  When we admit that
neither is capable of independent action,  that
wealth,  happiness   and  station   in    society
connects them indissolubly,  then should we not
admit that politically and socially they should
be  equal.   If one is  stronger than  another,
then let the stronger carry the heavier burden.
It  is  so in the economy  of nature.   All men
are  not  equal in strength, education or intel-
ligence,  but  we would not infer  that  their
rights  or  liberty of action, were not equal or
that their political rights should  be curtailed.
That  women might  not use the ballot intelli-
gently we will not deny.   Neither does man in
all cases.   That  women  are  not  posted  on
political matters is a question  of no moment.
All  men  are not sufficiently acquainted with
matters of vital interest to the country.  They
are sometimes easily  enlightened by the ju-
dicious use of money or whisky.  For sake of
argument we might say that perhaps women
might be as easily instructed; but for the sake
of   woman  we  would  scorn   the  assertion.
   While reflecting on  these things my mind
reverts to Utah in her infancy.   It is less than
half a century since she was born as an  inte-
gral part of the Union.   My feet were among
the first  to tread the barren land of her deso-
lation.   Not a field under cultivation;  uot a
fence nor a cabin met  the eyes, all was barren
and  desolate;  solitude  and silence reigned
supreme.   A few small streams of water made
their  passage  through  the mountain  gorges,
and on those silvery streamlets,  sparkling  in
the sunlight, hung  the destiny of a people iso-
lated from  home and friends, from  laws and
humanity.  These fainting and weary pilgrims
suffered  from  the rigors of the  climate and
the barrenness  of  the  desert.    Their  crops
were devoured by  the insects from the moun-
tains and  their  lives  endangered  from  the
squalid barbarians who eked out a  scanty ex
istence by competing with the starving wolves
for the little game that survived in  this  for-
bidding  district.  Such  was  Utah in her in-
fancy.   Honest toil and  preservation through
every trial and difficulty has raised her to the
position she now acquires as one of the most
thriving territories  in  the  Union.   And  is

[Column 3]
this  the  work of man  alone?  Not by  any
means.   Woman's courage, skill  and  labor
have been here; woman's consolation and en-
couragement in the hours of sorrow and disap-
pointment; woman's heroism and devotion in
time of danger and death; her tenderness and
love; her happiness and  smiles when success
crowned her labors.   Why  then  should  she
be  held  a  vassal  to his power; a slave to his
whims and caprices?  God never made her so.
He gave her  to man for a comfort and a help-
meet.  Should  she  then not join with him in
making and sustaining the laws of the country;
of his country;  of her country.   Are not their
responsibilities equal, their interests identical?
Is not her head as clear, her heart  as true and
her  judgment as sound as his?  But,  says one,
women should not be  dragged into  politics;
there is  too much that is coarse and degrading
in the association she is liable  to come in con-
tact  with.    Wherever womam  goes  her  in-
fluence  refines and   purifies.  In  the  back-
woods, in the  mining camp,  wherever  she
comes she brightens with her presence, and the
veriest ruffian will  stay  the oath upon his lips
rather  than offend.   Might  she  not then be
able  to still the turbulence of political  dis-
cussion  and purify  the atmosphere  of  the
ballot  box  and the jury room?  In  all  the
years that  the women of Utah held the fran-
chise  were they  ever accused  of unseemly
conduct, or of voting inconsistently with their
own interests,  or what they believed to be the
best interest   of the country?  Did   not   the
Gentile  woman vote for her Gentile friends,
and  the  Mormon woman  for her Mormon
friends without fear or favors? and was ever
the  ballot  corrupted or  the laws vititated
because women took part in it?   It  is  not
thought degrading for woman  to labor to sus-
tain herself and her family.   Her services may
be the most menial, her association the most
questionable and no fault is found on the score
of her womanhood.   Her taxes are as accept-
able  and  her conduct as amenable  to  the
laws  as  if she had  helped  to make them.
Woman in  politics should  be a  power unto
herself.  She should cultivate  and  enlarge
her  intelligence that she  may  influence in
wisdom those by whom she is surrounded.  If
she cannot  vote she  can  teach her  children
the  principles of republican government; and
rouse in her sons and brothers an ambition to
guard  the best interests of the  commonwealth,
by choosing men  of honest  principles  and
sound judgment as guardians of  the laws and
liberties  of the  people.  Let  us,  then, fulfill
our destiny, whatever it may be, and bear off
our part honorably  as  wives, as mothers and
as  daughters, and sustain every  good and wise
law that  is made for  this, the grandest and
best government that exists in the present age
of  the  world.   And  all  honor  to  the noble
women who are striving, in the  face  of oppo-
sition and discouragement, to  plant  on  this
honored  soil  the feet of freeborn  women as
citizens of  this great republic.
   Hon.  W.  H.  King recounted  his first ex-
perience in politics and the pride with  which
he cast his  first ballot.   The same experience
characterizes  woman in  her  duties to  her
country.   Mr,  King very beautifully depicted
the  progress women  had made during the last
decade,  showing  good  reasons  why women
should  be  permitted  to exercise  political
rights  equal with men.   God made women
equal with men and endowed her with  qualifi-
cations indespensible to  the  welfare  of our
government.   Mr.  King's speech was  a very
eloquent  plea  for  the enfranchisement of
women.
   Mrs.  Wells  said  she well remembered  the
first ballot she cast and was quite sure she  was
fully as proud of the right as a boy of  twenty-
one could be, Mr.  King  said "the  women of
Utah  have  voted  as intelligently  as  many


men."  I believe the women of Utah voted as
intelligently as men.
	Mrs. Wells spoke of the advancement
women had made since their first organization
and alluded to the special work accomplished
before Legislatures and Committees in modify-
ing the laws relating to property rights of
women and children, giving some instances of
the cruelties and hardships under the laws as
they formerly existed, &c.
	Hon. A. O. Smoot said his sentiments were on
record in the legislature that passed the
Suffrage Act.  He advocated the principle be-
fore the Governer at that time and believed his
sentiments had some effect.  He believed it
only a question of time when the whole nation
would yield to Woman the right of Suffrage.
	The convention then adjournsd until 2 p. m.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ANNUAL WASHINGTON CON-
VENTION.

	The Twenty-second Annual Washington, D.
C., Woman Suffrage Convention will be held
in the Church of our Father, corner of L.
and 13th streets, on Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday and Friday, February 18th, 19th,
20th and 21st, 1890.  And at the Rigg's
House on the afternoon of Monday.  February
17th, will be an executive session of the
officers and delegates of the several states and
territorial suffrage societies, at which it is hoped
every one of the forty-two states and five
territories will be represented.  Persons wish-
ing copies of the National-American Constitu-
tion should address the Secretary of the
Committee of Arrangements, Rachel Foster
Avery, 748, North 19th, street Philadelphia,
Pennyslvania.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. “Stonewall” Jackson is writing a
biography of her husband.
	A new club to be known as the Arts and
Letters club, is being formed in London.
	There are nearly 10,000 women nail-makers
in England, and 347 who are blacksmiths.
	Dr. Alice Stockham recently spent five days
at St. Petersburg, after which she visited
Count Tolstoi at his country estate.
	Lady Forester sends each week to the
factory girls of London upwards of 2,000
bunches of flowers, gathered by the servants on
her estates.
	Mrs. Ada C. Bittenbender, the well known
lawyer of Nebraska, will represent the de-
partment of legislation and petitions at the
National Convention.
	Harriet Beecher Stowe is an honorary mem-
ber of the Author’s Club of New York, and
the only woman writer connected with that
organization.
	No woman has all the rights she needs unti
the thought she cherishes and the conviction
that burns in her heart on any great public
question can be put into suffrage language.—
Rev. E. A. Horton.
	The University of Pennsylvania refuses to
be bulldozed by its ungallant students, and
will admit young women into its classes.  It
will be interesting now to see if the young
men carry out their threat and quit the Uni-
versity.  We guess they won’t.—Boston
Herald.
	Miss Ida M. Street is the name of the young
woman who has won the fellowship offered by
the Collegiate Alumnae for advanced study in
foreign universities by graduates of colleges in


the association likely to do original work in
science or literature.  "George Eliot as a Rep-
resentative of Her times" was the title of the 
thesis which won Miss Street the prize. 
	A work of more than ordinary interest will
be made of the material which Maud Howe
Elliot and her sister Florence Howe Hall, are
now shaping for "The Life of Laura Bridg-
man," famous deaf and blind mute.  The work
will contain an account of Miss Bridgman's
 education, by Dr. Samuel G. Howe, her in-
tellectual and spiritual development, and ex-
tracts from a series of journals and diaries
which she kept.  A number of unpublished
letters from Charles Dickens, Charles Sumner,
Longfellow, and others will be a feature.—Ex.

	Dr. Alice B. Stockham, who is now in
Europe, was the guest of the Baroness Gripen-
berg, in Finland recently, and was given a re-
ception by the Women's Club of Helsingfors.
She was the first American woman to be thus
honored.  Dr. Stockham had a very warm re-
ception.  When she left Helsingfors, the ladies
of the Women's Club came to see her off at
the railroad station, each armed with a bouquet,
which they pinned to Dr. Stockham's dress, till
she looked like a flower garden.  Dr. Stock-
ham is now in Paris, and is expected home
about Christmas.—Ex.


OBITUARY.

	Died in the 14th ward, Salt Lake City, of old age, Oc-
tober 26, 1889, Sister Ann Clewley.  Sister Ann was a faith-
ful and devoted Latter-day Saint and diligent in the duties
pertaining thereto.  The deceased was in her 88th year at
the time of her death, and had been a member of the
 Church for forty years.  She was a woman of great energy
of character perhaps stimulated, by having been compelled
through circumstances to make her own way in the world
in early life.  She was born in Sucksforth,Lincolnshire
England on the 24, of April 1802.  Her parents died when
she was a very small child and her grandmother took care
of her until she was twelve years of age, when she too was
taken from her by death, and the little Ann was thrown
 upon her own resources.  In 1823:  she went up to London
and found employment in a gentleman’s family where she
remained until 1834 when she was married to William W.
Clewley and moved to Leamington, Warwickshire.
	Afterwards herself and husband and also a niece of the
husband heard the Gospel preached and embraced it being
baptized by Elder Alfred Cordon in 1849; they started for
America the same year coming by the way of New Orleans,
arriving in St. Louis the following January.  They re-
mained there for three months and then went to Council
Bluffs and were counseled to settle there.
	Brother Clewley had been an invalid for several years,
and while he was at the Bluffs he was taken down with
inflammatory rheumatism, and during his illness Sister
Clewley was obliged to dispose of her clothing and other
things to procure necessaries.  These were the days
when the Saints were passing through the scenes of ad-
versity and many were compelled through force of circum-
stances to do the same as this good woman.  She nursed
her husband faithfully for which labor she was peculiarly
adapted, and she also labored hard to obtain means to
bring them to Utah.	
	They left Council Bluffs in 1852, Brother Clewley had
to be lifted into the wagon when they started on the
journey.  He died on the 12, of July, just as they arrived
at the Platte River, after ten months of severe suffering.
	Sister Clewley arrived in Salt Lake City the 2nd, of Oc-
tober 1852.
	When the writer became acquninted with the sister now
deceased she was the wife of Elder Phineas Richards, and
she was for many years an active and faithful teacher in the
Relief Society of the 14th ward, and prompt in all her
Society duties and also an excellent nurse among the sick
which calling she followed for years;  There are many who
will remember her speaking in the sisters meetings in the 14,
ward and also in little companies and parties to which she
was often invited especially of later years.  Her great age
and experience gave her wisdom in spiritual matters which
she never tired of imparting, or of bearing testimony to
the truth of the Gospel.  But our dear sister has gone to
her rest in peace and her reward is sure.  "Blessed are


the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth;  Yea,
saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors; and
their works do follow them."
										Com.


VALUABLE SOUVENIRS from Mormon
—Hill Genuine specimens of
Stone or Wood, 25c. Fine Photo. of Hill and spot
where the Golden Bible was found, 50c. Auto-
graph of Major Gilbert, who printed the first
Mormon Bible, 25c. Elegant Photograph of
Major Gilbert with Autograph Letter, 50c. ALL
of the above, $1. Guaranteed genuine. Send at
once. AGENTS WANTED.
	MORMON HILL EXCAVATION CO.,
				Main Office, Palmyra, N.Y.

UNION
PACIFIC
THE
OVERLAND
ROUTE

TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—A.T—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS, J. V. PARKER,
City Pass. Agt.	Div. Pass. Agt.	

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 18.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1889.		No. 14


CONTENTS.
	Otillia—A Christmas  Story.—Augusta Joyce
Crocheron.  Old Age.—Mary Corby. Emma—
A Thanksgiving Story.—A. W. C. . An Open
Letter to my Friends.—Zina Y. Card.  Schools of
Music.  The Mouse in the Pantry.  A Voice from
Mesa City.—Sarah.
	EDITORIAL—Holiday Thoughts. Editorial
Notes.  The Fairy Mother.  Lucy Webb Hayes
Association.
	POETRY:—The Best Christmas.—Lu Dalton.
A Thought.—Lysle De Vaux. Birthday—To E.
C. F.—From Sister Lu.  Christmas Eve.—
Augusta Joyce Crocheron.  A Hundred Years to
Come.


[Column 1]
		﻿THE BEST CHRISTMAS.

"Mamma and Papa, oh, do wake us!" they cried,
	And let us go with you, do, please!"
And the dear dew-bright eyes, with eagerness wide,
	Gave emphasis double to "Please."
And the cunning wee diplomats offered a bribe
	Of kisses and hugs from their store,
Enveloped in promises, duly inscribed
	And sealed, to be good evermore.

These infant detectives had fairly surprised
	A wondrous intrigue in the house
Their elders were thinking they had not surmised;
	Which was of this pleading the cause.
The darling old grandparents over the way,
	So loving, and patient and sweet,
Had given with blessings on each Christmas Day
	Their troop of grandchildren a treat.

The annual note to these parents in hand
	Invited by name every one,
And mentioned the lady, so new in the band
	That even a name she had none,
As "the lovely young baby who lately has come''
	“Will be pleased" and so forth—here a smile—
To meet cousins uncles and aunts at our home”
	The shouts of the children grew wild.

They chattered of turkey, plum pudding and pie,
	Dear Grandma presiding in state,
Of aunties and uncles, and cousins "so high,
	And just can peep over the plate.”
Of Grandpapa’s blessing which "was rather long,"
	Though Grandpapa meant well enough,
Of uncle Will's "monica," aunt Rena's song,
	And jolly old Blind Man's Buff.

But papa and mamma had but little to say—
	At least when the children were by—
But talked in a low ridiculous way,
	And ceased when the children drew nigh.
The urchins resented such underhand work,
	Resolving the secret to win;
And win it they did by cunning and quirk,
And this was the cause of their din.

"Papa and Mamma, do waken us, please!
	We’ll be just as quiet as mice!
Oh let us go with you to Grandma's, oh please!
	For nothing was ever so nice—	
No, not Santa Claus with his reindeer and sleigh,
	Nor dollies, fire crackers and toys;
If you'll let us go with you, we'll be every day,
	Your very best girls and boys.

Now who could resist coaxing sweetened with kiss?
	Especially, be it well known,
That from the beginning the parents meant this:
To leave not one urchin at home.
But who in the market their wares give away
	Which readily sell for a price?
So the children succeeded in having their way
	By promising everything nice.
[Column 2]
Now comes Christmas Eve with sweet stories of Christ,
	The ever new records of love
Which fill every chid-heart with purest delight,
	And light to long after-years prove.
And then the goodnights and the eager behest—
	“And dear mamma, please don't forget
To call us so early we'll be ready dressed”—
	Mamma said "I will not, my pet."

		Cold and clear
		The morn is here,
	The gates of the east aflame
		Herald the car
		From depths afar
	Of day;  and with glad acclaim
		We greet the dawn
		Which thus comes on
	To bring to the waiting earth
		Remembrance sweet
		Of angel feet
	And love's divinest birth.

		Rejoice! Be glad!
		Let none be sad
	On this happy Christmas morn,
		For far away
		This blessed day,
	Our Holy One was born.
		Our kindred ties
		He glorifies;
	We honor them more and more,
		And thus we throng,
		With love and song,
	Around our parent's door.

Uncle Will's sweet harmonica quavered and trilled
	Like twittering birds in the spring,
While children and parents the frosty air filled
	With melody sweet as they sing.
They open and enter, with blessings, the door,
	And hasten to Grandmamma's room;
The candles they carry their radiance pour,
	To banish the lingering gloom.

"Dear Father, dear Mother, Merry Christmas!” they cry
	And smother with kisses each face,
Lift up to the pillows each wee girl and boy
	To lisp the sweet greeting with grace.
Then lift two huge stockings, two cubits in length,
	Upon the white dimity spread,
Near bursting with fulness, requiring some strength,
	To lift them as high as the bed.

"Oh thus Santa Claus laid command on your sons,
	Your daughters and little ones here,
To give in his name these small hose to the ones
	Who’ve honored him many a year.
Beloved of  Santa, arise and explore
	The depths of these stockings we bring;
To quicken your fingers a pulse or two more,
	Your children around you will sing:

		Blessings!
	Blessings softly rest
	On the dear ones we love best,
	Grateful thanks to heaven we give
	That our parents dear still live.
		Blessings, blessings!
	Choicest blessings ever fall
	Pray your children one and all.

		Blessings!
	Blessings for the care
	Lavished on our childhood fair;
	Blessings for the toil and pain 
	We can ne'er requite again.
		Blessings, blessings!
	Blessed be your latter days,
	Filled with comfort, peace and praise.
		Blessings!
	Blessings on the day
[Column 2]
	When our Savior oped the way
	For renewal of delight
	In the land all pure and bright.
		Blessings, blessings!
	Ties of kindred never rend,
	Love and gladness without end."

"God bless you dear children, "they murmered, while tears
	Of tenderness brightened their eyes,
"How time has rolled backward the scroll of the years
	To give us this happy surprise!"
And while the fair circle of joy—beaming eyes—
	Those nearest the floor most within—
Keep eager lookout as each parcel unties,
	The voices make musical din.

“Oh, Grandpa," cries Frankie, I'm one Santa Claus,
	I put in that splendid new drum;”	
"I gave you that candy, those nuts, and those toys," 
	Cried each little "Hop o' my Thumb."
And Grandma had dollies and vases, and mugs,
	And sweetmeats, and ribbons, and lace;
Her little ones spiced them with kisses and hugs 
	'Til tears ran like rain down her face.

She said "O my darlings these beautiful things
	Are dear to my heart as can be;
But grandma must never be stingy, so come.
	And taste all these goodies with me.
And Grandpa said "Frankie, my brave little man,
	I’ve forgotten, you see, how to drum;
So take my two drumsticks quick's ever you can
	And play me a good Christmas tune."

And Fanny was asked to "Please hold my new doll,"
	And Katie “my necklace" to wear 
Just while it is Christmas," till each one and all
	Were busy with "helping" the pair.
The search in the stockings again they pursued,
	And still drew out heaps of fine things—
A new shawl for Grandma, a tippet and hood,
	A lovely gold brooch and earrings.

For Grandpa warm gloves and a charming fur cap,
	A muffler, a coat and a cane,
For both a large Bible to close with a snap,
	And an Album of verses and names.
The daughters and sons who stood lovingly by,
	All beaming with pride and delight,
The old folks said, wiping a tear from each eye,
	Themselves were the joy of their sight.

At last all withdrew to the kitchen and hall,
	And busily ran here and there,
To spread a long table, sufficient for all,
	And breakfast in order prepare.
Then Father and Mother, (now dressed with nice care,)
	Were brought to the table in state,
Where all in sweet reverence knelt down in prayer,
	Each one just before his own plate.

The breakfast was simple (the feast was to come,)
	Toast and butter, oatmeal and rich milk,
In fact just enough to be plenty, and none
	To make the dear little ones sick.
When the house was in order from garret to shed,
	The sleighs were brought round to the door,
To take some on visits with dainties and bread
	As gifts to the sick and the poor.

The children grew solemn at some things they saw,
	And sympathy sprang in each heart;
And gladly for those who had need would they draw
	The baskets and leave them a part.
No preaching nor teaching but this little gem—
	“Whatsoever ye do," sayeth He,
"To the least of my little ones, doing to them,
	Ye also have done it to Me."

Less noisily glad but more happy, they come
	To Grandpa’s dear threshold again,
Where stories and pictures kept busy their tongues,
	Till dinner was ready; and then


Came the grand Christmas feast with roast turkey and—
		there!
	I dare not attempt to portray,
For the carping young critics would surely declare
	'Twas better than all I could say.	

Then games, riddles, music and sweet Christmas song,
	Made pleasant the rest of the day;	
Then, loaded with kisses and blessings, the throng
	To other homes hie them away,
When they helped those wonderful stockings to fill,
	And carry them over the way,
Was the very best Christmas, the children will tell
	And stoutly maintain to this day.
								LU DALTON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
			OTILLIA.
		A CHRISTMAS STORY.
	"Dear me, Floribel, did I really promise to
tell you a story tonight?” “Yes, Auntie,”
answered a chorus of sweet voices chiming in
with Floribel’s.
	Auntie looked away from the fair, youthful
faces gazing so expectantly into her's and
answered dreamily: “I’m sure I don’t know
what to do about it, so many things of a
different nature have filled the day with such
bright realities, that fancy has had no chance to
rest a moment; don’t you think we’ve had
enough—and then—the ball?”
	Such a shadowing of bright faces! The
twinkles vanished from sparkling eyes, restless
dimples disappeared like a flash, lips all smiles
just now, drooped in downward curves and
those penetrating, thought-searching, loving
eyes, where pleading had not quite yielded to
dissappoinment; what a sight they were—that
group around Auntie!
	Floribel just touched the white flannel
around her throat, a reminder that there was
no ball for her tonight (but then, Floribel was
only thirteen;) Rose, Jessie and Lillian with
arms entwining each other stood mutely con-
fronting her and Marguerite slipped around
behind the chair, then, framing Auntie’s head
in her pretty arms, softly kissed her. Auntie’s
slender white hand moved gently upward and
rested on the dimpled ones locked together;
and mused: “Of course you want a new one,
and I fear that my stock of stories is about ex-
hausted; shall it be a real one, or not?”
	The idea of Auntie’s story repository being
exhausted! Hadn’t she always been able to
tell them the very best ones anybody ever
heard and on the shortest possible notice and
didn’t they all know they were newly coined
stories that no one else ever knew of, to tell
anybody? So the twinkles and the dimples
and the smiles all came back and Auntie could
tell just what she pleased, only when it was a
fiction they all felt sorry it couldn’t have been
true; but—how delightful fictions always are,
and may-be—who knows—something nearly
like them might be true, somewhere; it always
takes something real to make a shadow, don’t
it?
	Auntie glanced at the clock across the room,
(it was just lamplight, and there was time for
a short story before going to dress for
the party,and a delightful consciousness of their
satisfaction would go with her); it wouldn’t do
to disappoint the pretty nieces who always
looked upon her as their very ideal of a gentle
gracious lady, and would have done any pos-
sible thing for her comfort and pleasure; so
she drew Marguerite around to a seat beside
her on the sofa, Floribel fell like a snow drift
on the other side and at the same moment the
three others sank upon the bright rug before
her and settled down to give her the closest
attention.
	“I think it had best be a true one tonight,
I may as well take the first one that comes to

[Column 2]
my mind, plain though it be, and strangely
enough this figure in memory has passed before
me several times today.”
	There was no sparkle of amusement in
Auntie’s face, no sign of mystery, but a gentle,
far off look and the loving faces grew more
serious.
	"Some few years ago, before your parents
came to live in this pleasant city, there was a
young woman who used to come to our house
twice a week to help us. To have met her upon
the street, you would not have guessed that
anything but a quiet stroll was her object, no
suggestion of work day presented itself, no
hurry in her gait, no carelessness in her attire
or anxiety in her countenance, just a quiet
dignity of deportment.  When she entered the
house her face was smiling, her manner
courteous, and a spirit of cheerfulness and
buoyant strength made itself felt at once. The
children would hasten, one to take her hat,
veil and shawl, another would draw a chair
near the table or fire for her, her cough would
be inquired after and last, no—sometimes first,
our three year old boy would ask: “did you
bring me a candy mouse, Miss Otillia?”
	Then such a pantomine of gestures and ex-
pressive changes of countenance would follow;
to see her clasp her hands and look so seriously,
her face half averted, you might think the
treasure had been accidentally forgotten; but
no, never ceasing to watch the baby’s features,
her hand would slide down into her pocket
and draw out a small package, which con-
tained gum drops, peppermint lozenges and
chocolate cream mice, these last for her favorite.
"O, dat sweet mout!” she would say expres-
sively; “Well now, I don’t care, I would walk
a mile any day to bring something to dat child;
I don’t know if someting will happen to him
sometime; dose eyes too bright, dose cheeks too
red and and dat voice when he say ‘Miss
Otillia!’ then Miss Otillia would close her eyes
and turn away with such an air of inexpres-
sible tenderness that we could not help smil-
ing at her frank and emotional way, for we all
knew that she was sincere and really loved the
boy. I think that if he had been a young
prince she could not have shown him more
tenderness and respect, or listened to his pro-
fuse promises of what he would do for her
when he became a man. He had a quaint
fancy, no one knew where it came from, of call-
ing himself “Little Reindeer.”
	One day when after her work was over, she
sat down with an air of weariness, in a rock-
ing chair, he came before her and resting his
hands on her knee looked sympathetically in
her face. His long, flossy, golden curls lay
upon his shoulders and she was studying the
picture.
	“Miss Otillia, when Little Reindeer is grown
up to be a man, you shall not be tired any-
more; I will take you in a carriage and you
shall have a silk dress and shi—ning beads
and I will give you flowers and grapes—and
you shall ride and ride, far away with me.”
Eagerly listening to his loving sympathy, with-
out a word to repulse or chill his little heart,
Miss Otillia covered her face with her hands
as though such sure happiness was overwhelm-
ing, then answered him: “Den, my Little
Reindeer, I will never ride with any one else,
I will wait for you.” “If I did not know for
myself when dis boy was born, I would sure
believe me he was some royal blood; to give
himself a title like dat! like it was his right;
and to be so fine and proud and make such
grand promises! Well it is his nature!”
	When we would gently remonstrate with her
for spending her money in candies for the
children she answered with dignity: “Please
don’t say dat, to have some one watch for me
and expect something of me, makes me to feel
like I was somebody and not myself all alone.
I get so tired, to buy things just for myself.”

[Column 3]
So we could not deny this gentle appeal; but
if we tried to make it up to her by any extra
allowance she was quick to discern and decline
it. “It is one dollar, and no more.”  Dear
Miss Otillia, she was so exquisitely sensitive,
proud, independent and loving; witty too. She
had a way of her own in dismissing suitors,
that there was no getting around. “Yes," she
reflectively answered one lover: “you have
known me these several years and seen me
earn my own living, why did you not ask me
a long time ago?”
	“Oh, no, not now, when you wait so long to
see if I was nice enough.” Imagining he saw
a ray of light through his o’ershadowed hopes,he
pleaded embarrassment and inquired if his fate
might have been different at an earlier stage of
their acquaintance. Miss Otillia regarded him
with a sidewise serio-comic look and replied.
“I think not.”
	After his departure she said emphatically,
that “he was a fine man.” “Then why did you
refuse him?” “I mean a fine man, for some
other woman.” So it went, the ardent were
dismissed as too hasty, the more retiring as too
tardy; one answer for all—no. And yet, Miss
Otillia was not heartless, it was because she
placed a higer estimate upon the marriage
contract than is usual. Through the fires of
sacrifices the dross of her own nature had been
consumed and she exacted for the pure gold of
her own heart, only its equivalent; a pure life
to watch a pure life, harmony in faith, and
true love to match her own.
	Few that were acquainted with her had an
idea of her complete self. Her outer and inner
life were different yet harmonious. To mere
acquaintances she was a perfectly proper, un-
married woman; to her friends, a continual
wonder, entertainment and admiration; a being
of noble purpose, self sacrifice, love and child-
like simplicity. And her history! I must tell
you that, so you may understand her.
	I have often wondered if, when she so quietly
threaded her way along the yet uncrowded
streets, her mind was not elsewhere amid scenes
of the past, for she was very proud of her own
country, Denmark.
	There was one very eccentric person whom
she had known at home, and she would often
defend him,for his peculiarities were frequently
alluded to. “Well now I don't care; dat was
a very fine gentleman at home, he had a
position in de King’s palace and his wife was
so fine! almost like a high born lady; and
now he is poor with no one to say what he is, I
will speak for him!” One day I quietly asked
her to step outside and when we reached the
end of the house, a very excitable harangue
could be heard, a confused and amusing com-
bination of English and Scandinavian; the
person was quarreling with an American on
the street corner. In a moment she recog-
nized her countryman and with deepest morti-
fication exclaimed: “O Mine own Country!
What would mine King say to dat gentle-
man. And so beautiful, he can preach and
sing dem hymns,” and here again, gestures
and looks finished the sentence.
	A great actor had been playing Hamlet at
our theatre and I remarked to her; “I saw
you last night, how did you like the play?”
	“I guess I like dat play as well as any one,
Hamlet was a Dane. Dat Shakespeare have
to come to My Country for dat grand sub-
ject, but (with impressive dignity) you should
see dat play in Copenhagen. “Does it not
recieve justice at our hands, Miss Otillia?”
“Well now, Mrs. I don’t say but dat dey do
as vell as dey can in de English language
but—” and with another of her expressive
looks Miss Otillia humiliated our national
pride) but we humored her for we knew how
much our country and our faith have cost
her.	
	“How did you come to receive the Gospel


Miss Otillia?” “I was in Copenhagen. My
father was killed in His Majesty’s service
and soon after de war dem Mormon Elders
came and my mother believe dem. Before
dis, so many dead bodies caused sickness and
my eyes went almost blind. My mother in
her faith called in de Elders and my eyes
were healed and in my thankfulness I was
baptized, with my sisters and my brother. I
was not always at Copenhagen. We had lived
near de palace of Prince Christian at Glucks-
burg before he was King and my mother did
often mend de dresses of de little girls Alex-
andra and Dagmer. Many days and years we
played and studied together; and dat Dag-
mar was so sweet! when we run through de
garden, and she tell us so much about dem
pictures of dead ladies and gentlemen ’till I
know dem all. When de time came for dem
to go and be made fine ladies because dey
must live in de palace at Copenhagen when
King Frederick die and bye and bye be
married to some Princess, den I see dem no
more to speak to dem, only once in a long
while when dem lovely Princesses see us, dey
know us and remember and smile. You see
my mother had something given her to do at
Copenhagen after dey was dere. When
Alexandra go away so happy to her English
home, I sit me down and cry; O, dem flags!
and dem fine sights! but de English love her.
Now you must not laugh at me nor be sur-
prised, but poor Dagmar, among dem Russian
Nihilists, I pray for her every day I lives!”
Tears were in Miss Otillia’s eyes and could I
do less than say; “pray on Otillia and may
Heaven grant your prayers.”
	O, royal Dagmar in your resplendent palace
in the proud Empire of the North, little there
comes to you the thought amid your regal
splendors, the fulness of your joys or the
tumult of your fears, that a playmate of your
childhood remembers you with the devotion
of subject to sovereign and trembling for
your peace, prays for you in her lowly home in
far off Utah. And is it not probable that
these prayers have shielded her?
	“There must have been other friends, too,
whose loss you remember and miss.” For
reply she took from her finger a ring and
pointed to the inside and I read the names
Waldemar and Otillia. She replaced it on
her finger and said: “Now I will tell you.
We had been Mormons awhile but did not
talk of it outside de members, it was no use
my mother said; so when this one so long my
friend came every week, we waited to see if
he would hear and believe. One evening as
we walked together he told me he had heard
about some Danes had been baptized into dis
strange church, and said dey was crazy fools
and he wish de King would punish dem. He
was in de King’s service and looked so grand
and terrible! I knew dat night I must never
see him any more it must be one or de other
for me, not both, and I took de Gospel.” “Did
you not feel tried and alone, Miss Otillia?” “I
was not de only one dat was tried; I could
tell you of many aching hearts and I had to
be sorry for dem too.” Dear Miss Otillia
thought I: if I ever hear anybody speak
slightingly of you as an old maid I’ll see
about it. “One night dere came into our
meeting a lady and we were so surprised we
all knew who she was de Lady Amalia, (a
maid of honor I tink you call it) to a grander
lady. She had heard from her brother about
an angel had come in this de plan of salvation
and must hear it for herself. O, when she
walk down de room her dress just make a
noise so beautiful; and dem diamonds in her
ears; well now it did look strange in dat little
meeting because so many poor were der. But
dat lady was not proud, it was just like she
dressed all de time and when she heard de
Elder preach de tears run down her cheeks
[Column 2]
like rain, and many others cry too.” “Why
so Miss Otillia:” “Well now, Mrs. dat lady
knew it was de truth and she could not deny
it, and she knew when de grand people find
her out, she must be cast out from dem.
	Her brother came with her and he was an
officer. Bye and bye de grand lady asks her:
“I hear about your going to a strange
church?” Lady Amalia would not say no,
and de other one said: “If you go no more
it is well, but if you do you must leave me.”
Den she looks so terrible dat Lady Amalia
almost faint away but de next moment she
held out her hands and asked: “Will you let
me tell you someting? but she would not
listen, so she told her brother and the same
had been said to him; so dey take dere fine
tings and sell dem and she teach music awhile
and he teach language till dey come away to
America. Now; when dat Lady Amalia
came to Utah she was soon married to one of
dem Elders and where do you tink she went
to live?” “I can’t imagine Miss Otillia, do
tell me?” “Away, up north of Salt Lake
City and into a log house she spend her first
Christmas! and her brother said: “Let us
have a big fire for I cut and hauled dese logs
myself, and he was so proud as if he was right
in de palace at Copenhagen!” Miss Otillia
laughed so heartily at this that I could not
help joining and loving her more than ever
for her artless happiness.
	Two years ago this Christmas, Miss Otillia
sent me by the hand of a friend, a little token
of remembrance; a card with her name and
silver doves in flight across the upper margin,
Weeks passed by during which I was plan-
ning to leave home and go see her. One day
there came the dreadful word to me that she
had been sick for several weeks and had died
almost alone, attended only by her widowed
sister. For days, that heavy cloud of sorrow;
that vain remorse for slighting the promptings
of the still small voice; and seeing not that
flight of the spirit which the little doves fore-
told. And it seemed that before me rose a
pure white shaft, plain as her life among us
had been; revealing not the words that floated
before me night and day.
	Here lies one who was the playmate of
Alexandra, of Dagmar and of Thyra, whose
footsteps turned from palace halls to follow
the summons of the Gospel’s sound, to toil
and dwell in humility yet remembering ever
in her prayers the crowned and noble friends
of her childhood. Rest Otillia, thy weary
body here, but may thy quickened spirit there
still spread the plea and guardian ship of
prayer round thy beloved Dagmar. May’st
thou walk in fairer palaces than those of earth,
till thou shalt meet that one, whose name thy
failing breath revealed greet thee with a bride-
groom’s kiss.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Dec. 6, 1889.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A THOUGHT.	
Often in the evening, when the darkness cometh on,
	And the shadows fall around us,
Bringing sadness, quiet, calm;
	Do we think of those dear loved ones,
Who to us are life and hope.
	Do we raise our hearts in gladness
And a blessing then invoke?

When our lives are blessed with treasures,
	Such as love can only bring,
And our homes are made resplendant,
	By the joy that reigns within:
Then, oh then the soul’s fulfillment,
	In this earthly life is seen,
And a glimpse of heaven is shown us,
	In this shadowy world of sin.

And is the world not coming
	To a richer, nobler plain?


Are not the crumbs of knowledge
	Going to count us in the main?
O yes we are advancing,
	Through the mist and through the dark.
There is an age now dawning
	Which must satisfy the heart.

It is the coming of the Savior,
	Who is the God of light;
And in the world's redemption,
	Sin, and satan, must take flight.

Christ is coming, can't you see him?
	Through the whirlwind and the strife,
Fast advancing in the form
	Of an everlasting life.

Open then your hearts,
	For there His habitation
	And only there must be
He is the God of Love—of Hope—of Kindness—
Shrouded in Charity.
						LYSLE DE VAUX.


BIRTHDAY—TO E. C. F.

		FROM SISTER LU.

As the golden days of October,
	Merged into November gray,
Far backward I wander'd in fancy,
	Thro' long misty years away.
Kind memory drew back the curtain
	From many a fairy scene,
Gilding all with luminous glory,
	Fresh as the blossoms of spring.

There I greeted a new-born infant,
	As from the heavenly fold,
Assured that it must have come earth-ward
	Fom out the city of gold.
Oh, what joy a little child brought us!
	Wonderful love and delight,
I live it all o'er in the gloaming,
	On this chill November night;

The glad smiling welcomes and greetings,
	As gleams from Paradise shed,
Shine brightly in memory's keeping,
	From out the years that have fled.
The sweet infant smiles, soft caresses
	The touch of a tiny hand,
The old and the young in their places,
	Complete the dear household band.

Safe 'mong leaves of November
	Are pictures sombre and bright,
Leng stored in memory's chamber,
	Where frosts of time cannot blight,
By love's clear magical lantern,
	Shining down the muffled years,
Thro' life 'till its golden autumn,
	Come fresh views of smiles and tears.

To-night on this anniversary
	A day made famous of old
We send thee greetings most tender,
	With love that never grows cold.
We ask that long life be given,
	If God in wisdom sees best,
And choicest blessings of heaven,
	To make it supremely blest.

Retrospection on thy pathway
	Beam with a halo sublime,
Kind hands strew flowers about thee
	To solace days of decline;
In firm faith rejoicing ever,
	'Til life's wintry days are gone,
Then, in the bright land of summer,
	Awake in glory of dawn.
Atchison, Nov. 5th, 1889.

*Gun powder Plot in London, Eng.


A Volume of Poems by Bishop O. F. Whitney
is being published at the Office of the Juvenile
Instructor.  It is expected it will be ready for 
sale at Christmas time.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00, one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.	
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,  -  - DECEMBER 15, 1889.


HOLIDAY THOUGHTS.
	Salt Lake City has put on her holiday attire
once more, and bedecked herself profusely with
gay colors, and on every side one notes immedi-
ately that Christmas is at hand.  The stores and
shop-windows are almost too full for display,
though a great deal of good taste is manifest in the
arrangement of Christmas goods.  The children
are on tiptoe with excitement, and gaze as they
pass along with wonder-eyes, at the variety of toys
and playthings, on exhibit.  What a contrast the
streets present now to thirty years ago, and how
the little folks revel in luxuries that Santa Claus
supplies for their indulgence.
	One cannot help an occasional feeling that after
all there may be a little over-doing in the way the
children celebrate Christmas now-a-days.
	There seems to be an extreme forcing itself 
upon this community in this, as in many other
respects in the present day, and we are all more
or less willing to float along with the popular cur-
rent, rather than attempt any positive reform.
Latter-day Saints should be wise and cautious in
every matter that will have a bearing upon the
education and character of their children.  It is
the tendency of this particular age or period of
time to run after pleasure to indulge in things that
if not radically wrong, lead in that direction.
	This people are living in a most important era
of the world when a great work and a wonder is
to be wrought, and it will hardly be the over-fed
and uncontrollable children who cry for and de-
mand every bauble they see, that will be qualified
and prepared to bear off the kingdom victoriously:
If so it will be contrary to any principle yet known.
Jesus said,  "He that would be like unto me let
him take up his cross and follow me."
	If in the midst of the abundance of worldly 
goods, simplicity of style and manner of living
and dressing could be judiciously exercised, truer
happiness would be found than in the super-
abundance of those things that are neither good
for young or old. The saints are following the
customs of modern Christendom, instead of com-
plying with the laws of life and health and giving
heed to the knowledge that will tend to life
eternal.
	It is a blessed thing to stop sometimes, and take
a little recreation, and contemplate the condition
and circumstances which surround the community
in which we live; and to hold communion with
those of one’s household, this is heavenly. If it
were not for these days set apart for such re-
unions the family ties would not be as closely
riveted as they are; this is what sweetens life, and
makes the bitter portion many drink to the very
dregs, more palatable, and gives zest to senti-
ment and strength to the affections.
	Children do not have too much love, not even
on Christmas, no it is not that,but they very often
have too many toys and sweetmeats. How many

[Column 2]
﻿little children are there in the world who long
more earnestly for real love, than they do for
aught else; there is no comfort or luxury will
supply its place even in the heart of a little child
There is more happiness because of love than
from any other gift.
	The Savior has taught many lessons of love in
the New Testament, and enjoined upon the saints
to love one another. It is natural to seek the happi-
ness of those we love, to spare no pains, to grudge
no self-denial on our part, and this we should
teach to the children. Above all else mothers
tell the little ones a story on Christmas, and let it
be a true one, that will always be remembered.
Who knows where we, or they may be when
Christmas comes again? Therefore make the day
one of contentment and peace, of gladness and re-
joicing not only to our own, but to those who are
suffering or bowed down with care or sorrow.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Exponent extends to all its patrons and
friends here in the valleys of the mountains, and
abroad throughout the various nations, where it
goes as a messenger of “peace and good will,” good
wishes and a very merrie Christmas and a Happy
New year.
	Our readers will see that as the paper this time
is a real holiday number, we have omitted for once
publishing regular articles such as Reports from
the several associations, and obituaries, and also
the continued story of Hephzibah. We hope to
please, interest and amuse some of those who are
fond of poetry and stories. It will be a distinct
number and suitable to send away as a remem-
brance to friends, we shall have extra copies
struck off specially for that purpose.
	A day of solemn Fasting and Prayer has been
appointed by the First Presidency of the Church to
be observed throughout these mountain vales, and
all are requested to unite in beseeching our
Heavenly Father to pour out His Holy Spirit in
great power upon His servants and all the Saints
as a testimony that His watch-care is over His
chosen people. The day set apart is the next
anniversary of the birth of the Prophet Joseph
Smith—December 23rd, and special meetings will
be held also prayer meetings; places of business
of the Latter-day Saints will be closed on that
day. The fast will commence at sundown on the
22d, and continue until sundown of the 23rd.
We have heard many of the sisters express them-
selves desirous of a fast or meeting of this kind,
and the appointment is sure to be responded to by
every Latter-day Saint who feels the importance
of the present condition of this people.
	The regular quarterly conference of the Y. L.
M. I. Associations of this Stake will be held in the
Assembly Hall, on Friday, December 20th. Meet-
ings will commence at ten a.m. and two p. m.
Presidents of the associations are desired to use
every influence possible to have this conference
well attended. It is expected that some of the
Church authorities will be present to counsel the
young ladies. All who are interested in the
cause of mutual improvement are invited to attend.
The Conference of the Relief Society of the
Salt Lake Stake will be held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Hall in this City on Thursday Decem-
ber 19th meetings commencing at 10,. a. m. and
2, p.m. as usual. A representation from each
branch of the Relief Society is earnestly desired,
and it is sincerely hoped there will be a large
attendance of the members, as this is a time when
union and a faithful discharge of duty on the
part of each individual member seems impera-
tive. Bishops and other brethren, are most
cordially invited to attend the Conference as
also all interested in this benevolent organi-
zation.


THE FAIRY MOTHER.

I sat me down to-night, to sing a song,
	A Christmas song of other days methought,
The wind was blowing furiously along—
	And as the muse beseechingly I sought,
I heard some voices whispering soft and low,
And then I listened, curious you know! 		

Ah, well-a-day I thought, perchance I’ll hear  
	Some fancy for my song, some secret spell;
A fairy may be lingering very near,
	Or blithesome wind some wondrous tale may tell;
A little story one can weave in rhyme,
And sing to children, at the Christmas time.

And as I pondered lo, a change of scene,
	Yet the bold wind kept up its music too.
And now with Santa Claus a radiant queen
	Enters the room robed in a sapphire blue,
He with his furs and baskets loaded down.
She simply clad in cloak and flowing gown. 

I wondered why she went about like this,
	And kept herself forever by his side;
And on her face a smile of restful bliss
	So chaste and pure, ’twas like a virgin bride
But all the while she walked with noiseless feet
Til Santa Claus had made his work complete.

And as she wandered through each silent room
	On tiptoe quietly her task to fill,
A magic light dispelled the former gloom;
	And here and there she scatter’d at her will 
Rare sweets and beauties with her gentle hand.
And hummed a song, I could not understand.

Sometimes I thought its meaning very sad.
	Yet with the light in those expressive eyes
I knew it must be full of promise glad
	And ever and anon she looked so wise—
As glancing up and down she went about
Til Santa Claus was ready to go out.

And then she shut the door, and down she knelt,
	Praying to God for wisdom and for grace 
I thought I knew what she that moment felt.
	But light and glory shone upon her face,
When she arose and viewed each shining head,
Nestled so closely in their downy bed.

O angel-mothers in your homes to-night,
	Let every word be like a fairy pearl,
To shine in after years forever bright,
	A talisman, to every boy and girl
To bind them closer to the hearth and home,
Whether on land or sea, they yet may room.


CHRISTMAS EVE.

'Tis Christmas Eve. In every home 	
	Where Christians know the glorious name,
Each face is bright with hope and joy,
	And every hearth with leaping flame;
Nay check the happy, thoughts and words
	That should be truth, for sadly wakes 
Remembrance of the poor of earth—
	For them, what joy through sorrow breaks?

In many a church this day have met.
	The brave and strong, the fair and bright,
Until with wreaths and winter flowers
	'Tis made a beauteous, sacred sight; 
A rev’rent tribute to our Lord
	To whom earth’s riches are as naught, 
But the soul’s off'ring brought in love
	An incense with sweet perfume fraught. 

Beneath those arches, garlanded 
	With evergreens' eternal prime,
'Mid columns wreathed and streaming light,
	'Mid music’s welcome, sweet, sublime;
A being clothed in purest white.
	Enters, a loftier form beside,
And bent and youthful forms alike
	Whisper their blessing, on the bride.

The throng is gone the church is closed
	And gentle voices fill the air.
The lights of home, like stars they shine
	And joy and music wait them there.


But, happy as e’er bride or groom,
	The children’s hour at last is found,
The arch triumphal of their day—
	The fire place with stockings 'round.

Then clasp and sweet good nights are heard 
	Far up the stairway and the hall;
O, wedded lovers—parents fond—
	Children are happiest of all.
O, Angels, touch those dainty cheeks
	With Heaven’s love in guardian kiss,
Come, after years with all life hath,
	There'll be no sweeter time than this.

O pity! for those darkened lands
	That have not learned the Love and Light,
The ‘Peace on earth good will to man’
	That shall each creature's wrongs make right.
O pity for those lonely isles
	That ’wait for Thee’ through ages long,
Where man is Master, or is slave
	And Satan holds his fortress strong.

But pity more the souls once free
	Now prison bound for truth’s own sake,
Who’ll hear within their tow’ring walls 
	The sounds of Christmas morn awake.
For these who’ve borne the word of God
	No sweet home greeting and embrace,
Yet faith shall heal the tender wound 
	And light the gloom of e’en, that place.

And little children springing up
	On Christmas morn their joy will check 
A moment, just, the while they cling
	Around their lonely mother’s neck,
Yet by the Name that crowns this Day,
 	We know this trial is for good,
That test will end when we have proved
	True manliness and womanhood.

So ring, ye merry Christmas bells
	Front lofty spires and flying sleighs,
Though joy is sweet. His loved ones' tears
	More precious are than sounding praise.
And, by some angel messenger
	Tidings of love in prayer will send,
'Till comes the time when all at home
	The blessed Christmas hours shall spend.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Dec. 8, ’89.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OLD AGE. 
	We often speak of old age as going down the
hill—I rather like to speak of it as going up a
steep and rugged hill, or mountain where we have
to climb over first one rock and then another
—alternately bruised with stones and torn with
briers which grow from the bottom of the hill to
the top.
	It is now many years since I began to ascend
this hill. I surmounted the rocks pretty readily
at first, but I found that the higher I ascended the
steeper was the hill and the more difficult I found
it to progress, and as I advanced I found I needed
some supernatural help. I thought of my Savior
and knowing that He had traveled a rugged path
while on this earth and that He was able and
willing to help me and to sympathize with me, I
sought by prayer and faith for His guidance, and
He graciously condescended to accompany me
up the hill. I also found it necessary to take the
promises of my Heavenly Father for my staff,and
I began to search the sacred Scriptures for those
most suitable to my circumstances. I sought
counsel and encouragement from the Prophets—
David exhorted me to be of good courage assur-
ing me that the Lord would give strength to His
people, for said he, “I sought the Lord and He
heard me and delivered me from all my fears.”
With this staff for my support and the company
of my Saviour I felt I was advancing. Others
were on the road with me, but although aged like
myself, they seemed to get over the rocks easier
than I did, consequently were a little in advance
but we all struggled on until we came to a beauti-
tul piece of green-sward on one side of our path

[Column 2]
and the opposite side a dreary desert. I was
hoping to enjoy with my companions a rest in the
cool shade of this beautiful spot, but my Savior
said to me—“Come ye apart into this desert place
and rest awhile.” When there He laid affliction
upon me and brought me very near to the gates of
death. In my distress I cried—“Be pleased O,
Lord to deliver me, O Lord make haste to help
me.” He graciously answered my prayer by
sending two of His servants, clothed with the
Holy Priesthood and power to heal the sick and
by the Anointing with Oil and the prayer of faith
I was again placed on my feet and re-commenced
my journey up the hill. I soon found another
large rock in my path, and weak and weary as I
was I wanted to sit down and rest, but no, upward
and onward was the Motto set before me and I
must not falter. With the help of my God I have
climbed over these stumbling-blocks until I have
nearly reached the top of the hill, and looking
up, I see an outstretched hand which I know to
be the hand of my Heavenly Father waiting to
help me over the last step.

		"I have but Thee oh, Father! Let Thy Spirit
			Be with me then to comfort and uphold;
		No gate of pearl, no branch of palm I merit
			Nor street of shining gold.

		Suffice it if—my good and ill unreckoned.
			And both forgiven through Thy abounding grace—
		I find myself by hands familiar beckoned
			Unto my fitting place.”

	Turning round to take a retrospective viw of
the road I have traveled, and taking special notice
of the rocks and briers I have had to contend with,
I am astonished to find that I have been permitted
to reach so near the top of the hill, and with ador-
ing gratitude I acknowledge the hand of my
Father through it all, and especially do I thank
Him that He has permitted me to come on this
earth at the time when he has revealed the ever-
lasting Gospel, and I know that whatever trials
He may call me to pass through in the near future,
He will deal gently with me, although one of the
weakest of His Saints.
	May we as a people be able to purify our hearts
before Him, that we may stand perfect and com-
plete in His sight. 
						MARY Y. CORBY.


EMMA.
A THANKSGIVING STORY.
	The snow had been falling all through the
night and the morning light found everything
in the little town of L. sleeping beneath a soft,
white coverlet which the sun’s bright beams
turned into a mass of sparkling gems. Over-
looking the pretty town on the brow of the
hill stands a great white temple, which with its
snowcovered towers and turrets seems even
whiter now, and watching the fleecy clouds just
separating, leaving one large clear, blue space
above its snowy roof, one fancies that glorious
monument the dwelling place of angels
only just now dropped from heaven to cast a
divine light over the broad, beautiful valley
beyond.
	'Twas the last Thursday in November. A
fair, cold, silent day, a day when one prefers to
remain indoors and enjoy the warm fire, the
sumptuous dinner and the games and stories
which this holiday usually calls forth; but a
few found a sweet pleasure in ascending the
hill to the temple and enjoying a few hours
within its sacred walls mingling their voices in
praise and thanksgiving to the Father. I stood
without, listening to the sounds of music and
looking at the distant landscape where the
river winds among the blue far stretching hill,
enrapt in a strange aud sombre mood, when the
great outer door was opened and the worship-

[Column 2]
pers came forth, their step so light, their faces
all aglow as though some serene influence
guided every thought. Among the throng I
marked one whose step was just as light but
slower, whose face was as serene but still a
little sad, and he wandered from the crowd in a
lonely untrodden way; him I resolved to fol-
low. He led not to a bright cheery home or a
noisy street, but to the silent, lonely burying 
ground, and winding among the tombs and
mounds finally halted before a simple stone on
which was cut the name Emma.
	As he read the inscription his eyes filled with
tears and right in the snow he knelt and offered
up a prayer. I passed on but waited near the
gate hoping to learn from him as he returned
from his lonely visit, the story of her, whose
memory he held so dear, for story I was sure
there must be, a romantic one at that, but I 
scarcely had imagined anything so strange and
sad as the tale I afterwards learned.
	The stone marked the resting place of a wo-
man, possessed of such grace and beauty as any
of England’s fair daughters could boast, and
endowed with wonderful gifts and accomplish-
ments.
	In her father’s simple English home she
had ever been the brightest flower, cheering
and comforting her parents, caring for and
amusing her younger brothers and sisters, and
delighting and entertaining them all, and their
guests as well, with her piquant manner and
charming voice. One evening a stranger from
London was brought to the little home and in-
troduced to Mr. B's—family by a friend, and
as was customary the father, always proud of
his daughter’s beautiful voice, requested her to
sing for their entertainment. The gentleman
instantly perceived that the quality of her
voice was far beyond the ordinary, and him-
self a musician and director of an orchestra,
(though this fact was unknown to his host and
family,) saw an opportunity to make some gain
as well as pleasure through cultivating these
new acquaintences. He praised Emma’s voice
and insisted on her singing a number of songs,
but never admitting his own profession or
knowledge of music. He appeared to be
simply enjoying the melodies, while all the time
he was trying to note the compass,the strength,
the power, the pathos of this gentle girl’s most
wonderful voice. That evening was but the
beginning of a series of calls, and the gentle-
man came at different hours trying to gain an
opportunity to meet Emma alone and then
make her an offer, which he feared her parents
on account of their religious prejudice might
reject, but believed that he might persuade her
to accept. The opportunity finally came. One
evening some strangers from America were
holding a meeting in a large hall not far
distant from Mr. B’s. They professed to be
elders, teaching as Christ and His Disciples
taught, and some excitement had been worked
up through their coming, and Mr. B. had per-
suaded his wife to go with him to hear them.
Emma was left at home in charge of the
children and had just finished helping them off
to bed and returned to the little parlor to enjoy
a few moments practice when the door bell
rang. She felt sure it was her new friend. To
a girl like Emma, simply reared, but sensitive
and refined to a degree beyond her surround-
ings, the attentions of a cultivated and intelli-
gent man are very flattering, and when they
become so marked as Mr. Reading’s were,could
not help but touch her heart, such was indeed
the case. She knew the sound of his step,
and her heart throbbed if he touched her hand,
the blood rushed through her veins and tinged
her face, as his eyes rested upon her with such
looks of admiration and affection as he often
bestowed upon her. She scarcely dared to be-
lieve he loved her and was loth to acknowledge
that she loved him, but she knew that when
he was absent she was wretched, and that his
presence alone chased every unpleasant, discon


[Column 1]
tented thought from her mind. That evening
he revealed to her his profession and offered to
train her voice, telling her that he knew it to
possess such power, that with proper cultivation
she could claim the homage of princes, and
great wealth and renown would be hers. He
was not deceiving her now, but he did not also
care to tell the struggles and trials of a public
career. He made an offer to give her lessons
and bring her before the public, insisting that
the surprise to her parents, if she kept her
lessons secret would give so much more
pleasure, that she consented. The lessons in
music went on and lessons in love as well, and
one evening Emma presented her parents with
two opera tickets, telling them she bought
them with her own allowance and begging
them to go, for it would be something they
would greatly enjoy and ought not to miss;
Mr. B. was himself something of a singer and
consented as he usually did to Emma's en-
treaties. The dear girl was flushed with ex-
citement, her dark eyes shone like stars and
her countenance was a perfect glow; she
danced around the house, completed her little
every day tasks and begged to go to see a
friend for a little while. She went to a neigh-
bor's who was in her secret and there dressed
in her costume for the opera, covering herself
with a large cloak she proceeded to the theatre
in company with her friend. Mr. Reading
met her at the door and he felt, by her ex-
uberant spirits and bright face that he need
have no fear of her success.
	The curtain rose and the old-fashioned couple
sitting in the best seats in the building turned
their attention to the stage, they had been gaz-
ing at their surroundings, and the audience had
been gazing at them, it looked so odd to see
these simply dressed working people among
the most fashionable part of the audience. But
after the music began Mr. B. had no eyes or
ears for the be-jeweled people around him but
was at once lost in the sweet strains from the
violins. All voices now were hushed, and the
music vibrated throughout the building, the
faces of the audience were all expectant, for a
new prima donna with an Italian name if not
descent, was about to appear; every sound was
hushed as proudly and gracefully she came for-
ward, her sweet voice, with just the slightest
tremble, pealed forth its pretty song, when she
had finished for a moment the silence remained,
then a loud deafening applause began which
ended only by her reappearance and a repitition
of her song. The old folks were at first stricken
almost dumb with surprise, and neither offered
to move until the song ended, then the father
spoke aloud, "Why that's our Emma!" As in-
deed it was, and this was but the beginning of
a long stage career.
	The kind but stern father remonstrated and
the mother entreated her to give it up, though
she did seem so wrapped up in her chosen pro-
fession, for they apprehended with a parents'
anxiety that failure, poverty and despair, as
well as fame and success might be the fate of
a public life.
	Not only was their daughter in love with
her profession, but she was deeper in love with
her instructor, and she readily saw by accept-
ing an offer of marriage from him not only her
ambition satisfied, for he wished her to pursue
the stage, but her happiness complete. The
father mistrusted him almost from the first, and
besides he and his wife had become imbued
with the new doctrines that "the Americans"
had brought to them and naturally wished
their children to accept them as well. Mr.
Reading on the contrary had refused these
teachings and was a bitter opponent to them,
but his influence with Emma prevailed, he be-
lieved her voice would be certain fortune to
him, and if his love was not as great as his
avarice he at least held sufficient affection for
her at that time to make her his wife. 
[Column 2]
	The Elders, as they called themselves, often
visited at Mr. B’s. and taught his family the
gospel, but Emma was seldom present always
going to rehearsals and operas, and her lover
took great pains to prejudice her against this
new religion. He finally decided to return to
London, and therefore hastened their marriage,
that he might bring his beautiful, young wife
before an audience in that great metropolis.
	The wedding was quietly celebrated at home,
Mr. B. consenting. After a thorough investiga-
tion of Mr. R’s. character, he found him to be
fairly well liked among his London acquaint-
ances most of whom were musicians, and though
nothing very commendatory was revealed still
neither was there anything to justify him in a
positive refusal to the marriage, when he
realized how much his daughter's happiness
depended on it.
	The parting from home was far sadder than
Emma imagined; she was so attached to every
little thing in the home of her girlhood, and
the precious little sisters and brothers, and the
patient and tender mother and her great-souled,
dear, dear father, oh, how she clung to them
all and wept, and even faltered, and would fain
have remained in the quiet, homely little nest,
even though she believed the world was waiting
to greet her and do her homage, but the hus-
band hurried her off and with tender words of
his own; and wonderful stories of her approach-
ing fame, soon led her thoughts into other
channels, and on they sped to the great city,
where a human being is noted, no more than a
single bee in a huge swarm.
	The home of Mr. B. was very lonely without
their dear girl, but the family were much en-
grossed with their new faith and their house
had almost become a home for the Elders as
they paid their usual visits to the locality.
There were many of them now, coming and go-
ing all the time, making new converts and
working and teaching among them. Emma
wrote from time to time, but her letters became
less frequent and less gay, and the father feared
that her life was not all she had anticipated,
though she wrote that she had been very suc-
cessful in her profession, still they failed to hear
other reports of her success, such as they had
believed would come, for in their own blind
love they had been vain enough to think her
fame would be wide spread. Alas, how many
take a public step with the same belief and
soon are quite content with only a local reputa-
tion.
	Emigration to America was the next move
in Mr. B's. family, and as their preparations
were being made they all thought of and longed
for Emma. The father felt he could not
leave her in England in such an uncertain
career; and the mother's heart yearned day and
night for her lovely daughter; the children
asked is Emma coming, we want her to cross
the big ocean with us too?
	They wrote again and again but received no
reply, and at last the day for departure came
and no word from Emma. The little family
parted with country and friends and would
not have grieved much, so full of bright an-
ticipations of the new home in the West were
they, and they might have been quite content,
had it not been that their most beloved
child was somewhere in this land, they knew
not how situated, whether ill or well, miserable
or happy, as it was they looked back many times
and sighed for country, home and daughter.
	In the new land they soon made a happy
comfortable home and the children grew up
'mid pure and religious principles to be honest,
trusted and beloved among their friends. The
father never failing to respond to any duty
placed before him became revered and honored,
but ever in that little home was there a long-
ing and a desire for something not yet theirs.
At last their prayers were answered and ti-
dings came of the daughter, whom last they saw
[Column 3]
a weeping, smiling, hopeful bride. She was
alone in an English hospital, her husband after
compelling her to work on the stage under all
circumstances even when he saw her health
was undermined, till her voice completely
failed her and she could not get engagements,
deserted and left her to grope her way alone
in the world in sickness and poverty. The
letters her father sent her she had never re-
ceived, for her husband did not wish her to
know of their emigrating for fear she would
wish to come. His treatment had even then
assumed some degree of cruelty.
	With what little means she could gather after
selling her few treasures which she had managed
to keep from her husband, she gained admit-
tance to a hospital and while there confided to
her nurse, who seemed a kindly disposed wo-
man, the story of her father and the new faith
he had espoused. It happened that the nurse
had heard of this new Gospel and was in cor-
respondence with an Elder-at that time,and so
she worked with Emma to help her to find her
father. The nurse wrote to the Elder to come to
the hospital, and after hearing Emma's story he
wrote for her to the Presiding Elder in Eng-
land to find out when and where her family
had emigrated. Word was sent to her father
and he soon sent means for his daughter to
come to him. The thought of seeing her dear
ones and the hope that another warmer cli-
mate might possibly cure her cough, for it
was consumption, which exposure and over-
work had brought upon her, raised her spirits
to an unusual degree, and she seemed to revive
as though by magic. She stood the ocean
voyage and long journey to the West re-
markably well, but when at last the journey
was over and in her father's comfortable home
she was reinstalled as their own bright star,
her strength again failed, and she faded and
died in her mother's arms.
	And this Thanksgiving day the father had,
had ceremonies performed in the Lord's Temple
for that dear daughter, who could not live to
do them for herself, and he strolled to the grave
to offer there a prayer of thanksgiving for the
return of his loved one to him, to his people,
and to her Lord.
	This was the unwritten story beneath that
little stone marked Emma.
							A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AN OPEN LETTER TO MY FRIENDS.
		“Some have gone to lands far distant
		And with strangers make their homes."
	In some respects this is my case, but while
in a distant land far from home and kindred,
friends are here for all saints when assembled
as we are, making new homes, redeeming the
virgin soil, are near and dear friends. How I
wish I could sit and chat with the dear
friends at home, or could write a letter to
each that we might have a personal digest of
old times and happy scenes of the past. There
are many who have passed from this field of
usefulness to the great beyond. I have wept
when the sad news reached me, not for those
who have died in the Lord but for bereaved
ones here. When the echo of marriage bells
reached me I have rejoiced, if those who were
wed were given by those who have the power
to bless. The sweet little strangers who have
swelled the forces of our “home emigration"
have been kissed and admired, in heart and
mind for my fondness for them remains, as
“Dickens” says!
		“They are idols of hearts and of households
		They are angels of God in disguise"
and no home, can be all home without them.
So the years wear on apace, and all are chang-
ing. Are we growing into a oneness that the
eventful scenes we are passing through de-


mand? I trust and believe so, else I should
not be writing you now.  Shall I give you a
few leaves from my life here?  it may inter-
est you.
	The last two months have been full of
interesting events for our little colony.  On
the 27, of September we were honored with
the company of one of Canada's most influen-
tial and able men.  Hon. Mackenzie Bowell,
Minister of Customs, he was accompanied by
his Dept. Min. Parmalee' and the Inspecter 
of Ports, Capt. Geo H. Young, who by the
bye is doubtless distantly related to us.  They
were met at the St. Mary's River by my hus-
band and Dr. Allen, Collector of Customs at
that port, and a staunch true friend to us.
After an excellent dinner the party were sere-
naded by the choir, then a pleasant evening
of intelligent conversation on many of the
leading topics of the day, with jest and repar-
tee.  In the morning a drive amongst our
fields and flocks viewing our improvements etc.
then adieu with many kind words of praise and
wonder at all that had been accomplished in
two years by us, and we go on our even way
once more.  Not so the press and people for
we have had many words of encouragement
and comment through his Honor's visit, and he
has been "chaffed" not a little for his praise
of us.
	The 12, of October found a party of seven-
teen of our people wending their way to
Macleod, a setlement some 40 miles distant.
Our object in going was to meet the Gov.
Gen. of Canada who is the Representative of
the Queen, and who in company with his wife
Lady Stanley, her daughter, two neices, Mr.
Coleville Sec. Sir James Grant, court physi-
cian, and Mr. Villiers, the correspondent and
artist for the "London Graphic," were to be
there.  A most distinguished party, and we de-
sired to pay them the respect due from all
loyal citizens.
	Within 9 miles of the village our party
fell in with the Vice Regal party, who had
been visiting the Ranch of Senator Cochrane,
viewing their immense herds of stock. etc.
They were escorted by a body of mounted
police who made a very fine appearance.
Through the courtesy of our esteemed friend
Dr. Allen we camped on his grounds, where
we had the pleasure of meeting His Excellency
and Lady Stanley, Sir James Grant, Mrs.
Coleville, Miss Leister and Miss Stanley.  We
were treated in the kindest manner possible.
They honored us by coming into our tent,
chatting freely and cordially, expressing the
pleasure it would have given them to have
visited our little settlements, etc.  Monday
morning Lord Stanley accepted the only
opportunity that presented itself to listen to
our address which he kindly listened and re-
plied to in a most happy and appreciative
manner, said we were welcome here, and in-
vited us to use our influence to induce others
to come.  Hoped the prophecy of Joseph
might be verified.  "All who observe the laws
of her Majesty's Dominion were free to dwell
under the folds of the British flag," stated he
should inform the Queen of our loyalty and
progress, and here let me state that it has
rarely been my lot to meet more unassuming
plainly dressed, and truly kind and gentle
people than are the real nobility of England
whom I have had the pleasure of meeting.
	Dr. Allen was the open "Sesame" to our
many privileges, and we felt truly grateful
for his kindness, he is one of nature's noble
men in very deed.  We need friends and
"Our Father" raises them up as he sees fit, all
praise to Him.  The next event was the steam
thresher, whose whistle woke the echoes of the
Rockies for the first time in this vicinity.  In
the course of a days threshing 4,400, bushels
of wheat and oats were stored away which is
another cause for gratitude, as the drouth in

[Column 2]
the summer, and a fierce hail storm, and early
frost made us a little doubtful for a season.
	The 29, of October brought us the best of
all.  Pres. Woodruff and party arrived here
after a ride across the prairie of 50 miles, all
in excellent health and spirits.  Can the joy
that filled our hearts be told?  no never, twas
meat and drink to our souls 'twas the knowl-
edge that we were cared for by our file leaders,
and the sweet consolation of the spirit of God,
that accompanied them.  Their words of in-
spiration and advice of approval of Brother
Card's course, the strength to him and all,
made it a time of times to us, and made us
feel that our little trials were more than com-
pensated for and forgotten in the joy of their
presence.  (If my dear mother and son could
have been here my happiness would have been
complete.)
	The people were joyfully assembed in con-
ference capacity Sunday and Monday and all
were filled with the desire to do and bear all
things for the gospel's sake and our hearts ran
together with heavenly love and praises to
Our Father, for all his tender mercies, Tues-
day was Pres. Card's 50th birthday, and all
the people assembled in the meeting house
where a splendid public dinner was partaken
of by all, in the evening a party and concert
combined was indulged in by our respected
visitors and nearly all the settlement.  We
had a good time, never to be forgotten.
	Wednesday the 6, the party went to Macleod
as the guests of Dr. Allen, stayed over night
in his elegant home where everything was
done for the comfort of his guests possible, 
next day to Lethbridge visiting the magnifi-
cent coal beds and works of the Galt Co. under
the polite and generous managers kind care
young Mr. Galt.  Through tears we see them
start for beloved Utah, "peace go with them."
And love to you all from the heart that never
forgets a friend, though far away.
				Yours ever,	
						ZINA Y. CARD.
Cardston, Nov. 12th 1889.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A HUNDRED YEARS TO COME.

Where, where will be the birds that sing,
	A hundred years to come?
The flowers that now in beauty spring
	A hundred years to	come?
The rosy lip, the lofty brow.
The heart that beats so gaily now.
Oh, where will be Love's beaming eye,
Joy's pleasant smiles and sorrow's sigh,	
	A hundred years to come?

Who’ll throng for gold this crowded street. 
	A hundred years to come?
Who’ll tread yon church with willing feet.
	A hundred years to come?
Pale trembling age, and fiery youth,
And childhood with its heart of truth.
The rich, the poor, on land and sea—
Where will the mighty millions be.
	A hundred years to come?

We all within our graves shall sleep,
	A hundred years to come?
No living soul for us will weep.	
	A hundred years to come?
But other men our lands will till,
And others, then, our streets will fill,
While other birds will sing as gay,
As bright the sunshine as today,
A hundred years to come? 
						The Advance.


[Column 1]
SCHOOLS OF MUSIC.
*	*	*
	Among the Greeks we first know of music as
connected with their dances; the dance regulat-
ing the rhythm of the accompanying music
[Column 2]
and poetry. From these semi-barbaric religious-
services the singing came into possession of the
early Christians; its character became changed,
and finally we have it developed into the in-
comparable masterpieces of the early Italian
church. It grew side by side with its sister
art of painting, which was also fostered by the
church, and one has a definite idea of its rela-
tive place in musical history when viewing the
many beautiful works of great Italian painters
of that time; the celebrated Madonnas and 
altar pieces of Titjens, Correggio, Guido, and
others. And when, later, the reformation
came, making war against prevailing prin-
ciples, and setting up newer and more liberal
principles in place of those already existing;
then, too, music effected the same chauges,
and musical religious art reached its highest
revelation in Bach and Handel.
	But before going into Germany, which im-
mediately becomes necessary in order to dis-
cuss the more modern music, allow me a word
concerning Italian opera, the same Italian
opera about which we hear so much even nowa-
days. Let me quote the spirit of certain re-
marks by one of the clearest art critics of our
century. He says, in effect, “that after the
decline of the old, pure church music in Italy,
such as was heard in the time of Palestrina,
the introduction and development of operatic
nelody was a lapse into Paganism, and that
this same Italian operatic music, so far as any
artistic fitness or connection of words and music
is concerned, has erected such a miserable
temporary structure that the cultured musician
of to-day stands in sorrowful amazement before
this petty and childish art form, the narrow
boundaries of which condemn the greatest
genius among composers to a merely heartless
and formal conventionality.” No other task
was set before the composer than to write a
number of popular airs for the special voices
of the popular singers' of the hour. The
Italian opera consists of certain conventional
forms—a solo for the prima donna, a duet, a
trio, then a chorus, then a ballet; all equally
good from an artistic stand-point, and all
equally amusing to a volatile, impulsive, and
excitable populace. There have been many
operas from the later Italian composers which
have contained wonderfully pretty, taking airs,
and which have been extremely popular, but,
generally speaking, Italian opera has little to
do with the history of real art.
	And now, leaving the frivolities of the
Italian opera, let us go north into Germany,
for there it was that musical art received its
strongest impulses, and achieved its greatest
triumphs. It was there that the inexorable laws
and dogmas which bound and fettered musical
composition were taken up, expanded, enlarged
and infused with spirit and beauty of treat-
ment, giving us what is now recognized as the
German classics. Bach, Handel, Hayden, and
Mozart are generally conceded to be the types
of this school. Bach and Handel have already
been mentioned as the culmination of the re-
formatory,religious element in music. Hayden
developed the sonata and the symphony forms;
wrote “The Seasons,” “The Creation,” and
numerous orchestral and piano compositions,
complete in form, but without any of that
descriptive coloring which distinguishes the
later music. It was Mozart who took the
Italian opera, scanty in form and of conven-
tional structure, though it had reached a sen-
suous brilliancy in the mouths of talented
singers, and gave it its highest character
through German instrumentation and treat-
ment.
	I shall not attempt to give any extended
definition of the word “classical." It should
mean “first-rate,” standard, but its ordinary
use is for those compositions, great and beauti-
ful as they are, which were modeled, measured
and exhibited only according to old Latinized


rules and formalities of expression. Many in
hearing the word ‘'classical’' immediately think
of the work referred to as dry, and say they
don’t like classical music, and indeed, it is
difficult enough to interest even a musical
student with the symmetrical and constructive
beauties of classical compositions. Then be-
sides, we have in most cases only that very im-
perfect and unsatisfactory instrument, the
piano, for our interpreting means; and the old
masters wrote their formal sounds for weak in-
struments, compared to the heavy, noisy in-
struments we now have at our disposal. Most
of their piano music sounds hollow, tinkling,
and antiquated; although we might see in these
old sonatas artistic finish of form, beautiful
periods properly balanced, and a delicate sense
of form and formality. However, these men
in their compositions were so convinced of the
indispensableness of order and exact rule that
their fancy was always under the dominion of
those laws, even in their boldest flights of
originality.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE MOUSE IN THE PANTRY.
	An old man used to say to his grand-
daughter, when she was out of temper or
naughty in any way, “Mary, Mary, take care;
there’s a mouse in the pantry.” She often
would cease crying at this and stand
wondering to herself what he meant. She
often ran to the pantry to see if there really
was a mouse in the trap, but she never found
one. One day she said: “Grand-father, I don’t
know what you mean, I haven’t a pantry, and
there are no mice in mother’s because I have
looked so often.” He smiled and said: “Come,
and I'll tell you what I mean. Your heart,
Mary, is the pantry; the little sins are the mice
that get in and nibble away all the good, and
that makes you sometimes cross and peevish,
and fretful. To keep them out you must set
a trap—the trap of watchfulness.—Woman
and Home.


The death of two great literary lights like
Martin Farquhar Tupper and Robert Browning
so near each other leaves, Tennyson almost alone
in the field of English poetical fame. Tennyson
was born the same year as Tupper, 1810, and
Browning in 1812.


LUCY WEBB HAYES ASSOCIATION.

Mrs. E. B. Wells: 
						Washington, D. C.
						     Nov. 19. 1889.
My Dear Madam!
	The Woman's National Press Association Sept.
6th, 1889 carried the following motion:—Resolved
that we inaugurate a plan to erect a statue of 
Lucy Webb Hayes in this city—to further this
movement they called a public meeting of all
the woman’s organizations in the city. Discus-
sion has evolved and elaborated the plan into a
temple with a large hall for conventions, smaller
rooms for committees, clubs, etc. niches for
statuary or an art gallery where busts and por-
traits of great women could be placed, with a
drinking fountain and statue of Mrs. Hayes in
front of the building. The following committee
has been elected to correspond with prominent
women concerning a National Organization. Miss
Carrie Harrison, Miss Clara Barton, Mrs. Bishop
J. F. Hurst, Mrs. E. M. S. Marble, Mrs. D. S.
McKnight, Mrs. Annie E. Bovee, Mrs. Sarah D.
Le. Fetra, Mrs. Albertine S. Odell, Mrs. Sen. H.
M. Teller, Mrs. Dr. T. S. Hamlin, Mrs. E. A. V.
Anderson, Dr. Clara Bliss Hinds, representing
the Red Cross, Home and Foreign Missionary
Societies, W. C. T. U. Woman's Relief Corps.
G. A. R. Woman's National Press Association


and the Woman’s National Suffrage Association
We purpose having five thousand Charter Mem-
bers the same to elect the National Officers.
	The enclosed card filled and returned to the
secretary with five dollars will entitle you to a
Charter Membership Certificate by return mail.
Upon the cooperation of the women of the
country depends the success of this attempt to
organize the first Woman’s Monument Associa-
tion in America.
			Respectfully,
						Carrie Harrison.
						Chairman,
Dr. Clara Bliss Hinds.
1331 N. St. 				Secretary,


A VOICE FROM MESA CITY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few items from this arid region
might possibly be interesting to your numerous
readers, I take the liberty to jot down a few, that
you may know that we are not quite used up by
the broiling weather we have experienced the
past summer. We are now enjoying most lovely
weather, and were it not for the frost which
visited us the beginning of November leaving the
footprints upon our fruit and shade trees, we
would scarcely believe that Christmas was so
near at our doors. Thanksgiving day was duly
honored by services being held in the morning
with a well arranged programme which was inter-
estingly carried out.
	But the most enjoyable affair of the season so
far and which I wish to note was our Old Folk’s
Party, which came off at the Mesa Hall the 29th
of November which was decorated beautifully, with
festoons of flowers, and evergreen, and beauti-
ful pictures, by the Y. L. A. of Mesa. It was a 
Stake affair, and all over 50 were invited, of
whatever sect or creed. Those from 50 to 60
were denoted by red ribbon, over 60 by blue, over
70 by white, and over 80 by gold color, the red
predominated.
	At 1 p. m. they all gathered with baskets of 
picnic, which was taken care of by a committee
appointed. Opened by prayer, and singing: Oh
my Father; by the entire company, after which
a very fine programme was carried out, consisting
of songs, recitations and speeches. Henry
Brizzee gave a brief sketch of the Mormon
battalion, their journeys and hardships. Brother
Charles Harper on the Mormon Exodus from
Nauvoo to Salt Lake, short spicy speeches
by C. I. Robinson, H. Rogers, C. R Hakes, M.
A. Hakes, interspersed with songs and recita-
tions occupied the time until 5 p. m. when all
felt like enjoying their picnic which was indeed
a very sociable enjoyable time. Dancing was
next in order. The floor was soon cleared, and
dancing commenced, which was kept up inter-
spersed with songs and recitations, until 10 p. m.
when all separated with many good wishes for 
each others welfare and for many happy returns
of the day; great credit is due to the committee
and young ladies for the able, and energetic
manner in which it was carried out. 
	Our R. S, building is looming up rapidly. We
hope to have it completed by New Year's day.
when a good dinner in the hall New Year's is
promised those engaged in erecting it, and the
consequence is, they are exerting themselves to
the utmost to have it completed. It is of brick,
size 20 by 40, feet 10 feet to be partitioned off for
a storage room leaving the main room 26 by 30
which is ample room for our society as it at
present exists. We feel quite elated at the pros-
pect of having a Hall of our own as we have
suffered great inconvenience in getting suitable
places to hold our meetings in.
	Ever praying for the success of the little paper


so ably conducted.  I am as every our friend and
sister.
								SARAH.


VALUABLE SOUVENIRS from Mormon
		       —Hill Genuine specimens of
Stone or Wood, 25c. Fine Photo, of Hill and spot
where the Golden Bible was found, 50c. Auto-
raph of Major Gilbert, who printed the first
Mormon Bible, 25c. Elegant Photograph of
Major Gilbert with Autograph Letter, 50c. ALL
of the above, $1. Guaranteed genuine. Send at
once. AGENTS WANTED.
	MORMON HILL EXCAVATION CO.,
				Main Office, PALMYRA, N. Y.

UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS,     J. V. PARKER,
City Pass. Agt.	Div. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 
VOL. 18		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1890. 		No. 15.


CONTENTS.
	Once a Year or a Christmas Wish, by Annie
M. P.—National American W. S. A.—W. S. A.
Organizations.—Notes and News.
	Editorial: Official Declaration. — Bishop
Whitney’s Poems.—In Memoriam.—Christmas
Thoughts, by Phebe C. Young.
	Poetry: New Year Resolve, by Amelia
White Farnsworth.—A Glance Backward, by
E. B. W.


NEW YEAR RESOLVE.

The dear old year has lived his time,
	His locks are changed to white,
His youthful days have long since passed,
	He'll close his eyes tonight.
To-morrow morn at early dawn
	New Year will take his place,
And twelve short months of precious time
	Will end his earthly race.

Yet in that time much can be done
	Of evil and of right.
Sorrow and pain may have their sway,
	As well as joy and light.
Sweet fragrant flowers of love and peace
	By beds of thorns may grow,
Some homes with happiness be filled,
	Others, with care and woe.

I sometimes ask if this is just,
	'Tis answered God knows best,
And they who patiently submit
	Will be among His blest.
Then let us all this title seek,
	And humbly bear our part,
Help other's, life's drear storm to meet,
	And cheer the lonely heart.

We'll gladly welcome New Year's morn
	With firm resolve of right,
And spend each leisure hour therein
	With heart, and brain, and might;
In doing all the good we can,
	By making sad hearts bright,
In scattering rays of sunshine
	Some darkened home to light.

Yes, with a zeal of womanhood
	We'll wave the flag of peace.
We'll pray for God to calm the storm,
	Our prisoned friends release.
We'll bless the sick in every home,
	The erring one we'll guide,
We'll help the weaker ones to row
	Their Life Bark down the tide.

Then with joy we'll fondly welcome
	The year's last setting sun;
As with pride we well remember
	The great work he has done.
How he's scattered gems of wisdom,
	Blessings to all has meeted.
Together with the good we've done
	Since his first rays we greeted,
			AMELIA WHITE FARNSWORTH.


a nice present on the tree, I wonder what it
will be, O I think I know what Fred will
give me, a wedding ring but you’ll not need
one for a long time yet said Hess, Harry will
be till next Christmas making up his mind.”
She said this with a merry laugh, which
showed her dimples.
	December 25th 1841.  The tables were set
in the dining hall, the fenders bright, and a fire
made of wood in the grate, every thing neat
and in order, and nothing lacking to make a
merry Christmas.
	Knock, knock, at the hall door indicated
that the visitors were coming to partake of
the hospitality of the good old folks at the
mansion.  While peals of laughter were heard
in the hall as each visitor entered the parlor.
There hung Tom in effigy in the tree look-
ing so natural that the girls thought it was
really himself up there.  He had placed the
tree in a nook and stood the figure face out,
standing tall as life, he was the first up and
hid to see what effect it would have on the
girls when they went in.  He had not long
to wait as they were the next up to see what
presents were there for them.  Lucia and
Hessie made such a racket with their laughter
and exclaiming “there’s Tom in the tree,”
their noise brought the old folks.  They
went around to shake him and saw his bit of
fun, pa and ma were quite delighted with the
surprise.  Tom chuckled at his success.  Mrs.
Grover stepped into her sitting room and
placed her things of industry on the tree.
They all saw their presents and were delighted
Tom came out of his hiding place and found
his socks, when he was pleased he made rhymes
and expressed himself. “Ar’n’t they nice.”
		The old ones are the worse for wear
		And so I've got another pair.
	They left the tree as it was found, Mamie
the cook came in for her share of presents
and fun, and the dog Rover got a silver
collar a present from Tom.  The bride looked
lovely in her white satin dress, white slippers
and a white rose in her curls; her dress was
made plain, and she looked like the nymph
of the woods.  The groom looked all smiles
and happiness itself.
	When the ceremony was performed, and
now kiss your wife, she looked into his face
and with a smile said “my dear Fred I have
now got my Christmas wish I wished for you:
at this moment a gentle timid knock was
heard at the door, and Tom led in from the
cold without a waif, a poor boy who said “I
am hungry give me a piece of bread, I have
no home.” The tender-hearted Lucia took the
boy’s hand and led him to her pa “please take
him for your adopted son, this is my
Christmas wish, sister’s and mine have
both come to pass."
					ANNIE M. P.
Nov. 25th, 1889.


[Column 1]
ONCE A YEAR OR A CHRISTMAS
WISH.
	“My Dear Sister, Christmas only comes
once a year and it is only two weeks that we
have to get ready, yes, Lucia and all the good
things have to be cooked up yet.”
	“Here comes Mamie the cook we will
tell her just what we want and would

[Column 2]
like her to get. It will take from now to
Christmas to cook it all. I will tell her
what to do. Ma wont care.” “No, Hessie I am
the oldest and this is my right. But we will
leave it to the cook which of us shall order
the dinner.” Mamie hears the girls rattling
away about the Christmas dinner. “I am going
to settle this myself,” the cook said,  as
she stept into the kitchen, where the girls
were often found busy with domestic affairs.
	“Now girls I will order: What shall it be?
turkey, a fat goose, chickens and a roast.”
	“Lucia may make the ginger cake, a loaf of
corn bread, squash pies and an English pud-
ding. Hessie the curly head shall look over
the fruit for the mince pies, pare the apples
and potatoes, seed the raisins for the pudding
and arrange the flower vases for the table. I
will bake the pork and beans.”
	“And make the Christmas cake with cream?”
The girls clapt their hands with glee and said
they would abide Mamie’s decision.
	Pa and ma were aged people and these two
sisters were ever ready to assist when needed.
They had plenty and were not too proud to
work in the kitchen.
	They were educated and talented. Lucia
the eldest was very graceful in form and man-
ners and different in complexion from the
younger sister, Hessie; she had deep blue eyes,
long eye lashes, rosy cheeks, light hair that
curled in ringlets around a forehead white
and fair, lips that parted with a smile that
brought a dimple in each cheek, a rounded
form and not as tall as her sister, her voice
was like the nightingale full of music and
glee.
	No one could feel sad when they heard her
cheery voice ringing through the old mansion
in merry tones she gladdened the hearts of the
household that numbered but six. There was
no son, the only children were the two girls.
The eldest of the two was more sedate, her
eyes were dark brown and dreamy, her hair
was almost the same color of a glossy tint and
luxuriant, mild and thoughtful in temperament
she had a care for every one’s comfort and
happiness. It was her greatest delight to
make others happy and would forgo her own
to bestow it upon others whom she loved
dearly. Her parents were the first objects for
her to please, obey and make happy, she
studied their every want, she realized they
were in advanced age, she sought to spare
them a care of anxiety, and was ever ready
to lend a helping hand to each of her parents.
They loved and doted on their daughters,
and looked upon them as jewels of God's
choicest gifts, they knew no difference in their
goodness. The household looked up to Luce
as she was called when things were to be
looked after, she could answer to all their
wants as she knew where every thing about
the house was. She had great devotion for
her sister Hess and would watch over her
with the greatest solicitude, a mother could
not express more anxiety than she. These
two sisters could not be parted they would
always be seen together with the dog Rover
following, they would take their strolls at twi-
light arm in arm and every little shrub would
have an interest for them as they gathered
them up to decorate their home. The ever-
green, hemlock and pine which grew in great
abundance, they gathered to make home
bright and cheerful. They were taking their

[Column 3]
usual walk one afternoon discussing the Christ-
mas tree and dinner thus.
	“Dear Hess, we will hang the tree with
garlands, we will take the hemlock, pine and
evergreens and weave them into wreaths and
twine them around the tree intermix them
with the house flowers, I think we can spare
some. We can make artificials also and sur-
prise pa and ma will this not be a grand idea?”
Hessie drank in all that her sister said and
gathered up all that her arms would hold.
“Dear sister Lucia how I wish we had a
brother he would help us now would he not?
and then Christmas would go off so much
more pleasant; then if he was a jolly brother
he would come flying in with some nice present
on Christmas morning for us all, and Oh, how
well we would enjoy the dinner, I know it
would make pa and ma more happy to have
a son, he could help pa so much, we are girls
and can’t do like a brother could. I think he
would be good, don’t you sister?”
	“O, yes Hessie pa and ma are so good they
could not have a bad child. I wonder why
they did not have a son as well as daughters.
The Lord does all things best. Let us wish
for a brother on Christmas! “All right.”
“Now you wish Hess and so will I and we
will see which one gets it. I’ll get the sticks 
you hold them and I will draw; the one that
gets the short one gets her wish. Here goes.”
“I have it.” “Let’s try again, once more for
grace, Luce all right, here goes I have it. We
will both get our wish but we will keep it a
secret until Christmas.”
	As they were returning to the house they
met the hired man Tom. “Well girls how
now, gathering up for the Christmas tree
ar’n’t you.” “Yes, Tom and you have got
to do your part, get the tree; we want a very
nice large one, we expect to decorate it with
our handiwork. Hess and I.” “Yes girls I
am going to have a finger in the pie and you
may be sure it will be a fine one, I always
try to please the lasses.
		“To make them rememberme.
		So hang me up on the Christmas ree."
	“Oh Tom you are always full of merriment
how could we?” “Easy enough I intend to
get it large enough to crawl up to the top
branch for a Christmas present.” “And you
would make a nice one you are always so
obliging and good natured, “was Hessie’s re-
ply.” “But I am not as good as little curly
head” speaking through his nose in the
Yankee style. Tom was a favorite with all,
he had been an old standby for years, and as
the old gentleman was feeble this faithful old
steward looked after out door concerns with
great trust and care.
	Tom passed along thinking of the good
times he had enjoyed in this happy family
during the holidays, he was always remem-
bered with the rest of the family. Mr. and
Mrs. Grover were two old people highly re-
spected for their hospitality and marked kind-
ness to their hired help. The old gentleman
when riding out on his white horse, would go
provided with pennies in his pocket to throw
out to the children and they would scramble
around to gather them up. The children all
loved him for his kindness to them and they
treated him with great respect. He would
ride away saying to himself, “these are fine
noble boys, I wish I had been blest with


just one boy, but then my girls are so good
I ought to be satisfied, some day I may have
a son-in-law and this will bring things around
all right.”
	His wife Mrs. Grover was a kind hearted
good woman; she loved her husband, was a
devoted wife she studied his every wish and
spent her most happy hours in his society,
they had lived happily for a great many
years, her disposition in youth was like her
daughter Hessie, volatile, full of mirth and
gladness. William Grover first met her at a
Christmas dinner, his family lived near neigh-
bors to her’s and were invited there on that
festive occasion, and afterwards he became her
suitor. They were not married for several
years after, as he went abroad to be educated,
his parents were well to do and left him a
nice little fortune at their death; he made
good use of what his father left. They al-
ways had plenty and to spare. The fireside
was always bright and cheerful. That Christ-
mas dinner was often cited to, as an omen
of good luck to the happy pair, and now as
the day was not far off the theme of love
that animated their hearts at that first Christ-
mas meeting seemed to awaken afresh in their
minds, that love in well balanced minds will
never die out, but grow stronger as fleeting
time goes by, and then beyond the grave, it
lives where endless joys and bliss in perfect life
will neverend.
	The girls had been kept at boarding school
from the time they were old enough to leave
home and attend, they were quite proficient
in their studies. Lucia was a fine performer
on the piano with her tapering fingers she
would run over the keys with great dexterity.
Then Hessie’s voice with Lucia’s accompani-
ment was music itself, so sweet and soft, they
would sing together, and the listener would
be enrapt. It was vacation and the girls were
at home through the holidays. They loved
their home it was to them a paradise, and
when from school the house was enlivened by
their merrie chat and presence. But they real-
ized the need of knowledge and a finished
education and they were determiued to mas-
ter every branch. They had no suitors at
this present time, the young men of the vil-
lage looked on them as being a little higher
up than they could reach, yet they would
speak of them with great respect and defer-
ence. The girls were untrammeled, contented
and happy, they knew no reverse of fortune,
that brings clouds and discontent,. But theirs
was a favored and happy life.
	“Now Hess this may be our last stroll to
the woods,” said Lucia as they walked toward
the house with the evergreens quite tired out.
“Now sister,’' said Hessie “what shall we do
with these,” holding up her arms. “We will
take them to the cook’s room and make them
up for the tree,” away they go to her room.
“Here we come Mamie with our arms full
and we want you to help us and say nothing
to pa and ma, we will make the tree a sur-
prise to them, we can come here an hour or
two and get it quite ready and they will think
we are helping with the dinner.” The cook
was one with the girls to have a little fun,
and she liked to indulge them when at home.
The cook had been in the family almost as
long as the steward and seemed like one of the
family.
	No one could prevail on her to leave the
good old folks, she had a room to herself and
rather did as she pleased. She was a model
housekeeper and could not be beat in cook-
ing. The girls when at home were more in
the kitchen than the mother and things went
on all right under Mamie’s supervision, so they
were left to her care. And while the girls
tripped away to let their mother know they
had come, Mamie laid the different greens
on papers and soliloquized to herself. “The

[Column 2]
dear girls, I would do any thing for their
pleasure and gratification. They are such
sweet-tempered and good girls.” At that
moment Tom knocked at the door and
came in. “The girls say I am to bring the
tree right in here and be mum and then spirit
it away Christmas, from here to the parlor.”
“Yes, Tom that is just what you may do,
there is a closet in the hall, we will dress it
up and put it there and you can get up early
in the morning and slip it in the parlor.”
“All right Mamie.”	Now a new idea flashed
across Tom’s mind as he strode away. “Dress
it up he said to himself, I am going to have
a hand in dressing up the tree I will put my
coat around, stuff my pants, stuff a head and
make them think it is me. I told the girls I
would hang myself up, in it, ha, ho, won’t they
laugh, come Christmas come.”
	“And I’ll have some fun.” He was a great
rhymer and always jolly.
			But I must wait
			And kiss my Kate.
	The house was a rustic old-fashioned one
set well back from the road, with long rows of
ornamental trees on either side which made a
nice shade in the summer up a smooth
garveled walk, at the end was an old wicket
gate, as you passed through this a garden dis-
playing good taste, well laid out met your
view, although at this season of the year few
flowers were in bloom, the summer ones were
covered to preserve them from the frost and
getting winter killed.
	The lawn was still green and the fountain
sending forth its spray, the woodbine, myrtle
and ivy festooned around the pillars of the
old fashioned porch and windows. The front
door steps were hewn stone and led up to the
main entrance. The front door was large and
massive with small narrow windows at the
sides. The doors folded back into a large
and spacious hall which was lighted with a
chandelier as you entered, the old fashioned
custom was observed, if a gentleman he set
his hat and gloves on the table took off his
overcoat and overshoes in the hall, if a lady,
she left her wraps, and the host or hostess
came forward to receive and welcome them.
The parlor was large, the furniture was ele-
gant rich and costly, the finest velvet covered
the chairs and sofa; over a large old time fire
place with grate and fenders, set vases filled
with flowers that bloomed late, intermixed
with green, which the girls delighted to keep
fresh and beautiful. The greatest feature of
the room was the likenesses, father and
mother hung side by side. Hessie’s hung by
her mother’s and the faces looked so much
alike, you could but tell the difference by the
age, Lucia’s was beside her father, she re-
sembled him more than her mother. There
had been no pains spared, no expense with-
held to make this home a happy one and to
perpetuate that satisfaction that should the
dear old parents pass away, their dear children
could look upon their counterpart, or should
the girls be taken away by a divine Providence
their features were left on canvas and would
not be so easily forgotten. When you gazed
upon the portrait of the youngest it seemed as
though her lips would part to speak, to bring
the dimples in her cheeks with a smile, so like
was she taken  The artest was an expert and
could bring nature to his command, he was
master of his art and could bring it into
requisition; such the father had sought to take
his charming daughters, and his wife and
his own.
	The whole house was in keeping with the
parlor. The sitting room was neatly furnished
to make it comfortable, easy chairs and
lounges, windows large to emit the rays of the
glorious sun and light up its already cheer-
ful aspect for everything had been done with
taste and good judgment to make this room

[Column 3]
cheerful. Here Delia as William called his
dear old lady, liked to sit always busy with
her needle. The whole appearance of the
room was homelike and was adorned with her
needle work which made it bright and cozy.
The bed spread, curtains, chairs and lounges
were covered with tidies by her deft fingers.
And now as Christmas was drawing near, she
was more busy than ever. Although they
had means at their command she made it a
rule to make some articles of her own
work, a present to each one of the family.
The steward and cook included. Tom must
have a necktie, a pair of socks, marked to be-
sure, “ar’n’t they nice” he would say. He
would make rhymes when he was pleased, this
was his verse the last Christmas.
		"Socks for me, a necktie too
		What they want, I'll always do.”
	The cook must be remembered too, a pocket
handkerchief needle worked around the edge,
and father must have a white shirt worked
very neatly. The girls must have white
aprons with pockets and tucks.
	The extra cooking for Christmas was going
on finely, Mamie was in the kitchen prepar-
ing the mince for the pies, as it must stand
some time she said to be good to get pickeled,
or the pies would taste flat and insipid, she
prided herself on making good mince pie, and
fixing up things to the taste. “Hess you may
seed the raisins, pare the apples and grind the
spices, I will chop the meat and get it all
ready to mix together and then it can stand
over a week, I can bake all the pies in the
oven at once the middle of next week; the
bread and cake next baking. Tom may kill
the turkey, goose and chicks, and I will pick
off their feathers when they are hung up,
they will freeze stiff this weather as the air
has changed since we talked together about
the coming Christmas.”
	The cook kept her hands busy and her
tongue too sometimes on such occasions as
this one. Tom looked in as he was passing by
the door he said “girls when shall I fetch the
tree?” “any time you like” said the cook “only
give us time to dress it, two days before
Christmas that will do.” “Take it to your
room shall I?” “Yes Tom, now go about
your business in double quick time and kill
the fowls for me to dress,” away he went say-
ing he would have a hand in dressing.
	There was a boarding house kept in the
village by a maiden lady of great respecta-
bility, and there were two gentleman boarders
that had come in town of late; they were
college chums and one of the two was a
nephew to the lady that kept the house. He
was a young man of high standing in society
finely built about six feet in hight, dark hair
and complexion gentlemanly in bearing, no-
bility shone out in every act and word. His
companion was of a different cast in face and
figure; he was honesty itself with a good
heart and obliging manners, not so much the
fine gentleman with polished airs, but truth-
ful and good, there could not have been a
greater contrast between two individuals, one
was light and delicate in constitution fair skin,
a curly, sandy beard. Both were of good re-
spectable parentage. The nephew had come
to make a short stay with his aunt, and had
brought his friend with him to spend the
holidays and have a change from a city life.
Fred Stanley was the name of the lady’s
nephew, Harry Hasting the name of the other.
“Now Harry said Fred as they sat together in
their neat little room cozy enough it was too,
a cheerful fire blazing away on the hearth.
“How shall we make our acquaintance with
those nymphs of the woods, we heard chatting
away about Christmas, I would give my whole
fortune to get her for a wife she is such a
fairy, what a model of health and beauty, she
is fair as a lily, and oh what a voice its sweet


[Column 1]
notes still ring in my ears and awakens a
tender feeling."
	Stanley was at an age when he thought of 
marrying and settling down in life, he was
quite a home body and longed for that day to
come, he was not much of a rover and now as
he had seen and heard sweet Hessie, although
a silent spectator, his whole mind was bent on
making her acquaintance. "Dead in love,"
said Harry who was not so hasty in making
up his miud to settle down in life, he did not
so much fancy Fred's choice although he
thought the curly headed girl very pretty, no
one could think otherwise.
	But Harry had his mind bent toward the
other sister, her dark glossy hair, dreamy eyes,
and graceful figure made a greater impression
upon him than he was willing to admit of to
Fred. But he was determined like his friend
to get acquainted. They had frequently met
Tom the steward as they were out sight seeing,
the country village had new charms for the
two gentlemen as not far distant lived the
ones they had eaves-dropped and admired.
They would have made themselves known
then at once, but delicacy forbade, they were
truly gentlemen in action and sentiment, they
would not accost two young ladies alone with-
out an introduction; this would have been con-
sidered impolite, uncivil, rash in those days,
for a gentleman to speak to a lady without a
former acquaintance. In days gone by
modesty was the safeguard of virtue, boldness
paves the way to ruin. "Say Fred let us go
over to the mansion and have a chat with
the steward we may be able to get him to
plead our cause." "all right Harry, just as
you say," too well pleased with the opportu-
nity now offered, so they walked along toward
the house, Tom was trimming up some shrub-
bery outside, and looking up, saw the two
gentlemen walking up the graveled walk, Tom
gave them a welcome bow and passed the
compliments of the day. They were soon in
deep conversation, Tom bowing assent to their
inquiries. He invited them to go to the house
but they declined,  and walked away. "I
think Harry we have got the steward favorably
impressed and he will be our vicegerent, and
we will get acquainted with the inmates, in-
side of those old rustic boards. If so it will
make us the happiest of lovers." Tom was
quite taken np with the gentlemen and after
they left went on talking to himself after this
strain. "Now the tree is to be a surprise and
I am to make another by getting the girls to
come into the garden to gather some late
flowers for their vases and the young gentle
men will happen along and I will introduce
them to the girls they must not live old maids,
they are too nice for that, ar'n't they? and
then the old gentleman will be so pleased with
a son-in-law, that tall one has a fine cast to
make one if it takes right I must not count
up things too fast. But wait at the garden
gate." Tom was talking to himself all this
time.
	The Grovers were intending to invite some
of their near neighbors, so they were cooking
up enough, a great deal more than their
family could possibly consume, some would be
left over for New Year's and there would not 
have to be so much cooking done on that day.
The cook would say I have mince, squash
pies and cake enough ahead for the next
holiday, even if there should be a wedding,
that cake is good enough for the occasion,
little thinking her words might come true.
	The weather would not admit of the girls
going out much, as the change had made it a
great deal colder and it was quite stormy,
some snow falling but not sufficient for sleigh-
riding which was much enjoyed by the young
folks. But they expected one by Christmas,
so they were more confined to the house and
did not learn a great deal about the folks in

[Column 2]
the village. They had heard about the two
young men at the hoarding house but that
was all they knew about them. Mrs. Grover
was intending to invite Miss Stanley the aunt
and some others. The girls were very busy
when they were not in the kitchen helping
the cook, they were working on the trimmings
for the Christmas tree in the cook’s room. This
labor engrossed all their thoughts except some
moments they spared to see if pa or ma
wanted their service to do an errand, or save
them steps if they wanted any thing. Ma
thought they were busy in the kitchen, and
knew nothing about the tree they were spend-
ing so much labor on with wreaths of ever-
green and paper flowers, here and there a
natural one some white and some variegated.
They were so much taken up with all these
things they had not thought of their Christ-
mas wish expressed when they took their last
stroll to the woods and gathered their ever
greens for the Christmrs tree, the vases and
to hang in festoons about the house, and they
little thought that other ears heard and were
near by to make a wish that might be fulfilled;
such is behind the curtain of time and our
knowledge of future events.
	Tom, and the old gentleman were straight-
ening up things around the outside of the
house, the leaves had to be gathered off the
grass plat, the winter flowers tied up in
bunches, the runners kept in their places and
the walks cleaned up, everything had to be
kept in order. The old gentleman took his
daily walk about the premises to see that
nothing was neglected, though he had but
little occasion as the steward kept things very
orderly. But Mr. Grover would remark, “if
the owner did not show an interest in his
property and concerns he could not expect it
of his hired help and if he looked after things
it would be an incentive to Tom to do the
same.” And in this course of life, laid the
great secret to having faithful help. “Now
Tom, I see no occasion lor finding fault with
any thing you have the charge of you have
done as well as I could have done myself, but
you know Tom, I have always looked after
things, not because I think yon cannot be
trusted or are neglectful.” Mr. Grover al-
ways had a kind word for his faithful steward,
he loved his employer and would do any thing
to please him, as he had acted like a father
and been kind.
	Tom saw the young men coming at the end
of the graveled walk, and to himself as they
approached nearer. “Now” thought Tom “the
most proper thing for me to do is to introduce
them first to the father;” as the gate was open
to carry out the rubbish, they walked in.
The girls had just stepped out upon the porch
wondering who the strangers were, as Tom had
invited them to come for the flowers; he had
clipped some before he tied them up in
bunches. As the young men stood facing
the two, Tom introduced them, “Mr. Grover,
this is Mr. Stanley, and Mr. Hasting two
young gentlemen that are stopping at the
boarding house this one, looking at Fred, is
Miss Stanley’s nephew, I have met them be-
fore and invited them in to see the garden.”
	Mr. Grover extended his hand and gave
each a hearty shake and cordially invited
them in to the house. He was a man of great
sociability, and was very courteous to strangers.
The girls had gone back to the parlor, think-
ing the strangers would soon leave, and they
could go to the garden and get the flowers; as
they wanted to put fresh ones in the vases,
they had on their every day suits but they
were neatly fitting dresses; they wore with
them a little narrow edge of needle work
around the neck and sleeves, white aprons
low slippers, their hair combed neatly back
from their foreheads. Hessie showing one of
marble whiteness as loose cirls hung about it,

[Column 3]
her lips just parting with a smile to show two
dimples one in each cheek, their eyes beamed
with happiness and joy, their cheeks were
flushed with rosy tints of health. They had
been busy at work through the forepart of
the day to execute their designs for the an-
ticipated coming Christmas day. As the
gentlemen walked into the parlor Mr. Grover
said “My daughters Mr. Stanley, Mr. Hast-
ing. Be seated gentlemen.” as the girls set
chairs. They made their stay short, but in-
teresting, as they had traveled a great deal and
had learned the ways of the world by strict
observation of men and things, Hessie’s eyes
dropped as she met those of Fred, and the
color of her cheek was heightened as he would
look at her, then at her likeness and her
mother’s, “Miss Grover you do look so much
like your mother’s likeness, and your own is
so life like, your sister’s too is very natural.
The artist knew how to use his pencil he
said “yes, she said father employed the best
one he could hear of he was first class, the
price was not questioned, father was so well
satisfied.” Harry and Lucia kept up a lively
conversation until the hour arrived to leave
which was very reluctantly done. The ladies
invited the gentlemen to call again, and they
took their leave. Fred was enamored with that
visit and lost that night’s sleep and many
more before he could make up his mind to
ask his lady love in marriage.
	Harry took a great liking to Lucia her
modest genteel ways, her shining luxuriant
hair, her dreamy eyes and lady like appear-
ance, had won his admiration but he had a
way of hiding his feelings and not letting
them be known, he could dissemble in such
matters but his heart was true and when once
set on an object it could not change, he loved
an object for its worth and goodness, it was
not fictitious but real, he saw in the older
sister virtues that led her to self denial her
happiness consisted in making others so, this
he observed the little time he had been in
her society and this was the opinion he formed
of her character that day in the woods. She
had also become deeply interested in him, she
believed him to be very honorable and upright.
And as the girls bad had no suitors prior to
this it was very natural that they should he
favorably inclined toward the strangers.
	Their hearts had gone cut in unison to
these two visitors. “Dear sister, we must re-
turn to our task said Lucia as they sat by
the pleasant fire grate in the parlor think-
ing of the event ot the day, “I am afraid
those two chaps nave put things out of our
minds that we ought to be attending to in
cook’s room and kitchen,” “I am sure they
have out of mine, (said Hessie) what a fine
form, what a carriage he has, meaning Fred,
nobility is in every movement,” Oh, what
sparkling eyes what an intellect, and oh, my
heart Luce,” placing her hands over it,
“and if it aches said her sister you must
think no more of these strangers,” feeling a
solicitude for her sister, here comes Mamie
“Well girls what keeps you away so long, we
must be getting things ready and fix things
up in grand style as your pa has sent Tom
around to the boarding house to invite Miss
Stanley her nephew and his friend and I
don’t know how many more.” The cook feel-
ing the great responsibility wanted the girl’s
help, this news gave them an impetus and
away they went to the kitchen.	
	The young men on their homeward march
discussed their good fortune in making the
girls acquaintance and the old gentleman,
they admired his hospitality, “that charmer
curly head, Harry, has made me think what
I dare not say, did you ever feel that way
Harry when you were in the company of the.
		[Continued on page 118.]


A CHRISTMAS WISH.

[Continued from page 115.]

other sex?" he would not admit that he did,
although he knew it was so he had the tact
to keep it to himself. But Fred being of a
more open, talkative disposition he would
out with his feelings. "Tomorrow we will
walk around to the mansion again, I am going
to ask the father for his daughter, that is, if
I can pluck up courage enough," "Well
Fred I hope you don't ask him for Miss Luco
(as I heard her called, for short I suppose,) I
want that pleasure myself." "No, Harry I
shan't bother my head about you and Luce
you can have it all your own way, the young-
est is my style, "the nymph of the woods." As
he finished the sentence, a knock at the door
was heard. He opened it, a note was handed
to him it was the invitation to attend the
Christmas dinner at Mr. Grover's  This de-
lighted them both as they did not expect it,
Fred knew that his aunt was going, but did
not expect so great a pleasure as that they
would be among the bidden guests. The next
day they paid another visit to their sweet
hearts, they were kindly received and made
welcome, they were now on familiar terms
with the family. Fred walked out to have a
conversation with Mr. Grover as he was
generally with Tom giving orders or looking
after things. Fred had to be couragous at
this time, he was determined to know if he
would be accepted as a son-in-law, he came 
nearly backing out as he saw the old gentle-
man coming toward him and thought he
would make some remark about the weather.
Bnt no, he said to himself I'll be resolute this
time as he had tried to broach the subject be-
fore. It seemed as though Mr. Grover
anticipated the young man's thoughts and
accosted him with such kindness that Fred
took fresh courage and said. "Mr. Grover
you had once to ask" Yes, yes, young man
(not waiting the end of the sentence,) you
wish to ask me for my daughter in marriage."
"That is just it, but it was hard work to ex-
press myself."


Fred said their acquaintance had been
rather short but he believed he knew his mind
as well now as he would a year hence, (said
he, I love your daughter Hess and it will be
the study of my life to make her happy and
show to you that I am sincere I thought it
the most honorable to speak to you and get
your consent first, the parents that have
raised their children to maturity ought
to have the first say about such matters.
You will be kind enough to speak to your
wife for her consent, I have not as yet spoken
to your daughter on this subject not feeling
at liberty to do so, untill I had your
approval.”
	Mr. Grover very much admired the candor,
good sense and earnestness of the young man.
He replied that if his daughter accepted his
offer, he had his consent and wished them
much joy and happiness as they walked life’s
path together. He promised he would speak
to the mother on the all-important subject.
Fred walked into the house feeling more at
ease and satisfied with himself for the course
he had taken. Tom seeing the two talking
together thought about what it might be. He
said to himself,” the Christmas tree is going to
be a surprise and we may have a wedding
and that will be another, is not he a fine look-
ing chap; master will be proud of him for a.
son-in-law and he comes around and is so
willing to help, he knows just how to get
through this life easy and that is by making
friends by helping every body.” Fred had
worked himself into the good graces of the
household. The steward and cook were often
heard speaking of his good qualities, unknown
to himself he was unassuming and would make
himself useful wherever he went. This was
natural to his nature,to lighten other’s burdens
he would lend a helping hand under all cir-
cumstances. Tom would remark to Mamie “if
Hess gets a husband she will a servant” and
this was true, as time told. Fred did not see
much of Harry as he was more common-place
than his genteel friend, he would seek Luce in
the cook’s room or in the kitchen when she
would be engaged at the work always busy em-
ployed helping Mamie. The young men made
short visits, they did not wish to be tedious
nor hinder the girls from their work, but as
they felt lonesome not being much acquainted
they liked to call at the mansion.
	The gentlemen returned to their boarding
house, they met, Miss Stanley at the door.
She mistrusted that there was a load-stone at
the farm house, where she was invited to dine
at Christmas. “Well boys” she said, “you
seem to be often out and I notice you direct
your course one certain way, I expect to be
invited to a wedding before long.”
	Feeling a little jocular. “So do I dear
Aunt,” Fred replied,“will it be, to Mr. Smith?
across the way?” She did not care to be
jested about him, as he had called a few times
of late, but did not meet with much en-
couragement from the maiden aunt. The
young men were soon closeted together in their
room.” We must buy some presents for this
Christmas occasion, Harry what will you
get to hang on the tree? “Oh, a doll of
course, for a bit of fun I suppose, what will
yours be Fred? “Oh, a wedding ring” Heigh-
he is that your intention?” “Yes, if I can get
her consent.” “You are very hasty in your
make up I have not thought of such a thing,
but I may, after the holidays.” This was like
Harry, he took things more moderate than
Fred, he was none the less in love for that
trait, in his character. But would not put
his plans in execution as quick as Fred and
he was somewhat younger too than he, and
did not see the necessity of settling down so
soon. As it was getting late they retired to
their beds to dream of love and the coming
hristmas; sleeping is sweet and balmy to th

[Column 2]
'sincere lover, he sees beauty in every object
and they whisper this is love, nothing to him
looks dreary or sad. He looks to one that
will share his fortune or his sorrows and make
a home bright and cheerful, one dear spot on
earth where he can rest and center all his
hopes, he wanders no more, his feet and mind
are stayed. He has a loving wife to bid him
welcome, prattling ones to climb upon his
knee, a happy home and many dear friends.
This is the climax of all other things. “A
home, sweet home,” so thought Fred Stanley
as he rose from his bed, refreshed and anima-
ted with such things in view.
	Fred made his toilet putting on a few extras
after dinner, as he intended to have a talk
with his nymph of the woods as he would call
Hess. He intended to go alone and not say
any thing to Harry about going this time, as
he wanted to think how he would broach the
subject or put his thoughts into words, many
times in going the distance from one house to
another he would make up sentences and then
think they were abrupt then flat or soft for
a gentleman to utter to a lady, and when he
arrived at the threshold, he knew not what
he would say. This time Mrs. Grover an-
swered the door, she very pleasantly invited
him into the parlor, he found her to be con-
versant on many subjects and topics of the
day, he admired her views and ideas with re-
gard to the education of children, she said
“they could not be too young to make good
impressions on their minds and this should be
done before evil impressions were made, for
evil ones would be like rank weeds sown in a
garden, when the good seed was sown last,
the weeds would come up first and overrun
the plants. Lay a foundation she said that
would do to build upon, also teach them re-
ligious sentiments, that they must be thank-
ful to their Heavenly Father for the preserva-
tion of their lives, their existence here on
earth, teach them of a life beyond this, that
they were created for a life of usefulness, to be
good, generous and kind to others this will
make them happy and contented with their
lot, keep infidelity out of their hearts and
minds, infidelity and doubt lead away from a
better life.”
	“There are many precious souls that go to
ruin, through the neglect of their parents, not
being properly instructed while young, when
their minds can be bent like the twig.” “My
dear lady those are my views, I can endorse
them all, I am pleased to have the opportunity
of listening to such sound sense and reason,
ing and hope I may profit by your words.”
She excused herself and called in her daughter
Hessie, as she had been told by her husband
that he wished to marry her. This met their
approval, Fred wished her to get her things
for a walk, as the sun shone, the day was more
pleasant than usual he took her arm and
drew it through his, they walked along in
silence together down the walk, finally he
broke it by asking Hessie if she remembered
that she expressed a wish when she and her
sister broke the sticks on their ramble in the
woods. She blushed deeply as it came to
mind what she wished for, and wondered how
he should know so much about that event.
“We two were there but did not like to in-
trude ourselves upon your solitude I think
your words were these, to your sister.” “Let
us wish for a brother on Christmas.” “Here
I am Hessie I offer myself for a Christmas
present to be a son, and a brother, and your
most devoted husband. Say yes dear,” so
sudden was this announced that she could not
speak, her tongue was too thick to utter a
word but her eyes and silence told her secret,
she loved him, she could not help it, he was
her ideal in goodness, and she thought with-
out a fault,a perfect gentleman in actions and
manners. “You Hessie have sealed my happi-

[Column 3]
ness by your assent to my proposal, you are
my jewel forever, my nymph of the woods.
For there I first saw you. Shall we be
married on Christmas day? and then you will
gat your wish love,pa and ma will have a son,”
Hess thought this would be a good time all
things would be in readiness the cooking done
the company invited.
	All was bustle about the mansion, things
lively enough, a Christmas dinner and a
wedding the same day was a new feature, Mr.
Grover went to get the Minister for the occa-
sion all were busy doing their part, Tom had
brought the tree and sure enough it was a
large one, he had if nicely trimmed and a
stand made for it, and the girls had it covered
over with a nice stone colored material and
the girls had the evergreens in wreaths and
festoons to hang the presents on, and Tom had
not forgotten his arrangement but had it in
readiness. The cooking was all done, Mamie
had made the cake extra nice and large, to
set in the middle of the table handsomely
iced over and with two turtle doves perched
on the top and a white wreath around it,
every thing was baked in the old fashioned
brick oven,Mamie said she would set the tables
the night before Christmas and then there
would not be so much to do, Hessie said she
would put the flowers in the vases.
	Fred stepped over with his present to hang
on the tree as he had been let into the secret
by Tom, who said he was appointed to spirit
away the tree to the parlor Christmas morn-
ing, but he kept it to himself what he was
going to hang on the tree. Fred thought he
would go and see his aunt and tell her about
what would take place at the mansion. He
said to her as he arrived “dear aunt, I am
going to be married to Miss Hessie Grover on
Christmas, as you are invited I thought you
ought to know it,” “I thought so;” said his
aunt, “that you did not go there for naught,
I wish you much joy and continued happiness,
I told you I should be invited to a wedding
soon, I must dress up in my best to suit the
occasion.” “So do aunt as you may not have
the pleasure of seeing me married again in a
hurry.” Perhaps I may your friend, “was his
aunt’s reply.” Harry took every thing cool
and said there was plenty of time, but had
bought the present for his darling Luce a
handsome gold watch, he said she deserved
it and if any one had earned a present she
had. Harry was very observing and a good
judge of human nature, He saw that Lucia
made sacrifices for others comfort and happi-
ness he would think to himself often. “If I
were really worthy of her, I would marry and
settle down.” He knew she thought a great
deal of him, if she showed a perference to any
one it was to her Harry as she would some-
times call him. But they were quiet lovers
and people did not know how much they
thought of each other. But she probably
would be like her mother not marry very
young, but she was satisfied if she could see
him and be in his society. Mrs Grover would
frequently go into the kitchen to see how.
things were progressing, but she had but little
need as the cook, Tom, and the girls had
every thing in ample order, Tom was on his
tip toes to assist, he would hurry up his work
and come to the kitchen door and say, “Mamie
want some water, out of wood, want any thing
call me, (look over to the table) isn’t that
nice.”  He always had wood sawed and split
and piled up in the wood shed, so he could
soon bring an armfull to the kitchen and
would say, “I am going to have a finger in
the pie.” “Dear Hess said Luce to night is
Christmas eve and we must hang up our
stockings, (this was the custom before trees
came in vogue,) we can hang them on the
Christmas tree Luce, and we may get them
filled with stones. Well I shant mind if I ge


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,second
gate east ot Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 1, 1890.

A HAPPY NEW YEAR.


[Column 1]

OFFICIAL DECLARATION.

SALT LAKE CITY,
	December 12th, 1889.
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:
	In consequence of gross misrepresentations of
the doctrines, aims and practices of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, commonly
called the "Mormon" Church, which have been
promulgated for years, and have recently been
revived for political purposes and to prevent all
aliens, otherwise qualified, who are members of
the "Mormon" Church from acquiring citizenship,
we deem it proper on behalf of said Church to
publicly deny these calumnies and enter our pro-
test against them.
	Wo solemnly make the following declarations,
viz:
	That this Church views the shedding of human
blood with the utmost abhorrence. That we re-
gard the killing of a human being, except in con-
formity with the civil law, as a capital crime which
should be punished by shedding the blood of the
criminal, after a public trial before a legally con-
stituted court of the land.
	Notwithstanding all the stories told about the
killing of apostates, no case of this kind has ever
occurred, and of course has never been estab-
lished against the Church we represent. Hun-
dreds of seceders from the Church have con-
tinuously resided and now live in this Territory,
many of whom have amassed considerable wealth,
though bitterly hostile to the "Mormon" faith
and people. Even those who have made it their
business to fabricate the vilest falsehoods, and to
render them plausible by culling isolated passages
from old sermons without the explanatory con-
text, and have suffered no opportunity to escape
them of vilifying and blackening the characters
of the people, have remained among those whom
they have thus persistently calumniated until the
present day, without receiving the slightest per-
sonal injury.
	We denounce as entirely untrue the allegation
which has been made, that our Church favors or
believes in the killing of persons who leave the
Church or apostatize from its doctrines. We
would view a punishment of this character for
such an act with the utmost horror, it is abhorrent
to us and is in direct opposition to the funda-
mental principles of our creed.
	The revelations of God to this Church make
death the penalty for capital crime, and require
that offenders against life and property shall be
delivered up to and tried by the laws of the land.
	We declare that no Bishop's or other courts in
this Church claims or exercises civil or judicial
functions, or the right to supersede, annul or
modify a judgment of any civil court. Such courts,

[Column 2]

while established to regulate Christian conduct,
are purely ecclesiastical, and their punitive
powers go no further than the suspension or ex-
communication of members from Church fellow-
ship.
	That this Church, while offering advice for the
welfare of its members in all conditions of life,
does not claim or exercise the right to interfere
with citizens in the free exercise of social or politi-
cal rights and privileges. The ballot in this Terri-
tory is absolutely untrammeled and secret. No
man's business or other secular affairs are in-
vaded by the Church or any of its officers. Free
agency and direct individual accountability to God
are among the essentials of our Church doctrine.
All things in the Church must be done by common
consent, and no officer is appointed without the
vote of the body.
	We declare that there is nothing in the ceremony
of the Endowment, or in any doctrine, tenet, obli-
gation or injunction of this Church, either private
or public,which is hostile or intended to be hostile
to the Government of the United States. On the
contrary, its members are under divine command-
ment to revere the Constitution as a heaven-in-
spired instrument and obey as supreme all laws
made in pursuance of its provisions.
	Utterances of prominent men in the Church at
a time of great excitement have been selected
and grouped, to convey the impression that
present members are seditious. Those expres-
sions were made more than thirty years ago, when
through the falsehoods of recreant officials, after-
wards demonstrated to be baseless,troops were sent
to this Territory and were viewed by the people,in
their isolated condition, fifteen hundred miles
from railroads, as an armed mob coming to renew
the bloody persecutions of years before.
	At that time excitement prevailed and strong
language was used; but no words of disloyalty
against the Government or its institutions were
uttered; public speakers confined their remarks
to denouncing traitorous officials who were pros-
tituting the powers of their positions to accompiish
nefarious ends. Criticism of the acts of United
States officials was not considered then, neither
is it now, as treason against the nation nor as
hostility to the Government. In this connection
we may say that the members of our Church have
never offered or intended to offer, any insult to
the flag of our country; but have always honored
it as the ensign of laws and liberty.
	We also declare that this Church does not
claim to be an independent, temporal kingdom of
God, or to be an imperium in imperio aiming to
overthrow the United States or any other civil
government. It has been organized by divine
revelation preparatory to the second advent of the
Redeemer. It proclaims that "the kingdom of
heaven is at hand." Its members are commanded
of God to be subject unto the powers that be until
Christ comes, whose right it is to reign.
	Church government and civil government are
distinct and separate in our theory and practice,
and we regard it as part of our destiny to aid in
the maintenance and perpetuity of the institutions
of our country.
	We claim no religious liberty that we are un-
willing to accord to others.
	We ask for no civil or political rights which are
not granted and guaranteed to citizens in general.
	We desire to be in harmony with the Govern-
ment and people of the United States as an in-
tegral part of the nation.
	We regard all attempts to exclude aliens from
naturalization, and citizens from the exercise of
the elective franchise, solely because they are
members of the "Mormon" Church, as impolitic,
unrepublican, and dangerous encroachment upon
civil and religious liberty.
	Notwithstanding the wrongs we consider we
have suffered through the improper execution of
national laws, we regard those wrongs as the acts

[Column 3]

of men and not of the Government; and we in-
tend, by the help of Ominpotence, to remain firm
in our fealty and steadfast in the maintenance of
constitutional principles and the integrity of this
Republic.
	We earnestly appeal to the American press and
people not to condemn the Latter-day Saints un-
heard. Must we always be judged by the mis-
representations of our enemies, and never be ac-
corded a fair opportunity of representing our-
selves?
	In the name of justice, reason and humanity,
we ask for a suspension of national and popular
judgement until a full investigation can be had
and all the facts connected with what is called the
"Mormon" question can be known. And we ap-
peal to the Eternal Judge of all men and nations to
aid us in the vindication of our righteous cause.
		WILFORD WOODRUFF,
		GEORGE Q. CANNON,
		JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.
		LORENZO SNOW,
		FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS,
		BRIGHAM YOUNG,
		MOSES THATCHER,
		FRANCIS M. LYMAN,
		JOHN HENRY SMITH,
		GEORGE TEASDALE,
		HEBER J. GRANT,
		JOHN W. TAYLOR,
		M. W. MERRILL,
		A. H. LUND,
		ABRAHAM H. CANNON,
	Members of the Council of the Apostles.
		JOHN W. YOUNG,
		DANIEL H. WELLS,
			Counselors.


“A Happy New Year” to all the friends, patrons
and readers of the EXPONENT.  May it be a pros-
perous one to the Saints and to all those who are
working for the good of humanity at home or
abroad.  In the year just dawning there will with-
out doubt be many great and important changes,
transpiring, for the work of advancement goes on
and the prophecies of ancient and modern
prophets, seers and revelators, are being and will
continue to be fulfilled.  There is always a sort of
sadness mingled with the joy which is awakened
in the heart by the advent of the New Year.
One cannot but tremble a little in crossing its
threshold knowing not what it will bring with it.
The writer hopes and most fervently too, that this
New Year 1890 may bring greater prosperity to
the EXPONENT and an increased circulation, so
that it may be able to appear in a new dress be-
fore the end of the present year.


The story we publish in this issue has taken so
much of the space that Reports of Conferences,
Suffrage items, death notices and other matter
had to be left over. Hephzibah will also be con-
tinued in Jan. 15.


BISHOP WHITNEY’S POEMS.

	A volume of poems fresh from the press is a
fitting tribute to the New Year, and the friends
and admirers of Bishop Whitney's literary work,
who have so long appreciated both prose and
poetry from his gifted pen, will welcome this new
book joyfully.  To those unacquainted with his
name and fame as an author, it will be some-
thing more than a genuine surprise--a veritable
feast of poetry and song. 
	The reading public have been anxiously wait-
ing the publication of the book, ever since the
local papers announced that the work was in the
hands of the publishers.  It has been looked for-


[Column 1]

ward to as a suitable holiday gift and such in-
deed it is. There is little need to speak of its
excellence, the book speaks for itself and the
Christmas Herald has left little for others to say;
however as this little paper published his first
efforts in the "long ago" it is eminently proper to
make some comment upon his advancement up
the rugged hill of progress, for it is beset with
thorns and briers, howbeit the young Bishop may
have gathered some of the choicest flowers, that
have shed a sweet fragrance in the hearts and
homes of others as he has strewn his flowers
of poesy from time to time freely in the pathway
of weary and worn toilers plodding onward in
this workaday world.
	Bishop Whitney's style is lofty, and char-
acterized particularly by a purity of tone notice
able is all he has written. His best pieces are of
a spiritual and exalted type and some of them
might be termed grandly majestic, for instance,
"The Ancient of the Mount" and "Immanuel—A
Christmas Idyl," and some others. He has also
written in a tender and pathetic style, as his
"Stanzas for Music" plainly indicate for they ap-
peal directly to the heart and affections, and are
suitable for singing in the soft evening twilight.
	His poems of comfort and sweet consolation to
the bereaved are full of tenderness and in this
particular gift of alleviating sorrow with his in-
tense sympathy he seems peculiarly to excel.
His last poem of this kind "Julia," is given in full
in this issue, and is an exquisite tribute to the
memory of one of his intimate friends.
	If the writer were asked to select passages
from the Bishop's best writings she would scarcely
know where to begin, having watched his literary
work carefully all the way along, therefore it
would be hard to choose from among such a rich
garden of variegated blossoms; and perchance
the selection might be one that would seem the
lowliest flower of all.
	We make one quotation from the poem entitled
"A Silent Sorrow."

	"There is a grief that chokes expression,
		Sad eyes whence tears may never fall;
	God pity him whose grief flows inward,
		For this the greatest grief of all."

	And again from "A Monody."—

	"In the springtime and spring of her life was she taken,
		When the pitying tears of young April were shed
	O'er the slumbering germlets of May, to awaken
	The sentinel flowers to vigil the dead."

	And the loveliest blossom the e'er fell from Eden,
		The fairest, most fragrant in purity's wreath,
	When the spring-heralds welcomed the life-giving season,
		Was slain by the frosts of the winter of death."

	Among the very best of the author's poems is
the one with which he closes his book, "Thought's
Martyrdom." It expresses the sensitive nature of
the poet and the writer as clearly as is possible
in words, the rapture, the ecstacy, the agony
and torture through which one passes who is
gifted with inspiration from the divine muse. If
time and space would permit we could go on
giving extracts and impressions of his poetical
writings in prose and poetry, for his prose is
poetry, as well as his rhythm; but suffice to say
his book contains many precious gems and,
 treasures, genuine pearls dived deep for down in
the sea of thought, and also bright fancies caught
on the golden thread of poetic enchantment:
truths clear cut as diamonds and well polished,
and altogether the contents are elevating and in
spirational in their tendency.
	The book is to be sold only by subscription,
Solomon F. Kimball having the agency, the prices
range from $1.50, to $2.00 and $2.75, according to
the binding. The paper is of a superior quality
and the covers are handsome especially that of
the highest priced. It is the most elegant book

[Column 2]

of poems in appearance that has been issued in
Utah. The book was published at the office of
the Juvenile Instructor.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
JULIA Y. BURTON.
	The sad, and it would seem untimely death of
Sister Julia Burton which occurred November 29,
1889—in Birmingham, England, has fallen heavily
indeed upon the young husband, and aged
mother; and the tender sympathy of hundreds of 
loving friends and relatives is extended to them 
in the midst of their sorrow in this great be-
reavement. Words are inadequate at such a time,
and yet they are all one can give to the mourner,
and sometimes they carry consolation, because of
the spirit that accompanies them, and the convic-
tion that they are spoken in such sincerity that
they fall like healing balm upou the wounded
soul.
	It is always with deep regret we chronicle the
death of a friend, and particularly so when one
passes away in the very prime of life, surrounded
with loving care and tenderness and all that
makes this world a desirable place to dwell in.
	Looking back one year it seems scarcely pos-
sible that so many we have known, young and
promising, could have been snatched away by the
destroyer, leaving their vacant places in happy
households
	True it is, that "in the midst of life we are in
death." and this seems plainly illustrated in the
sudden decease of Sister Burton; to be sure it
had become well known that she suffered from
some inward cause, but it was hoped and believed 
that with skillful treatment, she would rally again
if she were to undergo, as was anticipated would
be necessary, a surgical operation. But in this
case where the most ardent hopes of recovery 
were entertained, it proved fatal; just after the
news had reached her home and friends here in
this city, that the operation had been successfully
performed in England, whither she had gone to
obtain the best medical attention, came the startl-
ing message from over the sea, that Julia was
dead. To die away from home and native land
makes it sadder still for those on whom the fatal
blow falls with cruel force. And in this instance
to the young husband thus bereft, who can tell
the agony, or measure the depth of grief in his
sorrow-stricken heart as he journeyed homeward
across the migthy acean, lonely and bowed down
with his weight of woe? Only God knows the
pain and suffering endured under such heavy af-
flictions. But He who tempers the wind to the
shorn lamb, will not forsake the sorrowing hus-
band, nor the gentle, true hearted mother, brothers
and sisters and loved ones, who mourn her loss
here and miss her from her accustomed place in
the family circle.
	To those who knew her intimately Mrs. Burton
was greatly beloved; her lively temperament, her
vivacity of manner, her far-reaching hospitality 
together with many other endearing qualities of
head and heart, made her a general favorite, and
she will long be missed in the gatherings where
she was wont to be one of the gayest and hap-
piest of all the crowd.
	But with Julia all is well, she has gone in the 
full bloom of womanhood to join the innumerable 
company of the just made perfect, and there is no 
real cause for mourning, for she had doubtless
filled her earthly mission and having
participated in the blessings of the Gospel is pre-
pared to come forth in the morning of the resur-
rection to be reunited with her husband and par-
take of the blessings of immortality and eternal
lives in the celestial kingdom. The exquisitely
tender lines, of Bishop Whitney's which we give
below, express far better than this simple offering
[column 2]
to her memory, the love and tenderness with 
which her life was crowned.

			JULIA.
		As babe on mother breast,
		She softly sank to rest.
	Tread lightly—do not wake her—let her sleep.
		She has earned the sweet repose
		The ransomed spirit knows.
	Ne'er wake her—tho' her absence now we weep.

		From shadows of our night,
		She passed unto the light.
	A star sets here in splendor there to rise.
		Though the path of pain she trod—
		The footsteps of her God—
	Her feet now press the hills of Paradise.

		Would summon her again
		To world of woe and pain, 
	Whose false and fleeting pleasures do but seem?
		Ah I no; we'd have thee stay
		Where life is joy alway,
	And sorrow but the memory of a dream!
	
		Adieu! a kindlier soul,
		A gentler heart, the goal
	Of gladness and of glory ne'er did win.
		From golden gates above,
		Wilt thou not look in love,
	And glance with pity ere thou goest in?

		O Thou at whose command,
		Shall dust of every land,
	And ocean deeps deliver up their dead!
		One word of comfort speak!
		Bid hope's bright morning break
	In beams of blessings o'er the mourner's head!


A GLANCE BACKWARD.

I turned me backward more than forty years,
	And gazed upon a picture dim with age.
My eyes were blinded with the falling tears;
	I scarce could read the retrospective page;
And yet I knew the meaning passing well
Of that strange scene, the story I could tell.

'Twas written and engraved upon my mind,
	Then laid away in memory's silent hall;
And as with silken cords we sometimes bind
	Old letters, and the dearest things of all;
So I had folded up, and laid away,
The childish recollection of that day.

The fire blazed fitfully and shadows crept
	All through the rooms, like spectres in and out;
And the pale moonlight down the pathway swept,
	Silvering the vines and shrub'ry round about;
And in the distance, phantom like there stood
The trees that skirted round the neighborhood.

The lamps were lighted, and the tables set,
	And round the festive board of goodly cheer,
Old friends and true, long-parted now were met
	Seeking to banish ev'ry care and fear;
And join in happy converse with glad hearts,
Such as sweet music to the soul imparts.

The song and jest and merry tale went round,
	And each one sought to break the mystic spell;
But laughter echoed in a hollow sound.
	As though a shadow on the household fell— 
A premonition as it were of ill.
Seem'd ev'ry one assembled there to fill.

How is it that when joy is at its height,
	A shadow broodeth o'er the gayest scene?
When ev'ry pulse is throbbing with delight,
	Dark clouds like omens, come and intervene;
And smiles and gladness, quickly disappear
Before the consciousness of unknown fear.

Yet so it is, and often when we think,
	Our cup of happiness is running o'er,
E'en while we lift it to our lips to drink—
	A blast has shattered it forevermore;
Yet disappointment cometh not in vain,
Life's richest treasures, oft are bought with pain.


'Twas a fair company, a happy sight,
	The loved ones gathered in the dear old place;
And evermore, that memorable night
	Shines forth with something of a kindly grace,
Sad with that sweetness born of smiles and tears,
That hallows home, and glorifies the years.

There on that night, two lovers young and gay.
	Plighted their troth, and solemn promise made;
And even then, they felt some potent sway
	Of dread, the very atmosphere pervade,
But love is strong and vows of constancy
They interchang'd in fond expectancy.

Music and dancing whiled away the hours,
	And love and friendship bore a faithful part;
Sweeter than perfume of the rarest flowers
	Are these expressions of the human heart;
Ane O, with what delightful charms we grace,
The hearts and homes we’ve made our dwelling place.

At last the music ceased and all was still,—
	And then a busy hurrying to and fro.
And in the crisp night air "peace and good will,"
	Is the last benediction they bestow,
As from that home, each went their sep'rate way,
Nor ever met again as on that day.

But often in the years that followed fast,
	These friends, and brothers, sisters ev'ry one
Knew how prophetic were the clouds, that cast
	Such gloom and sadness, ere that night was done.
And what that household, and that home befell,
Where happiness and joy were wont to dwell.

Where now are those who sang the sweetest songs,
	Or told such wondrous tales of land and sea?
Do they forget that past to which belongs
	So much, that seemed a prophecy to be?
Ah me, what vigils, waking or in sleep,—
Tho' ever silent do our fancies keep.

Alas, how swiftly all the years have flown
	That intervene since that eventful day;
Tho' thorns and briers have been thickly strewn,
	As we have trod life's rough and rugged way
Yet still we hasten and brighter glow
The hopes, the talisman of "long ago."
		E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.

	Peace on earth good will to man, sung the
Angels;—for unto us a Child is born, unto us a
Son is given, and the government shall be upon
His shoulders. And His name shall be called
Wonderful Counselor, the Mighty God, the Ever-
lasting Father, the Prince of Peace.
	I sat in the quiet evening time and meditated on
the wondrous story of the incarnation of the Son
of God and of the love of God to man, and my
thoughts traveled back to the time more than
eighteen hundred years ago, and in imagination I
heard the angels sing “Glory to God in the
highest” and I could see the glorious star and the
Wise Men bending before the lowly bed of the
infant Jesus, and my heart throbbed with joy and
my spirit was filled with love as I contemplated
the glorious work of the Son of God,then I thought
of the Christmas approaching and how few while
in the midst of merriment and rejoicing would
remember Him whose birth they professed to
celebrate, and I knew that many would fill the
air with riot and drunkenness, and many would
blaspheme His Holy name; and my heart was
sad and I bowed my head and wept; and me-
thought a guide came to me and took me by the
hand and said, “Do you not know that these are
the Latter-days? And that the great work of the
Redeemer must and will be accomplished? Come
and look through the earth.” And I went, and
saw many things both in the abodes of the rich
and dwellings of the lowly, and I heard the merry
chimes of Christmas bells and saw troops of
happy children with hands filled with toys and
sweetmeats, and I saw houses and Churches
decorated with evergreens and great feasts were

[Column 2]
prepared; and many danced with glee and sent
gifts to one another; and some there were whose
hearts were filled with charity and love; and they
were pitiful to the poor and the oppressed and re-
lieved their wants with many good gifts, and they
caused the weary orphan to smile and the widows
heart to sing for joy because of the happy
Christmas time and the peace and joy they gave
returned fourfold into their own bosoms; for the
recording angel smiled because they would re-
ceive their reward from Him whose promise
never fails.; then I followed my guide to a large
and gloomy building enclosed with high walls,
and there were many men incarcerated therein
and some were criminals of the deepest dye, men
of violence and blood, men whose hearts were
hardened in sin, and others who were young with
the freshness of youth yet upon their brows, and
who were not yet hardened in crime; and some
were there who were guilty of no crime but were
imprisoned for conscience-sake, and they all
mingled together; the man steeped in sin and
wickedness, the youth, and the men who were
there for conscience-sake, and the friends of those
men whose hearts were filled with charity and
love sent them food and comforts in which all
shared and many good words were spoken to the
weak and erring and they were exhorted to seek a
better way and even the hearts of the prisoners
were made to rejoice because of the remembrance
of friends in the happy Christmas time and I know
that this also would receive a reward from Him
who said, I was sick and in prison and ye visited
me. . Then I thought I followed my guide to the
great cities of the old world and I saw many
Churches that were built some to St. Peter and some
Paul and to Saint Mary and Saint Jude, and there
were preachers preaching in them and tho’ they
sometimes spoke of the babe of Bethlehem; they
failed to warn the people that the second coming
of the Messiah was near at hand but instead they
said all things remain as they were from the be-
ginning until now; and some were asleep and
cared not, and some were fools and said in their
hearts, “There is no God.” And there were
secret combinations and society was shaken to
the foundation and great preparations for war
were being made,and there were strange diseases
and famine and earthquakes; then I thought of
the words of Him who was born, the babe of
Bethlehem. “When ye'see these things come to
pass know that the coming of the Son of man is
near at hand.”
	And then I thought we entered a building that
was not one of the Churches of the rich and
great, and many were congregated there and they
listened to the words of one, who had traveled
sea and land to bring to them the tidings that
God had again spoken from the heavens, and had
set His hand to bring about the restoration of all
things, warning the people to repent and be bap-
tized for the remission of their sins, and turn to
the Lord with all their hearts that they might be
prepared to meet the bridegroom. And some
there were that received this message gladly,
while others were exceedingly angry and said
“this fellow preaches strange doctrine;” we will
not hear a God speaking from the heavens, away
with him. And many men laid hands on him and
they beat him with many stripes and caused him to
flee unto another place, then I knew that the
same spirit that entered into Herod causing him to
murder the Innocents that he might destroy the
infant Jesus, was still upon the earth possessed
with great fury and determined to make war upon
the Saints because he knows that his time is short
and I also saw that the divine Spirit that filled
the hearts of the angels with love and joy when
they sang “Glory to God in the Highest;” on that
Christmas morning long ago, was still upon the
earth filling the Saints with faith and love and
enabling them to rejoice in the midst of trials and
persecution because they are looking and waiting

[Column 3]
for the second coming of Him who was born, the
babe of Bethlehem.
	Then with the eye of faith I was enabled to
pierce the future and I knew that the great work
of the Son of God would all be accomplished, and
not one of all the words that He had spoken
would fall to the ground, then I saw as in a vision
that all was changed and the earth no longer
groaned under a weight of sin and sorrow; for the
spirit that had made war so long against Him who
was once the babe of Bethlehem was bound with
a great chain and the earth was covered with
verdure and yielded her strength to man with
fruits of immortality, and in place of discord and
strife, there was peace and joy; for men had
thrown down their weapons of war and blood-
shed and had taken up the peaceful implements
of husbandry; and t y learned the art of war no
more; and deliverance was preached to the cap-
tive and the prison doors were opened. And
fathers and children rejoiced together; (and God’s
ancient people were restored), and instead of the
mosque of the Idolator a stately Temple was
raised to the name of the Most High and in it
they acknowledged the babe of Bethlehem as the
Messiah; and happy boys and girls were playing
in the streets of Jerusalem. And the whole
animal creation was subject to man as at the be-
ginning, and there was none to hurt or make
afraid for all nations acknowledged the reign of
the Messiah; who was once the babe of Bethle-
hem, and I understood how the government
would be upon His shoulders; and I heard my
guide softly whisper “Peace on earth good will
to man.”
					    PHEBE C. YOUNG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NATIONAL-AMERICAN W. S. A.

	The Twenty-Second Annual Convention will
be held at Washington, D. C., in the Church
of Our Father, corner of 11th and L. Streets,
Feb. 18, 19, 20, and 21, 1890.

	Each State society auxiliary to the National-
American W. S. A. is entitled under the new
constitution to elect its own representative on
the National-American executive board. State
Societies that have not yet done this are re-
quested to attend to it.
	State reports for the annual meeting should
be sent to the Secretary of the Programme
Committee, Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, 748
No. 19th St., Philadelphia, Pa.


There are 1,300 women painters in Paris.


UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
﻿PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS,     J. V. PARKER,
	 City Pass. Agt.	Div. Pass. Agt.

R.K.THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		    112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 308. SALT LAKE CITY.


W. S. A. ORGANIZATIONS.

	The Woman's Suffrage Association of Emery
Co., was organized at Castle Dale, Oct. 19th,
1889. Mrs. E. Howard of Salt Lake City was
chosen Chairman and Kathinka Andersen
Secretary pro. tem. Officers nominated and
sustained by vote. For Pres. Sarah Ann
Fulmer, of Orangeville; First Vice Pres. Mary
Ann Mc'Donough, of Castle Dale; Second,
Caroline A. Larsen, Castle Dale; Third, Adelia
Mackleprang, Huntington; Fourth, Paulina
Pace, Price. Secretary, Jenny Cox, Orange-
ville; Cor. Sec. Joanna, Curtis, Orangeville;
Treasurer, Marie Olsen, Castle Dale. Execu-
tive Committee, Amanda Shipp, Castle Dale,
Anne Pulsipher, Huntington; Jossia Childs,
Orangeville; Hannah Seely, Castle Dale;
Hannah U. Larsen, Castle Dale.
	All these nominations were solidly sustained.
Spirited speeches were delivered by several
of the ladies, including Mrs. Howard who ex-
plained the legal condition of woman clearly.
Mr. Wm. Howard made a very eloquent
speech on the subject also, all tending to stimu-
late the cause of the right and value of Wo-
man Suffrage in Utah and all the United
States.
	KATHINKA ANDERSON, Sec. pro. tem.

MASS MEETING AT LOGAN.
	Logan City Dec. 10th, 1889. At 10 a. m.
a Mass Meeting of the women of Cache Co.,
assembled in the Tabernacle for the purpose of
organizing a Woman Suffrage Association.
Mrs. E. Howard called the attention of the as-
sembly; singing, a fervent prayer was offered
by Lucy B. Young. Mrs. Howard explained
the object of the organization and read a por-
tion of an official call signed by influential
women of the County. Mrs. E. Howard was
elected Chairman and Mrs. Jane E. Molen
Secretary pro. tem. Speeches were then made
by Mrs. Adaline Barber, Mrs. L. B. Young and
Geo. Pitkin Esq., showing the necessity of a
Woman Suffrage Association in this county,
denouncing the action of the Utah Carpet Bag
Liberals, whose misrepresentations to Congress
deprived the women of this Territory of their
inestimable rights.
	The following ladies were unanimously
elected as officers. Mrs. William Sanders
Pres. Mrs. Julia Stewart, First Vice Pres. Mrs.
Mattie Hansen, Second, Mrs. C. I. Goodwin,
Third, Mrs. Jane E. Molen, Fourth, Mrs. E. J.
Jushaw Fifth, and Mrs. Julia Petty Sixth
Vice Pres. Mrs. Sarah Farr, Secretary, Miss
Mary Ann Thane Cor. Sec., Mrs. Marie
Thatcher,Treasurer. An Executive Committee
was then appointed. Mrs. Clara McAlister
Chairman, Mrs. Elizabeth Haines, Mrs.
Armenia Parry, Mrs. Martha Tarbett and Miss
Maggie Sloan as members of said committee.
78 names of ladies enrolled. Benediction by
Bishop Lewis.
		J. E. MOLEN.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	There are thirty-three women now studying
in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
	At the second examination in medicine held
lately at Bombay, a lady, Miss Alice
Mackenzie, was at the head of the list of suc-
cessful candidates.
	Mrs. Fannie B. Ward has started on a trip
as news correspondent through South America.
The journey will occupy a year, and will ex-
tend through every division of that country.
	John G. Whittier, the best beloved of all
American poets, passed his eighty-second birth-
day on the 17th inst. at his home in Ames-
bury, warmed by the love of millions who are
better for his having lived.


Miss Phoebe Couzins, of St. Louis, Mo., is a
candidate for a place on the Utah commission.
She argues that as the Mormon question in-
volves the interests of many thousands of wo-
men, at least one woman should have a place
on the board.	Ex.
	At Washington, D. C., Dec. 16, in the U.
S. Senate, a memorial was presented for the
admission of Wyoming as a State, and on the
same day a bill was introduced by Senator
Manderson, of Nebraska, for woman suffrage
in all the States.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 18.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1890.	NO. 16.


CONTENTS.

	Anglo-Saxon Literature.—A. T. C. Hephzibah
—A Story. Treatment of Children.—S. F. At-
wood. Extracts from a Letter.—J. M. Sjodahl.
Correspondence.—E. A. Crane Watson. Notes
and News. Salt Lake Stake R. S.—E. Howard.
Lehi W. S. A.—Sarah T. Evans. In Memoriam
Emily McKee. Obituaries. A Sad Death.
	EDITORIAL:—Notes. A Golden Wedding.—
H. H. S. Woman's Privileges.—S. W. Richards.
Utah W. S. A.—Cornelia H. Clayton. Constitu-
tion National-American W. S. A.
	Poetry:—A Hundred Years Ago. Number
Nine.—E. T. Old Folks Picnic and Ball.


A HUNDRED YEARS AGO.

Where are the birds that sang 
	A hundred years ago?
The flowers that all in beauty sprang
	A hundred years ago?
		The lips that smiled,
		The eyes that wild
		In flashes shone
		Soft eyes upon—
Where, Oh, where are lips and eyes,
The maiden's smile, the lover's sighs
		That were so long ago?

Who peopled all the city's streets
	A hundred years ago?
Who filled the Church with faces meek
	A hundred years ago?
		The sneering tale
		Of sister frail,
		The plot that worked
		Another's hurt—
Where, Oh, where are plots and sneers,
The poor man's hopes, the rich man's fears,
	That were so long ago?

Where are the graves where dead men slept
	A hundred yesrs ago? 
Who, whilst living, oft-times wept,
	A hundred years ago? 
		By other men
		They knew not then,
		Their lands are tilled,
		Their homes are filled—
Yet nature then was just as gay,
And bright the sun shone as to-day, 
	A hundred years ago.


NUMBER NINE.

I've passed again the ordeal of pain.
Been close to the shore of "The River" again.
	But this innocent babe of mine,
Makes it seem but as a troubled dream,
And life again takes a luminous gleam,
	Although it is number nine.

As I gaze in the depths of its innocent eyes
Gazing around in such mute surprise
	Wondering what life can be;
I too am filled with wondering,
Why it is that fate should bring,
	Another wee babe to me?

And I wonder if spirits in spirit-land
Ere they come to us an earthly band
	Can choose where they will to come.
If so it seems that this babe of mine
Would surely not have been number nine,
	But have chosen a better home.

And I wondered if as they journey to earth,
Ere they join the body for earthly birth


If ﻿they meet the Gone Before.
And, if they talk of the struggle and strife,
That is sure to be  part of an earthly life,
	And trials that must be borne.

And I wonder if when behind the scene,
If they know what will be, and what has been,
	And all the mystery of life.
If so they know ere they enter the gloom
All the joy there'll be in a future home,
	When they've ended  the earthly strife.

As I lovingly clasp my babe so pure,
And think of what she must endure,
	My heart is filled with misgiving.
And I hardly know for which I should weep,
The innocent babe in my arms asleep,
	Or those that are not with the living.

A peace comes with the thoughts of the dead,
To the life beyond with hope we're led,
	And it is joy now understood
To know that forever they all are mine,
Both the living and dead that make the nine,
	If I'm true to my mother-hood.

E. T.


[Column 1]

ANGLO-SAXON LITERATURE.

	The Anglo-Saxon was the first of eight
periods of English Literature. The Celts, who
first inhabited Britain, were driven out by
the Angles, Saxons, and Jutes, in 607 A. D.
For about two hundred years they were in an
unsettled and quarrelsome state, being divided
up into different kingdoms. Egbert of Wessex
united the nine A. S. kingdoms and called
himself king of the English. These people
had a great love of adventure and of nature,
which may be easily discovered by reading
their poetry. Poetry was their first form of
literature. Their poems were exclusively of
religion and the sea. Their poems were wild
and improbable containing accounts of dragons,
monsters, etc. This was natural. The country
they inhabited was wild and rugged in its
scenery. It is likely that their imaginations
would people the uncultivated haunts with
mythical beings.
	The first work which appeared in Britain was
Beowulf, a poem of adventure and excitement.
It was not an A. S. work as it was written on
the continent before the Anglo Saxons entered
Britain, but it was translated into A. S. by a 
gentleman of Northumbria. The first real
A. S. writing, which places the author as
Father of English Literature, is Coedmon's
Paraphrase of the Bible. It was written in 670
A. D, beginning the A. S. period of literature.
Coedmon, durning his old age, through in-
spiration (so the story of the poem's origin
says) translated the whole of the Bible into
verse. This book partly formed the founda-
tion for Milton's "Paradise Lost," for there is
a striking similarity between many passages of
the two authors. Especially is this the case in
the soliloquy of Satan.
	The A. S. poetry and language were very
different from those of modern English. There
was no metre or rhyme, but a sort of metri-
cal effect was produced by commencing the
the first two words of the first and the first
main word of the second line with the same
letter. The lines all went in pairs.
	A few poems of less importance followed
Coedmon's work. A number of sacred poems
and hymns were written by Aldhelm and
Cynewulf. The Vercelli and Exeter books

[Column 2]

contain some of the writings of these poets.
Of the war poems of A. S. literature the battle
songs of Finnesburg, Maldon, and Brununburli
are the only ones of consequence.
	Soon deeper thought became apparent among
the Anglo Saxons, for prose began to make its
appearance. The first work of prose was by
Boede (a Roman Catholic monk of Northum-
bria) which entitled him to  the name of the
Father of A. S. prose. His works were almost
entirely in Latin. Had it not been for his
translation of the Gospel of St. John, which
was his closing work, and his only work in
English, he never could have had a place in
A. S. Literature. Boede was a person of very
extensive knowledge. He was versed in science,
philosophy, literature, and art, all of which
were displayed in his writings. The real
father of A. S. prose though was AElfred the
Great. In Northumbria and the adjoining
region A. S. Literature almost died down by
the invasion of the Danes. CElfred revived it in
Wessex. He was a practical, methodical man
who was deeply interested in his people and
who was anxious concerning their welfare. He
tried in every manner to better their condi-
tion and understanding. He was not an
original writer but he made numerous transla-
tions from the Latin tongue, adding copious
notes of his own. Among others of his works
was a translation of Orpheus into English. He
wrote  on  morals, religion and  philosophy.
During the riegn of Edgar (As the Great's
son) AEthelwald came into notice as a writer.
He translated from Latin into the English
tongue. His pupil, AElfric was well known for
being the first translator of the Bible, as he
converted into English the first seven books
and Job.
	A principal prose work of ancient Briain
was the A. S. Chronicle. It began  in the
reign of AElfred the Great (in about the ninth
century) and was kept by monks from that
time until 1154. This book is very dry and
uninteresting. Its only value lies in the fact
that it was a part of A. S. Literature.
     In 1066, A. S. Literature was almost crushed
out by the victorious entrance into Britain of
the Normans, and no more writings were pro-
duced until the beginning of the next period,
when the Anglo Saxons and the Normans
combined in their efforts.
		A. T. C.


HEPHZIBAH.
XIII.

How buoyant are the hopes, that youth inspires!
	Yea, rich in faith, this land of fairy dreams,
Wherein one cherishes, such fond desires,
	That all the future bright with promise seems.

	Hepsie Hathaway went back to school with
out being especially impressed with anything
she had heard from the Elders; in fact the
girl was too much absorbed in her studies, and
her thirst for book knowledge to realize the
importance of the Gospel. While at home she
had been in a sort of bewilderment, it was all
so strange and sudden; astonished to find her
mother so changed, and her former school-mate
Lucy Reynolds, a convert to the new faith;
and surprised when she learned from the girl's
own lips that her engagement was broken off;
—she was scarcely able to grasp the situation,
and really things had not been clearly pre-
sented to her.


[Column 1]

	"How strangely things do happen in this
world Lucy?" said Hepsie to her friend, who
had come in to say good bye, and to confide
in Hepsie, whom she was sure would feel some
sympathy for her in the struggle she was mak-
ing. "I never could have believed you could
give up Henry's love for the sake of a differ-
ence in religion."
	"I gave him up for the truth," replied Lucy
quickly, "and I trust I shall be faithful to the
cause I have espoused; it is something higher
and better than our ministers preach Hepsie,
and cannot be compared with the favor of
men, or the riches of the world." "And yet
you could not convince Henry, with all your
eloquence, and your own heart pleading for
him too, and such devotion as you have always
shown him? I do not see how he could give you
up, I cannot understand him, nor you either
Lucy,—for that matter.  I thought love over-
came all obstacles, all differences, in rank, in
sentiment, and in religion."
	"You see now how mistaken you were my
little friend,—and I hope you will be a true
friend to me in this, for you can do me a great
favor if you will?" "What is it pray?" the
girl responded quickly. "Never mind now
dear, you will be coming home again soon,
and then I will tell you all." And so they
parted.
	During the journey back to her sister's
Hepsie was silent and thoughtful; as she had
heard so much in a few hours, and it had all
been so unexpected. Mr. severance kept up
an incessant talking about the "Mormons" his
wife seemingly acquiescing in what he said,
thought in a very different spirit from his.
Hepsie inwardly resented the way in which he
alluded to the Elders, knowing her mother
looked up to them with such reverence, and
had entertained them at her own house; she
thought her sister altogether too passive, but
she kept her own counsel until after they
reached their destination, and then she broke
out abruptly after the fashion of young girls,
"Hannah why didn't you speak up for mother's
friends when Samuel abused them so? What
right had he to call them hypocrites and de-
ceivers? What does he know about the Bible
compared to"—before she could finish the
sentence her amiable sister, always self pos-
sessed and equal to the occasion, said in the
mildest tone, "How old are you Hephzibah
Hathaway?" "O, I suppose you think I am
too young, to express myself as I do sometimes,
but really Hannah how do you know that these
men are not called to preach the Everlasting
Gospel? Mother says they are, and although
I don't know for myself I believe her testi-
mony." Mrs. Severance was confounded, she
had always taught Hepsie obedience, and now
she was puzzled how to answer the girl.
	At that moment Mr. Severance entered the
room and instantly guessed there was some
 unpleasantness, judging by the silence and the
peculiar expression on the countenances of his
wife and her sister.
	"What's the matter, are you two discussing
"Mormon" doctrine?" "Not exactly replied
Mrs. S. but Hepsie thinks mother is right."
"O, she does, and so I suppose these "Mormon"
Elders will be ducking her under the water
some of these cold days; I would rather see
her dead." "O, husband, remonstrated Mrs S.
how dreadful you talk, Hepsie has opinions of
her own, child as she is, and the best way is to
let the subject alone; she will forget it all the
sooner." Hepsie relapsed into silence; she
would not argue, with this man whom she so
thoroughly disliked, she wondered how Hannah
could respect him, much less love him, for to
her, his very presence was hateful.
	The conversation was not renewed for several
days, and things took their usual course.
Hepsie became more absorbed in her studies

[Column 2]

and no message came from home, about the
work, which was all this time spreading rapidly
in the town, only such a short distance away.
It was near the close of the term and Hepsie
had been very diligent, and was making every
preparation for the last day, expecting to pass a
successful examination; she had even spoken
to her sister about her dress, and manifested
considerable interest in the matter of her ap-
pearance, as visitors were exprected from other 
towns, and it would be quite an event in the
quiet life of a country school-girl; and Hepsie
was fully aware that Miss Andrews expected
her to carry off the honors and the prize.
	All the enthusiasm of her ambitious nature
was aroused, she could not sleep, she was rest-
less and excited, though she was also confident of
success. It was almost the first time in her
life when she had been over-anxious about her
wearing apparel, and she hunted up the finest
old lace, and the prettiest ribbons, to complete
her toilet. Meantime a letter came from  her
mother requesting her to come home, as an
Elder who had been baptizing a great number
in Boston, Salem and Lynne was expected and
Hepsie must hear him; this was rather trying,
but she kept the matter secret from her sister,
and went on with her preparations; somehow
she was not as light-hearted as before, and her
mother's urgent plea for her to come home
kept ringing in her ears.
	At last the morning came for the examina-
tion, the hall was beautifully decorated and
Miss Andrews in the gayest of spirits, and the
grandest of dresses Hepsie thought, welcomed
little Hepsie with a kiss as she came forward
with her usual good morning to the teacher
she so dearly loved, and as she saw her hesi-
tation, assured her how confident she was that
she would not fail. Hepsie was like one in
a dream all that day; she did not see the
sea of faces around her and the voices seemed
afar off, for all the time she fancied that she
could hear her mother calling to her to come
home, and in imagination she could see a little
group gathered for "the baptism," in the brook
close to the dear old place; the brook upon the
mossy banks of which she had sat so often
dreaming of the future, and where she had
plucked the sweet-scented violets in spring-
time—and watched the speckled trout darting
hither and thither; all these visions came and
went as she recited the lessons she had learned 
so perfectly for the occasion. Hepsie scarcely
knew how she got through that day—only
once was she self conscious, and that was when
Miss Andrews called upon her for the essay;—
she read it with all the eloquence and grace of
expression possible in one so young; her voice 
was clear and her tones finely modulated. It
was the climax, the crowning moment of the
day; the applause was more than her delicate
and over-wrought nature could stand, she
reeled and would have fallen had not a gentle-
man near noticing her nervous condition
quickly stepped forward, and supported her
until a glass of water was brought—when she
revived, and arousing herself realized the
ordeal, was passed; and summoning to her aid
that strong will power that proves so effectual
when called into action—she was herself again.
	Remarks from the visitors came next and
Hepsie heard all the comments and the criti-
cisms of these men of learning—on the work
of the young ladies, she felt embarrassed when
her efforts were praised and she ardently
wished for the exercises to close, that she
might be alone in her own room and "cry it
out." The prizes were distributed and the
school dismissed; almost every one of the
scholars were in tears, and the dignified teacher
much affected. After the school closed two or
three of the gentlemen with Miss Andrews
came forward to congratulate Hephzibah, ask-
ing Miss Andrews numerous questions as to
the plans for her future, and predicting a

[Column 3]

brilliant career for the little girl, if her health
did not fail under the strain of study.
	Hannah heard all, and treasured it up, often
telling her sister afterwards how proud she was
of her on that examination day; Hepsie her-
self cared little for it, her heart was elsewhere.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TREATMENT OF CHILREN.

	It is now about six years since the article
"Washed to Death" was published in the EX-
PONENT defining the injurious effects of wash-
ing little children all over every day, or giving
them a daily bath, and showing that it re-
duces the vitality, takes out the electricity and
weakens the whole system of children who are
thus bathed, and recommending that they be
bathed all over but once a week, using
spirituous liquors to rub the body.
	Many since then have become convinced of
the bad effects of bathing children so much
as it is customary to do, and have adopted
and acted upon the recommendations given in
the article above mentioned, until they are 
now so firmly convinced that nothing could
induce them to return to the former habit of
giving the daily bath. Their experience has
demonstrated to them that their children are
healthier, stronger and more vigorous, their
muscles firmer, the body more plump and solid
and that they are less liable to take cold.
	The grip of the fingers and strength to stand
better is noticeable, and the weaknesses that
most children have are not known by them,
but they can better stand teething and other
ailments that children are subject to, while
the death rate with them is far less than
among those who are washed so much. They
have also a more positive and intelligent look
in the eye and a livelier expression of coun-
tenance.
	Since "Washed to Death" was published I
have explained to many mothers of my ac-
quaintance the injury done to children through
washing them so much, and many, some of
whom were quite hard to convince of the hurt-
fulness of the old custom are now strong advo-
cates of the weekly bath and grateful for the
knowledge they have attained.
	The Allwise Creator made man perfect in
his organization and the electric glow on the
skin at birth should not be washed out and
the system relaxed.
	I have made this subject a study and can
speak with assurance that the greatest injury
is done to children by bathing them so often
while they are under two years old.
	Oh! that mothers and those having the care
of children would use good common sense in
all things, study and act in comformity to the
laws of nature, then they would not need to
consult a physician so often. They would
rear their children to enjoy a full develop-
ment of vigor, health and strength that they
might fill up a long life in usefulness with-
out so much feebleness, pain and sorrow.
		S. F. ATWOOD.
	Kamas, Nov. 15, '89.


Mrs. Jenness Miller and Miss Jenness are
about to open a physical culture school in New
York, which looks to the realization of Edward
Bellamy's idea, "that the millennium for which
the world waits is to come with woman's per-
fect developent." Methods of development
which aim at mere muscular culture will be
discarded, and the drill will consist of poising,
breathing exercises and gestures, the principles
that underlie correct postures in walking,
standing, sitting and talking. The pupils will
be drilled two hours daily, five days in the
week for grace, force, firmness, health and
beauty.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MINUTES OF OLD FOLKS PICNIC AND
BALL.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	For fear our friends in the North may be thinking
That because we have no brothers Goddard and Savage,
We can't have an old folk's picnic and ball,
I thought I would tell you a little about it.
For though we're a far away link in the chain,
We'er a link still and hope ever so to remain.
And we love all our old folks and honor them too.
'Twas at Mesa, November, the day twenty-nine,
Eighteen eighty nine of our Lord,
The hour was one, when the Hall bell was rung,
And the gathering quickly begun.
All the Stake was invited and I think they all came,
I mean all, who had passed the half century line—
And the widows were there in the hope to beguile
A lone hour, of their life darkened way.

	"O my Father Thou that dwellest
In the high and glorious place—"
Touched the hearts of the hearers, and wakened
Sweet thoughts of our dear Sister Snow.
B. F. Johnson the Chaplain, then opened the meeting
With prayer for the welfare of Zion.
Which was followed with singing
"Deal gently with the erring ones
We yet may win them back."
A variety progamme was then carried out—
There were speeches and songs, and a sketch of
The Mormon Battalion which was given by
Brother Brazee.

	One of our three-score and ten sang a song,
Mother Deseret we call her, and may she live long.
A serio-comic by Mabel Ann Hakes
Very much pleased the hearers, if I make no mistake
For this is from hearsay, I was not of the Band,
Who had reached the set mile stone of Wonderland,
Yet hearsay is taken in Court now I see,
When it happens to suit the said Court and his council,
Yet surely all life is a wonder or dream,
And things are but seldom what they seem.
I'm reminded of this by Judge Hake's declaration
After viewing with critic's eye the congregation at the Ball,
That there were no old folks there, unless it might be,
Philip Metz and Thomas B. Flanagan.
The time passed too swiftly and closed with the hymn
"Come let us anew our journey pursue."
And dismissed with prayer by the Chaplain.

	Then the Picnic held sway for an hour or more
With hand shake and jest by the friends of "Lang Syne."
Now what may come after from knowledge I give,
For I entered the Hall when the music tuned up,
And the call came to fill up the floor;
There were plain quadrilles and puzzling reels,
With a little waltz and Schottische:
And that dance which is vulgarly called polygamy— 
Which many indulged in and danced without fear,
For professor N—told us the Court was not here,
Perhaps I had better explain here a little,
For a change had come over the scene,
For silent and swiftly there had mingled among
The Silver, the golden and brown,
There were faces all smiles, untouched yet with care,
Whose radiance made brighter the Snowy crowns there.
We had more recitations interspersed with the dancing
More songs and more speeches too,
A fine recitation by our dear Sister Biggs,
And a fantastic polka by Aunt Lissie and Carl,
Which just brought down the house.
If you don't know Aunt Lissie, I'll just tell you here,
She is one of the genuine mothers in Zion.
With heart big enough to take in all the
Children, of this vast creation.

	I would I could speak of each one that took part,
And the lessons by each speaker given,
And pray that the lessons may never depart
From the hearts of the hearers.
"You have broke your poor old mother's heart,"
Brought tears to many eyes—
Oh would the wayward stop and think.
Ere they bow down the head with grief
That's snowy now and bent with care,
And give them joy, and not despair
May Fannie's "Voice from the poor house,"
Strike deep and take part in the struggle
To banish the demon of drink form our
Sorrow and grief stricken land.

[Column 2]

Now a word for the ones who projected
This treat for our aged, our fathers and mothers,
Much credit is due to Alma Spilsbury,
And those who so ably assisted,
May you reap what you've sown faith, honor and love.
When you stand where your guests stand today;
And the girls who with garlands entwined the Hall,
With all who aided both great and small,
To gather this ray of sunshine in
May you the blessings of heaven win.
		SEC'Y


EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.

TO MRS. WAREHAM, MANTI:

	It has fallen in my lot to labor in the Holy
Land. The question here, as I see it, is to gain
some foothold, first of all. That being done, a
vast field lies before us. The Jews are gather-
ing in thousands. Europeans flock here, in
order to colonize the country and to earn
money. The natives, mostly Arabs, swarm
about, and for all of these something should
be done by way of enlightening them on the
subject of the coming of our Lord and the
establishment of His kingdom. I am alone
to labor here and my capacity seems to be
but small compared to the vast labor that
should be done. But I trust in God in whose
hands are all the ends of the earth
and the inhabitants thereof. If I could
succeed only in gaining one point as a basis of
future operations, I would be happy, and con-
 sider my long journey well paid. To gain a
foothold is therefore my present endeavor.
And I hope to be able to say before leaving
Jaffa, now we have one place in the Holy Land,
from which our mission can be carried on as
God shall be pleased to direct it further. But
the first work is often the hardest and most
laborious.
	Jaffa or Joppa is the place where the
Prophet Jonah went on board a ship in order
to escape his mission to Nineveh (Jon. 1: 3.)
And here, Peter had the remarkable vision,
which commissioned him to baptize Cornelius
in Cesarea. (Ag. 10.) The house where Peter
lodged when he had this vision is still shown,
and the roof of the house is reached on an
ancient stair-case, leading from the yard of
the house and to the top of it. Here also
Peter resurrected Tabitha (Ag. 9.) Christianity
seems, therefore, very easily to have gained a
strong foothold in Jaffa, and it is to be hoped
that the spirit of the ancient inhabitants still
hovers over its present population. The Catho-
lics and the Protestants have missions here
and not without success, though their means
of making converts can not always be lauded.
	Well, I must not tire you with a too long
letter. I pray for the progress of the Relief
Society and that the spirit of God may be
poured out upon all the Saints.
		A brother in the Gospel,
			J. M. SJODAHL.
	Jaffa, Palestine, Sept. 11, 1889.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	Parowan Jan. 6, 1890.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In perusing your paper I do not see our
vicinity represented by the Relief, Mutual or
Primary Association therefore will take it
upon myself to inform our sister organiza-
tions of our progress in the grand cause that
stretches into eternity. The P. A. of this
Stake are generally taking a lively interest and
doing a good work toward inclining the twig
rightly and capacitating the tender mind to
grasp certain truths preparatory to the pro-
motion to the higher grade (viz) Mutual Im-
provement Association.
	On the last evening of the old year the P.


A. of this ward gave an entertainment con-
sisting of dialogues, recitations, music social
and instrumental etc. which was deserving of
great praise to both officers and members, also
a true exhibition of the bright intellect and
noble spirits given the children of the chosen
people of God; never in my life did those
beautiful words of the Savior seem more im-
pressive and appropriate. "For of such is the
kingdom of Heaven," my heart seemed over-
flowing with love and admiration for their in-
nocence and aptness causing my reflections to
rest upon the glorious mission given to woman
by a loving Father. Are we performing it
faithfully? do we realize what is expected of
us? or are we neglectful and allowing our abi-
lities and time to pass uselessly? Oh sisters
let us each strive unceasingly to do a just
part by the precious jewels entrusted to our
care for a season, and never be obliged to sadly
ponder upon "what might have been."
	Lest I usurp too much of your valuable
time and paper I will say au revoir.
	May Heaven's best gifts be yours.
		E. A. CRANE WATSON.
			P. A. Stake Sect.


NOTES AND NEWS:

	The King of Siam has just married twenty
new wives.
	Madam Carnot gave a Christmas party to
four hundred poor children at the Elysees in
Paris.
	Women have been admitted to the bar in
all the New England States except New 
Hampshire and Vermont. 
	Miss Annie Peterson has been awarded the
first degree of doctor of music which any lady
has gained at the Royal University of Dublin.
	Mrs. Leland Stanford, of California, has ob-
tain the permission of the Emperor William II
to have a copy made of the "Sistine Madonna"
in Dresden gallery.
	Miss Amelia B. Edwards will publish an
article in the January Century, giving the first
popular description of the recent extraordinary
discoveries in Bubastis, Egypt.
	Three Austrian women, sisters, have re-
ceived the degree of Doctor of Medicine, at
Berne, Switzerland, and two of them are now
practising in New York.
	A Woman's Press Club has been formed in
New York, with Mrs. D. G. Croly, ("Jennie
June") as President, Mrs. Lippincott ("Grace
Greenwood") First Vice President, and Mrs.
Mary E. Bryan, Second Vice President.
	Roberty Browning and Mrs. Browning were
among the early advocates of equal rights for
women in England, and while others are
mourning for him as the great poet, the advo-
cates of woman suffrage will sorrow for him
also as the friend of women. So says the
Woman's Journal and so say we.
	The sphere of woman continues to enlarge.
The latest evidence comes from Connecticut,
where a young woman has just been given a
license as a dispensing druggist. It deserves
to be added that she not only got her license
but passed the best examination that has yet
been had before the examining board.—Boston
Herald.
	At the University of Zurich last year twenty-
nine women studied medicine, fourteen philos-
ophy, and two political economy. In London
there were forty-eight women medical students.
In Paris there were one hundred and eight, of
whom eighty three were Russians, eleven Eng-
lish, seven French, three Americans, two
Austrians, one Roumanian, one Turkish.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 15, 1890.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The death of Dowager Empress Augusta of
Germany the wife of the late Emperor seems to
have been quite a sad event, although her years
were many. Her funeral was almost as elaborate
a state affair, as that of her royal husband.
	The Primaries of the People's Party will be
held in the several wards of the City Monday
evening Jan. 20, at 7. 30 p. m. for the selection of
delegates to the Convention which will be held
Monday the 27th, in the 14th ward Assembly
Rooms. A very great deal depends on the Pri-
maries. The delegates should be carefully and
wisely selected.
	The People's Party made a fine showing in the
torch light procession on Friday night Jan. 10,
when they turned out from the several wards in
full force, for a sort of general review. The
cavalry, marching clubs, guitar and mandolin club
and juveniles all in suitable dress with torch
lights, parading and keeping the best of time in
regular order presented quite a magnificent ap-
pearance. The music was excellent, selections
good, and the flags and banners with the brilliant
lighting of the torches and electric light with the
"beautiful snow" produced a gorgeous effect quite
dazzling. Each ward had a banner of its own, of
different design with appropriate motto, signifi-
cant of the cause of justice, equity and political
rights; some of the banners were very expensive,
made of costly material and all were very hand-
some. Everything was done in order, no carous-
ing or disturbance of any kind. Altogether the
affair was a decided success.
	The Utah Legislature met in the City Hall in
this City on Monday Jan. 13. at 2. p. m. and ef-
fected an organization of both the Council and the
House. Hon. F. S. Richards was elected Presi-
dent of the Council and F. J. Cannon Chief Clerk,
W. L. Halliday enrolling and engrossing clerk.
Other officers were also elected—Secretary Sells,
administered the oath to the newly elected of-
ficers, and prayer was offered by the Chaplain.
A committee of two Hon. A. Hatch and Hon. E.
Benner were appointed by the Council to wait
upon the Governor and inform him that the As-
sembly was organized.
	The lower House of the Legislature was or-
ganized with Hon. James Sharp Chairman, R. S.
Campbell Chief Clerk, John Boyden enrolling and
engrossing clerk. The oath of office was ad-
ministered by the Secretary, Hon. J. N. Kimball
and Hon. S. R. Thurman were appointed on the
part of the House to notify the Governor that the
Assembly was prepared to receive any communi-
cation be might have to make.
	After the transaction of some necessary busi-
ness the Committee that had been appointed to
wait upon the Governor returned and reported


that His Excellency was prepared to deliver his
message to the Assembly at such hour as might
be designated; four o'clock of the same day was
decided upon. At a few minutes past four o'clock
the members of the Council were seated in the
Hall of the House. The roll of each House was
called and the Chaplain of the Council offered
prayer. His Excellency the Governor was an-
nounced by a member of the Council Committee.
As the Governor entered the Hall the members
rose in token of respect. Pres. Richards an-
nounced that His Excellency would now deliver
to the Assembly his message. Governor Thomas
then read the document, which covers the ground
for the Legislature to work upon.


[Column 1]

A GOLDEN WEDDING.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Knowing that you and the readers of your
valuable paper really esteem very highly the ex-
ample of a well-spent life, and rejoice in the
merit won by the truly good, I take the liberty of
furnishing you a brief account of a notable in-
stance of family affection, reverence and respect.
	Just before the close of the past year the
golden wedding of Patriarch Rosel Hyde and his
wife Mary Ann, arrived and was celebrated at
their home in Kaysville by the assembling of their
three sons and four daughters with their wives
and husbands and several esteemed and valued
friends to do honor to the occasion. A more
heartfelt reverence for their great worth could
hardly have been realized. Father and mother
Hyde have proven themselves well worthy of the
profound respect manifest in the feeling tributes
of regard which welled up in the hearts of their
family. Not merely kindness but intense feeling
was exhibited in the greetings, and good wishes
expressed. The occasion was one, the recollec-
tion of which will never be effected. Here were
parents, fifty years of whose life in the duty of
marriage as husband and wife, father and mother
were spread out before the intimate criticism of
their intelligent children, now themselves grown
to the confines of the sere and yellow leaf, and
arrived at maturity of judgement, and yet not a
scene recalled which gave a reflection of injustice
or a wish that it had not been. Not passive but
active respect and a sincere wish that the child-
ren's lives might be as just, as prudent and worthy,
as the lives of the honored parents, was the pre-
vailing sentiment. And the following extract of
an address by one of the sons was heartly en-
dorsed:

"And the inspiration we imbibed from your counsels good
	and wise
Has kept us firm thus far in life to the goal before our
	eyes.
And whate'er of good and noble deeds we've done or yet
	may do
We've had the teaching first and the example set by you."

	Yon cannot yield much of your valuable space
to this item so I will not give details, but simply
say that the ample stores of Father Hyde fur-
nished turkeys, beef, mutton, pork &c. all of his
own raising, with other necessary items all
raised and made on his own premises, and that
the company assembled from the extreme north
of Cache Valley, the extreme west of Tooele
County and intervening parts, were royally enter-
tained and such a family reunion it is the privi-
lege of few persons to attend.
	Father Hyde is son of the late Heman Hyde of
the 13th, Ward of this City, and brother to the late
William Hyde of Hyde Park Cache, Co., and of
Patriarch Charles W. Hyde. Mother Hyde is the
sister of the late Elvira Smith Holmes who was
one of the plural wives of the Prophet Joseph.
	Grandma Elizabeth L. Hyde 79 years of age
composed and read the following;

[Column 2]

	Dedicated to Rosel and Mary Ann Hyde on
their Golden Wedding day:

	Five decades are past and gone
		Since you were young and blithe and gay,
	Then you agreed life's joys to share
		And chose your loyal wedding day.

	Eight sons and daughters good and true
		Are come from near and far away
	To greet their honored parents dear
		Upon their Golden Wedding day.

	A poet rare with golden pen
		Could scarce your worthy deeds portray,
	Yet I this simple offering bring
		On this your Golden Wedding day.

Yours respectfully
	H. H. S.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
	WOMAN'S PRIVILEGES.

	A woman's journal may very properly discuss
and advocate woman's rights, and she may lay
claim to them all as legitimately hers; more than
this, it may with equal propriety investigate what
are termed the rights of man, as relates to the
woman. In these she is equally interested as one
of the participants.
	Man from early ages of the world's history has
claimed superiority, and has oftimes allowed that
claim to assume the relations of master and slave,
and woman, man's helpmate, has been subjected
to menial servitude by her lordly master.
	The civilization of the nineteenth century has
given her an elevation more consistent with her
being and calling. But still the relics of the past
are not altogether discarded in her favor.
	It may be said and truly too, that it was the
fiat of the Creator that "he shall rule over her,"
in the relation of husband and wife, but what is
the object and nature of this rule—this right under
God to govern and control.
	Rule or government from this source never im-
plies subjugation, but always equalization. The
object of rule under the divine government is to
make the governed partakers of the blessings,
powers and privileges of those by whom they are
governed. The law of love, is the only rule that
ever gave man the right of control over any
human being. This law of love never degrades,
nor works any ill to another; never will deprive
any one of those rights with which nature and
nature's God have endowed them. It is the law
of Life.
	Even in the relation of husband and wife, that
which the nearest extinguishes individuality of
any relation that can be formed,the woman does not
neither can she lose her entity. She is still a con-
scious intelligent and an accountable being, pos-
sessing moral judgments of right and wrong,
which must influence her life, and will prompt her
acts, for which she is as strictly held accountable
as is the man for his; and her rights, even in
this relation, may not be disregarded nor be in
any-wise infringed.
	In this relation, man and woman may become
founders of a kingdom. All kingdoms have a law
given them, and all laws have their bounds and
conditions; and who can say that the woman is
not equally interested with the man in what those
laws shall be that are to govern the domain which
she has been the instrument in creating, which
exists with her and would not have existed without
her. She evidently has the right to a voice in
the making of those laws, and who shall deprive
her of that right? In and through her are de-
veloped the powers of the man.
	These principles may have an application outside
of the family circle. If they are facts to be regarded
there, they may be entitled to like regard in the
community, in society, in the state, or in the
nation. The family is the foundation of these


conditions of the race, and it is only just that wo-
man be recognized in her true character, and be
permitted to enjoy the exercise of all her rights
as an accountable free agent; in all her associa-
tions with the family of man to which she has
been assigned by her Creator.
	For man to recognize woman in her true and 
proper relation should be as pleasurable as
desirable. To associate her with all that is
elevating and profitable to man, seems to be her
legitimate place, both in social and spiritual de-
velopment. Not even a hope of future happiness
is worth cherishing that she is not identified with
in its realization.
	But while in fact she is a part of man, she is an
entity of herself, of which she cannot be deprived.
 The fact that the fundamental elements of one
being can never become those of another deter-
mines this entity, and in the light of this fact she
must be considered as well as in her relation to
man.
	As a free agent possessing a free-will she must
in her rights be respected. As a conscious being,
accountable for the wrongs of life, and susceptible
of the happiness derived from right doing, she
must not be infringed upon in that on which her
happiness depends. Man may claim her as his
own, but she is comparatively valueless to him in
any other sphere than that for which she was de-
signed.
	There is nothing that affects the happiness of
man in which the woman is not interested; no toil
or sorrow she is not willing to share. Her very
nature adapts her to her sphere, fitting her for all
its requirements. Her relations are necessary to
man's development, and while the laws and condi-
tions of her being are observed and respected by
man as her ruler, she is no failure in the purpose
of her creation, and is the glory—the crowning
gift of God to man.
		S. W. RICHRADS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

UTAH W. S. A.

	The Annual Meeting of the Woman Suffrage
Association of Utah was held in the Social Hall,
Saturday Jan. 11, 1890, commencing at 3 p.m.,
Vice Pres. Mrs Nellie R. Webber in the chair.
On the platform with her was the Ch. Ex. Com
Mrs. M. Y. Dougall and Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck
Mrs. C. H. Clayton Secretary and the Treasurer
Miss Margie Dwyer were also present. Prayer
was offered by the Chaplain of the day Mrs. E.
B. Wells. Mrs Webber said that the painful 
duty devolved upon her of stating in consequence
of the death of the daughter of Mrs. Alder the
Acting President of the Association, she could
not be present, and therefore she occupied the
chair; spoke most tenderly of the sudden decease
of Miss Nettie Alder,and expressed in a few well-
chosen words her regret, and the sympathy she
felt for those so sadly bereaved.
	The secretary then read the minutes of the Con-
vention held in October last, which were ap-
proved. Secretary and Treasurer's report for the
year were then read and submitted for approval
and accepted.
	Mrs. Webber stated that in order to transact
the business in hand it would be necessary to
move that the rules they had heretofore adopted
be suspended during the afternoon a motion was
then made to that effect and carried unanimously.
	Secretary read articles 3, 4, and 9, of the By-
Laws and Mrs. E. B. Wells moved the amend-
ment of article 3 so as to include an Assistant Sec-
retary, seconded and carried.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards moved the amendment of
article 4 that the initiation fee be 50 cts. instead
of 25 cts. seconded and carried.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne moved that the amendment
of article 9 be abolished and that it stand in its
original form, viz. that regular meetings be held

[Column 2]

once a month instead of once in three months as
per amendment; seconded and carried.
	The Chairman thought owing to the sad be-
reavement of the Acting Pres. Resolutions of
sympathy and condolence should be drawn.
	On motion of Mrs. S. M. Kimball a Committee of
three were suggeted to prepare suitable Resolu-
tions.
	A motion was made and carried that the Chair
appoint the Committee on Resolutions, the Chair
named Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. S. Richarhs,
Mrs. M. I. Horne.
	The election of officers for the ensuing year was
the next business transacted.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt nominated Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball President of the Utah Ter. W. S. A.
seconded and carried. Mrs. Jessie J. Jones nomi-
nated Mrs. Emily S. Richards First Vice Pres.
seconded and carried. Mrs. Nellie Little nomi-
nated Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck, 2d. Vice Pres. sec.
and carried. Miss Rachel Edwards nominated
Mrs. Caroline E. Dye, 3rd. Vice Pres. sec. and
carried. Mrs. E. B. Wells nominated Mrs. Phebe
Y. Beattie, Ch. Ex. Com. sec. and carried. Mrs.
P. Y. Beattie nominated Miss R. Edwards, Secre-
tary, sec. and carried. Mrs. M. Y. Dougall nomi-
nated Mrs. Julia C. Taylor, Cor. Sec. sec. and
carried. Mrs. A. D. Groesbeck nominated
Miss Margie Dwyer, Treasurer sec. and carried.
The following ladies were nominated and voted
upon separately as members of the Ex. Com.
Mesdames Cornelia H. Clayton, Margaret Mitchell,
Nellie Little, Theresa Hills, May Talmage. It
was decided that the Secretary be allowed to
choose her assistant.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells addressing the Chair asked
that Resolutions of Respect be drawn for Mrs.
M. J. Tanner, Pres. of Utah Co. W. S. A. re-
cently deceased. On motion of Dr. R. B. Pratt, the 
same Committee were instructed to draw both
Resolutions.
	The Committee on Resolutions withdrew and
during their absence Dr. R. B. Pratt read a
written address, which will be given in the next
issue of the paper, Dr. E. S. Barney made an
impromptu speech.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball took the chair: she felt
rather reluctant to accept the position to which
she had been elected, but intended to take hold of
the work with some system. Appreciated the
labors of the retiring officers, felt they had done
much good and were deserving of the gratitude of
all interested. Suggested that each member read
over six times the Constitution and that the Asso-
ciation take up the study of municipal govern-
ment so as to understand the nature and character
of its laws and requirements, etc., and this would
lead on and on until there would be an under-
stanning of all departments of government. This
would lead to our advancement and the enlarg- 
ing of our capacities. Remarked that she had
suggested to Mrs. Horne that the general meeting
of the ladies to be held next Saturday be turned
into a suffrage meeting and asked an expression
of the views of those present.
	Dr. Pratt acquiesced in the movement.
	On motion of Miss Edwards vote of thanks
was tendered to the officers of the past year.
	Mrs. Webber expressed herself in favor of the
suggestion made by Mrs. Kimball, read a portion
of a Circular and thought that to accomplish any-
thing creditable it would be necessary to have a
large enrollment of members, also sufficient means 
to send Delegates to the Convention at Washing-
ton to represent our own organization instead of
having others appointed to represent us.
	Mrs. Dougall, Mrs. Dye, Mrs. Lucy W. Kim-
ball and Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, each made in
teresting and appropriate remarks in brief.
	The Committee returned and Mrs. E. B. Wells
in behalf of the Com., submitted the following:

	At the regular meeting of the Utah Ter. Wo-

[Column 3]

man Suffrage Association held Jan. 11, 1890 in
the Social Hall in Salt Lake City the following
Resolutions were submitted:
	Resolved,—that the officers and members of
this Association in annual session assembled,
hereby tender to Mts. Lydia D. Alder their sin-
cere thanks for the valuable services she has 
rendered the Woman Suffrage Assoication of
Utah during the past year as the Acting Presi-
dent,
	And we do hereby earnestly express our grate-
ful appreciation of her arduous labors and the grand
efforts she has so cheerfully made for the ad-
vancement and success of this organization.

	Resolved, further that the officers and members
of this Association extend their heartfelt sym-
pathy and condolence to their late Acting Presi-
dent, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, who has by the hand
of an over-ruling Providence been called to sus-
tain such a severe affliction in the recent death of
a loving and affectionate daughter, and,
	Resolved, that we do hereby desire to most
fervently express the deepest sentiments of regret,
and sorrow for the mother and family who have
thus been called to part with one so near and
dear; and we solemnly beseech our Father in
heaven, to pour out the comforting influences of
His Holy Spirit in this hour of sorrow and mourn-
ing over this sad bereavement.
	Resolved: That a copy of these Resolutions
be placed upon the records of this Association
and a copy be forwarded to Mrs. Lydia D. Alder,
and that copies be sent to the 	WOMAN'S EXPONENT
and others papers for publication.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		EMILY S. RICHARDS,
		M. ISABELLA HORNE,
			Committee.

	Resolutions of Respect and Condolence adopted
by the Woman Suffrage Association of Utah Ter.
Jan. 11, 1890, to the memory of Mrs. Mary J.
Tanner, late President of the Woman Suffrage
Association of Utah Co., who died in Provo Jan.
8, 1890.
	Whereas,—It has pleased our Heavenly Father
to call from our midst by a sudden edict Mrs. M.
J. Tanner. who since the organization of the W.
S. A. of Utah Co., has served efficiently as
President of that branch of the W. S. A. of Utah
Ter., and,
	Whereas:—We feel heartily desirous and in
duty bound while acknowledging with due rever-
ence the Divine source of this call, to express to
all branches of this Association our sorrow and
also the respect in which Mrs. Tanner was held,
	Therefore:—Be it Resolved by the W. S. A. of
Utah in regular session assembled that we have
sustained in the death of Mrs. M. J. Tanner the
loss of an earnest laborer and an efficient officer
in our cause.
	Resolved:—That we hereby express our heart-
felt sorrow and sympathy for the immediate 
members of the Utah County branch of this Asso-
ciation whose chief officer has been taken away.
	Resolved:—That we extend our sincere con-
dolences to the bereaved family of the deceased.
	Resolved:—That these Resolutions be placed
upon the records of the Association and copies
thereof be forwarded to the family of the departed,
to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, the Utah En-
quirer and other papers for publication.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		EMILY S. RICHARDS,
		M. ISABELLA HORNE,
			Committee.
	On motion of Mrs. Webber the Resolutions
were accepted, and she also moved that they be
published in the EXPONENT and other papers and
that a copy be sent to Mrs. Alder, and placed
upon the records of the Association.


On motion of Dr. Pratt the Resolutions were
endorsed as read.
	An invitation was extended to all to join the
Association, and they were informed it was time
to renew memberships. Meeting adjourned for
one month, prayer by the Chaplain.
		CORNELIA H. CLAYTON, Secretary.


﻿WOMANS EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

			   CONSTITUTION
				OF	THE
NATIONAL-AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE AS-
			       SOCIATION.

				ARTICLE I.
	The name of this Association shall be THE 
NATIONAL-AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE AS-
SOCIATION.

				ARTICLE II.
	The object of this Association shall be to secure
protection in their right to vote to the women
citizens of the United States by appropriate 
National and State Legislation.
	
				ARTICLE III.
	Section I. All citizens of the United States
subscribing to this Constitution and paying not
less than one dollar annually into the treasury of 
this Association shall become members thereof,
and shall be entitled to attend all its meetings, to
participate in all discussions that may arise and 
to receive reports and other documents published
by it. 
	Section 2. The payment of fifty dollars ($50.00)
into the treasury of this Association shall con-
stitute any citizen of the United States a Life
Member of the Association, with all the privi-
leges belonging to the regular annual members.
				ARTICLE IV.
	Section I. The officers of this Association 
shall be a President, a Vice President at Large, a 
Recording Secretary, a Corresponding Secretary,
a Treasurer, a Chairman of the Executive Com-
mittee and two Auditors. The officers named in
this Section shall be nominated by an informal 
ballot at a business session of the Annual Con-
vention of the Association. Three persons re-
ceiving the highest number of votes for any
office shall be considered the nominees of the 
Convention for that office, and the will of the As-
sociation shall be taken by a formal ballot.
	Section 2. Wherever State and Territorial
Associations auxiliary to the National-American
Association exist, the Presidents of such Asso-
ciations shall be considered Vice Presidents of
the National-American Association, representing
therein their respective States and Territories.
	Section 3. Each State or Territorial auxiliary
Association shall elect from its membership one
person to serve on the Executive Committee of
the National American Association.
	Section 4. The President of the NATIONAL-
AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION
shall appoint a Vice President to represent on its 
Executive Board any State or Territory where no
State or Territorial Association exists auxiliary to 
the National-American Association. 
	The officers enumerated in the preceding Sec-
tions of this Article shall constitute the Executive
Committee of this Association; of these officers,
fifteen shall constitute a quorum for the transac-
tion of business.
	Section  6. The Executive Committee shall 
elect annually from the veterans of our cause ten
or more Honorary Vice presidents.
				ARTICLE V.
	This Constitution may be amended by a ma-
jority vote at any annual meeting, notice of the
amendment having been given at any preceding 
annual meeting. 
				BY-LAW I.
For the accomplishment of the object specified

[Column 2] 

in Article II of its Constitution, this Association
shall seek to concentrate the efforts of all the ad-
vocates of woman suffrage in the United States by
the following methods: (1) It shall hold annually
in Washington one meeting of delegates (accord-
ing to the basis of representation stated in By-
Law II) for the transaction of business, the elec-
tion of officers and the advocacy of its principles;
and it may hold one or more other Conventions
annually for the advocacy of its principles. (2) It 
shall form State or Territorial Associations 
auxiliary to itself in every State and Territory 
where none such now exist, and, recognizing the
authority of its auxiliaries in their respective 
States and Territories, it shall promote their local
work by every means in its power. (3) It shall 
publish tracts, speeches and other documents, and
shall furnish the same to State and local Suffrage
Associations and to individuals at actual cost.
(4) It shall prepare and circulate petitions to 
Congress and to State and Territorial Legisla-
tures on behalf of the political and civil equality
of women. (5) It may employ one or more or-
ganizers and lecturers, and take such other 
measures for the promotion of woman suffrage 
as the Executive Committee shall determine
upon, subject always to the will of the Associa-
tion.
	BY-LAW II.—BASIS OF REPRESENTATION.
	Section I. Any State or Territorial Woman
Suffrage Association, and (in a State or Territory 
where there is no State or Territorial Suffrage
organization auxiliary to the National American
Woman Suffrage Association) any local Woman
Suffrage Association may become auxiliary to the
National-American Woman Suffrage Association
by paying into the treasury of the National-Ameri-
can Association annually twenty-five cents (25) 
per member of its entire membership.
	Section 2. It shall be the duty of the Treasurer
of each auxiliary Association to send to the
Treasurer of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association, before January 1st in each
year, a list certified to by its President or Record-
ing Secretary of the members of said organiza-
tion for the current year. 
	Section 3. Every such Auxiliary Association
shall be entitled to send three delegates to the 
Annual Convention of the National-American
Woman Suffrage Association, and one delegate
in addition for every twenty-five members above 
a membership of fifty. The delegates actually 
present may cast the whole number of votes to
which the Auxiliary Association is entitled.
	Section 4. Any State or Territorial Woman
Suffrage Association which is not auxiliary to the 
National-American Association may send one 
delegate to the annual meeting of the National-
American Association.
	Section 5. All officers of the National-Ameri-
can Suffrage Association shall be ex-officio dele-
gates at large, and every such officer shall be en-
titled to one vote in all the business meetings of 
the Association.
	Section 6. Where there are two State Societies 
in one State, both of them auxiliary to the
National-American, the President of each shall 
be a Vice President of the National-American;
and each shall elect its own representative on the 
National-American Executive Board, and be en-
titled to one delegate for each twenty-five mem-
bers.
		BY-LAW III.—CREDENTIALS.
	All delegates (except the delegates at Large
specified in Section 5 of By-Law II) must present
credentials properly signed by the President and 
Recording Secretary of the organization repre-
sented. Membership cards properly signed by 
the Treasurer of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association shall serve as credentials
for the members of that body who are not dele-
gates from other bodies.

[Column 3]

				BY-LAW	IV.
	The Executive Committee of the National-
American Woman Suffrage Association shall hold
one session preceding the opening of each annual
Convention in Washington and another session 
after the conclusion of such Convention; and the
Committees having in charge the arrangements for
the Annual Convention shall always take cogniz-
ance of such meetings of the Executive Committee
and make provision for them.
				BY-LAW V.
	The decisions reached by the Executive Com-
mittee shall be presented in the form of recom-
mendations at the business sessions of the Con-
vention.
				BY-LAW VI. 
	Every delegate shall be entitled to one vote on 
all questions, but only on the election of officers
shall the delegates be entitled to cast the full vote 
to which the organizations represented by them 
are entitled. 
			    BY-LAW VII.
	The Committee on Resolutions shall consist
of one person from each State and Territory
elected by the delegation from the organization 
represented. 
			  BY-LAW VIII.
	At the concluding business session of each
Annual Convention the President of this Associa-
tion shall appoint the following Committees, each 
Committee to consist of three persons, viz.: a
Committee on Credentials to have in charge the
credentials of delegates to the next Annual Con-
vention; a Committee on Program to arrange the
program for the next Annual Meeting, and a 
Congressional Committee to have in charge the
direct Congressional work during the year which
shall intervene between the time of its appoint-
ment and the next Annual Convention in Wash-
ington.
				BY-LAW	IX.
	The report of Treasurer up to the 1st of January
preceding the Annual Washington Convention
shall be read at the first business session of that
body.


SALT LAKE STAKE
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Salt Lake Stake was held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms December 19th 1889,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding. On the
stand were seated Pres. Zina D. H. Young,
Mrs. B. W, Smith, Mrs S. M. Kimball, and
Mrs. E. Howard the Secretary. Meeting
opened with singing.
		"We thank Thee O, God for a prophet,"
	Prayer by Mrs. Margaret McMaster. Singing,
		"Do what is right the day dawn is breaking,"
	Roll called 15 presidents, 12 counselors 2
teachers responded. Verbal reports in brief
given as follows 2nd ward Mrs. McGreger,
3rd Mrs. Frances Smith, 6th Mrs. E. Britton,
8th Mrs. E. B. Fletcher, 9th Mrs. M. Barrow,
10th Mrs. E. Paul, 11th Mrs. McMaster. 12th
Mrs. Julia Druce, 13th Mrs. L. A. Wells, 14th
Mrs. M. W.  Wilcox, 15th Mrs. M. E. Gray,
16th Mrs. Diana Reid, 17th Mrs. B. W. Smith,
18th Mrs. Ellen Barton, 19th Mrs. Ann E.
Neal, 20th Mrs Sabine 22nd Mrs R. Whipple,
Union, Mrs. Cox.
	Pres. Horne then made some instructive re-
marks upon the duties of those holding official
positions, and also to mothers in regard to the
training of children while they were very
young. Conference then adjourned until 2 p.m.
singing Doxology. Benediction by Mrs. B. W.
Smith.
	Afternoon Session: Meeting opened with
singing,
		"O my Father thou that  dwellest,"


Prayer was offered by Pres. Zina D. H.
Young, singing, 	
		"O, God we raise to Thee,"
	Verbal reports were continued—1st, Ward,
Mrs. M. Steele, 7th, Mrs. Cooper, Draper, Mrs.
C. Smith, Herriman, Mrs. Crane, Sandy, Mrs.
Wilson North Jordan, Mrs. Webster, Bluff-
dale, Mrs. Madsen, Brighton, Mrs Ottilie
Schonfeld, Sugar House, Mrs. Sarah Gibson.
	After the reports were given Pres. Geo. Q.
Cannon addressed the assembly, he stated that
he fully realized the importance of the or-
ganization, of the Relief Society, and what an
immense amount of good could be effected by
the sisters, “we have not time to be idle, there
is no limit to the field of good you occupy, all
the best talent can be put to use; we have a
large number of young people among us. On
the mothers depends the training of the child-
ren, and the development of the characters of
their offspring; they can impress on their minds
ideas that will be for future use. My parents
were not members of any sectarian system,
still my mother was strictly religious, inclined
that way. One of her strict precepts was to
keep the Sabbath Day, I have tried to live
to this, if I had my wish we would have
no work done on that day, no cooking, no working
of our animals, everything to be at rest. It is
a day for rest and worship: we ought not to
poison the minds of our children by unwise re-
marks against any principle of our religion.
the seeds of infidelity have been sown by un-
wise remarks; we all carry an influence with
us; can we not feel when making a visit in
some families a spirit of quiet and peace, and
if you feel bad when going in you leave happy
and at ease, in other places you will have the
opposite feeling; the atmosphere we carry with
us will be felt, we should shun evil society and
evil deeds. I feel I ought to speak in plain-
ness upon the associations of young people be-
fore marriage; it is a wide field for your
training. Chastity should be preserved as life,
far better for a girl to die than lose her virtue,
better is it for a man to die than injure a
daughter of Eve. It is from inexperience
often that such things happen, we should teach
them to look on such as next to murder, long
courtships are wrong, it leads to great evil.
I speak of this as a timely topic, create a public
opinion against long courtships, and get a
feeling of early marriages, it is a wrong idea
for our girls to get, that they must have every
luxury before marriage, love makes a desert
place a palace. It is all well enough if the
parents can get the style for their children,
but if they can't let the young people get by
degrees, the comforts of life and they will ap-
preciate them; if we would raise a healthy
race let us be chaste, mothers teach your
daughters and fathers their sons these things;
let us impress upon our children the necessity
of keeping from beverages that are not fit for
us to use, habit grows stronger as we grow old;
let us foster good thoughts, good words and
help make an improvement in ourselves and
others. I would like if we had schools in our
Territory for educating our girls in every
habit of industry, sewing, cooking, housekeep-
ing; there is no man or woman that is not im-
proved by practical labor. This is a fact that
people can be made cross or happy by cook-
ing, make a nice clean table neat and tidy, it
is little things that contribute to woman’s
happiness; we have the best fruits, the best
flowers, the best vegetables, that many women in
other countries would be very glad to get
We can all improve on the gifts God gives us,
we can develop those gifts if we try, and edu-
cate ourselves in these things; some of you
thought you could not speak in public, but you
have found out that you can by seeking to de-
velop your gift.
	Pres. Z. D. H. Young said “this is the work
of woman, our Heavenly Father sent us His

[Column 2]

Son to show us the mercy we should show to
each other. We expected our souls to be fed
this day, we have been, let us not be dis-
couraged, there are bright days before us, let
us carry home with us the good teaching we
have received from Pres. Cannon, may we all
be impressed to help in this great work.
	Mrs. B, W. Smith: “I pray that God may
bless all the Latter-day Saints; this is a fast
age, everything is rolling on most gloriously."
	Mrs. S. M Kimball: “A great deal of good
has been said, we would love each other more
if we knew each other better, Brother Cannon
has said we each of us have a spirit influence,
we can detect influences when passing by habi-
tations where the spirit of God dwells.”
	Pres. Horne: “Let us put in practice what
Brother Cannon has taught us today and be
benifitted by what we have heard,” she then re-
lated an incident in her experience which was
very interesting and instructive. Women
have great influence, we are entering upon a new
era in our history. I hope we will all as a
people keep the solemm fast which has been ap-
pointed for us to attend. Brother Woodruff
sent his best regards and prayers to the sisters
by Brother Cannon.
	Conference adjourned for three months sing-
ing,
		“Guide us O, thou great Jehovah."
	Benediction by Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon.
						E. HOWARD, Sec’y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LEHI W. S. A.
	Pursuant to a call the ladies of Lehi met
in the Relief Society Hall Thurs. Dec. 19,
1889 to organize a branch of the W. S. A
Mrs. Rebecca Standring was elected tempo-
rary chairman and Mrs Sarah T. Evans Secy.
Mrs. Standring announced the object of the
meeting.
	Singing. “My country ’tis of thee." Prayer
by the chaplain Mrs. M. A. Comer.
	The secretary then read the call after which
the following officers were elected. Mrs. Mary
Ann Webb, Vice Pres. Mrs. Sara T. Evans,
Secy. Mrs. Laura Cutler, Chairman, Mrs. M.
M.	Gaddie, Josephine Brown, Mary Ann
Standring, Sarah A. Karrew, executive com-
mittee.
	The secretary read the constitution of the
N. W. S. A. which was unanimously adopted.
The by laws and regulations as adopted in
Utah Co. were also read and adopted. 
	Vice Pres. M. A. Webb thanked the assembl-
age for the honor that had been conferred upon
her. It was one duty to convert the men as
well as the women to the necessity of the
women having the franchise. We in Utah
have had the franchise and can appeal to his-
tory to prove that we never abused it, but used
it wisely and intelligently always standing
bravely for the right. As mothers it is our
duty to understand politics. We should be
able to instruct our sons and daughters that
they may understand their rights and privi-
leges as American citizens. Believed the day
was not far distant when the women would en-
joy their rights of the ballot.
	The following address was then delivered
by Mrs. Mary M. Gaddie:—
	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:—
I stand before you to address you on the sub-
ject of women suffrage. I am proud to see
the women feel that they have rights. Let us
go to work with a determination never to give
up until we gain those rights.
	I have studied this subject and asked my-
self the question. “Why are women not
allowed to vote as well as men.” There is but
one answer. The women have never asked
 for the right. It is true that a few noble
women in the nation have been working for
it many years but a large majority have

[Column 2]
thrown their influence against it, and said "I
can trust to men to do my business.” “What
can women do anyway?” The reason they
talk thus is that they do not seem to under-
stand that they have any rights only those
which men give them. I assert that women
have done as much towards making this
nation what it is to-day as men have. This is
a broad assertion but I expect to substantiate
it before I get through. When Columbus was
inspired with the belief that there was a
country on the other side of the ocean men
scorned the idea, but a noble woman grasped
it and helped with her means to give him an 
outfit to go on his exploring eqpedition. There-
fore, we give women the credit for the dis-
covery of this good land. When the discov- 
ery was made men began to gather here from 
all the European world, and as they could
not get along without the women, they came
too. They suffered all the privations and
hardships that men did. They went to work,
the women with the men, and soon began to
prosper; as they prospered they became inde-
pendent, growing stronger as the years rolled
by. All these years they had been paying
taxes to England, but they became tired of
this as they were not represented in the mother
country, and “taxation without representa-
tion,” was their war cry. Ladies, that is one
condition to-day and has been for over a hun-
dred years taxation without representation.
The colonists went to war and gained their in-
dependence. When war the was over the men
formulated a constitution for the government
of the people and declared that all were created
free and equal, and the rights of life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness were guaranteed
to them.
	Then emigration took its march toward the
setting sun. Woman had been declared free
and equal with man. She must go with him
through the wilderness, across the deserts,
through a country filled with savages. She
 was equal with him in all the trials and hard-
ships of pioneer life. They never stopped their
onward march until they landed on the
Pacific coast, by this time women had helped
to build up a great nation. The men had
held the reins of government with a firm and
steady hand. They made all the laws and
administered them, created all the offices and
filled them all with men. And what else has
woman done besides sharing the hardships.
She has reared presidents, senators, congress- 
men, legislators, governors, judges, lawyers,
and warriors to fight the nation’s battles, in
fact every other class of men that compose
this great nation, and yet she has never been
allowed to cast a vote for the sons she has
reared to fill these high and exalted stations.
Yet this is a great and powerful nation there
is none other on the footstool of God that
equals it. Its glory and grandeur shine far
and wide. All nations are invited to come to
this "land of the free and home of the brave,”
and yet at least one half of her citizens have 
never been allowed the right of franchise, and
there is a dark spot on the horizon of its great-
ness. The women of the nation have been
looking at that spot. They find it is a star
with a veil over its face. That star is woman’s
suffrage. We want to remove the veil and
let the star shine forth with all its brightness
and prove to the world that this is indeed and
in truth a land of the free and a home of the
brave women as well as men. The sovereign-
ity of this nation is rested in the people.
Women as well as men are its sovereigns. The 
lawmakers are their servants.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	As women have shared equally with men in
all the trials and hardships of building up a
nation until its greatness knows no bounds, is
it not fair and just that she should share  in
the honors and emoluments?


Ladies:— 
	Our cause is so just, that conquer we must.
 Let this be our motto, in God is our trust.
	Mrs. Laura Cutler was heartily in favor of 
woman suffrage.  As woman was in the be-
ginning created as a help-meet to man, it was 
only reasonable to suppose that she was en- 
dowed with equal intelligence that she might 
be an able assistant.  It has been said by 
some misanthropist, "a woman was always at 
the bottom of all trouble.” She is most cer-
tainly at the head of that which is honorable.
Without her whence would have come the pil- 
grim fathers, the patriots of the revolution, the
framers of our glorious constitution?  Through
all those trying times when our Independence
was in its infancy, who went hand in hand
with those patriots as they fought for their 
rights?  Who comforted and sustained them
and prayed while they fought?  Who endured
the hardships of those perilous times side by 
side, with the men traveling across the track-
less plains and bravely bearing their share of 
the burden.” The women all honor to them. 
Since the first woman's convention which 
was held at Senecca Falls N. Y. in June 1848 a
few have been struggling for the right of 
suffrage until now the movement is general.
It is said, a woman will always have her way. 
If this is the case, when the women of a nation 
are united they stand a good chance of getting 
what they ask for.  We want the right to say 
who shall hold office and make the laws we 
are governed by.  As we in Utah have held 
the franchise, we feel most keenly on the sub- 
ject.  If we expect to rear sons who will be
able to uphold and sustain our great and 
glorious constitution in all its purity we must 
prepare ourselves so to do. 
	Hon. Geo. Webb said “It is evident we 
must concede the point that in intelligence,
women are the equal of men, as we have seen 
by, those who preceeded me.” If the ladies of
the nation are united in this movement and
each converts her husband the victory is won.
That women will have their way is fully rec-
ognized in the lobbys of Congress.  Women
succeeding where men fail.  If mothers wish 
their sons to become politicians, they should be 
able to teach them.  A mother’s influence
over her child is boundless.  Many of our
prominent men and eminent politicians ac-
knowledge that their success is due to the in-
fluence of mother or wife. 
	Franchise is conferred by law and can be 
withdrawn by law.  Congress holding that 
power over us as a territory.  If Utah were a 
state (with the leading men we have to-day) 
the ladies of Utah would enjoy the franchise. 
	Mrs. Josephine Brown considered the sub- 
ject of Woman Suffrage a very important one. 
We should understand our positions and be 
united on this movement.  Let our motto be 
“United we stand, divided we fall.” 
	Mr. John Woodhouse spoke upon the con-
dition of women in past ages and of their 
present advancement, until now we find them 
equal with men in almost all the walks of life. 
It is claimed that women would have a purify-
ing effect on politics, but he considered 
American politics so rotten they were past 
redemption.  A different and better state of 
affairs must soon prevail and when that time 
came women would undoubtedly obtain their
rights.
	Bishop T. R. Cutler was proud of this or- 
ganization.  In all departments of life he be- 
lieved women were as reliable as men. They 
had proven themselves capable in various 
positions.  Had heard of female cashiers in
banks but not yet of a female defaulter. It 
was the duty of the ladies to maintain their
rights.  Had never heard an intelligent reason
advanced why women should not vote.  If the
women held the franchise many evils that
now exist in our midst would be abolished.

[Column 2]
	Mr. William Southwick was in sympathy 
with this movement and endorsed the senti-
ments that had been uttered.  Spoke upon the
condition of politics in the United States. 
	Through the industry of the ladies they 
could accomplish anything.  Believed the day
was not far distant when the ladies would 
have the franchise. 
	The meeting adjourned for one month.
	No of members enrolled 137.
		SARAH T. EVANS, Sec. pro. tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


The Ex-Empress of Brazil died suddenly of
heart disease at Oporto, on December 28. and
it is said that all Europe is in mourning for
this gentle spirit, whose only sin was the
crown she wore. Her heart was broken when
she was driven from Brazil, and change of air
and scene could not save her, she had been
Empress forty-seven years, and had spent her
long married life in assisting her husband in
contributing to the charities of her adopted
country, and watching over the education of
her daughters and their children. She always
held aloof from the affairs of the State; was
greatly loved by her people, for her charities
and good works were innunerable. In, every
way she was an exemplary woman and Prin-
cess. The news of her death came as a great
shock to the people in Brazil. Monarchists
and Republicans alike mourn deeply over her
untimely death. The regret is very general as
she was so greatly loved.-


IN MEMORIAM. 
	We are called upon to chronicle the death of a beloved 
sister and friend. Martha Ashby wife of W. H Ashby 
and daughter of Albert and Lettie Stevens.
	She was born April 12th 1867, at Holden, Utah, and 
passed peacefully away Nov. 7, 1889. She leaves a daughter
six weeks old and many relatives and friends to mourn 
her absence.
	We feel to say to those who mourn:
		Weep not for comes soon the drawing
		Of that bright and happy day,
		When we may receive the bodies 
		That have long been laid away. 
								EMILY MCKEE.


OBITUARIES.	
	Died at Losee, Garfield Co. Utah Sunday Dec, 1st 1889,
of cancer in the breast, Eliza Jane Losee Cox; aged 47
years 3 months and 21 days. Deceased was the daughter 
of Isaac and Sarah Losee, and the widow of the late Or-
ville Cox. Was a true Latter-day Saint. and departed
this life in full faith of a glorious resurrection. 
					Respectfully,
							JOHN M. DUNNING. 
	At Morgan City Morgan County, Utah, Jan. 8th, 1890,
of neuralgia of the heart, Eliza Lissette Ursenbach Comp-
ton, beloved wife of George Compton. Deceased was the 
daughter of William and Phebe Durrant and was born 
July 6th, 1844, at Deanshanger Northamptonshire England.
Emigrated to Utah in 1896.
	She lived the life of a Latter-day Saint and peacefully 
fell asleep in full hope of a glorious resurrection.
										    P.D. 
Millenial Star please copy.


A SAD DEATH.
	Died in Salt Lake City, November 17th 1889. Sylvia 
beloved wife of Walter C. Lyman, and daughter of John 
and Ane Lovell, born at Deseret, Millard Co. Jan. 9th 
1867. She leaves with her stricken husband, two bright
little boys and in the same grave with her sleep two sweet 
little babes.
	She was well known and dearly loved at her home in Oak
Creek, Millard Co. She was an energetic and faithful 
teacher in the Relief Society of that ward and Counselor 
to the Y. L. M. I. A. for some time and in the ward 
choir her sweet voice was heard singing the songs of 
Zion.
	She is missed more in the home circle, where her kind 
and loving disposition endeared her to all and nothing


but the comforting influence of the Gospel can resign her
friends to their great loss.
	Bless and comfort, O, our Father
		Those who are so sorely tried
	For so many hearts are aching
		Since our own, dear Sylvia died.
	Bless and comfort, Thou, her husband
		And her little boys so fair;
	May they each prove true and faithful
		Till they meet her, "over there."
	Bless, Thou all the stricken loved ones
		Of dear Sylvia pure and fair
	Guide us all O Heavenly Father,
		Till we meet her, "over there,"
								A. E. L.


UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,  
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS,             J. V. PARKER,
City Pass. Agt. 	       Div. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
        112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 18.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1890. 		No. 17.


CONTENTS.
	A Plesant Day—Annie V. Cannon.  Hephzibah.
Miscellaneous.  R. S. Reports—Scofield—Emery
—Maricopa—Utah. Women of the Bible—Adelia
B. Cox Sidwell.  Resolutions of Respect—To
Mary Jane Tanner.  Obituary.
	Editorial: — Election Day.  Birthday Honors
The Old Folks Entertainment.  Remembrance.
R. K. Thomas’ New Store. Enthusiasm.—M. E.
K.  Thoughts Suggested by Utah Courts—H. M.
Whitney.
	Poetry: — Unfinished. — L. M. Hewlings.
Afraid—Lu Dalton.  One Word.—Walter Bruce.
Our Soldier Boy—Lula Sharps, and Flats—
Eugene Field.  'Twould Fetch Em—Columbus 
Dispatch.


For the Exponent;
	        UNFINISHED.
I had put by work unfinished,
	Aye, laid it quite out of the way,
Thinking that sometime in earnest,
	I could finish without delay;
In Autumn perchance, or Winter,
	When the Summer had passed away--
When nothing would come to hinder,
	Of work to be done or play.

Then heedless	I followed pleasure,
	Thro' witching walks of idle sport.
With never a moment's leisure,
	To pause for the unfinished work;
Fresh blooming in Spring’s fair garden,
	Were flowers of the brightest hue,
Opportunities seed golden,
	That glisten’d with morning dew.

But I paused not then to gather,
	Gay butterflies around me flew,
And careless I followed after
	With ne’er worthy a aim in view.
Yet time with its busy fingers,
	Kept sewing the leaves of Day,
'Till volumes of cheq’ered pages
	Stern history had borne away,
Chronicled annual record,
	Faithfully of merit or of shame,
Recorded temptations resisted—
	Every deed, of praise or of blame
Each volume was blurred and blotted,
	With Sweet Mercy's pitying tears;
For she had kept watch unceasing,
	Throughout all the swift flight of years.
When all were folded and numbered,
	With record of	good and	ill;
I saw by the light of conscience,
	My work lay unfinished still.
					L. M. HEWLINGS,


FOR THE EXPONENT:
				AFRAID.
Mysterious fate has decreed my lot
	'Mong a region of girls and boys,
With hungry young souls asking wherefore and what,
	With small, acute griefs and joys;
With inquisitive finger and restless feet,—
Deep love of pure fact and deep scorn of deceit;--
	Oh, wonderful	girls and boys!

They come from the Father's fashioning hand
	Most beautiful, winsome and wise;
His love in their hearts more than ocean sand,
	And the light of His truth in their eyes,
They see but the beauty and joy of life,	
The whole world to them is with glory rife,
	Oh, envy these girls and boys!


But, no, they must learn, and may it be well,
	Long lessons both bitter and sweet;
And here are they clustered, and I, for awhile,
	Must feed them, as Peter “My sheep.”
They ask me for bread, shall I give them a stone?
Dare I trifle with them who are God's very own—
		His precious own girls and boys?

With scale seldom erring, my lightest word
	They fearlessly, gravely weigh;
By fear or by favor quite undeterred,
	They judge me from day to day;
I dare not be slothful, untrue or weak,
Their bright eyes such strong condemnation speak;—
		Oh, terrible girls and boys!

These eager, young spirits are hurrying on,
	Athirst for the tumult and strife;
All crowding and panting in haste to be gone,
	To join in the battle of life,
They know not the ambuscades laid in the way,
	Nor the wounds and groans in the heat of the fray;--
		Oh, pity the girls and boys!

Then who is to arm and give strength to their hands,
	And point out the snares in the way?
That safely they pass thro’ the foe's routed bands,
	And fall not, the slain in the fray?
O skill, and O wisdom, attend and give aid;
The task is so mighty it makes me afraid!
		My beautiful girls and boys!

What if through my weakness one soul be lost?
	One pair of fleet wandered astray?
Of the heavenly jewel who knoweth the cost?
	And what to my Lord should I say?
Could I join in the songs of the blest without tears
While the cries of the lost ever rang in my ears?
		 The cries of my girls and boys!

Dear Lord, give me wisdom to guide as I ought,
	A few days, these dear ones along;
To warmly encourage each high; worthy thought,
	And tenderly weed out the wrong.
If I be found worthy the mansions above,
Oh, grant that my welcome be kisses and love
	From these very girls and boys!
							Lu Dalton.
Manti, U.T.


A PLEASANT DAY.
	The morning ride had been most enjoyable
affording fine panoramic glimpses of the
Thuringian mountains and now ending at the
beautifully situated city of Eisenach in the
midst of the Thuringian forest.  It was still
early morning when we alighted from the
train.  Every thing looked fresh and beauti-
ful and seemed to bid us welcome on this
bright, clear spring morning, when the foliage
wet with April dews glistened and glimmered
in the sun's first rays.  Just a step or two to
the cleanest and pleasantest little hotel where
a wash and a generous German breakfast re-
freshed and prepared us for a long busy day's
work.  Unlike so many who attempt to "do"
all Europe in one season we had loitered along
the way enjoying everything to the uttermost,
until our time was well nigh spent and we
could allow ourselves only one day for this in-
teresting city with its wonderful, romantic and
historical environs; still, happening to be the
second visit for one of us, no time need be
uselessly spent.  Here not far from our hotel
near the town's entrance stands an old Roman
tower called—St. Nicholas—we stop a few
moments to look and admire, not so much the
structure as its defiance of time, for through
all these decades, nay centuries, it still main-

[Column 2]
tains its ancient granduer and silently but
forcibly recalls to the stranger the history of the
Romans and their glorious exploits under their
greatest of leaders—the immortal Caesar.  We
pass by with only a glance, the most magni-
ficent home of some high born German, with
such beautifully laid out gardens that we long
to enter but other points of interest like
magnets draw us on through the narrow wind-
ing streets until we pause in an open place
before an old, queer house where a tablet tells
us that here in 1385 John Sebastian Bach was
born, a humble birth place for one, whose name
in grandest, soul-inspiring notes is ever re-
sounding from the sacred cathedral walls
throughout the universe.
	Passing along the busiest streets my com-
panion suddenly touches my arm and point-
ing to a small house, which by the red and
white stripes one always knows to be a barber
shop, laughingly says, "It was there I encount-
ered the crazy barber who had it not been for
the mirror before me which reflected his
maddening look just as the razor cut my
cheek, would probably have taken my life.  In
a second I sprang to my feet clutched him 
around the throat and hurled him in the op-
posite corner, then rushing to the door with
my face still bleeding I hailed a policeman
who informed me that only a few weeks be-
fore had this very barber been released from
an insane asylum."  Fancy a government so
strict in almost every instance allowing an
insane man to practice a profession requiring
such dangerous tools.  "However the incident
was not without its charm, happening on the
day of the "Burchenfest" Oct. 18, when
students from all parts of Germany visit the
Wartburg Castle my scarred face gave one an
impression that I had but recently been en-
gaged in a duel and therefore I became the re-
cipient of marked attentions.
	Passing through the different streets we
occasionally pause before a monument now in
commemoration of the victory of 171 and then
to the honor of some king or hero; here in
Carl Street is the birth place of Friedrich
Preller, the painter, and there the house where
Luther lived with Frau Ursula Cotta, while at-
tending school, but the day is passing, we
hurry on through the crowded streets out to
the broad road passing the charming villa,
where once lived Fritz Reuter, a low German
poet, on to the delightful old castle the one
great attraction of Eisenach—The Wartburg.
The old castles and towers we had previously
visited were mostly ruins and unoccupied, but
the Wartburg is in good preservation and parts
of it occupied during certain seasons by the
grand ducal family.  To attempt a descrip-
tion of the interior would be too long a task,
so many long rooms and corridors with quaint
and interesting frescoed walls and massive
carved ceilings, I can only stop to mention the
rooms that interested me most.  The castle is
said to be a fine specimen of the Romanesque
style and though more than eight centuries old
still maintains its original shape.  The ban-
quet hall is a very beautiful room, the finest
I believe in all the castle, and the little chapel
is so unique and pretty that upon entering
one immediately feels a desire for worship.
The Sangersall is a large interesting room,
beautifully decorate with arabesques and
figures of minstrels with quotations from their
ballads; this was the room in which the great
contest between the rival minstrels of Ger


many were held. The armory almost
frightens one with its shining armor looking
like a hall of ghouls as the bright figures stand
staring with empty sockets but we needs must
enter here just to see the armor worn by
Martin Luther when he returned from Worms
and was led to this castle by his friend the
Elector, Frederick the Wise. Our interest is
now turned towards that part of the castle made
famous, and we might add sacred,by the pres-
ence of the great reformer, with only a passing
glance we enter and leave the Elizabeth Gallery,
the Remenate, or Grand Duke’s rooms, stop-
ping awhile in the Reformation rooms to look
at the pictures telling with their shades and
colors the different incidents in Luther’s life,
until finally we reach a little room, where
for the moment one almost believes Luther
himself is there, so well preserved are all the
furnishings, there is his desk, his chair, his
drinking cup, his book case, his portrait and
his letters. Here in this very room at this
little carved table he sat and worked for
nearly a year at his Bible Translation. What
a wondrous work that year produced, a work
to last forever and carry with it through the
ages the name of Martin Luther.
	The close attentions of the guide in this
room were rather annoying, he appeared to be
watching us, but I did not wonder later, when
looking closely at the furniture I observed that
many small pieces had been split out of it ap-
parently with a pen knife and the guide told
us, tourists had done this. What sacrilege to
mar and ruin beautiful relics for the sake of
enriching a little private cabinet. On the
wall is a large spot void of plaster, it is the
place where Luther under an hallucination
fancied the devil was trying to stop his work
and threw his ink bottle at him. Visitors
have scraped every particle of ink-stained
plaster from the wall, we suggested the idea of
replastering and throwing another ink stand
on it for the benefit of tourists, crazy for
curios.
	Looking from the south tower is a charming
view of the Thuringian Forest and I longed to
leave the high dark walls of the old castle
and penetrate into the shades of that forest the
home and heart of romance. The old songs
and legends seemed to echo down the glens
and as the setting sun cast its bright rays
among the shimmering leaves, and along the
rippling stream I fancied fairy sprites and elves
were sporting among the long graceful ferns.
The shadows of the tall dark pines lay plain
and distinct upon the verdant hills and the
approaching twilight lent a dreamy charm to
the forest walk.
	We descended from the main road down a
winding path over stones and bushes into a
wooded ravine, called the Annathal or Anna
Valley, where we entered a narrow cleft or
gorge. On either side the high precipitous
rocks were clothed with a more luxuriant
growth of ferns and mosses than I had ever
dreamed of, and the water trickled down the
sides and flowed under our feet making so
clear and loud a sound, that I surely thought
the crust of earth on which we walked would
break, and force us into a raging river. For
a hundred and fifty yards we walked through
this fairy home and then once more reached
the main road and turned our steps towards
the city. The forest shades were growing
darker and denser every moment and not
until the bright light of the city welcomed us
back could I throw aside the dreamy fanci-
ful feeling that the whispering leaves
and murmuring waters had imparted to me.
The day was done. 
					ANNIE W. CANNON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


None but the brave deserve the fair.—John
Lyrden.


[Column 1]
	       	    HEPHZIBAH.	
              		   XIV.
	A winter day, and cold the wind and shrill,
		The snow was falling, when a little hand,
	Came slowly winding down a gentle hill,
		And by an ice-bound brook in groups they stand.

	Hespie Hathaway needed repose after the
examination which had been very trying to
one so sensitive to influences, but events were
crowding fast upon her and she little dreamed
what changes the next few months would 
bring in her life.
	A day or two after the school had closed,
Miss Andrews the preceptress called and bade
her favorite pupil good bye. It was a sad
leave-taking for Hepsie,—for although Miss
Andrews assured her she would return sometime
Hepsie felt she should never see her dear
teacher again, and could not refrain from
telling her so in the most impulsive way; she
gave the girl many parting instructions telling
what she should expect of her in the next few
years; and finished by saying "you will far sur-
pass me in a literary way. Let me hear from
you by letter" and so they parted never to meet
again. 
	On the following Monday Hepsie was at
home with her mother and little brothers and
sisters. Mrs. H was so happy in her new-
found faith that she talked of nothing else.
In fact it was the topic of conversation
throughout the whole village. Old and young
and ere long forty or more had been baptized.
A branch of the Church was organized and
regular meetings were held. Many striking
instances of the gift of healing had been mani-
fested, and great interest aroused upon that
particular point of doctrine.
	The Elder of whom Mrs. H. had writen to 
Hepsie had visited B. and returned to Boston
but was expected again shortly and Lucy
Reynolds as well as Hepsie's mother and
others felt sure she would be converted under
his teaching. Hepsie listened to them but did not
enter into their enthusiasm on the subject as
her mother had anticipated. She exhorted her,
wept over her, prayed for her and still made
no perceptible impression.
	Lucy Reynolds had confided in Hepsie con-
cerning the matter of obtaining her letters from
Henry and the girl had promised to use every
honorable effort to get possession of them. The
opportunity came, Henry learning from his
sisters that Hepsie had gone home, he paid
a visit to the village to find out how Lucy was
and how affairs were for he had heard a 
rumor that Mr. W. just graduated was going
to marry Lucy and take her out West among
the Mormons. He called on Hepsie to ascer-
tain whether these reports were true. It was
just what Hepsie wanted, to see him and talk
with him and if possible secure the letters.
During his call she inquired how he could have
given Lucy up so easily. He replied "Hepsie
I loved Lutie" (for so he called her) better
than I ever shall love again, but I could not
think of associating with a girl, who had no
more respect for herself than to join such a low
degraded set as the Mormons.,'
	"Well but suppose your sisters were to be
converted to the new religion?" said Hepsie.
"I would disown them or my mother either!"
Hepsie felt this was the moment and she pro-
ceeded to open the budget, "Henry as you so
thoroughly despise the Mormons and all that
pertains to them you certainly do not care to
keep any thing of theirs?" I don't understand
you I never had anything belonging to one
of them neither would I!" "But you have Henry
I can prove it to you and moreover I want
you to promise to give them to me!" "Give
you what I have not, or ever had impossible!"
"It is not impossible and it is quite true—
Lucy is a Mormon and you have her letters,
[Column 2]
you have broken the engagement so sacred to
you two,—you will not even see her, although
you came to see me because you knew I
would be in her confidence, and you certainly
do not want the letters: Lucy has the same
ideas of propriety in all things she had before
her baptism and she does not think it proper 
for a young man, who is not her friend even
to have letters written when they were under
promise of marriage to each other."
	Henry was silent and almost sorrowful
tender hearted little Hepsie nearly relented,
but she summoned up courage and continued
as she saw he made no attempt to speak.
"Henry do you think it right to keep a
young lady's letters, love letters too, under
such circumstances have the goodness to
answer; and besides do you feel that you have 
been manly in summarily breaking this engage-
ment because of a difference in belief? You
will never get Lucy’s equal go where you will
and I don't believe you will ever be happy
either." 
	Slowly and evidently somewhat affected
with the scene Henry rose to go and holding
out his hand to Hepsie said  “Lucy has a
friend in you Hepsie and I admire your
“grit—” but look out the "Mormons," don't
capture you too." "But the letters Henry?"
She shall have them Hepsie and mine "he
added," she may burn." "Good-bye Hephzibah
don't give up your bright future for Mormonism
remember I warn you."
	How was it that every one who came to
see Hepsie warned her to beware of the faith
her mother had accepted, it was so contrary
to all the teachings of her life time, children
were instructed to give heed to the advice of
parents to follow their example, now things
seemed to have suddenly changed To day
when Henry plead with Hepsie not to yield
up her bright future, her emotions were
aroused and her sense of honor as she thought
impeached. She felt her mother who had
stood so high in the estimation of all must
know as much or more of right and wrong,
truth and error as Henry, and in fact she al-
most despised him for his lack of courage in giv-
ing Lucy up. She began to wonder what sort of
men and women conposed society and whether
it was all false a mere sham without honest
foundations, to stand upon; she recalled the
days when she sat on the "old settle" by her
grandfather, and his tales of daring courage
and how love over came all—and for a moment
she felt as though the foundation stones upon
which her theories had been built were giving
way. Yet in this even her trouble was more
for her friend than herself—although she
could now plainly see that unless she received
the faith her mother had embraced separation
was sure to come.
	Sometimes Fate or an unknown power decided
for us peremptorily matters over which we
hesitate and so it was with Hepsie. Ever
since she had returned from the school her
mother had sought to impress her with the
truths of the Gospel, and on  the other hand
messages were being continuously sent her, and
friends urging her not to be baptized by a
Mormon.
	One Sunday Morning Elder Mc’G.—walked
into the meeting unexpectedly and was invited
to speak—it was in the house of one of the
members whose family had all been converted.
The sermon was an eloquent inspirational
one, such as Hepsie had never heard, and the
entire congregation were almost electrified.
Several people came forward after meeting
and asked for baptism, and after some con-
sultation it was decided the ice should be cut
in Mrs. Hathaway's brook and the ceremony
performed there. The evening was spent in
hearing explanations of doctrine from Elder
Mc’G.—and it was late when the company of
inquirers dispersed. The morning dawned a


last but Hepsie had never closed her eyes, so
intensely was she wrought upon by what she
had listened to.
	Two powers were warring with her, one said
“Obey your mother, go down into the waters
of baptism in the little brook that always
seemed a sanctuary,” the other said “do not
heed the sayings of your mother or the Elders,
a brilliant future awaits you, you must not
make this sacrifice." This and much more the
tempter whispered in her ear. When the
time came she went with the others who had
gathered at Mrs. H’s down the hill to the edge
of the water or ice, and as she stood there all
the time the same subtle powers were striving
with her. Two or three of the chief men of
the village came and spoke to her “Are you
doing this of your own free will and choice?"
she only replied in monysyllables and heeded
not the crowd, the wind blew fierce and
whistled down through the hemlock grove
above a sort of chant, it soothed her, she felt
the sympathy it brought, it was like a strain
of rare old music, and it gave her fresh courage,
seven had already been immersed and her name
was called, some one took hold of her arm—it
was one she had known and reverenced, one
who had been specially kind to her, the father
of her dear friend and champion, Jane—the most
influential man in the County—“Hepsie he
said come away you are but a child, you must
not make this great sacrifice"—the sentence 
was unfinished,—Hepsie saw the Elder standing 
in the icy stream waiting for her—she went
towards him it was but a step—her heart gave
a great sob—the words were pronounced with
great solemnity, in a moment it was over,—the
crowd, dispersed, and the little band of men
and women had gone up one after another
when the ordinance had been performed, to the
house to change clothing. Hepsie was the last
—and silently she returned to the house and
was soon ready seated with the others for con-
firmation. It had been an exciting time,
Hepsie’s mother, cool and collected as she had
always seemed, had been very nervous, lest
at the last moment Hepsie should waver and
refuse as some others had done after having
come prepared to go into the water. Hepsie
did not at all comprehend the situation, she
had no conception of the obstacles that would
beset her path more and more from this time 
forward.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ONE WORD.
	BY WALTER BRUCE.
"Write me an epic," the warrior said—
"Victory, valor, and glory wed."

"Prithee, a ballad," exclaimed the knight—
"Prowess, adventure, and faith unite."

"An ode to freedom," the patriot cried—
"Liberty won and wrong defied."

"Give me a drama," the scholar asked—
The inner world in the outer masked."

"Frame me a sonnet," the artist prayed—
"Power and passion in harmony played."

"Sing me a lyric," the maiden sighed—
"Lark-note waking the morning wide."

"Nay, all too long," said the busy age,
"Write me a line instead of a page."

The swift years spoke, the poet heard,
"Your poem writ in a single word."

He looked in the maiden's glowing eyes,
A moment glanced at the starlit skies,

From the lights below to the lights above,
And wrote the one-word poem—Love
				Blackwood's Magazine


OUR SOLDIER BOY.
"I'm a Soldier!" cried our four year-old;
	"A soldier! don't you see?
I belong to the People's Party, though,
	That is the side for me."

And he looked a hero every inch,
As good as our land can afford;
On his prancing "Fire-fly" rocking-horse,
	With his wooden gun, and sword.

A feeling of gratitude comes to us,
	As we think o'er our rights and wrongs,
That our infant soldier knows so well,
	To which party he belongs.

For there's now and then a man we meet,
	Who deems the out-look dim,
And scarcely feels prepared to say,
	Which side is the side for him.

At eve, as the children's bed-time came,
	They were taking off their shoes,
When we heard expressed some farther hints
	Of our little soldier's views.

Speaking of something they wanted, one
	Asked 'How shall we get it now?"
"Why pray for it!" our soldier said,
	"Ask the Lord for it—that's how!"

Wise little Soldier—and brave, is not
	The People's Party strong,
With hundreds and thousands such who knows
To which party they belong?

We kissed the darling, o'er and o'er,
	Who shall measure our hopes and joys?
God keep them honest and brave and true,
	Our People's Soldier Boys!
								LULA.


SHARPS AND FLATS.
		COBBLER AND STORK.

[Cobbler.]-Stork! I am justly wroth,
			For thou hast wronged me sore;
		The ash roof-tree that shelters thee
			Shall shelter thee no more!

[Stork.]—Full fifty years I've dwelt 
			Upon this honest tree.
		And long ago (as people know!)
			I brought thy father thee.
		What hail hath chilled thy heart
			That thou shouldst bid me go?
		Speak out, I pray—then I’ll away,
			Since thou commandest so.

[Cobbler.]-Thou tellest of the time
			When, wheeling from the west,
		 This hut thou sought'st and one thou
				brought'st
			Unto a mother's breast;
		I was the wretched child
			Was fetched that dismal morn— 
		'Twas better die than be (as I)
			To life of misery born!
		And hadst thou borne, me on
			Still farther up the town,
		A king I'd be of high degree,
			And wear a golden crown!
		For yonder lives the prince
			Was brought that self same day;
		How happy be, while—look at me!
			I toil my life away!
		And see my little boy—
			To what estate he's born!
		Why, when I die, no hoard leave I
			But poverty and scorn.
		And thou hast done it all—
			I might have been a king 
		And ruled in state, but for thy hate,
			Thou base, perfidious thing!

[Stork.] —Since, cobbler thou dost speak
			Of one thou lovest well,
		Hear of that king what grievous thing
			This very morn befell.
		Whilst round thy homely bench


Thy well-beloved played,
		In yonder hall beneath a pall 
			A little one was laid;
		Thy well-beloved's face
			Was rosy with delight,
		But 'neath that pall in yonder hall
			The little face is white;  
		Whilst by a merry voice
			Thy soul is filled with cheer, 
		Another weeps for one that sleeps
			All mute and cold anear;
		One father hath his hope,
			And one is childless now;
		He wears a crown and rules a town—
			Only a cobbler thou!
		Wouldst thou exchange thy lot
			At price of such a woe?
		I’ll nest no more above thy door,
			But, as thou bidd’st me go.

[Cobbler.]—Nay, stork!  thou shalt remain—
			I mean not what I said;
		Good neighbors we must always be, 
			So make thy home o’er head.
		I would not change my bench
			For any monarch’s throne,
		Nor sacrifice at any price 
			My darling and my own!
		Stork! on my roof-tree bide, 
			That, seeing thee anear,
		I’ll thankful be God sent by thee
		Me and my darling	here!
					     EUGENE FIELD.
London, December, 1889.


TO ORGANIZED SUFFRAGISTS.
To all Organized Suffragists Throughout the
Territory:	
	It is especially desired that you send, im-
mediately, a report stating the number of
members, and the work accomplished during
the past year; that our delegates may be able
to report the same to the National Convention
to be held in Washington next month.
			SARAH KIMBALL,
						PRESIDENT.
			RACHEL EDWARDS,
						SECRETARY.
Address:  55 N, W Temple St.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	God’s mills grind slow but sure.—George
Herbert.

	When Greeks joined Greeks,then was the tug
of war—Nathaniel Lee.

	Life is not so short but that there is always
time enough for courtsey.—Emerson.

	Act well at the moment and you will have
performed a good action to all eternity.—
Lavater.

	Those who live on vanity must not un-
reasonably, expect to die of mortification.—
Mrs. Ellis.

	Nature loves truth so well that it hardly
ever admits of flourishing.  Conceit is to nature
what paint is to beauty— it is not only need-
less,but impairs what it would improve.—Pope. 

	Compliments of congratulation are always
kindly taken, and cost one nothing but pen,
ink, and paper.  I consider them as draughts
upon good breeding, where the exchange is al-
ways greatly in favor of the drawer.—
Chesterfield.

	Conscience is too great a power in the nature
of man to be altogether subdued; it may for a
time be repressed and kept dormant, but con-
jectures there are in human life which awaken
it; and when once re-awakened it flashes on the
sinner's mind with all the horrors of an in-
visible ruler and a future judgment.—Blair.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		Editor.	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
extra for postage postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communication to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 	

	Entered at the Post Office, in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	February 1, 1890.


'TWOULD FETCH 'EM.

If registrars were ladies,
With eyes as black as Hades,
	Fair and petite,
	With laughter sweet,
As many a Buckeye maid is,

A simple invitation
To come for registration
	Would bring all men
	With ink and pen
With trifling hesitation.

Whate'er the voter's trade is
Or his complexion's shade is, 
	He’d go and sign
	In rain or shine,
If registrars were ladies.
				Columbus Dispatch,


ELECTION DAY.
	Monday February 10th, is the Municipal Elec-
tion of this City and there has never before been
a time when so much depended on the election 
of officers. Every man who is registered and
qualified to vote should be on hand and remember
that "eternal vigilance is the price of liberty."
It will no doubt be an exciting time and coolness
and activity should be maintained whatever may
occur, disorder, confusion and undue excitement
are out of place at a time when great issues are
pending.  The People's Party know well from the
disclosures of the last few weeks, that no stone
will be left unturned to carry the City by the
"Liberals."  But God is greater than man and
can turn and overturn as seemeth Him good— 
and though the "Liberals" laugh and scorn the
God of battles, nevertheless the walls of Jericho
fell when the people obeyed the word of the
Lord.  Just so sure will the Lord deliver His
Saints in these last days in His own due time, and 
there is no need to fear the power of man, but to
buckle on the whole armor of righteousness and
be prepared for whatever difficulties seen or un-
seen beset the way.  The bravest men are ever
the coolest, and "the race is not to the swift nor
the battle to the strong," but "wisdom is better than
weapons of war," and "discretion is the better
part of valor."


BIRTHDAY HONORS.

	Yesterday January 31st, was the anniversary of
the birthday of Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, General
President of the Relief Society throughout the
Church, and also of Mrs. Jane S. Richards, her
First Counselor.
	A few sisters met by invitation at the residence
of Mrs. Young’s daughter, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beattie
to spend the afternoon and evening in honor of
the happy occasion. There were about twenty


guests in all and the time passed off delightfully
in exchanges of greetings and conversation until
the “five o’clock tea" was announced, which was
a very social affair, handsomely served, and the
viands were most delicious. When supper was
over a sort of informal meeting was held Mrs.
Presendia Kimball, sister of Mrs. Young, and
herself a veteran Mother in Israel in her 80th,
year presiding.
	After singing the hymn "O, my Father," prayer
was offered by Mrs. E. Howard, another hymn
followed and the sisters gave expression in brief
of their love, and good wishes and blessings for
“Aunt Zina,” as she is lovingly called by her “dear
five hundred friends” and many more.
	The gifts of the Gospel were poured forth to
the joy and comforting of all present. It was a time
of refreshing from on high, trials and cares were 
forgotten and joy and love for the Gospel and 
each other reigned supreme in the hearts of all 
present.
	"Aunt Zina" was also the grateful recipient of 
gifts and mementos from the loved ones assem-
bled there and from absent friends. She also re-
ceived a telegram of congratulations and respect
from Apostle F. D. Richards, and altogether the 
day was one long to be remembered.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards we are informed had a
a party given her at home in Ogden, and was hon-
ored with similar attentions quite equal to those
Mrs. Young received here. Mrs. Richards was in-
vited by Mrs. Beattie to come to Salt Lake and 
participate in the party, but other arrangements 
had no doubt been made beforehand to celebrate 
the day.
	The writer offers sincere congratulations to
Mrs. Young and to Mrs. Richards, and wishes
for both not only many happy returns of the day
with health and good wishes but success in the
labors of love, they are engaged in for the uplift-
ing of humanity.


THE  OLD FOLKS' ENTERTAINMENT.
	On Friday, January 24, ult. the Old Folks Com-
mittee gave an exceptionally good entertainment
in the theatre to widows, orphans and all old peo-
ple over 70 years of age; it was a pleasant sight
to see these aged people enjoying to the utmost
the play, songs and music. Then the children
who occupied the third circle were so quiet and
orderly, and repressed the cheers and applause
that would doubtless have been vociferous enough
had it not been for a promise exacted from them
beforehand by Brother Goddard, that they would
be quiet for the sake of the dear old people who
could not stand a noise and confusion.
	The play given as a benefit on this occasion
was "The Chimney Corner," and several of the
actors who used to appear upon the stage in the
earlier days of the drama in Salt Lake, gave their
services for the old people's delectation. Phil
Margett's rendition of the part he carried, really
the principal part, was done to perfection—he
acquitted himself admirably throughout, and the
others seemed quite at home in the performance.
It was all very creditably done and a suitable
play.
	Brother Dunbar's character singing, carried one
back to the time when he was really young and
in his prime.
	There were other excellent parts of the pro-
gramme and all so smooth and harmoniously
arranged; the guitar and mandolin club looked
handsome and played sweetly, the Old Folks
Choir gave choice selections in their very best
style, and Mrs. Silverwood sang, "Dear heart
we're growing old," Mrs. A. O. Thomas warbled
exquisitely a Norwegian selection, and we must
not forget to mention the two little drummer boys
in soldier costume who played so well, and
looked so charming; Masters Leslie Clawson
and Frank Barrell. This Winter pastime fo


those whose lives are a sort of humdrum exist-
ence when the weather is too severe for them to
get out, is a blessing indeed, and gives them
something pleasant to think of for days after-
wards.
	The Committee deserve great credit for their
thoughtfulness of, and solicitude for the aged, and
their own days will be happier and their spirits
more serene for the tenderness, love and honor
they have shown the dear old  people from time
to time.


A REMEMBRANCE.

	The sudden death of Mrs. Mary Jane Tanner,
of Provo, Jan. 8th, was quite a shock to all her
friends as well as immediate relatives. The de-
ceased was widely and favorably known and was
a most useful and gifted member of society.
	The writer of this was well acquainted with
Mrs. Tanner when a girl scarcely more than a
child, and from that time until the present, though
since her marriage dwelling some distance apart,
a social and friendly interchange of feelings and
ideas has been kept up by means of correspond-
ence and occasional visits.
	Mrs. Tanner was known by many through her
poetry and other writings, who never had the
pleasure of meeting her personally and her com-
forting words have been to them a solace in the
midst of sorrow and trials. Her book entitled
"Fugitive Poems" has been circulated through-
out the Stakes of Zion and also in other parts of
the country; she has been an occasional and at
times a regular contributor to the EXPONENT from
the time it was first issued, and the readers of
the paper will miss her gentle, poetic expressions
and her strong and emphatic writings on the wo-
man question.
	A brief sketch of her mother's life, by Mrs.
Tanner was published in the paper as a sort of
serial a few years ago under the title of "Jesse
Burns or Was it Fate," and was favorably com-
mented upon at the time. Mrs. Tanner was
talented in many other ways besides possessing
the precious gift of poesy—she was practical and
executive in all the affairs and transactions of life.
She was an excellent President over the Relief
Society and that position requires tact, discern-
ment, discrimination and executive ability as well
as a vast amount of patience and faith. These
gifts she possessed and turned to good account.
She will be greatly missed in the community and
especially will her loss be felt in her own ward,
and her own home where she was surrounded
with love and looked up to as the guiding star.
Of her we can truly say "Her children rise up
and call her blessed, her husband also and he
praiseth her."


R. K. THOMAS NEW STORE.

	R. K. Thomas the popular dry-goods merchant,
has removed from the Eagle Emporium building
to the new five story Culmer block 26, 28, 30, and
32 East, First South Street,where he has fifty feet
front of plate glass, and the room is not only well
lighted and elegant in appearance, but is fitted
up in the most commodious and handsome style,
with modern improvements in the way of arrang-
ing and displaying goods of all descriptions, that
are sold at retail in a dry-goods house; silk,
dress goods in great varieties, white goods of all
kinds, embroideries, laces, hosiery, gloves, muslin
underwear, shoes, slippers, ladies, childrens' and
men's furnishings, boys' clothing and fancy goods.
The basement is the same size as the salesroom
above, and fitted up conveniently for the sale of
heavier goods of various kinds such as carpets
rugs, etc, and is quite light enough for showing
the goods to advantage, in fact as light as many
stores. Mr. Thomas himself is certainly one of


the most genial and affable men in business and
that has much to do with his success. He has
had a large experience in the mercantile line hav-
ing been buyer in New York and Eastern markets
for a large and wealthy establishment in this City
for fifteen years. He is bound to succeed if push,
energy and enterprise coupled with honesy, af-
fability and those fine qualities of head and
heart that are recognized everywhere as the true
mettle.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ENTHUSIASM.

	Another pleasant morning is refreshing after
the storm of rain and enthusiasm which came so
profusely last evening. 
	It was quite enjoyable to see the earnest and
persevering zeal manifest, not heeding the rain
storm which came quickly down, the wind having
ceased the torches burned brightly, better than I
should have supposed while rain was pouring
down. Yet true and loyal hearts were beating
beneath the wet jackets.
	Thus we are proven from time to time to test
our integrity and prove our energy for our
Father's cause. Not being enthusiastic myself
I wondered how I could drink into the spirit of it
so deeply; believing as I do that honest en-
deavors with sincere and devoted hearts will
wear well; and in a case of emergency will be
all one can ask for or need to win a good cause.
	But at the present time we are driven to what
shall I say: desperation, yes if I may use the term.
Only think to be looked upon as mean, low-lived,
the off-scouring of our Father's footstool; which
we know that we are not, but quite the opposite.
Our principles will not admit of such a character
because they are the best set of rules ever given
to man.
	Do you ask by whom made? I answer, they
were framed by the King of heaven when he
lived upon this earth, and the only rules which
will fit us to come into His Kingdom. Should
not we then be up and doing, earnest and sincere?
Have not we proven them to be the best for over
forty years? Does not reason and common
sense teach the same?
	Yet we are so easily satisfied with this world,
that we would not take time to weigh the subject
as we ought, or give it its true value. Accord-
ingly the opposite spirit must be permitted to
awaken us to duty. Only think we are not ac-
counted fit to become citizens of the United
States, or make our homes on public lands. Well
if we are not I should like to know who is?
							M. E. K.
Jan. 26, 1890.


[column 1]

THOUGHTS SUGGESTED BY RULINGS 
OF UTAH COURTS.

     My thoughts I persume have been similar to
many others upon the singular, though not in the
least surprising, decision of Judge Anderson
against the "Mormons" who are "in good stand-
ing."
     The next "monstrous measure" being ahead of
the infamous Idaho test oath is only another mani-
festation of their folly.  Their weakness is never
more visible than when undertaking to handle
the "Mormon" question.  The feebleness of their
understanding concerning its doctrines and prin-
ciples, as shown by those sitting upon the judg-
ment seat, and the aims of the people upon whom
they have passed judgment is truly pitiful; and
they appear ludicrous to those who are versed in
the things of which they show such ignorance
really it makes one smile, particularly in the high
toned, and would be autocrats who are anxiously
looking for the downfall of the "Mormon" church.
It would be well for the devout students, and 
teachers of Bible lore, whose superior knowledge,

[column 2]

virtue, and godliness leads them into the humane
act of "religious persecution," instead of spend-
ing so much precious time in trying to pervert the
fulfillment of God's Holy mandates, to read up
the scriptures, and also to post themselves on
"Mormon" history, with the gathering of Israel in
the last days.  Concerning it said the prophet
Isaiah: "Fear not, for I am with thee; I will
bring thy seed from the east, and gather them
from the west; I will say to the north give up; and
to the south keep not back; bring my sons from
far, and my daughters from the ends of the
earth."  "Mormonism is being disseminated by
the cries and reports of our enemies a thousand
times faster than it could be otherwise, for they
will go where "Mormon" missionaries are not
able at present to gain access.  Could they but
realize this and their own position with the cer-
tain failure of their schemes they would be utterly
chagrined.
     I was forcibly struck with the resemblance be-
tween the words of Judge Anderson in his final
decision against the naturalization of "Mormons"
"in good standing," and those of the Jews when
accusing and condemning the Savior with His
teachings.  They deemed them sacrilege, and
accused Him of being a deceiver, a wine-bibber,
of having a devil, and all manner of accusations
were laid at His door.  And when He said "If ye
were Abraham's children ye would do the works
of Abraham," they reviled Him saying, "We
know that God spake unto Moses; as for this
fellow, we know not from whence he is?" It
seems that His words were misunderstood, and
misconstrued just as are those of His servants to-
day.  Though their teachings are but scriptural
doctrines, taught in the Holy record which
Christian professors hold up as the only guide to
eternal life, they condemn them as if originating
from other sources, and their own ignorance of the
spirit and meaning of the scriptures is made mani-
fest.
     They have in seeking to do an evil brought into
public notice many a sacred and lasting truth
which, like gold however much it is trampled
upon will live, and polished or unpolished will cut
its way and accomplish its destiny.  Satan was
never noted for wisdom, and his armor-bearers
like himself never fail to overshoot the mark.
     Will there be found no beam in the eyes of the 
Christian advocates of persecution, the instigaters 
and makers of more stringent laws against the 
"Mormons" that they will need no mercy shown
them?  Are the crimes and iniquities laid at our
door so much greater than those in other cities
from whence comes the VAN who vaunt of their
advanced civilization the "chaste and pure" who
fear(?) contamination if the dreadful "Mormons"
are allowed an existence upon mother earth?  Not
if their own journals speak the truth.  Were all
their sins of criminal nature, degradation and
lawlessness gathered and laid open for the inspec-
tion of this delectable Judge—who, of course has
but their welfare in view, there could be no com-
parison between the condition of the ill-famed
"Mormons" and that of society outside.  When
one sided and warped officials can occupy the 
judgment seat, who will sustain those who
practice trickery and corruption, reserving the
punishment due such to be heaped upon the 
victims of their wrath, against whom the most
mischievous of falsehoods are propogated and
sent adrift to stir up prejudice.
     Some of these apostate traducers of the dead
and the living have times innumerable volun-
tarilly borne witness to the truth and godliness
of "Mormonism."  Then to turn and deny, and
declare it to be false is proof of the value to be
placed in their word, as they must at one time
or the other have testified falsely, and therefore
their testimony would not have been accepted in
an honorable court.
     Cowards will fly their colors at the approach of

[column 3]

danger, and they are to be pitied.  But for loyalty
and reverence to the laws of this land, and its
emblem of freedom to all nations, there is no
blemish upon the roll of "Mormon" history.
     We of all others have the greatest cause to love
and cling to the Constitution that was formed under
Divine inspiration, and the land endeared to us
by a thousand fond recollections and of which we
have an ancient record that it is the "land of
promise" on which Zion is to be built up, "the
church of the first born," which cannot be des-
troyed though the whole universe is arrayed
against it.  This faith is only strengthened by op-
position.  The obstacles that have been met, and
surmounted, and the things that are being wit-
nessed to day is adding to it and driving the
people together.
     The judgments were to commence at the house 
of the Lord, and Latter-day Saints can bear wit-
ness to the fact that they were the first to suffer
from mobs in the United States, they burned their
houses, robbed, drove, murdered, and committed
the most fiendish, inhuman acts, not only upon
men, but delicate, helpless women and children,
to which I and others, who are living martyrs for
the truth can testify, and to the scenes of suffer-
ing, sorrow, and privation during the days of our
pilgrimage, which could never be written except
in the eternal Record, but are indelibly stamped
upon the memory of those who participated, and
their health like my own wrecked for life in con-
sequence.  These wrongs were never redressed,
neither in Ohio, Missouri, or Illinois, and being a
loyal, patriotic people we were naturally wrought
upon by the keenest of reflections upon those
grievances and gave voice to them and our heart-
burnings caused by the unjust and unnatural treat-
ment received at the hands of our countrymen
under a government that should have succored
and redressed the wrongs that they had done us.
But this did not cause us to secede, the first
thought of the Pioneers when they had pitched
their tents upon this then Mexican soil, was to 
show their allegiance by placing our national
banner upon the Peak above the Great Salt Lake
Valley to wave as an emblem of freedom to all
nations, sects, white, black, bond or free, who
chose to come to dwell peacably and help build
the cities—seen in visious of the future, which
were looked to be enjoyed under the wise laws of
a free and generous government.
     The hardy, patient, long enduring Pioneers,
and builders and owners of these towns and
cities, etc., are more than likely to remain here,
and continue improving, making this life what it
was designed—unless directed by the Hand
that led them here and blessed these parched
and barren vales for their sakes, having borne the
"Mormons" more real and tangible blessings than
any other spot upon His foot-stool, first redeemed
by their strength, patience and skill, etc., they are
the last ones that will move away, or be driven
or exterminated by any crushing process or rul-
ings gotten up by political interlopers, and con-
spirators who have come here bent upon rule or
ruin.  Honorable men of enterprise, manu-
facturers and all modern improvements have ever
been welcome, and all who desire to be honored
citizens.  The Latter-day Saints have proven
themselves a God-fearing people.  They have 
sought to control their feelings, to exercise
charity, and have thereby subdued much of that 
spirit of resentment and retaliation which is so
natural, towards those who have outraged and af-
flicted them beyond measure.  They pray for
those who may be blindly fighting, thinking like
Paul, that they are doing God's service in perse-
cuting, or killing the Latter-day Saints.
     But claiming to be lawful heirs of Father Adam
and mother Eve, begotten to inhabit the same
planet, with similar natures and peculiarities as
others of their descendants, and clinging as tena-
ciously to our faith and opinions as did our Puri-
ant progenitors, we have claimed it our right and


[column 1]

privilege to choose the religion that best satisfies
the soul and its earthly and heavenly wants. And
when violent steps have been taken to invade,
and to sever the ties, and cherished endearments
of country, home and people whose sympathies
for each other were naturally strengthened by
suffering together, being encroached upon and
driven from place to place under the point of
bayonets, and forced from our native hills and
Temples, and the rest of mankind, with no favor
or word of sympathy from any other quarter of
the land that gave us birth, has it not been
enough without mentioning religion, to knit and
bind our hearts together? And to unite us more
closely when the cry of extermination again rings
in our ears. Persecution has ever been the legacy
of God’s people. But He says “Vengence is Mine
and I will repay."
	These peculiar trials being predicted have not
come unawares as does the thief in the night.
They have been looked for as among the inevi-
table that would have to be met in the great com-
bat. And this is why they are able to endure as
patiently as they do, and even cheerfully the un-
lawful and impious encroachments that are being
made upon them.
	"Eternal vigilance” is the watch-word, and
their final victory is written upon the banner of
truth and right, which has ever and will forever
conquer. Let those who wish to bring about a
reformation among the "Mormons" set before
them a worthy example in worldly as well as
spiritual things, after the pattern of Christ, who
said "His people must become one in all things."
Let them show equal works of righteousness with
those manifested among the majority of this
people. Where is there a community professing
Christianity that show the charity, mercy, long-
suffering and forbearance towards their fellow be-
ings, as becometh Christians, taught and lived by
the humble, but hated and crucified Savior of the
world? Where is the power of His gospel being
manifested, the administrations and gifts pertain-
to it, in any other church outside of the Latter-day
Saints?
	From the power and violence arrayed against
this work one can judge of the strength that it
has reached. Among the feeble efforts that have
been made to stop it are the steps taken to prevent
the gathering of the Saints from foreign lands.
But they might as well pass a law to stop the
emigration from the spirit world as the gathering
of the seed of Israel. There are good among all
communities who will yet receive this gospel.
Thousands will come to enquire, and learn the
truth concerning it after the Elders have been
called in from the nations, and will rejoice in the
same. There are few who now possess sufficient
moral courage to speak in defence of an unpopular
people were they so inclined.
	But, when various other denominations are made
to conform to similar laws, confiscations, etc.
which is sure to come upon the principle “as you
do unto others, etc.," they will find more room for
that milk of human kindness that is witheld from
the "Mormons” now.
	The Lord said that He would have a tried
people, that they were to come up through much
tribulation, and be made perfect through suffer-
ing. Their afflictions and humiliations have all
been profitable. But who of this generation
knows the hundredth part of what it has cost
them to be Saints? But the gospel makes them
stronger and more patient as the years roll on.
And these present fiery trials may be viewed as
harbingers of better days than the Latter-day
Saints have ever yet enjoyed. Jesus said that His
people should be hated of all nations for
His name’s sake. And there is an unspeakable
joy and satisfaction at this thought, and that
“though they be punished in the sight of men, yet
is their hope full of immortality.” The earth be-
ing the Lord's and the fulness thereof it rests with

[column 2]

Him and not their tormentors how long such
wickedness will be permitted to flourish. But
the swift judgments that have been predicted have
begun and are increasing upon the earth which is
ripe with iniquity, and we know that there will be
no cessation, but that suffering, bloodshed, mob-
bing, and wickedness of all kinds will increase.
The calamities and distress that we hear off in
our own land and all others', causes the troubles
here to seem light in comparison, and fills our
hearts with sorrow and mourning over the blind-
ness a indifference that is manifested, and the
suffering that is coming upon them, which they
might escape would they but heed the humble
champions of the gospel which the Lord com-
manded should be preached to all the world or
their blood would be found upon the skirts of
His people.
	This is barely the beginning of similar and
more awful events that have been casting their
shadows before, and which Joseph Smith foretold
would come upon this land without the wrongs
which he, and this people were then suffering
from, were requited. We are as sure of the
speedy deliverance of Zion, as we are that
another morn will break, and the darkness flee, or
that a tempest will abate when it has spent its
fury. These may be viewed as broad assertions
in the days of the judges, when to acknowledge
and obey a Superior power to earthly courts is in
their eyes a treasonable act; but I will refer such
to the following contained in the vision of St.
John.
	"I am he which searcheth the reins and hearts;
and I will give unto every one of you according
to your works. And he that overcometh, and
keepeth my works unto the end to him will I
give power over the nations.”
					H. M. WHITNEY
	Jan. 24th, 1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

SCOFIELD.
Editor Exponent:
	I thought perhaps a few lines from this out
of the way place might be of interest to some
of the readers of the Exponent. Our Relief
Society is in a tolerably fair condition. We
hold two meetings monthly and are trying to
do all the good we can. The majority of the
Sisters work energetically,there are a few who
do not take so much interest.
	Our Relief Society was organized in Aug.,
1882, with the following officers: Harriet Wal-
ton, Pres. Ella G. Ingles, First Coun. Agnes
Russell, Second Coun. Rachel Ann Gatherum,
Secretary, and Mary Ann Morgan, Treasurer.
	Your Sister and Co-laborer,
		Rachel Ann Gatherum, Sec.

EMERY STAKE.
	The Relief Society Semi Annual
Conference of the Emery Stake was held at
Castle Hale, Oct. 18th, 1889. Two meetings
were held during the day, Sister Elizabeth
Howard, from Salt Lake City was present and
the Stake Presidency of the Relief Society
were on the stand, and representatives from
the different wards with a goodly number of
sisters filled the house.
	Sister Anne U. Larsen presided in the meet-
ings and gave a report of the Stake; as far as
she was acquainted with the situation it was
favorable.
	Presidents of the several wards gave reports
land it was learned that the “labor of
love is increasing and the poor and missionaries
are first and most considered and the little
mites are gladly given to forward the cause
of  “Relief.”
	Sister Howard occupied most of the time in
the afternoon and touched briefly but pointedly

[Column 2]

on prayer, going to meetings, Word of Wis-
dom, reading good books, keeping the Sabbath
day holy, to observe the Fastday, to preserve
health and shun the vain and foolish
fashions of to day; how to partake of the Sacra-
ment, keep away our children from sectarian
schools, to learn our boys a trade, advocated
woman suffrage and recommended the golden
rule of the Savior: “Love one another.” Pres.
C. G. Larsen and Counselor Wm. Howard
were also present, and gave some very good
counsel and encouraged the sisters not to be
weary in the work of charity. Beside the fol-
lowing sisters were the most prominents peakers:
Anne Pulsipher, Josie Childs, Anne U. Lar-
sen, and several others. The meetings were
well attended, the speeches spirited and all
agreed that they had enjoyed another feast in
our "lovely mountain home." 
		Kathinka Andersen, Asst. Sec.

MARICOPA STAKE.	
	The Quarterly Conference of the Maricopa
Stake was held at Lehi, Dec. 18th, 1889.
Pres. Sarah M. Pomeroy presiding, her Coun-
selors were also present with, the President of
the several branches. Of the brethren, C. I. 
Robson, Stake Pres., Coun. H. C. Rogers, with
Charles Allen and others. The opening ex-
ercises were followed by verbal reports of the 
several branches by their respective Presidents;
showing that all were feeling interested in their
work and a general feeling of unity and faith-
fulness prevailed.
	Pres. S. M. Pomeroy and Coun’s. in turn ad
dressed the conference, and gave wise and
timely advice.
	Coun. H. C. Rogers said the remarks of the
sisters had called to his mind ideas which he
had never before thought of. It seemed
strange that we should be forgetful and care-
less of duties when such blessings were in store
for the faithful; but thought forgetfulness was
planted in our hearts that we might have it to
overcome.  Said, this was one of the waste
places of Zion, was flattered that he had the
privilege of assisting to build it up.
	Brother Allen felt a cheering influence in
our meeting, encouraged the saints to live
faithful.
	Brother Brimhall said our reward would be 
according to our diligence.  "Without the
spirit of the Lord we can do nothing, but with
it our yoke is easy and burdens light.” 
	Sister Valenzuela (a Pima sister) spoke in
her native language, Sister Susan Savage in-
terpreted. She bore a faithful testimony to
the good spirit working in the hearts of her
people.	
	Pres. C. I. Robson spoke briefly, gave some
instructions regarding the general fast day,
quoted from Paul on the subject. Said the
saints had been more faithful under trying
circumstances than when peace and prosperity
reigned.
	Closing remarks by S. M. Pomeroy, ad-
journed for three months.
					  F. E. Robson, Sec.
	 Mesa, Jan. 6, 1890.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society Conference of
Utah Stake held Nov. 30th, 1889.  Sister John
presiding with her Coun. Marilla Daniels.
	Conference opened with singing, and prayer,
the reading of minutes of former conference,
etc.
	Sister John felt grateful to our Heavenly
Father for health and strength to meet  with  
us again, alluded to the good time we had at
our last conference, hoped we should have the
spirit of God with us today to guide us in what
we should do and say. Called on the presi-
dents to represent their different branches over
which they preside.  Seven presidents re


[column 1]

sponded to the call and gave encouraging re-
ports of the few, the same faithful few that al- 
ways attend these meetings. Each Pres. bore 
a strong testimony to the truth of this gospel 
and hoped to hold out faithful to the end.
	Sister Standring after representing her ward
felt to bear her testimony to the truth of this 
work, and exhorted the sisters to renewed faith-
fulness, said we would be held responsible for 
the way we magnify our callings, we have need
to rejoice at our persecutions, I wish to live to 
see Zion redeemed, our Savior's coming is near
and let us so live that we may have oil in 
our lamps and be ready for his coming, etc.,
etc.
	Sister Marilla Daniels felt it a privilege to 
meet with the sisters again, had many testi-
monies to bear, each testimony we hear our 
sisters bear strengthens us, the Lord has turned
the key in our behalf and He has blessed us 
in our administrations to our children. Be 
watchful and prayerful, put away pride and 
selfishness, be faithful and watchful if our 
Savior should come now we should not be
able to stand in His presence, etc., etc. 
	Susa Y. Gates was pleased at the remarks 
of the sisters that had spoken, loved to hear
the sisters bear their testimonies it strengthened
and encouraged her, she had had many testi
monies for herself, was trying to overcome her 
faults and live humble and prayerful. Ex-
horted mothers to attend the Primary Associa-
tions with their children. Encouraged the 
sisters to uphold Sister John and her coun-
selors for their untiring efforts traveling around
among the sisters, etc. 
	After singing and prayer Conference ad-
journed till 2 p.m. 
	Afternoon session opened with singing and 
prayer. Sister Brown from Pleasant Grove 
felt well paid for coming to Conference and 
hearing the testimonies of the sisters. Knew
this work was from the Lord and that we would 
come off victorious. I feel that we have been 
preserved in the hollow of his hand, there have 
been plots and plans laid for the destruction 
of this people ever since Joseph had the first 
revelation, but they have never retarded this
work. we have increased all the time because 
it is God's work. Let us all do right and I 
have no fear, in the spirit of God there is 
safety and in no other way, etc.
	Sister Anna K. Smoot always had a testi-
mony to bear; by hearing our sisters speak we 
learn to know each other, if we realized that 
more, it would help us and we would be more 
punctual in our attendance at meetings. How 
great a thing it is to day we know this is the 
kingdom of God we cannot say it without his 
will and His spirit; let us keep His spirit that 
we may be enabled to continue to bear that
testimony lest darkness overtake us, we may 
omit something or do something that will 
darken the spirit and we may lose it entirely,
Spoke in the interest of teh Primary Associa-
tion, exhorted mothers to set their children 
good examples for they will remember them 
when your words will be forgotten, etc.
	Pres. John said "I am thankful to meet with 
you and am pleased with the remarks that 
are made, they are timely and worth treasur-
ing up, faithfulness to our duties is com-
mendable, these societies are great helps, they 
are a tower of strength to advance the king-
dom. Woman's position will be advanced 
from this time; our Savior talked with Eve 
and also with Sarah and Mary. Joseph re-
vealed the doctrine that we had a mother in 
heaven. Christ first appeared to woman after 
His Crucifixion that shows how she was 
viewed by him. Woman is entitled to be equal 
with man, every key of the priesthood that 
man has, woman can enjoy with her husband,
women are our first and last friends, we could 
not do without them, we go side by side, let 
us be careful of our children and guide them 

[column 2]

 aright, teach them to value the teachings of 
good and holy men. We are not through our 
troubles yet, but the Lord rules, the kingdom 
of God is not dead it is alive," etc.
	Sister John felt that we had a great work
before us, and said, "let us live that we can 
have the smiles and approbation of our 
Heavenly Father. We will now adjourn for 
three months, singing, "The time is far spent 
there is little remaining." Benediction by 
David John.
					C. DANIELS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]

WOMEN OF THE BIBLE.
BY A. B. C'S

	[A Lecture delivered at Manti, Dec. 6th, '89,
before the W. S. A.]
	Mrs. President—Ladies — In the earlier
chapters of the Bible when men lived more in
consonance with God's holy laws, we find a 
greater number of women mentioned than we
do in the later centuries, as I perceive, men
arrogated more to themselves, until finally—in
the middle ages, woman, was regulated to the
lowest and most disagreeable tasks; being
treated little better than a mere  beast of
burden.
	The very first woman of whom we hear any
account in Holy writ. was a woman named
Eve; and although Adam may have been uni-
formly kind and considerate, allowing her
great privileges, which we are morally certain
he did—or she never would have been left so
much in the society of the "Tempter."
	Modern women might have complained of
neglect, be it to her credit I never heard that
she did.  But, judging her by myself, and we
are told that self judgment is a righteous one,
I opine that, discontentment was her chief
characteristic.  And who among her descend-
ants at the present day can attach blame?
Doomed as she was to wander, for untold
centuries, within the precincts of that cele-
brated garden, separated from all female com-
panions, with whom she was wont to associate 
in her former high estate, and whom she doubt-
less loved with all the ardor of her pure and af-
fectionate nature, permitted only the com-
panionship of Adam (if we except the Serpent)
and if I am allowed to judge Adam by most men
of my acquaintance, he was probably very in-
different company, as men’s conversational
brilliancy is seldom exerted to any consider-
able extent for the benefit or entertainment of
a wife.
	Deprived also of a woman's crowning glory,
comfort, joy, and motherhood!  Who I ask can
blame her for being discontent, and desiring
a change in her monotonous existence? even
though that change included Death!
	The interesting family of Lot should next
occupy our attention, and much might be said
on the inquisitive propensities of Lot's wife,
who like Fatima in the castle of Blue Beard
must indulge just one peep in the forbidden
regions—the consequence in both cases result-
ing in much general good, though apparently
disastrous to the chief actresses at the time.
	We will next notice Sarah, the wife of
Abraham, who must certainly have been a wo-
man after God's own heart, and one also whom 
He delighted to honor.  We quote "Where-
fore she said unto Abraham. “Cast out this
bond-woman and her son.” And the thing
was grievous to Abraham and he carried the
matter to the Supreme Court; and we read
that “God said unto Abraham, in all that Sarah
hath, said unto thee hearken unto her voice."
	I wish family quarrels, in these days could 
be disposed of in the same manner."  (Ap
plause).
	With your permission ladies we will now
follow poor Hagar in her wanderings in the
desert.  "And Abraham rose up early in th

[column 2]

morning and took bread and a bottle of water,
(putting it on her shoulder) and gave it unto
Hagar and the lad and sent them away."
"And she departed  and wandered in the
wilderness of Beersheba." "And the water
was 'spent' in the bottle, and Hagar was lost
in the desert, and Ishmael was dying of thirst!
With swollen tongue, eyes almost bursting 
from their sockets, panting and struggling for
breath, he sank upon the burning sands of
the desert.  The wretched and abandoned
Hagar could endure to look upon his sufferings
no longer, so placing his head under one of
the stunted desert shrubs, to obtain the benefit
of the meagre shade it afforded—"She went as
it were, a bow shot off, and sat down, and
lifted up her voice and wept."
	Oh! that terrible, agonizing wail of despair,
rending a mother’s heart. 
	Lost! Lost in the wilderness! driven from
home by Sarah, by Abraham, the father of her
child, and by her Heavenly Father. Deserted
by God and man, and perishing in the desert.
I do not say she did not merit the terrible
agony of that hour, but many times, we at the
present day, feel that our punishment is greater
than we can bear.
	Abraham must have taught Ishmael to pray,
for aroused by his mother's cries of distress,
we read that "God heard the voice of the lad,"
and the angel of God called to Hagar out of
heaven, and said unto her "Hagar what aileth
thee? fear not! arise! lift up the lad in thine
hand, for I will make him" &c. And God
opened her eyes and she saw a well of pure
water and she went and filled her bottle and
gave the lad drink, he revived, and they con-
tinued their journey, and he became the father
of a great nation whose hand, to-day, is against
every man and every man's hand against him.
The fierce Bedouin of Arabia.
	We will now take a glance at that sweetest,
meekest, and most dutiful maidens, who
was so ready to become the wife of Isaac.
Ere long we perceive the lady in possession
and developing a will of her own, and events
plainly prove that God not only acknowledged
approved, and honored that will, but relied
upon her fine powers of discretion, and dis-
cernment of character, as she, with all a
mother's love and keen powers of perception
knew that her darling Esau, her first born, with
his wild roving habits, his generous and brave,
but hasty, passionate and cruel temperament,
was not as competent to become the father of
a wise, enlightened and progressive people, as
the more thoughtful, dutiful son; the son that
would accept counsel of his mother—and that
mother remember was a woman—and so, al-
though she was compelled (through the ob-
stinacy of Isaac) to resort to stratagem to ob-
tain it, she gained the first blessing for Jacob,
and as women usually are she was right.  If
you are unconvinced of this read the history
of the two people, the Israelites and the
Edomites, the latter being a cruel, revengful
people, as witness for instance, Herodias, the
step-daughter of Herod Antipus, the latter
dancing for him, then demanding and receiv-
ing in return, at his hands, the head of John
the Baptist, on a charger.  I think even the
men, who claim so loudly against woman's
rights would scarcely relish association with
the Edomites, if Herodias and her daughter 
are a fair sample of the female descendants of
Esan.  Imbueing her hands without cause in
the blood of an innocent man, and that man
a Prophet of the living God! the time and
place a banquet! I can admire the heroism of
women in times of war when the finer in-
stincts and feelings are swallowed up for the
time, in the excitement and anxiety for the
safety of their kindred and country. But 
the cold blooded murderers! O horror! she
sickens my soul!
	If you admire modesty and retirement in a
woman who fully understood, realized and ap-


[Column 1]

preciated all her rights, turn with me to the
inspired prophetess who dwelt “under a palm
tree between Ramak and Bethel in Mount
Ephriam, and judged Israel at that time, and
the children of Israel came up to her for judg-
ment.”
	When the country was invaded by Jabin’s
army under command of that successful and
skillful general, the famous Sisera, she sent
for Barak, to take command of the hosts of
Israel.  But the faint-hearted Barak said unto
her “if thou wilt go with me I will go, but if
thou wilt not go with me I will not go.“ She
answered “I will surely go with thee, notwith-
standing the journey thou takest shall not be
for thine honor, for the Lord shall sell Sisera
into the hands of a woman.” And Barak went
up with ten thousand men at his feet, and
Deborah went up with him.  Then we read the
description of a terrible battle and of the en-
tire rout of Sisera's army, and how Sisera in
attempting to make good his escape on foot
feel into the tender mercies of a woman who
could perform deeds of valor for the liberties 
of the nation if not for her own individual
rights.  We read "Howbeit Sisera fled away
on his feet and came to the tent of Jael the
wife of Heber the Kenite."  And Jael went
out to meet Sisera and said unto him, "Turn
in my lord turn in unto me, fear not," and he
after many warnings of precaution went into
the tent and she “covered him with a mantle.”
Then when he had “fallen asleep from weari-
ness,” Jael, Heber’s wife took a nail from the
tent, and took a hammer in her hand and
went softly unto him, and smote the nail into
his temple and fastened it to the ground.”
Then follows the sweet song of Deborah, which
for vividness of description is unsurpassed,
permit me to recommend it for your careful
perusal ladies; I will quote a few sentences, the
sentiment of which my heart echoes.  "The in-
habitants of the villages ceased, they ceased
in Israel until I, Deborah arose, I arose a
mother in Israel.  My heart is toward the
governors of Israel, that offered themselves
willingly among the people, bless ye the Lord.
Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of
Heber the Kenite be; blessed shall she be above
women in the tent.  He asked for water and
she gave him milk, she brought forth butter
in a lordly dish.”
	"She smote off his head when she had
pierced and stricken through his temples.”
	We find also in Holy writ, a most forcible
and brilliant example of what women can do,
towards securing and maintaining their “equal
rights” with man, by the undaunted and coura-
geous manner in which the five daughters of
Gelophahad stood by the door of the Taber-
nacle before Moses, Eleazer, the princes and all
the congregation, demanding their rights of
inheritance; saying, “our father died in the
wilderness; and he was not in the company of
Korah, that gathered themselves together
against the Lord, but died and had no sons.
Why should the name of our father be done
away from among his family because he had
no sons? "Give unto us therefore a possession
among the brethren of our father!"
	This importunate demand appears to have
somewhat discomfited the great Israelitish law-
giver; he was completely nonplussed by a
family of young and beautiful, but determined
and dauntless girls.  Moses knew not what to
do until, as the good book tells us, "He
brought the cause before the Lord."	
	"And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying
The daughters of Gelophahad, speak right."
And commanded an inheritance be given them.
Thus a precedent was established which was
ever afterward regarded as a law in Israel. 
	Now I dare venture to assert if Malah,
Hogleh, Noah, Milcah and Tirzah, had lived
in these days, and had dared to assert their
claims before Moses, Eleazer, the princes and

[Column 2]

all the congregation. before the door of the 
Tabernacle; men would have sneered and said,
"attend to household duties," "strong minded,"
"clamoring for their rights" "Unsexing them-
selves," "out of their sphere" &c.

		"Woman's 'sphere' is bounded only
			By the talents God has given,
		And her duty lies wherever
			Earth can be made more like heaven."

	Now Mrs. President and Ladies we do not
lack material for lectures so long as there
still remains in the Bible unmentioned by us
such characters as Miriam; Ruth, Naomi,
Vashti, Esther, Susannah, Judith, and the wo-
man who was the mother of seven sons, with
hosts of others both in the Old and New Testa-
ments.
			ADELIA B. COX SIDWELL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	To the memory of Mrs. Mary Jane Tanner, who de-
parted this life Jan. 8th, 1890.
	Sister M. J Tanner has been Pres. of the Relief Society
of the 3rd Ward Provo City since its organization in May
1868 being over 21 years.  She was recently sustained by
unanimous vote Pres. of Utah Co. Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation which was organized Oct. 23, 1889.
	Whereas our Father in Heaven in His Divine wisdom,
and Providence, has seen fit to remove from our midst, a
good and noble woman, a useful and honored sister, a
mother in Israel and champion of woman's rights who has
endured many trials, and spent her life in His Church and
Kingdom on earth, and has gone to join her friends behind
the veil, —
	Whereas we the women of the W. S. A. of Utah Co.,
and of the 3rd Ward R. S. Provo City, mourn her loss in
these associations and her ability amongst her friends and
acquaintances,—
	Resolved that we recognize the infinite mercies of God
and feel that He doeth all things well, and that we hold in
remembrance her virtues and good qualities, in discharging
her duties and we deeply recognize her loss.
	Resolved that we the members of the W. S. A. and of
the R. S. Provo City sympathize with the husband and
family in their bereavement in the loss of a kind wife and
mother.
	And that a copy of these resolutions be placed on the
records of these Associations, and sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT and the T. and D. Enquirer for publication.
						MARY JOHN,
						MARRILA DANIELS,
						ELECTA BULLOCK,
						CAROLINE PRATT,
									Committee.


OBITUARY.

	Died at Burrville January 3rd 1890 of heart disease
Josephine Crandell Kirkman, wife of Joseph Kirkman, well
and hearty apparently, took supper with her family at half
past four, and at five o'clock she lay a corpse. Deceased
was born Jan. 18th 1857 at Springville Utah. She was the
daughter of Myron and Susan Crandell aged 32 years, 1
months and 15 days.
	Deceased was a true and faithful wife and a loving
mother we greatly mourn her loss. She was a faithful
member in our Relief Society, was lastly called to the
office of teacher, and the day before her death took all
her family to Fast meeting, enjoyed herself greatly in the
testimonies that were given by the brethren and sisters, also
in the afternoon at the Society meeting she bore a faithful tes-
timony, talked about the trials past, present and the future;
wished and prayed to be faithful to the end, and she has
died a faithful Latter-day Saint.
	To the family of the deceased.
	Memorial of respect to the family of Josephine Crandell
Kirkman teacher of our Relief Society.
	Whereas, our esteemed sister and fellow laborer Josephine
Crandell Kirkman, has by Divine Providence been removed
from our midst by the hand of death, and
	Whereas, by her regular attendance at our meetings we
have been enabled to know and appreciate her good char-
acter.
	Therefore be it resolved, that we the sisters of Burrvile
deeply mourn her loss and sympathize with her bereaved


husband and mother and family in the loss of so good a
wife, daughter and friend.
	Resolved that we tender to her sadly bereaved husband
our heartfelt sympathy for so great a loss.
	Resolved that a copy of these Resolutions be sent to the
family of the deceased, also a copy be sent the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and the same be placed in the minutes of the
Society.
				SARAH BURR,
								President.
				ANNA ANDERSEN,
				SARAH JANE CLOUERT,
								Counselors.


UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
﻿PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
			J. V. PARKER,
				Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 18.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1890.    No. 18.


CONTENTS.
	An Address, Women of our own Country, and
Women in Other Lands.—A. W. C. Greeting.—
S. M. Kimball. Dawning of a Brighter Day.—
A. N. Bowring. A Happy Occasion.—Lottie M.
Webb. Millard Co., W. S. A.—M. A. Y. G.
Star of Bethlehem. An Ancient Convent Burned.
Notes and News. Hephzibah. R. S. Reports—
St. Charles—Davis. Utah W. S. A. Important
Items.
	EDITORIAL:—President Woodruff, His Views
on the Present Situation. "Fear Not, Zion."
Editorial Notes. Notice. A Loved One Passed
Away.
	POETRY:—Departed.—L. M. Hewlings. A.
Poem.—Ruby Lamont. We Have Been Poor
Together.—Augusta Joyce Chrocheron.


DEPARTED.
BY L. M. HEWLINGS.
The glory from my day has all departed.
	Beauty has vanished and eloquence is hushed;
Unreconciled, I wander heavy-hearted,
	Rehearsing bitterest words, "Dust unto dust.”
In vain I listen through the long Still Evening,
	Watching with weary eyes thro’ gathering gloom,
For one sweet voice to break the stillness round me,
	For sound of footsteps that will never come.

Alone I sit with mem’ries of my darling,
	Whose voice gave thrill of gladness, now grown dumb.
To love’s own call responsive e’en in sadness;
	Ready of heart and will, good deeds, were done.
I gather up with tortured heart love’s treasures,
	Letters and books, and precious things bestowed,
Racked with the thought of ties forever severed,
	To walk henceforth alone upon life's road.

Science, philosophy, searching mysteries.
	Must we vainly question where has love-light fled?
Affections that made life here Elysian,
	Answer to the soul’s reason, dispel this dread !
Into delightful fields of exploration,
	The occult and hidden things bring to view,
Climbing successive rounds in nature's kingdom,
	Solving wondrous problems, both of old and new.

Search beyond these hounds into infinity,
	The nature of soul itself to us reveal;
Uplift the veil that hides the sought for city,
	And the great law-giver’s government unseal!
Science and philosophy both are silent,
	Powerless to raise the veil, or further climb,
Beyond the bounds of mortal vision finite.
	Such knowledge comes but thro’ a power divine,.


A POEM.
Precious darling, mama’s joy,
Vacant is thy place, sweet boy—
	Oh, my heart is nigh to breaking,
	Sleeping darling, or awaking,
	Still that heavy, heavy aching
For my lost, my precious boy !

Busy feet, bright, curly head,
Are ye truly, truly dead?
	Little lips so full of kisses,
	Little heart so full of blisses,
	Little hand with soft caresses,
Can it be that ye are dead ?
 
Dazed, my heart is, precious love !
Up I look, dear, up above; 
	Through the blue I try to find thee,
	Oh, my heart hath ne’er resigned thee!
	Dost thou darling, dost thou mind me
In thy brighter home, sweet love?

Oh, I mind thee in the morn
Ere the golden light be born,


And I mind thee in the gloaming
	And when beacon stars are roaming
	O'er the dark sea's purple foaming,
In their distant, silent scorn.

Oh, our hearts are lonely yet,
Lonely, yearning, sobbing pet;
	Gone from earth our sweetest treasure,
	Gone, with thee, life's brightest pleasure,
	Only Hope left in the measure
And sweet Mem'ry, precious pet !

God is good, we turn and say,
Stricken hearts, a little day
	And a little night of sorrow,
	Then a waking on the morrow,
	No more grief our hearts shall borrow
In the dawn of God's bright day—

Give us grace, O, Father kind,
Through this gloom Thine Hand to find,
	Ever strength'ning, ever leading,
	In our hearts Thy mercy pleading,
	Healing still the hearts that, bleeding,
Turn to Thee for balm to bind—
						RUBY LAMONT.


[column 1]

			﻿AN ADDRESS.
[WOMEN OF OUR OWN COUNTRY, AND WOMEN
			IN OTHER LANDS.]
	A few years since to be a prominent
suffragist was to subject one's self to ridicule
and disfavor. The description of strong-
minded women, so graphically but so unkindly
portrayed in the character of Mrs. Jellyby, by
Charles Dickens, was pretty generally accepted.
If a woman inclined to be literary or business-
like she was at once pronounced a perfect Mrs.
Jellyby, not always, in truth, by the men, for 
the conversion of the women has been one of
the hardest tasks for the pioneer suffragist.
When this all-important subject was in its in-
cipiency, Dickens was of all novelists the most
popular; he was the fashion and he exerted his
fine efforts to ridicule and laugh down a ques-
tion which has proved too formidable for even
the wonderful pen of this gifted writer to sub-
due. His volumes of wit and sarcasm over
which the world so raved, and without which
no library is quite complete, are now seldom
taken from their shelves, save to remove the
dust, and Mrs. Jellyby is scarcely thought of,
while the enfranchisement of woman is a ques-
tion of the hour; it is constantly before the
public, and increases in popularity every day.
The daily papers are full of reports of woman's
work, in philanthropy, temperance, education,
the industries, dress reform, literature, medi-
cine, social reform, politics and art. It has
become a national question. The long petitions
which are annually sent to Congress are each
year lengthened by thousands of new names
until now the suffrage women are like a great
army, gaining new strength, new recruits,
brightening and improving their weapons every
hour, and steadily and surely marching on to
victory.
	In a comparatively new country, and under
a liberal republican government where woman
is held in high regard and receives most splen-
did educational advantages, one almost wonders
why any greater freedom is asked, and the
rich society lady says, "I don't wish to bother
with that question, I always thought I had
rights enough," and the poor drudge lady says,
"I haven't time to think of these things, its no
use anyway." But there is a change; some

[column 2]

day perhaps this society lady who had rights
enough is left a widow, and she awakes to the
fact that her fortune has been speculated away
and she must earn a living. She tries first
teaching, and if her education is thorough she
succeeds moderately well, but the work is very
hard and the wages not extra: still she does
not complain for awhile, but she wonders how
Mr. — who lives near and teaches a similar
school to her's manages to live so much better
than she can, and she enquires about his salary
and finds it nearly double her own. Does he
work longer or harder? Does he accomplish
more? Oh, no; but then he is a man, and men
cannot be expected to teach for as little as
women. Oh, then, thinks this little lady, the
men better do all the teaching; so she decides
to clerk, and obtains a situation in a large dry
goods house; she is a very pleasing clerk, and
is kept busy all day long from eight in the
morning until eight at night, handing down
goods and measuring yards of this and yards
of that, suggesting contrasts and assorting
shades. A very nice sales-lady that, I wonder
what she receives? Oh, pretty good pay (for a
woman), sixty dollars a month; so, and the
young man at the next counter, who does just
the same kind of work and comes and goes at
the same hour, does he get sixty dollars also?
Certainly not! he is a man with a young family;
he has one hundred and twenty-five, and little
enough it is at that. And has the sales-lady
no one to support? Yes, she has an invalid
mother, for whom she must always try to do a 
little extra, and two growing boys to feed,
clothe and school; so when the lady sees that
men clerks are so much more deserving, she
decides to learn a trade, and possibly becomes
a printer; being quite apt and bright it is not
long before the principal and most particular
work in the office is given to her. Pay day
arrives, and this bright woman receives less
than the man at the next case, and she knows
she has done more work, and she asks, how is
that? Oh, says the employer, men are paid
sixty cents a thousand, and women are paid
forty. And these are not the only instances
of industry that are conducted on this princi-
ple; in fact, it is so in the large factories and
in almost every branch of work. 
	A few experiences of this kind soon-teaches
the rich society-lady that she really has not all
the rights she wants, and, in trying to better
her own condition, she learns that other women
suffer injustice too; she has awakened to the
call, and she joins the army; and the poor
drudge lady, she has her experiences too, so
many and so sad, that she finally rebels against
the wrongs and injustice done her, she also has
awakened and becomes a recruit.
	The independent, free-thinking woman takes
the leadership, and in reviewing the vast
amount of work she has accomplished, she
certainly deserves the place. In 1848 it was
only some half dozen women who called a
Convention at Seneca Falls, New York, and
demanded equal  educational, industrial, pro-
fessional and political rights for women, now
the different organizations of women can
scarcely be numbered. Of those rights, they
then demanded, not many have been wholly
obtained, unless we except the professional;
but "barriers have been burned away," walls
of prejudice have been torn down, and the
Universities have opened their doors, the plat-
form seeks the lady lecturer; and such posi-
tions as physicians and police matrons, that


[column 1]

﻿once received utmost opposition, are now be-
come a necessity. The marvellous work done
by the Red Cross and other kindred societies,
can only be learned through such great scenes
of distress and suffering as the Johnstown
floods, the Mount Vernon earthquakes and the
Seattle and Spokane fires. Woman’s progress
in this country is steadily, rapidly, and surely
reaching the wonted goal. In the beginning
of this address we termed the Woman’s Suf-
frage question National; let us correct the
statement and say universal, for the call has
been echoed throughout the world, and the
women of all nations have awakened to the
sound. In studying the educational and po-
litical conditions of women of foreign nations,
how they are deprived of knowledge and con-
trolled by superstition, bigotry and papistry,
where the prejudice against woman’s advance-
ment is, as it were, rooted in the soil, the task
seems so hard, the obstacles to overcome so
insurmountable that, one wonders can it ever
be accomplished, can the chains that bind
them ever be sundered? And stopping for an
answer to our inquiry, one almost hears the
breaking of the chains. Two years ago this
winter, in answer to the call of the American
women for a Woman’s National Congress,
across the mighty seas came messengers of
every clime, laden with telling and interesting
reports of woman’s position in their several
countries. There was the honest, intelligent
English woman, whose advancement has been
almost as rapid as the American; the bright
and witty French woman, the noble and
straightforward German, Hollander and Dane,
the Russian, the Icelander, the Italian and the
Hindoo.
	It might be interesting to quote a few para
graphs from some of these reports, for each
lady can better tell her country-woman’s con-
dition, and I will begin with the last men-
tioned—the Hindoo.
	The women of India sent to the American
Council, the cultured and refined Pundita
Ramabai Sarasvati, who, after giving her re-
port to the Council, made a lengthy tour
through this country, and to other nations, to
publish abroad the wrongs and trials of the
child widows of India, and gain, if possible,
some assistance in their behalf. She very
simply and plainly relates the condition of her
country women long ago and tells how, step
by step, they have advanced to a certain de-
gree of education. Still are they little less
than slaves. Let her own words tell the story:
“In olden times in our country, some few
women were allowed education, and stood on
the same footing as the great men: They used
to hold discourse with men on equal terms;
and it is said in some of the sacred books of
the Hindoos, that once on a time there was a
woman who wielded great power over the
assembly of sages, and even held conversa-
tion with one of the greatest philosophers of
the time. After that it was thought best by
our men to keep the women completely in ig-
norance, so that they might have more power
over them; and these men had discovered the
fact that if education was given to women it
would be impossible for them to keep them
under complete subjection, and so in time,
women were completely deprived of any kind
of education, except now and then we had
some princes and learned men, who wanted to
have wives beside them who could read and
write. So a great many women were allowed
just enough education to make verses in praise
of the men, and praise them all the time, but
the common women were, of course, not al-
lowed any education at all.” “But,” she fur-
ther says, “now, through the influence of the
English, the missionaries and some learned
men, the women are permitted to attend a
primary school for nearly two years.” The
school age is from seven to nine. “At nine

[column 2]

they are taken out and betrothed to boys their
own age and that is the end of their edu-
cation.”
	After more and sadder descriptions of the
ignorance and serfdom of Hindoo women, she
cheerfully presents a brighter side by telling
that in 1878, the doors of the Universities
were thrown open to women and then began
the higher education; and now steps are being
taken by women to build a Medical College in
Madras; and in Calcutta and Bombay there
are many women preparing to be physicians.
So much for the Hindoo women; in eleven
years have they risen from utmost ignorance
to the plane ot higher education and are
building colleges for themselves. One won-
ders how the hierarchy of the priests and great
prejudice of the men could have been so over-
thrown; perhaps it was the advent of the Eng
lish among them introducing enlightened man-
ners and customs, and perhaps it was only the
awakening of the women to their unjust and
lowly condition.
	We will now cross to lands which boast the
highest civilization, and see what they have
done towards woman’s emancipation. Extend- 
ing into the classic waters of the Mediter
ranean lies fair Italy, whose cities were once
the Mecca of learning and of art; whose
praises have been sung in every tongue; whose
warriors were the bravest; whose palaces and
cathedrals are the pride and wonder of the
wonder of the world, and yet what a pitiful
wail comes from her fair daughters. Madam
Salazaro, editor of the Woman's Review,
Rome, writes, that Italian women are mere
slaves to men. True, education is compulsory,
and there are many schools; but the education
is not sound, rational, fitting one for life’s
realities, but so superfluous, that it fits them
for nothing at all. The Constitution forbids
woman a public position, and her social posi-
tion is indeed deplorable. In the girls’ schools,
bi-weekly lectures are given by men; no woman
has yet been allowed to address them; though
some attempts have been made to do so.
Taking Madam Salazaro’s figures, such small
wages are paid women for work, that it is
really more genteel to beg. “Under these
circumstances,” she writes, “marriage is the
best solution of the problem, and girls use all
the fascinations of youth, beauty, dress and
coquetry to catch a husband,” Such unions
seldom realize the high ideal of marriage, for
she continues, “Bear in fact that love matches
are rare, and expediency is the usual motive
for entering the married state; the conse-
quences are often life-long misery and unhap-
piness. Under the civil code woman has no
existence apart from her husband. He is her
lord and master in all things, and as she is
supposed to owe all things to him, he has com-
plete control of even her private fortune,
should she have any.” No matter how terribly
ill-used a wife may be she has no redress; but
if she fails to fulfil her wifely duties according
to her husband’s demands he, should he
choose, can have her punished. There is no
divorce law, and no matter how wretched
two lives may be when once the mar-
riage is consummated it binds forever. But
to-day there are, in Italy, a few women physi-
cians and one woman lawyer, though she is not
allowed the liberty to practice her profession.
The Italian Parliament are considering some
measures tending to alleviate the wrongs of
women; and in Rome there is published a
woman’s newspaper, and its columns are full
of pleas and arguments in the Italian woman’s
behalf.
	The world well knows that in past years
Italy was much more glorious than now, and
her civilization has been the grandest, and yet
are her women scarcely so well provided for as
the Hindoo. Madam Salazaro declares the
chief reason to be Religious bigotry. The

[column 3]

Papacy, she says, is fast losing its influence
over men; but by means of the confessional
and pulpit its ministers have hitherto kept a
firm hold on the women of their congrega-
tions. Farther north, in Switzerland, France,
Germany, the Netherlands, Scandinavia and
Britain, much more progress has been made.
Universities have opened their doors, and
women are allowed and encouraged in many
public duties, though we shall still feel there
is much to overcome, and a great deal to
accomplish in the way of woman’s emancipa-
tion, in countries where women may frequently
be seen hitched to a cart by the side of a large
dog, hauling produce and wares to the market,
while the great, strong, stubborn husband
walks behind with a whip in his hand crying
his wares for sale; such is really the case in
Switzerland and Germany to-day,
	In noting the advancement of woman in
different lines it seems, that in medicine, has
the greatest progress been made; throughout
the world it is the medical college that have
received her, and people have shown less preju-
dice and disfavor to that profession; though, of
course, charity and philanthropy are practical-
ly tasteful to woman and there is no disputing
her supremacy in that field. We gladly re-
turn with lightened hearts to America and
fervently say, “God bless a country where
woman is no slave, but free, respected and
beloved.”					A. W. O.
	Delivered to the Ogden W. S. A., Feb. 14,
1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GREETING.
Fellow Suffragists of Utah:
	In this the first month of the new year I
take pleasure in entending to you kindest
greeting and sympathy in your labors for the
re-enfranchisement of the women of Utah and
for the enfranchisement of all intelligent wo-
men of every land and clime.
	Education and agitation are our best
weapons of warfare.  We can best educate
through organization; therefore the necessity
of thorough organization and active interest
in the different localities.  Believing that the
best results follow the deliberations of men and
women, we favor the admission of men as mem-
bers of the association.	
	Interest is awakened, and the best good
seems to follow a systematic course of politi-
cal study, commencing with the Constitution
of the United States, followed by the study of
municipal, county, territorial, state and national
government.
	Just and equitable government is essential
to happy homes and refined society.  We are
steadily approaching the looked-for time when
women will, as they should, have a voice in the
political conditions that so vitally effect them
and theirs.
	It an important part of woman's work to
help to establish purity in politics and to
establish an equal code for men and women.
Let the good work of the past year encour-
age us to further effort and perseverance.
"The price of liberty is eternal vigilance."
				S. M. KIMBALL,
Pres. Woman's Suffrage Association of Utah.
	Jan. 15, 1890.


Our grand business is not to see what lies
dimly at a distance, but to do what lies clearly
at hand.—Carlyle.

	Every one must see daily instances of people
who complain from a mere habit of complain-
ing, and make their friends uneasy, and
strangers merry, by murmuring at evils that
do not exist, and repining at grievances which
they do not realy feel.—Graves.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WE HAVE BEEN POOR TOGETHER.

	O Jenny, Jenny, can it be
		You did not know my face?
	I watched for you adown the lane
		Long ere I reached the place;
	The wheels rolled slowly for my heart
		I longed to see you so;
	For we were friends together
		In poverty and woe.

	You knew me?  Yet your gentle face
		Smiled with no glad surprise.
		And where's the look I used to see
	Within your tender eyes?
		They told you I was rich--you feared
	The right once free to take?
		O, Jenny, what is friendship's claim
	But love for love's own sake!

	Yes, true it is, to me restored
		Are riches once long lost,
	But those long years have also proved
		The true friends by their cost.
	Could I forget when here we lived-
		Those old days side by side.
	The cold and hunger that we shared
		When both our dear ones died?

	To dress my baby for the grave,
		You stripped the cover white
	From off your pillow, and you sewed
		While I wept through the night.
	O, Jenny, gold and taste may buy
		Robes white and rare and fine,
	But fairer gift a bride ne'er wore
		Than robed that babe of mine. 

	T'was all you had and I had none—
		The gift of love to death—
	The boast of wealth beside such deed
		Is but as wasted breath.
	We have been poor together,
		We know each other's heart;
	Now widowed, childless and alone,
		Why should we ever part. 

	We'll rear above your Robert's grave
		A shaft to mark his worth;
	No braver heart through want and woe
		Sank broken to the earth.
	The cruel sea with angry roar
		My Donald's body keeps,
	Round him the waters wind their weeds
		And chant the while he sleeps.

	We'll plant above my baby's grave
		The flowers she loved the best,
	And deck this cot, through sorrows dear,
		To be our spot of rest;
	And we who loved each other so
		While want and grief we bore,
	Will share the blessing that God gave
		And part on earth no more.
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON,
Bountiful, Feb. 8, 1890.


[column 1]

DAWNING OF A BRIGHTER DAY.

     The Dawning of a Brighter day is near at
hand for Israel, we feel it through the com-
motions in the world, the changing seasons,
etc., show that the coming of our Lord is
near at hand, and that the silver lining of the
dark and lowering clouds which so long have
o'er spread the canopy, are about to burst
forth from the shadow and will fill the hearts 
of the tried, enduring, but faithful sons and
daughters of Zion with joy, who so long have
borne persecutions “revilings, imprisonment,”
the scoffs and jeers of their enemies in every
conceivable form, mostly without a murmur;
but with all confidence in our Creator knowing
that He over rules all things and that not a 
hair of our head is lost or a sparrow falls to
the ground without His notice.
     Who says "Come unto me all ye that are
weary and heavy laden and I will give you
rest," who think you my sisters is in need of
this rest which our Savior holds out to us? is
it the rich and titled of the land? "Oh no,

[column 2]

they never weary" in heaping to themselves
the riches and honors of this world but labor
with untiring energy continually for the things
that perish; no matter who are the losers or
what obstacles stand in the way;—is it the gay
and fashionable whose every wish is gratified,
whose life is a dream of pleasure and enjoy-
ment, "who toil not neither do they spin," do
they weary and want rest? I think not;—but
it is the patient, enduring, humble, God-fear-
ing Latter-day Saints who through all their
revilings, revile not again, who are bearning
the heat and burden of the day, withal re-
joicing yet heavy laden, and looking forward
to that beautiful day of rest, the Millenium
the thousand years of peace when the lamb and
the lion shall lie down together, and the meek
inherit the earth.
     Then should we feel down cast or sorrowful
while such heavenly prospects are almost
within our reach, verily no, it is good to suffer,
if for a righteous cause, it enlarges the heart,
ennobles the mind, purifies the system of the
dross that is within, making us more pliant
and better fitted to be molded to the will of
our Heavenly Father who will eventually, if
we are patient, long suffering and abounding
in good works, bring us back into His pres-
ence to enjoy the society of the just made per-
fect through suffering.
     But the race is not to the swift, or the
battle to the strong, but to those who endure to 
the end, who fight valiantly for the truth, ac-
knowledging God in adversity saying in their
hearts here am I Lord prove what is good in
me, watching for the silver clouds in the dis-
tance, how often did our Savior say He came
not to do His own will," then should we have
any wish in our hearts but to do the will of the
Father, we who are so much more mortal than
He, who suffered all things for the building up
of our Father's kingdom, nay; rather let us 
renew our diligence in all humility for the 
cause of God, who has promised not to place
upon us no more than we are able to bear,
but to fit the back for the burthen."  Our
enemies are only working out the measure of
their days—not usefulness I am sorry to say,
but to their utter discomfiture when their eyes
will be opened and they behold they have been
fighting against the Church of the Lamb
thereby destroying the weak and tender plants
and placing heavier burdens upon the already
weary and heavy laden.
     But the hour of our deliverance is nigh as
with children of Israel who were delivered
from the bondage of their oppressors, so in the
due time of the Lord when He thinks it is 
enough shall we pass out from under the iron
hand of oppression, their reign of power is of
brief duration, in the meantime, let us weed
the garden of our hearts of every unculti-
vated plant, prune and dig around the roots of 
every substance that needs cultivation till our
tabernacles are pure and free from sin,
strengthening ourselves in the love of God
praying always that the Lord may bless us
with wisdom, setting good examples before all
men and partaking not of the sins of this
wicked and adulterous generation.
     Then will the Lord look in tender compas-
sion upon us and administer unto us of His
love, will heal up the broken-hearted, will lift
our heavy burthens, and say "Come unto Me."
Then will the sons and daughters of Zion re-
joice and shout Hallelujah! Hosannah to God
and the Lamb for His mercy endureth forever
then will the silver clouds shine forth in all
their beauty heralding the glorious dawning 
of a brighter day for the pure in heart the
Zion of our God.
					A. N. BOWRING.
Brigham City, Jan. 25, 1890.


A clock tower is to be erected at Leidbury,
as a memorial of Mrs. Browning, the poet.


A HAPPY OCCASION.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 24th, of Nov., the citizens of this
little town met in a social party in honor of
our respected brother and former bishop J. C.
Owens.  The evening was spent in speeches,
songs, essays and recitations and in partak-
ing of a bountiful picnic.  A good spirit pre-
vailed, and all enjoyed themselves very much.
Brother Owens expressed himself pleased and
gratified at this expression of the respect in
which he is held in this community.  The
occasion will long be remembered with pleasure
by all who participated in it.
			Respectfully,
					LOTTIE M. WEBB.
	Woodruff, A. T. Dec. 11, 1889.


MILLARD CO., W. S. A.
	A meeting of the W. S. A. of Millard Co.,
was held Jan. 8, 1890, Mrs. M. A. Y. Green-
halgh presiding.  The meeting was well at-
tended, the speakers were the president, who
gave an account of the movement, and the ef-
forts being made to secure to women, equal
rights with men, and the rights which every
citizen ought to possess, H. B. Bennett, Neil
M. Stewart, W. H. Stott, and W. Stewart
made short, but telling remarks upon the sub-
ject, expressing their full concurrence with the
object of the association, their willingness to
do all in their power to assist the women in
their struggle for liberty.  The choir sang
several of Freedom Songs, many names were
enrolled, and altogher the meeting was an in-
structive and agreeable one.
						M. A. Y. G.


STAR OF BETHLEHEM.
	The star of Bethlehem will again be visible
in this year, being its seventh appearance since
the birth of Christ.  It comes once in 315
years and is of wondrous brilliance for the
space of three weeks; then it wanes and disap-
years after seventeen months.  It will be a
sixth star added to the five fixed stars in the
constellation Cassiopea while it remains in
sight.


AN ANCIENT CONVENT BURNED.

	The convent of Muri, in canton Aargou,
Switzerland, has been burned nearly to the
ground.  The building dates from the eleventh
century, and was within recent years trans-
formed into a museum and at the same time
a retreat for pensioners on the treasury of the
canton.  Much of the carved wood-work and
furniture is lost, together with many precious
books and manuscripts.  This place was a most
wonderful repository for specimens of illumi-
nated vellum.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Matilda Joslyn Gage, Lillie D. White and
others are agitating the question of a new,
national suffrage association, to be called the
Liberal Suffrage Association.

	Not long since a Spanish artist was com-
missioned to paint a portrait of the baby King
Alfonso.  This he did, and when the painting
was completed presented his bill for $20,000.
The Queen Regent, Christina, objected, say-
ing the price was too extravagant.  The artist
expressed his regrets that his terms were too
high for the royal purse, and begged her
majesty to accept the picture as a gift.  The
Queen, highly indiguant, wrote a check at
once.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, In Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher woman’s exponent.
							Salt Lake City Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
Salt Lake City, 	-	 - 	February 15, 1890.


[column 1]
		﻿
		PRESIDENT WOODRUFF.
HIS VIEWS ON THE PRESENT SITUATION.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 11.—President Wood-
ruff, the head of the Mormon church, today gave
to the Associated Press the only Statement he
has ever made upon the political fight which has
just ended here.  His interview, which is as fol-
lows, can be understood as the feeling of every
Mormon in the Territory:
    "President Woodruff, I would like to get your
views as to the political campaign here and the
questions at issue."
    "Well, sir, I consider this as something more
than a mere question of what men shall compose
the city government and what party they belong
to.  There is a deep-laid scheme to deprive the
Mormon people of all political rights and privi-
leges so that the minority here may obtain control
of the Territory.  They cannot do this by fair
means so they resort to foul.
    "By misrepresentation and taking advantage of
popular prejudice against the Mormons, founded
chiefly in ignorance, they succeeded in securing
the disfranchisement of the older settlers who
made the country, and then of all the women.
This not giving these schemers a majority, they
have sought other means.  The Edmunds-Tucker
act has helped them somewhat, but the test oath
it provides can be taken by a majority at least, as
well as by their opponents.
    "Now they want every Mormon deprived of the
right to vote and hold office, no matter how good
and law-abiding a citizen he may be.  At the
Ogden election a year ago, large numbers of the
names of resident voters were stricken from the
registration lists, hundreds of non-residents were
imported and  the  election  was  carried  by the
Liberals by open fraud, and since then, by ficti-
tious valuation, the assessments of property have
been raised from three to five times the former
amounts of taxes, vice has flourished,  official
salaries  have been raised, public improvements
have not advanced, and the change is deplored by
the best people of both parties.
    "Boasts were made after the Ogden election,
that Salt Lake would be the next point of attack,
and that it would be carried by similar means.
The result has proved the boast not to have been
made in vain.
    "I consider the election has been gained here
by striking from the registration lists hundreds of
legally qualified citizens and by the votes of
hordes of new comers not lawful citizens.
    "I regard the action of the registrars, their sit-
ting as a court to judge of their own acts, and the
whole course pursued, as part of the scheme to
capture the city at all hazards.  I view it with
profound regret as prostitution of law and official

[Column 2]

power that should sadden every lover of fair play
and welfare of his country."
    "What effect will this change have upon the
Church and the People's Party?"
    "Oh, as to that I cannot see that the Church
will in any way be affected as an organization. It
is entirely separate and apart from political mat-
ters; members of the Church belong to the Peo-
ple's Party, and they will naturally feel that they
have been robbed of their rights at the polls.
But I presume that it will not affect their political
views or status.
    "The Church was not in that campaign and the
result will have no bearing upon it at all  that  I
can see."
    "What will be the future policy of the Church?"
    "So far as I know, it will be to preach the Gos-
pel to all the world; instruct its members in their
religious duties, and move forward to its divinely-
ordained destiny as the actual living Church of
Christ."
    "Is there any probability of the Mormon
Church or people removing to Mexico or else-
where?"
    "None that I know of.  I do not see any neces-
sity of such removal.  Individual members may
go where they choose to better their condition,
but there is not, nor has there been any contem-
plation of any such exodus as you ask about."
    "What is the Mormon idea of its rule as the
Kingdom of God?"
    "It is this:  We hold that this Church was set
up and organized by command of the Almighty;
that it has the right to formulate and maintain
rules of church discipline applying to its own
members;  that the extent of its punitive powers
is the excommunication of the transgressor;  that
it has no power to punish anyone by deprivation
of life, liberty or property, or personal injury in
any form; that governments should not regulate
the church, nor the church seek to control the
state; that all men should be politically free and
equal, free to vote as they please and to sustain
what politics they please, so that they do not in-
fringe upon the rights of others.
    "We believe this Church will prepare the way
for the coming of Christ to reign as King, and
that this Church will then develop into the King-
dom of God, which all the Christians pray will
come, that the will of God may be done on earth
as it is in heaven.  We believe in the full and free
agency of man, and that when that kingdom is
established there will be perfect liberty on earth,
civil, political and religious."
    "Then you do not feel gloomy as to the ultimate
result of this election?"
    "No, I believe taxes will be raised, that there
will be such a looseness of restraint imposed upon
immorality, and such a striking contrast formed
under Liberal rule, that order, honor, honesty
and consistent progress of the city under the
People's regime, that as in Ogden, the more
respectable people of all classes will soon desire a
return to former methods.  The plotters against
the majority will probably be emboldened to pur-
sue their plans for the destruction of a republican
government in the Territory,  but I should be
sorry to believe that Congress or the country will
proceed to such unconstitutional and infamous
extremities as those that will be proposed.  In
any event, there is a Power superior to all men,
who will overrule all things that happen for the
good of those who serve Him."
    President Woodruff appeared to be in good
health and not in the least worried over the result
of the election.  He is now in his eighty-third year
and apparently as strong and well preserved as
the ordinary man at fifty.


The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Utah Stake will be held in Provo Friday, Feb. 28.


“FEAR  NOT, ZION.”
	President Woodruff’s views of the political sit-
uation in Salt Lake City given to an associated
press reporter are a very fair statement of the
facts, and there is little need of comment. The
outside element from which the Latter-day Saints
fled with their lives in their hands, a little
more than forty years ago, has pursued them
with a persistency worthy of a better cause, and
after having urged Congress into special legisla-
tion and made all offices once in the gift of the
people appointive, have now succeeded in taking
possession of the City government, here where a
little band of weary pilgrims, worn with travel,
established themselves in the midst of a desert of
sagebrush, where vegetation was not, in a parched
and barren alkali soil, inhabited only by savage
tribes of Indians, wolves, black crickets and
snakes in abundance; and indeed it required al-
most superhuman courage to live from day to day.
But the “Mormons” were consoled by one thought
—they had left their enemies behind them;  the
mobs that had burned their homes and treated
them so cruelly; and though many of their loved
ones died of fatigue, privation and hardship, yet
they rejoiced that a remnant was spared to enter
the “promised land” where Zion was to be estab-
lished in the tops of the mountains and all nations
flow unto her.
	It often happens that the destiny of a people, or
a nation, is worked out very differently in its de-
velopment and fulfillment from what was expected
or anticipated by the wisest men and philosophers,
who have made predictions concerning that which
would be likely to transpire; but God's plans
never fail and His decrees must come to pass;
therefore He will not forsake Zion nor this people,
notwithstanding the dark clouds that hang about
the horizon to-day. He has not forgotten His
promises and He will yet “make the wrath of man
to praise Him and the remainder He will re-
strain;” and though men who are strangers sit in
places of honor and trust to-day and have control
of public funds, while those who toiled and en-
dured untold hardships to build up the waste
places, and economized for the public weal are
cast out therefrom, and not allowed even a minor-
ity representation to which, according to the de-
cision of a United States Judge of the Court of
the Territory, they are justly entitled, there is
one above who will take cognizance of all these
things, and when the day of reckoning comes He
will remember those who have oppressed Israel
as He did anciently.
	Men boast loudly of what they will do to the
“Mormons," and one need be wise and cautious
to avoid difficulty.  The early settlers in these
valleys who labored to make homes and gardens
and habitations wherein to dwell, with a scanty
supply of food and raiment and sometimes as it
were starvation staring them in the face, living
upon roots and herbs for days and weeks together,
can scarcely view with complacency the present
state of affairs, and see those whom they know to
be their open enemies exult in what is to them, the
wresting away of their sacred rights.
	Sometimes when remembering the sorrows of
the past, the exodus from Nauvoo in mid-winter,
the scenes of suffering at Winter Quarters on the
Missouri river, the graves that are scattered by
the wayside all along the route, one is ready to
exclaim, is it not enough? and yet the sublimity
of the faith of the Latter-day Saint is equal to any
and every emergency, and acknowledging the
hand of the Lord in all things gives the true Saint
that blessed assurance that Zion will triumph over
all her foes, and that it is necessary for those who
would becomes saviors upon Mt. Zion to come up
through great tribulation.
	Fear not Zion! where are all those who fought
against the Saints in the days that are past? What


honor did they gain?  So it will be with those
who seek to oppress the Latter-day Saints at the
present time.  They will not accomplish the plans
they have devised, and they will yet be caught in
the very snare they have laid for the feet of the
innocent and unwary.  God is greater than man
and "it is impossible for men to measure arms with
the Almighty."  The Latter-day Saints know of
a surety that the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth,
and that is why they do not fear for Zion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Sanpete Stake will be held on Friday, the 14th
of March, at Ephraim, commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. The Conference of the Y. L. M. I. 
A. will convene on the following day. By order
of Mrs. M. A. Hyde, President Relief Society
Sanpete Stake.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake will be held Thursday, the 13th of
March, in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
in this city; meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and at 2 p. m. A punctual attendance from all
parts of the County is especially desirable, and
brethren and sisters interested in this benevolent
institution are cordially invited to attend the
Conference. M. Isabella Horne, President R. S.
Salt Lake Stake; Elizabeth Howard, Secretary.

	On the 8th of February Mrs. Sarah  M. Kimball,
President of the Woman Suffrage Association of
Utah, and Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall, left this city as
delegates from Utah, to attend the National-
American W. S. A. Convention, to be held in
Washington on the 18th, 19th, 20th and 21st of
February. The ladies arrived in Washington in
time to attend the banquet given in honor of Miss
Susan B. Anthony's seventieth birthday anniver-
sary at the Riggs House, which is the head-
quarters of the suffrage delegates in Washington
D. C. 

	The steel engraving of Bishop O. F. Whitney,
which by the by is a very good likeness, as well
as finely executed, is now ready, and forms a
frontispiece for his volume of poems, which ren-
ders the book still more valuable. The books
previously issued to purchasers, if returned to the
office of the Juvenile Instructor, can have the
engraving inserted free of cost. This volume of
poems is now for sale at the Juvenile Instructor
and Deseret News offices, and at Parry's  book
store, C. R. Savage's and Margetts Bros. The
work is a valuable addition to any library, and
especially to the libraries of the Latter-day Saints,
as the poetry is strictly of a religious and sublime
character, embracing the most exalted themes,
and awakening the spiritual emotions of the reader.
"Whitney's Poems," as he has entitled the book, is
the first book of poems issued by one of the
Elders of the Church since Elder John Lyon
published "The Harp of Zion." There are to be
sure several brethren who have written for the
News, the Millennial Star and many miscellanaeous
poems for magazines, etc., but we do not recall a
volume published. The author therefore stands
quite alone in this respect, for Brother Lyon has
passed away, though his poems live after him,
and many of them are gems of Scottish poetry as
well as genuinely "Mormon." Bishop Whitney’s
poetical writings stand out clear and distinct from
all otter poems; he is unlike in style and tone
any other poet in the Church. Originality marks
his work and his themes; he is not particularly
dreamy and emotional, but more majestic and
lofty than most young writers. We ardently hope
that the young Bishop will continue writing and
that he may reach the sublimest heights obtainable
in poetry and song.


NOTICE.
TO THE STAKE PRESIDENTS OF THE Y. L. M. I.
ASSOCIATIONS.
	For several years we have endeavored, but with
only partial success, to obtain full reports from all
the associations. We again appeal to the Presi-
dents of Stakes and earnestly beg of them to 
interest themselves to have their secretaries ob-
tain full reports of the different societies, and then
compile and forward them to the secretary of the
Central Board, Miss M. E. Cook, 158 W. Third 
South Street, so as to reach her not later than
March 15th, in order that she may prepare her
report for the General Conference of the Church,
April 6th, 1890.
		GENERAL SUPERINTENDENCY
					OF Y. L. M. I. A.


[column 1]
A LOVED ONE PASSED AWAY.
		NETTIE S. ALDER.
Born Oct. 14, 1870.		Died Jan. 10, 1890.

		"Sister, thou wast mild and lovely,
			Gentle as a summer breeze,
		Pleasant as the air of evening,
			When it floats among the trees.

		"Peaceful by thy silent slumber—
			Peaceful in the grave so low;
		Thou no more shalt join our number;
			Thou no more our songs shall know."

	Once again we have cause to mourn the de-
parture of one of our dearly loved members. On
Friday evening, Jan. 10, 1890, the sweet spirit of
our dear sister and friend, Nettie Alder, passed
away.
	What an indescribable sadness came over us
upon hearing of this sad event! How tears un-
bidden flowed from our eyes, and would not be
checked! We could not at first realize the pain-
ful truth. But alas! too true. Nettie has left us. 
Her pure, noble spirit has taken its flight. Words
cannot express how keenly we feel the loss of this 
dear one from our number. We realize that in
parting with Nettie we have lost one of the bright-
est and most faithful workers in the association.
	From her childhood Nettie has been an inter-
ested and a useful member, always performing the
labors assigned to her willingly and well. We
shall miss her bright face from our midst. As the
roll is called we shall no more hear the gentle
voice answer with a beautiful sentiment. No more
can we listen to the bright ideas with which she
was wont to respond to the programme. By her
sweet, amiable disposition, Nette gained our
lasting love and affection; her bright intellect
won our earnest admiration; while her virtue,
integrity and true womanly dignity incites our
emulation. But she has left us. Why she should
have been called away we know not. It is one of
those decrees of divine Providence that it is difficult 
to understand. It is hard to bow the head and 
say, "Thy will be done."
	Nettie's life was like that of a beautiful flower
that has budded and bloomed to perfection, then
drooped, faded and died. But like many beautiful 
flowers she will spring up into life at another
season, more beautiful, more perfect, more love-
able. 
	To Nettie's parents and loved ones: We ex-
tend to you our heartfelt sympathy in this hour of
your bereavement. We realize that your sorrow
is a great one, and that words are weak to console
unless accompanied by that soothing spirit that
gives comfort to the aching heart. You feel that
the sunshine has gone from your home; to you
the sun does not shine with its usual brightness.
There is a place in your home that is vacant; a 
place that no person can fill. Such and kindred
[column 2]
thoughts are but natural. But do not let your
grief be so great as to drive the Holy Spirit from 
you, for this, and this alone, can fill the void in
your hearts. Remember our Savior said, "Blessed
are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted."
	For nineteen years Nettie has brightened your
home with the sunshine of her presence, but she
has been called away. He that bestowed this
blessing upon you has taken her again.
	While here her future looked bright and prom-
ising. She is enjoying a future far brighter and 
happier than earth could have given her had she
remained.
	Try to realize that in parting with Nettie you
have added one more treasure to those gone be-
fore; one more link to connect you with that
bright home above, and one more hand to beckon
you along that straight and narrow path that leads
to life eternal.
	We as a band of sisters earnestly pray that the
Spirit of God will permeate your home. May its
sweet influence soothe and comfort you, heal your
wounded hearts, and shed a brightness over your 
souls that no earthly power can dim. 
			"Dearest sister, thou hast left us;
				Here thy loss we deeply feel;
			But the God that has bereft us,
				He can all our sorrows heal.

			"Yet again we hope to meet thee,
				When death's gloomy night has fled;
			Then on earth with joy to greet thee,
				Where no bitter tears are shed."

	Officers and members of the 17th, Ward Y. L.
M. I. A. 
					MRS. J. C. HOWE,
								President.
					MISS. ELLA DALLAS,
								Secretary,


HEPHZIBAH.
XV.
	The springtime came with all its loveliness,
		And to the village maidens pleasures brought,
	Betrothals—promises of happiness;
		O love, how many changes thou hast wrought!

	The first few days that followed Hepsie’s
baptism were spent very quietly; she felt deep-
ly, but said little. Elder McG— noticing
the quietude of her demeanor, divined the
cause and sought an opportunity for conversa-
tion. Finding her alone, he addressed him-
self to her in such a way that she could not
avoid answering. “Do you comprehend, Hep-
sie, the great importance of the obligations
you have taken upon yourself, in becoming a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, and have you a knowledge of
its doctrines?” The girl opened wide, her
great blue eyes, and looked him in the face in-
nocently, yet with surprise. "Mr. —"
she said, “I know nothing, except that I have
been obedient to the wishes of my mother and
have forsaken all else. My school-friends will
not recognize me now; they are lost to me, as
they are to Lucy Reynolds."
	“But you have accepted something better,
higher and purer than the wisdom and learn-
ing of the world.”
	“How am I to know that the Everlasting
Gospel will make me wiser and better and
purer? Tell me that if you can?”
	“By prayer and humility,” the Elder an-
swered, and he explained, in the most eloquent
manner, doctrines and principles entirely new
to her, but which she grasped quickly. He
related circumstances concerning life at Nau-
voo, and told her much of Joseph the Prophet. 
Like Mary of old, she pondered these things
in her heart. From time to time she heard
the local Elders speak in the meetings of the
branch, and she became better aquainted with
the truths of the Gospel.


[Column 1]
	Meantime other young people though older
than Hepsie, were making rapid strides in ad-
vancement, and a company of Saints were pre-
paring to go to Nauvoo; the spring was open-
ing, and early in April, about forty of those
who had received the Gospel were expecting
to start  Among these were several unmarried
men and maidens, and the fathers and mothers
thought it would advisable to have those who
were old enough, marry—perhaps, being New
Englanders, they preferred their sons and
daughters to marry there, rather than in the
"Great West," of which, in those days, Eastern
people had many peculiar and crude ideas.
So those young folks were paired off, so to
speak. "Matches are made in heaven," it is
said; but of these few, it is doubtful, at least
so thought Lucy Reynolds and her little friend
Hepsie.
	"It's a great pity, said the child one day
to Miss R—, “that you are not going to be
married to young Mr. W—, instead of
that scheming old maid C. A. She has no
education, no sentiment; and I doubt if she is
sincere in religion even. She will never make
him happy, and you could, and would."
	"How is it, Hepsie," said Miss R—, that
you are always interesting yourself in love
affairs? One would think you an oracle, the
way you deliver opinions; but how do you
know Mr. W—- is going to marry C—?
He surely will not."
	"Oh yes, he will; she has talked it over with
mother, and more than that, his brother S—
is going to marry Miss M. L—, and she is
far worse.” “Well, I am surprised," replied
Lucy.
	"Do you suppose love has anything to do
with the affair?"
	"I am sure I can't tell, but it may be better
so; they are marrying for principle, and that
ought to be right."
	"We shall see, Lucy; but then you broke
your engagement for principle, and I suppose
you are ready to marry for principle"
	"Hepsie, you jump at conclusions; I am
not likely to marry at all, and if I do, I hope
to be a truly devoted wife."
	The girls talked on in this strain until in-
terrupted by Mrs. H—, who came to tell
them four or five marriages would be solemn-
ized on Sunday next, and on Tuesday the com-
pany would start for Nauvoo—and she added,
"How I wish I could take my family and go
with them. I long to see Nauvoo, and the
Prophet, and hear his voice." But she knew
that she could not go then, yet the spirit of the
gathering was upon her, and she tried to im-
press Hepsie with it; the child had not par-
taken sufficiently of the spirit of the Gospel
to enjoy and appreciate its blessings and priv-
ileges. At present her mind was occupied
with these “ill-assorted marriages,” as she
termed them, and the lack of true love, she
fancied there was in the unions about to be
formed.
	"I shall be glad when they are all gone to
Nauvoo," she said one day to Lucy. "I know
you will feel much happier, you seem so down-
hearted, now—and if Mr. W— had asked
you to be his wife and taken you with  him,
you would not need mourn for Henry."
	"Hepsie, child, I thought you believed in
love; can one overcome it so soon?"
	"Yes, with a little pride; when a man slights
you because of your belief, let him see you can
look higher; show him you have some spirit, if
you are a 'Mormon.'"
	"We shall see in time, my dear; you see, you
are not in love, and never have been, and yet
think you know more than those who have
had an experience; don't you know, child,
that one must have experience in a matter
before judging it?"
	"You have had a kind of sad experience,
Lucy. I am afraid I should not come out of

[Column 2]
the furnace of trial, so good and noble as you
have."
	Poor Hepsie little dreamed what the future
had in store for her. The weddings were cele-
brated, notwithstanding Hepsie’s serious ob-
jections, which, as the parties knew nothing
of, could not affect them in the least.. On the
Saturday evening Lucy R— called on
Hepsie to inquire if she intended going to
meeting to see the marriage ceremonies per-
formed. "No, indeed, I am not," Hepsie re-
plied excitedly. "Besides I am going away to
school so far that I shall be a perfect stranger
and try to devote all my time to study, and let
love affairs alone."
	"Where are you going. child; to Boston?
It seems to me you ought not to go without
advice from the Elders."
	"Mother has talked it over with Elder Mc-
G—, and he says it will be best, and that
when mother is ready to go to Nauvoo, I shall
be qualified to teach in one of the great insti-
tutions of learning, that will be built there;
for the Prophet Joseph Smith believes in the
most perfect education. I am to take drawing
lessons and vocal music too, at the high school
at G—."
	"I am sorry you are going, Hepsie. I wish
we could all go to Nauvoo now. I have no
other wish at present; but father is away in
Maine, and does not even know that we have
been baptized, and we cannot leave grand-
mother you know. She will not listen to a
"Mormon" Elder, and so the prospect looks
dark for us."
	( On Sunday, according to previous arrange-
ment, the meeting was held at the residence
of one of the local Elders a little distance
out from the village, and the marriages were
solemnized after the close of the services; five
couples were united in the holy bonds of matri-
mony. The two young graduates, fresh from
college, were married to the young ladies of
whom Lucy and Hepsie had spoken as un-
suitable companions for those refined and
learned young men. It was a red-letter day
in the newly-organized branch, and there was
great rejoicing among those assembled on the
auspicious occasion. The gifts of the Gospel
were manifest, and many testimonies of the
truth were added to those already received for
the strengthening of this little band of humble
Latter-day Saints.
	Mrs. Hathaway went home rejoicing in the
glorious truths she had heard, and soon after
her return, opened up a conversation with
Hepsie, who had remained away from the
meeting, contrary to her mother's wishes. She
related full particulars of the marriage cere-
monies,) dwelling especially on the impressive-
ness of the service as compared with marriages
witnessed elsewhere. She was full of faith,
zealous in the interests of the cause she had
recently espoused; and to her, everything per-
taining to the Gospel seemed sublime and
piecious. The prejudices of sectarianism that
are often so strong and hard to overcome, had
no weight with her; she cast them aside as so
many broken chains of superstition that had
held her in bondage, and buckled on the new
and bright armor of the Gospel, without the
least doubt or hesitation.
	("If you had only heard, Hepsie, the power-
ful speaking of those very young girls, in the
gift of tongues and interpretation, it would
have been a convincing testimony to you, and
you could never have forgotten the glow of
their countenances. Indeed it was heavenly;)
but better, almost, than all else that I have
heard, and much as I have enjoyed the teach-
ing and preaching of the Elders from time to
time, I have never heard anything that affected
me so much as what Elder V— said to-
day about baptism for the dead."
	Hepsie was thoroughly aroused now, though
she had listened listlessly before, her attitude

[Column 3]
and expression betrayed the interest she felt
in the subject; every feature of her striking
face beamed with enthusiasm, as she ex-
claimed, "What can we do for the dead? What
do you mean, mother; can we talk to them?"
In a moment her mother saw the drift of her
thoughts and hastened to explain: "You are
familiar with the Bible and have read it
through carefully. Do you not remember in
the Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians. where
it says, "Else what shall they do which are
baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at
all? Why then are they baptized for the
dead?" To me, this principle surpasses in
grandeur, any other I have heard, extending
into the ages of the past and giving the living,
power to redeem the dead." Mrs. Hathaway
had spoken eloquently, and Hepsie was gradu-
ally coming to a knowledge of the truth; un-
consciously, almost, her senses were being
quickened; little by little her mind was ex-
panding to grasp the priceless treasures offered
so freely, and which the pride of the world
and her ambition had nearly hidden from her
view.
	On the Tuesday following, as had been ex-
pected, a company of about forty persons,
men, women and children, members of the
Church in the village B—, started on
their journey to Nauvoo; traveling by land in
wagons: they were joined by several others
from adjacent towns, so that the company
numbered about eighty souls. This was early
in the spring of 1842. It was an event of
much significance to those interested, and
caused quite an excitement in the quiet village,
where erstwhile, year after year, things had
gone on so regularly; now there had come a
new departure, and naturally enough it aroused
the indignation of the clergy, and provoked
much animated discussion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

		ST. CHARLES STAKE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Primary Associations of Bear Lake
Stake, though situated far from head-quarters,
are, we believe, prospering fairly. This Stake
reaches into a portion of Utah, Idaho and 
Wyoming, and consequently lies in three coun-
ties; and to visit the Stake twice during the year,
which the Presidency aim to do, is a work of
no small magnitude.
	There are 21 Associations in the Stake with
over eleven hundred members, who will
eventually become a power in the land, and
with parents, Primary, Sunday School, and
other teachers rests the responsibility of mak-
ing that power a support or a hindrance to
the Priesthood and the work of God.
	The local officers are faithful to their duties
and seem to comprehend the importance of
their mission. If one doubts that it requires a 
vast amount of wisdom, energy and patience to
successfully conduct an organization of this
nature, let him try it.
	Our Associations have contributed over $100
to the magnificent Tabernacle recently com-
pleted in this Stake, and have also furnished it
with nearly 200 yds. of carpet for the aisles.
	Primary conference is held every six months
and is well attended. The time is occupied
principally by the children, who entertain
their parents and friends with an interesting
and well rendered programme.
	We earnestly hope that much good will be
the result of all labors directed among the
children of the Saints, that when the time
comes for them to shoulder the responsibilities
now resting upon older ones, that the moral,
physical and intellectual training they are re-
ceiving will enable them to better perform
those duties.
				ANNIE LAKER, Pres.
	Jan. 15, 1890.


DAVIS STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Davis Stake was held at Centerville,
Jan. 24, 1890.	
	Pres. Susan Grant presiding. Meeting
opened by singing, "The morning breaks, the
shadows flee." Prayer by Brother Randall,
singing, "Glorious things are sung of Zion."
Present on the stand were Pres. Susan Grant,
and her Counselors, Mrs. Mary Clark and
Lucinda Brown, also quite a number of the
Presidents of branches in the Stake. Minutes
of last Conference read and accepted.
	Pres. Grant was much disappointed that the
sisters who were to be here from the City had
not come. "We have visited some of the
branches and find a faithful few in each one--
"don't think the sisters realize the loss they
sustain by not attending their meetings. Am
pleased to have the brethren attend our
meetings, and know they take an interest in
them, they can correct us if we are wrong, we
do not want to overstep our bounds, we have
to be very prayerful to overcome temptation,
for the adversary is ever on the alert to lead
the people astray, may we be faithful to the
end."
	Coun. Mary Clark addressed the meeting,
We have met together to be blessed and com-
forted; I am pleased with the minutes of our
last conference, they are good. We are all
dependent children on our Heavenly Father,
we should live prayerful all the time, that we
may be able to attend to our many duties.
Spoke of the necessity of talking to our child-
ren and giving them good instructions that
they may not go astray as many are doing.
Where the Spirit of the Lord is there is free-
dom; we have glorious times in meeting to-
gether; it is our desire to do right, and let us
have faith in the ordinances when we have
sickness; if we live right the destroyer will
pass us by. May we spend our time in doing
good and building up the Kingdom.
	Coun. Lucinda Brown felt that the influ-
ence of the Spirit of the Lord was there; I de-
sire to do my part, and assist in the work of
this Kingdom. I love to attend my meetings
and am surprised that the sisters do not attend
their meetings better. We should meet to-
gether often for when the sisters get up and
bear their testimonies it strengthens them and
they feel more united. Spoke of the hardships
we have to pass through. It is necessary for
us to live right from day to day. I desire to
be one of the faithful Saints, and to put my
trust in the Lord; my desire is to live and do
good.
	Sisters Jane Holt and E. Barkdall made
very instructive remarks, and bore faithful
testimonies to the truth of this work.
	Pres. Grant felt that we had been blessed
with the Spirit of the Lord; would say a few
words in regard to our meeting this afternoon.
When I last saw Sister E. B. Wells she thought
it was necessary for us to organize a W. S. A.,
thought we could attend to it this afternoon, but
as the sisters from the city have not come, we
we will defer that and adjourn our meeting
until 2 p.m." Singing, "How beauteous are
thy feet." Benediction by Pres. W. R Smith.
	Afternoon services commenced by singing,
"Let Zion in her beauty rise." Prayer by
Brother Nathan Porter. Singing, "I saw a
mighty angel fly."
	Pres. Jane Muir of West Bountiful, Mrs.
Boynton of Kaysville, and Pres. Lucina
Sessions of East Bountiful, represented the
Relief Society in their respective wards, and
bore a faithful testimony to this work.
	Brother Nathan Porter then addressed the
meeting. Said it would be very unbecoming
in me to refuse to bear my testimony, but I
feel timid; I don't know as this timidity will
ever leave us. Pres. Young said he never got
over it. Now why is it? It is because we

[Column 2]
come in contact with the divine, and it makes
us feel weak. When we speak by way of ad-
monition we admonish ourselves. When we
have the Spirit of the Lord we can speak with
ease, but when the Spirit is taken from us we
feel barren. I cannot edify my sisters without
the Spirit of the Lord. Many have taken the
glory on themselves and have fallen. You
may criticise me as much as you like, but don't 
criticise the truth that I tell you. We could
have the gifts of the gospel now as much as
we ever did if we sought for them. I wish to
take this opportunity to ask the aid of my
sisters in the Sunday School; you can do it by
teaching your children to be orderly and
obedient at home; what they are allowed to do
at home, they think they can do anywhere
else. The family organization is the founda-
tion of all others. This society is a great help;
it is the head of all societies. May the Lord
bless you and all of us to the end.
	Brother Ianthus Barlow followed. I cannot
say anything to benefit you without the Spirit
of the Lord. I think Joseph gave this society
the right name; they can relieve the poor, and
there are many ways they can do good. It is
as Brother Porter said about the children; they
will remember what their parents teach them;
if they are wayward they will remember what
mother taught them and come back. I ask
the Lord to help us to serve Him aright. Now
sisters may you be blessed as a band of sisters,
and with the Spirit of the Lord. 
	Brother John Pool next addressed the meet-
ing. I have been very much edified in what I
have heard; it has brought many reflections to
my mind There is one thing noticeable in
reading history; mothers have formed the
minds of the children. Those who love virtue
despise the society of the corrupt, and will not
remain in their presence. We make impres-
sions on our children before they are born.
You sisters are holding the destiny of children
and preparing them to receive the priesthood.
Your influence is far greater than the father.
Cultivate the spirit of peace and quietness with
your children. I say unto you sisters go on,
and may the blessing of God attend you in
your efforts.
	Sister Lucy Clark, Sister Hatch, Counselors
Brown and Clark each made a few remarks,
bearing testimony to the truth of what had
been said.
	Pres. Grant made closing remarks. Confer-
ence adjourned for three months,  to meet at
Farmington. Singing, "Children of Zion,
awake from your sadness." Benediction by
Brother Pool. 
SUSAN GRANT, Pres.,
PHEBE G. SESSIONS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UTAH W. S. A.
By-laws and Regulations.
ARTICLE I.
This Association shall be called the Woman
Suffrage Association of Utah.
 ARTICLE II.
The object of the Association shall be to
work for the enfranchisement of all women,
without regard to party, sect, or creed, and to
take such steps from time to time as shall seem
to be wise and expedient for the political ad-
vancement of the women of this Territory.
ARTICLE III.
The officers of this Association shall be a
President, three Vice-Presidents, a Secretary,
Assistant Secretary, Corresponding Secretary
and Treasurer, with an Executive Commtttee
of not less than five, who shall hold their re-
spective offices one year, unless sooner removed
for cause.
ARTICLE IV.
All persons wishing to become members of
this Assocaition must pay an initiation fee of
50 cents annually, and must give or send their
names with the money to the Secretary, who
will present them in the order of business to
the next regular meetiug for admission.
ARTICLE V.
The officers of this Association, with the
Executive Committee, shall have power to
change or amend the By-Laws and Regula-
tions at any Executive session, and shall then
submit them to the regular meeting, where
they may be adopted by a majority vote.
ARTICLE VI.
The Executive Committee shall devise plans
of work suited to the development and progress
of the members of the Association, and co-
operate together with the members in encour-
aging young people to speak, write essays, and
discuss questions upon political matters and
civil government, and such other subjects as
relate thereto; and invite those not already in-
terested in suffrage to join, and encourage them
to become acquainted with the objects of the
organization.
ARTICLE VII.
The names of delegates to the Annual Con-
vention of the N. W. S. A. at Washington
shall be presented and voted upon at the an-
nual meetiug of the Association, previous to
said Convention, or a special meeting called
for the purpose. The Credentials of the dele-
gates shall be prepared by the Executive Com-
mittee and properly signed by the Officers of
the Association.
ARTICLE VIII.
All official papers and documents shall be
signed by the President and Secretary, or, in
the absence of the President, the Vice-President
next in order, and all official correspondence
must be signed by the Chairman of the Execu-
tive Committee or the President, and the Cor-
responding Secretary.
ARTICLE IX.
Regular meetings of this Association shall
be held once a month, and such business trans-
acted as shall be brought to the attention or
the meeting by the Executive Committee of
the Secretary, or other officers, after which
miscellaneous business or discussion will be in
order.
ARTICLE X.
A punctual attendance of the members is
particularly requested, in order to further the
interests of the whole, and to promote harmony
in all plans and methods of organized work.
ARTICLE XI.
All local suffrage associations that may be
organized throughout the Territory, by adopt-
ing these rules, or similar ones, and the Con- 
stitution of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association, and paying such a per-
centage as shall be agreed upon, shall be con-
sidered auxiliaries, and their representatives or
delegates will be expected to attend a Terri-
torial Suffrage Convention, should one be
called, and entitled to the priviliges pertaining
thereto.


IMPORTENT ITEMS.
	"While four great States just admitted to the
Union have freely discussed woman's right of
suffrage in their conventions, they have all
failed to incorporate it in their constitutions.
Nevertheless, the steps of progress already
achieved should encourage the timid and stimu-
late the brave to renewed efforts. The con-
cessions made in the world of work, the trades
and professions; in the department of educa-
tion opening colleges and universities; in the
civil status of woman, securing to wives their
rights of property and many other individual
responsibilities denied under the old common
law; school suffrage in sixteen States, muni-
cipal suffrage in Kansas, and, best of all, full
suffrage in Wyoming Territory, where, after
twenty years’ experience, equal franchise has


just been submitted to both men and women,
and has been incorporated in the new Consti-
tution by a vote of eight to one.
	This is pre-eminently a time when woman’s
co-operation is needed in the great work of
government. Statesmen are mourning over
the corruption in politics, in the legislative, ex-
ecutive and even judicial departments;
prophets are warning us of coming dangers;
philosophers tell us that the problems of civi-
lization are too complicated for man to solve
them, unaided, that his brain is already over-
weighted and that some new force must be
summoned to his assistance. Where shall we
look for this moral power that will bring order
out cf chaos, harmony out of discord, peace
out of war, but in the education and elevation
of women?”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


OBITUARIES.
Died - at Burrville, Sevier Co., Utah, on Friday, Jan.
17, 1890, Delia Hancock. born at Payson, Nov. 6 1880.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
Whereas—It has pleased an all-wise Providence to take
from our midst one of our dear pupils, we, the undersigned,
her teachers, with all her school-mates and friends deeply
mourn the loss of the lovely blossom that has withered
and died in the springtime of her life. Delia has proven
herself an industrious and obedient student, and an attentive
member of the Primary Association. She has now gone to 
the beautiful mansions above to assist in the Primary there
and join in singing anthems of praise to the Great God 
who doeth all things well.
Resolved—That we, as teachers spare no pains, or
energy, in teaching the children to follow in the exemplary
footsteps of the deceased, that they may meet her "on the
other side," in all her glory and splendor.
Resolved—That a copy of these resolutions be sent to
the parents of the deceased; also that a copy be sent to
the Advocate, and one to the Women's Exponent for
publications.
D.P. WHITEHEAD,
LAURA WATERS,
LOUISE KELLER
Committee
In affectionate remembrance of Lena Favorette Grow
beloved daughter of John W. and Catharine Grow. Also
grandaughter of Mr. Henry Grow of Salt Lake City. Born
Sep. 1st 1871. Died Jan. 9th 1890. Being 18 years of
age, whose death was very sudden of typhoid fever. She
was enjoying herself with her friends through the holidays.
Favorette has always been a most dutiful child to her
parents, whose counsel she always sought. When our
Primary was first organized she was always on the lead.
Her little essays and parts that she took, gladdened the
hearts of true Latter-day Saints, When she was 11 or 12
years of age, she made a pretty speech at the 24th of July
in behalf of the Primary before a large audience. So she 
worked onward and upward until she reached the Young
Ladies Association. There she was appreciated for she
was always at the post of duty. Her last testimony to the
Young Ladies was very impressive at the time but we little
thought it was the last. She manifested a spirit of resignation
to the will of the Lord in life or death. Ever ready to 
sacrifice her own feelings to assist her dear mother to raise
her many little brothers and sisters, and begged them in
her last moments not to grieve for her, for she felt she was
passing from death unto life, and called them all around
to shake hands and say good-bye for a short season when
all this sorrow will be over.
And tho' Favorette has left us,
And her "loss we deeply feel"
Still we know God hath bereft us,
And He "can all our sorrows heal."
EMMA BURROWS,
CARRIE RENGSTRUM,
ELLA MCKAY,
Committee.
Died—On Jan. 2, 1890, at Heber, Utah, Anne Giles,
the beloved wife of Wm. M. Giles, and daughter of John
M. and Ann Murdock, aged 35 years.
Her sudden death has cast a gloom over her family and
friends, for she was truly loved by all who knew her, her
amiable disposition and benevolent actions having won for
her the esteem and respect of all. She was the mother of 
eleven children, ten of whom are living; was a useful


member of the Relief Society and a firm and faithful Latter-
day Saint.
	The funeral services were held in the Stake House on the
4th inst., and although it was a very cold and stormy day,
there was quite a large gathering attended the funeral
anxious to pay their respects to one so loved and good. It
was a sorrowful sight to see her ten children left without a
mother and her husband without a helpmate, but we must
all submit.
		Death comes and steals away its prey,
			And we can’t stay its mighty power,
		The summons we must all obey.
			At midnight, or at noonday hour.
								CORRESPONDENT.


TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL﻿
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
–––AT–––
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
J. V. PARKER,
Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.
R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBROIDERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFTand FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to
Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

$5000.00 IN PRIZES
GIVEN AWAY
BY THE
SALT LAKE HERALD,
To Subscribers of the
SEMI-WEEKLY ISSUE.
The Semi-Weekly Herald is now the largest, brightest
and most enterprising paper published in Utah. It
consists of 8 pages, and is shortly to be re-enlarged. The
Herald publishes the most standard current stories by
special arrangement with the authors; containing many
illustrated features; has the exclusive rights to Bill
Nye’s letters; maintains a regular telegraphic corres-
pondent in Washington, and receives weekly letters
from the celebrated correspondent Frank G. Carpenter.
Special attention is paid to market reports and agri-
cultural news; and a prominent feature will be made of
religious news, the tabernacle services being regularly
reported, while prominent sermons of the leading
church authorities are given in full. In politics, The
Herald stands as it has ever stood, the firm and un-
deviating champion of the rights of the people of Utah.
---------------
The Premium Distribution for 1890
Will be on a grander scale than ever before,
FIFTEEN HUNDRED PRIZES
Aggreating in value over $5000.00,
Being distributed among all subscribers to the Semi-
Weekly early in April.
Prize No. 1 is an upright Fischer piano, worth
	$500 cash.	
Prize No. 2 is a thoroughbred Holstein bull,
	worth $200.
Prize No. 3 is a Bain wagon, worth $175.
Prize No. 4 is a lot in Garden City, worth $150.
Prize No. 5 is a yearling heifer, worth $125.
Prize No. 6 is a purse of $100 in gold, and in
	the list are several hundred dollars in gold
	in smaller purses, while included in the
	1500 prizes are sewing machines, mowers,
	reapers, rifles, photos, steel engravings,
	encyclopedias, toilet sets, fruit trees, shade
	trees, dishes, stoves, books, etc., 
FIFTEEN HUNDRED IN ALL!
Which will be distributed among all who
subscribe for
THE SEMI-WEEKLY HERALD.
Price $3.00 per year..
Send for a descriptive catalogue free.
Address
THE HERALD Co., SALT LAKE.
Officers:
John T. Caine, President,
Heber J. Grant, Vice-President.
Horace G. Whitney, Business Manager.
Directors:
Francis Armstrong,
W. W. Riter,
Junius F. Wells,
Richard W. Young,
Chas. S. Burton,
Elias A. Smith.
W. H. Rowe,
S. P. Teasdel,
Heber M. Wells,
E. G. Woolley
JAS. Sharp


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 18.                SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1890.            No. 19.


CONTENTS.

	The Prophet Joseph Smith.—S. L. Partridge.
Hephzibah.  Miscellaneous. Schools of Music.
W. S. A. Emery Co.  A Noble Woman.—A. E.
A.  Banquet to Miss Anthony.—Ex. Views on
Courtship and Marriage.—Dr. George Thomas
Dowling.
	EDITORIAL:—The Days of the Judges.  Edi-
torial Notes.  Washington Convention.  Some of
Miss Anthony’s Views.  A Nauvoo Woman.  For
the Time Being.—C. W.  All Nations in One.—
Bird Robison.
	POETRY:—Turning Backward.—L.M.Hewlings.
My Own.—Ellen Jakeman.  To My Husband’s
Mother.—Lula. To Susan B. Anthony.—Amarala
Martin.  A Sad Bereavement.  Obituaries.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
		TURNING BACKWARD,

			BY L. M. HEWLINGS.

	I went back to the dear old homestead,
		After twenty long years had past,
	And from friends by the score then counted,
		Whose warm hands in my own were clasped
	As with eyes then tearfully moistened,
		With a sincere feeling of heart—
	As the fervent "God Bless you" was spoken,
		When the time had arrived to part.

	I sent an evangel before me,
		Not wishing to give a surprise,
	And thought of the hosts that would greet me,
		With glad cheers that would rend the skies,
	While for over an hour I waited
		With the daylight close on the wane,
	And the heavens above storm-freighted
		To clasp hands with old friends again.
	But I found at length to my sorrow,
		I had reckon’d without my host,
	For here, I was merely a stranger,
		Or a traveling man at most.
	All found on my fingers were counted,
		Tho' I searched the whole township o’er,
	And from the dear old place disheartened,
		I have turned to ramble no more.—


MY OWN.

Come Poet, lend your golden harp to me:
	I fain would tell her now that life is done,
What all these years lay hidden in my heart.
	Bride of my soul; Helena, peerless one!

When o'er the green sward as a tiny child,
	With ribbons blue, and curls like golden wings,
She seemed a bird escaped from paradise,
	I loved her then above all earthly things.

Her gentle maidenhood, as pure as snow,
	Embodied all my holiest dreams of heaven.
The truest, deepest love earth ever knew,
	A man's eternal love, to her was given.
	
Her gifted mind, and glorious womanhood,
	Were sweet translations of a perfect life.
Dumb, and distrustful of myself, I stood,
	And mad with anguish, saw her made a wife.

I could have borne it better, if her mate
	Had been a fitting spouse for such as She.
He trampled, as the dust beneath his feet,
	The precious life that was pure gold to me.

I saw her cheek grow thin, her dear eyes dim,
	Her shoulders stoop beneath a load of care;
Her step grow slow, and hopes bright ensign died,
	And threads of white shone in her golden hair.


Today I saw her buried; where the snow,
	In eddying drifts piled high the frozen ground.
And felt that death had canceled every vow,
	That she was mine, who lay beneath that mound.

And, oh! if Heaven is Heaven, and love is love,
	And Faith and Patience fair requital know,
Through boundless realms of light, My Own, My Own!
	Led by the hand of God, we two shall go.
							ELLEN JAKEMAN.


THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH

	My Dear Young Brothers and Sisters:
Having had the blessed privilege of being
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, in
my childhood, and, having been requested to
write a few lines on the subject, I cheerfully
comply. I will say the remembrance of the
influence, the spirit and kindness, made a
more lasting impression upon my mind, than
did the features of the man; at the time of
the assassination of the Prophet I was nearly
seven years old; my thoughts have often dwelt
upon the firm manner in which he bore the
trials and persecutions which were continually
heaped upon him by his enemies, and my
earliest reccollection of him are of seeing him
at my father’s house, trying to keep out of the
sight of his enemies who were seeking him
night and day, that they might destroy him;
sometimes he would enter in haste, without
knocking; at another time perhaps, I would go
into the room, and find him sitting there.
I would not know how or when he came there,
and I cannot describe to you the thrill of joy
which runs through my whole being to day
when I think of the Savior’s love for little
children, similar to which Joseph’s love for
children would be shown by placing his hand
on my head or lovingly drawing me towards
him, take me upon his knee and kiss me, and
though the child has become a woman nearly
fifty three years old, the remembrance of the
spirit which attended that great man is fresh
in her memory never to be erased. It seems a
sacred subject to me, and though many years
have passed I cannot talk on it without being
moved to tears. Is it any wonder my friends
that from my heart I can bear testimony to
you to day, that he was truly a Prophet of God
with a power and influence about him which
could be felt even by a little child. My young
brothers and sisters as you grow older, study
the life and spirit of our Savior Jesus Christ,
and also of the Prophet Joseph Smith; you
will find the same spirit of love and self-sacri-
fice actuating both. We read in the Hymn
that “Millions shall know brother Joseph
again.” And we firmly believe it. Let me
entreat you then, in your youth to lay a
foundation of good works, that whenever you
may be called to enter the spirit world you
may find yourselves among the happy number
of those who have the privilege of enjoying
his society throughout the ages of eternity.
					S. L. PARTRIDGE.
	President of the Primary Association 6th
Ward Provo.


In conversation we should talk, not to please
ourselves, but to gratify or instruct others.
This would make us consider whether what we
are about to say will be worth hearing; whether
there be wit or sense in it; and whether it is
adapted to the time, the place and the company.


HEPHZIBAH.
XVI.
Sweet April, with her lovely smiling face,
		Shining thro' tears fair as the rainbow's sheen,
	Gentle and charming, with a winsome grace,
		Decks all her courtly train in living green.
	The month of April opened in the little un
pretending country town of which we have
been talking with a great deal of unusual ac-
tivity. The fitting up of wagons and teams with
provisions and clothing for the Far West was
an event of special importance in those days
to the quiet stay-at-home people, and the
neighbors, friends and relatives had much to
say in disapproval. The very heart of the
town seemed to be moving when this goodly
company took up their journey. But as from
time immemorial it has ever been so it proved
in this case, the excitement and hubbub, "the
nine days wonder," subsided and things settled
down again to the utmost quietude, though it
may be as well to state here that the village
never became afterwards what it had been in
other days, for many of the very best and bright-
est men and women went with that little band
of Pilgrims and their places were not filled.
	It was the time of year when the woods and
groves and meadows were full of music, and
all nature was donning her beautiful vestments
of early Spring; the charms and attractions of
this happy season can never be fitly expressed
in words, the hearts, the soul, all that is best,
purest and highest yearns to burst the narrow
bounds that confine the human mind, and in
a language only understood in feeling and
longing sing with the birds on the topmost
bough of the tallest tree, or climb the highest
mountain peak to pour forth in a flood of soul-
music the exuberance that wells up and fills
to overflowing the great heart of nature.
	Hephzibah Hathaway young as she was felt
the bursting of buds, the leaping of fountains,
the springing of tender grasses, the perfume of 
violets, the frangrance of lilacs and the aroma
of the pine woods, as one feels the influence of
a joy that surpasses all description. Her
whole being was enraptured or one might say
en rapport with the condition of nature. She 
was not then conscious of the intense sympathy
which she afterwards knew existed in her soul
with the great universe.
	She was so much in love with these influences
and objects that what was said to her of practi-
cal life made little impression, and the days
flew round and the time for her departure ar-
rived before she had made the least mental
preparation. Then followed another scene of
parting, breaking away from scenes and places
so dear and so beloved. Another fond and
lingering farewell to those precious ones beneath
the maternal roof and to go again among utter
strangers;—for the time she had almost forgot
ten her books so absorbed was she in the haunts
of her childhood, but one fine morning, the 
dew yet fresh on the soft clinging, tangled
grass, she marched down the long lane to the
roadside, where her trunk had been carried to
wait the stage, mother and children all around
her, and without any outward demonstration
of regret, though a great sob was in her throat,
she said her adieux. 
The mother was less composed, "Hepsie my
dear child" she said almost at the last moment,
"you will not forget to pray that you may
remain steadfast to the faith you have em-


[Column 1]
braced and pray daily morning and evening
that you may be preserved from temptation to
renounce the principles of truth, for I know
and testify to you that this Gospel we have
accepted is the only one that will secure to us
eternal life." Hepsie was not so firm as her
mother wished, but she promised to try and do
all in her power to keep in the right path and
not listen to the false statements and reports
that were circulated about Joseph Smith and
his followers.
	The ponderous old stage coach came dashing
along and the last good-byes were said and
the scene finished; Hepsie did not dare look
back, but began surveying the faces of those
around her in the stage. A few miles ride
and the silence began to be irksome to a rest-
less girl and a lady near commenced asking
questions that soon led to an interesting con-
versation.
	"Is this your first experience of leaving
home?" asked the lady, "O, no, I've been
away most of the time since I was a little girl."
"And pray what are you now? little enough
to be sure and look no more than eleven years
at the most." "I am fourteen and mean to
teach in a year or two more, indeed it is ex-
pected of me."
	"You will have to grow rapidly and mature
considerably, if you expect to occupy the posi-
tion of a country school teacher, it requires
physical strength remember that, and you look
very delicate." Hepsie wanted to say that she
intended to go to Nauvoo and teach in some
great institution of learning there, but she
had resolved before leaving home not to men-
tion Nauvoo, Joseph Smith, or the "Mormon"
doctrines. Therefore she remained silent,
which was in her case perhaps the better way.
	We shall pass over the year Hepsie remained
at the high school in G. and merely state, that
the girl applied herself exclusively to her
studies, that she made rapid progress and won
the love, esteem and approbation of her teachers
and many of the students. At this institution
after a public examination, Hepsie received a
certificate of graduation, which was proof of
her ability to teach, but the law in Massachu-
setts in those days required every teacher to
be carefully examined in the district, where
the school was to be taught. Hepsie however
felt perfectly sure, young and inexperienced as
she was, that she should not fail when the
time came for a more specific examination.
	She had never betrayed by any word her
peculiarfaith, she was studying with a fixed pur-
pose in view, and adhered to it strictly.
Many times she was lonely and felt the need of
encouragement in her struggles with her own
heart, in regard to the principles she had em-
braced, and of which she knew so little, but
she kept her Bible with her, and a new light
shone from its pages whenever she read it with
a prayerful heart, and in any conversation
with regard to religion she was able to give
such answers as were aplicable to the questions
asked.
	Her mother's prayers were no doubt of much
avail, for she was a woman of great force of
character, remarkable energy and activity, rich
in faith, and abounding in zeal in the good
cause she had so ardently espoused. Hepsie
realized in after years, that the Providences of
God were over her in those days, and she knew
her mother's prayers had been heard on high.
How often do we come to an understanding of
the silent forces exercised in our behalf,
years after those, who were the active agents
in bringing about the desired results, lie cold and
silent in the tomb, or have in other words,
passed on "to that better land," ere we could
make recognition of their spiritual help.
	Examination over, Hepsie felt as much re-
luctance to leave school and return home, as
she had in coming away to the strange scenes
and people. She lay awake nights before-
			[Column 2]
hand, wondering how everything would be,
and how she would be received by her old
friends and former schoolmates. In those 
days letters were less frequently interchanged
than now, and Hepsie knew very little con-
cerning what had transpired at home since
her departure.
	There was no one coming to accompany
Hepsie home, though her mother had written
to have the Principal make some arrangements
about the journey. She would be quite alone,
as the students going in her direction expected
to travel in private conveyances. Although
Hepsie had been somewhat exclusive during
this last year of school, she had made some
very dear friends and it was hard to leave
them, some were going to the South to teach
and others thought of teaching at, or near
home in New England. Hepsie expected soon
to go to Nauvoo though she did not say so to
her classmates. When the question was asked, 
"What are you going to do Hepsie?" she re-
plied invariably "to teach somewhere perhaps, 
not yet."
	Farewells were interchanged as one after
another would start for home, and Hepsie's 
turn soon came, fellow-students  and teachers
joined in predicting for her a brilliant career,
for she had excelled in literary pursuits and
especially so in composition. The morning
was dismal and cold making the girl all the
more gloomy, the stage was crowded and she
felt the more lonely—the day wore on and at
last the slow old coach stopped at Mrs. Hatha-
way's gate; the anxious friends were eagerly
waiting and as the girl alighted she felt as
much embarrassed as when going among
strangers, perhaps even more so, for she knew
that remarks and criticisms would be made
upon her manners, her appearance etc., and
she dreaded to be the object of village gossip
as all sensitive people do. Her mother was
the first to greet and caress her, and one after
another commented freely, "the child has not
grown at all, she looks as if she had been
starved." "Did you like the school?" these and
a hundred other similar questions poured in
upon her, she was tired and nervous and yet
there was no escape; she had been gone a year
almost and they were all anxious to know
what improvement she had made, and the girl
was obliged to submit to their scrutiny and
questionings.
	The next event of importance, for we must
hasten on with this story was, what was Hepsie
to do—her mother had thought of this before
she came home, and decided that teaching
would be the proper thing; New England wo-
men like Mrs. Hathaway believe in putting
one's education to practical use. Things had
settled down at home and Hepsie was getting
used to her own family and the village people,
and as the Spring began to open up renewed
her visits to the old accustomed places, and
Mrs. H. feared she was giving her time too
much to idle dreaming. Hepsie was aware
that her mother wanted to talk to her and
sought to avoid it, but it had to come. One day
when they were alone Mrs. H. spoke out. 
"Hepsie do you intend to get a school? for if
you do its high time you set about it. All the
schools around here are taken and the three
Bancroft girls have each secured a situation,
Rosie is younger than you are and has not had
the training you have had." Hepsie's heart
beat very fast and she colored up to the eyes but
she summoned up courage and replied. "I do 
expect to teach and I suppose it means going
away from home again, but I will not 'board
round.'"
	"Where are you going to look for a place,
board round or not? Lucy Reynolds has the
district nearest here, Miss Bancroft teaches on
the hill, Susan on the other side in the East
district," and Mrs. H. went through the list
of all the places near. Hepsie thought a m
			[Column 3]
ment and then said "I'll try Beechwoods, I 
haven't heard that school was taken have
you?" Mrs. H. had not, and so Hepsie on the
same day wrote a letter to one of the Trustees
whom she had known all her life.
	In a day or two he paid a visit to see the
girl herself and find out what her capabilities
were. He came in the morning and Hepsie was
already out in the orchard for the young buds
were just beginning to put in an appearance,
and she had to be sent for, and while the old
gentleman waited in the parlor he asked Mrs.
H. how old her daughter was who seemed so 
anxious to teach. "She is just fifteen." "Does
she know anything about discipline?" inquired
Mr. M. this was a difficult question for Mrs. H.
had an idea, that she knew about as much of
discipline as the birds, however she managed
to reply indirectly that she had always ex-
pected to be a teacher and all her training had
been with that end in view. Here Hepsie appeared
upon the scene, and good old Mr. M. greeted
her cordially, but his first remark afterwards
was calculated to dampen her ardor. "Hepsie
or Miss Hathaway I suppose you are now, as
all the older girls are married, you do not look
more than eleven years old, though your
mother has just told me you are fifiteen. I'm 
afraid the folks at Beechwoods will think you're 
too young, but we shall see, I've come to en-
gage you; there isn't much time to spare, next
Monday morning the school must open, you'll 
have to be examined you know, and you must
have a certificate of good moral character
from your minster here." Hepsie thought
this was rather soon to begin and besides she
had never worn long dresses yet. Mr. M. 
didn't seem to notice it, and she assured her-
self she would look much taller and older
when her skirts were long. After some further
conversation and explanations, terms were
agreed upon, also the boarding place, and
Mr. M. took his leave, saying at the last mo-
ment "Mrs. H. she's too young. to teach, but
then we'll try it if she passes the examina-
tion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	Where a man's business is, there is the ground
for his religion to manifest itself.—ArthurHelps.
	The good Samaritan helps the unfortunate
wayfarer without asking how he intends to
vote.—J. A. Macon.
	We find plenty of people who don't average
well; they know too much for one man and
not enough for two.— Uncle Esek.
	There are few tables where convivial talents
will not pass in payment, especially where the
host wants brains or the guest has money.—
Zimmerman.
	"It's a great blessing to possess what one
wishes," said some one to an ancient philosopher,
who replied, "It's a greater blessing still, not
to desire what one does not possess."
	True courage never exerts itself so much as
when it is most pressed, and it is then we must
enjoy the feast of a good conscience when we
stand in the greatest need of its support.–
Hibernicus' Letters. 
	My young disciple, don't hunt for new
things, but study to improve upon the old
ones; every flat stone, and most of the bowlders,
have been turned over already by the novelty-
hunters.— Uncle Esek.
	It is a very poor, though common pretense
to merit, to make it appear by the faults of 
other men: a mean wit or beauty may pass in a
room where the rest of the company are allowed
to have none; it is something to sparkle among
diamonds, but to shine among pebbles is
neither credit nor value worth the pretending.
—Sir W. Temple.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO MY HUSBAND'S MOTHER, 

MRS. SARAH G. RICHARDS.

	Dear mother, thou who gavest mortal birth
To him—my noblest, best, my next to God—
Accept the tribute of a daughter’s love.
	And while I seek, within my humble muse, 
Some gem that’s suitable for thee to find, 
May God inspire me what and how to write. 
For well I know, that uninspired by Him, 
I conld no word, no line, no sentence trace, 
That would be valued or approved by thee. 
Thou art His child, and thou dost love His laws. 
Do I not know that in the direst hour, 
Thou wast upheld by His almighty arm?
That He hath given thee strength and grace to stand, 
'Mid persecutions, and through trying tests, 
When pow’rs of darkness else had borne thee down !
	Thou art His daughter, owned and well beloved. 
He knows thy faith and thine integrity; 
And all His promises to thee are sure. 
	Am I not bless’d, to be the chosen bride
Of thy dear offspring? Heaven knows I prize
The high position given me to fill. 
Not one of worldly grandeur or of ease—		
What hath a follower of Christ to do
With pomp and pride, and stations whch become
The Mammon worshipers? Let me ne’er fall
So low, so groveling as to seek their train !
My place is loftier, for I am the wife
Of one who fears and honors God, the Lord, 
And seeks to know and to perform His will
In each particular. 
				Mother, I bless
And reverence you, as God’s appointed one, 
Through pain and sorrow, love and faithfulness, 
To bring to earth this chosen “Child of Prayer,”
And give him to God’s service and to me. 
I pray for you, that all your future days
May be more golden than the past have been; 
That we your children, may in some small way, 
Relieve you of the loss you still must bear, 
In having parted with your honored Lord; 
Whom death alone could separate from you, 
Whose love you trusted most implicity, 
And gave him all a woman has to give. 
	How much you miss his tender, patient care, 
We cannot realize, nor fill his place; 
But if our prayers for you are not in vain, 
You will be comforted and hopeful still. 
And in the great Eternity which lies
Almost within the out-stretched finger’s reach,
Where happy recognitions will take place, 
Where love will know no limit, joy no bound, 
Where no misunderstandings will arise, 
A blest reunion waits for him and you; 
A unity more perfect than the first
Will there exist, and make you one indeed. 
	There, too, the fair, sweet girls our Father gave
To bless your children and adorn their lives, 
And then recalled, in infant purity—
Who clung to you, with loving, childish trust, 
And kindled in your breast such hope and pride—
They, too, are there, awaiting our approach
With fond expectation. Oh the change !
Lord teach us how to wait and to prepare !
	Again I crave rich blessings upon thee, 
And may God grant and multiply the same. 

	Let lighter affections go whither they may, 
And passions less holy be lost and decay;
	Let doubts and suspicions false sympathies sever, 
But may our true frieudship endure forever l
	May that love dear mother, between us exist, 
Which can every test and temptation resist;
	With a union like that of Naomi and Ruth, 
Firm as Heaven’s own justice, and fair as its truth. 
								LULA. 
S. L. City, Dec. 26th.


[Column 1]
		SCHOOLS OF MUSIC.
After Pope, to quote the proper authorities,
poets turned from the mechanical expression
and nice antithetical opposition of thought to
subjects freer and more emotional. After he
had held men down to the formalities of the

[Column 2]
time for over a hundred years, we begin to
find a great number of poets and prose writers
whose efforts were directed towards the over-
throw of the artificial rhetoric and unimagina-
tive pedantry of the French school of poetry
which was so influential in England and so
much imitated and copied by the Euglish,
These men labored to express more humanity,
more freedom of thought and motion. Com-
pare the measured lines and cold, polished
style of Pope with the warm romance and
chivalry of many of the later poets, especially
those of Scott or Tennyson, and one cannot
fail to be struck by the change that poetry,
like all other arts, has undergone. And as
these illustrations more clearly define the
characteristics of the romantic school in general,
allow me a few more examples. Students
say that the classic period in sculpture reached
its climax with Phidias and then came the
introspection of Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle.
Man began to yearn to express, not only his
conception of outward beauty of form, but also
his own inner life of joys and sorrows. Thus
the “Laocoon” was not classical, because it
pictured human sufferings—the tortures of soul
and body of the father and sons in the deadly
struggle with the serpents sent to destroy them.
The Venus de Medici was not the abstract
classical beauty of the Greek, because it hinted
at shame, and any such expression was in-
consistent with the character and theory of
the beautiful in Greek art. These are a few
of the evidences of the numerous changes which
took place in art form; changes which were
natural, unavoidable, and inevitable; changes
in the spirit of progress; Carlyle “Zeitgeist.”
And with this “spirit of the times” has come
those vital changes in political and religious
institutions, the drama, fiction, and music,
though changes not by any means con-
temporaneous. Sculpture and architecture
first broke away, though they afterwards en-
deavored to return to their old ideals. Shaks-
peare reconstructed the drama disregarding
the law of the unities and giving us, instead of
mere polished rhetoric, a sentiment of the
beautiful and a love of nature which appeals
to every human heart. But it was in the
early part of this century, in Germany, and
later in France, that what is now recognized
as the romantic school took its first impulse.
Its founders were a band of talented poets,
critics, artists, who left the old regime entirely,
form as well as subject, demanding the right
for each artist of individual expression accord-
ing to any methods that best suited his fancy.
They revived old tales of chivalry and stories
and legends descended, from the Latin or
Romance people of the middle ages,thus giv-
ing this revolutionary tendency in art and
literature the name “Romanticism”
	In music, Beethoven, whose works we are
accustomed to hear spoken of as classical,
is the great pioneer, founder, and type of this
school. His compositions are all classical, in
the proper sense of the word classical, and in
fact his earlier writings are modeled after the
law and style of the older classical masters.
But soon, throwing off the idea of form as an
end, he wrote to express the emotions of the
human heart; showing pictures of joy, sorrow,
heroism, chivalry, and humor.
	To my mind, and it is a remark often heard
among musicians and students, Beethoven
makes the same appeal to the emotions through
the language of sound that Shakespeare makes
to the reader through the medium of speech.
But understand, only the emotions. The
purely romantic school does not pretend to do
more than this. The classicists gave us outline.
The romanticists gave us feeling and content;
it is reserved for a later school to attempt
what never can or will be accomplished in
music, that is to present a fact, a real picture
of objects, actions, and circumstances. Beet-

[Column 3]
hoven’s humor, as he has often shown it in the
scherzi of his symphonies and quartets, is as
strong musically speaking,as is ever Shakspeare
in his wittiest comedy parts; his jokes are as
good, his portrayal of heroism, of happiness,
of gloomy sadness, or of repose is by far
stronger; as the language of sound is more
sensitive and subtle than the medium of speech.
In fact, there is not a line in his better works
that does not breathe some emotion. Beethoven
was, properly speaking, a symphonist; even his
piano sonatas, the best of them, are symphonic.
This is the highest form of composition. His
one opera, “Fidelio,” is considered the purest
type of operatic writing in existence, although
the evidences are visible throughout of the
hampering influences under which he com-
posed it, for he was obliged to write so to
please the Viennese public as well as the
managers and critics who would recognize
only the Italian form. A man of tremendous
passions, shut off from the world by total deaf-
ness; a man completely at variance with the
shallow conventionalities and frivolities of the
popular life of his time; a combination of
subjectivity and objectivity—this is the man
who has reached the highest place in the history
of instrumental music, symphonic writings, just
as Bach, the outgrowth of the reformatory
religious movement, occupies the culminating
position as its exponent in music. In a broad
and higher view Beethoven is classical in the
same sense that Lessing, Schiller, and Goethe 
are called the German classics, for they em-
bodied in poetry that same freedom of thought
and feeling which Beethoven has thrown into
his symphonies and sonatas. Chronologically
speaking, Beethoven’s position in the history of
the romantic school is as much reversed as is
Shakspeare’s, for was not he more than one 
hundred years in advance of his time?
	Beethoven wrote but one small collection of
songs, for he was not a song writer; rather a
symphonist. The great song writer of the
romantic school was Shcubert. There were
songs before him, songs by Haydn, Mozart, and
those by Beethoven, beautiful and touching
expressions of simple thought, and greatly
admired as such. But the celebrated German
“lied,” or song as it became in the hands of
Shcubert, is the realization of romantic lyric
art, and as such unapproachable. Everything
he has written is full of dramatic fire, poetry
and pathos. It is music set, not to simple
ballads or folk-songs, but to long and often
complex poems. He used the best
poetry of the greatest poets, Goethe, Schiller,
Scott, Heine, Shakspeare. See the list of
romantic writers with whom he lived, and
the spirit of his music is not to be wondered at,
He was a romanticist just as they were. He
wedded his music to their poems and intensified
the spirit in them; and he did this with an
absolute reflection of every change and breath
of sentiment in the poetry and always with an
accompaniment of the greatest force, fitness,
and variety. Oftentimes this dramatic element
is so strongly painted; there is so much of the
'Laocoon” present that it seems as if the very
'limits of romanticism had been reached- The
“Erlkoenig” is an example of this tendency.
It is considered the strongest example of
dramatic song-writing in existence. Indeed, it
is always difficult to discern where the line of
demarkation exists in this dramatic element in
music. Schubert’s genius has enabled him,
like his great follower Schumann, to do things
that no others have been able to accomplish,
though there have been hosts of so-called
romantic composers who have over-reached the
limits altogether.


To all men the best friend is virtue; the best
companions are high endeavors and honorable
sentiments.


WOMAN’S EXEONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah	Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	March 1, 1890.


[column 1]
		THE DAYS OF THE JUDGES.

	The rulings of the United States Judges in the
Courts of Utah in the class of cases that come
within the scope of the Edmund's law are to say
the least paradoxical. One day the Judge sitting
upon the bench decides a case and it might be
supposed establishes a precedent, from the
authority of his position, the next case of the
same kind is decided exactly opposite, and it
leaves one not acquainted with the law in great
doubt as to which decision, if either is correct.
The Edmund's law itself makes the enforcement
of its measures sufficiently severe and painful
upon the innocent without any farther stretching
of its statutes and conditions. But these Judges
(some of them) do not hesitate to go beyond the
limit of the law itself, and to declare that the
children of a plural wife, which are positively de-
fined in the Edmund's law, as heirs to the father's
estate, are illegitimate and not entitled to any
part of the father's inheritance.
	The defendants in such disputable cases ought
if possible to carry the suits from one court to
another until the Supreme Court of the United
States shall decide the matter. It is not a trifling
thing and those who talk so much about abiding
the law should be careful to make just and equit-
able decisions in cases, that are to only an or-
dinary mind as clear as daylight. One cannot
help thinking of the old saying "Who shall de-
cide when Doctors disagree?" Now it appears to
be—Who shall decide when Judges disagree?
	However there is a ready answer to this ques-
tion formidable as it may seem. The Supreme
Court of the United States. The Edmund's Law
of March 1882 contains this positive statement.
	"Section 7. That the issue of bigamous or
polygamous marriages, known as Mormon mar-
riages, in cases in which such marriages
have been solemnized according to the cere-
monies of the Mormon sect, in any Territory of
the United States, and such issue shall have been
born before the first day of January Anno
Domini eighteen hundred and eighty-three, are
hereby legitmated."
	The language is unmistakable and how Judge
Marshall could decide that George H. Cope, son
of Thomas Cope deceased, by his plural wife as
not being entitled to a share in the estate of his
father is one of the most remarkable errors on re-
cord. Judge Anderson in the Third District
Court on Monday Jan. 29, 1890 affirmed Judge
Marrhall's decision, the case having come up on
appeal from the Probate Court.
	It would appear from the reasoning of these
two Judges as given in the decisions that they left
the Edmund's law out of the case, whereas the
Edmund's law was created on purpose to settle
these knotty points of the "Mormon" question that
vex the nation at the present time, and unsettle

[column 2]
the judgement of these wise judges, who have un-
dertaken to interpret the law in the courts of
Utah.
	The decision of Judge Bartch in the case of the
children of Apostle Orson Pratt, was in accord-
ance with the facts contained in the Edmund's
law, that they were entitled to heirship in the
estate of the father. His decision is just and
right and strictly in accordance with the provis-
ions of the law enacted for the adjustment of
such difficulties as were likely to arise in the
Courts of law when Congress decided to uproot
and dissever all the marital ties formed accord-
ing to the patriarchal or celestial order of mar-
riage. Senator Edmunds himself will doubtless be
astonished with the decision of Judges Marshal
and Anderson, and Judge Bartch has proven his
independence of opinion in that he dared to disa-
agree with the other two Judges.
	These Judges are not so unanimous in their
decisions as the "Liberals" are in their voting,
Democrats, Republicans, Mugwumps, Jews, Gen-
tiles and Apostats all uniting to carry the late elec-
tion. These people have never ceased to proclaim
against the unanimity of the People's Party, but
the principle was good enough for them to adopt,
and they seem as proud of it as if it were not
borrowed.
	And now we come to another phase of the days
of the Judges, the decision of Judge Zane in the
leasing of buildings rightfully owned by the
Latter-day Saints, but now in litigation on ac-
count of the taking of what was considered
Church property under the enforcement of the
statutes of the Edmund's law. Judge Zane con-
founds tithing with polygamy, the terms are not
synonymous, and have no meaning in common;
they are as distinct and separate so far as simi-
larity is concerned as land and water; yet the
Judge imagines that if people pay tithes they will
practise or at least counsel or advise plural,
marriage. The law of tithing was observed
in the days of the Israelitsh Judges, and also the
practice of polygamy prevailed; or it is so under-
stood; and still another custom which is not now
observed, that of women Judges—for we are told
that Deborah a mother in Israel "judged Israel
forty years" and great and mighty men sought
counsel of Deborah, and who knows but if some
of these puzzled Judges would seek wisdom from
some good mother in modern Israel, they might
be able to understand more clearly the problems
they are undertaking to solve.

[column 3]
On Thursday February 20, 1890, Mr. George H.
Horne and Miss Alice S. Merrill were united in
marriage; the ceremony was performed in the
Logan Temple. On the Monday following, the
24th, a reception for the newly wedded bride and
bridegroom was held at the residence of Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith the grandmother of the
fair young bride.  During the afternoon many
friends called offering congratulations, and par-
taking of choice and delicious refreshments—and
in the evening a large party of young people as-
sembled to honor the occasion. Among these
were twenty-five or thirty of the Shakespere
Club of which Mr. and Mrs. Horne were mem-
bers. One of the happy features of the party was
the crowning of one of the young girls by the
bride with a myrtle wreath. The bride is blind-
folded and the girls circle around her and the
one on whose head she places the wreath of
myrtle is to be wedded next, this is of course a
little innocent fun.  Mrs. Smith's parlors were
profusely decorated with flowers and trailing vines
and there seemed nothing wanting to add to the
happiness of the joyous event. The bride who is
young and beautiful looked charming (of course)
her dress was neat and becoming, of white india
silk and made with her own hands, exquisite soft
lace lay gracefully on her neck, she wore a deli-
cate rose in her hair, vines and white blossoms
were prettily draped from her shoulder to the
waist, she was certainly a handsome bride;—the
young bridegroom is the son of Mr. Joseph Horne
and Mrs. Mary Horne, the bride the daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Merrill, all of this City.
It is needless to say the wedding presents were
numerous, and many of them elegant. They
start out in life under very favorable circum-
stances, and the writer joins with other sincere
friends in congratulations, and hopes that their
future life may be bright, happy and peaceful.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	A letter received from one of the Utah Dele-
gates to the N. A. W. S. A. at Washington D. C.
states that the delegation from this City arrived
in time to attend the banquet in honor of "Miss
Anthony's seventieth birthday, which was a very
grand affair," and also that in the morning ses-
sion of Friday, Feb. 21st, the report from Utah
was announced and Miss Anthony prefaced the re-
port with a grand send off, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
President of the W. S. A. of Utah "walked up
to the front in her dignified and stately manner
and did our Territory most proud. She was im-
mediately supported by Miss Phebe Couzens who
advised the audience to read Mr. Bancroft's His-
tory of Utah and see how our people had been
outrageously misrepresented." Mrs. Kimball,
Mrs. Dougall and her son expected to visit Mt.
Vernon, on the 22nd, Washington's birthday. The
Delegates are expected in this City by the 7th or
8th of this month, when particulars of their visit
and what they have seen and heard as well as
what they have accomplished in the good cause,
will be given in public, as the regular meeting of
the Utah W. S. A. will be held, it is expected on
Monday the 10th of this month.


WASHINGTON CONVENTION.
	The twenty-second annual convention of the
Woman Suffrage Association held at Washing-
ton D. C., Feb. 18, 19, 20, and 21, was dis-
tinguished from those held heretofore by combin-
ing in one the two great organizations hitherto
known as the National and the American; now
uniting the names, to be called the National-
American Woman Suffrage Association. Its of-
ficers chosen by ballot at an Executive session of
both the National and American are Mrs. Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton, President, Miss Susan B.
Anthony, Vice President, Mrs. Rachel Foster
Avery, Recording Secretary, Miss Alice Stone
Blackwell, Corresponding Secretary, Mrs. Lucy
Stone, Chairman Executive Committee, Mrs. Jane
H. Spofford, Treasurer, Miss Eliza Ward and F.
H. Hinckley, Auditors.
	On the first day of the Convention very able
and interesting addresses were made by Hon.
Wm. Dudley Foulke, the late President of the
American W. S. A. and Mrs. Elizabeth Cady
Stanton President of the National W. S. A. for
many years; there was also an impromptu speech
by Mrs. Harriet Stanton Blatch said to have been
quite a brilliant effort.
	Mrs. Stanton's address contains many strong
points, and the chief barriers in the way of suc-
cess to the movement are carefully marked out
and the first one named is, "The apathy and in-
difference of society to all reforms." At some
future time we may give the speech in full  in our
columns.
	Mrs. Stanton and her daughter Mrs. Blatch sailed
for Europe the following day.
	At the morning sessions after the first day, re-
ports of the delegates from States and Territories
came in their order, followed by discussions, and
at the evening sessions addresses were made
upon subjects of the utmost importance; such as


[Column 1]
“Woman Suffrage a Growth of Civilization,'
"The Progress of Woman," "Chivalry of Re-
form," "A Whole Humanity," "Where is the 
Mistake," "Our Unconscious Allies." These
topics were all ably handled by intellectual and
gifted speakers.
	There is no doubt in the mind of the writer that
the union of these two great forces will have a
powerful effect in bringing about the desired result
that it will hasten more surely and rapidly the
ultimate success of the great woman suffrage
movement viz: the enfranchisement of woman in
the United States. Mrs. Stanton in some Reso-
lutions prepared by her and presented to the Con-
vention sets forth her ideas in regard to the or-
ganized work for the immediate future. We give
them in full, but we are not as yet aware whether
they have been adopted by the Association as
they stand.
RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED BY MRS. STANTON.			
	Whereas, Our labors with Congress and State
Legislatures should henceforward be carried on
with renewed determination, zeal and consecra-
tion; therefore	
	Resolved, That a thorough and widespread or-
ganization of our forces must be secured, that by
concentrated action we may make our united
powers irresistible at any given time and place.
	Whereas, the constitutions of the original thir-
teen colonies made no distinctions of sex, and
women in the early days exercised the right of
suffrage; and
	Whereas, by the principles laid down in the
Declaration of Independence, and by the letter
and spirit of the National constitution women are
citizens and voters; therefore
	Resolved, That the persecutions of the Freed-
men to-day are due to the narrow policy of their
defenders, a quarter of century ago, making justice
one thing for the black man, and and another for
woman, thus confusing the moral sense of the
nation, and by denying the application of a prin-
ciple to one class, jeopardizing the rights of all. 
	Resolved, That as the fathers violated the prin-
ciples of justice; in consenting to a three-fifths
representation, recognizing slavery in the consti-
tution, and thereby made a civil war inevitable; 
so our statesmen and supreme court judges, by
their misrepresentations of the 14th amendment,
declaring that the United States has no voters, 
and that citizenship does not carry with it the
right of suffrage; have not only prolonged wo-
man's disfranchisement, but undermined the status
of the Freedman, and opened the way for other
war of races.
	Whereas, It is proposed to have a national law,
restricting the right of divorce to a narrower
basis, and
	Whereas, Congress has already made an appro-
priation for a Report on the Question, which 
shows that there are 10,000 divorces annually in
the United States and the majority demanded by
women; and
	Whereas, liberal divorce laws for wives are
what Canada was for the States—a door of escape
from bondage; therefore
	Resolved, That there be no farther legislation
in this question until woman has a voice in the 
state and national government;
	*		*		*		*		*		*
	Whereas, The greatest question before  the
American people to day is the enfranchisement of
[Column 2]
woman, involving as it does the civil and politi-
cal rights of one-half the people; and
	Whereas, The sole object of the National-
American Association is to accomplish this pur-
pose; therefore
	Resolved, That our platform in the future as in
the past must recognize the equal rights of all
parties, sects and races, manifest a broad Catholic
spirit, for all shades of opinion in which we may
differ, and ever hold our personal differences
subordinate to the greater good that can be accom-
plished by harmonious and concentrated action.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO SUSAN B. ANTHONY.

[ON HER SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY]

With noble soul and brave and tender heart
	And will-power strong in efforts to do good, 
Through fires of persecution thou'st built up
	A higher, wiser, nobler womanhood.
Unto the weak thou'st strength and courage given,
	Uplifting them from valleys of despair;
And wisdom-welded weapons bright and strong
	To cleave the wrongs thy sister had to bear.

Self-sacrificing and courageous one,
	True to thyself, thy country and thy cause,
To thee will future generations turn
	In gratitude, for all the humane laws
Won by thy efforts to have justice done!
	Unto thy wise co-workers and to thee,
Some day, will woman's thankful life repeat--
	"I bless their names that I too, I am free!"

Oh tried and true! Thy trusty hand hath made
	A pathway for our faltering feet to tread;
And we who follow, find the flowers spring
	Where once but weeds and thorns and thickets spread.
Oh, whne for thee the silent boatman calls,
	And sets his bark towards the eternal shore,
May thy glad spirit find a welcome sweet,
	From friends whom thou hast known and loved be-
		fore!
						AMARALA MARTIN.
Cairo, Ill.


SOME OF MISS ANTHONY’S VIEWS.
	“Our Association has always allowed the utmost
freedom to vote against everything that would
 block our way, no matter whether it was the
church, or what it was.  Anything and every-
thing that stood in the way of progress was al-
ways likely to get its head knocked off on the plat-
form of the National Woman Suffrage Association.
I want every one who claims to be a National to
stand for this broad principle.  I want our plat-
form to be kept broad enough for the infidel, the
atheist, the Mohammedan, or the Christian. I
remember thirty years ago George William Curtis
said to me: “If you want your platform to suc-
ceed you must not allow Mrs. Ernestine L. Rose
to stand upon it, she’s a pronounced atheist.” I
said: “We shall never turn her out.” Now we
have come to another phase of the fight, and if it
is necessary, I will fight another forty years to
make it broad enough for the Christian to stand
upon, whether she be a Catholic, and counts her
her beads, or a Protestant of the straightest or-
thodox creed.  I shall fight for the rights of the
Christians to-day, as for the rights of the infidels
forty years ago.  We have also delegates from
Utah on our platform.  Let not the Nationals go
back on their record.  Every woman, whether she
be Mormon or Gentile, has the right to vote.  It
was a dastardly act of Congress in disfranchising
the women of Utah.  They are here to-day with
a magnificent delegation.”
	“These are the broad principles I want you to
stand upon, that our platform may be kept as
broad as the universe, that upon it may stand the
representatives of all creeds and no creeds—
Pagan, Jew, Gentile or Christian, Protestant or
Catholic. (Applause.)”


A NAUVOO WOMAN.
	The Nauvoo Independent of Feb. 7, contains
 the following notice which may be of interest to
some of the Latter-day Saints who formerly re-
sided there.  We had a conversation with
the deceased in March 1886, and she expressed
to us her faith in the principles of the Gospel.
Her children were some of them members of
other churches.—Ed.
ANOTHER OLD SETTLER GONE.
	“Mrs. Elizabeth Clark, one of Nauvoo’s oldest
settlers, died of influenza complicated with
pneumonia, at her residence in the Third ward, at
nine o’clock Friday morning, Jan. 31, 1890, aged
77 years, 9 months and 29 days.  Mrs. Clark was
born in Lancashire, England, in the year 1812.
She was married to Francis Clark in 1831, and
they came to this city in 1841; the children born
to them being six sons and four daughters—Sarah,
William, John, Eber, Joseph, Alfred, Margaret
Alice, Mary Jane, Elizabeth Ann and Francis,
nine of whom are still living.  She was beloved
by those who knew her and respected by the com-
munity in which she lived.  The funeral took
place from her residence, 17th and Parley Sts.,
Sunday, Feb. 2nd, at 1:30 p.m. and was conducted
by Rev. R. Lambert and son William, of Rock
Creek, after which the remains were followed to
the Mormon cemetery by a large procession of
sorrowing relatives and friends and there de-
posited by the side of her husband long since
laid to rest.”
	"She is not dead, yet death has done its work, 
	It came, but not in ghastliness—it, as
	A kindly porter, set the gates ajar.
	And he stepped forth, leaving the tenement
	A breathless corse, that slumbers in the tomb;
	'Twas worn and weary and it needeth rest.
	No faith, nor prayers, nor the heart’s yearnings,
	The loving and beloved could longer bind 
	That mighty spirit in an earthly form."


FOR THE TIME BEING.
	The serio-comic woes of editors in general
form a constant theme for the newspapers. We
are all acquainted with the bore who will not go,
the paying subscriber who will not come, with
the writer of Spring poetry, and the fierce fault-
finder, who says in substance, “Retract or die.”
But did any one ever mention the peculiar trials
that fall to the lot of an editor pro tem?  They
arise, to be sure, from his (or her) own incompe-
tency, but that fact is not, in itself, soothing. 
	The undersigned in a rash moment, and in the
absence of a better person, promised to take care
of the Woman's Journal for a week while the
editors were in Washington.  She has been ac-
customed to bestow free home criticism upon the
powers that be,—but hereby meekly takes it all
back, realizing that precept and example are
quite different things, and that in a printing-office
one sees most forcibly,that this is indeed a “world
of limitations.”	
	When an article is left out because, in your
ignorance, you did not mark it properly; when
the manuscript about whose correct printing you 
feel the most anxiety is in nearly hopeless hier-
oplyphics; when you think you have piled in
matter enough to last a week, and are told that
“we shall need at least five columns more.”—
then alert foreman and swift fingered composi-
tors seem to your frantic mind to become pursu-
ing demons, joining in one insatiate cry for “copy,
copy!”
	One dear editor, who, deciding at the last mo-
ment that “discretion is the better part of valor,’
gives up Washington under the pressure of a
severe cold, sends in to the city office a kindly
word, saying, “You may still be editor for the
week, and I know we shall have a bright num-
ber.”


It is meant for compliment and cheer, but a
hopeless dulness envelopes me from that moment.
It recalls a certain woman in the country, of 
humorous nature and jocose habit, who was in-
vited to a little evening party in simple style.
The good lady was enjoying herself quietly,
when peace and comfort took flight at the whis-
pered message from a little girl, "Mother says,
Won't you please begin to be funny now?"
	I keep back matter as far as possible, waiting
for the report from Washington up to date.   I
have a vision of long descriptions of the brilliant
meetings, with verbatim newspaper reports in-
terpolated, giving the speeches in full, and I
judged that I must reserve for it at least four 
columns.  What is my horror to receive an en-
velope with one strip instead of many, and the
accompanying succinct statement:  "This mean
little report is all I can send you."
	Far be it from me to contradict the junior 
editor, in whose judgment I place the greatest 
confidence.   The report is excellent, so far as it
goes; but as I think of the yawning columns
which I hoped to fill with the eloquence of Mrs.
Stanton, the power of Mr. Foulke, the convincing
charm of Mrs. Chant, I am not disposed to
differ.
	Next week eye-witnesses will tell the whole
rich story of the Washington Convention; and,
as when people have nothing else to say or think
about, they invariably dilate upon their own
miseries, that shall be the excuse for the present
writing.
								C. W.
	Woman's Journal.


WOMAN’S' EXPONENT.


ALL NATIONS IN ONE.
	“I am no respecter of persons, but in every
nation they that fear me and keep my command-
ments are respected of me.” These words were
spoken by One whom we should always have in
memory because He died that we might have
eternal life.  He is our elder brother, and is con-
tinually pleading for us before our Heavenly
Father. It is in His name and through His in-
tercession that we receive every blessing. We
should therefore take Him for our pattern and
example.  It is not my intention however in this
article to show the beautiful traits of character of
the Savior but to write on the unity that should
exist among His chosen people.
	Israel is scattered through all nations and the
Latter-day Saints are continually sending out
Elders to “Tell the glad tidings of great joy," and
the sheep know the voice of the true shepherds,
and gladly leave home and friends and often
break every earthly tie to gather to Zion, thus ful-
filling the scripture which says, “I will gather one
of a city and two of a family.” Here in this
chosen land we are or should be baptized into one
nation; dropping all nationality, and not boasting
that I am better, than you because I am an
American, or if English, that there is nothing
good outside of England, but that we had every-
thing so grand there and the manners of the
English are so superior, or to look down, as many
do, on our Danish brothers and sisters. What
difference does it make what portion of the
Globe was assigned to us as a birth place so that
we are true and faithful, and following in the foot-
steps of our meek and lowly Savior. “The elect
will be gathered from the four quarters of the
earth.” Who are the elect? They are the pure
in heart and they shall see God. Can we behold
His face until we put away from us all haughti-
ness of spirit and put on the mantle of charity
which should cover us as a garment.
	How often has the tender feelings of a sensi-
tive, loving heart been bruised and bowed with
sorrow because of some selfish unkind word,
thrown as a slur at their nation and at them be-
cause they belong to that nation.


Does it not show ignorance of the first rule of
all true politeness, for true etiquette comes from
the heart and is a desire to do as we would be
done by, and make all around us happy. It also
shows ignorance of the true spirit of the Gospel
and of the teachings of our Savior. 
	Why should I boast of lands or state,
		Ancestral halls, or place of birth?
	It is not these that make me great,
		Or adds one atom to my worth.
	Because my brother chanced to be
		In some far distant nation born 
	Is he therefore the less than me, 
		Or should I laugh him unto scorn ?
	God placed His children where He would
		On continent or sea-girt isle.
	And doubtless fully understood
		And had His motives all the while,
	And judges them from acts alone 	
		And not from lands from whence they sprung.
	That will not matter when 'tis shown 
		Their actions have been right of wrong.
							Bird Robinson.
Fillmore.


[Column 1]
W. S. A. OF EMERY CO.
	The W. S. A. of Emery Co., held their
quarterly meeting at Huntington, Feb. the 9th,
1890. Pres. S. A. Fullmer in the chair. The
choir sang “Let us be faithful and true,"
prayer by Bishop Pulsipher singing "As thy
day thy strength shall be." The business of
the Association was proceeded with,after which
an address was given by Mrs. McGee, upon
the Rights and Privileges of Woman, we were
then favored with a song by Mrs. Allen and 
company, an Address by Pres. S. A. Fullmer
and one by Mrs. T. C. Avery.
	Professor Maeser being present was called
upon to address the meeting, he felt highly
pleased, he had paid no attention hitherto, to
the question of Woman Suffrage but to night
he felt interested, he had found that there was
safety in woman's counsel, and as he under-
stood our position, he did not think we asked
too much, as all would acknowledge that wo-
man weilded a great influence over all.
	Mr. Larsen then addressed the meetiing he
felt to sustain the ladies in their efforts and
thought they being citizens ought to vote al-
though he could not, being disfranchised
under the Edmunds law. A recess was then
given for 15 minutes as an opportunity to give
in their names, 15 names were added to the
list. 
	Singing by the choir.  Adjourned for three
months.  Benediction by Mr. Jasper Robert-
son. 
			JOANNA P. CURTIS, Cor. Sec.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
	Being called upon to address you upon the 
subject of Woman's Rights, I will say al-
though I feel incompetent to do justice to the
subject, yet I am proud of the opportunity, I
am proud that women begin to feel that they
 should have political rights equal with men,
and that those rights ought to be respected.
We live in an enlightened age of the world's
history, an age, when great developments will
be made, and not the least amongst these will
be Woman in her true position. The help-
meet of man in all the avocations in life, re-
ligiously, socially, and politically. But some
will say: was not man made to rule over wo-
man? is he not the head? and should she not
submit to his rule? granted, to a certain extent.
But what is this ruling power? is it to subju-
gate into a sert, or slave, the woman that was
placed by his side to be a helpmeet, a com-
panion, a counselor, O, no! The governing
power, is an equalizing power as I understand
it, one, that will exalt the governed, to the
high pinnacle of power and greatness, enjoyed
by those who govern, hence! woman has a 
[Column 2]
right, an indisputable right, to enjoy all the
honors, the powers, the intelligence, the great-
ness, and the position she is capable of attain-
ing, equal with man. She being a responsible
person, an entity, a free agent, having to give
an account of the use she has made of that
agency, independent of man, she has the right 
to the freedom of conscience, the right to be-
come intelligent, to master the sciences, to be-
come great, to be a doctor, a lawyer, to hold
political office, to have a voice in the nation;
she has a right to say who shall handle her
taxes, and who shall govern her sons and
daughters. We have a right to support the
principle of religious freedom at all hazards,
a right derived from our Maker, also from
the fathers of this Great Republic, bought at
the expense of their ease, their comfort and 
their blood. Let it not be said that the blood
was shed in vain. Let us acknowledge, the
blessing of freedom and liberty! let us cherish
it as a heavenly boon and resolve to maintain
and perpetuate it, a Representative govern-
ment of Equal Rights, not for part of this vast
Continent, not to those who have an interest
in office and place, but for the people, the
whole people. 
	The Constitution itself is but the creature
of the public will: and in every crisis which
threatens it, it must owe its security to the
same power to which it owes its origin. The
women of Utah have been deprived of a right
which they held most dear, the right to vote,
and we may not regain that right; but we have
the privilege of protest, which we do most em-
phatically and we will continue to petition for
our rights as citizens of this "Land of the free,
and home of the brave," it makes our hearts
bleed, and our heads droop with shame, when
we read of our once proud flag trailing in the 
dust, heavy with test oaths, iron clad in their
nature, and the right of franchise taken from
men and women on account of their religious
belief; where is the spirit of the framers of our
glorious Constitution? where is the spirit of 
our Pilgrim Fathers, who thanked God that
this land was the Asylum of Religious Liberty?
History instructs us that the love of Religious
Liberty is a compound sentiment in the breast
of man, made up of the clearest sense of right,
and the highest conviction of duty, yet in this
free land, man is reduced to serfdom for the
exercise of this conviction.
	Woman by her influence and training,
makes our statesmen, our judges, and  our
mighty men; she instils into the mind of the
child the rudimental principles that govern his
after life; she implants the germ of reverence
to the Diety, the Almighty ruling power, she
teaches his infant lips to pray, she inspires in
his young mind the love of Liberty, the love
of Truth, of Honor, of Nobility, and she in-
stils into his young mind lofty and exalted ideas
and by her moral training she gives him a 
love of virtue, of chastity and innocence, and
an insight into the laws of life and health, and
yet, she is regarded as unfit to have the rights
that are awarded to colored men; but we as
the women of this country feel to throw off
the yoke and to come to the front, in the
support of equal rights socially, morally and
politically; we have the right religiously of
voting in all our organizations, and feel to appre-
ciate the privilege.
	Ladies, let me exhort you to thought and
study, so that we may understand our rights,
and the duties and responsibilies resting upon
us, and when we understand, let us dare to
maintain them; don't think that your Maker
intended that you should grovel in the dust,
that you should feel that you could not do
anything to elevate yourselves to a high
standard of education in all the pursuits of
life; we have a noble work before us, and we
call upon all the ladies of this county to join
our ranks and give their support to the W. S.


A. and let our minds soar aloft to a higher
standard, of intelligence, cultivnte, a spirit of
benevolence, and charity, and let us unitedly
unfurl the standard of equal right, and re-
ligious liberty, and may it wave as an ensign
of peace and security to all who enlist under
its banners.
					Sarah Ann Fullmer,
Pres. W.S. A. Emery Co.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent:
A NOBLE WOMAN.
	It is customary to praise the dead. We
scarcely ever hear of anybody’s goodness be-
ing spoken of until death claims them. And
then I often think some get more than they
merited; but there are some who don’t get
their just dues. I think it would be a good
idea to give the deserving living a kind word
once in a while, as they struggle through this
world of pain. Why should we wait until a
person is silent and cold before we speak their
praises? A kind word makes life brighter
and often gives strength to the weak and
weary.
	One of the noblest women I ever knew was
Aunt Julia Simons. Dear Aunt Julia is get-
ting old and feeble now; but a more noble,
self-sacrificing woman never breathed the
breath of life. In the days of her prosperity
and activity the homeless and the needy could
always find a friend. Many a sad heart has
she made rejoice through her benevolent actions
and her kind cheering encouraging words.
She is a true lady of extraordinary intelligence
and very industrious. There is scarcely any
kind of work that she did not excel in at some
time in her life. I have seen this estimable
lady many times at her loom weaving sur-
rounded by her little grandchildren; whom
she would teach at the same time to read and
spell.
	Aunt Julia has seen many trials and was
one of the many who were driven from their
homes in the early rise of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter Day Saints. Much could be
written of interest of this noble woman’s use-
ful life. Dear Aunt Julia don’t feel bad in
your old age because you have not strength
to earn means to give to the poor. Don’t
imagine that you are a trouble and that you
are in the way. The world owes you much
Dear Aunt. Just sit down in the rocking-
chair and be content. Thousands are in
your debt.
	In conclusion I ask Our Heavenly Father
to bless Dear Aunt Julia with the choicest
blessings of Heaven. For a nobler, grander,
truer hearted woman never was born I am sure.
	Dear Aunt Julia lift up your heart and
rejoice.
							A. E. A.
	Salina Sevier Co. Utah.


BANQUET TO MISS ANTHONY.
	The celebration in honor of Miss Susan B.
Anthony’s seventieth birthday, preparations
for which have been going on for some time
by Mrs. May Wright Sewall and Mrs. Rachel
Foster Avery, took place on the evening of
Feb. 15, at the Riggs House Washington, D.
C.
	A reception was given in the great parlors
of the hotel, and a large number of friends
tendered congratulations to Miss Anthony.
Towards, ten o’clock the company went to
the dining-room. In the procession Senator
Blair escorted Miss Anthony. Directly behind
them came Robert Purvis, escorting Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and then followed
about 160 others.
	The room was handsomely festooned with


flags overlooped with streamers, and decorated
with potted plants and baskets of cut flowers.
The wall at the south end was entirely hidden
from sight by banking, and standing out
near the ceiling was the word "Welcome."
	The diners were divided into small coteries
of eight and ten seated at round tables placed
in a semi-circle around a larger elevated table,
at which sat Mrs. May Wright Sewall, who
presided, the guests of the evening, and the
speakers.
	After an excellent supper, toasts and re-
sponses were given, as follows:
	"Three Score and ten," an original poem,
by E. Boynton Harbert, and read by Sara
Winthtrop Smith.
	"St. Susan, Our Valentine, One Day Be-
hind Hand, but Not Too Late For Service,"
response by Phoebe W. Couzins.
	"The Modern Peripatetic." response by
Rev. Anna H. Shaw.
	"Miss Anthony as Fellow-worker," response
by Matilda Joslyn Gage.
	"American Womanhood," response by L.
Ormiston C[-]ant, of England.
	"Miss Anthony as a Journalist," response
by Clara Bewick Colby.
	"Change," response by Robert Purvis of
Philadelphia.
	"Miss Anthony at Home," response by Mrs.
Janet Marsh Parker.
	"The Friendship of Women," response by
Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
	"The Young Disciple," response by Mrs.
Harriet Stanton Blatch.
	After the singing of "Auld Lang Syne"
by the guests, Miss Anthony rose to speak, and
was greeted with long-continued applause.
She said a few words of gratitude, half
humorous, half-pathetic, made a brief address
in the course of which she paid a high tribute
to Mrs. Stanton, and finally sat down amid
renewed applause.
	Between the toasts there was music, and
recitations by Miss Elizabeth Johnson, Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, and Mrs. Isabella Beecher
Hooker. Congratulatory letters were read
from J. G. Whittier. William Lloyd Garrison,
George William Curtis, Senators Hoar of
Massachusetts, Sherman of Ohio, and Mander-
son, of Nebraska; Speaker Reed, Lucy Stone
Frances E. Willard, M. Louise Thomas, Rev.
Rush Shippen and Mrs. Henderson. Many
other letters were received which could not
be read for lack of time. Telegrams from
the Woman's Political Club of Rochester,
from the Ladies’ Unitarian Society of that city
and from the Woman's Union of Norway,
were read by Mrs. Harriet Stanton Blatch.
After a delightful evening, the company broke
up somewhere in the "wee sma" hours."


VIEWS ON COURTSHIP AND
MARRIAGE. 
BY DR. GEO. THOMAS DOWLING.
	Solomon says it is a good thing for a man
to secure a wife, but Paul says it is not always
good to be married. I would rather take the
advice of Solomon. Paul never had any
experience in marriage, but Solomon had
nine hundred wives. The best work in the
world has been done by married men.
	First under consideration comes courtship.
I would not give much advice on that, for I
never met any young people who needed any
instruction. The trouble with young people is
that they do not look at facts as they are.
They marry an idea. Adonis thinks it just an
accident that she chanced to marry him, and
Venus believes it was by the merest chance
that he happened to marry her. After
marriage, Venus sees Adonis come home from
his daily toil and lie in his shirt sleeves upon


the lounge, taking an evening nap and snoring
away, for all the world like her brother Tom.
He sees Venus in a calico dress, with her hair
rolled back in a tight little knot at the back
of her head, siting at the other side of the table
eating pork and beans, and probably conquer-
ing the second plate, and awakens to the fact
that she is just a good hearted mortal like
his sister Mary Ann. A courtship is like the
measles—people have it but once. If I were to
ask the question, “Is marriage a failure? I
would answer that it is only when the people
are failures. I believe in love, and love at
first sight; but, as a rule, I would advise a
second look. In nine hundred and ninety-nine
cases the first is no love at all. Then how
many marry upon surface recommendation,
because of graceful carriage, fine dancing,
smooth-gossip upon society affairs, or some such
thing. The best of worst fortune of a man
or woman is husband or wife. Mrs Browning
says:
		“A loving woman finds heaven or hell
		  In the day she becomes a bride.”
	A man may escape the troubles of an un-
fortunate union in his club and mixing in the
world, but for women there is no escape but
in the grave. If a man won’t reform before
marriage he may drag woman down, but
woman cannot drag him up. Woe to the
marriage where the god  who presides is
Cupidity instead of Cupid.  Mrs. Carlyle said,
“I married for ambition and though Mr.
Carlyle has reached hights I never dreamed
of, I am a miserable woman.” How does a
young man treat his mother? He will treat
you the same after the honey-moon has passed. 
What is hell but truths known too late. The
most trying period is that of the honey-moon.
Most divorce cases have their real origin
during the first year. People need to get into
the habit of being married just like getting
used to wearing new shoes. Do not interfere
between husband and wife. Sidney Smith
said, “Married people are like a pair of shears;
sometimes going in opposite directions, but
sure to cut any one coming between  them.”
If I could I would wipe out the word mother-
in law on account of its suggestions, but under
every popular prejudice there, is truth. There
should be a national marriage law. If a man
travels from Maine to California he can be
married, divorced, a bigamist or a bachelor
according to the state he is in. The trouble
in mismated marriages is that often the yoke is
not so burdensome as the pulling to get away
from it. Act at home as you do in a neighbor's
house to have a pleasant home life.


It was thought that there was not in the
United States any memorial of Christopher
Columbus.  One, however, has been found.
The consul general of France at Baltimore, in
1874, erected a column which bears the name 
of the discoverer.  He placed it in an obscure
place on his grounds, and when streets were
laid out it there remained, hidden from sight
by trees and shrubs.  It was almost forgotten
till recently, when it was brought to light.


A SAD BEREAVEMENT.

	It is with deep regret that I tender you the sad news of
three sweet little members of our Primary Association,
whom, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to call into His
presence.  The dreaded diphtheria which quarantined
many homes here for two months past, was the cause of
their demise, Dec. 23rd, 1889 Sanford B. Lewis a lovely
boy in his tenth year and only son of Sister Martha Ann
Lewis—January 9th 1890 also his younger sister Amy in
her eighth year.  Also January 21st, 1890, Joseph F.
Skidmore seven years old, son of our good, kind Bishop.
The parents and families have the sympathy of the entire
ward, while our feelings of tenderness as an Association
cannot be expressed in words.


The dearest, faithful little members,
		Will be missed in all our meetings,
	They make less, our happy numbers
		Who used to meet in fondly greetings.
	They are gone but hope is left us
		Of meeting them all again,
	For 'twas God who did bereave us
		He gives the hope, we'll e'er maintain.
					MARY ALLSOP, Pres.
					HARRIET LAWRENCE, Sec.
Primary Association, Richmond.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	On Monday 10-30 p. m. Dec. 20th, Sister Jane Johns-
ton Black of Deseret, departed this life, aged 89.
	Sister Black was the mother of four children, three sons
and one daughter, two sons of whom are now living.
	The various scenes of her pioneer life in Utah and those
attending her emigration from the Old Country are con-
nected with the lives of many Latter-day Saints.
	She encountered many hardships in the early settling of
Utah, and her greatest delight was in bearing a faithful
testimony of the Gospel and of Joseph Smith being a true
Prophet of God.
	She was driven across the Mississippi River by the mob
and upon one occasion she was hiding some fire arms
of the peoples, under the wagon wheel, when the mob rode
up and asked her what she was doing.  She answered
“that the Saints were to have power to resurrect, and
that was what she was doing.  They said the woman was
crazy and left her alone. There are many of her sex who
claim her as mother to them in sickness and trouble as she
always had words of encouragement and comfort for them.
In her last moments she expressed her great joy in being
with God's chosen people.	
	Her remains were shipped to Rockville, in Southern
Utah, to be buried beside those of her husband.
	She was a faithful member of the Relief Society and at-
tended her meetings until a few weeks before her death.
										Com.
	Deseret, Dec. 5th, 1889.

	Died at her parent’s residence in Deweyville on the 18th
of January, Emily Jane, beloved wife of James T. Lindsey,
and daughter of Bishop J. C. and Mary Dewey, aged 27
years next May.  She was a faithful Latter-day Saint and
one possessing many noble qualities of mind, kind, amiable
and benevolent which fained for her the [---]
of all who knew her.  She was the mother of four children
three of whom are living.  The husband has sustained a
great loss and has the sympathy of the entire settlement;
she was not only a devoted wife and kind mother, but one
that was loved to a great degree by her father, mother,
brothers and sisters, and all the members of a large family;
the sorrow that each felt at her death no one can realize
but those that are called to mourn.
	The funeral services were held at the Deweyville school
house on the 21st of January, and although the weather
was cold, still the friends of the deceased turned out
enmasse to pay a last token of respect to one so truly
loved.  She was also a member of the Relief Society and
First Counselor to the Pres. of the Primary Association in
Star Valley at her home.
	Consoling remarks were made by Counselor F. Durfee
and Elder C. Dunn of Deweyville, and also A. Burt and
Charles Kelley Counselors to the Pres. of Box Elder
Stake, after which her remains were conveyed to the
cemetery and laid to rest with a sure and certain hope of a
glorious resurrection.  Dedicatory Prayer was offered at
the grave by C Kelley.
		MARY DEWEY, Pres. Deweyville Relief Society.

	Among the good and true that have been gathered to
the silent tomb in this locality the past few months, none
has received greater expressions of gratitude and affection
than Sister Nancy E. Hall, who departed this life after
much suffering and lingering sickness.  Sister Hall was
borne near Jamestown, Russel Co., Kentucky, Feb. 23rd,
1826.  Was married to Edward Hall, Feb. 2nd, 1842.
Was baptized at Fort Kearney, July 5th, 1850, by Bishop
David Evans.  Arrived at Springville, March 10th, 1851,
where she resided until her death, which occured Jan. 24th,
1890.
	Kindness and sympathy towards suffering humanity has
been among the most prominent features of her life.  In
the cabin of the poor, or in the circles of the wealthy no
discrimination was shown.  Sunshine or storm, day or
night, Sister Hall was always on hand to act the part of 

[Column 2]
the "good Samaritan," ministering to the afflicted and
comforting the sorrowing.  Assisting at the birth of over
600 children, and clothed over 300 for the tomb.  She
was the mother of eleven children, grandmother to 56,
and great-grandmother to 17.  As a member of the Relief
Society, Sister Hall filled a very important position seeking
for her service neither fee nor reward in this life.  She has
gone with a record full of merit to her memory, that will
credit her a full reward and ample compensation for a
lifetime of usefulness and benefits bestowed by her
generous hands upon the suffering sons and daughters of
humanity.
					ANN D. BRINGHURST, Pres.
					SARAH L. MENDENHALL, Sec.


[Column 1]
[Union Pacific Logo: UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J. V. PARKER,
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.		
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 305. SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
$5000.00 In Prizes
GIVEN AWAY
BY THE
SALT LAKE HERALD,
TO SUBSCRIBERS OF THE 
SEMI-WEEKLY ISSUE.

	The Semi-Weekly Herald is now the largest, brightest
and most enterprising paper published in Utah.  It
consists of 8 pages, and is shortly to be re-enlarged. The
Herald publishes the most standard current stories by
special arrangement with the authors; containing many
illustrated features; has the exclusive rights to Bill
Nye’s letters; maintains a regular telegraphic corres-
pondent in Washington, and receives weekly letters
from the celebrated correspondent Frank G. Carpenter.
Special attention is paid to market reports and agri-
cultural news; and a prominent feature will be made of
religious news, the tabernacle services being regularly
reported, while prominent sermons of the leading
church authorities are given in full. In politics, The
Herald stands as it has ever stood, the firm and un-
deviating champion of the rights of the people of Utah.

The Premium Distribution for 1890
Will be on a grander scale than ever before, 
FIFTEEN HUNDRED PRIZES,
Aggreating in value over $5000.00,
Being distributed among all subscribers to the Semi-
Weekly early in April.
Prize No. 1 is an upright Fischer piano, worth
	$500 cash.	
Prize No. 2 is a thoroughbred Holstein bull, 
	worth $200.
Prize No. 3 is a Bain wagon, worth $175.
Prize No. 4 is a lot in Garden City, worth $150.
Prize No. 5 is a yearling heifer, worth $125.
Prize No. 6 is a purse of $100 in gold, and in
	the list are several hundred dollars in gold
	in smaller purses, while included in the
	1500 prizes are sewing machines, mowers,
	reapers, rifles, photos, steel engravings,
	encyclopedias, toilet sets, fruit trees, shade,
	trees, dishes, stoves, books, etc., 
FIFTEEN HUNDRED IN ALL!
Which will be distributed among all who
subscribe for
THE SEMI-WEEKLY HERALD
Price $3.00 per year.
Send for a descriptive catalogue free.
Address
THE HERALD Co., Salt Lake.

	Officers:
	JOHN T. CAINE, President,
	HEBER J. GRANT, Vice-President.
	HORACE G. WHITNEY, Business Manager.
DIRECTORS: 	
FRANCIS ARMSTRONG,	W. H. ROWE,
W. W. RITER.				S. P. TEASDEL,
JUNIUS F. WEELS, 		HEBER M. WELLS,
RICHARD W. YOUNG, 	E. G. WOOLLEY,
CHAS S. BURTON, 		JAS. SHARP,
ELIAS A. SMITH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 18.   SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1890.   NO. 20.


CONTENTS.
     Good Counsel,—M. Daniels.  Hephzibah.
Three Score and Ten,—A. M. Tanner. Sincerity,
—M. E. K.  A. Perfect Home,—H. H. Utah W.
S. A.  My Subject is Suffrage,—Dr. E. S. Barney.
R. S. Report—Malad.  Schools of Music. Notes
and News.
	Editorial:—From Kirtland to Salt Lake City.
L. D. S. Womens' Meetings.  Notes.  Woman
Suffrage Petition.  Utah Delegates.  Rambling
Thoughts,—Z. D. H. Young. Education,—X.
The World's Civilization and Politics,—Mary
Ann M. Pratt.
	Poetry:—Beautiful Isle of God,—Flora S. Hill.
Lines In Memory of Sister M. J. Tanner,—
Deborah Billings.  Joseph Pollard,—Hope. The
Better Time to Come,—John W. Hutchinson.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
		BEAUTIFUL ISLE OF GOD.
	
	The poor man plods on his humble way,
		As the rich man drives along,
	And he muses on fortune's odd display,
		And the depth of the poor man's wrong,
	And he asks, why this bounteous world so wide,
		Has made him a common clod,
	There is no false picture of want or pride,
		In the beautiful isle of God.

	So old and so cunningly wrought its scheme,
		Is the error of royal birth,
	That the world accepts the imperial dream,
		As an edict of venerable worth.
	Yet every one knows that a man is a man
		Be he monarch of crown or sod,
	Peasant and prince on a level will stand
		In the beautiful isle of God.

	Beguiled by vicissitudes dark embrace,
		The maiden once fair as snow--
	Both nature and man seem to interlace,
		To weave the unanswered woe,
	Injustice follows the erring mind,
		Till refined by the mournful sod,
	The clemency earth denies we will find,
		In the beautiful isle of God.

	With impartial gems we will all be crowned,
		When we get to that equal shore,
	Intelligence there will not be bound,
		By the frauds of traditional lore;
	The mines of truth unrevealed will unroll,
		By the world's gross step untrod,
	No ignorant myths will enslave the soul,
		In the beautiful isle of God.

	Some day, having learned, we will cease to ask,
		Why our roses scatter and fade,
	Why joy is dethroned by somber task,
		Leaving us 'lone and afraid;
	Why existence flows in a sorrowful tide,
		To the sepulcher's dread abode,
	'Tis writ on the dark cloud's silver side,
		In the beautiful isle of God.
									FLORA S. HILL.
Salt Lake City, March 3, '90.


[Column 1]
 		   GOOD COUNSEL.
	To the parents and my dear young brethren
and sisters of the Primary. Being requested
by President Anna K. Smoot to write an
expression of some of my thoughts and feel-
ings in regard to my labors in this great work
in which we are engaged, I cheerfully respond,
trusting that I may have the spirit of God to
dictate what few words I may say. I know
[Column 2]
and feel there is a great responsibility resting
upon me in magnifying this office and calling.
But as it has been placed upon me by those
having authority it gives me confidence that if I
strive to do my duty trusting in the Lord for
guidance He will bless my humble efforts to im-
press the minds of the children with the princi-
ples of truth, and that I may be able to do so
is my greatest desire, and that it may be a
labor of love as well as duty, ever hoping
that I may sow some good seed in their hearts
that eventually may spring up and bear good
fruit in years to come. There is one thing
I desire to mention which I think is of great
importance, it is the feeling of indifference
manifested by some of the parents in not
sustaining these organizations; when they have
been instituted for the benefit it would be to
their children if they attended these associa-
tions as they should; some mothers may think
and say they cannot see any good resulting
from these meetings, I most earnestly testify
that there is. It may be small like "little
drops of water and little grains of sand" that
in time make the mighty ocean and the
pleasent land. And if my testimony
is not enough I might add that of many
of our faithful sisters that have labored long
and earnestly in striving to teach the children
of the Latter-day Saints. Now we desire that
the parents be co-workers with us and manifest
an interest that when calls are made upon
them fron time to time they may be prepared
to help carry out our programme. They are
the ones that are benefited the most. How
thankful I would be to-day if I had had these
privileges that our youth enjoy at the present
time of gaining such an experience. If they
will improve these many opportunities they
have in attending Primary, SundaySchool etc.
	I sometimes ask myself the question are
the parents taking as much pains to save their
own children by teaching them the principles
of the Gospel, as the Elders abroad are in con-
verting the unbelievers among the Gentiles.
Is it not possible right here in what we term
Zion (which should be the pure in heart) we
give too little time to teaching our children
the spiritual things, and allow ourselves and
them to become engrossed too much  in the
temporal affairs of every day life. If so, it is
time we aroused from our lethargy and try to
more fully realize the great responsibility that
rests upon us as parents and teachers. We
can read in the 68 section of the Doctrine and
Covenants that the Lord makes it a duty in-
cumbent upon parents to teach their children
the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the
son of the living God, baptism and the laying
on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost
when eight years old; and if they do not the
sins will be on the heads of the parents.
	Now is the time to form their character while
their minds are easily molded like clay in the
hands of the potter. And the impressions that
are made upon their tender minds now become
indelible if continued till they are firmly fixed
so that nothing will efface them. We want to
instil faith in their hearts, faith in the ordinances
of the Gospel that this principle may grow and
increase till it becomes a mighty power in our
midst.
	It being the first principle of religion, it
should be first in our teachings to have faith in
God and believe that He is the Father of our
spirits, and is ever present with us knows our
thoughts, nothing is kept hid from His All see-
[Column 3]
ing eye; and if we will seek Him in faith and
ask aright He will answer our prayers. Our
children are a precious heritage from our
Heavenly Father, they are given to us pure
and He will hold us responsible for the way
we treat this sacred trust. They are given us
to train for a higher existence, and if we neg-
lect our duty in this respect what shall we reap
but sorrow in our declining years. "As we
sow so shall we reap." Truer words are not
to be found in Holy writ let us teach the
children to be virtuous, honest, full of integrety
to the truth, and to shun the very appearance of
evil that they may grow up in the fear of the
Lord be faithful to their religion, and be able
to stand up boldly and defend its principles
in the face of all the world. I believe they
are those noble spirits that have been held in
reserve to come forth in this day for a wise and
special purpose, that they might have this
opportunity to prepare themselves for the com-
ing of our Lord and Savior. How necessary
it is that they should be taught and be made
to understand every principle that has been
revealed in this our day, through the revela-
tion of God to Joseph Smith, and we find in
those revelations that we are to seek for knowl-
edge from the best books, seek learning by
study and by faith, for we cannot be saved
in ignorance, and what ever principle of in-
telligence we attain to in this life will remain
with us in the morning of the resurrection;
what an incentive this should be for us to be
diligent in learning all that we can, that we
may reap good for our reward and thereby
lay up for ourselves treasures in Heaven where
neither moth, or rust doth corrupt. May this
be your happy lot is the humble and sincere
prayer of your Sister in the cause of truth.
						M. Daniels,
Pres. Primary Ass'n. First Ward Provo.


HEPHZIBAH.
				XVII.

	'Tis early morn and thro' the air there floats,
		Odors of pine woods rich and rare perfume;
	The birds are pouring forth their sweetest notes
		And fresh young buds are bursting into bloom.

	After Hepsie’s brief conversation with the
trustee, she thought it necessary in view of her
engagement to teach, to put on a more serious
air, and deport herself in a womanlyfashion;
just turned fifteen, still in short dresses, and
always among the rocks and brooks and orchards,
shadowy lanes and singing birds were her
chief attractions, but she took in the situation
and resolved to put off childish ways, and be-
gin a new page in her history. She examined
her slender wardrobe and reported to her
mother concerning her wearing apparel.
	"I have two or three French cambrics and
muslins that will be light and dainty for
summer wear, if the skirts can be lengthened
a trifle, and with new ribbons, laces and gloves
I can do very well for a few weeks," suggested
Hepsie, "and I shall have my own money soon
you know and can buy what I like."
	"That is all right my little daughter, but I've
been thinking over a much more serious
matter, and it puzzles me somewhat I must
confess."
	"What is it mother, can I help you is it
about going to Nauvoo because I am in no
hurry, I should like to try teaching nearer
home at first."


[column 1]
	"It is about the certificate from the minister,
you understand that although we are such
near neighbors and friends, he has never spoken
to me since the day you were baptized, he
does not consider Mormons upright and moral
you know."
	“And that is more than a year now, and
living next house but one; well he must give
me the certificate there is no reason why he
should not and if he refuses I’ll ask the Squire
his word is as good."
	“He hates Mormons just as much as the
minister does and his wife is far more bitter
than dear Mrs. M. in fact I do believe she
would have been a believer in our doctrines
but for his forbidding her to attend the meet-
ings;" said Mrs. H. in reply.
	There is no time to lose" said Hepsie I'll
go this very day, there is nothing like trying
I do not believe in failure." Mrs. H. knew
better than Hepsie how bitter the prejudice
was in the little village for she had felt it
more keenly, since the larger number of con-
verts, had loft for Nauvoo, and one obstacle
after another had come in her way to prevent
her selling out and going where she could be
among the saints and have congenial society.
	Hepsie carried out her intention; she hastened
immediately to the minister's cottage, and
Mrs. M. who was in the front yard among the
lilacs welcomed her most tenderly. "So glad
to see you Hepsie, you are back from school,
have you finished?" Before Hepsie could
answer she asked a half a dozen more questions
and invited her in, but Hepsie declined saying
she had so much to do, and had come over on
purpose to see the minister.  "Tell me first
said Mrs. M. eagerly how is your mother, for
I have the most profound respect for her and
admiration of her moral courage in maintaining
her position in the faith for which she has
made such sacrifices."
	Hepsie realized the truth of these words and
knew they came from the heart, with tears in
her eyes and thanking Mrs. M. for her sympathy
she followed the good lady to her husband's
study and was ushered into the august presence
of the Reverend man. "Miss Hathaway, Hepsie"
he said as he rose from his table to meet the
girl pale and trembling, "have you come back
repentant to ask advice?"
	"O, no, I have come on quite a different
matter, it is to ask for a certificate from you
of moral character, I am engaged to teach at
Beechwoods and shall need one."
	The minister was like one bewildered, "teach,"
said he, "you are only a child yourself and
much in need of being taught, you astonish
me, a young girl in short dresses and a Mormon
asking for a certificate to teach, you will not
be allowed to promulgate any of your Mormon,
doctrines in a New England school." "O, as
to that I know so little myself that would be 
quite impossible," replied Hepsie.
	It is the more fortunate for you, that you
know so little but I must consult with 'Squire
W. about the certificate I'm not sure it would be
the proper thing to do. I was in hopes you
would come home after a year's absence among
Christian people with a change of heart and
convert your mother from the errors into
which she has fallen and become a member of
the Church in which you might have such a
great and powerful influence, that needs the
help and support of just such refined and
educated young women." "All this time
poor Hepsie was trembling and shivering, not
speaking out as she would have done had
she not wanted the certificate. Her heart
was bursting with indignation, yet she must
not be in the least seemingly disrespectful,
lest she should lose the little item on paper
that was to be so much to her. Finally after
more pressing interrogatories, and assurances
from Mrs. M. that she would get the certificate
the next day, she began to be more self-
[column 2]
possessed, and turned to leave the study, when
the minister broke out anew in the most ex-
cited way, "how is it that your people have
taken away more than half of my congrega-
tion? Your mother is at the bottom of all
this, she is the strong pillar of Mormonism in
this place, and you could influence her per-
haps to give up this nonsense about going to
Nauvoo, and the village might become more
flourishing, as it was before those ranting
Mormon Elders came here in November two
years ago."
	Hepsie appreciated fully the embarrassment
of the situation, she could not retaliate, not
even defend her own mother; she saw that
Mrs. M. understood her difficulty and she
knew her to be such a strong minded thorughly
good woman, that it was some relief to think
she would be stoutly defended if she could
once getaway. She tried to say "good morn-
ing" in the midst of the minister's harangue,
but it was quite impossible.
	Mrs. M. put a stop to the scene at last by
saying, "Husband you can scarcely be aware
how you are wounding the feelings of this
dear child; she is not answerable for any of
the mistakes made by the Mormons and has
had nothing to do with their leaving to go
to Nauvoo. Its all folly to talk in that way, 
she came for a certificate and ought to have
it at once."
	By this time Hepsie was in tears, one great
sob after another had welled up until she could
no longer control her emotions.  Mrs. M. put
her arms around her tenderly and said "poor
child, never mind come with me, you shall
have the certificate now," and they left the
study together. Once out of the minister's
presence Hepsie ceased sobbing and Mrs. M.
leaving her alone returned to the study; five
minutes after she came in with the little slip
of white paper on which a few words were
written and signed by Edward Morton D. D.,
Mrs. M. handed the certificate to her and said
while entwining her in her arms, "you are a
brave girl and deserve success, you know how
to control yourself and that is a great thing
in a teacher; I shall be proud to hear you have
done well and I am sure you will."  Then
followed the usual good byes and "remember
me to your dear mother," and Hepsie flew
down the yard and out into the great wide
road. She could not go home until she re-
covered her composure, her mother must not
know what had transpired.  The fresh morn-
ing air soon cooled her heated brow and when
she came in to her mother's room shortly after,
no one would have guessed the struggle she had
gone through.  She held up the paper and
Mrs. H. inquired, "How did the minister re-
ceive you and how is his wife and family?
Did he demur at all because you were a Mor-
mon?"
	"Not exactly" replied the girl "he talked
about seeing the 'Squire first but Mrs. M. in
sisted on my not having to wait."
	"Very kind of her," replied the mother
"she is much superior to him in nobility of
character and in personal attainments; they
could never live on the salary he receives if
she were not always economizing and helping
in various ways."
	"I'm sorry for her and for all minister's
wives that I've ever seen, the husband gets
the honor and the wife contrives to manage
the house and does half the brain work; the
best half too; I hope if I ever marry it will
not be a minister," Hepsie retorted sharply.
	"I hope you'll marry a Mormon Elder and
devote your life and talents to the Latter-day
work," said Mrs, H. enthusiastically.
	"Wait until we go to Nauvoo mother, I
shall not marry until I'm twenty-one or more;
my guardian would not allow it you know, and
he'll stop my going to Nauvoo if he can; I
[column 3]
have never even hinted such a thing to him,
have you mother?"
	"No Hepsie, but I shall not brook any in-
ference in that matter."
	Here the conversation ended either mother
or daughter little realizing what lay before
them in the near future. Preparations were
hurriedly made for Hepsie and on Monday
morning, the open carriage came to convey her
to Beechwoods.
	Her heart was in a great flutter, but her
mother knew it not, outwardly she was cool
and dignified—and away she went to pass the
trying ordeal of a specific examination. She
had no idea what questions would be asked nor
who would be present. The little wagon drew
up in front of an old farm house, she recalled
in a moment as the residence of the trustee, the
front door opened and in a moment more she
was ushered into an old-fashioned square
parlor, where sat in state awaiting her Mr.
Merriam himself.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THREE SCORE AND TEN.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	According to previous arrangement a goodly
number of brethren and sisters met at the R.
S. Hall at 1 o'clock p.m., Feb. 25th, under
the auspices of the First Ward Relief Society,
for the purpose of surprising and showing
their esteem for their beloved President—
Sister R. W. Tyler, being the seventieth anni-
versary of her birth. President Jane Bickley
of the Second Ward went with her buggy to
Sister Tyler's home and desired to accompany
her to visit the sick, which request was cheer-
fully complied with. After visiting one sick
lady, they drove to the Hall where Sister
Tyler's family and friends awaited them. The
surprise of this aged mother was plainly de-
picted on her countenance, and she was quite
overcome with emotion at sight of so many
friends and associates; Brother J. Thompson
being requested to preside, the meeting was
called to order and her (Sister Tyler's) favorite
hymn was announced, "Up Awake ye De-
fenders of Zion." 	Prayer by Patriarch
Jonathan Crosby, singing "O God our Help."
Sister E. W. Hawkins in a neat, appropriate
speech, presented Sister Tyler with a hand-
some gift, a dress pattern of fine black cash-
mere as a token of esteem from her sisters and
co laborers. Individuals also presented her
with nice tokens. Sister Tyler responded in
brief, pathetic remarks—thanking all present
for their kindness and hoped to continue to
live in their esteem.
	The following committee viz:—Sisters H.
Baker, E. Jolly, R. Briggs, H. M. Edwards
and H. Stoney arranged an excellent pro-
gramme, consisting of speeches, songs, recita-
tions, etc., which was next in order. The
speakers briefly referred to Sister Tyler's asso-
ciation with the Church for fifty-eight years,
and her good labors in the Relief Society for
a score of years—also having been a member
of the first organization in Nauvoo. All
united in wishing her many happy returns of
the day. After these exercises a sumptuous
repast was indulged in by all present. Sister
Tyler was the recipient of a beautiful cake
made by Sister E. W. Hawkins—presented on
a nice glass cake stand—a gift from Sister J.
Bickley—also a cake with the year, name, and
age in candy letters (made by her daughter).
Both cakes were nicely frosted and adorned
with candy, mottoes, etc.
	Some of the excellent repast was conveyed
to the sick. After being together several
hours and having an enjoyable time, long to
be remembered by those present—a hymn was
sung, and benediction pronounced by Patriarch
D. Tyler, and all dispersed to their homes.
					A. M. Tanner, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LINES IN MEMORY OF SISTER M. J.
TANNER.
WHO DEPARTED THIS LIFE JANUARY 8, 1890,
PROVO CITY.
BY MRS. DEBORAH BILLINGS.

	My dear kind friends again we've met
		To reverence woman's sphere.
	Our hearts, with grief, are stricken,
		We mourn for one not here.

	Death with his ever stealthy tread
		Has laid our sister low,
	And like the withered Autumn flowers,
		She rests beneath the snow.

	In her, we placed a noble trust,
		In doing all things well.
	She held our greatest confidence
		None could, with her, excel.

	In friendship's bond, we did unite—
		Our quorum all complete,
	But hope, like a sweet-scented vase,
		Lies shattered at our feet.

	To her kind nature did impart
		A noble gift divine,
	To wield the pen in "Woman's Right"
		And elevate the mind.

	Her virtues we unite to praise,
		Her labors all approve, 
	Her steps were led in wisdom's ways,
		In charity and love.
	
	And now, since this has been our lot,
		To mourn our President,
	Let's not despair, but try to be
		With Providence  content.

	God's Wisdom, none can comprehend,
		Nor yet 'His Purpose' tell;
	We'll kiss the rod, our love to prove,
		He doeth all things well.


JOSEPH POLLARD.

			IN MEMORIAM.

	Seventy One and in all these years
		Can no spot of rust be found,
	To mingle now with the heartfelt tears
		That moistens this Sacred Mound,

	Where earth to earth and dust to dust;
		The Casket now may rest,
	That held a spirit all might trust,
		Now with the ransomed blest.

	His Monument Our House of God,
		Shows forth his wondrous power,
	To lead his people where he trod
		From rock-base up to tower.

	Our girls will miss a father's care
		Our boys his counsel wise,
	Aye, all will miss a shepherd rare
		Whose path led to the skies.

	He shrank not from the hardest task
		When duty marked the way;
	He never wore the traitor's mask,
		A brother to betray.

	Beside the weary bed of pain,
		He stood by day and night,
	Cheering the stricken ones again
		To faith and hope and might.

	Remember still his kindly voice,
		His warnings ne'er forget,
	And yet again we may rejoice
		That here on earth we met,

	A heart so true, a soul so brave,
		The tempter's shaft to dare;
	His every thought his flock to save,
		Their dangers too, to share.

	All honor to his sterling worth,
		No trembling shook his frame;
	With those who bore the noblest part
		Write Joseph Pollard's name.
									HOPE.


THE BETTER TIME TO COME.

	(Written by John W. Hutchinson, and sung by
him at the National-American Woman Suffrage
Convention, after Mrs. Stanton's address, Wash-
ington D. C. February, 1890.)

I may not be a prophet, but methinks I feel the time
When freedom's breath shall fan the cheek of all in every
	clime.
When labor shall be virtue and religion shall be truth.
And all earth's sons and daughters shall enjoy a trusting
	youth.

I may not be a prophet, yet is not the era near,
When the church shall cease to rule men through dogma's
	creed of fear,
When human life and nature's laws in harmony entwined
Shall be the base of better lives—the Christ of all man-
	kind.

I may not be a prophet, but the glorious time's at hand,
In which the nations shall combine, in one harmonious
	band.
That day will see one God, one church, one government on
	earth,
The long-expected golden age, the newer second birth.

I may not be a prophet, but the time will surely come
When through much tribulation we'll scourge the demon
	Rum.
The monster's trembling at the door—brothers, sisters,
	now unite,
And if we strike together we'll conquer in the fight.

I may not be a prophet, but the time is almost here
When the woman with the man shall stand, and take her
	proper sphere.
Restricted and oppressed she's been, through all the ages
	past,
Thank God, the star of hope shines clear—she will be free
	at last.


[Column 1]
SINCERITY.
	Sincerity is a quality we highly prize in
the circles of friendship; and as we learn that
we are made in the image of God, we readily
believe this to be one of His attributes, for He
says, those who worship Him must worship in
spirit and in truth.
	Can any one read the history of our Lord
and Savior without a feeling of love and ad-
miration enlivening every fiber of the soul.
This I call the genuine love of God, the effects
produced by the good spirit;  this spirit en-
larges the understanding and enlightens the
mind, with it we can comprehend, many of
our Savior's teachings which look cloudy or
dark before, and really feel a spirit of en-
thusiasm for the great and good work that
Jesus came to accomplish. And as far as we
get intelligence in this work the greater is our
joy.
	There is a spirit of enthusiasm prevailing
of late which I think is quite commendable;
especially when reading in the paper of the
Idaho test case, also the bill introduced by
Senator Stewart of Vermont desiring the
Mormons not only disfranchised, but also not
permitted to make their homes on public lands,
simply because we are Mormons.  And what
is a Mormon?  One whom the Lord has given
intelligence to prepare for His second advent
to the earth, by keeping more strictly all His
commandments.  We certainly could not be
prepared without doing this.
	Shall we then cower under misrepresenta-
tion, which is as much as to say we are stupid
and ignorant, low-lived and mean, which we
know we are not.  The principles we believe
and cherish are quite the opposite.  And now
since there must be an opposite in all things
which side of the question is the right side and
the one to cleave to and sustain?  Well let an
earnest and persevering zeal for right be ours,
in all sincerity of heart, for we must pay
strict heed to the laws of Jesus Christ if we
are worthy to be called by His name, in doing

[Column 2]
this we never fail only when we carelessly
make a mistake.  I look upon these rules as I
do upon a problem of Arithmetic, if we fail
to obtain the true result we find by looking
over the work that we did not add, or multi-
ply, or subtract correctly.
	Then when we see the mistake, we soon find
all is right, for the rule is a perfect one, and all
who will make themselves perfectly acquainted
with it are benefited by its theory; but we need
to be active and sincere in all our researches
in religion as also in science, for things done
at the halves are never well done, we will
surely make a mistake and have need to look
over and correct the same.
	I think I hear it said the Liberal party
are to be our rulers now.  Is it not humiliat-
ing?  Yes indeed it is.  But it must be our
fault, or we need more humility.  We can not
be true Latter-day Saints without this quality.
The Lord has said He resists the proud but He
gives grace to the humble.  If we would please
our Father we must not lose sight of His laws,
for He is angry with none excepting those
who will not acknowledge His hand in all
things.  Can we do this, it is a nice point to
arrive at.
	It is just forty years since I embraced the
principles of this gospel, and I do surely know
that the gifts and graces which characterized
the ancient Church have never failed, when we
are what we should be ourselves.  But St.
Paul said that "We are subject to vanity as
the sparks which fly upward."  Accordingly
we need great caution and care to keep a well
balanced mind and a sincere and devoted zeal
to the cause of truth, then our Father in
heaven can give us the light and intelligence
of His holy spirit which gives every thing its
proper value and all its proper place.
	This is indeed the true riches and also the
most needful for us to profess. 
							M. E. K.


A PERFECT HOME.

	The late Helen Hunt Jackson, writing of a
perfect home said: "The most perfect home I
ever saw was a little house into the sweet in-
cense of whose fires went no costly things. A
thousand dollars served as a year's living for
father, mother and three children. But the
mother was the creator of the home; her rela-
tions with the children were the most beautiful
I have ever seen; every inmate of the house
involuntarily looked into her face for the key-
note of the day, and it always rang clear.
From the rose, or clover leaf, which in spite of
her hard housework, she always found time to
put beside our plates at breakfast, down to the
story she had in hand to read in the evening
there was no intermission of her influence.
She has always been and will always be my
ideal of a mother, wife, and homemaker. If
to her quick brain, loving heart, and exquisite
face had been added the appliance of wealth
and enlargements of wide culture, here would
have been absolutely the ideal home.  As it
was, it was the best I have ever seen.—Plain
Talk.


The Law.—Miss E. E. Wright, of Scolin,
has just been admitted to the bar and is the first
woman lawyer in her district.—Miss Rebekah
E. Roberts has been admitted to practice in
the Orphan's court of Philadelphia. She is the
second woman lawyer admitted to the bar of 
that city.—Mrs. Martha Strickland, of Detroit, 
has recently won a case in the Supreme Court
of Michigan, which has been closely contested
the last two years. As often as defeated in the
lower court she applied to the Supreme court for
relief, and has won three successive victories,
the case finally terminating in her favor.
								Ex.


Woman's Exponent

Woman’s Exponent,
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
Salt Lake City, -	-	March 15, 1890.


"FROM KIRTLAND TO SALT LAKE 
CITY."

	The above is the title of a book recently pub-
lished at the Office of the Juvenile Instructor in
this city, the author is Brother James A. Little, a
nephew of the late Pres. Brigham Young. He has
very appropriately dedicated the book to Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff, the only living Apostle 
Pioneer. The work is embellished with cuts
descriptive of the subjects and places treated
upon.
	We have not yet had time to peruse the book
carefully, but have gone over it in a sort of
desultory way, reading paragraphs and parts of
chapters here and there, but even in this way have
found many interesting and important matters re-
corded, with which we were erstwhile familiar.
	We all know how apt one is to speak of matters
in a general way, forgeting dates and such other
definite particulars as help to recall other similar
occurrences, and in this respect furnishing dates,
etc., the book will be invaluable.  The travels
and journeyings of the Saints are told in a simple 
unpretentious style that make them all the more
eloquent and pathetic.
	The book is one that should be in every home
library as well as public ones, and is especially a
good work to send out to friends in the world as
it graphically describes the removals from place 
to place, and persecutions of the Saints, and how
in the midst of trials and difficulties, they have
been upheld by faith, and shows how a loving
Father has led them even into this promised land,
this refuge in the mountains.
	There is no danger of too much being written
of the early pioneers of the country, and in glanc-
ing over brother Little's book, we are very glad
to see he has made particular mention of the
second company of pioneers, that company being
composed of men women and children, about 600
wagons leaving Winter Quarters on the Missouri
river the June after the first pioneers had started
in April and arriving in the valley the last days of
September and first and second of October.
	These are the people who built the fort, who
fought the black crickets, and paved the way
through innumerable hardships and privations
for those who followed after.  Too much cannot
be said in praise of their heroism and sublime
faith.  There are many excellent lessons to be
learned from the careful perusal of this book of
the pilgrimage of the Saints, and every one who
reads it will be benefitted thereby.  The book
may be safely recommended to all as possessing
reliable information, valuable as containing a por-
tion of the history of the Saints. The book is
printed in clear readable type, on a good quality
of paper, and contains 260 pages divided into 30
chapters.  Prices, cloth bound $1.50, leather gilt
$2.00, extra gilt $2.50.


L. D. S. WOMENS' MEETING.
	The regular semi-monthly meeting of L. D. S.
Womens' Associations held in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms Feb. 15, 1890, was a very large
and interesting one. Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.
Commenced with singing, "Come, Come ye
Saints." Prayer by Sister E. Stevenson, singing
"O, my Father Thou that dwellest." Minutes of
former meeting read and accepted. Pres. Horne
expressed herself pleased to see so large an as-
sembly, hoped none of them were discouraged,
because of the recent election, wished we were
as a people as much united in religious matters
as we are in politics. Instead of being dis-
couraged our faith should be increased. We shall
have the victory in due time, though we may have
to suffer. We have crossed the desert plains and
come here to build up Zion and we shall do it, 
as the Prophets have predicted; I have heard
Joseph prophesy concerning these things. Read
the history of the Israelites; related in brief some
portions of their history bearing upon the times
in which we live. It is our duty to stand up
bravely in defense of our rights. Great calamities
are befalling the nations of the earth have 
fought against the truth. The Lord will fight our
battles and the nations will fear and tremble.
Sisters seek for the Spirit of God and all will be
well.
	Sisters E. B. Fletcher, E. W. Wilcox, Diana
Reid, J. C. Howe, S. Cumberland, E. Stevenson
and others each spoke a few minutes, touching
upon important subjects and bearing powerful
testimonies to the truth of the work in which we
are engaged.
	Pres. Horne made a few closing remarks en-
couraging all to persevere and remain firm and
steadfast. Singing "Wake O, wake the world
from sleeping," benediction by Sister M. Brown,
meeting adjourned for two weeks.


The first General Conference of the Y. L. M. I. 
A. will be held Friday evening April the 4th, in 
this City.
	
	We have on hand the minutes of Relief Society
Conferences of Salt Lake, Sanpete, Uintah, and
St. Joseph Stakes which we shall use according
to dates, also an account of a trip through Emery
Stake.

	The General Conference of the Church which 
will convene on the 4th of April next is looked
forward to with intense interest, in view of the re-
markable changes that have and are taking place
in the history of Utah.

	There will be a Convention of the Woman Suff-
rage Association of Utah Thursday, April 3, 1890,
in the Assembly Hall, to commence at 2 o'clock
p. m. It is particularly desired that every organi-
zation throughout the Territory be represented
by a delegate, if possible; and if not, by manu-
script. All interested in suffrage are cordially in-
vited to be present.
				SARAH M. KIMBALL, Pres.
				RACHEL EDWARDS, Sec.

	There will be a General Conference of the Re-
lief Society held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall
in this City Monday April 7, 1890. Meetings
commencing at 10 o'clock a. m. and 2 o'clock p. m.
the officers and members of the Relief Society
and all interested in its welfare and advancement
are cordially invited to attend. It is expected
that representatives will be present from each of
the Stake organizations and report at the meet-
ings. By order of the President,
						Zina D. H. Young.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE PETITION
	The W. S. A. of Utah sent the following peti-
to the Legislature now in session, which was, as
will be seen, read and referred at once to the
Committee on Judiciary; immediately following it
was a communication from the Governor of Utah
naming the Chancellor and Board of Regents, all
of them new, which was also referred to the
Judiciary.—Ed.
	The following petition was read:
	To His Excellency the Governor, and the 
Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah:
	We the undersigned, in behalf of the Woman
Suffrage Association of Utah, do respectfully
petition your Excellency and your honorable
body as follows: We call your attention to the
fact that within the past decade there has
been a marked advancement in the recognition
accorded to women in the intellectual world, giv-
ing hope that the last shadow of the dark ages is
fleeing before the daybreak of equal rights.
Colleges are opening their doors to woman, and
the learned professions freely welcome her to
their ranks.
	In the work of education she now exerts influ-
ence and authority; notably in New York City,
where she has performed valued labor as a com-
missioner on the metropolitan school board.
	In view of the unselfish interest shown by wo-
men in the cause of education, and that such in-
terest may be not only rewarded, but made more
useful, we earnestly request you to appoint two
representative women of Utah as Regents of the
Deseret University.
	We are satisfied that such appointment would
be creditable and helpful to that noble institution,
and we know that it would win the gratitude of
thousands of Utah's staunchest friends.
	We respectfully suggest the following as fit
persons for positions on the Board of Regents,
viz: Mrs. M. I. Horne and Mrs. Nellie Little.
					SARAH M. KIMBALL,
	President of Woman Suffrage Association of
Utah.


UTAH DELEGATES.
	The people of Utah who are interested in its 
true welfare and especially those who believe in 
woman suffrage and equal political rights will be
gratified to know that Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball
had an excellent opportunity afforded her as the 
official representative of the Utah W. S. A. to
make a report of the organized Association in this
Territory. The following is her speech as given
in the Woman's Tribune, Washington D. C.
March 9, 1890.—Ed.
				UTAH.
	Mrs. President and members of the 
Convention: The National Woman Suffrage
Association of Salt Lake City, Utah, held their
annual meeting for the election of officers for the
ensuing year on Saturday, January 11th 1890, at 
which time—
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball was elected president.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards, first vice-president.
	Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck, second vice-president.
	Mrs. Caroline E. Dye, third vice-president.
	Miss Rachel Edwards, secretary.
	Mrs. Julia C. Taylor, corresponding secretary.
	Miss Margie Dwyer, treasurer.
	Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie, chairman executive Committee.
	Our Association has three hundred paid up en-
rolled members, exclusive of sixteen branch or-
ganizations in other parts of the Territory. As
results of our meetings, we fully realize that edu-
cation, agitation and united effort are chief factors
in woman's political advancement. We are en-
deavoring to promote interest in the systematic
study of the science of government, and most
gratifying results have followed this course.


There are, in the various cities, towns and vil-
lages throughout the Territory, many able and de-
voted women who earnestly labor for the politi-
cal, moral, and intellectual advancement of wo-
man. Mrs. Mary J. Tanner, president of the
Utah County Branch, died on the 8th of January
last. In her our cause has lost an efficient officer
and a faithful friend. After having exercised the
elective franchise for seventeen years, we deeply feel
the degradation to which we have been subjected
in being deprived of a direct voice in the Gov-
ernment to which we are subject, and of being
relegated to the position of those who suffer under
the principle of “taxation without representation."
We have an institution in our Territory known as
the Deseret University, which admits male and
female students; the management of which, since
its organization, has been in the hands of a
Board of Regents composed entirely of men. We
have deemed it proper and right to have repre-
sentation on that board and, for that purpose, will
petition the Territorial Legislature, which is now
in session, to give us at least two women as mem-
bers of the Board of Regents. Experience has
taught us that a woman armed with the ballot is
endowed with more self-respect and commands
more respectful deference and considerate atten-
tion from men than she can ever claim under her
present servile conditions. With these thoughts
before us, we feel it incumbent upon us to renew
our endeavors to secure that right of suffrage to
which all women are entitled, and we shall not
cease to importune the powers that be, until the
political shackles are stricken from womankind.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RAMBLING THOUGHTS.
	To guard well all God-given gifts and blessings
is the duty of the Saints.  I often think are we on
the watch-tower or in the basement?  there is so
much at the present time to look out for. 
	We have been made partakers of the good
word and of the Spirit of God, each Saint being
baptized and receiving a knowledge for himself
or herself that the Holy Ghost bears witness that
the gifts and blessings which adorned the Church
in our Savior's day are again restored to the
earth, and have so much light that the Priests of
the earth say "Come let us blow out the candle of
the Lord that has been set to burn in these
mountains," and would light the true path of
peace and happiness.
	"By their works ye shall know them," what
have been the words and the works of the Saints?
O, all ye inhabitants of the earth cease to sin and
love God; He is so good and kind, merciful, and
long suffering, "therefore are we not consumed."
The Presidents of these United States one after
another look gravely on, take their oaths, and
their seats, to be just in administering the law in
this grand Republic which the Saints have ever
honored and never by oaths' or any other means
have sought to be anything except a sacred por-
tion of this great commonwealth.  We know God
has sent a true Prophet again to the earth, who
has left a record indelible, by staining the soil of
free America brought about through religious
persecution.  He gave good advice even to this
nation, in one instance he said "it would be best
to purchase the slaves and colonize them thus
saving life and treasure;" if we could turn back
the wheels of time the nation might make repairs,
but it is not possible now, and thus it will be again
in regard to the treatment of this people.
	We work for the dead and they are benefited
thereby, it being legally done according to the
order of lineage and of priesthood and no one is
hurt on the earth, but love and kindness is mani-
fested for all the living and the dead.
	Let me a grand-daughter of a Revolutionary
soldier speak to the Honorable President of the
nation and all its lawmakers in behalf of truth, 
how would it be received?  with indifference per

[Column 2]
haps scorn.  The time will come to these great
statesmen when they will wish they had dealt
differently with the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.  Come and look upon our
works with unbiased minds!
	This government would not have been left to
grasp the saints justly earned means, that would
have done much good used in its legitimate way, 
but the poor eagle had its political talons severed
years ago, and sent out to grasp every position of
trust in Utah, the Post Office among the first; the
talons have grown and finally the Edmund's law
raised the lever and with unconstitutional frauds
smote off the eagle's head, and all restraint is
gone.  Jury's only such in name, not one that
dare express a sentence kindly to this people can
be obtained.  Where is Justice?  Men are sent-
enced when arrested as one of the lawyers said,
"We would convict Jesus by our juries if He were
here," so they could, but our Savior though cruci-
fied by wicked men rose again, and as Mary and
Martha both were searching for Him, Jesus the
beloved son appeared to them and bade them go
and tell His disciples He had risen.  This was
spiritual and temporal, a risen Savior and mortal
women. 
	Though ex-Gov. West has said God has no
telegraph to earth now, while Lawyer Baskin
remarked, no man that believes in God is fit for
an American citizen; these are the kind of men
who would rob God of His right to rule the
elements.
	When I see such men set aside every principle
of truth and virtue, not recognizing this people,
and deliberately confiscate the rights of the gov-
erned by fraud,after confiscating Church property
through religious persecution set afloat by Priests
and political traitors, if the American eagle had
a head he would close his eyes and ears too,
could he look upon the state of things in Utah:
sound in spirit, true in integrity, brave in danger, 
good to all men and women, throughout the whole
world, such are this people.  How can men think 
to deceive God?  Can they not pause and con-
sider that these are sacred rights that have been 
sacrificed by this government?
	O, how sad would it be, if war again should
desolate our fair land America.  To all Christian 
sects the grand chain of rights is marred, but the
world says "How so you Mormons, Mormon
homes are so impure?  Just come and see, don't 
be cats-paws, or men and women who have
jaundice.  Did you ever see clubs thrown at a
tree with poor apples?
	Our homes are erected and created with pure
motives, a hereafter our guiding star.
	Love of virtue is characteristic of the Saints, 
prosperity has attended our labors, and purer,
brighter children I do not believe any community
can or has produced on earth than are born in
this Church; no slums of sin, no houses of infamy,
no disposition for destroying life, look truthfully
upon us; instead of a loathsome cancer or ulcer
as we have been called by leading men, even down 
to the most vile; we are a living pattern of good
order, loving, pure  homes, loyal citizens, indus-
trious, cleanly, never intruding upon our neigh-
bors, proclaiming to all men that Christ is again
coming to earth, not a babe but as a loving Father 
warning His children that He is the legal
sovereign of the earth, kind to all who will ac-
knowledge Him, merciful to those to whom no
law has been given, to them can be no transgres-
sion.  I know the past and the faithful integrity
of this Church since the year 1835, and what it
passed through; the present is a review, the
future rests with our Heavenly Father to mete
out and we know to those who endure it will be
glorious. 
	These are a few of my thoughts on this day the
4th, of March one of the national days of our
country when one's thoughts incline to consider
the position and workings of this great Republic 
in view of its momentous questions.
						Z. D. H. Young.


EDUCATION.
	Education is development, and its aim is the
harmonious action of all the powers, a cultivation
of the mind, the body, and the soul.
	A close adherence to these principles will make 
man complete in his sphere,—a God in embryo.
	Strictly speaking, education covers the whole
area of life, and is the sum total of man’s exist-
ence. Death is not its terminus, for when we
look beyond the grave, we there see him en-
throned, forming worlds and commanding chaos.
True education, then, places the sword of science
in the hand of man standing on the foundation of
pure religion.
	If this be true, we will not wonder at Prof.
Huxley's saying: “True science and true religion
are twin sisters, which if separated proves death  
to both.”—For says he, “Science prospers in the
same ratio as it is religious; and religion flourishes
in the exact proportion, to the scientific depth
and firmness of its basis."
	The educated man is not the scholar, the pugi-
list, nor the 'good man,' but he is a well balanced
combination of the three. He has a healthful
mind in a healthy body, and is in possession of a
pure heart. Other combinations, can not be
classified with the truly educated.
	There is one fact we must learn, and that is
that mental progress is due solely to mental labor,
just as physical development is due to exercise.
Our natural abilities are perfected by study as a
plant is by growth.
	The merchant might ask when can I study—
when a moment presents itself, for moments
make hours. Read a little, then reflect much, for
it is not what we read but what we retain, that
becomes of use to us. Let us each have an aim
in life and be sure that we reach it.
	Ask education what she has done for the hu-
man family, and she will answer,—have I not
tamed the Lightnings, and made the mighty ocean
a highway of travel and commerce? Who are
our wise men, Doctors, Lawyers, Judges, States-
men, etc. They are my children.
	Ask ignorance what she has to offer, and the
answer will be “tramps”—Do I not fill the
saloons, can you not see my off-spring crowding
on the street corners, and collecting at the least
sign of excitement? They are my children.
The profoundest sorrow known to man is not
brought upon us by the world, its malice and its
persecution, we can laugh at, and hurl defiance at
its injuries:—but the sorrow we bring upon our-
selves, is the heart’s sorrow. Let us then, make
the most of our time and spare ourselves vain re-
grets for wasted days for, “Of all the sad words
of tongue or pen, the saddest are these 'it might
have been."


THE WORLD’S CIVILIZATION AND
POLITICS.
	These two go hand in hand. Civilization as
some of our opponents interpret it, gives leniency
to wrong-doing and calls it right. But the
Scripture says, "Wo, unto them that put light
for darkness and darkness for light.”
	The fathers and mothers among Latter-day
Saints have ever been diligent in teaching their
children to walk in the paths of virtue, to be
honest, not to gamble and spend their time in
grog-shops, for these things lead to misery and
death; and for this cause, the men who have
been appointed by the Voice of the People, who
are in the majority have suppressed these
accursed nuisances; Until later years, those who
have been sent here from abroad have encouraged
these places, and now they are fully established
and they tell us that such places have done more
to win our youth over to their ungodly ways and
views than any thing else. Think you that many


of them are won over?  Heaven forbid!  there
may be a few weak-minded ones, but their fate
is a down-fall from the path of rectitude and,
right, when swerved or allured from heaven's
path which is straight and narrow.  Yet to be
firm and steadfast and hold out to the end, there
is a crown of glory laid up for such in the eternal
mansions of our great Redeemer.
	But if we would obtain salvation at the hands
of our Father, we are not free to sin; there is a
penalty attached to it that no one can escape.
"The wages of sin is death," and the way of the
transgressor is hard."  Peace and joy come from
doing right.  The world cannot give it nor take
it away.  Oh, that my warning voice could reach
those who have strayed from the fold of Christ.
The truth of the everlasting Gospel that you have
turned away from,—the ancient Saints laid down
their lives for, and counted all things but dross,
that they might obtain eternal life in the king-
dom of heaven, and they testified of what we
now enjoy, the fulness of the everlasting Gospel
that would be restored again in the last days."
That the kingdom would be set up, and all
nations would be gathered into it.  And men would
have to be called as was Aaron, that no man
could take this honor to himself."  The
Melchisedec and Aaronic priesthood is now con-
fered upon the Elders of the Church of Latter-
day Saints.  And they have the authority to
teach sound doctrine.  The same that Paul told
Titus to preach.
	Ch. II. 1. But speak thou the things which be-
come sound doctrine:
	2.  That the aged men be sober, grave, tem-
perate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience.
	3.  The aged women likewise, that they be in
behavior as becometh holiness, not false ac-
cusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good
things.
	4.  That they may teach the young women to be
sober, to love their husbands, to love their child-
ren.
	5.  To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good.
obedient to their own husbands, that the word of
God be not blasphemed.
	6.  Young men likewise exhort to be sober-
minded.
	Paul must have been a believer in hierarchy to
be teaching in sacred things.  And to think that
brother Paul dare to assert that in Abraham all
the nations of the earth should be blessed and he
a polygamist, had four wives.  It is rather doubt-
ful whether our law-makers at the highest court
at Washington and all others who have pro-
claimed so loud against it, will accept a blessing
from Abraham or have any desire to go to his
bosom, and less so, if his four wives are there;
he also had the gospel preached to him, lie must
have received it as he was a preacher of righteous-
ness.  There is quite a similarity, between
Abraham and the Latter-day Saints.
					MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 21st, 1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. OF UTAH.
	Minutes of the regular meeting of the W. S.
A. of Utah held March 10, 1890, in the Social
Hall.  Pres. Sarah M. Kimball in the chair.
Prayer by Mrs. Mary A. Freeze.  Mrs. E. S.
Richards then presented the petition which
had been prepared for His Excellency the
Governor and the Honorable Members of the
Legislature; in which the Association asks that
Mrs. Nellie Little and Mrs. M. I. Horne be-
come members of the Board of Regents of the
University of Deseret.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougall, one of the Delegates to
the National American Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation at Washington, reported a very favor-
able, successful, and profitable trip through-
out.  They represented 15 votes which stood


second to the highest vote present.  Said they re-
ceived every courtesy possible, and were treated
well by all.
	Pres. Kimball reiterated the former speaker's
remarks as well as adding that the decree of
God was that man and woman should be
equal.
	Thought they could over come what is
termed the principal objection to woman's vot-
ing by requiring a certain qualification in
order to vote; such as requesting every woman
to be able to read and write.
	Several interesting anecdotes were related.
	Dr. E. S. Barney next read a paper on the
subject of Suffrage.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards expressed herself as be-
ing encouraged in the cause.
	A vote of thanks was tendered the delega-
tion.  Meeting adjourned Sine die.
				RACHEL EDWARDS. Sec.


MY SUBJECT IS SUFFRAGE.
	[An article read at the Suffrage meeting
held in the Social Hall, Salt Lake City, on
Monday Feb. 10, 1890, by Dr. Elvira S.
Barney.]
	The definition of mankind is, "The human
race collectively, man and woman."  The
Sacred Book says, "They became one flesh."
The same book says, "Man is not without the
woman in Christ."  Woman is the counter-
part of man.  They each make the happy whole.
	No structure is complete without its parts.
The roof of a house is dependent upon its
supports, it covers the structure.  A founda-
tion is the beginning of the whole.
	Right when enjoyed gives tone to society,
and to the heart a welcome sound, and is as
music to a cultivated ear; this makes heaven;
and the opposite brings discord.
	It is not a rational thought, that will not
accord to our neighbor, the same right we ask
for ourselves.
	If we require lumps of ice, to assuage our
burning thirst, to cool our fevered lips, should
we deny another lying upon the same couch
like relief.
	If man has become crippled through unfore-
seen powers, and woman is strong, she should
use her powers to aid him on until he has
crossed the chasm.  Then, the case should be
reversed, and if he is strong, and she is physi-
cally weak, God made it so; and he should give
her aid, as liberal minds do.
	A noble man will never draw a line of de-
marcation between himself and his wife, for
she is his own choosing, and is his partner in
life, and the mother of his children, his com-
fort in night dreams, and the solace of his
cares.
	Suppose man, because he has the power, to
pluck a rose from the stem, or bush that gave
it birth, and from which it is nourished and
fed, should cast it upon the burning desert
sand, leaving it powerless to survive beneath
the rays of the scorching sun, and thus it
withers and dies.  Does this prove that Might
is Right?  No man need try to make himself
believe that mankind does not include woman;
for his existence proves the reverse; and
legally he has not been given absolute power
to deprive her of any universal right, Re-
ligiously, Politically, or Domestically.
	If her powers are small and puny, why fet-
ter the little she has?  Give her Suffrage,
Why?  That she may help modify existing
wrongs.
	Today are thousands of mothers of children,
widows or worse, wives of wicked, drunken,
debauched libertines, and if they are too in-
toxicated to stand, they lean upon their neigh-
bor while they can "Legally" cast their vote,
for similar man as themselves, as a ruler over
man and woman, for which act law does not

[Column 2]
dispute.  Why do I say similar?  Has not our
past experience proven it thus?  Did not we
after seventeen years of franchise, have it stolen
from us?  Question, Who, or what, caused it
thus?  It was men—dacity.  You may say
this is very strong language.  Yes so it is. But
if we cannot catch a thief, should we be cen-
sured for saying thief, when a value is taken
without remuneration?
	A very wise man once explained the virtue
of union, by taking some little sticks, separately
he broke them, but by tying a bundle of them
together, he showed they were not easily
broken.  In the past woman has been curtailed,
hence her powers have been weak, but her
numbers are increasing, and on the face of her
just measures she will soon show her strength.
	I have heard the word feminine used some-
times when the opposite sex desired to express
weakness.  If they will only read the cata-
logue of crimes today, they can see there,
chronicled more than weakness, a deranged,
misguided, besotted, muscular brain.  Should
I say feminine here?  No!  The application
here would be a disgrace to the word.
	The muscular portion of the race, the ma-
jority of them, are drifting rapidly into the
great vortex of crime.  It would be better that
they act the part of a woman awhile, and turn
the wash machine five or six hours, or carry
a twenty pound baby over a long road to
market and back, as mothers have done.  Ah
no! the babe would soon be too heavy for such
as they, and would be hurriedly thrown into
the mother's arms again, saying, "Take your
child and nourish it, and ascend the rugged
hill."  Who are the fathers of the race, if it
is only the mothers that should nourish and
carry the child?  Give her suffrage then, if she
must act the part of father, as well as be the
mother of men.
	Suppose we leave those barbarous ones, and
speak of our noble friends, those are they, that
defend, and always come to the aid, and help
carry the burdens and sorrows of woman.  We
are proud to say that we claim by descent,this
nobility in the race, a kindred tie from
Abraham.  It was pronounced upon him by
the Father of the universe, "that he should be
a father of a mighty nation, numerous as the
sands of the sea shore."  Mighty in what?
Numbers, excellence, valor, virtues, &c. Genesis
XVIII Chap. 18&19 vers. Also the Lord said,
"I know he will command his children after
him."  Hence, the virtue that exists today,
for which woman aided by man, is struggling
to protect, and she is becoming a great army
in the land under the name of Suffrage, and in
this group you'll find Abraham's blood cours-
ing through their veins.  Hence the great ap-
peal for right, and objections to wrong.  By
agitation, and great toil, woman's voice is be-
ing heard, and Suffrage is spreading beyond
our governmental areas; it is almost world-
wide.
	Suppose I predict, that it will not be long,
until the rulers of the nation, in order to extri-
cate themselves from their entanglements
through the rapid growth of dishonor, suffer-
ing, sin and crime;—(which is [-]e unto a
massive underbrush in a large piece of timbered
country; it is not only unsightly, but inter-
woven, matted together, and before the wood-
man's ax can be applied to the larger growth,
he finds he must clear it away.  He sets him-
self about it, but he soon finds he is lost.  His
head becomes bewildered and he cries for help.
He has waited too long and instead of apply-
ing the brakes to the powerful locomotive, he
has applied the fuel.  He now sees his mis-
take, and beholds his dilemma.  If disruption
should take place, then terrible the confusion;
and he is on the brink, and is momentarily
preserved by a hair's breadth space.)—Now
I say, suppose I predict that which was so
unpopular a short time before will be sought


for, and also an appeal will be made to Wo-
man, (as often is to her quick perceptive powers
in emergency) the Head Center of the Great
Woman's Suffrage Organization, including her
noble brothers, the question will be; “What
does Woman say?  Give us some of your wis-
dom?
	While reading the political matter of the
day, of different Territories, I became in-
terested in a report of the Committee, on
County and Municipal Government, in Wash-
ington Territory, Olympia, July 22nd, 1889.
Especially the following clause. “The Legis-
lature shall have no power to impose tax upon
counties, towns, municipalities, for local pur-
poses, such power is vested absolutely in
Local Authority.’' This suggested the fol-
lowing sentences, I am a woman, and deprived
of suffrage.  I have paid taxes about thirty
years, and I have often heard it expressed that
“taxation without representation is tyranny.”
I'll add to this and say.  It is a vexation,
a disgrace to the nation, bondage, a species of
slavery, a great incentive to rebellion.  On
our public buildings, on all public political
occasions, is hoisted and unfurled the stars
and stripes, as a representation of our Grand
Old Constitution.  Our martial music issues
forth strains of welcome to national holidays.
But it is sad, to think in the folds of that
majestic flag, is hidden a something that speaks
louder than the cannon’s roar, "Crippled
Liberty,” and in the swells of the martial
music I hear stifled moans, “Crippled Liberty.”
The Orator of the day proudly reads the
nation’s motto.  Life, Liberty, and the pur-
suit of Happiness, guaranteed under the Con-
stitution.  It is “Mistaken Liberty.” Hark!
What do we hear?  A double echo from the
flag accompanied by the sound of the drum.
Give Woman. Suffrage, give woman suffrage.
Read your mottoes, unfurl your flags; but we
will place upon our banner, the name of, and
give all honor to, our Father, the King of
Kings,woman’s friend.

	Ladies!  Do not pine and die on injured past,
	Ye should sue for woman's rights, from first to last,
	If ye will but work and wait, you then will see,
	Woman as well as man from tyrant’s laws are free.

	Ere long, she will help to hold the Center Staff,
	Unfurl the flag that will make the nations laugh;
	There in print "Woman Suffrage" in letters bold,
	Read her name “Queen with King," in the nations roll,

	With him, she has endured the scorching fires, 
	And kept her faithful beat through midnight hours;
	And mingled with the pebbles of the briny sea;
	In battle, has helped to make the nations free.

	Many things there are of which we are not yet sure
	But woman knows so well, that she can much endure,
	And the sweet whisperings are "Oh !  watch and wait,
	The pleasure of God, He never comes too late."

	If I was a poet, I'd make the air ring; 
	To woman I’d talk, and of her I would sing.
	To critics then I'll say if laurels you've won;
	I'll tell you once for all, I have just begun.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

		   MALAD STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	"The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Malad Stake was held at Port-
age Feb. 9th, 1890.  Pres. Lucinda Hoskins
presiding.  On the stand Coun.  Wm.  H.
Gibbs, Bishops of the different wards, Presi-
dents and Counselors of the different branches,
etc.  Meeting opened by singing “May we
who know the joyful sound.” Prayer was
offered by Brother J. D. Gibbs, singing
"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire.” Minutes
of last Conference read and approved.  Pres.
Lucinda Hoskins then addressed the meeting,


said, "we are living in a time that will try the
hearts of all; our greatest aim should be to
stand firm in the kingdom of God. The Relief
Society is doing a great work wherever it has
been organized, we should be diligent in at-
tending to all our duties."
	Sister A. Hall then spoke a short time bear-
ing testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
Bishops Jonah Evans, Enoch Harris, and
Thomas Davis made very instructive remarks
on several different subjects, encouraging the
sisters to live up to their privileges and stand
firm in the kingdom of God. Meeting ad-
journed until 2 p. m., singing "Beautiful
Home." Prayer by Bishop Enoch Harris.
	Afternoon services commenced by singing
"Guide us O Thou Great Jehovah." Prayer
by Brother Joseph Dudley. Singing "Come
let us prepare with one heart." Pres. Rose
Howell of Muddy Creek, Pres. Jane Harris of
Portage, Coun. Esther Lusk of Malad City,
Sister Philene Hall of Washakie, Sister Eliza-
beth Davis of Cherry Creek, Sister Elvira
Harrison of St. John, all gave in favorable re-
ports of their respective branches, expressed a
determination to go ahead in the great work of
the Relief Society, and bore a faithful testi-
mony to the work we are engaged in.
	Coun. Wm. H. Gibbs then addressed the
sisters, spoke of the necessity of storing grain.
"We should be diligent in attending our meet-
ings; the Relief Society is a great blessing, they
are doing a great work in visiting the poor
and administering to those that need their aid
and assistance," and gave much valuable in-
struction.
	Pres. Lucinda Hoskins made a few closing
remarks. Conference adjourned for three
months. Singing "Lord we come before Thee
now." Benediction was pronounced by Brother
Richard Davis.
			LUCINDA HOSKINS, Pres.
			ELIZA. A. HALL. Sec.
West Portage, March 4th, 1890.


[Column 1]

		﻿SCHOOLS OF MUSIC.
    We see the same extravagance of expression
in the school of poetry and prose literature in
France.  There the spirit of romanticism, con-
tending against the artificiality of classicism
took the form of positive revolution and
anarchy; and writers went to such extremes of
caprice, both literary and moral, that,  with a
few exceptions, such as Lamartine and Victor
Hugo, it became anything  but reformatory.
Even in Germany the literary curiosities and
eccentricities of Jean-Paul-Richter and E. T.
A. Hoffmann are almost too fantastically
romantic to be healthy.
    So among the romantic composers of music
there are too many whose extravagances  are
ridiculous and offensive; and whereas Schubert
often bordered on the realistic, as in "Erlkoenig"
and "The Village" (in "The Winter Journey").
his writings are always musical, while too
many imitators and  would be  innovators in
this school have only produced noise and
painful "effects."  Whatever these other com
posers may do, no one ever hears a  composi-
tion by Frantz Schubert without being benefit-
ed thereby.
    The tendency in composition during this
century, since the time of Beethoven and
Schubert, has constantly been toward the
romantic; growing more and more demonstra-
tive  and  extravagant,  until we have  now
reached what might be called a school of
realism.  But again this disposition in art is
constantly coincident with progress in every
direction, and seems to be the expression or
product of the "Spirit of the Times" already
mentioned. Naturally each new epoch has wants
corresponding to its position, customs, and the
state of its civilization.  We  are growing so
intensely practical that we can be no longer

[Column 2]

satisfied to have anything left of the dreamy,
speculative, or imaginative; but we must have
plain, straightforward, scientific facts, well de-
fined situations, and suggestions bearing on
the economy and practical side of every day
existence.
    Observe this tendency in the art of painting,
commencing with the Dutch school, whose artists
painted not only pictures of the real common-
place life about them, but, for fear  that  there
might be a gleam of ideality exhibited,  these
old fellows were rather wont to choose for their
subjects interiors, with all the disgusting details
and offensive minutiae of domestic life  among
the lower classes of that time.  Free  fights in
taprooms; men, women,  and  children,  mixed
up together in drunken brawls, and  the like.
Any one who remembers the Teniers, Browers
and Jan Steens, will not fail to appreciate their
realism. And this same tendency has extended
into  more  recent painting.  Even into  the
historical and religious art, so long  considered
purely idealistic, has this same spirit of realism
penetrated, guided by the spirit of science and
accurate research.  No more striking instances
of this are to be found than the genre paint-
ings of Knauss, Defregger, and their class.
    Then, in literature,  see what realism has
accomplished, or not accomplished, beginning
with Balzac, the father of the school with his
melancholy pictures  of  Parisian life  in  the
early part of the  present century, down to
Z[-]la, with his minute and detailed description,
in clear outlines and high coloring, of a bad
case of small-pox, which he gives us in that de-
lightful and spirituelle flight of the imagina-
tion, the romance "Nana."  But to return to
our romanticism; the father of romantic opera is
Von Weber, the composer of “Der Freischutz”
(the enchanted bullets).   In  his operas the
refined spirit of the school shows itself in its
brightest and most captivating form.  They
are masterpieces of imagination, weird and
ghostly, and produce the same effect on a
sensitive individual  as  will  Edgar  Allan
Poe's fantasies, say for instance, "The Story
of a Black Cat," when read under favorable
circumstances.  With Weber, no sooner does
one of those weird ideas present itself to his
mind than he yields himself to its influence,
body and soul, and paints  it  in  such  wild
fantastic colors that his audience cannot choose
but dream or shrink, or shudder, or be horri-
fied at his will.
    Mendelssohn, although in some respects a
romanticist, as, for  instance,  in  "The Mid-
summer Night's Dream," was an imitator and
a very successful one,  of the classic forms.
He, of all the modern composers, has made the
nearest approach to the old reformatory spirit
of religious composition in the great oratorios
"Saul" and "Elijah".
    Schumann is perhaps the best known light
in  the  purely  modern  development of  this
romanticism, and was during his life, its leader
and champion.  He revived the spirit of Richter
and  Hoffmann,  and  in  fact,  taking  their
writings as texts, he actually tried to portray in
music language the peculiar eccentricities of
these old rhapsodists.  He was both musician
and poet.  In  order to  understand  him one
must be "en rapport" with the spirit of the
poetry by such German romanticists as Richter,
Heine, and Schlegal.  And just as these poets
revealed endless depths  of feeling  in a few
lines, so does Schumann succeed in saying great
things, and leaving unutterable things to be
felt, in one of his short piano poems or songs.
Schumann is more available to  us, owing to
the fact that his most striking peculiarities
and  propensities toward romanticism show
themselves in his piano compositions.   Like
Schubert, he resorts to any technical means to
give a picture of his poetic fancies, and  these
are always strange beyond all description, but
beautiful and striking.   If it be true—what a


friend recently told me—that all musicians are
more or less insane, then Schumann's madness
is full of consistency and method. But he
died before middle age of morbid insanity,
his brain being unable to sustain the stress of
romanticism which his disposition and tempera-
ment brought to bear upon it.
	It is unnecessary to give any further ex-
amples of the romantic composers. There are
as many different genres in musical composi-
tion as there are styles of writers in the history
of fiction; gypsy, Spanish, and Norwegian
music; character music, like Gottschalk's negro
melodies, with their banjo and tambourine ac-
companiment represented on the piano; and,
 highest of all, Chopin's beautiful and refined
piano composition of the purest national charac-
ter (Polish.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Queen Victoria is anxious to establish a
censorship of the English press.

	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe is rapidly near-
ing life's close.

	There are eleven women included on the
school boards of six cities in Norway.
	
	Mrs. Frank Leslie will deliver a series of
twenty lectures in the principal Western cities
next fall.

	Clara Barton has investigated the suffering
in South Dakota, and says that there is urgent
need of immediate help.

	Pundita Ramabai, with ten other women
were delegates to the Fifth National Congress
of India.

	Fifty thousand women are reported as hav-
ing voted at the school elections recently held
in Kansas. Many women were elected on the
school board.

	Mrs. Ida A. Harper who is regarded as one
of the best women journalists in Indiana,
recently succeeded to the managing editorship
of the Terre Haute (Ind.) News.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It has pleased an allwise Providence to take from our
midst our dear Sister Caroline Anderson Folkman the be-
loved wife of C. O. Folkman, of Plain City, Weber Co.,
who departed this life Jan. 25th, 1890. Deceased was
born March. 17th, 1838, at Christianland, Norway. She
received the Gospel as taught by the Elders of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in her native land
when quite a young girl. Emigrated to Utah with her
parents, brothers and sisters and was married to Brother
C. O. Folkman in 1862. Sister Caroline was for years a
Teacher in the Relief Society and was very kind to the sick 
and poor in her district. She strove faithfully to sustain
her family while her husband was away on his several
missions to Scandinavia. She has also done a good work
for her departed relatives in the Temple at Logan. She
was the mother of eight children three of whom are living,
one son a young man and two little girls. Her demise is
severely lamented by her husband, children and friends.
She has suffered for years with disease of the stomach but
when at the Temple she was baptized for her health and
under the hands of the Elders she was healed immediately.
Her strength has been greatly taxed in the past few
months with much sickness in the family, her husband and
little daughter both down at the same time with fever. She
waited on them both night and day until she was worn out,
her heart became so weak, she was obliged to take to her
bed, and gradually sank to rest to await the resurrection
morn. 
								ALMIRA RAYMOND, Pres.
								M. A. W. SPIERS, Sec.
		TO HER TWO LITTLE DAUGHTERS,
			Dear little ones dry up your tears
				And look to God above,


For He will grant you needed strength
		To join the one you love.

	For she has loved you dearer far,
		Than all the world beside;
	Then strive dear children to obey
		Our Lord whate'er betide.

	That you may meet her in that land,
		Where all is peace and joy,
	Where all the Saints will be at rest,
		And nothing can annoy.
								M. A. W. S.
Plain City, March 7th, 1892.


[Column 1]
UNION PACIFIC 
THE OVERLAND ROUTE 
Tickets 
ON SALE 
TO ALL 
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH 
AT 
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J.V. PARKER,
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS 

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street 

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS 
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]	
$5000,00 In Prizes 
GIVEN AWAY 
BY THE 
SALT LAKE HERALD,
TO SUBSCRIBERS OF THE
SEMI-WEEKLY ISSUE.

	The Semi-Weekly Herald is now the largest, brightest 
and most enterprising paper published in Utah. It 
consists of 8 pages, and is shortly to be re-enlarged. The 
Herald publishes the most standard current stories by 
special arrangement with the authors; containing many 
illustrated features; has the exclusive rights to Bill
Nye's letters; maintains a regular telegraphic corres-
pondent in Washington, and receives weekly letters
from the celebrated correspondent Frank G. Carpenter. 
Special attention is paid to market reports and agri-
cultural news; and a prominent feature will be made of
religions news, the tabernacle services being regularly
reported, while prominent sermons of the leading 
church authorities are given in full. In politics, The
Herald stands as it has ever stood, the firm and un-
deviating champion of the rights of the people of Utah. 

	The Premium Distribution for 1890
Will be on a grander scale than ever before,
	FIFTEEN HUNDRED PRIZES.
	Aggreating in value over $5000.00,

Being distributed among all subscribers to the Semi-
Weekly early in April.

Prize No. 1 is an upright Fischer piano, worth 
	$500 cash.
Prize No. 2 is a thoroughbred Holstein bull,
	worth $200. 
Prize No. 3 is a Bain wagon, worth $175. 
Prize No. 4 is a lot in Garden City, worth $150.
Prize No. 5 is a yearling heifer, worth $125.
Prize No. 6 is a purse of $100 in gold, and in 
	the list are several hundred dollars in gold 
	in smaller purses, while included in the 
	1500 prizes are sewing machines, mowers,
	reapers, rifles, photos, steel engravings,
	encyclopedias, toilet sets, fruit trees, shade
	trees, dishes, stoves, books, etc.,

FIFTEEN HUNDRED IN ALL! 
Which will be distributed among all who 
subscribe for 
THE SEMI-WEEKLY HERALD.
Price $3.00 per year. 
Send for a descriptive catalogue free.
	Address
THE HERALD CO., Salt Lake.

		Officers:
	JOHN T. CAINE, President,
	HEBER J. GRANT, Vice-President.
	HORACE G. WHITNEY, Business Manager.
		DIRECTORS:
FRANCIS ARMSTRONG.		W. H. ROWE,
W. W. RITER,					S. P. TEASDEL,
JUNIUS F. WELLS,			HEBER M. WELLS,
RICHARD W. YOUNG,		E. U. WOOLLEY,
CHAS. S. BURTON,			JAS. SHARP,
		ELIAS A. SMITH.


Woman's Exponent.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 18 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1890			No. 21


CONTENTS.
	A Mind Picture,—M. A. M. Pratt.  Hephzibah.
Editorial Thoughts, From Manuscript Paper P.
A. Provo,—Sarah E. Cluff. Miscellaneous. An
Interesting Visit.— Josie E. Childs. Sister’s
Party at Beaver,—L. Jones. Notes and News.
R. S. Reports,—St. John’s—St. Joseph’s and
Salt Lake. Schools of Music,—Henry C. Post.
	EDITORIAL:—The Gospel at Home. Editorial
Notes. Woman’s Convention at Provo. L. D.
S. Womens’ Meeting. A Letter to an Aged
Sister in the Faith,—Mary Y. Corby.
	POETRY:—Spring’s Herald, E. T.  Over The
Hills,—L. M. Hewlings. Make Your Home
Beautiful,—Selected. Lines,—On the Death of
George Roy Miller,—L. M. Hewlings. Obituary
of Mrs. S. P. Jolley,—Jane Bailey.


SPRING’S HERALD.
This morning the Medlarks were singing;
Their welcome notes sweet promise bringing;
And our hearts were thrilled with their gladsome song;
For the time we forgot all sorrow and wrong, 
While their happy notes were ringing.

The winter has been so long and so drear;
With many a heart-ache and many a tear.
For shadows have fallen o'er many a home—	
And many dear ones have been laid in the tomb
Since the last Spring-time of the year.

Oh bonny bird! Should you lose your nest?
Or be left by those you love the best?
Should you feel the sting of injustice and wrong,
Would you still ring out your gladdening song?
Making us feel so blest.

Or, are you so sinless, so free from guile
That you can be happy all the while ?
Or, being pure have you perfect trust,
Knowing through all that God is just
And content in His care to rest?
									E. T.
March 16th 1890.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
		OVER THE HILLS.
Over the hills to a land far away,
	Far away from all sorrowing gloom,
From blight and disease, from mortal decay,
	To a spring-time of immortal bloom.
Over the hills, tired soul speed thy flight,
	To that glorious land of the blest,
Where day endeth not in darkness of night,
	Dangers never, intrude to molest.
Hunger and thirst are unknown in that land,
	Want cannot enter, sighing is o'er,
No cruel wrecks strew its glittering strands,
	Storm-waves beat not, nor loud billows roar.
Over the valley, the heights rise above,
	O, soul fear not the swift river's flow !
Over darkness shines ever His love,
	Bright'ning and cheering from depths below.
Over the hills in that endless domain
	There is a clear shining, crystal sea,
The blind receive sight, the halt and the main'd,
	Are made whole, and are evermore free.
Over the hills, from the Poor House, of earth,
	Into mansions of eternal rest,
Transported, renewed, in immortal birth
	And the sanctified realms of the blest.
Over the hills are father's and mother's,
	Whose absence, in dread sorrow was mourned,
Sisters, brothers, true-hearted lovers,
	Saved for aye, in a glorified home.


Shrink not from the vale, the hills are in view,
	Trust and believe; pass under the rod,
Grace shall be given thy strength to renew
	Over the hills, are the "Gardens of God."
							L. M. HEWLINGS.
Atchison Kan.


[Column 1]
		    A MIND PICTURE.
	As I commenced the journey of life, I saw
two roads, one led off to the right, the other to
the left. These roads met at the beginning
but as you advanced on them, they widened
and the farther you went on either of them
the more distant you were from the other.  So
distant your eye could not discern the opposite
one. As I looked where the two roads met,
there stood guides. The one on the right
was dressed in white apparel, his countenance
beamed with love and good will, he spoke to
the few that looked and were inclined to take
the right path, he smiled and in tones of sweet
accent he said to them fellow travelers pass on.
All this time at the left a dark figure stood
waving his wand for them to come his way.
Beyond where he stood looked dark and dreary
and they took no notice. I looked again to
see if any headed this dark one and the path
he stood on. The vision of my mind was
opened and I saw a great number of people
standing in the narrow passage where the
roads met. The guide in white raiment was
describing to them the great blessings, the
many joys, the happiness aud peace, and
eternal rest they would find as they traveled be-
yond to the right. Said he, pointing his
finger “that is the straight and narrow path
that leads to life eternal. Those who take
the first steps on this path and do not turn
back need never retrace them. There is a
tree growing by the road side, watered by
clear crystal streams of water that flow from
a heavenly fountain, that is called the tree of
life, and you can eat of the fruit and live for-
ever. As you walk steadily on the way, the
light of the holy spirit enlightens the path
whose brilliancy never becomes dim, and by
its light you walk on to eternal day."
	Some few seemed to doubt his word, they
stood and listened and were convinced and
passed on to the right. Then I saw multi-
tudes giving heed to the dark figure and press-
ing on the dark and misty broad road. Their
countenances bespoke a strong will and de-
termination not to heed the voice of the guide
clothed in white. Then he raised his voice so
that all could hear and in clear decisive tones
said, “if you take that dark and broad path to
the left you will soon get discouraged,there are
artificial lights on the way but dark passages
that have not a glimmer of light; the road, is
rough and rocky, thorns, thistles and briers
grow by the way, stagnant pools of water that
are not fit to drink you find there, you become
thirsty care-worn and you see no hope nor
any way to escape besetting evils or sudden
death.” I listened as they traveled on this
road and heard voices in the distant darkness
exclaiming, "Oh! why was I born and fated
to be thus perplexed, I see nothing but sorrow
and disappointment, I was born to misery and
woe.  Why could not I have been predesti-
nated to have peace and happiness, joy and
contentment, I have it not in this dark and
dreary world.” They murmured on, became
[Column 2]
more foolish, betook themselves to folly and
vice. Silence, was echoed in the ditance, as
Justice stood with a balance in his hand to
weigh the actions of men, said he, “the agency
of mankind is theirs and this makes them
responsible for their acts, he who instructed
you to take the right hand road you heeded
not, was it not your own fault when it was
placed within your reach, to choose good or
evil; you followed the dark guide through the
broad road that leads to destruction and gave
no heed to the guide on whose breast plate
was written Truth." Then I heard cries of
distress, weeping and wailing. Mercy stood
forth in their midst with outstretched arms to
lead the erring ones back to the right path,
but those who had gone on before them could
not be overtaken.
						M. A. M. PRATT.


HEPHZIBAH.
XVIII.
	The little schoolhouse shelter’d' neath a hill,
		And troops of children playing rouud the door; 
	A morn in June serene, and calm, and still:
		Sweet picture in fond mem’ry evermore.
	Hephzibah Hathaway went through the ex-
amination as she always did that sort of thing
with outward composure though her  heart
beat wildly and she fancied Mr. M. must hear
it; she trembled a little when he asked her to
write a line or two; that he might judge of
her penmanship and he added “anything you
like Miss Hathaway.” She recalled a copy given
her at school, that had made quite an impres-
sion upon her at the time, and she wrote with-
out a moment’s hesitation, “A man may smile
and smile and yet be a villain,” and handed
the paper to Mr. M. who smiled shrewdly as he
said, “why did you write that?” “It was the
first thing I thought of isn’t it correctly quot-
ed?” “Yes and it’s a true saying and one
all pretty girls should remember.” “I shall
never forget that copy” said Hepsie, “Nor the
lesson it teaches?” added the gentleman, “For
that I don’t know;” “I trust you will never
have a practical lesson on the subject” replied
the grave and scholarly man, and forthwith
proceeded without comment to write out the
certificate. All this time a tumult was going
on in Hepsie’s heart and head, for the quiet
demeanor of Mr. M. throughout the interview
left her in doubt as to the result. He moved
towards her and as she rose to meet him, he
handed the official paper, and said “My child
you are the youngest applicant for the situa-
tion of a teacher I have ever examined; but
I have no hesitation in saying you are quali-
fied for the position, and your courage is ex-
traordinary for one of your years.”
	Hepsie felt she was not so brave as Mr. M.
imagined, for she dare not look at the certifi-
cate until she was out of sight of the house
where she had undergone such a mental strain.
	A few minutes drive brought her to the gate of
a similar old farm house to the one she had
just left; spacious and embowered in shrubbery,
with great elm trees outside that reminded
her of those at her dear old grandfather’s and
the past came back to her with vivid force.
A very prim elderly lady came out to meet
her, with such a sweet face and a motherly
welcome which made her completely at ease.
“Poor child” she said “how delicate you do
look to come here to teach the rough country


boys and girls, many of them bigger than you,
and likely older." Mrs. Pearce meantime led
the way in through the open door and hall and
showed her the great, square room with the white
muslin curtains and a snowy counterpane on
the comfortable looking bed so homelike, but,
Hepsie paused on the threshold a moment and
gazed on the sanded floor—her detestation, it
always set her teeth on edge, the good lady
did not observe it, then she saw the fire-place
filled with fresh green boughs' and knowing
she would be expected to say something falter-
ingly said "how nice and fresh everything is, I
like an East room" "Yes" said the good lady
"Mr. Beamen told us you were a dainty
little piece and not used to farm folks like us,
and that you objected to boarding round, and 
he wanted us to watch over you, and see that
no “Mormons” came around here; for my part
I dont know nothin about Mormons or what
they,re like.” Hepsie wondered what she ought
to say but silence seemed the only way to avoid
questioning, and she manifested no interest
whatever, though her thoughts were busy with
conjectures as to what it all meant. Was she
then to be watched like a prisoner? she could 
not comprehend it. 
	She inquired the way to the schoolhouse
and Mrs P. offered to go with her. "I'll go 
down the hill and show you the way, the
children's waitin for you with great bunches
of roses and youngsters this long time."
	Hepsie was relieved when Mrs. P. “pinted
out” the little red schoolhouse and left her to
her own thoughts. The children flocked
around their new teacher with their sweet
"good mornings," and Hepsie entered upon
her new duties with a determination that what-
ever difficulties she might have to encounter,
she would persevere.
	Day after day she pursued her vocation,
and weary and exhausted with her toil to
which she was so unaccustomed, after return-
ing home she would throw herself down upon
the bed and weep, the only outlet she had for
nervousness and pent-up emotions. After rest-
ing a few moments she would wander away
into the beautiful meadows that adjoined the
grounds a part of the "Pearce Farm." The
good old people scarcely knew what to think
of her, "such fancies" the old lady would say
“even wanted me to take the sand off the floor
could’nt stand it, and as for victuals no mat-
ter what we have she only eats like a bird."
Such were some of the comments made to the
neighbors, part of which always reached Miss
Hathaway.
	It was a lonely place the families were
scattered there was no society for Hepsie, and
naturally enough she sauntered about in search
of wild flowers, and the songs of many birds
was the only music. Even on Sunday it was
five miles to the nearest meetinghouse, and
Hepsie did not care to hear the orthodox
minister after having heard the "Mormon
Elders." It was all so tame there was nothing
edifying or elevating in it. She prefered to 
sit in her own room and read, or write and to
take long walks alone; and Farmer Pearce and
his wife were not sectarians made no profess-
ion of religion, and never attended any place
of worship.
	It may well be imagined that a temperament
like Hepsie's could not long endure this mono-
tony, a reaction was bound to follow, she was
restless, teaching children their A. B. C’s or
Arithmetic, Grammar, Geography, Reading,
Writing, History and Composition, was not
enough to satisfy an ambition like Hepsie's.
She longed for something more, she had been
used to the companionship of others her equals
and her superiors, her sisters, her mother. Mrs.
Grovsenor and her former teachers had been
an incentive to her, and now she realized how 
much this association of intelligent people had
enriched her life; three months of drudgery, 
[Column 2]
she felt would be so long, how could she en-
dure it, yet she enjoyed the roses, and pinks,
and peonies and even the southern wood in the 
front yard, and the children brought her fresh
wild flowers every day, and the robins sang at
her windows every morning early. Those
were not the days of trains and daily mails,
and Hepsie did not even have the opportunity
of going home on Saturday; in fact there was
really no conveyance, yet she was only ten
miles away. She had never been allowed to
read novels, and all her ideas of love were very
crude, but for want of suitable employment for
the mind, or perhaps a presentiment of the
future, Hephzibah allowed her thoughts to
drift away into the realms of fancy and center
upon love, the girl actually needed some stimu-
lus for a brain like hers, that she could not
find in a country schoolhouse, and its being a
romantic spot, and the time of roses and of 
love she allowed her imagination to anticipate
the coming of a lover. At any rate he came.
It was much like a presentiment. The fields
were gay with lilies and daisies—buttercups
and cowslips besprinkled the meadows. The
groves were tuneful with the songs of birds all
day long and in the midsummer nights, the
whippoorwill and other night-birds made
melody. Fate held out open arms to respond
to the unconscious aspirations of the little
maiden, and while the roses were yet in bloom
and the hay lay fresh in the meadows, she met
him, whom she recognized intuitively to be
connected with her destiny. ’Twas strange,
'twas wonderful aud it was unavoidable. It
came about in such a queer way that poor un-
sophisticated confused Hephzibah could not tell
whether to be glad or sorry, whether it was true
love or only romance, no girl it seemed to her
had ever been wooed in such a fashion.
	Returning from school one hot, sultry
summer's day Farmer Pearce introduced to her
a young man "just from abroad" he said. In
shaking hands with him a peculiar emotion
such as the girl had never before experienced
thrilled through her like an electric shock, or a
warning, or presentiment, and to herself silently
she said "that man has something to do with
my future destiny, my fate."
	Had she avoided him, as she felt inclined to 
do, much deep sorrow might have been spared
her, but who knows if out of this crucible she
was not tested and prepared to enter upon a
higher and grander life-work. The young
people just introduced found many subjects of 
conversation equally interesting to both, and
they talked late into the night. The farmer
and his wife sat and listened as if enchanted.
The door was open toward the grove and the
night-birds sang their clearest, highest notes,
with occasionally a minor key a mournful
sound that seemed to Hephzibah like the note
of sadness mingled with the deepest joy;
Harold the stranger who was both poetical and 
musical in his nature involuntarily repeated
those exquisite lines of Byron’s which so many
lovers have quoted since,

	"It is the hour when from the boughs
	    The nightingale's high note is heard;
	It is the hour when lover's vows
	    Seem sweet in every whispered word."

	This was the first meeting of the young people
but it was most auspicious for Harold fell
desperately in love and did not hesitate to ask
when he could see Miss Hathaway again,before
they parted that midsummer night.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.
[MANUSCRIPT PAPER P. A. PROVO.]
	As I have been called upon by your presi-
dent to edit the first paper of this kind a feel-
ing of diffidence comes over me, and I feel to
ask the prayers and confidence of my sisters,


and the dear children, that I may be inspired
to read the true sentiments, of my dear sisters
in the spirit in which they were written, for
we know that the letter is dead unless inspired
by the spirit of God.
	When we reflect upon the strange surround-
ings in which we as a people are placed, we
can readily see that it is necessaey to be alive
to our duties, and not neglect a moment in
which we can improve our minds, and gain
more faith in our Heavenly Father, for what
occupation upon this earth is more pleasing to
him; is it not to bring souls unto Him? Then
can there be any labor more pleasant for a
daughter of Zion, than to train these beautiful
children, to remain pure and true, and to be
ever walking in the fear of God. I think not.
Sometimes we hear the Christian say that his
constant companion is his Holy Bible.  This
is well, but here we have children whose spirits
have come from that great God in whose image
they have been created, their souls are pure
their minds are free from deceit, therefore
should any one desire more interesting society
than that of children; they will ennoble our
souls, enlarge our hearts, and aid us in be-
coming perfect like unto the Gods.
	When reading the pride that some people
take in the different employment by which
they are trying, to excel their neighbor, and
become perfect, they will work night and day
and will not leave their work for the weather
to spoil, or the work of another hand to soil,
but toil on till their aim is attained. Do we
as Latterday Saints take such care and pride
with our children this sacred trust? Should we
leave our children one moment, without know-
ing their surroundings are pure. How can a
true parent enjoy any pursuit in this life, with-
out knowing his children to be fortified against
the sins which are imbibed by evil habits. Our
children are our eternal blessings. All other
earthly treasures may crumble to dust; but our
children’s souls are immortal, they are ours, if
we do our duty towards them and God.
						Sarah E. Cluff.


MISCELLANEOUS. 
	There are two freedoms—the false, where
man is free to do what he likes; the true,
where man is free to do what he ought.—
Kingsley.
	If you could once make up your mind
never to undertake more work of any sort
than you can carry on calmly, quietly without
hurry or flurry, and the instant you feel
yourself growing nervous, would stop and
take breath; you would find this simple,
common sense rule doing for you what no
prayers or tears ever could ever accomplish.
Elizabeth Prentiss.
	That part of life which we ordinarily under-
stand by the word conversation is an indulgence
to the sociable part of our make,  and should
incline us to bring our proportions of good will
or good humor among the friends we meet
with, and not to trouble them with relations
which must of necessity oblige them to a real
or feigned affliction. Cares, distresses, diseases,
uneasiness, and dislikes of our own are by no
means to be obtruded upon our friends. If
we would consider how little of this vicisitudes
of motion and rest, which we call life, is spent
with satisfaction, we should be more tender of
our friends than to bring them little sorrows
which do not belong to them. There is no real
life but cheerful life; therefore valetudinarians
should be sworn, before they enter into
company, not to say a word of themselves until
the meeting breaks up.—Spectatsor.


Eleven women are on the school boards of
ix cities in Norway.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MAKE YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL.

Make your home beautiful, bring to it flowers,
	Plant them around you to bud and to bloom;
Let them give light to your loneliest hours—
	Let them bring light to enliven your gloom;
If you can do so, oh, make it an Eden,
	Of beauty and gladness almost divine;
'Twill teach you for that home you are needing,
	The earth robed in beauty beyond this dark time.

Make home a hive, where all beautiful feelings
	Cluster like bees and their honey-dew bring;
Make it a temple of holy revealings,
	And love its bright angel with "shadowing wing."
Then shall it be, when afar on life's billows,
	Wherever your tempest-tossed children are flung.
They will long for the shades of the home weeping wil-
	lows,
And sing the sweet song which their mother had sung.
									—Selected.


LINES.
[ON THE DEATH OF GEORGE ROY MILLER]
	Inscribed to the bereaved parents by L. M.
Hewlings.
	We thought the precious one our own,
		Nor deemed the gift to us but lent;
	That thus we must be left to mourn,
		In grief to murmur and lament,
	The absence of our darling boy.
		Whose presence gave such glad delight,—
	Now, all is changed since our dear Roy,
		Has vanished from our yearning sight.

	We loved him as a human child,
		Given to us to keep and hold,
	Nor dreamed he must from earth depart,—
		Restored unto the upper fold.
	Vainly we watch and wait to greet
		Smiles that would make sad hearts rejoice,
	For the sound of pattering feet
		And the merry musical voice.
	We weep above the precious form,
		Laid in the bosom of the earth,
	We cannot trace the spirit born,
		Into the realms of heavenly birth.

	Look up sad mourners thro' your tears,
		Your Roy, has gone from sin and blight,
	Without the weight of weary years,
		He lives! an angel in God's sight.


[Column 1]
﻿AN INTERESTING VISIT.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I take this opportunity of informing you,
and our numerous readers, of the welfare and
general feeling of your sisters; and a synopsis
of our visit to the several wards of this Co.,
(Emery), hoping it may be interesting to you.
	As a new year is before us, and wishing to
make a good start in filling the requirements
made of us, and help others with words of
cheer, we left our homes Wednesday Jan. the
15th, traveling north by sleigh, the weather
was cold and clear, but thanks to our driver
who knew just how to make ladies comfortable,
(and here let me add in a Woman's Rights
man) we had an enjoyable ride, reaching
Huntington in time for supper, intending to
hold meeting there that night; but on account
of our notice not reaching its destination (a
case that frequently occurs), and as there was
to be a party that evening, of course we post-
poned our meeting. We decided to go on to
Price the next morning and hold a meeting at
that place, and meet with the sisters of Hunt-
ington on our return. We spent a very nice
evening at Sister Pulsipher’s, making prepara-
tions for the coming trip and hoping the morn
would be like the preceding one, According
to your faith so it shall be for,
[Column 2]

	“See! the night wears away and cheerful morn
	All sweet and fresh, spreads from the rosy east,
	Fair nature seems revived, and e'en my heart
	Sits light and jocund at the day's return."

	After a hasty breakfast we begin loading
ourselves with wraps, and when once again
ensconced in our sleigh our photo's if taken
would compare very favorable with the natives
of Lapland, the only thing lacking, we had
horses instead of reindeers, but we were com-
fortable and that was all that was needed.
Those who have traveled the road from Hunt-
ington to Price need no description of it,and I
do not think the writer would be able to give you
an intelligent description, for with her, locality
is at a very low ebb. After traveling over hill
and dale and occasionally a deep "wash" I at
last had the courage to ask if we were not near
our destination, imagine my surprise when I 
was met by the astonishing reply that we were
only half way, but as the longest lane has a 
turn, and as the sun was bidding the earth
adieu for the day we arrived at our destina-
tion. We found the sisters anxious to do all
that was required of them, and were met by a 
warm reception.
	Our return trip was some what tiresome but
we felt that we were on a mission of exhortation
and mercy,and although the weather was such as
to dampen the ardor under any other circum-
stances we enjoyed ourselves admirably; after
returning home we continued our trip south-
ward as far as Emery, (formerly known as the
Muddy) there we assisted in effecting the re-
organization of the Relief Society of that
place. In visiting among the sisters we im-
proved the opportunity of agitating the suff-
rage cause, and insisting upon all to become
acquainted with its great aim, also to patronize
the EXPONENT, and keep pace with the times.
	It takes courage to live, and if we are be-
hind both temporally and spiritually it makes
the struggle so much harder, but God is on
our side and if we do not attain to the rights
He intended and that the Constitution of this
Great Republic guaranteed we should enjoy,
we know that all the enemy can do will be
for the perfecting of Zion. Let us then draw
nearer together doing good, speaking an en-
couraging word to all who stand in need, and 
make for ourselves a record, helping to further
the purposes of our Father who sent us, and 
who holds the destiny of man in His hand.
And further more let me add, successs to the 
EXPONENT, may it enter many homes and
have power to allay prejudice, and show the
“Mormon” women in their true light to the
fair-minded women of the Nation, and if there
are any rights we do not enjoy, our husbands
feel it as keenly as we, for they believe in 
woman's advancement, and had they the power
the women of Utah would have the right of
franchise. Sisters let us rally to with renewed
energy, and pray that the sweet spirit of peace
may be in the Relief Society throughout all
the land, and do the good that our Father in-
tended. Wishing you all a year of peace and
happiness, I am yours in love.
					JOSIE E. CHILDS.
	Orangeville March 3rd 1890.


SISTER'S PARTY AT BEAVER.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Some of the sisters and a few of the brethren,
of this city,met in the Relief Society hall to
welcome our beloved and respected president,
Sister Lucinda Howd back in our midst once
more.
	She had been absent for several months
visiting her daughters on the Sevier and the
"surprise" was tendered as a slight token of
the respect and esteem in which she is held
by the community. The hall was beautifully
decorated with evergreens and pictures. On


the west wall was the word WELCOME in ever-
green letters arranged in a semicircle beneath
which hung the picture of the late Jane
Neyman first president of the R. S. in this
place.
	The presents were a beautiful ready made
dress and a splendid, large photograph album. 
Three long tables were spread with the good
things of the earth to which about eighty per-
sons did ample justice.
	The rest of the afternoon was taken up by a 
very enjoyable programme consisting of songs,
speeches, and recitations. The entertainment, 
which was a grand success, was a complete
"surprise" to Sister Howd and will long be
remembered by all of us. At the close a hearty
vote of thanks was tendered to the committee
who had contributed so much to the pleasure
of all present.
	Sister Howd was a member of the R. S.
organized by Joseph Smith the prophet, and
was in the first company that followed the
pioneers to the Valley. She was the third
president of the R. S. of this place and has
been our Stake President for ten years.
	Faithful and true to every duty that devolves
upon her, may she live to a green, old age,
and may we prove worthy successors to follow,
in her footsteps and emulate the example she
has always set before us.
	E. J. Bennett Stake Coun.
	L. Jones Stake Sec. Relief Society.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton has an article
on the divorce question in the current number
of the Arena.
	A bill giving school suffrage to women
been favorably reported in the Iowa House of
Representatives.			
	The Duchess of Albany, widow of Prince
Leopold, has just received her diploma as a
hospital nurse, after taking the regular course
and standing the usual examination.
	WHAT a sad commentary on the boasted 
chivalry of men was the dying statement of
Mrs. Grace C. Henderson. Three months
search for honest work—plenty of dishonorable
opportunities—then despair and suicide.
	The Women’s Exchange of San Francisco,
Cal., have created a building fund of $10,000
by which they propose to erect a building for
the work of the Exchange, and for a Reading,
Lecture and Waiting Room for women and
their interests.
	Seventy-four woman suffrage petitions have
been sent in to the Massachusetts Legislature
this year, signed by 2,908 women and 1,603
men; in all 4,511 citizens of the State over
twenty-one years of age, and residing in fifty-
three cities and towns.
	An interesting feature in the Jewish Messen-
ger, of March 7, is a symposium on the train-
ing of women, in which a number of thought-
ful American Jewesses take part. They plead
for the broadest and most thorough culture—
religious, intellectual and physical.
	STATES which desire a representation of
women on the World’s Fair Commission
should immediately, by organizations and by
individuals, petition the President to so appoint
Chicago, which promised such generous recog-
nition to women, should now speak with no un-
certain sound. From Wyoming, the Dakotas
and Kansas all such acts of chivalry and jus-
tice are expected, and any state would honor
its history by demanding that one of its commis-
ioners should be a women.
									Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.	
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	APRIL 1, 1890.


THE GOSPEL AT HOME.
	The city at the present time is thronged with
people, tourists in quest of curiosities, and infor-
mation, speculators in pursuit of gain and the
variety of kinds and sorts of people that make
up a great part of the multitude that throng the
streets and by-ways, and make one feel that this
is no longer the model city of the Saints, built in
the valleys of the mountains for them only, but
that all nations are flocking thereunto, in fulfill-
ment of prophecy, which is perfectly familiar to
those who study the Scriptures, but is sometimes
not remembered when one is absorbed in daily
duties. Does not the Bible say Zion shall be es-
tablished in the tops of the mountains and all
nations shall flow unto her? And yet some of us
complain when it begins to come to pass.
	During the last few weeks especially many
hundreds of visitors have come to Salt Lake and
have driven round in a carriage or wandered at
will here and there, and many have found their
way into the Office of the EXPONENT, and with
or without introduction have sought to open up
conversation on the subject of Utah, her politics,
the late election, the condition of the people and
the future prospects. Generally they are very
ignorant upon the matters they are so anxious to
discuss, although occasionally some are better
iuformed as relates to the settlement of these
valleys and the thrift and industry of the people
if not in regard to their religion.
	Many are quite unacquainted with the laws of
1882 and 1887 that have caused such a difference
in the circumstances of this people, and are sur-
prised when informed of facts connected with
what has been done in cases that have come be-
fore the courts and the decisions that have been
given. It is indeed true that intelligent people
of these United States even, taken as a whole
know comparatively little of Mormonism its
origin and history, and the Gospel which this
people have embraced, and for which they have
left their homes and possessions, and wandered
into the wilderness where they hoped to find that
peace and security that had been denied to them
within the limits of civilization.
	It may well be said this people have a history,
and as is often remarked a peculiar history; they
have been denominated a modern Israel and the
name is an appropriate and significant one. The
people of the earth are assuredly flocking to Zion;
they come singly and in large parties, and they
inquire concerning this and that, and there is a
good opportunity to give information on Gospel
subjects.  Everything pertaining to what is called
“Mormonism,” is more and more talked of day
by day, and surely this people have need of wis-
dom to meet all reasonable questions, and give
comprehensive answers in brief,to those who have
only a few minutes time in passing through, that


a good impression may be made, for truth is al-
ways strong; and if possible scatter a little of the
seed of the Gospel, praying that it may fall on
good ground. Thus a small portion of missionary
work may be done here at home as well as
abroad if we take this view of the matter. Men
who are now gone from our midst have
prophesied as the writer is well aware that the
highly educated people of the world should come
to the Saints for knowledge concerning this peo-
ple, and those who occupy high positions of
honor among the nations of the world, and this is
coming to pass, and there will be more of this
in the future.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The World's Fair, of 1892 will take place in the
United States to commemorate the discovery of
America. That the part taken by woman in this
discovery shall be more widely known and pro-
perly appreciated, the Queen Isabella Association
was duly incorporated on the 17th day of August,
1889, in accordance with the laws of the State of
Illinois. In pursuance of this object the Associa-
tion will erect a statue of Isabella of Castile, to
be unveiled at the Fair, and in recognition of
woman’s success in art, have engaged Harriet
Hosmer, the renowned Sculptor, to execute the
work. The Association will also erect the
Isabella Pavilion, in which will be a department
for the exposition of articles commemorative of
Isabella and the discovery of America; a repre-
sentation of the Spanish Court in the time of
Isabella and Ferdinand; and extensive Social
and Business Headquarters for the members of
the Association; thus will be furnished to the
women of all nations special opportunities for re-
ceiving one another socially, and for holding
Conferences on the Industrial and Social prob-
lems of the day, while each Trade, Occupation
and Profession represented in the membership of
the Association will hold one or more conferences
in the Congress Hall of the Pavilion. Every
facility for obtaining information necessary to the
comfort and convenience of visiting members will
be afforded during the fair.
	We have received by courtesy of the publishers
the Double Easter number of the Youth's Com-
panion, Boston, Mass. The writer remembers
with what pleasure when a little girl she received
regularly the Youth's Companion, when child-
ren's papers were very rare in the land. The
Youth's Companion was a very different affair to
what it is at present, but it cannot be more gladly
welcome now with its elaborate illustrations
than it was at that period in its simple form.
Such poetry and such stories "we girls" thought
them the best that could be written. This year's
Easter number is very appropriately embellished
outside with long stems of Easter lilies,and hand-
some pictures adorn the inside pages suited to
the stories and the occasion. The poems are
pure and chaste in style, and descriptive of Easter
subjects as are also the stories. The number is
beautiful in sentiment throughout as well as in
appearance. It is one of the journals of the day
that can be put into the hands of children with
safety. Its writers are among the very best, and
they aim at the cultivation of moral and intel-
lectual purity. "Numbered With Thy Saints,"
by Mary Tappan Wright. "One of the Squire's
Morning's," Laura E. Cushman. "Bim Hazlitt's
Luck," Sophie Swett. "Edith's Easter Offer-
ing," Ada Carleton; all deserve special mention,
and there are many other excellent articles. The
proprietors of the paper deserve great credit for
making the Companion so entertaining for the
Easter holidays.
	Through the courtesy of Dr. John R. Park we
have before us the "Report of the Chancellor of

[Column 2]

the University of Deseret," to the Governor and
Legislative Assembly of Utah. It is in pamphlet
form and contains 40 pages of matter, well ar-
ranged under appropriate headings and sufficiently
minute in detail to satisfy the most exacting. It
contains the reports of the Principals of the
various departments beginning with the Chan-
cellor's letter, the President himself gives a
succinct statement of the institution under the
following headings—Buildings,—Grounds,— De-
partment of Science, Literature and the Arts,—
Normal Department,—Preparatory Department,
—Music,—Art,—Deaf Mute Department,—Mines,
—Mechanic Arts,—Law,-—Library,— Museum,—
Apparatus, etc.— To summarize the financial
needs of the University the Dr. gives approxi-
mate estimates of the funds required. The Nor-
mal Department is definitely reported by its Prin-
cipal Wm. M. Stewart. Preparatory in the same
manner by J. H. Paul. Music Evan Stephens.
Art G. M. Ottinger. Mechanical and Architec-
tual drawing, Wm. Ward. Library Marcus E.
Jones, Librarian. Museum, Marcus E. Jones,
Curator. Custodian and Registrar, D. R. Allen.
Then follows a report of the number of students
for the last half of the Academic year 1887-1888
the year 1888-'89 and the first half of the year
1889-'90, together with the number in each branch
of study. Then the Deaf Mute Department is
specifically reported by the Principal Frank W.
Metcalf. It is a very interesting report as it re-
lates to a subject that every where must receive
special attention, and requires the best thoughts
of the people as well as the best methods of in-
struction,to bring it to the highest attainment pos-
sible and in harmony with other institutions. The
Secretary's Report including salaries etc., closes
the pamphlet. Great credit is due to the founders
of the Deseret University who labored under
such difficulties to establish it, and who helped to
carry it forward when the burden was a heavy
one. That it has been instrumental in a great de-
gree of educating the young people of the Terri-
tory all who are acquainted with facts regarding
the matter know full well. It is the ardent hope
of the writer, that the Deseret University may re-
ceive such substantial aid as will make it still
more helpful to the Territory, and reach the
height of excellence that its original founders an-
ticipated in the beginning of its history.


WOMAN’S CONVENTION AT PROVO.

	The Woman Suffrage Association of Utah Co.,
met in special session on Saturday March 1, at
10 a. m., to elect another President in conse-
quence of the decease of Mrs. M. J. Tanner late
President. Mrs. Electa Bullock First Vice Presi-
dent, in the chair. After singing and prayer be-
ing offered by the Chaplain Mrs. M. Daniels, re-
ports from the vice presidents of the several
towns in the county were heard, and were very
satisfactory indeed, each of the representatives
not only speaking well of the work done, but
proving themselves capable of magnifying the
position assigned to them. We have not space
to enter into detail but feel assured that Utah
County has some very able speakers, who have a
knowledge and appreciation of the subject and
know how to lay it before the public.
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates resigned her position as
Secretary, and was nominated and unanimously
sustained as President of the W. S. A. Utah Co.
Mrs. Rebecca Doolan was appointed Secretary to
fill vacancy caused by Mrs. Gates resignation.
Some other business of minor importance was
transacted and Mrs. E. B. Wells gave some
special instruction and the convention adjourned
until 2 p.m. closing exercises,singing; and prayer
by the Chaplain.
	Afternoon session convened Mrs. Bullock still
occupying the chair. After the prayer &c., Mrs.


Lizzie Gillespie rend red in excellent voice and
style “The Star Spangled Banner.” Mrs. Lucy
B. Young spoke on the question of woman’s
rights, and hoped the day would speedily come
when all women including the women of Utah
should enjoy the elective franchise.
	Miss Mabel Thurman recited “Brave Jennie
McNeil,” in an easy and natural manner, and in
pleasing voice.
	Mrs. Caroline B. Pratt then read an address
written by the President Mrs. Tanner just prior
to her demise, which we give below in full.
	Grant Allen in the Fortnightly Review gives
a very pungent article on the woman question.
	He says “if any species or race deserves a con.
tinued existence, then above all other things it is
necessary that the species or race should go on
reproducing itself. Can any person possessing
the slightest claim to intelligent reasoning dispute
that fact. It is a fact above all facts most notably
established. He goes on to review the condi-
tions under which the human race must keep up
its numbers or become extinct, he counts the
children each woman must have in order to keep
the population at normal increase.”
	We are willing to go farther and recognize
God’s first law. When He placed Adam and Eve
on this planet He did not say to them “Now that
I have placed you here I wish you to keep up the
race, and not let the species run out; but He said
"Go forth, multiply, and replenish the earth and
subdue it.” This grand earth was before them to
replenish, that is to fill up and subdue. Here Is
work for man as well as woman. If woman must
replenish, man must subdue and their work was
given them side by side. It could not be sepa-
rated in the natural order of things. Nature has
prepared woman for the burden of maternity, and
man to subdue the earth and make it fruitful for
the support of her and her offspring.
	If things have got somewhat turned, whose
fault is it? Not woman alone, certainly. He
should be a little more lucid on that point and tell
us what it takes to de-feminize a woman. In
countries where she takes her place in the harvest
field or is yoked with the oxen to pull the plow she
is de-feminized? No doubt you will find here
those performing the functions of wife and mother
as well, and she is still not considered out of place
in helping to subdue the earth, but did she rise
up and demand her emancipation, asking for a
voice in the government where she might make
laws that weuld forbid her being yoked with the
beasts of burden, would that de-feminize her?
	Would it weaken the attention of thinking wo-
men from the true problem of their sex to fix it
on side issues of comparative unimportance? Can 
a woman not perceive the true aim of her sex
and pursue also the intellectual capacity her sex
is capable of attaining. He says that in raising
a few children every woman must use up ten or
twelve of the best years of her life. Now I would
say that for twenty or twenty-five of the best
years of a woman’s life she is capable under prop-
er conditions of bearing children. During that
twenty or twenty five years when her womanhood
is most complete and attractive is she capable of
no intellectual advancement? Must she exercise
no other function but the maternal one, and is re-
production the only attribute of the maternal
function? I would assert that it is not, that ma-
ternity demands the highest state of physical and
intellectual cultivation.”
	The above article was merely commenced,when
the writer was taken ill. Had she lived to finish
the article, she would no doubt have met all the
arguments brought forth by the gentleman re-
ferred to.
	Miss Dottie Smoot, sang “The Maid of the
Mill,” in a very happy manner, and in beautiful
voice.
	Prof. Karl G. Maeser addressed the audience
in a most pleasing way, taking the philosophical

[column 2]
view of the subject, thought it would require
great attention by thinking people to come to a
correct solution of the phenomenon. Woman
possessed noble traits of character and it is ex-
pected of her to refine, elevate and assist in re-
deeming man by her influence. The great men of
different ages trace their success back to the
mother’s influence, teaching and training. The
mother’s home duties must not be sacrificed even
to gain the highest attainments. The true
destiny of woman is to be an adviser, without this
safeguard man would be led astray, upon the
good influence and character of woman society
rests in safety. Such conditions cannot be taken
away in safety from any nation. Whenever there
is a great cause at stake and woman takes part in
it, her influence will be felt either for good or
evil.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was the next speaker, re-
ferred to the time when women held the elective
franchise in Utah and the educational effect it
produced, thought it right and proper that woman
should stand politically equal with man, gave her
views in regard to co-education and urged the
ladies to study the principles of government
thoroughly, that they might be prepared for the
practical use of the ballot with all the responsibil-
ity it implied when woman suffrage would be
given to the nation.
	Hon. A. O. Smoot gave an interesting account
of the passage of the Bill in the Legislature of
Utah giving suffrage to women. He had the
honor of being a champion of the bill, regretted
to say there was some opposition but it was
finally overcome, through the influence of such
men as his fellow members of the Legislature, the
Hon. Geo. A. Smith and the Hon. Daniel H.
Wells and himself.
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates the President of the Asso-
ciation made a few remarks, expressed her appre-
ciation of the honor conferred upon her, alluded
to the position as a mission and felt she would
need the assistance of women and their husbands
in carrying out the methods of educational work
in the direction designed by the organization viz:
the study of municipal, territorial and state gov-
ernments. The topic to be discussed next meet-
ing by the several delegates was “Should women
exercise the elective franchise?” Adjourned sub-
ject to the call of the President. Singing, bene-
diction by Mrs. M. A. Gaddie.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


L. D. S. WOMENS' MEETING.

	The regular semi monthly meeting in the 14th
Ward Hall was held March I.  Mrs. M. I. Horne
presiding.  After the usual exercises including
reading of minutes, Pres. Horne invited Mrs. M.
A. Hyde to address the congregation; she spoke
upon the character of the times in which we are
living, the powerful influences working among
this people, the erection of Temples and great
work for the dead, alluded to prophecy and
urged the sisters to cultivate charity and every
good gift.
	Counselor E. Howard, spoke upon union,
watchfulness, the necessity of prayer and other
subjects of much interest.
	Dr. Pratt dwelt upon the cultivation of our
faculties, the exercise of charity and patience,
liked to hear Sister Hyde speak of her experience
at Nauvoo; thought we should not speak of each
other's faults but help one another and in this we
would be blest.
	Pres. Horne spoke a short time, said ours is
the Gospel of peace, we are stooping to conquer.
and must stand still and see the salvation of God.
Soon the Gospel will be taken from the Gentiles
and given to the Jews, then we shall see a nation
born in a day.  This people have been persecuted
ever since the Church was organized. Joseph
was weary of his life but his enemies had no


power over him until his mission was filled; she
said “I had the strongest testimony of this work
when I first shook hands with the Prophet Joseph
it thrilled me so that I shall not easily forget it.
Pres. Horne then presented the retiring secretary
Miss Smaley with a writing desk, donated by
the sisters in recognition of her services. Miss
Smaley thanked the sisters for their kindness in
a few well chosen words.
	Singing, "Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing.”
Benediction by Sister Peirson, adjourned for four
weeks as the Sisters Conference intervened.
					VILATE C. YOUNG, Sec.


A LETTER TO AN AGED SISTER IN
			THE FAITH.

DEAR SISTER:
	You ask me what I think of Isaiah 46—4th,
well, I think that to you and I, it is one of the
most precious promises contained in God’s word.
In this passage the Lord gives us positive proof
that it is not only the young, the energetic or
those who can accomplish the most (He is all
that such can need) but He knows that when we
begin to feel the weight of years, when our energy
flags and our spirits sink and we wonder how it
will be with us when we get too infirm to manage
for ourselves, when “the years draw nigh that we
shall say—I have no pleasure in them”—“when
the almond tree shall flourish and the grass-
hopper shall be a burden,” when the “Silver
cord is ready to be loosed and the golden bowl
broken,” He knows that then, we need special
help and special encouragement and therefore
He says—“Even to old age I am He;” what
does He mean by that, but that He is the same
God that He always has been? From before the
foundation of the world He has chosen us to
come upon this earth in these latter days to per-
form the work He has assigned us, and from the
time we drew our first breath-He has watched
over us and provided for us, and He is an un-
changeable God—He does not mean that we
shall be left to ourselves just when we most need
His help, but He says—“Even to your old age I
am He”—the same God,  "the same yesterday, to
day and forever.”
	But notwithstanding these words of encourage-
ment, our faith is sometimes ready to fail and we
have to cry out with Peter “Lord save me.” And
then He comes to us with these precious words
of promise, “Even to hoary hairs will I carry
you.” Oh what condescension on the part of our
Heavenly Father to promise us that when we can-
not go by ourselves, He will “carry” us. And as
though He would reason with us in our weakness
He says, “I have made, and I will bear;” as much
as to say—Do you think that I have made you
and sent you upon this earth and provided for
you and watched over you all these years for no
other purpose than for you to end your days in
despair? No, your soul is precious in my sight
and I cannot afford that one made in my image
and has faithfully served me shall be cast away;
and He further assures us by placing a double
emphasis upon the promise and He again declares
“I will even carry and deliver you.”
	Now dear sister can you imagine anything
more encouraging, more condescending on the
part of our Heavenly Father? We know how
tenderly an earthly parent will carry the helpless
infant, or the sick child who through suffering has
not sufficient strength left to walk alone, and the
tenderness of our Heavenly Father far exceeds
that of an earthly parent. We who have lived
the allotted time for man upon this earth, know
what it is to have our sensitive feelings wounded
by the thoughtlessness of the young, the giddy
and the gay, who are so apt to think the aged of
but little consequence, and we are often driven to
the footstool of our Father to ask Him for


patience to bear all we meet with in our path
through life.  And when we go to Him weary of
the world and everything in it, does He spurn us
from His presence? No, He does not.  Does
He tell us to come at a more convenient season?
No, but He rather says—Let your heart be strong
my child—“Fear not I am with thee, I will
strengthen thee.” ‘ Wait thou only upon God.” And
when your strength utterly fails, “I will carry you
and deliver you.”
	Well dear sister, old age has to bear with much
that is painful, but I question whether those who
are grasping after the world and its doubtful satis-
faction, can know one tenth of the blessedness of
those hidden lives that are quietly but sincerely
serving God and who will at last be “brought
home as a shock of corn fully ripe,” to the
heavenly garner.
	We are, as you say, very imperfect, neverthe-
less let us keep fast hold of the “Rod of Iron”
which leads to the “Tree of Life,” and then shall
we be able to lay claim to the blessings promised
to the faithful.
	Let our prayer be “Now also when I am old
and gray headed, O, God forsake me not."  We
are safe in His hands for this God is our God
for ever and ever, He will be our guide even
unto death.”  There is light beyond.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
						MARY Y. CORBY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

ST. JOHN'S STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of the St.
John's Stake held at St. Johns Mar. 7, 1890.
On the stand were Apostles J. H. Smith and
F. M. Lyman, the Stake Presidency, the Presi-
dent of the branches of the Relief Society of
the Stake and one Counselor. Pres. E L. S.
Udall announced the hymn and the congrega-
tion sang, "We thank Thee O, God for a
Prophet." After prayer was offered and
another hymn sung Pres E. L. S. Udall made
some opening remarks expressing gratitude for
the privilege of meeting in conference again,
but regretted not having an opportunity of
visiting the branches in all the wards since our
last conference, and referred briefly to the
great amount of sickness in this part of the
Lord's vineyard during the past few months.
	Reports were read by the Secretary, officers
of the Central Board and Stake presented and
unanimously sustained.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman spoke at considerable
length instructing the Saints on a variety of
subjects among which were, that the Pres. of
the Stake should see that there is a way pro-
vided whereby the presidency of the R. S. can
visit each local Society in the Stake. For
what purpose the Relief Society was organi-
zed. The word of wisdom was earnestly ad-
vocated as a means of promoting health and
happiness also of lengthening life. Speaking
of labor he said: "man and woman should
avoid overwork and heavy lifting but the man
who earns his bread by the sweat of his brow
is the happiest of all men and the woman who
performs the labor God designed for her is the
happiest of all women.
	Apostle J. H. Smith in his remarks said:
"the object of life is to learn to live. We hope
to live eternally therefore we should seek to
make our lives as happy as possible and diffuse
happiness among our associates. Some seem
to be continually miserable and wish to make
every one around them the same. In the be-
ginning God ordained that man should earn
his bread by the sweat of his brow. He un-
derstood that labor was essential to happiness.
It the mind is not engaged with the responsi-
bilities of life the effect is disastrous, man will
become vicious. "The idle brain is the devil's
workshop." In the early days of this Church

[Column 2]

there was a law that the idler should be dealt
with so there should be none idle among the
people. The more man is permitted to waste
his time the greater amount of evil will be in
his heart, and God designed that we should
shun the vices of the world that we may have
long life and be useful.
	Conference adjourned for six months. Con-
gregation sang, "The spirit of God like a fire
is burning." Benediction by Pres. D. K.
Udall.
		MARY E. B. FARR, Sec.

ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	Minutes of a Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of St. Joseph Stake, which con-
vened at Pima, Sunday, Feb. 23rd 1890, at 10
a. m. Pres. Wilmerth East presiding.
	Stake Pres. C. Layton and Coun. Wm.
Johnson were present. Meeting opened by
singing, "Lord we come before Thee now."
Prayer offered by Bishop Joseph Cluff of
Central Ward. Singing "Let Zion in her
beauty rise." Pres. East made a few opening
remarks expressing her pleasure in meeting in
Relief Society Conference. Was sorry to report
so much sickness in the ward, and encouraged
the sisters in attending to the sick that none
might suffer.
	Minutes of the previous conference were
read and approved, after which Coun. Mary
L. Ransom spoke a short time on the duties of
the sisters in caring for the sick. Knew from
personal observation that our aged and worthy
leader Elizabeth Burns, in connection with
her Counselors, had labored diligently, when
not detained at home with sickness in their
own families, to relieve the wants of those
afflicted. Sister Ransom's greatest mission
was in properly clothing the dead and prepar-
ing them to be laid away.
	Pres. Layton said: "I am thankful for the
favorable circumstances by which we are sur-
rounded. Although the attendance is small I
feel there is a reasonable excuse." Believed
the sisters had done their duty in caring for
the sick, and should there be any censure
upon them let it be spedily removed; and God
will continue to bless them as He has in the
past. We must bow the knee and serve the
Lord with a full determination to do His bid-
ding, that we may be worthy of His blessings.
There are those among us who, when in health
forget their God, yet they expect the same
blessing and protecting care in the hours of
adversity, as those who fear Him and keep His
commandments. This Gospel is no fable
neither the Relief Society. The duties resting
upon the sisters in these organizations are
many, and I know they are diligent in their
labors. Prayed that they might continue so
and that the sickness and disease might be
stayed in our midst. Singing "Oh my
Father." Prayer by Coun. Wm. Johnson.
	Afternoon services resumed at 1 o'clock with
the usual opening exercises of singing and
prayer. A very interesting and instructive
letter from Stake Coun. Cyrena Merrill, who
resides at St. David, was read by the Secre-
tary. The stake and local reports were also
read, after which the following branches of
the R. S. were verbally reported by their re-
spective officers, Thatcher, Layton, Central
and Pima. Each bearing a faithful testimony
to the divinity of the Gospel, and expressed a
willingness to perform the labors assigned
them. Four others were not reported.
	Pres. East said, "If we do not cultivate the
spirit of the Gospel, how can we impart the
same unto our children, who have chosen to
come here to receive this training in order to
prepare them for an inheritance in the king-
dom of God, and to develop the faith in their
young and tender minds." Prayed that the
power of God might rest down upon us in

[Column 3]

full abundance and stay the plagues and
disease in our midst.
	Sister Rhoda Foster spoke a short time ad-
vancing many subjects of interest which, in
their nature, were calculated to encourage us
in keeping the covenants we have made.
	Coun. Elizabeth Layton of Thatcher Ward,
said she felt as well or better in the principles
of the Gospel to day than ever. Her desire
was to live in such a way as to be able to
rear her children to become honorable mem-
bers in the Church. Implored the blessings
of heaven upon us.
	Coun. Wm. Johnson was thankful to know
there were those who still had a desire to
keep the commandments of God, and stand
firm in the principles of their most holy re-
ligion. We believe in the day spoken of by
the Prophets of old, when sickness, disease and
plagues shall be scattered broadcast among
us. We should therefore, see the necessity of
living near unto the Lord that we may claim
protection at His hands. The time is now at
hand when the dividing line will be drawn and
the hypocrits and traitors in Zion will be
known.
	Pres. Layton exhorted the Presidents of the
different branches of the Relief Society in the
Stake to be alive to their duties, care for the
sick and distressed in Zion, and seek first the
kingdom of God and all else will be added.
Invoked the blessings of God upon all.
	The names of the Stake and Local officers
were presented before the conference and
unanimously sustained. Conference adjourned
for three months the place of meeting to be
here after designated. The congregation arose
and sang Doxology. Prayer by Coun. Wm.
Johnson.
		L. GUSTAFISON, Sec.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Stake was held in the
14th Ward Hall Thursday, March 13, 1890,
Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding. Her Counselor
Mrs. E. S. Taylor, Mrs. E. Howard Secretary,
and Mrs. B. W. Smith Treasurer of the Stake
organization were on the stand. Conference
opened by singing "Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah," prayer by Coun.
E. S. Taylor, singing "When time shall be no
more." Roll called, Presidents and Counselors
responded, minutes of previous Conference
were read and approved. Reports from the
several branches in the Stake and also the
complete Stake totals were read by the Secre-
tary.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith made the opening speech
said these are good times to serve the Lord,
pay attention to the counsel we receive and put
it in practise and we shall come off conquerors;
do good to the needy and afflicted it gives
much joy. The teachers should be faithful
and persevere in looking after those in want.
	Pres. Horne was glad of the improvement
in the reports."pleased that the branches many
of them have remembered the Hospital,we had
hoped to have a building of our own before
now, but the government has robbed us as a
people of our property and it will be hard to
tell when there will be a change. Let us con-
tinue to store up grain, we may be ridiculed
but if we read the Scriptures, we know a
famine is coming, and we will see the day we
shall be glad we have wheat on hand; mothers
should teach their little ones to be careful of
the bread do not allow them to waste it, nor,
give them more than they can eat; it is im-
portant that we should be careful of every-
thing the Lord has blessed us with "Wilful
waste makes woful want." We are steward
over what the Lord has lent us, therefore, w
shall be held accountable for wasting ou
means. The Lord has blessed our efforts since


[Column 1]

we came to these valleys, let us be wise and ap-
preciate our father's kindness, He is our
friend, let us continually seek for wisdom that
we may do right.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor, "we have a perfect right
to live our religion every day. President
Young told us to trade with our co-religionists,
how have we kept that counsel? We have put
money in the hands of men in this city to use
to our injury. The Lord is trying us, let us
examine ourselves and ask are we doing any-
thing to cause us to be brought into bondage.
I am afraid I have not much charity for those
who boast so much of what they are going to
do. They give us who came here and made
the country no credit, for anything, we have
all labored hard for what we have, now they
boast they are going to rob us of all they can,
let us pray for charity. Conference adjourned
to 2 p. m. with singing "The time is far
spent." and a benediction by Mrs. E. Barton.
	Afternoon session. singing "O, Jesus the
giver of all we enjoy," prayer by Mrs. E.
Howard, singing "O, say what is truth," the
secretary then read the following address:
	To my sisters of the Relief Society. Not
being privileged to meet with you, my health
suffering somewhat from the wintry weather, I
thought a few words in this silent way would
be better than none at all. My heart and de-
sires are with those whose aims are for the up-
building of the kingdom of God, to benefit
one another, to feed, clothe and comfort the
needy in a tangible form. The widow and the
fatherless, and the sick and afflicted who may
be thrown upon the charity of others, by cir-
cumstances over which they had no control,
should cause the more favored ones to over-
flow with gratitude, and to remember those
who are being tried in their turn as many of
us have been in days gone by, and being per-
haps, more keenly tried in this day—being both
proud and sensitive—with the difference that
is marked between the poor and many of the
rich and prosperous. The excellent discourse
delivered by President George Q. Cannon Feb.
23rd, he closes with some of the words of
King Benjamin that would be profitable for
us all to act upon. As President Cannon said
"we come far from reaching the standard that
God has held up for us We are not as self-
sacrificing as we should be. We do not love
our neighbors as we should do. In our
struggles we think little of those that are
weaker than ourselves, that have not the
ability that we have, and we pass them in the
race, and frequently we jostle them out of the
track." As he says "there is too much of this
among us." But the Lord has never stopped
His ears to the cries of the humble, and they
can look to Him and find sympathy and
succor in the hour of trouble, no matter what
position they may be placed in while in this
probation they have the consoling words of the
Lord of Hosts that He is no respecter of persons.
This is a day in which He is testing His
people, and it is for us to watch as well as pray
that we walk not in darkness at noonday. It
is a time when we need to read His command-
ments given through the Prophet Joseph for
our guidance.
	(The time seems upon us in which the Saints
are to be tried with wealth. And things that
I see transpiring remind me, in some particu-
lars, of the few days of seeming prosperity of
the Church at Kirtland But those whose
eyes can be dazzled by gold, or the glittering
tinsels that Mammon holds out, till they lose
sight of the greater riches just within our
grasp that cannot perish, and, as it were, sell
their birthright for a bowl of pottage, will be
thus fulfilling a prediction. My father (Heber
C. Kimball) was frequently heard to say that
he dreaded the day that this people were to
be tried with riches, more than all the poverty

[Column 2]

and persecution that could befall them. But
we must all have opportunities to be proven.)
	The word of the Lord is what we should
heed. He said to the Saints June 1st 1833, at
Kirtland "Verily, thus saith the Lord unto
you, whom I love, and whom I love I also
chasten, that their sins may be forgiven, for
with the chastisement I prepare a way for
their deliverance in all things out of tempta-
tion, and I have loved you. Therefore ye must 
needs be chastened and stand rebuked before
my face." The remainder my sisters can read
at their leisure. The Lord calls many but they
are not all chosen. His words to the Saints
then are as applicable to day. The Lord has
suffered our foes to prevail against us "but
fear them not," He says, "for they are as grass,
and all their glory as the flower thereof which
soon falleth."
	I do not see it as some do, that we should
yield up the city, sell our inheritances, and
seek homes in other quarters without a stronger
reason than the threats of men to tax us till
we will be compelled to leave. Many will
have to bend to this pressure, but the spirit of
speculation should not get the better of our
judgment. But whatever comes we may be
assured that the Lord is making use of the
tools, and materials in various forms that are
presenting themselves. All will help to push
the great work upward and onward to its
grand and glorious destiny, and this is worth
our battling for. If this people were to leave
here prosperity and progress would cease as it
did in every place that they settled in the states
and were driven from. Every move that has
been made to destroy this work has turned out
to the accomplishment of some mighty purpose.
The Lord is working out the salvation of
Israel, but these things are hidden from the
wicked. That His wisdom may guide our feet
is the sincere desire of your sister.
		HELEN M. WHITNEY.
	Mrs. M. W. Wilcox Cor. Sec. of the Stake
bore a strong testimony to the truth and al-
luded to the benefit of the Sisters' organiza-
tions.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball "I am very happy to
see your faces once more in a Relief Society
capacity. I have traveled more than 6,000
miles since I met with you here. I have felt
and realized that we were sustained by the
faith and prayers of our sisters at home; there
are many trying to do good but there are none
that have the truth to lead them as we have.
I went to Washington as a suffragist and I
made them feel it was none of their business
what church we belong to. I think the in-
terest of the suffragists are the same as the
Relief Society and one with the other are
helps to woman. I attended the Episcopal
Church there I heard not one word of salva-
tion or who Jesus is. They know nothing
about what we rejoice in. One of the best
discourses I heard was from a woman. Those
with whom we conversed had a feeling that we
had something they had not. Let us have no
feeling of bigotry, we ought not to cherish any-
thing of the kind. We should have an influ-
ence to bless mankind and let our influence
be for good and doing good to all we can."
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark spoke a short time and
referred to mothers whose sons are upon mis-
sions and the exercise of faith in God and said
many good things.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. Howard, Coun.
E. S. Taylor and Pres. Horne each made suit-
able remarks containing many valuable sug-
gestions and full of instruction to mothers and
to all who are laboring in the best interests of
the Relief Society and the uplifting of
humanity.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
singing "When shall we all meet again," bene-
diction by Mrs. Diana Reid.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SCHOOLS OF MUSIC.

	The evil which appears most liable to develop
out of the modern tendency is a demand for an
imitation of nature—a thing incompatible with
the highest aspiration of art. There is not a
great composer who has not at some time been
tempted to indulge in this tendency. For ex-
ample, Haydn’s imitation of the crowing rooster;
Beethoven’s cuckoo, quail, and nightingale,
and his programme style in the "Pastoral
symphony;" and Mendelssohn’s braying donkey
in the "Midsummer Night's Dream." But
these solitary instances of materialism, although
to be condemned in theory, and exhibiting a
tendency which was in general condemned by
these composers themselves, would make good
and beautiful music anyway, even to persons
who had never heard a cuckoo or a donkey.
Of course we enjoy whatever is beautiful
music, no matter what atrocious names may
be given to the composition in question. It
need not be necessarily highstrung and
philosophical to be enjoyed.
	Many a Strauss waltz is thoroughly enjoyable,
even if Strauss was not very high up in the 
scale of renned or profound musical thought.
Such a waltz as the “Blue Danube” or “Artist’s
Life,” is enjoyable to the best musical taste,
when considered in its proper sense; that is
not in the least intellectual or thoughtful, but
pleasing witn its rhythmical beat and suggest-
tion of the dance. But although to a musical 
mind, and a healthy body, this kind of music
fills a certain place, still it is not elevating.
	The worst class of music against which we
have to defend ourselves is that vulgar,
realistic kind of composition, of which we see
so much written for the piano. The thunder-
storm piece, in which the listener is told that
a certain horrible jargon of ear-splitting dis-
sonance on the long brass wires is the thunder,
and that those meaningless, tinkling notes on
the short wires represent drops of rain on the
roof, while the sickly sentimental melody at the
end is the beautiful rainbow. Then there is
the battle piece, like the "Battle or Prague,"
which used to be the climax of musical educa-
tion in many of our boarding schools for young
ladies. But a mere listener to this phantasma-
goria will be of more benefit, and will do more
to elucidate its character than could an entire
essay on the subject. The difficulty lies in our
mistaking the province of music, which does
not treat of length, breadth, or thickness,
weight and color, and never can give an imi-
tation or reproduction of objects and things in
nature and every-day life. Even the most
aggressive romanticist will not do more thau
try to rival the poet in expression of feeling and 
passion. He will seek strange harmonies, inter-
rupted melodies, violent modulations and unpre-
pared transitions in order to express ecstasy,
fear, despair. He may attempt, like Wagner,
to intoxicate us with a crash of trumpets or
drive us to despair with the roll of a muffled
drum. But, though this kind of composition
satisfies the most sensitive and musically intel-
lectual hearer, and may astonish or frighten the
most unmusical, still it does not escape the re-
proach or criticism of offending the ear, that
is, the purely musical ear, considered as enjoy-
ing by itself alone, and not alloiwng head and
heart to take part in the enjoyment.
	But that music which has to be labeled and
plastered over with directions as to how it
must be shaken and taken, is not music at all.
When an individual's pleasure in listening de-
pends on the closeness of imitation to thunder
and lightning, or a battle with the Sioux, or
some particular babbling brook with two perch
swimming in its clear waters, then that man
may be said to have no music in his soul how-
ever fit he may be for anything else.
	If much of this so-called programme music,
or prescription music, could be labeled with a


[Column 1]

skull and crossbones, it would be at least pro-
fessional courtesy. Now, in literature and
painting every one of any education and in-
telligence recognizes such clap-trap, and loses
no time in discrimination; but how different is
the case as regards music!
	The great leader of the present and latest
development in musical art is Richard Wagner.
His music may be called realistic, but only so
because he chooses to accomplish his end, the
most profound pleasure, through the employ-
ment of real means. Quoting from his own
words: "The goal of the united efforts of three
types of artist, the poet, the musical composer,
and the actor, can only be a work of art made
positively real to the senses by a life-like pre-
sentation; in short, a work of art that, as com-
pared to the only one now known, shall be in
truth the art work of the future. And until
it has become fully living and real, we have
not reached our goal." It must be with Wagner
that same tendency for employing realistic
means, fitted to the scientific and practical spirit
of the times, that we see in many of the masters
of fiction at the present time. The same
realism and science of the times in Germany
is embodied in the poetry and prose of Sheffel,
Freytag, and the so-called professor novels of
Ebers, full of almost too much learning. But
more particularly do the novels of George
Eliot and Tolstoi illustrate this tendency to
employ natural living scenes from our every-
day life, for the purpose of presenting the
highest artistic ideas. It is, of course, impossi-
ble to make any comparison whatever between
the writers of literature and composers of
music. From the point of view taken by the
romanticists one might say that our better
emotions and sympathies are approached by
or through a certain imitation, or better, sug-
gestion of real natural truths and circumstan-
ces in human life and existence. And, while
this can be done readily enough in literature,
in music it is a different matter. Music can
only approach our souls or appeal to our emo-
tions through the imagination, and in this ca-
pacity, as already remarked, it can never give
dimensions, data, and fact without losing its
distinctive claims to the character of pure
music. In one or two particulars Wagner
and Tolstoi, as types of realism, appear to my
mind as similar. Tolstoi has a great purpose
in view—a picture of truth to delineate,
which he does by means of an endless amount
of descriptive detail, of the most intensely
commonplace and uninteresting kind, and
Wagner claims to have the same high artistic
purpose—no frivolity, no levity—only the most
weighty, intellectual pleasure, like the pleasure
in listening to high tragedy. He accomplishes
this, too, by a great detail of description, but
this means of description is not always music
even to musicians, any more than Tolstoi's in-
terminable and aimless details are always litera-
ture to litterateurs. There are interspersed in
Wagner's operas the most beautiful, penetrat-
ing, and often almost sensuous melodies; but,
musically speaking, there is more that becomes
merely descriptive. When he paints a giant
with his orchestrations, or a villian, the music
is inharmonious and offends us. When he
shows us the Niebelungen working underground
carrying loads of oar on their shoulders, the
effort becoms nearly as trying for the listener
as for the dwarfs themselves. The "motif"
of the Walkuere, or warrior goddesses, is not
music, and the "Walkurenritt," of ride of
these Amazons, although fascinating to music
cians, is more dramatic—is merely a realisti-
picture in music of this ride. In other scenes
in Wagner's operas, like the "Spring Night,"
the "Bird's Song," or the fire music (all in the
Trilogy), and even in whole operas, like the
Meistersinger von Nuernburg the music is so
beautiful that it is in itself alone, absolutely
unsurpassed in the history of the art. It is in

[Column 2]

the Trilogy. The ring of the "Neibelungs"(oc-
cuping four long evenings for its presentation)
in which Wagner carries his ideas and methods
so far, is most difficult even for musicians to
understand. His operatic writings are, upon
the whole, the most remarkable the world has
ever witnessed, and have had the greatest in-
fluence upon the musical taste of modern stu-
dents and real lovers of music. This influence
exhibits a tendency almost to obliterate, by its
high coloring, brilliancy, and dramatic power,
a great deal of the good but more moderate
music that has preceded it. Wagner has cer-
tainly created works of wonderful and original
beauty; many have done the same thing before
him and others will undoubtedly accomplish as
much in the future. The beauty of his works
is totally different from the imagination and
grandeur of Beethoven, or the more formal
beauties of Mozart. But the best critical stu-
dents can never claim that it is superior either
to one or to the other, comparison being an
impossibility in original artistic production.
Probably there is no such thing as progress,
and what we ordinarily term progress is simply
change or rotation, and "there is nothing new
under the sun." Certainly it is a more optim-
istic plan to hope for new lights in the history
of art. History may not repeat itself. But
Shakespeare has filled his place. Raphael and
Michael Angelo created for their time what
never could be inspired in the struggle and
progress of our modern civilization. That there
is relief in the present and future of musical
composition we may infer from the "creed" of
Hans von Bulow; "I beleive in Bach the
Father, Beethoven the Son, and Brahms the
Holy Ghost in music." Time alone will de-
termine whether Brahms has written Beet-
hoven's "tenth Symphony,"or whether
Wagner is a hundred years before his time.
Ex.		—Henry C. Post.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


OBITUARY.

	Died at Moroni Sanpete Co. Nov. 9th Sarah Pippin
Jolley, wife of Reuben Manning Jolley. Deceased was
born May 9th 1812, in North Carolina. Moved with her
parents to Tennessee, Weekly Co. In 1842 the Gospel
was carried to them by Elder Clapp and others. They re-
ceived the Gospel message, and with a family of five child-
ren emigrated to Nauvoo, Hancock Co. Ill They were
living there at the time of the martyrdom of the Prophet
Joseph and Hyrum Smith; were driven with the Saints
from their homes, and started for the Rocky Mountains
but were advised to remain on the other side of the Missouri
River on account of the delicate health of the family. It
was at this place April 29th, 1849 that Reuben Jolley be-
came a victim to death through the hardships and exposure
with which they passed. Now Sister Jolley was a widow
with ten children. Brothey Jolley told his wife to continue
the journey and follow the Church. After laying her hus-
band away and marking the place with a beautiful head-
stone; she started with her children once more for the
West, and came that season to Council Bluffs, and the next
year 1850 came to Salt Lake with all her children except-
ing one son who married and remained behind. After she
arrived in Utah she struggled hard to make her family com-
fortable, and passed through many trials.
	There are eight children and over two hundred grand-
children and great-grand-children left to mourn her loss.
	Sister Jolley was one of the first members of the Relief
Society labored as a teacher and for many years as a
Counselor to Pres. Jane Bailey. She was also a Sunday
School teacher for years. She was an excellent nurse
among the sick. Sister Jolley spent her her life in useful-
ness and has worked considerably in the Temple for the
dead. May she rest in peace.
	It is a late hour for having her death published but we
hope to be excused as it was impossible to get her biography
sooner.	
							JANE BAILEY, Pres. R. S.
							DEBORAH IRONS, Coun.
							MARY H. DRAPER, Sec.


DR. ELLIS R. SHIP
Will commence her next
OBSTETRIC CLASS,
APRIL 15th, 1890.
	Parties wishing to join the class will please commu-
nicate with me as to books, terms, etc., immediately. 
	Address: 16 Main St., Salt Lake City.
{Picture of Union Pacific badge}
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
-AT-	
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
J. V. PARKER,
Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House. 
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 18.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1890.			No. 22.


CONTENTS.
	Hepzibah. Woman’s Works,—Lydia Lund.
R. S. Report,—Cassia Stake. Notes and News.
Silk Worms, R. S. General Conference. Wo-
man's Mind Equal to Man’s,—Ella F. Smith.
	Editorial. After Sixty Years. Seventy-Seven.
Editorial Note. Daughters Israel. S.W. Rich-
ards, W. S. A. Pleasant Grove,—F. E. S. U.
W. S. A. Convention,—Rachel Edwards, Sec’y.
Letter to Mrs. H. M. Whitney,—W. H. B.
	Poetry. In the Silent City,—L. M. Hewlings.
Felicia,—Augusta Joyce Crocheron. True Hearts
Ne’er Divided,—L. M. Hewlings. Coquettish
April,—E. B. W.


IN THE SILENT CITY.

In the Silent City, we have laid her down to rest,
Tired, worn and weary, sorely with cares opprest,
We would fain have here detained her, still an earthly
	guest,
E'en rebelling while we murmur, "God knoweth best."

Faithfully she struggled all life’s duties to fulfil
Patient in self-denial, meting good for ill. 
How much we mourn and miss her, no language e'er could
	tell,
While we sadly murmur, "He doeth all things well."

In the Silent City, we have laid our dear loved one,
No sweet responsive greeting, from her can come;
The voice that cheer’d and gladdened,is now forever dumb,
Yet we cry in anguish, "Thy will, not mine, be done."
								L. M. HEWLINGS.


FELICIA.

From cloistered walls and woman's care
He brought his only child;
Through shadowy halls and windows bright,
The sun stole in and checked its light
Where, garlanded by symbols old,
Legends of beauty, valor bold,
Her own dead mother's picture smiled.

From out those casements ivy-wreathed,
A dream like garden met her sight,
From out those turrets higher still,
Her eyes might rove and drink their fill
Of forest, lake and waterfall,
Nor weary grow from morn till night.

All guarded 'round, the ancestral lands
Were safe as her own fireside;
Through woods whose light was green with shade
Or flecked with gold where sunlight strayed,
And musical with songs of birds
Or silent, save her voice was heard
The child might wander undenied.

For height and glen and dimpled vale
Were her's by birth and the young Lord  
Had all his people's love, and she
The flowers of his ancestral tree,
Held in their hearts that tender place
None since her mother's death had graced
Now unto her in full restored.

So free to wander and return
At her sweet will; where lilies hide
In shadows cool, and mosses creep,
Where little brooks their heights o'erleap,
And silent pools gave back to her
The sight, in silence lovelier—
The maiden and her hound beside,

[Column 2]

"What hast thou in the green wood found?"
Then answered she with gentle grace;
"I have found what words cannot tell,
As echoes falling sink and swell
And while we listen, die away
Yet in our being sing alway,
Unnamed, yet keeping there a place."

So passed their days and oft he gazed
As one half dreaming, on her face,
Feasting his heart in tenderness
Upon her girlhood's loveliness,
Picturing sometimes, what would be
That form arrayed in dignity
Belonging to her name and place,

"But—Oh not yet, still let her bloom
Sweet as the wild rose and as free
Not yet, the time of that new life
When pride and praise and beauty's strife
Efface the holy bloom of youth
And trace across the heart of truth
First thoughts of human falsity.

"Not yet for her that hour of fate
'Mid worldly splendors' golden light,
When one shall come her heart to win,
Nor even she can see within
The guise his soul perhaps might wear
'Till time shall prove him false or fair
And make life's fulness or its blight.

"She comes! a dream of beauty, grace 
And purity.  Ah could I keep
Her peace forever sweet as this,
My heart would ask no dearer bliss."
Fair, silent as the moonbeam's ray
Where murmuring wavelets rippling play,
She came like one who walks in sleep.

And while he watched her fervently
She came straight-way his chair beside,
She wreathed her white arms round his neck
And, as though sudden words to check,
Against his own she laid her cheek
And trembled, yet she did not speak,
Nor sought the rare, bright tears to hide.

"What hast thou in thy roaming met?
Is't joy, or sorrow, or some fear?
Where are thy little page and hound,
To call me not with faithful sound
If, thou hast met with thought of fright,
Like some late bird at coming night
Though moon and stars are shining clear?

But oh, the answer in her eyes
Revealed a truth in sudden light;
The little bird safe in its next
And warm beneath its mother's breast;
Will try its wings and, and nevermore
Is the wee nestling as before
But a new creature by that flight.

So, a wide change before his eyes,
The care his love had thought to rear
Against the world was all in vain;
For, o'er its heights, like sun and rain
The soul of love unerring drew
And to its voice, strange, sweet and new
Her own made echo true and clear.

"My hound was ever near my side,
My little page not far away,
And neither fear or thought of night
Came in my path, but, to my sight
There came one, wandering as I
For pleasure, just as free birds fly
Nor think it wrong where'er they stray.

"I saw him first while swift he rode
Through the dim forest to the lake,
And watched him where cliff shadows fall

[Column 3]

Above the whirlpool, and the call
Of sea gulls mingle with the cries
Of singing birds far up the skies
And wind and wave one chorus make.

"I saw him where the timid fawn
Scarce leaves her nest for fear of him;
He plucked a flower where, overleap
The shining waters, falling deep,
And where a pool, like mirror lies,
And boughs o'erhead in columns rise
And flowers perfume the arches dim."

"And hast thou learned to love him, child?
Thou hast but little known of life;
For thee wait honors; our own name
Is centuries old and linked with fame;
Mine only child, I fain would twine
Title as high and fair with thine
When thou shalt bear the name of wife."

"He proves his birth by noble mien,
And all the world, without him there
Would be for me a lonely place,
Since I have seen his smiling face;
All honors won through centuries old
Are pale and faint, are dim and cold
If with his life I have no share."

"I deemed thy life as yet a child's.
Tell me how thou hast learned so soon
To value as of lesser worth,
Splendor and pomp of titled birth
Beside the love of one unknown,
And guided by its voice alone
Have reached ere morning fades, its noon?"

"Ask me why summer light is joy,
Ask me what music is and then
I can reply. I only know
Since his dark eyes looked at me so,
That, bird and brook, glade, flower and tree
Make with his voice a harmony
That chimes to me o'er and again."

A step drew near. Not little page
Bowed low and entered, it was one
Who came as suitor, loyally.
Sing, little birds in every tree!
For she had loved with faithful eyes
One worthy, in his huntsman's guise—
An Earl—their distant kinsman's son.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
April 7th 1890.


HEPHZIBAH.
				XIX.

	When love comes in the balmy summer hours, 
		While all the earth with conscious pleasure teems,
	We linger in fair Eden’s charmed bowers,
		And ponder o’er, and o’er, love’s happy dreams.

	The “Pearce Farm,” was just the place for
love-making, secluded, quiet and peaceful.
The great, square front-yard was full of old-
fashioned flowers in bloom, and the house was
fragrant all day long with the perfume of
honey suckle and sweetbrier, that clustered
about the doorways; hay-making is said to be
love-making time, and now the new-mown hay,
lay sweet and fresh in the meadows; and this
young stranger from abroad was in search of a
wife; (though Hepsie knew it not;) he deter-
mined to make love while the opportunity was
favorable; his heart was touched with “Cupid’s
arrow," the girl was simplicity itself to him,
and suited his mood, after his experience in [---]
world. Only twice afterwards did they meet,	
ere almost without an engagement they were


[Column 1]

wed. The question that decided Hephzibah's
fate was asked one lovely afternoon when they
were sauntering through the meadows, just as
the sun was gaily lighting up the Western
sky. Harold had been in a very poetic mood,
and very tender withal after the fashion of an
ardent admirer, of which Hepsie had not the
slightest practical idea, and when he asked her
if she loved him well enough to be his wife,
she looked down and sighed, she knew not
what answer to make and in place of any re-
ply he caught her in his arms and kissed her
passionately, and declared he could not live, if
she refused to marry him. Hepsie struggled
to free herself from his embrace, she knew not
what to say; it was true that she was fascinated
by his charming presence; but she felt more
like weeping than rejoicing, she begged him
to give her time to think it all over, it had
been so sudden, such a surprise, she had not
dreamed of any declaration. She could
scarcely believe it was true. "I must see my
mother," she said, "she will understand better
than I do, I cannot answer now, school has not
closed yet, there are many things to be con-
sidered, O, no I cannot marry a stranger, you
must not come again my heart tells me so."
	Harold replied with the firmness of one who
knew his influence, "Hepsie you are mine now,
if love can make us one, but I will not come
again, since you will have it so, good night,
I'll not go in," by this time they had reached
the door, "good night," he clasped her to his
bounding heart and was gone in a moment,
she had not spoken again, she listened to the
sound of the horse's hoofs as as he rode away
in the still, calm twilight, and she felt as though
all was over; stealing quietly into her room
she threw herself down upon the bed and
wept bitterly, the great round moon shone in
upon the bare floor and the shadows of the
tall elm trees were like ghosts to her weird
imagination. Bye and bye sleep came to her
relief and the morning found her calm and
self-possessed, At breakfast Farmer Pearce,
who was a man of very few words said, "Miss
Hathaway you were late coming in from your
evening walk, I heard the horse's hoofs down
the rocky hill, and by the bye young Harvey
is a Mormon, and though his father is an old
friend of mine, yet on your account I can't
encourage his visits here Mr. Beamen charged
me to keep Mormons away from you, I'm sorry
for Harold, he's desperately smitten;" Hepsie
felt so embarassed she could not speak, but
Mrs. Pearce came to the rescue in her cool
way "let Miss Hathaway alone 'Lihu she
knows how to take care of herself, and as for
Mr. Beamen he put her in our care, and I'll
answer for't she'll not fall in love with neither
young Harvey with his polishes, nor Bancroft
neither; I know somethin about girls, she's
no fool." After this defense Hepsie felt ex-
cused from any reply, she went to her room to
dress for school and Farmer Pearce went out
to his haying; but the dear old lady followed
Hepsie and said, "don't mind my old man, he's
very fond of you Miss Hathaway, and he thinks
you're too good for Mr. Bancroft—he likes
young Harvey, only you know his folks are
'Mormons,' rich as they are, and they mean to
go to Nauvoo soon, and I guess they'd like
Harold to get him a wife and go along with
um." Hepsie had hard work to keep still,
but she could not talk about it. "I must go
now Mrs. Pearce don't worry about me, I
never was like other people; and I can't please
everybody either."
	Hepsie was very much dissatisfied with
herself, and she thought over and over what
had transpired. She felt she was in no wise
responsible for the coming of this young man,
nor had she tried to win his love; she had
[---]nted companionship to be sure and every-
thing [---] seemed to turn the tide of affairs in
his favor. She felt a little lonely when she

[Column 2]

thought that he would not come to Beechwoods
again; and a trifle piqued too.
	Mr. Bancroft renewed his attention follow-
ing her about so that she decided not to take
any more walks much as she needed the
change. He gave her to understand that he
knew Mr. H. had been unceremoniously dis-
missed and that Farmer Pearce would not
allow him to come there, and he intimated
that his love was not very deep, for he had also
paid his addresses to another young
lady, "one of your friends and of
your faith too." Evidently he expected this
would rouse Hepsie's indignation, or jealousy
if she really had an affection for Harold; but
he failed; the girl was non-committal. Not
even the old farmer or his wife could find
out, whether she was in love or not. Mean-
while Mr. B. pressed his attentions upon her,
though he must have known she disliked him,
he expected to win in the end by persistency
as many lovers had done.
	Before school closed Miss H. had recieved
two or three letters from Miss Reynolds in
reference to Harold and one anonymous one
warning her to beware of young Harvey. She
knew the handwriting however though the
author had sought to disguise it. She only
answered one letter but that was shown to
Harold and confirmed him in his determination
to marry her. We have not space to tell all
the tumult of emotions that pervaded the heart
of Hepsie during the last three weeks of the
school. It was a curious experience for so
young a girl. Her sister Mrs. S. and others
had heard of the young stranger's visits and
had visited her to warn her against marrying
a "Mormon." She had made up her mind
that she would not be over-persuaded either
way, and each conversation she had with friend
or relative always resulted in a flood of tears.
	School closed at last and Hepsie returned
home the following day and gradually she was
let into the secret, her own secret, that she was
to be married. It was quite understood, every
one knew except herself—all the arrangements
had been made before her return. The
Harveys were going to Nauvoo and many
other families from adjoining villages. There
seemed to be a special Providence in this
affair and everything tended in the direction
of the union of Harold and Hepsie. Had
the girl become more acquainted with him, the
marriage might never have been solemnized
but it was all managed as it were without
"common consent:" Hepsie had argued with
her mother thus "it will mar all my plans for
future action, everything will have to be
changed henceforth, all the golden vision of
my rose-hued future, my ambition to become
an author, must be buried in oblivion."
And she reasoned with herself, "Will his love
be sufficient to compensate me for all that I
have looked forward to,—the dreams of my
child-life, the ambition of my girlhood." She
was not quite satisfied; it was like a sacrifice
after all.
	A quiet wedding in a country village, the
one where Hephzibah was born and where
three generations of the family had taken an
active part. The morning was very beautiful;
many and fervent were the congratulations of
the villagers and friends, and yet there was
a degree of disappointment apparent. It was
not what had been expected, for many friends
had foretold for her a brilliant future. It really
seemed inconsistent that she should marry
young and settle down like other people to
common-place pursuits.
	It was strange that after the ceremony was
over, and the people had dispersed, for there
was neither wine nor wedding cake, or "a mar-
riage feast." of any kind: it was very strange
that the bride should have chosen of all places
in the world to take Harold for a ramble to
"the paternal mansion," it was not exactly in

[Column 3]

keeping with bridal garments, but it proved to
be a premonition of the future.
	Harold was enthusiastic in expressing his
new-found happiness, but Hepsie could not re-
joice. She could only see the old house as it
had been, her grand-pa sitting by the fire or
under the shade of the elms, and feel his hands
upon her head caressing her in the most endear-
ing terms. Soon after the marriage the young
couple took up their abode with Mr. and Mrs.
Harvey, who were busy making preparations
for gathering with the Saints to Nauvoo.
Hepsie soon found that a great deal was ex-
pected of her, more than she was equal to pre-
form. It was a frequent remark of Mrs.
Harvey's "I'm surprised you have such shift-
less ways, with all our money I would not
have brought up a girl in such an idle lacka-
daisical manner as you have been.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S WORKS.

	I do not believe woman desires to rise above
man, or usurp any of his rights. And would
the opposers of "Woman’s Suffrage furnish
every lady with an upright intelligent, sober,
working husband, they would be willing to
stand by his side as his counselor and educator
of his children.
	But let us take a glance around the world,
and see her true condition. If it be across
ocean or in our own loved land, we find women
 not by the hundreds or thousands, but by the
millions thrown on their own resources for
support, young girls homeless with parents
unable to provide for them, wives widowed
by death or desertion, or worse still husbands
who fail to support them, and they, left to pro-
vide for their families. Then if woman must
take equal responsiblities with man, should
she not have equal rights. 
	There are many positions in which she gives
as good satisfaction as a man for instance in
the schoolroom, in the sales room, or
as type setter, and in many other places of
trust, but is she recompensed with equal salary?
No! for the same work, she receives from 1/3 to
1/2 less pay.
	But the majority of women are not prepared
for any of these positions and must eke out a
meager living by earning a mere pittance at
the hardest drudgery.
	Then is it to be wondered at, that her more
fortunate sisters seek to help lift her burdens,
to alleviate her woes and clamor for equal rights
and laws, that the training and education of
the child should be self suporting.
	For a woman who can face the world and
feel herself equal to any fate that may befall
her is richer, than if she posessed government
bonds.
	Woman’s cause is just and will eventually
succeed.
	Then let us as a band of sisters, not tire in
the good work we have just begun, but march
onward, ever onward until success crowns our
united efforts and right wins the day.
						LYDIA LUND


The Value of Detached Ideas! That de-
pends—upon whose ideas they are: whether
the idea is one of Shakespeare’s myriads, or of
old Montaigne’s thousands, or Bacon’s or
Pascal’s or Goethe’s hundreds,  or Emerson’s
scores—an idea that can stand by itself, an
idea which is like a rose from your garden,
which does not need the garden itself to en-
hance its beauty; an idea which is like a beau-
tiful pillar from a Greek temple, more than
an ordinary temple itself, for a temple is only
a place for worship, while this is a thing to
worship—for its beauty. The value of this—
of beauty and the love of beauty—will stand
as long as the world stands.
						Woman’s Cycle.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	TRUE HEARTS NE'ER DIVIDED.

[TO A DEAR ONE.]

BY L. M. HEWLINGS.

Dear loved one, I am sitting in the warm half-open door,
Sunshine falls in golden showers around me on the floor,
Gay-birds sweet songs are singing and the warm breeze
	floating by,

Whispers winter is departing, glad spring is drawing nigh.
Oh! I do not grieve that winter is fleeing fast away,
No, spring is ever welcome, with her soft and tuneful lay,
The streamlets gushing music, the cool, green lawn and
	bower,
Bring to my soul a feeling of deeply thrilling power.
Bright beauteous tinted fairy! in smiles and softness
	dressed,
Haste thou and do not tarry, come earth's stricken ones to
	bless;
There's magic in thy sunshine, healing in each soft-breathed
	air,
Surely thou hast power to soothe all sorrow but despair!
My thoughts they will go roaming, they are turning unto
	thee.
And my heart is sadly yearning thy smile again to see,
For a message from thy hand I have looked the winter
	long,
But no spell has silence broken, in sunshine or in storm.
Thro' the whole long flight of days, have no odds or ends
	of time,
Been found to pen a letter in plain prose or mystic rhyme'
Breathing of joy or sadness, as thy days might prove to be,
Yet with sweet assurance blended of love and truth to me?
Now the sunlight soft and golden, is fading from the floor,
And twilight shadows gather around the open door,
Thro' the dim and shadowy past I'm roaming fancy free,
And voices seem to whisper softly loving words to me.
Blest hope and trust, are mine again, guardians of the way,
My sky is bright with love and joy, I see no evil day,
No shadows of a coming gloom around my spirit fall,
Life’s sweetest flowers gaily bloom—their light is over all.
I dream not now of broken ties, of loved ones scatter'd
	wide,
A group of loving ones are near—we're roamingside by
	side,	
Radiant smiles and tender words breathe music in my heart,
No cold farewells, no sad adieus, no sighing "we must
	part."
Oh! 'tis sweet to travel back e'en in thought to days of
	youth,
Gather up the sunny ways, of pure unsullied truth,
Fresh garlands of that hopeful time, when gladness would
	hold sway,
In our life's bright dewy morning; the green and budding
	May!
Now the shadows of the twilight have deepen'd into night,
The last bright golden glimpse of day has faded far from
	sight.
And the silver moon is smiling after o'er land and waves,
With holy luster gilding many quiet lonely graves.
And some there are of our loved ones, on whom her light
	is shed.
The dust of which our wand'ring feet on earth may never
	tread.
But this truth do not forget, tho' our homes apart be wide,
No earthly barriers yet could true loving hearts divide.
Fond souls together may commune tho' water broad and
	deep,
Vast rolling prairies stretch between and mountains high
	and steep.


COQUETTISH APRIL.

Coquettish April with her smiling face
	Bespangled with the dewdrops and the rain;
One moment laughing with a winsome grace,
	With all her mocking, and deceptive train,—
Promising sunshine, seedtime, bud and bloom—
	And then anon tossing her haughty head,
While breath of violets waft a sweet perfume,
	And o'er the land their welcome fragrance shed,—
As if in recompense of mischief done;
	Of promises unkept, vows unfulfilled;   
From early morn until the set of sun,
	Capricious as a naughty child self-willed.


The hues of many flowers adorn her way,
	And rippling music of the brooks and rills,
Keep time, while elves and fairies dance and play,
	In the sly nooks of verdure-covered hills.

She blows the dandelions in our very eyes,
	And curls the stems as playthings in her hands,
And laughs coquettishly at the surprise,
	Of those who wot not of her witching bands.
She fans us with a South wind as a child,
	Then like a tempest in a mad'ning gale
She frowns, and moans, and shrieks in fury wild.
	As tho' the fate of all the world to wail.

She has not grandeur but forsooth she knows
	How to allure the wisest and the best;
And when at evening hour we seek repose
	She oft disturbs our slumber and our rest,
By flashing lightning's and the thunder's roar,
	And the commotion of "the powers that be."
While cloud-bursts in their fierceness downward pour
	Until the roseate light of morn we see.

So doth fair April herald in the Spring,
	And seemingly delight to tease and vex;
Her wonderful allurements she doth bring.
	Sometimes to charm but oftener to perplex.

The daffodils spring up beneath her feet,
	And with their hues, the skies are mirrored oft
The daisies, tulips, pansies, join to greet
	This maid of April with her smiles so soft,
When covering herself with mantle green,
	She treadeth lightly over hill and plain,
But wheresoe'er her footprints have been seen,
	We know her coming hath not been in vain.
She beareth lilies in her virgin breast,
	And holds within her hands the sacred palm,
And on a Sabbath morn supremely blest
	When nature spreads a sacred calm,—
Lo, she rehearses o'er the Savior's birth,
	How in a lowly manger He was born;
His life, His mission, and His goings forth,
	His advent on the Resurrection morn.
So blest is April with this Jubiiee
	No wonder that her moods are gay and sad,
For life o'er death then gained the victory,
	On that fair morning all the earth was glad.

Stay yet a moment more and we shall see,
	How full of passion is this timid maid,
She fills all nature with her songs of glee,
	Then blushes, as a virgin half-afraid
Of her own beauty, and her loveliness;
	Conscious of what she can but ill conceal,
Responding to each burst of tenderness
	She doth awake and all her charms reveal.
The bounding pulse of nature fuller thrills,
	When April comes, and melts the icy streams,
The gladness of "the everlasting hills,"
	O'er, all the vales, with bright resplendence beams.
We call thee, the coquette, for thou dost dare
	More icy hearts to break, than all the rest,
And leave them for the other maids to wear,
	When thou hast put their mettle to the test.
Fair Cupid points at thee his winged dart,
	But so enchanted is he with thy power,
He does not even wound thy maiden heart
	But whiles away with thee, the potent hour.
		E. B. W.
April 1890.


R. S. REPORT. 

			CASSIA STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Cassia Stake convened at Oakley
on the 21 st. of March a morning and after-
noon session being held; Pres. Louisa Haight
presiding with her counselors. 
	There were present the Stake Presidency
and several other brethren, also a very good
attendance of sisters. 
	The verbal reports, by the representatives
of the various wards, showed the members
striving to do their best; the unusually severe
weather of the winter had hindered the sisters
much in their labors and gatherings, but in all 
the wards they had managed their monthly


testimony meetings, though in some had been
obliged to discontinue their sewing sessions.
	During the conference many of the sisters
and brethren bore testimony to the truth and
spoke in an instructive manner, the burden
of their remarks being: the teaching of children
the principles of truth and the Gospel in their
early youth: the doing each day what is at our
hands that our duty may be performed: the
great privilege of meeting together to speak of
the goodness of God: that His hand overrules
all things: that the saints have never been
forsaken by Him, trials no cause for discourage-
ment, present time best to serve the Lord, 
brethren should co-operate with the sisters in 
their endeavors as a society, work for the dead; 
Church of God will prevail though unpopular:
duty of members of society to seek out the
sick and lonely, duty of brethren to preach to 
the nations of the earth, duty of sisters to 
teach at home and set a religious example there, 
hearts are needed as well as dollars in the
building up of the kingdom of God, if we 
expect our prayers to be answered we must
put forth our own energies in that direction. 
	Pres. Lousia Haight proposed that a Fair
be held during the coming Fall, to which
various branches of the Relief Society of the
stake should join in contributing some thing
of interest and usefulness, wished to see home-
work of all kinds encouraged. 
	Conference adjourned for three months.
					LOUSIA HAIGHT Pres.
					LOUSIA PICKETT Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	The estate of Robert Browning amounted 
to eighty-five thousand dollars—all earned by
writing poetry. 
	THE theme of the Japanese national anthem, 
as recently rendered in English, is: "Oh, that
the reign of our emperor might continue thou-
sands and thousands of years—until oyster
shells become rocks."
	The story that Mrs. General Grant will
publish a volume of the dead warrior's love
letters to herself is untrue. It grows out of
her intention to put into historical form much
of the valuable material that she necessarily
collected during her eventful life.
	The bill for the admission of the state of 
Wyoming with a constitution guaranteeing
equal suffrage to women passed the House of
Representatives on Thursday afternoon, March
27, by a strict party vote,—yeas 132, nays 119;
every Republican voting in favor and every 
Democrat against it. Welcome Wyoming!
	MRS. EMILY CRAWFORD, the noted Journalist
of London, says in answer to the question "what
do you think of journalism as a profession for
women?”  "Well.  I should say the first requi-
site was a giant constitution. A woman of 
delicate physique may do good by spells, but
the ceaseless grind of the regular journalistic
life requires the strongest constitution."


SILK WORMS.

	Mr. D. Graves has received another circu-
lar from the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
in which it is stated that persons desirous of
obtaining silk worm eggs can do so by apply-
ing to him and answering the following ques-
tions:
	Have you ever raised silk worms before?  If
"yes," state how many seasons you have raised
silk worms.
	Do you intend to use mulberry or orange
leaves in feeding the worms? 
	Have you a copy of Prof. Riley's pamphlet.
entitled, "The Mulberry Silk Worm" published
since 1885?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs.  City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 23 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 15, 1890.


AFTER SIXTY YEARS.

	The General Conference of the Church which
convened on the 6th of April 1890, was the
sixtieth Annual Conference and marks an event-
ful period in the age of the Church, three score,
six decades.  There are probably only a very few
people now living who were baptized into this
Church or who even knew of its origin in the year
1830.  The writer does not even know of one now
living though in all probability there may be some.
It is a long time to look back upon and "a mar-
velous work and a wonder" has been performed 
during this period of the history of the world.
The Latter-day Saints perfectly understand that
the most stupendous part of the work remains yet
to be performed.  The foundation stones have
been laid by those great men who have passed
away; only a few of those associated with Joseph
the Prophet yet live.  One very remarkable man
who was connected with this work at a very early
period, Wilford Woodruff for several years Presi-
dent of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and
now the President of the Church, whose ac-
quaintance with Joseph Smith probably dates
farther back than that of any other man now liv-
ing.
	This wonderful work is progressing notwith-
standing all the opposition, and persecution
brought to bear against it, the Church has in-
creased in numbers and in prosperity, flourished
and grown strong.
	During the Conference held this month which
lasted three days many thousands of people were
in regular attendance, morning and afternoon, and
thrilling discourses were delivered by the vener-
able President Wilford Woodruff and Pres. Geo.
Q. Cannon, of the First Presidency and by
Apostle Lorenzo Snow President of the Quorum
of the Twelve, also Apostle F. D. Richards
Church Historian, and nearly every member of
the entire Quorum.  Other Elders were also 
called upon to speak from time to time and the
Conference throughout was one of great import.
It certainly cannot be said after such an assem-
bling of the people from all quarters, that "Mor-
monism" is dying out, or the faith of the people
waxing cold.  On the contrary there was positive
proof furnished that Zion is growing, and all the
efforts of its enemies are fruitless.  Nothing can
stay its progress for it is not man's work, neither
can man overthrow it.  It is the little stone cut
out of the mountain without hands, and it will
roll forth and fill the whole earth and no power
can hinder it. So after sixty years we find this
magnificent structure healthy, strong and vigorous
in all the parts and branches thereof, spreading
itself afar among the nations, on the continents 
and the islands of the sea, and the Elders clothed
with the holy priesthood going out and proclaiming
gald tidings to those who sit in darkness, and


are afar off, warning them of dangers and calami-
ties and exhorting them to be upon the watch
tower and to prepare for the day of the coming of
the Lord.


SEVENTY-SEVEN.

	On Friday April 11th a party of ladies met by
special invitation at the residence of Mrs. Annie
E. Hyde, to celebrate the anniversary of the
birthday of the lady's mother, Mrs. Jane B.
Taylor, widow of the late President John Taylor;
Mrs. Taylor has reached the advanced age of
seventy-seven years, and many of those have
been spent in the service of the Church. The
afternoon was passed in congratulations to the
honored lady, exchanges of greetings, relating
past experiences, and in discussing the events of
"the day in which we live."
	A bounteous repast was served, the table being
handsomely decorated with flowers etc., and the
ladies were waited upon by Mrs. Hyde herself
and her two interesting daughters. Afterwards
a sort of parlor meeting was held Mrs. Presendia
L. Kimball the eldest lady present being chosen
to preside; (the lady is in her 80th year). After
singing an earnest prayer was offered by Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young, and each one of the sisters
present, beginning with Sister Presendia, ex-
pressed themselves in a few fitting words con-
gratulatory to Sister Taylor and their good de-
sires and efforts to assist in the Latter-day work,
and promote union; after a good season of rejoic-
ing spent in this way, with many allusions to
those sisters who had passed away, special men-
tion being made of Sisters Marinda Hyde, Sarepta
Heywood, Eliza R. Snow, Phebe Woodruff, Vilate
Kimball and Mother Whitney, Sister Mary Ann
Hyde exercised the gift of tongues, and Sister
Zina interpreted. A happy feeling was mani-
fested by all, and the meeting was dismissed with
singing and a benediction by Sister B. W. Smith.
Such reunions are both pleasant and profitable
spiritually; all feft to wish Sister Taylor many
happy returns of the day with health and pros-
perity as long as life should be desirable. Sister
Taylor received many little gifts and remem-
brances from her family and friends.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	Miss Flora E. Finlayson of the "Bostonians"
who recently performed in the Opera here was
studying at the New England Conservatory dur-
ing the time Prof. Evan Stephens was there and
also Miss Daisie D. Woods. While she was here
in the City Prof. Stephens and Miss Woods ar-
ranged to have a sort of impromptu recital for her
in the large Tabernacle Thursday Apr. 3, and
let her try her voice in that large building.
Prof. Radcliffe who is always extremely obliging
consented also to play a few pieces and Prof.
Stephens played Miss Finlayson's accompani-
ment on the organ, and she sang those simple
ballads "Annie Laurie," and "Love's Old Sweet
Song," in a most unaffected style and excellent
voice, as great singers always do. She has a rich
contralto voice and is one of the soloists of the
Bostonians. She is very handsome and graceful,
a genteel figure and very pleasing in manner. She
is a Western girl from Reno, Nevada and at the
N. E. Conservatory in Boston was known as
"Nevada." Prof. Radcliffe rendered some choice
selections from Baptiste in his very best style,
and it is well known here what that is. He has
made many friends since his residence in Salt
Lake City. Miss Finlayson paid one or two visits
to this office and sang several of her best songs
in the parlor of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. She is
rather new in opera but she is sure to win name
and fame, for she is not only a fine singer but has
winning ways, is modest, unassuming and also
beautiful and accomplished.


DAUGHTERS OF ISRAEL.

	Every living soul should have constantly before
it some aim, some object in view that is attain-
able, and that is calculated to stimulate the en-
ergies and arouse the ambition and aspirations
that man is capable of exercising.
	Latent powers are but dead or hidden energies.
They must be started into life by the presentation
of considerations that shall seem both pleasure-
able and desirable,—something that has an
affinity with the soul and worthy of its most
zealous determinations. Something that shall be
a sure guide, a permanent landmark, or like the
buoy made fast in the channel of the deep; how-
ever rough may be the waves of the tempestuous
waters, is a sure guide to the port or haven de-
sired.
	The haven of rest to man is beyond; it is only
reached after riding the waves and billows of a
tempestuous life—a life of trials, often of extreme
sorrow. He needs a beacon light to his path that
shall be an anchor to his hopes, a dispeller of his
fears. Hopes may bud and bloom while here,
but the fruit will only ripen in the hereafter.
This is a preparatory state, a day of probation
in which to make ready for our appearance in the
next or future state. This fact is so universally
accepted by the almost entire race of man that it
needs no argument in proof. The very savages
of our race look forward with delight to the bliss
of the happy hunting grounds to be their portion
in the hereafter.
	For a familiar illustration let us say it is like a
dressing room where we are to go through all the
formula of preparing for a suitable appearance
in society—whether it be for the gaiety of the ball
room, or the more retired enjoyment of the society
of familiar friends. The preparation of the dress-
ing room includes all of personal cleanliness, fit
and elegance of attire,indeed every thing that shall
make more attractive the person who desires to
be recognized as one of taste and culture, with
that refinement which makes the presence of one
desirable and pleasing to another of like ex-
cellence and culture.
	Adornments of various kinds, both costly and
unique are sought after for such occasions, and if
we do not possess them we will oft-times forego
the desired pleasure, rather than appear in an un-
becoming manner. All this is considered essential
to the gaiety of the circle, and the brilliancy of
the apartments where the guests are invited to
participate in the favors of Royalty.
	We recognize the greatest propriety in all this,
as being entirely suited to our personal conduct
now as social beings, and we are led to ask:
when will it be less so?
	This being the day of our probation in which to
prepare for a glorious future,—for admission into
the presence of Celestial beings who are basking
in all the splendor of a Celestial Kingdom, and
the purity of a Divine Presence; we may well in-
quire if we are putting on those garments of
Praise that will make our society there as agree-
able as we strive to make it here.
	There must be no stain upon our garments
there. Purity demands that they be white and
spotless. There the spiritual is revealed and
comprehended. The spirit there must be clean
from sin, free from guilt, free from all that cor-
rupts:—from all immoral taint or impurity; re-
deemed from all that would be a reproach to the
immortal throng into whose presence we hope to
be ushered when bidden to the marriage supper
of the Lamb; when none will be permitted to re-
main who have not on a suitable wedding gar-
ment.
	To enter into and enjoy the Celestial presence
we must exchange this mortal for the immortal;
this human for the divine; this temporal for the
spiritual; that which is of man for that which is
of God.


The question now is are we getting suitably
clad, how fast are we putting on those adorn-
ments that will make us attractive there in that
gay throng of glorified ones? All must be done
here that will secure to us favor, love and glory
there.
	As the woman is not without the man in the
enjoyment of all these conditions that are to fill
the soul with that fulness of joy that is now un-
speakable, a very important feature of her pre-
paratory work will consist in forming no alliance
with any man who will not make it his first, his
highest and holiest consideration to so live as to
be worthy of admittance there with her as partner
to all that the soul may be capacitated to enjoy;
dwelling in the midst of purity—in the fulness of
a divine love, and in all the glory that comes from
a knowledge of God with His eternal favor.
	Let the daughters of Israel be so instructed,
that they will see to it, that there is no barrier,
no obstacle in their way by reason of their own
choice, that shall prevent their free entrance
through the pearly gates into the Holy City and
mansion of God's eternal presence.
	Woman's nature is averse to the vulgarity of
the vile. Her delicate and refined nature justifiies
her in declining the attentions of any man when
offered in duplicity and on degrading terms.
	The fair daughters of Israel may well decline—
indeed should refuse to listen to one whose mouth
is the cesspool of filthy weeds, of poisonous in-
toxicants, of lies and profanity; whose heart is
full of deceit and evil passions, devoid of love
or charity, and whose tongue is full of hypocrisy.
	When they will give no countenance to these
prevailing and ruling passions of the man, he will
forsake his vices and wickedness to gain the favor
of the fair and pure, and he will follow her back
to the paradise of heavenly joys; and she may
have the honor and glory of adding another gem
to the bright crown of their mutual and eternal
inheritance in love's dominion.
	Thus women may become "savior's upon
mount Zion" as well as men, and justly share in
the glory of his redemption, as well as with him
the burdens and trials of life socially, politically,
and religiously; all tending and resulting to the
glory of God, by and through the exaltations and
eternal life of man.
		S. W. RICHARDS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. PLEASANT GROVE.

	Pleasant Grove organized a W. S. A. March 15.
House called to order by Mrs. E. Brown, choir
sang, prayer by the Chaplain Mrs. E. Harper.
Officers duly elected Mrs. F. E. Stewart, Pres.
Vice Pres. Emily H. Bullock, Secretary Mrs. L.
Lund, Cor. Sec. Miss Amy Bosza, Treasurer Mrs.
E. Thorn, Executive Com. appointed. A lecture
"The Advancement of Woman," by Mrs. Rose
Hays. The speaker portrayed the necessity of
striving for our just rights and fitting ourselves
for any sphere we might be called to occupy.
Recitation "Barbara Fretchie," by Miss Clara
Stewart, Essay "Woman's Work," by Mrs. Lydia
Lund, speech by Mrs. E. Brown, instrumental
music by Libbie Mayhew, a lecture by Mrs. Ella
Smith, "Woman's Mind Equal to Man's." A
stirring speech by Mrs. M. A. Phelps, song by
Miss Eva Frampton, a speech by Mrs. M. A.
Winters, replete with many truths plainly eluci-
dated. A speech by Pres. Stewart in which the
object, aim and purpose of the meeting was set
forth.
		F. E. S.


U. W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	The Annual Convention of the National Ameri-
can W. S. A. of Utah Ter.; was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, Thursday April 3, 1890


commencing at 2 p. m. Mrs. S. M. Kimball in
the Chair. Prayer by the Chaplain Mrs. E. B.
Wells, minutes read and approved. Report of
Emery Co. W. S. A. by the President Mrs. S. A.
Fullmer. Mrs. E. Y. Stanford President of the
Ogden W. S. A. gave a brief report. Mrs. Susa
Y. Gates reported Utah Co. W. S. A. and made a
telling speech. Referred to the former President's
death and the consequent necessity of reorganiza-
tion, said they had endeavored to organize a civil
government class and to study divorce laws and
those relating specially to women. They held
parlor meetings and discussed these subjects.
They were to have a public debate on the 23rd of
April, the subject "Shall woman have the fran-
chise?" 540 members enrolled.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball commented upon the Com-
mon Law as it stood upon the Statute Books o
many of the States—that made woman the goods
and chattels of her husband etc., and the good
work accomplished by Mrs. Packard before
Legislatures, her success in getting this obnoxious
statute stricken out in many States and Terri-
tories.
	Morgan, Cache, Sanpete and Sevier Counties
not reported. Beaver Co. W. S. A. represented
by Mrs. S. C. Maeser, said they had songs
lectures, essays etc., members 40. Mrs. S. S.
Boyer of Springville W. S. A. reported 125 mem-
bers, they were studying municipal government,
with other subjects. She made a glowing speech
full of suggestions and pertinent with facts. Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young had recently visited Nephi and
gave a good report of the W. S. A. of Juab Co.
Lehi W. S. A. reported by Mrs. Josephine
Brown, 150 members, meetings held regularly,
study of civil government with an aim to gain
a political education.
	Prof. Alexander of Canada gave quite an elo-
quent address in which he set forth the absurdity
of women publicly ridiculing men etc. Thought
the ladies should strike out in new paths, said it
was impossible to legislate morals; the home
must be the center of these—home-rule is pro-
gressive.
	The Chairman Mrs. Kimball answered some
objectionable points in his remarks in a very
polite manner. Mrs. M. Y. Dougall gave an in-
teresting review of her trip to Washington with
Mrs. Kimball, related some pleasing incidents.
	Convention adjourned sine die.
		RACHEL EDWARDS, Sec'y.
	The officers of the W. S. A. the Delegates from
other places and some other ladies met after-
wards at Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie's and partook of
refreshments, joining in informal conversation
and asking questions on the subject of suffrage
etc.—Ed.


[Column 1]

LETTER TO MRS. H. W. WHITNEY.

EXTRACTS.

	I am sure, though I failed to reply to your
favor, as I should have done, you will still be-
lieve in my manifestations of friendship, and that
you will still continue to realize, in me, the
changeless elements of a true friend.—My family,
as well as myself were exceedingly glad to get
your photo', and it now finds a place in a beauti-
ful album, that reposes on a marble topped stand
in my front parlor. I take great pleasure in show-
ing it to frequent callers, and pleased to tell them
it is a fair representation of a real live "Mor-
mon" lady, one to whom I am greatly indebted
for favors when I called at her far Western home
some years ago.—I accept your excuse for delay
in writing—think it a laudable one, and I deeply
sympathize with you in your week and enfeebled
condition. If I never receive another line from
your pen, I shall still think you are my true, trust-
ing and devoted friend.

[Column 2]

	I am aware that you are deprived of the
pleasure of friendly correspondence to a large
degree, that your burden, in many respects, is not
a light one. The recent deaths in your family,
your bad state of health, the continued annoyance
and cruel treatment of your people by the pious
advocates of what I conceive to be a false system
of religion—all these are well calculated to rob
you of many of the chief pleasures of life, and
take away much of the glorious sunlight of ex-
istence.
	My son, who is now in college, is a close friend
and associate of the son of ex-Gov. Robinson, of
the Utah Commission—a man who evidently is no
favorite of the "Mormon" people. And Mr.
Robinson recently made the statement, that your
Church was a bitter enemy of the Government—
that all your pretense of loyalty was the most in-
fernal hypocrisy, and that certain of your
Church officials were bound by the most sacred
oaths to fight—in a certain way—for the total
annihilation of the sacred liberties of the Ameri-
can people. Now, Clarence, my son asked me
very particularly as to the truth of these state-
ments, and I referred him to a certain little article
I had in my possession written on the subject in
question, by your venerable President Mr. Wood-
ruff. I cannot, I will not accept such egregious
statements, for I see nothing in your past history
to indicate that you are antagonistic to Rupuli-
can institutions. One does not necessarily have
to be wedded to your faith to see the great in-
justice that is being done to your people. But it
has been the tendency of the Christian, as well
as other religions, to persecute for opinion sake;
and the present methods of persecution towards
"Mormonism" are no exception to the rule.
	When I was in the South, during the late war,
I frequently heard Christian ministers invoke
Deity to send death, destruction and unutterable
ruin to the usurpers of the North. I have also
heard them recommend the members of their
Church to take the bells from the towers, cast
them into cannons with which to blow to h—ll
the souls of all Yankee tyrants.
	When I came West to Indiana I listened to the
same thing from the ministers here.—And last
comes the great Talmage and recommends the
destruction of your people.
	I can't be a Christian—I can't tolerate the un-
warranted persecution of any sect, or creed,—I
believe in  universal, religious liberty, and the
same sacred rights for all people, and I have no
fears of the future, when the toils of a well-spent
life are ended. My religious philosophy may be
considered defective, but my aims and purposes
in this world are to do all the good I can for my
fellow men, and as little harm. If you could learn
my business life here from the poorer classes, you
would accept what I say as true. I control a
cash capital of $40,000 and not a cent is in the
hands of wealthy people, or speculators. It is al
used to assist those who are honest and needy. I
fear I have already worn out your patience, and
I must bring my letter to a close.—We have had
one of the most pleasant winters ever experienced
in this latitude. To day the fields are green as
early spring time, and it is warm and inspiring.
Would be pleased to hear from you soon—I occa-
sionally get copies of News and EXPONENT.
Please tell me of yourself and family, remember
me to Mrs. Wells, and believe me ever your
friend.
		W. H. B.


R. S. GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	The first Annual Conference of the Relief
Society of all the Stakes of Zion, was held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this City on
Monday, April 7, 1890 commencing at 10 a. m.
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding. On the


[Column 1]

stand with her were her Counselors Mrs. J. S.
Richards and Mrs. B. W. Smith, the Secretary
Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Treasurer Mrs. M. I.
Horne also the Cor Sec'y. Mrs. E. B. Wells and
Assistant Sec'y., Dr. R. B. Pratt. Presidents
of R. S. of the several Stakes of Zion were
seated in one of the stands.
	There was a large congregation of women with
a few men scattered here and there, Confer-
ence opened by singing,

	"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah."

	Prayer was offered by Mrs. M. I. Horne,
continued by singing,

	"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation."

	Minutes of the forenoon of last semi annual
Conference were read and approved. Pres.
Zina Young welcomed the congregation in her
most happy manner, said we were living in a
peculiar time, yet never felt better, realized the
beginning of the end was near at hand; felt so
anxious concerning the daughters of Zion, that
she would give her life, if it would save them
from the many snares and temptations sur-
rounding them at the present time. Asked
the sisters in the most earnest manner if any
of them had hard feelings towards another;
she would wait a few moments to give them
time for reflection;—sisters if you have hard
feelings waive them, put them away. It is our
duty to train the children that they may be
prepared for the work they will have to do
"We sorrow because of persecution, but God
reigns and all things will work together for
good for those that serve Him. He also rules
the elements, and the calamities that are now
coming have been predicted by His servants,
and we cannot avert them, any more than
Joseph of old could when he foresaw the
scourges that were coming upon his brethren;
he knew it but could not hinder it neither can
we. We mourn the conditions that have
brought about these things, and we desire to
assist in elevating humanity and bless the
world; we must learn to be charitable and to
love each other. Sisters remember sixty years
ago yesterday this Church was organized with
six members, in that first little meeting."
	Dr. Pratt then read a part of the statistical
and financial report from the several Stakes,
after which Mrs. S. M. Kimball made some
suitable remarks, sympathized with the au-
dience in having to listen to the report, but ex-
plained that it was a part of the labors of the
Relief Society. The Prophet Joseph said a
part of our labor was to learn to do business
in a parliamentary manner, it is not interesting
to all but it is an important matter.
	Pres. M. John R. S. Utah Stake gave a brief
report of the organizations and remarked that
she felt proud of the labors of the sisters, and
also spoke of the work they had done in silk
culture and felt to bless all.
	Pres. M. Pitchforth, R. S. Juab Stake, "we
have the gifts of the Gospel with us and if we
have not these we have "the still small voice,"
and we are striving to live the religion we
profess. We have been brought to this land
by the power of God;" said she was the first to
receive the Gospel in the town where she lived
when only fifteen years old, and she prayed
then for the faith that the Elders had who
preached to them, and her faith  had grown
with the years; "though we came to these
valleys a little handful we have become
a wealthy people, and our wealth increases,
may our faith also increase; I know God is at
the helm and He will guide the ship of Zion
safely," she felt with Sister Zina that these were
trying times but never felt better.
	Dr. Pratt finished reading the report which
was accepted.
	 Hon. A. Maitland Stenhouse Ex. Member of
Parliament from Canada, then addressed the
meeting by the invitation of the President. He
esteemed it a privilege to stand in the presence

[Column 2]

of so large an assembly of the saints, whose
history and whose works have constituted the
evolution of the kingdom of God: expressed
his belief in the divinity of the Prophet Joseph
and that the primitive Church was under the
direct influence of the Holy Ghost. Realized
that 1800 years the Church had been without
prophets and Apostles the true Church was
withdrawn and no representative of it was upon
the earth; admitted that there had been a
sublime power that had blest and elevated
humanity and that had lifted up the people
in one land after another, but the ministers of
the Latter-day Saints preach the Gospel every-
where without money and without price.
The speaker alluded in the most favorable
terms to the Rev. Edward Irving a dis-
tinguished Presdyterian who had made a wide
mark from all other preachers, and from this
teachings had grown up the Apostolic Catholic
faith. His was an earnest, eloquent nature.
He added many other remarks on this and
other subjects of interest.
	The Conference was adjourned until 2 p. m.
singing,

	"Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing."

	Benediction by Mrs. B. W. Smith.
	Afternoon session: singing,

	"Guide us O, Thou Great Jehovah."

Prayer by Mrs. Minerva W. Snow, singing,

	"How firm a foundation."

	Minutes of the evening session of the Con-
ference in October last read and accepted.
	Mrs. M. A. Hyde Pres. R. S. Sanpete Stake,
made the opening speech, said she had been
fifty years in the Church, and one year after 
she gathered with the Saints to Nauvoo; bore
testimony to the divinity of Joseph Smith's
mission and spoke concerning the divine truths
taught by him, of which she was a living wit-
ness; she also spoke earnestly upon charity,
thought we should stir up each other's minds
by way of remembrance. Relieving the wants
of the poor and comforting the sorrowful was
a great work and in it the sisters were blest;
spoke highly of the industry of the sisters in
Sanpete; they had been diligent in storing up
wheat, and performing the duties of the 
Society.
	Mrs. Adeline Barber Pres. of R. S. Cache
Stake, reported the organizations over which
she presided, praised the sisters for their good
works in the various duties devolving upon
them, rejoiced in her labors, and also that she
was a worker in the Temple, reported the
Canada branch of the Relief Society. Spoke
of the storing of grain and taking care of it,
some of the brethren did not see the necessity
of it, and it was very discouraging; felt we
were engaged in a great work, that the living
had the privilege of working for the dead.
	Mrs. Mary Jane Hendricks, Counselor in the
R. S. Oneida Stake, said they visited the settle-
ments and tried to encourage and help along
the several branches, spoke highly of the
President and bore a good testimony.
	Mrs. Ellen W. Lunt Pres. of R. S. Paro-
wan Stake represented in a very able manner
the situation in the few branches in that Stake;
felt happy in performing her duties, they had
good Presidents and an efficient corps of
teachers. In Cedar City they had made a
commencement in the silk-culture, and they
were much interested in the storing of grain.
Testified that the hand of the Lord had been
over her from childhood.
	Pres. Z. D. H. Young addressed the as-
sembly, spoke at some length upon cheerful-
ness, "it is through trials we gain the blessing
and when we are cheerful our trials are only
half as hard to bear; there is a sermon in the two
words, 'God rules.' President Brigham Young
had made  the remark if he had another
family to raise he would have his wives and

[Column 3]

children pay their own tithing, it would be
giving practical lessons upon the principle,"
urged mothers to teach their children these
things early in life. The speaker then gave
some special instruction to the Relief Society
applicable in all its branches in the several
Stakes of Zion and specially denounced raffl-
ing under all circumstances; gave some ex-
cellent suggestions in regard to nursing the
sick. The President spoke upon the im-
portant position the teachers occupy, and that
their labors were such as required the prompt-
ings of the Holy Spirit, said there need be no
President over the teachers except the Presi-
dent of the Society. Exhorted mothers to be
like angels in the household—to bring love to
all, and kindness; we should love each other
and our God; the world drives us to love each
other, we are shut out from them; more than
a thousand wives and mothers, whose husbands
cannot associate with them on account of the
enforcement of the special laws made for us.
It used to be said that those who sub-
dued the earth and caused the grass to grow
on desert land were philanthropists, but this
people do these things and yet are condemned.
Alluded to the report which was read in the
morning, and spoke of the little nucleus out of
which this magnificent result had grown; re-
ferred to keeping the Sabbath day holy; spoke
encouragingly to those that had come long dis-
tances, and alluded to the example of the
Savior and his appearing to Mary and Martha
after his resurrection, prayed for the blessing
of the Lord upon all, that we might work to-
gether in joy and peace and success crown our
labors.
	Mrs. L. M. Hart Counselor in R. S. Bear
Lake Stake, reported the sisters there alive to
their duties, and doing all the good possible,
there is a minority not diligent but the ma-
jority are. "There are 16 branches in the Stake
including Soda Springs, Pres. Lindsey is un-
tiring in her labors. Pres. Budge gives the
sisters much encouragement. We are seldom
visited by the sisters from Salt Lake City;
though we have Sister Horne occasionally
and we appreciate it." Bore a strong testimony
and knew all would be well with those who
perform their duties faithfully.
	Mrs. Annie W. Larson Pres. of R. S. Emery
Stake, said she tried to go round the Stake
regularly, they tried to sustain the poor and
help the missionaries; they were not a wealthy
people but were willing to divide; it was not a
grain country, yet the sisters had laid up some,
she knew this was the kingdom of God; they
had received good counsel from brethren and
sisters who had visited them.
	Mrs. Susan Grant, Pres. of Davis Stake
spoke highly of the Presidents and sisters in that
locality; said the President of the Stake and
his Counselors met with them in the Conferences
and gave them good counsel and instruction,
urged the mothers to teach their children the
principle of tithing and also to instil faith
into their young and tender minds; thought
much responsibility rested upon the mothers.
	Mrs. Ann Tate Cor. Sec'y., of R. S. Tooele
Stake gave a good report of the labors of the
sisters in that vicinity and added some farther
remarks testifying of the work in which we
are engaged.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards, Counselor to the
President Mrs. Young, realized that the meet-
ing had been a long one and yet there were a
few items to be touched upon, hoped we should
all think over what had been said about
cheerfulness and not only receive it but re-
member it, and do all things with a cheerful
heart; let us all try and live here so we can
have a few friends to welcome us on the other
side, if she failed in that she would want to 
come back. "We had a big report read here
 to-day of the condition of the Relief Society,
and there is a great work being accomplished,


We are all trying to assist in it. I have heard
here to-day in the reports from some of the
Presidents that they only hold Conferences
semi annually; President Young organized the
Weber Stake Relief Society just shortly before
his death and appointed Quarterly Conferences;
soon afterwards he went to Brigham City and
Mr. Richards and I went with him, he insisted
on my going, said he had many things he
wanted to talk to me about, and in his con-
versation he always said Quarterly Confer-
ences, and my mind is that we keep up the
Conferences Quarterly, we need these meetings
for our spiritual benefit; and I must say I feel
bad when the sisters don't take care of their
wheat, it is a duty laid upon us to store grain,"
and Pres. Taylor made the remark to me that
he would not dare to use the wheat nor do
anything with it, Pres. Woodruff had used the
same expression when spoken to concerning it.
The speaker then referred to the Primary As-
sociation, and said "that is one of the best in-
stitutions we have, and we Relief Society
folks are grandmothers to the Primaries, if we
are not mothers to the Young Ladies, we
should do all in our power to help the Primary
and encourage those who have charge of them
and labor so diligently. Sisters we need to 
take more care of our health, don't work all
the time; some say they have two meetings a
month and one of them a working meeting;
now sisters we must not over work, go and visit
the Primary and the Young Ladies' mettings,
it is a great labor spiritually and may the
Spirit of the Lord help us to perform all our
duties, and live uprightly that we may minister
to the needy and comfort and encourage those
who are weak and bowed down with sorrow,
a kind word is always good for all, may we
profit by the good things we have heard and 
be able to overcome, is my prayer."
	Mrs. M. I. Horne Pres. R. S. Salt Lake
Stake, reported briefly, she had visited nearly
all the branches in this Stake during the last
few months; spoke of the Young Ladies' Asso-
ciations and the Primaries and the good work
being done in these organizations; said the
last Primary Conference in this hall was the
largest that had ever assembled here; thought
that the spiritual and temporal blessings could
not be separated, they went together, even in
building Temples and officiating therein.
	The congregation sang two verses of the
hymn,

	"The spirit of God like a fire is burning"

	The Cor. Sec'y., then read the written reports
received from the following Stakes, Bannock,
Cassia, Maricopa, Snowflake, St. Joseph's, San
Luis, St. George, Kanab, Beaver, and Sevier.
Mrs. Young and Mrs. Kimball each made
brief remarks. The congregation rose and
sung the Doxology and the benediction was
pronounced by Mrs. M. A. Hyde, the Confer-
ence adjourned for six months.
		E. B. W. Cor. Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S MIND EQUAL TO MAN'S.

	America has been richly blessed in its women
of patriotism, intelligence, usefulness, and
moral worth. It has been a marvel to many
in the Old World that the women of the New
World have been, in so many instances, so
thoroughly cultured, so admirably developed,
morally and intellectually, when they have
lived amid so much that was new and crude
in society.
	A cultured Christian lady, living in her
beautiful Scottish home, once wrote, "It seems
to me that by the freedom of America I was
lifted up to a higher and a diviner life and a
tender and reverent expectation of glorious
possibilities for our race and especially that
of woman."

[Column 2]

	The record of the noble lives of women in
our broad land during the century of American
Independence will prove that though society
may have been imperfect in many respects,
yet, propriety and growth consists ever with a
righteous freedom, a true liberty, which is
under holy law.
	Others may write or speak eloquently of
patriots, inventors, warriors, and other public
men but we should be abundantly satisfied if
we may so present the truth about American
women as to prove that the nation is indebted
for its growth and prosperity as a people and
for its proud position among the nations of
the earth to its women as well as to its men.
	But ere we proceed further let us learn
what woman is, "Every woman is a daughter
of Almighty God as every man is His son.
Each was created in the divine image and
for each the path of duty and destiny is the same.
As the sky bends over both, so around His sons
and His daughters, alike the Almighty places
the arm of His protecting love. He has given
them varied labors but the same capacities
for intellectual social, and moral advancement.
He has given to neither power over the other,
man was not made subject to woman nor
should woman be subject to man. Neither
man's rights nor woman's rights should be
considered, but human rights—the rights of 
each, the rights of all."
	Men and women rise or fall together.
History clearly shows that no nation can en-
slave its women but it insures its own barbarism.
In proportion as society advances in culture,
women are freed from an unholy tyranny,
and, in that righteous freedom, are able to do
much for the world's advancement. Every
civilized nation owes much to its women. The
progress of every nation is marked by the ad-
vancment of its women.
	We cannot forget that woman has had for
ages, to advance with man along the path of
savagery and struggle up with him, to the
present era of Christianity. And as we glance
along the pathway of vanished centuries, we
cannot fail to see that every step of human
progress, from brutal savagism to this exalted
state of civilization, the result of mental and
moral culture, which is enjoyed in Europe
and America, has been accompanied by the
loosening of the chains of selfishness and the
thraldom in which too often the soul is held by
animal propensities, and thus woman has ad-
vanced to a loftier position and to a happier
sphere.
	There are but few who will not allow that
feminine characteristics are of a finer nature
than those that are purely masculine; at least
the naturally kind disposition of the woman's
heart has been contrasted to that of the man's
sometimes, with seeming justice, to the dis
paragement of the latter.
	We find a fitting illustration of this in the
conduct displayed by women on the occasion
of the great tragedy of Calvary. "Men alone
clamored for the blood of Jesus. No woman's
voice, thank God was heard among the clamor.
A man betrayed him and for a very gross,
material consideration. A man condemned
him to death; the man's wife, in greater pity,
begged that his life might be spared. Men
heartlessly deserted him in the hour of his
trial. Of his chosen friends and disciples, the
men, in a cowardly manner, ran away and
left him in the hands of his destroyer.
Woman followed him shedding tears of sym-
pathy and pity. Woman alone pressed her
way to the very foot of the cross, and there
poured out her prayers and tears in behalf of
the world's dying martyr. Woman embalmed
his precious body. Woman first greeted him
when he burst the bonds of death and triumphed
over the grave.

	"Not she with traitorous lips the Master stung:
	Not she denied him with a liar's tongue;

[Column 3]

	She when Apostles fled, had power to brave,
		Last at the cross, and earliest at the grave."

	'Twas woman who was first commissioned to
go and proclaim the glad tidings of his resu-
rection, And woman to day stands among the
foremost in her Master's work—a true
disciple and among the purest representatives of
His divine life the world affords.
	One great writer says, "In proportion as
woman is elevated and promoted will the
divine will of Jesus prevail; and in the ratio
that that prevails will women be lifted out of
her subject state." He goes on to picture the
future of the world when the woman of coming
centuries shall do fully the work God has given
them to do. "I have no doubt," said he, "but
am fully persuaded, that emancipated, en-
lightened, and enfranchised, she will be equal
to the demand. Commissioned by the Great
Father and clothed in the armor of affection,
she will go forth to conquer the world with 
the sword of the spirit. The shining hosts of
heaven will enlist under her banner of love
and Christ himself will lead the way. The
whole world will surrender to her divine com-
mand, and before her triumphant march the
powers of darkness flee. Prisons will be
transformed into schools, and saloons and
brothels be turned into markets and homes of
purity. Inebriates will shake off the demon
spell that enslaves them, and stand erect in
their manhood. Oppression's yoke will be
broken, and the clanking chains of the captive
be heard in the land no more forever. Navies
will be turned into ships of commerce, and
the implements of death be beaten into the
the implements of life."
	Tracing the path of Scripture record we find
the women of Israel often the chosen instru-
ments of God to teach and exhort His people.
Deborah was given the sweet and tender title
of "Mother in Israel." So beautiful in char-
acter, so noble in life, her genius was superior
to any recorded in the history of the Hebrews,
and she alone has escaped unreproved by
prophets and historians. Others might be
mentioned such as Queen Esther, Naomi, and
Ruth but time will not permit us to dwell longer
on this subject.
	Next let us take the annals of profane
history. Go back in imagination to ancient
Greece and Rome. There we find the beauti-
ful Lucretia and the excellent Cornelia com-
mended to all the world. Indeed, Cicero said,
"Had Cornelia not been a woman she would
have deserved the first place among philoso-
phers." Had she not been a Woman! 'Tis
ever thus. Woman is not permitted or allowed
her rights simply because she bears the noble
name of woman.
	Again let us not forget to mention the noble
women of Sparta. Heroines every one of them.
The Spartan soldiers, were exceptionally brave
because they had such heroic mothers. A
Spartan son who was about to depart for the
battle field, was handed his sword by his
mother with the words "Return it as a conquor
or a corpse." Thus proving that she prefered
death to cowardice.
	Take for instance the life of the Empress
Josephine of France. Had Napoleon taken
her advice he never would have lost the famous
battle of Waterloo or have been banished a
prisoner to St. Helena. Her mind far sur-
passed his. Still speaking of the heroic women
of France let us briefly review the wonderful
act of Charlotte Corday who stabbed the enemy
of her country to the heart and then suffered
death on the scaffold. Even after her head
had been severed from her body and one of
the executioners made an insulting action by
holding it up and slapping the pure cheek, the
beautiful eyes of Charlotte opened, 'tis stated,
and cast a look of indignation on the brute, thus
proving (should the statement be true, and
'tis made on good authority) that consciousness


[Column 1]

﻿had survived even the separation of the head
from the body. What mind can we find that
was greater than hers? What man has ever
performed a more courageous act than Charlotte
Corday?
	England with its marvelous historic and
classic treasures owes much to its women.
We will mention but two to day. First, the
good queen Victoria. She who has ruled for
over half a century and has had a more peace-
ful reign than any preceding monarch. She
has shown more wisdom and intelligence in
governing her people than any man who ever
held the sceptre. History also tells us that
England owes much of its present prosperity
to Queen Elizabeth, whose mind was equal if
not superior to any of the English rulers
	Spain next presents itself to our view. Of
course, we at once think of Isabella. Yes; and
had it not been for this excellent woman,
Columbus might never have discovered
America. He had asked assistance at almost
every court in the land but had been refused
by all of them. Almost ready to give up in
despair, he went to Isabella who possessing a
rarer and more intelligent mind. stepped for-
ward and extended a helping hand to the
great man to whom we owe so much.
	But it is reserved for America to show to
the world the rarest excellence of woman in
the exercise of the largest and truest liberty
the world has ever known.
	Those brave old pioneer women, Widow
Storey for instance. "After her husband had
been killed, she undertook the task of clearing
a farm on which she might rear and support
her ten fatherless children." And this bold
resolution she carried out to the letter, in
spite of every difficulty, hardship, and danger
which for years constantly beset her in her
solitary location in the woods. Acre after
acre of the dense and dark forest melted away
before the axe, which she handled with the
dexterity of the most experienced chopper."
She used the rifle, with unerring aim, and
supported her hardy brood of children, pro-
tecting them from the Indians and wild beasts
of the New England forest.
	It is said that when the Pilgrims first landed
at Plymouth Rock a beautiful young maiden,
May Chilton, was the first to step on the snow-
clad rocks of the New World. 'Twas in the
"Mayflower" that 18 faithful wives sailed from
their own beautiful homes to the one inhabited
only by the wily and vengeful savage." On the
unfloored hut, she who had been nurtured amid
the rich carpets and curtains of the mother-
land rocked her babe and complained not.
Pounded the coarse Indian corn for her child-
ren's bread, and bade them ask God's blessing
ere they took their scanty portions. When
the snows sifted throughhe miserable roofs
and fell upon her little ones, she gathered them
closer to her bosom; taught them the Bible
and the Holy Hymns, though the whoop of
the savage rang through the forest. She in-
fused new life into her husband by her firm-
ness and solaced his weary hours with her
love.
	While the Nation honors the Pilgrim
Fathers let it not fail to give due reverence to
the memory of the Pilgrim Mothers. May the
pages of history blaze with the glory of their
spotless fame.
	Who has not heard of Hannah Duston?
When she and her babe were taken captive by
the Indians and marched away from her
friends and family, her heart agonized by her
approaching fate, yet she was brave and de-
termined and planned her escape. She watched
until the Indian braves had fallen asleap,
then, with her nurse, she stole with her toma-
hawk and striking vigorously and fleetly' soon
10 out of the 12 sleeping braves lay dead
before her and another mortally wounded.
Then taking the scalps as trophies of her

[Column 2]

victory, she decended the river in a bark canoe
to the English settlements. Her daring deed
has filled all the world with wonder and ad-
miration. Let me only ask "What man has
ever performed a more heroic act the that of
Hannah Duston?
	We must not forget the mother of our
great president George Washington. 'Twas
she who trained her son in noble simplicity
and was best pleased when she saw him good
rather than great. A famous European,
after gazing on her for a few moments said;
"If such are the women of America it is no
wonder the sons are so illustrious." Her
handsome monument bears only the simple
words, "Mary the mother of Washington."
	Now let us briefly present the women of the
Revolution. Elizabeth Martin, who with the
spirit of a Spartan said to her seven brave sons
who were about to depart for the battle-field.
"Go my brave sons. Fight for your country.
Fight till death if you must, but never let
your country be dishonored. Were I a man
I would go with you."
	Anna Warner, Grace Martin and Major
Molly who, when her husband was killed took
his place at the cannon and remained until the
loud hurrahs of freedom burst on the air. The
poet has truly said.

	"Proud were they by such to stand,
	In hammock, fort, and glen; 
	To load the sure old rifle,  
	To run the leaden ball,
	To watch a battling husbands's place,
	And fill it, should he fall"

Hundreds of names of illustrious women could
be mentioned who fought for our freedom
and whose bravery and valor entitle them to
honorable remembrance. Their names should
stand side by side with those who signed the
Declaration of Independence, and pledged to
the cause of liberty, "their lives their fortunes
and their sacred honor."
	Who can deny that the wives of the presi-
dents have done more for intellectual and
moral advancment than the presidents them-
selves. The wives of our greatest senators and
presidents have made their husbands what
they are. Women have ever been the leaders
of society and on them depends what our social
position is.
	The women in the Civil War were a noble
band. Many heroic deeds were done and many
lives sacrificed for the government of liberty
and law.

"Whispered low the dying soldier pressed her hand and
	faintly smiled;
Was that pitying face his mother’s? did she watch beside
	her child?
All his stranger words with meaning her woman’s heart
	supplied,
With her kiss upon his forhead "Mother" murmured he
	and died,"

	Women as "philanthropists have surpassed
men. An instance is related of Dorothea L.
Dix who was called "the prisoner's friend." On
one occasion this lady was cautioned not to ap-
proach a raving maniac. He yelled fright-
fully day and night and was so violent that it
was supposed he would murder any one who
ventured within his reach. She approached
with the Bible and read in a low, sweet tone to
him,—he paused, his shouts gradually subsided
and when she ceased he uttered, "Read me
some more, it does me good, Lady, God sent
you." Some one making a slight noise attracted
his attention, and he exclaimed "Hush! hush!
there are angels with us." What mind of man
has ever had more power over the insane than
the one posessed by this gentle woman.
	The literary women have been equal and
many have surpassed men. Her works have
been written with a more attractive inspired
pen. No poems can surpass those of our own
great Eliza R. Snow Smith. We might

[Column 3]

mention scores of them if time would
permit.
	As lecturers, reformers, preachers, educators,
physicians, readers, actors and singers, as
printers, lawyers, inventors, journalists, in fact
in every vocation of life woman's mind has
equalled man's.

"Read the fresh annals of our land the gathering dust of
	time
Nor yet has fallen on the scroll to dim the tale sublime;
There woman's glory proudly shines, for willingly she gave
Her costliest jewels to uphold the generous and the brave,
Who fought her country's battle well and oft she periled
	life
To save a brother, father, friend, in thise dark years of
	strife,
Whatever strong-armed man hath wrought; whatever he
	hath won,
That goal hath woman also reached, that action she hath
	done."
		ELLA F. SMITH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TICKETS
﻿ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH 
---AT---
UNION TICKET OFFICE
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
	 J. V. PARKER,
		Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.
R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st SouthSt.,
SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found th[-] latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS,  GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 18.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1890. 	NO. 23.


CONTENTS.
	An Item of Experience,—J. P. Hephzibah
True Education,—Ida Hoag. Prayer.—E. A.
Crane Watson. The Privileges and Rights of
Women,—Sarah S. Boyer. R. S. Reports,—
Uintah—Sanpete. Notes and News. Miscella-
neous.
	EDITORIAL:—The Situation in Utah. Editorial
Notes. Mrs. Pfeifer's Will.
	POETRY:—" 'Twere Better So,"—Lula. Trust
in God,—Israel. Nature,—Dr. E. S. Barney.


"'TWERE BETTER SO!"

	"'Twere better so—'twere better so!"
		I would not clasp the idol now,
	Which brought my youthful heart such woe,
		Such clouds of grief to my young brow.

	Though curbed by doubts and fraught with pain,
		Half hopeful dread could bliss impart;
	The dream was fair and shall remain
		A sweet, sad memory in my heart.

	A tree by storms torn from its roots,
		Transplanted, nursed by tender hands,
	May offer richer flowers aud fruits,
		And hardier grow in milder lands.

	My beautiful, my bright ideal,
		No longer will I deem thee false,
	The image of a brighter real,
		Thy presence strengthens and exalts.

	When sorrow's troubled sea I've crossed,
		No darkening shadows will appal—
	'Twere better to have loved and lost,
		Than never to have loved at all."

			LULA


AN ITEM OF EXPERIENCE.

	Being quite a reader of the Exponent and
taking quite an interest in the good pieces
that are published, I thought I would not al-
together shirk out of telling a little of my ex-
perience in this Church and Kingdom. I have
been with this people almost as long as any
one living at the present time, I was baptized
the 8th day of March 1836, in Hounsfield
Jefferson Co,, N. Y., emigrated to Kirtland
the next spring in '37, have been with this
people since that time, have passed through in
common with my brethren and sisters all the
drivings and mobbings up to the present time;
notwithstanding our trials the Lord has been
with this people and given them strength ac-
cording to their day, has blest them with His
Holy Spirit and given comfort in time of
trouble.
	I bear testimony to the truth of this Gospel
that was delivered to Joseph Smith the
Prophet.
	We live in the day when the same Gospel is
taught to the people on the earth, as was
taught in the days of the Savior and His
Apostles, the power of God has been made
manifest in the healing of the sick, I have seen
the sick healed by the administration of the
laying on of hands, by those holding the
priesthood, I have been healed myself when
all around me supposed me to be breathing
my last. I was restored by the power of God


through the administration of the laying on
of hands.
	Sisters let us strive to live our religion, keep
all of our covenants made at the waters of
baptism, be kind to each other, never mind the
trials we are passing through, let us try to keep
the Spirit of God and He will bring us off
conquerors' through our Lord and Savior
Jesus Christ.
		J. P.
Salt Lake City Apr. 30, 1890.


[Column 1]

HEPHZIBAH.
XX.

	O, happy youth, how beautiful it seems—
		Without a care,—and all its bright array
	Of glorious visions—where the future gleams
		In rainbows tinst, o'er-arching all the way.

	The young bride found her position as a
daughter-in-law very irksome. She had never
really been controlled, she had been guided,
sometimes restrained, but absolute control she
had never known. Mrs. Harvey was imperi-
ous,she never allowed anyone to exercise their
freedom; husband, sons, daughter-in-law, all
must submit to her. Hepsie discovered this
fact in the first few days after her marriage,
and determined to resist the authority of a
mother-in-law.
	"I will not be spoken to as your mother
addresses me, I have never been accustomed
to such treatment, I shall rebel against all such
authority, I would rather go out and teach
and earn my own living than be under her
control," said the young wife to Harold a few
days after the marriage.
	"My darling; mother does not mean to be
harsh with you, she only wants you to conform
to her ways and be more womanly, and not
pine after your mother and your own old home
and all that sort of sentiment, she don't com-
prehend it, but one thing is sure, she shall not
interfere with you—we'll go on a wedding tour
and avoid all this and by the time we come
back perhaps she'll have changed her views,"
said the young bridegroom.
	"But Harold where can we go? I cannot
go among my friends, they've all discarded
me on account of Mormonism, and now your
father says we are not to start for Nauvoo
until Spring. O, how I wish we were going
now, I'm sick of waiting, out there we could
have a house of our own, if it were built of
logs, and we should be so happy, if we could
only be left alone."
	"Hepsie, my dear, I can fix all this. I'll
speak to mother. She must not make you un-
comfortable. And we'll have the wedding
tour any way. I know where to go, and there
will be lots of parties in town this Winter and
we shall have a jolly time."
	Poor little Hepsie, she had no idea what a
jolly time meant to Harold, though he was her
husband. However, time went by quickly,
and one party after another was given, to
which Harold and his young wife were invited,
and always attended, but Hepsie had no en-
joyment whatever in these things. She longed
for the springtime to come when they could
start for Nauvoo, she was entirely out of her
element, and she could not be content.
	The wedding tour as they called it was taken 
in mid-winter, and Hepsie really enjoyed that,
a handsome sleigh, a fine horse and full strings
of new bells, and only herself and Harold, who

[Column 2]

knew all about driving, and the cold frosty air
as they flew over the snow from village to
village, and town to town was exhilarating.
	Our modern young ladies would think this
a very primitive wedding tour, and so it was,
but happiness does not consist in a costly
trousseau, or elegant wedding presents, or even
a trip to Paris, though that is very delightful;
but Hepsie fully enjoyed this Winter pastime
of sleigh riding and visiting Harold's relatives,
uncles, aunts and cousins by the dozens, old
fashioned folks with college-bred sons, and Acad-
emized daughters living in country homes with
every convenience and ample entertainment
for dozens, or scores of guests, and the hearty
welcome with which they were everywhere
greeted by the Spooners, the Danforths, the
Merrimans, and others, some living in Massa-
chusetts, some in Vermont, and others in Con-
necticutt.
	The quaint places and funny stories of re-
lationships, and the vivid descriptions of "the
good old days" of the past pleased Hepsie,
and in the long Winter evenings she would sit
and listen to the lively conversation, for as
they traveled from one place to another, the
evenings were the times of social intercourse,
and goodly cheer withal, and she would
imagine all those tales told over again in books,
as she had once expected, to gather up just such
material to write her novels.
	Very little was ever said about religion, for
the Harvey's relatives though they were
numerous, were not religious, and Harold,
though he had been baptized, knew less about
Mormonism than Hepsie, and she, though
convinced and somewhat earnest and naturally
spiritual had never received a strong testimony.
It was quite understood everywhere they went,
that Harold and his wife were going to Nauvoo
early in the spring, but they met no prejudice,
and in fact the cousins' generally said, "O,
how I wish we were going out to the Far
West, too." Illionois, then, to these New Eng-
land people seemed such a long way towards
the setting sun
	This bridal trip occupied nearly a month,
and when they returned the house was all con-
fusion with packing boxes, chests, trunks, etc.
Mrs. Harvey, the mother-in-law. was much
annoyed that Harold had been away so long
when there was so much to be done, "and
besides" she she, "the horse and sleigh are to
be sold, and it is too late now to get a good
price for a sleigh, you're just like the Har-
vey's," she added addressing Harold, you
know how to spend means, but not how to save,
you don't take after the Spooners at all.
	Hepsie trembled. She knew Mrs. Harvey
would have something to say to her, and she
immediately resolved to defend her position.
Alas, for Hepsie. Mrs. Harvey waited until
Harold had left the room and then commenced
a tirade of abuse such as she was accustomed
to use in scolding her two bound girls, orphans
they were and Hepsie had frequently befriended,
them when their tasks were over-hard. If this
were an essay instead of a story; one might
moralize on the condition of children "bound
out," until they are of age; but to return to
Hepsie. Mrs. Harvey began, "I've no patience
with such love sick nonsense as you've put
into Harold's head, you are only children any
way, and ought to be told what to do. You,
Mrs. Harvey, as you think yourself could have
overlooked Hattie and Maria and the cook if
you had stayed at home, though, for that


matter you make the cook more extravagant,
but I can't tolerate idleness in my son’s wife,
besides you’re making him think, that writing
verses and singing songs, is of more consequence
than earning your own living. Harold isn’t
of age and he shall not have a cent of our
money to waste on you ; I expect both of you
to do your part now, and after we go to
Nauvoo; your being delicate will not excuse
you from doing your share."
	This was more than Hepsie expected and as
she could not answer for crying "she flounced
up stairs," as Mrs. Harvey told Harold after-
wards "without any ceremony."    Harold
found his wife in tears as usual, but he also
learned "that she would not and could not any
longer stay there."  "What will you do he
asked?"  "I shall go home," she replied, "if
you choose to take me, very well, if not, I will
walk, its only five miles, and I prefer to go
through the woods alone, to being here in the
midst of luxury."
	Harold was sure she meant to go, so he in-
formed his mother that Hepsie was going home
to stay until the time of the departure for the
anticipated journey; Hepsie could hear what
passed between them, all the sharp words on
both sides, but she did not relent; finally with
the most bitter tone Mrs. Harvey added, "its a
great pity you didn't marry your cousin Mary,
she was desperately in love with you; and its
plain to be seen Hepsie is not in love, or she
would have been jealous of Mary, when you
paid her so "much attention." Mrs. Harvey
knew very well when she made this stinging
speech, that she had planted a thorn in the
heart of Harold at least, and she hoped in
Hepsie's too. She knew Harold loved his wife,
moreover, she had urged the marriage, she
had promised to be a mother to the girl, who
had at least made some sacrifice in marrying,
even if the Harvey's were better off, as she
was often reminded by the mother in law.
It is not our intention to go into the particulars
in regard to all that transpired, but on a
beautiful day early in the month of April,
when the birds in the groves were singing their
matin melodies, Hepsie bade a long and last
farewell to the dear old places she loved so
much and nevermore expected to see. Her
mother and the younger children were intend-
ing to gather with the Saints early in the fall
of the same year; this fact alleviated some-
what the pain of parting with them. The
older brothers and sisters were married (save
one brother) and lived some distance away, so
she did not see them to say good-bye, these
farewells would have been sad as they dis-
approved her course, and she was not equal to
the strain upon her nervous system. The
Thanksgiving previous they had all met in the
old home, and even then a presentiment per-
vaded them that they would never all meet
again.
Hepsie tried to be brave when she turned to
take leave, but the tears would fall––and she
realized in a slight degree that she was going
forth to encounter unknown difficulties, yet
believed she had a strong arm to lean upon.
A private conveyance took them to Springfield,
Mass. where the party numbering between
forty and fifty people were waiting at the 
station for the train to Albany. They were 
nearly all strangers to Hepsie and almost to
each other, and Hepsie felt her heart fail as
she gazed round for one encouraging look. It
seemed to her there was not a sympathetic face
to be seen. Harold's mother cast upon her a
withering glance, it was the first time they
had met since that unfortunate day when the
young couple returned from their journey.
Mrs. Harvey calculated Harold's wife would
come to her and make things right, but she
kept her distance, seldom a word passed
between them, and then in the most common-
place way. The trip to Albany was rapid and
the company stayed over night at a hotel, and
indeed it was late the next day before they
were on board the Erie canal boat bound for
Buffalo. Traveling in those days at the best
was not what it is to-day with every conveni-
ence and luxury possible to reach  by the in-
ventive genius and skill of man. After reach
ing Buffalo, N. Y., which took nine days, the
rest of the journey was by steamboat, making
several changes at points on the way.
	A description of the journey, incidents and
scenery, and also the company would be very
interesting, but we must hasten to finish the
story without much detail. Friends met the
Saints at the Upper landing, at Nauvoo, and
the company dispersed. Some of the party
had been very attentive and kind to young
Mrs. Harvey, among them an old maid from
New Haven, who seemed lonely herself and 
even more homesick than Hepsie: she used to
say, "poor little thing you're only a child not
fit to be married, your husband knows little
more than yourself–and as for his mother, she
hasn't a spark of human feeling." Hepsie
would not open her heart even to Miss B., she
accepted her attentions and tasted her deli-
cacies, but was as silent as the grave in regard
to her own feelings. When the company
separated, each to go in different directions,
Hepsie lost sight of the friends who had been
the kindest and tenderest upon the journey.
She was so ill and homesick that anything at
all was too much for her to endure, she could
scarcely think for herself. Harold had waited
upon her, had anticipated almost her every
wish, had carried her in his arms often, and
when worn out with fatigue she had fainted, he
would call the Elders to administer to her.
No husband could be more gentle or more
thoughtful. Yet the child's heart was almost
broken.
The Harvey's had relatives in Nauvoo and
went direct to their home. Here the subject
was always the Gospel and Hepsie listened
intently to the conversation. Her spirits
revived somewhat on reaching the city of
Nauvoo, and her faith was greatly strengthened.
She immediately felt the influence that per-
vaded the holy city. The very first evening
after their arrival the principle of tithing was
referred to and Mrs. Harvey inquired "will we
be required to pay one-tenth of all we have to
the Church?" Her sister replied emphatically,
"Yes, it is for the building of the temple and
other public purposes." "Well, I shall not
consent to it," replied Mrs. Harvey, "Elias
will of course, he would have given away all
he had before now if I had not prevented it.
Don't tell him its the law, I'll see to it he shall
not do it!"
	Hepsie had always felt Mrs. Harvey was not
true to her integrity and now she seemed to
comprehend her ultimate apostacy.
	Their first Sunday in Nauvoo, Joseph the
Prophet preached, and Hepsie knew the 
moment he stepped upon the platform, and she
saw his magnificent presence, and the influence
he brought with him upon the whole congrega-
tion, that he was in very deed a Prophet of
God.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TRUE EDUCATION.
[An essay read at the young ladies meeting
in Woodland Ward April 1st.]
Education is a subject which is dear to every
true lady or gentleman no matter to what re-
ligious denomination they may belong. There is
the education of the heart and the education of
the mind,unless both are cultivated we have not
the real education that is necessary in life.
Education brings joy and happiness if sought
after with a pure humble spirit, it makes the
true lady or true gentleman; it is a good
campanion for us in our hours of solitude aud
retirement; by it we gain food for thought and
reflection thereby broadening our minds and
expanding our views.
How great the thirst for knowledge after we
have fully realized its sweet savoriness,after we
have attained this intense craving appetite,like
the wine-bibber after his wine we are never
satisfied, but dive deeper into the founts of
knowledge continually learning every moment
of our lives.
Our religion teaches us to be onward and
upward in the paths of learning, and to me it
seems we cannot become good Latter Day
aints, unless we satisfy this craving within us
for knowledge, this desire for intelligence.
How pleasant it is to be in the society, if only
for a short time, with an educated refined and
cultivated soul; the sweet influence is felt for
along time after, (quoting from the poet
Longfellow)
'"When’er a noble deed is wrought.
Where’er is spoken a noble thought,
Our hearts in glad surprise
To higher levels, rise.

The tidal wave of deeper souls.
Into our inmost being rolls
And lifts us unawares,
Out of all meaner cares,

Honor to those whose words or deeds,
Thus helps us in our daily needs,
And by their overflow	
Raise us from what is low."

This poem was most forcibly brought to my
mind as I listened to one of our Apostles at
the late Conference in Heber City. I wondered
how the young people could but be impressed
as they listened to the divine truths pouring
from his mouth, his exhortation and entreaty
for them to shun all evil, and to live in such
a way that they might be able to meet their
Creator at the great day of Judgment with a
clear conscience
True education teaches us to be pure and
humble, to be the lady or gentleman at all
times. Some may say, I have not the advan
tages that I ought to have, there is no use my
trying to learn. To such persons I would say
pause and reflect. Is this really so? Has not
your Creator endowed you with a mind ca-
pable of understanding? How many moments,
hours, aye whole evenings have we not spent
in wild hilarity, mirth and dancing in which
there is no knowledge to be gained.
Another one may say “I am too old there is
no use of my beginning now; ’ To such a one I
would say many of our gifted women and men
of the world have begun actual work at middle
age,and have passed through a brilliant career
ere death has overtaken them. I have heard
many a pretty young girl or a bright promis-
ing young boy, give utterance to words some-
thing similar to this “I do not mean to study,
I mean to have a good time while I can,” I
often wonder if from such parentage as this do
not frequently spring our gamblers, horse
theives and murderers?
To me it seems that if the mind seeks not after
lofty pursuits, it must seek after something low
and therefore the heart is often led astray.
Then let us seek after those pleasures which
will elevate and ennoble us that we may rise
above the low paltry vices that beset us on
every side, then we will be more able to cope
with the adversary who is ever against truth
and we will become more firm in the Gospel.
May God bless you all and strengthen us for
the dark trials to come is the prayer of your
sister.
		IDA HOAG


Madame Tchebriokova the courageous
woman who sent the Czar an open letter
protesting against the cruelties practised by
the Russian government, has been pardoned,
and will uot be sent to Siberia.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


TRUST IN GOD.

When storm-clouds gather thick and dark,
	And hang o’er mountain-top and vale,
The lightning gleams, the thunder rolls,
	And wildly shrieks the rising gale;
The clouds with pent-up fury burst,
	Now rules, the storm-king, dread, and drear,
Benumbed, and faint, I cry for help,
	Alas! no helping hand is near;

				CHORUS
I'll put my trust in Him above,
	And humbly pray on bended knee,
"As firm as flint, as true as steel,
	O, Father, grant that I may be."

When trials throng on every hand
	The loss of health, of wealth, of friends,
And all I think, or say, or do,
	To direst disappointment tends;
When pleasures, comforts, are unknown,
	And all my days are full of woe—
And earth and hell their powers combine,
	To make secure my overthrow.

When brother man, with hell-born hate, 
	Bears down with cruel brutish hand,
Forgetting justice, mercy, truth,
	Perverting laws of God and man;
The bigot world looks on and smiles,
	Applauds, then lends a hand as well;
Then, tiger-like with taste aroused, 
Springs on the prey like fiend of hell.

When friends prove false, loved, trusted, friends,
	(Alas! that it should e’er be so)
When loved ones with deceitful guile,
	Betray me to my deadly foe.
	Oh cruel fate! my cup is full!
Why hath my God forsaken me!
	Look up, my heart; thy God still reigns;
He only means to temper thee.

Then let me lead a godly life,
	Obeying Him who rules above,
Then shall my God, my shelter be,
	Through faith made perfect by his love;
Then shall all dangers turn aside;
	Then shall I triumph o'er my foes;		
Then shall I wear the victor’s crown,
	Though tempests, earth, and hell, oppose.
								ISRAEL.


NATURE.

Nature's Laws have ever taught me, that,
In her was something grand, sublime,—Godlike;
Far more than man, with all his boasted powers,
Of heart and brain, can possibly compete with. 

Behold the plants, that adorn our earth;
In them a gradually increasing growth, both night and
	day;
So feeble once,—perhaps unseen by man.
It was easily crushed— dwarfed, or bowed to the dust;
The scorching sun, when added to a drouth,
Was more than enough to destroy its powers,
But it was wont to cling to a latent hope,
And it pierced the soil with its tendril roots.
Earth's soul had been warmed by the burning sun,
Imparting strength that kindly fed, and gave it life,
Until it gracefully towards the zenith climbed;
It became a grand and mighty tree, compared to the dwarf,
The crippled one, that did not—perhaps could not grow.

Earth what of her? She often belches forth,
Her pent up force, in molten fiery streams,
And from her shaking cliffs fragments tumble;
Huge masses,—boulders, into her valleys fall.
From her hills and dales the limpid streams,
In gentle murmurs, o'er her pebbles roll;
While further onward her store is increased, by others
	added,
The volume now in figures I could not express;
But suffice to say, it has become, a swollen stream;
Even her banks are filled to over-flowing;
And the great boiling ocean receives her all.

View the Earth's Seas, dotted here and there with barks,
O’er which they dash at times with froth, and foam;


And surge, and boil, as with maddening rage;
With powerful force, they whip the ragged beach;
Their slippery feet rebound, they dance with crash and roar
Sometimes in calm, they meet the sail fore, and aft, with
	dangers dire;
And thus they crush her on the shoals in darkness dense,

Now from earth we'll view. that which surrounds.
Light and darkness, is the result of the position of the sun,
According to distance far or near, warmth is received from
	him;
The reflecting rays of the sun upon drops of rain produce
	the rainbow tints,
And from the lowering clouds, the rain, snow and hail de-
	scends.
The lightning, madly shoots with serpent tongue, it girts
	the earth;
And from the lightning splintered trees, the flames ascend;
From among the hills, and towering peaks the thunders
	roll.
The winds, they gather with increased fury and powerful
	weight, 
They sweep the earth, uproot the trees! Oh God!
In this we must acknowledge Thee, Thy Almighty power;
All Nature teaches me that Thou art God,
The one and ever living God of Truth.
							DR. E. S. BARNEY
	Salt Lake City Mar. 17th 1890.


[column 1]
FOR THE EXPONENT:
				PRAYER.

		"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire,
			Uttered or unexpressed;
		The motion of a hidden fire
			That trembles in the breast.
	Oh thou by whom we come to God;
			The Life, the Truth, the Way!
		The path of prayer thyself hast trod;
			Lord teach us how to pray."	
	The Lord’s people have ever been taught to
pray for that they desire in righteousness, and
we find in perusing God’s word that He has
also promised to grant us what we pray for.
	In Christ’s sermon on the mount He ex-
horted all to pray, saying, “ask and it shall be
given, knock and it shall be opened,” in that
same sermon He also taught his disciples how
to pray, more perfect yet simple language it
would be difficult to have chosen; at that time
He said "we should not pray simply to be
heard for our Father knows what we need be-
fore we ask,” for this reason how particular
we should be when presenting ourselves before
the throne of grace, how pure, simple, and
from the heart should our petitions be, our
Savior has set us a most beautiful example,
Jesus prayed for Peter in the prospect of his
fall, He was so well acquainted with the design-
ing Satan, He knew the enemies desires and as
the great Intercessor He pleaded with His
Father for him, and what He did for Peter,
He will do for us if we will ask him and exer-
cise proper faith; we may lose the prayers of
a wise father and even a fond mother, but if
we will rely upon him, Jesus will file our
petitions into heaven before the Father in all
our trials, our bereavements, our sorrows, Christ
will advocate our cause and plead for our com-
fort and solace.
	I would not infer that because we are
prayerfully disposed that we will escape all
ills, tribulations and suffering, there are many
follies in us that need correction, if we were
not loved by the Father we would never be
chastised, but He loves us too well to even
seem to sanction a wrong in us, we cannot
escape all trials but we can be resigned.
Parley P. Pratt once prayed when harassed
and tried very severely “If I must pass through
all this suffering Father bless me with peace-
ful resignation;” if we will sincerely pour out
our souls to Him, He will help us to know
that every trial is a blessing to us in some way
or other.
	Just before the crucifixion of Christ, his

[column 2]
agony of mind, the dread of his ordeal was
so great that He sweat drops of blood, on his
knees in the garden of Gethsemane; He prayed
to his Father, with all the fervency of his be-
ing that "if it were possible the bitter cup
might pass," but, He added “not my will, but
thine be done,” his sufferings were tremendous;
but his resignation, his unqualified acquiescence
to the Father’s will immediately showed itself
in his noble character, by his entire resignation
to the Supreme will. If then deliverance can-
not always be granted from the many griev-
ances of this mortal state by meekly and
humbly approaching our Creator He will sus-
tain us, He will resign and comfort us and
assist us to see the benefit of our afflictions;
by prayer we will be better able to bear our
chastisement patiently and be anxious for the
sanctification rather than removal of whatever
a just God deems best for our purification in
this world.
	We find in the book of Doctrine and
Covenants section 65, a revelation on prayer
wherein ’tis said “pray unto the Lord call
upon his holy name,” there must really be
great efficacy in prayer, if it was necessary to
give a special revelation upon this subject; we
were required at that time to be prayerful that
we might have greater power in proclaiming
the glad tidings of the coming of the King-
dom of heaven; that the inhabitants of the
earth would receive the word and be better
prepared for the coming of the Son of man.
In another revelation in that same book we
read "he that observeth not his prayers before 
the Lord in the season thereof let him be had,
in remembrance before the judge of my peo- 
ple;” 'tis not only a requirement made of us
but a commandment that we pray ourselves
and teach our children how to pray, that they
may walk uprightly, ’tis the safest way to have
influence in the home. The responsibility of
bringing up children is a great one, though
everlasting blessings attend this care; but we
must be prayerful ever seeking wisdom from
Him, who has promised to hear and answer
our supplications, even then we will be sorely
tried and perhaps see some of our flock go
astray, or torn from us in some heart rending
way, before they are matured or have even
reached the years of accountability.
	We are now living in a time of fiery trials
and unmerciful persecutions, without true faith
it will be almost imposssble for us to overcome
and be found firm. It seems that Satan and
every evil influence is combined in trying us,
besetting our daily walks with temptation of
every conceivable nature, for this reason we
should be wide awake, “pray witoout ceasing”
remembering the prayer Jesus taught his
followers “lead us not into temptation but de-
liver us from evil,” It should be a joy to be
persecuted for the sake of Christ who was so
willing to suffer for us that we might be saved.
"Through much tribulation we must enter the
kingdom of heaven,” in order to endure the
test we must plead continually that our con-
fidence and courage may be strengthened, that
our motives and conduct may be pure this
blessing we can obtain by calling upon him
"who giveth liberally and upbraideth not."
We have been taught to pray for one another,
in the book of holy writ ’tis said “the prayer
of the righteous availeth much if our circnm-
stances in life are such that we can do nothing
more we can plead at Jehovah’s throne for a
father, brother or a tried sister, many hearts
have been made to look up and rejoice through
the prayers of a devotional friend. They are
few indeed who have troden life’s path with-
out having the rod of chastisement or affliction
passed over them the only consolation there
is will be poured upon the tried ones from
that bountiful source from whence comes all
that is peace, and joy, and love.
					E. A. CRANE WATSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	Woman’s Exponent.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,  - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, - - MAY 1, 1890.


THE SITUATION IN UTAH.

	The present condition of measures for Utah
now pending before Congress, and the decision
of the Supreme Court in important matters of the
Church would seem to indicate the outlook rather
a dark one, for those whose faith in God and His
promises were not firm and well established.
	The eye of faith is needed to descry the bright-
ness in the distance, for the natural eye alone
discovers insurmountable barriers rising one
above another, that shut out the horizon of hope
and leave only a dim rushlight to lighten our
faith. But our Father in heaven has said that de-
liverance will come to Zion in such a marvelous
way, that none can deny it is from God, or take the
honor unto himself.
	But the Lord intends His people to be tried in
all things, and there are those who seem to see
the dawn of prosperity, as far as this world's
goods are concerned, the trial of riches, coming
upon the Saints. It may be so, and it may be for
the best good; the prophecies of ancient and
modern prophets must be fulfilled in the redemp-
tion and building up of Zion, but it seldom
happens that wealth brings increased happiness
or devotion to God or to His divine laws.
	Therefore it is essentially incumbent upon those
who desire to remain steadfast and faithful, not
only to pray without ceasing but watch con-
tinually that thay may not be overcome but en-
dure unto the end whatever crosses they may
have to bear or temptations beset their pathway.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Hon. Samuel J. Randall, whose death occurred
at his home in Washington, D. C., on Sunday
April 13, 1890, was born in Philadelphia, Pa,
October 10, 1828. He was elected to Congress
in 1862, and took his seat December 7, 1863. He
was Speaker of the House of Representatives
from December 1876 to March 1881. In January,
1879, while speaker, he laid before the House
the first Memorial presented to Congress from the
women of Utah, among other things asking that
the law of 1862 be repealed. The writer remem-
bers with great satisfaction the uniform kindness
he has ever manifested towards her and this
people whenever she has met him, or talked with
him upon the conditions under the enforcement of
the laws enacted against this people during the
last few years. One of our exchanges contains
the following notice of Speaker Randall, which
seems a fitting tribute to one who served his
country faithfully and well, and the writer heartily
concurs with the sentiments herein expressed.
	“Hon. Samuel J. Randall, of Pennsylvania,
whose death was recently announced, will take
high rank in American history as a statesman, a

[Column 2]
patriot and a parliamentary leader. He was not
a scholar, but he was a man of fine intellect, keen
perceptions, immense capacity for work, unflinch-
ing courage, and rugged integrity. In war a brave
and faithful soldier, in peace he was ever a sturdy
champion of good government and the people’s
rights. On the floor of Congress and in the
Speaker’s chair his services were important
and distinguished. The most striking features in
Mr. Randall’s character was his perfect integrity.
He would not make a dollar by indirection.
Looking back upon a long career of public service
commencing before the war in the Common
Council of Philadelphia and running through
many sessions of Congress, in some of which
jobbery ran riot, Mr. Randall as he lay upon his
death-bed had the satisfaction of knowing that he
had been aggressively and robustly honest and
had not for his personal profit willfully wronged
either the government or any fellow citizen to the
extent of a dollar. He lived as befitted his in
come. Social allurements betrayed him into no
excesses. His home was modest, his life tem-
perate. He died leaving no great estate. And
surely a great estate can not be accumulated upon
a Congressman’s salary, though some famous
statesmen have demonstrated the contrary.—Ex.

	On Tuesday, the 17th day of April in company
with Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Sarah M.
Kimball, we attended the Relief Society of
Farmer’s Ward, held in the parlor of Sister
Emma Woodruff’s residence just south of the
city. The large parlor was well filled with the
sisters and a very few brethren. Sister Wood-
ruff, the president of the society conducted the
meeting. There were the usual exercises of
singing, prayer, and reading minutes of former
meeting, and then speeches were in order, Sister
Woodruff very happily leading out in suitable
opening remarks, followed by Sister Zina,
General President of the Relief Society of the
Church, who, in her usual eloquent style spoke
for a short time, giving instruction on various
subjects. Sister Gibbie, counselor to Sister
Woodruff and others of the local sisters made a
few remarks, bearing testimony to the truth of
the Gospel, after which the writer, in response to
the invitation of the president spoke briefly upon
faith, the training of children and spiritual culti-
vation. After some other testimonies from the
sisters present, Sister Kimball spoke of the
need of method in our work and the cultivation
of those powers of mind that would make
woman companionable to man, and his helpmate
and equal, politically and otherwise; she referred
to the words used by the brother in his prayer at
the opening of the meeting as significant, “sisters
in the ministry,” or words to that effect, and her
remarks throughout were singularly clear and
impressive. Sister Sarah Jane Cannon, first
counselor in the society spoke quite feelingly of
her good desires and intentions and her willing-
ness and that of the sisters there to labor for the
good of the needy and the sick, and help in what-
ever way possible in promoting the interests of
the good cause. Other sisters bore testimony
and Brothers Gibbie and Wagstaff also testified
of their experience and gave every encourage-
ment possible to the sisters to persevere in their
labors. The meeting was dismissed with singing
and pra er, after which general conversation was
indulged in, Sister Woodruff having already invited
those present to remain. Pres. Woodruff shortly
after arrived from the city and presently a sump-
tuous dinner was served, also fruit, candies, nuts,
etc., in the long dining room adjoining the parlor.
The venerable President seated at the head of the
table, entertained his guests with reminiscences
of the past, his long and peculiar experience in
the Church, his association with Joseph the
Prophet, afterwards Brigham, Heber, George A.,
and other Apostles, and subsequently with John

[Column 3]
Taylor as President, and now with a younger set
of men, feeling he had lived through three
generations of this dispensation. The afternoon
was a most enjoyable one to the writer and will
never be forgotten.


MRS. PFEIFER’S WILL.
	The will of Mrs. Emily Pfeiffer, late of May-
field, West Hill, Putney, England, who died on
January 23rd last, was proved on March 11th by
Mrs. Jemima Lamond, the sister, one of the execu-
tors, the value of the personal estate amounting
to upwards of £63,000. The testatrix, by her
will, after bequeathing £500 to her said sister,sets
out that her late husband left herall his property,
having full confidence she would carry out his
wishes in respect thereof, and she accordingly
leaves all her property to be disposed of accord-
ing to his wishes, as expressed in a letter dated
September 4th, 1884, by which the bulk of his
property is to be distributed among charitable
and educational institutions for women only; and
he states that he considers boys should be
brought up to work, and not be born with silver
spoons in their mouths, and should not have any-
thing left them. By her codicil, the testatrix
gives the residue of the proceeds of the sale of
Mayfield, after payment of the bequest given by
her late husband in the said letter of September
4th, 1884, to his brother, John Pfeiffer, and her
sisters, Caroline Rocca and Jemima Lamond, and
their shares, after they have enjoyed the same
during life, are to revert to her neice, Emily
Bertha Sophie Overweg. She also, by her codi-
cil, leaves the whole of the property of her late
husband invested in securities to be applied in
the establishment and endowment of cottage
homes for destitute girls (preferably orphans), to
be called “Jurgen Edward Pfeiffer’s Homes.”
	Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer, whose will is here spoken
of, visited America, and in their route across the
continent stopped at Salt Lake City. In her
book “Flying Leaves from East to West," she had
considerable to say about Utah, and as she had
had told me she should write up her visit to Utah
and would send me the book I was quite
anxious to see it. She was a pleasing writer of
both poetry and prose,and as I had seen her articles
in Littell's Living Age, and she had also spoken
to me of her books, and her work for suffrage as
well as her interest in dress reform. Altogether,
I expected the book would be exceedingly inter-
esting, but she did not send me a copy.
	Meeting a party of ladies at Mt. Vernon one
day, while in Washington in 1886, they inquired
of me, if I was the Mrs. Wells that Mrs. Emily
Pfeiffer had mentioned in her book. I replied
that Mrs. Pfeiffer and husband visited Salt Lake
City, had been two or three times in the office of
the Exponent, and spent an evening at my house.
	"O, then,” exclaimed two or three at once,
“you are the one, and we want to have a talk
with you.”
	I stated to them my surprise that Mrs. Pfeiffer
had not sent me her book. Evidently they knew
the reason, for one of them with a little hesita-
tion in her manner informed me “that she pre-
sumed it was because of what it contained
against our people.”
	I confess I was astonished, for they had been
entertained at the Gardo while here, and President
Taylor had taken more than ordinary pains to
converse with them on Utah subjects. And they
had also visited Sister Eliza at the Lion House.
	I had a very pleasant time with the ladies who
had referred to Mrs. Pfeiffer, both at Mt. Vernon
and on the steamer returning to Washington, and
at parting, one of them remarked, “when I go
back to England I’ll send you Mrs. Pfeiffer's
book,” and she kept her word. The ladies were
traveling for pleasure, they were of different


nationalities, English, French, Spanish and
German and one from Norway. I intended to
have written up that day at Mt. Vernon, for the
EXPONENT, but postponed it and at the present
time, so much that was said has passed from my
mind, that I  fear it would not be interesting.
	Among the items about Utah in Mrs. Pfeiffer’s
book, are some that I will quote to show that she
was impressed with some things she saw, not-
withstanding her prejudices and sarcasms and the
bitterness manifested in some paragraphs.
	She says, “sought out the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, a fortnightly paper devoted to the
interests of Mormonism and woman’s suffrage,and
introduced ourselves to the editress, Mrs. Daniel
Wells, who was very kind to us, and abounding
in the information I was most desirous of pro-
curing. From her we were able to gather an idea
of the aspect which this strange faith presents to
the educated minority of its female professors.”
She then gives some of my history which she had
heard in part from a lady at Manitou, and closes
the paragraph, “Mrs. Wells admitted the fact of
the plural marriage, but did not volunteer informa-
tion on a subject which is naturally delicate, if
for no other reason than that polygamy violates 
the law of the land.”
	“She freely, however, answered all the many
questions I put to her on less personal topics.”
Mrs. Pfeiffer has forty pages in her book devoted
to Salt Lake City and Mormonism. She speaks
of their visit with me to the Lion House to see
Sister Eliza in this way.
	“After a trifling delay we were introduced into
the presence of an old lady with a mild and
serious face, spare frame, and the sort of
dignity which comes from the possession of and
living up to an idea. She had the narrow fore-
head of a visionary, was upright, and her black
dress hung upon her with a certain homely
grace. She received us at first quietly and rather
coldly.”
	Some few introductory remarks are then given
in detail, in which she speaks of Sister Elliza
showing them the gold watch that belonged to "the
murdered prophet, whose wife she had been.”
	“From this the conversation drifted naturally
into subjects connected with Mormonism, and the
trials its possessors had undergone for their faith.
She saw in these trials the seal of its truth; and
gradually finding she was talking to willing listen-
ers the fire kindled and the old priestess unfolded
to us the inner life of her singular faith,expounding,
and at last I could not but feel, almost exhorting,
in the spirit of a Hebrew prophetess. The face
that had been cold to us at first, grew full of
human love and pity; the dim eyes that had
looked upon the world for eighty years were
tearful, her voice vibrating with emotion. She
was sorrowful, struggling with the thought that
she possessed a treasure of living truth which she
was unable to share with those who owned them-
selves in darkness, or with only that little light
which is a “lantern to the feet." I do not envy
the condition of that soul that could have
watched the earnest face of Sister Snow and not
have felt lifted to some meeting place of sympathy
far above prejudice and even knowledge, and in
spite of the impediment of a repulsive creed.
All that can be found in this singular communion
as food for the higher life, would seemed to have
been seized upon and assimilated by this earnest
adherent, who was now giving testimony of it in a
full tale of natural and simple eloquence. We
were both of us deeply touched; and well we
might be, for the situation had in it an element
that was indeed pathetic. We wanderers in
darkness, only not absolute that it was felt; she,
nearing the end of her pilgrimage; and speaking
to us from a height which she had reached by the
aid of what, in our eyes was a false light.  Alas
for us a poor striving children of men! Who shall
help us, if in our wanderings we have no pity for
each other.”

[Column 2]
	Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer also met Sister Eliza at
the Gardo House, and speak of her there in 
much the same strain.  Of the evening spent at
our house she has considerable to say and winds
up with the remark:
	"All of the several persons we met were per-
fectly well-mannered, and full of the most cordial
kindness.  The impression that Sister Snow
made upon us was deepened at every interview.
I believe that however eccentric her opinions,
she had a selfless purity of motive which sur-
rounded her as a luminous atmosphere.  Mrs
Wells appeared a tender mother, and in this stage
Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer also met listereliza at
the Gardo House, and speak of her there in
much the same strain. Of the evening spent,g'
our house she has considerable to say and winds
up with the remark:
“All of the several persons we met were'per-
fectly well-mannered, and full of the most cordial
kindness. The impression that Sister Snow
made upon us was deepened at every interview.
I believe that however eccentric her opinions,
she had a selfless purity of motive which sur-
rounded her as a luminous atmosphere. Mrs
Wells appeared a tender mother, and in this stage
of her existence a happily detached wife, content
in the free exercise of her own activity. Dr.
Romdnia was a sensible looking woman who also
had found a sphere of action to her mind. We were
sorry to leave the pleasant light and warmth and
the fellowship of kindly hearts, and however our
views of the evil and corruption at the core of
Mormonism remained unchanged, we sincerely
regretted that the little circle within the radius of
that friendly hearth would possibly be called on
to share in the troubles to come. But we had to
go. Dr. Pratt pressed us to take seats in the open
buggy which awaited her at the door, but I
feared the keen night air. The hardy old prophet-
ess felt herself better able to repel its effects, and
stood lightly shawled, ready to depart with the
medical lady, while we took of each other a
lingering farewell. I see the tall, slim, sable-
robed figure, with the human love and longing in
the dim eyes, see it as I saw it then, and shall
never see it again; though the heart of the aged
priestess which was of those that “hope all things,
seemed to tell her we should meet again.”
Of her visit, to Salt Lake City, Mrs. Pfeiffer has
this to say:	
“Our days were passed in as much communion
with the Mormon people as. we were able to
establish, but the evenings had never failed to
bring to our hotel, Mr. Goodwin, the gentleman
on whom we had called on our first arrival, who
anxious to correct the impressions we might
have derived from native sources, fulminated
against the Mormons in eloquent periods, which
we sometimes recognized in the Salt Lake
'Tribune the succeeding day


WOMANS EXPONENT.


THE PRIVILEGES AND RIGHTS OF
WOMAN.
	What is woman suffrage and what will it re-
quire of them? Go to the polls two or three
times a year deposit a ballot and come
away. That part of their duty will take per-
haps four or five hours in the course of a year.
That is all the majority of the voters do now,
they go to the polls find the regular party
ticket and put it into the box. If they are of
an independent turn of mind they perhaps
scratch out a few names and insert others, hav-
ing done this they return to their farms or
place of business of whatever nature, and wo-
men would return to their household duties.
But if this is all;—what is gained by woman
suffrage? At first the gain would be very little,
perhaps most women voting the same as hus-
bands, brothers, fathers and sons, so that it
would only be an increase in the vote, but
the more important results of woman suffrage
would follow later. When women have the
right to vote, they will find it their duty to ex-
amine public and political questions, they will
read, study, and talk about them with hus-
bands and sons, thus woman will become the
fellow worker with man in this matter as she
has become his companion in many other
things.
	In the savage state woman is the servant
and man is the master, in the Oriental state
she is the plaything of man, in both these steps
of development she is regarded as an inferior,

[Column 2]		
being incapable of holding equal companion-
ship with her lord and master. But in the
third step of human progress which came from
the alliance of Christianity with the Teutonic
races, woman rose into a near state of equality.
This change has been going on until she now
shares with man in his education, his amuse-
ment, his work and his religion, and who
can doubt that this co-operation gives us a
much higher type of society. All that we ask is
that another step be taken in the direction,
that woman shall become the companion of
man in his political and public duty as she has
in almost every other. And now we ask: Why
should one half of the people be excused from
taking part in these great and important
duties? Why in a government of the whole
allow one half to try its talent in the earth?
I maintain that in a government like ours wo-
men have no right to be excused from taking a
full share with men in public affairs.
	When God made man and woman He made
them companions and as they have had more
companionship society has improved. Why
should it make woman less womanly to deposit
a vote, than to put a letter in the post office,
women mingle with men in the streets,
churches, theatres, balls and parties, they nurse
men in hospitals, sell to them in shops, this
does not make them less feminine, why should
voting? To my mind it would improve family
life as it has already, by common work by
common interest.
	The present Queen of England has taken a
more active and controling part in the politics
of her realm, than any of her predecessors and
no one has shown more domestic affection and
interest in her home. By husbands and wives
studying public questions together, her views
will be enlarged and his improved, it would be
a new education to both. Among the ignorant
classes we hear of shocking brutality of hus-
bands to their wives, this is because they take
a savage view of them and treat them more
like slaves than wives, give her the vote, let
man see that she has become a person of im-
portance, that his political leaders treat her
and other women with deference because of
their votes, and he will be necessarily led to
treat her so himself.
	This may seem nonsense to women who live
in comfort and elegance, who are treated with
courtesy and respect, whose every wish is to
those about them a law, but let them remem-
ber that there are women burdened with
labors, treated with brutality and regarded as
having no rights but nevertheless may be in-
telligent and worthy of a better lot in life. I
was talking with a gentleman to day who
asserts that woman’s home indirect influence
is all in all, that they are a power behind the
throne and that they can do more in this silent,
secret way than any other, I say unless this
means that they influence men to vote as they
wish, it has no bearing on the question; it
means that they do exercise a political influ-
ence privately and secretly, then history shows
that this a dangerous sort of influence. It is
a power divorced from responsibility, women
have under Monarchies used such secret in-
fluence, but it has usually been disastrous
having no responsibility for what they did,
they used their powers of persuasion to procure
measures for their own interests and that of
their families with little thought of public
good. No doubt many women have used a
legitimate influence without voting but why
should they not do all this and vote?  Echo
answers why. Respectfully,
	SARAH S. BOYER.


R. S. REPORTS.
UINTAH STAKE.
Minutes of the fourth conference of the


[Column 1]

Relief Society of Uintah Stake of Zion con-
vened in the Ashley Ward Meeting House
March 2nd, 1890. Meeting called to order at
10 a. m. Pres. Sarah Pope presiding, the
house was pretty well filled; Brother R. S.
Collett, James Hawkins, together with the
Bishops and their Counselors were on the
stand and the Presidents of the several
branches of the Relief Society excepting one.
	Singing, "How sweet is redeeming love,"
prayer by A. H. Bartlett, singing "High on
the mountain tops appearing." Minutes of
previous conference read and approved. Pres.
Sarah Pope said she was thankful to her
Heavenly Father for the blessings we are as a
people at present enjoying, and for the privi-
lege of meeting in another conference, "it is
one year ago to day since we had a Relief
Society Conference, we intended to have one
last September, but we at that time had so
much sickness in the valley we could not, I am
pleased to see so many here and I hope we
have come with good feelings towards each
other that we may have the spirit of God to 
be with us, that we may have a good time."
	Sister A. H. Bartlett gave a report of the
Ashley Relief Society.
	Sister Jenson said she desired an interest in
the prayers of all present, "it is the first time
I ever spoke in conference, I have striven to
live up to the requirements of the Gospel and
by so doing have received a testimony of the
same, the Church of Christ is like unto the
body of Christ, and as each member is neces-
sary to make the body perfect, so is each or-
ganization to a whole. We should come to
our meetings that our spirits may be fed as
well as our bodies, each day of our lives we
should try to keep the commandments of God,"
she then read a chapter in the book of Isaiah
that was very appropriate for the occasion,and
also made a few remarks on the same.
	Sister Goodrich reported the Relief Society
of the Merill's Ward. Sister Oaks said the
principles of the Gospel were most beautiful
to her and if we lived up to them, they would
lead us to life eternal, prayed for the blessing
of God to rest upon the sisters for they had
done much in taking care of the sick and
afflicted the past winter. We should be charit-
able, she then read a portion of a sermon of
Joseph Smith's on charity.
	Sister Osser reported Riverdale Society as
doing as well as could be expected. Sister
Olney bore a faithful testimony to the truth of
the Gospel, said we had many trials but
they were generally for our good.
	Sister Sarah Colton reported the Mill Ward
Society, and said she felt thankful to the sisters
for the help they had been in taking care of
the sick.
	Sister Collett spoke on the rearing of our
children said we should be prayerful and set
them good examples and teach them to live
lives of purity, and also bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Reynolds and Sister Alpanalp said
they wished to do all the good they could and
bore testimonies to the truth of the Gospel.
Sister Freestone said we should strive to set
a good example before the young and rising
generation; mothers should try to see that
their children went to Primary, for the sisters
do all they can to come and teach them, so
their mothers surely ought to see that they
come to the meeting and go themselves as
much as possible; "the adversary is ever on
the alert to destroy our children therefore we
should try to instil into their young minds true
principles."
	Pres. Sarah Pope said we should try to be
good and kind to each other, we should try
to keep the commands of God that we may
always have His spirit to be with us so when
we go into a sick room the influence we carry
with us is felt; sometimes every touch of a

[Column 2]

person around one who is sick is soothing;
many of the sisters this past winter have
worked over the sick until they have been
worn out; we knew we were doing good in
waiting upon the sick and afflicted; there is a
power trying to overthrow the Kingdom of
God; but will they do it? no they never will,
the work will roll on and come off triumphant,
there are many prophecies being fulfilled, the
Jews are being gathered to their own land,
and many more signs of the coming of the
Savior. How can any body say, I can see no
evidence of the truth of the principles of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints;
there is enough transpiring every day to con-
vince us of its truth, but sisters do not tire in
trying to do good, let us be sure and remember
to look after the sick, and the aged that are
among us, we must look after them and let us
be very careful and not hurt any body's feel-
ings in doing so, and let us take care of our
daughters and sons too, let us continue to teach
the principles of virtue and uprightness."
Conference adjourned until 2 p. m., singing
"Praise ye the Lord," benediction by Pres.
Sarah Pope.
	Afternoon session; meeting at 2 p. m. Pres.
Sarah Pope presiding, singing "I'll praise my
Maker while I've breath," prayer by Sister
Oaks, singing, "I saw a mighty angel fly."
Sacrament was administered after which Sister
Roxanna Remington made a few remarks and
gave some good instructions to the young peo-
ple. Sister Stringham spoke on kindness to
the aged and to be up and doing, and do all
we can to help our Presidents in the different
associations, read a portion of a sermon de-
livered by Pres. Woodruff about six months
ago and spoke a short time on the same.
	Sister Wardle then reported the 4th Ward
Society. Sister A. H. Bartlett spoke on wo-
man's rights which was interesting to all, and
also on the subject of young men going on
missions, those boys that went on missions a
little over two years ago could not speak but
a short time previous to their going, but now
they can occupy as much time as is appropri-
ate for them, it was a trial to them when they
were called yet it has proved a great blessing;
she also spoke well on the principles of the
Gospel and was listened to with intense in-
terest.
	The names of the Stake officers were then
read and sustained. Brother R. S. Collett
made a few closing remarks, gave the sisters
some good instructions and spoke encourage-
ingly to the sisters which was gladly received.
	Conference adjourned until some convenient
time next summer, singing "Awake ye saints
awake." Benediction by Sister Henrietta
Hatch.
		ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec'y.

SANPETE STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Sanpete Stake, was held at Ephraim,
in the meeting house, Friday, March 14, 1890.
Pres. M. A Hyde presiding. On the stand
were Pres. O. Peterson and Counselor Beal, of
the stake presidency, and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of
Salt Lake City, also Mrs. Minerva W. Snow,
and Pres. Hyde's counselor, Mrs. Sarah Peter-
son, and several presidents from different parts
of the stake, the Bishops of each ward in
Ephraim and Pres. Allred, of Y. M. M. I. A.;
of the stake. Meeting opened at 10 a.m. with-
singing

	"Glorious things are sung of Zion."

	Prayer was offered by Counselor Beal,
singing again,

	"O ye mountains high."

	Pres. Hyde made a few opening remarks,
alluding to her recent visit to Salt Lake City
and the great changes that had recently tran-

[Column 3]

spired there; also spoke of her long and
varied experience in the Church, stated it was
more than fifty years since she was baptized,
and referred to her acquaintance with the
Prophet Joseph Smith and others.
	Mrs. R. Wareham, Pres. R. S., North Ward,
Manti, represented the society favorably, spoke
of the liberality manifested in giving, thought
there were some indifferent in regard to de-
velopment and opportunities of doing good,
and felt they would yet look back with regret
on such neglect; thought we should all strive
to make good use of our time, and if we do
not, great will be our loss. Spoke of the vast
work done by the Relief Society in many
places in erecting halls and granaries; felt
thankful that she, too, had been fifty years in
the Church this year; was baptized in 1840.
She spoke in warm praise of the presidency of
the Relief Society in the stake, Sisters Hyde,
Peterson and Allred, and of Sister M. W.
Snow, who was a mother in the Temple, whom
she had enjoyed the privilege of laboring
under.
	Mrs. Sarah Tuttle, the next speaker, had also
been a long time in the Chnrch, testified that
since she had been in the Temple, she had been
more spiritual, but was more out of the habit
of speaking, had been working in the Temple
ever since it had been opened, gloried in the
work for the dead.
	Mrs. Ann Lowrey reported, South Ward,
Manti, as the president, Mrs. E. Casto was not
able to attend the Conference on account of
her health. She rejoiced to see the Saints of
all nationalities coming to the Temple; they
must have faith or they would not come as
they did in crowds; thought we should teach
our children to be virtuous, pure and prayer-
ful. We need great wisdom to do the duties
well that are assigned to us.
	Mrs. Minerva W. Snow felt happy to be
with the sisters here in the Conference, and
never felt better in the latter-day work, she
could see the hand of the Lord in what was
transpiring on the earth; knew of a surety
this was the work of God. She was baptized
when seventeen years of age and was now
nearly sixty-nine years old; felt glad to be one
of those to come and take part in this work;
wanted to fill her mission and be ready to go
when her Heavenly Father called. Since
being engaged in the Temple work she seemed
almost to live in the spirit world; made other
interesting remarks concerning Temple work.
She then urged the sisters to do all in their
power to make their homes happy, and a
heaven for the husband and children. Help
those who are weak, take them by the hand
and lead them onward, let us throw around
our children and others a saving influence;
said some very excellent things in regard to
training children. Spoke of the organization
of the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph in
Nauvoo and its onward progress. Never think
of our trials but be valiant and never reveal
the keys and blessings we receive here.
	Mrs. Anderson, Pres. R. S., North Ward,
Ephraim, spoke upon humility and the bless-
ing of the Lord, represented the sisters in her
ward as good and faithful; peace and harmony
prevailed, though there are trying times, and
and we should do whatever we can to help one
another.
	Counselor Sarah Peterson rejoiced greatly
in the work being done in the Temple and felt
there must be a great rejoicing on the other
side of the vail, felt happy in the work of the
Relief Society, was sure much good was being
accomplished in many directions, if we are
not so prosperous in temporal things, this is a
day of feasting upon spiritual things; made
many other remarks comforting and en-
couraging to all present.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m., singing,

	"Come, come, ye saints, no toil nor labor fear,"


[Column 1]

	﻿Dismissed with prayer by Bishop L. S.
Anderson.

	Afternoon Session: Meeting opened with
singing

	"Earth with her ten thousand flowers,"

	Prayer was offered by Bishop C. C. N.
Dorius. Singing

	"Come all ye sons of Zion."

	Pres. Hyde called for reports from other
branches of the R. S. in the stake.
	Pres. Ellen Dorius represented the South
Ward, Ephraim, the sisters were doing well,
alive to their duties and generous in impart-
ing to the needy, hoped we would all be more
united than ever before; always felt it a bless-
ing to sit under the sound of the voice of those
appointed to lead.
	Mrs. Caroline Snow felt proud of being a
worker in the Relief Society; said Sister Wei-
bye, in Manti, sent her love to the sisters, and
would have liked to have been there with
them, but had a very sick daughter, hoped we
would pray for her in her trouble and for all
the sick; thought we should have charity for
one another and love and union.
	Mrs. Taylor said she was thankful to be a
small link in the chain that binds us together,
what we do is little but it is lasting; we are
doing the small things, let us not say any-
thing to lessen the influence of a brother or
sister, we need to be on the watch tower all
the time, true to each other and true to our
friends. The One above will control all, and
our enemies cannot overthrow this work.
	Mrs. Agnes Armstrong—The Lord is good
and He will chasten whom He loves, but trust
in Him and He will only give us what we need.
The roses of the field will not give forth their
sweetness until they are pressed to death and
then we realize how precious is the perfume, as
with us, we are tried and proven to see if we
possess the true elements of salvation. The
day of redemption is near, God will give us
strength if we rely upon Him and perform our
daily duties. There is not as much backbiting
and speaking against each other as there used
to be, in this respect we have improved.
	Mrs. Lena Anderson felt much good instruc-
tion had been given and rejoiced in it, and in
the work among the needy in the Relief
Society; hoped the Spirit of the Lord would
guide us into the right channel.
	Mrs. Ellen Jakeman appreciated the work
done by the Relief Society, and recalled today
the incident of the first organization of the
Relief Society at Beaver, when Mrs. Elmira
Murdock was chosen to preside, and there were
seven sisters and two or three brethren present,
there was so much opposition and misappre-
hension that it seemed difficult to stem the
tide, but Mrs. Murdock then said, that in after
years we would be astonished at the results
that would follow. We have been brought
closer together through these organizations.
She had once been taken to live among
Gentiles, and as she was naturally combatative,
whenever they spoke against our people, she
began to hunt up arguments to prove her
position, so what might have been a detriment
to some, proved a blessing to her. Made some
good remarks upon literature and how careful
we should be in giving to our children proper
reading matter.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the great events
now transpiring in fulfillment of prophecy, the
need of faith and of wisdom, alluded to the
feeling of weakness among the sisters, and told
them it was just as essential to know their own
strength as their weakness; spoke of the great
work among our children, the rising genera-
tion, and the work for the dead in  the temple,
thought the people of Sanpete blessed to have
such a sacred edifice in their midst; gave
much special instruction to the sisters in refer-

[Column 2]

ence to their labors and exhorted them to read
and become fully developed in those matters
that would make them companionable to their
husbands; and wise and honorable mothers;
she thought the trials this people were now
enduring were light compared to a devastating
sickness, such as had been in days that were
past. Spoke of the presiding authority of the
Church, and what a very remarkable man
Pres. Woodruff was, full of life and vigor,
even more than many young men, "the trials
of life as we call them sit lightly upon him;"
spoke to the sisters upon improvement, intellec-
tual and spiritual, and urged them not to work
too hard, also spoke of the United Order or a
time when peace and harmony should exist in
all Israel, and all inequalities and difficulties
be adjusted.
	Pres. Hyde was much interested in the
United Order, as it had been touched upon
here to-day, thought it would be a great trial
to speculators; this is a very interesting period
in our history as a people; spoke also of the
appearance of the Prophet Joseph, the impres-
sion he made upon those with whom he asso-
ciated, his noble and dignified bearing. She
had the privilege of hearing his teaching, but
did not then appreciate the importance of each
golden word. He seemed to have the power
of winning every heart, and even his enemies
softened towards him if he could converse
with them. Alluded to the time when her
husband, Apostle Orson Hyde returning
from a council very sad, informed her that
Joseph had thrown the responsibility of the
work upon the Twelve, she felt then something
would take him from the people. She made
some remarks upon the gathering of the Jews,
thought it one of the greatest testimonies of
the times. Sister Hyde then exercised the gift
of tongues, and Sister Snow gave the interpre-
tation.
	Pres. C. Petersen made brief remarks, re-
ferred to the great changes that had taken
place since a conference had been held there,
especially in Salt Lake City, if any one had
uttered these things as a prophecy it could
hardly have been believed; felt sorry to hear
of people being obliged to sell their homes be-
cause of high taxes, but knew it to be the
direct result of disobedience to counsel. "If
we had kept our trade entirely to ourselves and
lived within our means, we should not have
had to open our doors so wide. Co-operation
is the stepping stone to the United Order and
it is my belief that this people will not adopt
it only when they have been tried to the
utmost. In my experience I have found that
the poor are much more willing to accept these
things than the rich. The book of Doctrine
and Covenants tells us that we shall not in-
herit the land of Zion, which is Missouri, until
we are ready to accept the United Order. The
Lord will try us with riches as we have been
tried in poverty." Pres. Peterson spoke nobly
of the woman suffrage cause, and encouraged
the sisters to persevere in their labors in wise
and kindly words of counsel.
	Conference adjourned for three months, the
exact time and place of meeting to be desig-
nated hereafter. Singing,

	"The Spirit of God like a fire is burning;"

	Benediction by Brother Lowrey.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
Germans, consider in an act of politeness to 
kiss a lady's hand. 
Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton's present ad-
dress is Basingstoke, Hants, England, care of 
William Henry Blatch. 
The municipal woman suffrage bill was 
defeated in the Massachusetts House of
﻿Representatives on April 17 by a vote (includ-
ing pairs) of 141 to 73. The affirmative vote was
almost exclusively Republican. There were
24 pairs.
There are now ten Hindoo and Parsee
ladies taking courses of higher study in
England, and a number of young girls are at
school in the mother island. Perhaps some of
these girls will live to see the last “child
widow” in India.
The women students have finally conquered
Basle, which, alone among Swiss universities,
has hitherto refused to admit them. A formal
decree now allows them to matriculate regularly,
but only by way of experiment; and it is stipu-
lated that if the experiment does not work
well, the doors of the university shall again
be closed to women.
Some wise real estate ageuts in Chicago have
engaged women as assistants, whose duty it is
to show houses. A busy man, who wants to
purchase a home, has his wife to suit first of
all. It is generally she who selects the house
and goes around to look at those that are for
sale. The assistant is sent with her. She
knows what women like in the way of closets,
storerooms, laundries, pantries, etc., and she
shows these off with feminine skill.
A bill to incorporate Elizabeth Cady Stanton,
Susan B. Anthony, Lucy Stone, Alice Stone
Blackwell, Jane H. Spofford, Rachel Foster
Avery, and their associates under the title of
the National-American Woman Suffrage
Association, to secure protection in their right
to vote to the women of the United States by
appropriate National and State legislation,
has been refered to the House Judiciary
Committee without objection.
	THOMAS WENTWORTH HIGGINSON advances
the idea that there are two classes of women
who are opposed to woman’s advancement from
her state of subjection. One is the school-girl
and the other is the home woman who rules
every one,husband included, with a rod of iron.
Mr Higginson forgets one class—they are the
strong-minded, conservative women, who have
no opinion of the capabilities of their sisters
and are sure the world would rush onward to
perdition if they were allowed a voice in affairs.
	MME. PATTI was interviewed a few days
ago as to the dress, exercise, diet etc., most
advisable for girls who wish to become singers.
Being asked “What wines may a young singer
allow herself?” Mme Patti answered: “If she
really means to succeed no wines at all. I don’t
believe in wine; it hurts the throat-almost in-
variably. Some young singers, I know are
not strong, and doctors prescribe claret for
them, but it is a bad practice to drink it.
For myself I never touch wine.”
Miss Blanche Willis Howard, the novelist,
lives in Stuttgart, and receives and chaperones
young ladies studying music, languages, and
the like. One of the girls under her care says:
“She is a practical manager, housekeeper, and
accountant.  She teaches us cooking and
economy, which one does not expect from a
poet. Besides all this, she is a half-doctor.
She takes excellent care of the health of the
girls, and tries to make them reasonable in
caring for themselves. She also teaches us
that we won’t have half so many ills if we
don’t think and talk about them. She in- 
sists upon more exercise than we can take,
almost, but our exercise is recreative, and part
of it is swimming in a delightful warm
swimming bath, which we continue all winter."
THE disfranchisement of the Mormons in
Idaho because of their church fealty is hav-
ing its legitimate political successor in the


pamphlet issued by the Massachusetts "Commit-
tee of one Hundred," who propose the dis-
franchisement of all Romon Catholics because
they give their highest allegiance to the Pope,
and therefore cannot any more than the
Mormons be good sectarians and citizens of
the United States." Underlying both these
cases of attempts to deprive people of political
rights because of sectarian beliefs lies partisan
politics, and every believer in individual liberty
should cry out that we are on dangerous ground.
It is just as much an objectionable union of
church and state to keep people out of political 
rights for religious beliefs as to require re-
ligious beliefs for the exercise of political rights.
On the latter much is said but it will only be the
legitimate evolution from the former, which is
now passing unchallenged. 
Woman's Tribune.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


MISCELLANEOUS.
A good deed is never lost; he who sows
courtesy reaps friendship, and he who plants
kindness gathers love.

He who has an empty cup may pray God
to fill it; he who has a full cup should pray
God for a steady hand to hold it. 

If we did but know how little some enjoy
of the great things that they possess there
would not be much envy in the world.—
Young.

In family government let this be always re-
membered—that no reproof or denunciation is
so potent as the silent influence of a good ex-
ample.—Hosea Ballou.

One of the best rules in conversation is
never to say a thing which any of the company
can reasonably wish we had rather left unsaid;
nor can there anything be well more contrary
to the ends for which people meet together
than to part unsatisfied with each other of
themselves.—Swift.

It is one of the strangest of all strange
things in life that people are not kinder to one
another. And it is beyond all understanding
why one trudges along life’s highway should
care to go out of his way to stab another, who
is doubtless having all he can do to keep up
the march and tug his gripsack along.—
Boston-Commonwealth.


PASSED	AWAY.	
	Sister Barbara Jenson of Redmond Sevier Co. departed
this life March 7, 1890, after much suffering and long sick-
ness. Sister Jenson was a native of Denmark, she was 63
years old at the time of her demise, and was the mother of
eight children seven of them are now living five sons and
two daughters; she was an affectionate wife, and wise and
loving mother; she was also a faithful worker in the
Relief Society, she has been a teacher for many years, and
was then President until her poor health would no longer
permit it Although her sufferings were long she bore them
patiently. The funeral services were held at the Redmond
school house Sunday March 10th, and although the weather
was very cold and disagreeable a large number of vehicles
followed her to her last resting place to pay the last respects
to one so good and noble, she was a true Latter-day Saint
and will be missed greatly among those of the family circle,
and also the Relief Society who held her in high esteem.
	MATILDA PETERSON, Pres. R. S. Redmond Ward.


IN MEMORIAM.
Died, at her residence in Croyden, Morgan Co. Utah,
March 30th, 1890. Sister Elizabeth Blackwell, the beloved
wife of Charles Blackwell. She leaves a husband, son and
wife and grandchildren, also other relatives and friends to
mourn her loss. She was an exemplary woman, kind


mother a loving, kind and patient wife, a consistent
Latter-day Saint.
	
Resolved, that we the sisters of the Croyden Relief
Society tender our love and esteem to the memory of our
departed sister, who has been a member of this Society
since its organization in October 1875.
	She was chosen and set apart as Secretary of the Society
and has filled her position faithfully until within a short
time of her demise.
	She also has mingled her voice in testimony of the work
of God and imparted good counsel to both old and young,
and left an example of faithfulness worthy of emulation.
	Whereas;––We feel her loss in her acustommed place
and shall miss her greatly, but we do not wish her back
but feel to say, Peace to her soul, knowing that she will
receive a reward from the Lord for her labors, and rise
with the faithful and just.
	Resolved that we spread these resolutions on the minutes
of the Relief Society, and also send them to the family of
the deceased and to the WOMAM'S EXPONENT for publica-
tion.
	'Tis well with the departed one.
		Her mortal race is run; 
	And angels waited by her side, 
		To bear her spirit home.

ELLEN THACKAREY, President
MARY HOPKINS,
HANNAH TOONE, Counselors.
ELIZABETH COTTRELL, Ass't. Sect.


OBITUARIES.	
	Died at her residence in Spanish Fork, Feb. 19th 1890,
of "La Grippe," Elizabeth Lock, beloved wife of John
Houghton and daughter of Andrew and Catherine Fergu-
son. Born Nov. 19th 1946 in Ruthergland, Scotland.
Came to Utah with her parents in 1855. Was the mother
of fourteen children, eight of whom are living. She was
a devoted wife and kind mother: a faithful Latter-day
Saint, and a teacher in the Relief Society.
	Spanish Fork, March 20th, 1890.		Com.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Through your columns we would chronicle the death of
one of our loved members, Sister Nettie Baker, the Stake Sec-
retary of our Y. L. M. I. A. who died the 2nd of January,
leaving a husband and two baby girls, one an infant.
	While we esteem death as the glorious gate to a land of
joy and beauty, yet mortality whispers words of sadness
and loneliness to loved ones left behind.
	Though earthly life lasts but an hour compared with the
great eternity, yet it seems that the human mind, clothed
in mortality cannot grasp the perfection of God's designs
and, though we fain would look beyond, our vision is often
bounded by the horizon of time.
	Considering all this, we deeply sympathize with the be-
reaved husband, family and fond parents. In regard to
absent ones, we know "They are not dead, but gone
before."
						ALICE HOYT.
Richfield, March 29, 1890.

	Died in the 66th, year of her age, at her residence in
West Bountiful Ward, Davis Co. Utah, after a long and
severe sickness, Sister Jane Argyle. She was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, March
16th 1852, in Birmingham, England, crossed the plains in
1856 with the first company of handcarts, with her hus-
band and six children, and endured bravely all the trials in-
cident to such a journey. She was a faithful Latter-day
Saint. The slightest hint of poverty or suffering would call
forth her strongest sympathies, and she was foremost in
administering to their relief and comfort; sparing herself
no trouble in the hope of benefiting others. She was a
faithful teacher in the Relief Society, always on hand to do
her duty as long as her health would permit, and to bear
a testimony to the truth of the Gospel, and to the goodness
of her Heavenly Father to her, and especially during her
illness. We mourn her departure, but we also realize that
our loss, is her eternal gain.
						L. D. MUIR,  R. S. Sec.

	Died at Brigham City, Saturday March 22, 1890. Eliza-
beth Chapple Smith, aged 74 years. Deceased was born
in Bishop's Hympton's, Devonshire, England May 4th,
1816. Received the Gospel in the year 1849: emigrated
with her family to Utah in 1871, her husband having pre-
ceded her two years to prepare a home for the family.
	It can truly be said of Sister Smith, that she was a Saint


n very deed, honest and up right in all her dealings and
generous to the needy.
	Having passed through many trials and privations in her
native land, to assist the Elders and gather to Zion, and
sad as may be the feelings of the dear ones left behind, we
cannot but rejoice to think that another faithful sister has
passed behind the vail, full of years, and good works, and
sterling integrity. She has now gone to enjoy the society
of the faithful saints, who like her have fought the good
fight and kept the faith, and endured through evil and
good report faithful to the end; resting in the glorious hope
of coming forth in the morning of the first resurrection.
		A. N. B.


TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
﻿PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE, 
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
J. V. PARKER,
Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.
	
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30, and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS
Special to the Ladies.
AT  TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114,116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 305. SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 18.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1890.		NO. 24.


CONTENTS.
	Hephzibah. Foreign Correspondence,—Lucy
M. King. Wedding Anniversary. Women Work-
ers,—J. J. Suffrage Meetings,—M. A. Y. Green-
halgh. Hawaiian Sun Myth. The Poet's Vision
and Philospher's Law,—A. B. Curtis. Miscel-
laneous. Notes and News,
	Editorial—Volume 18-19. More Anti-Mor-
mon Legislation. Birthday Celebration. Death
of Mrs. Harriet A. Snow. Forty Years Among
the Indians. An Interesting Letter,—A. M.
Wheldon. A Tribute May First,—M. O. Kelting.
	Poetry:—Dearest Write Me a Letter,—Lucy.
Changes,—Lula. May Songs.—E. B. W.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	DEAREST WRITE ME A LETTER.

	My dearest, do write me a letter,
		To comfort my heart and console,
	The joy it would bring would be greater,
		Than the wealth of silver or gold.
	Do please, ma chere, write me a letter!
		If only a small sprinkling of news,
	From most any subject or matter,
		That will help to excite or amuse.
	Tell me of our friend, the Esquire,
		And of anything else, you may choose;
	Some items of flood and of fire,
		Grant this favor, do not refuse!
	Write of dear ones;—of home, and of neighbor,
		Of their doings of good and of ill,
	And touch on the subject of labor,
		There is always a way, with a will.
	Give some of your views of the questton,
		On religion,—politics,—trade—
	Of the newest, or latest invention,
		Towards the World's Great Fair and parade
	When Suffrage will be universal,—
		And women then rightfully crowned,
	Will join in the world's grand rehearsal.
		That will bring the Millennial round.
	Now pray let the silence be broken,
		My entreaties no longer withstand,
	But send forth the much wished-for token,
		From the pen of thine own gifted hand.
				LUCY.


CHANGES.

TO MY BROTHER E. F. G. JULY, 1873.

	How we sported in the sunshine,
		How we laughed amid the storm,
	As I often closely nestled
		In your bosom safe and warm.
	You were young and I was little,
		I, your "baby sister," "pet;"
	You my brave, strong, elder brother,
		Dear, good heart, I love you yet.

	Oft I stood, a merry pleader,
		Oft you yielded to me—yes—
	Let me trace those happy memories,
		And I thiuk you will confess,
	Though you were so much my senior,
		Long our parent's only son,
	If I mostly gained my own way,
		'Twas through patience kindly won.

	Beauteous, blissful, sunny childhood,
		Peerless, priceless, joyous youth!
	Pure, unburdened, simple pleasures,
		Fraught with trust and love and truth.
	Wherefore do ye fade and vanish,
		Ere we learn to prize your worth?
	Ah! you're crowded out by changes—
		New delights, new loves find birth.


I have lost that loved position,
	And another form may rest
Loving, trusting, fond and tender,
	In your arms and on your breast.
But for me another, also,
	Lives and labors, brave aud true;
So I still am blest and happy,
	Happier e'en than then—are you?
			LULA.


[Column 1]

HEPHZIBAH.
XXI.

Misfortunes fall upon the brave and true,
	We know not how to solve the mystery;
'Tis well the future's hidden from our view,—
	Whereon is written our life's history.

	The Harvey's had arrived in Nauvoo when
great events were pending, the tranquility of
the city was much disturbed, the Prophet was
being threatened, and traitors were planning
destruction to the work of the Lord. William
Law who had been Joseph's counselor and
intimate friend had just been excommunicated
from the Church,and was the leader of a band
of wicked man who had also been Latter-day
Saints, but were now arrayed against the
Prophet and his followers.
	A newspaper was about being started by Apos-
tates to be called the "The Nauvoo Expositor"
in which all kinds of evil reports concerning
the people of Nauvoo and vicinity
would be circulated throughout the state
of Illinois arousing the indignation of the
people, and causing mobbings etc. which com-
mencing on the outskirts soon caused the people
in Nauvoo to feel that even there with a City
Charter and such protection as the law afforded
they were insecure.
	Mr. and Mrs. Harvey were filled with fear
and dismay and would not remain in Nauvoo.
	It was a time of great doubt with some of 
the half-hearted people, and the Harvey's were
afraid of losing their worldly possessions, and
finally decided to buy a farm at Laharpe
about twenty miles out from the city.
	Mrs. Harvey senior knew very well that
Hepsie would not go with them willingly for she
had heard her express herself so strongly in her
belief in the divinity of the work: one day while
making some preparations for removal Mrs.
Harvey inquired in this way "Hepsie are you
going with us out to the farm and help Harold
get a start in the world I want to get him out of
Nauvoo he's to much carried away now with
the parading and mustering of the Nauvoo
legion, standing guard at night and sleeping in
Joseph's barn when off duty. He shan't have
any of our means to waste in this manner I can
tell ye?"
	Hepsie said nothing she had learned like
Mr. Harvey that silence was best especially
if she intended to carry her point in the end
which she certainly did.
	Her silence was construed to stubbornness
and Mrs. Harvey added, "you have nothing
much of your own but what you have I shall
pack up with our things for you'll have to go
there's no other way."
	As usual when disagreeable subjects were
broached Hepsie rushed up stairs to give vent
to her grief in tears and prayers as she in-
variably did when very unhappy and now she
was full almost to bursting. She could scarcely
have answered Mrs. H.—had she tried; while
she was weeping and sobbing she heard Harold

[Column 2]

come in, she could hear his mother in her
loudest tones questioning him about going,
"And so my boy you persist in remaining in
Nauvoo whatever comes, well you will have
to stay alone, I shall take Hepsie she can't
be left alone at night, while your off on duty
as you call it, and besides she can't do any-
thing any more than a doll. I wish you
would be reasonable and come, but I know
you'll be glad to bye and bye for the worst
hasn't come yet."
	He laughed merrily and only answered her,
"well mother we shall see," and bounded up
stairs finding Hepsie in a flood of tears.
"What's the matter little one?" said he in a
voice so cheery as to make all around seem as
though a flood of sunlight broke in suddenly,
what makes you fret so much?" and he added
"you are so changed."
	"Your mother says we shall go with her to
Laharpe and leave this beautiful city where I
expected to be so happy, but I will not go I'll
give up everything first" "Everything" Harold
said, "yes Harold everything but you and my
religion." You may be called upon to do that if
you remain firm and steadfast; but never mind
cheer up, mother has to scold and use a little
authority now and then its her nature,she means
all right we'll get the best of her yet." "Come
out a little while for a walk, it will do you good,
and cheer your spirits wonderfully you get so
gloomy shut up here and I'm always away."
	They went out to gether the day was a
charming one in early June, they chose the
most beautiful paths near the river and they
conversed together more seriously upon the
principles of truth than they had ever done
before.
	While Harold had been associated with
members of the Nauvoo legion, some of them
veterans in the cause,and all staunch Latter-day
Saints, he had learned more concerning the
Gospel than ever before, and he spoke to his
wife of these things, of the principles of
eternal mariage by which husband and wife
could be joined in the holy bond of matrimony
not only for this life but for eternity to come,
forever and forever. They had wandered away
some distance from home and were in a beauti-
ful shady, grassy picturesque place near the
river; steamboats were plying up and down and
Hepsie's thoughts turned backward to the sea,
and her presentiments when a child at the sea-
shore;-but Harold could always drive away
melancholy, he was so buoyant and hopeful,
it was almost impossible to be even pensive in
his presence, and yet he was poetical; he re-
peated stanza after stanza to Hepsie during
that walk which was one of the red letter days
to her: he assured her that as soon as peace
prevailed in the city again and he could speak
to the Prophet, they would have a marriage
ceremony performed by the Prophet himself
which would unite them more closely together
and hereafter nothing could ever separate
them. They vowed eternal constancy then
and there and yet in her heart of hearts
Hepsie had those strange misgivings that had
haunted her since her first acquaintance with
Harold.
	"Little one why are you so pensive, I know
you are not happy a moment when I'm away
but only think how noble it is "to be on duty,"
and you must think of my being one to
protect our great leader and General as well as
Prophet seer and revelator." Then they talked
of Joseph his wonderful power, his magnfi-


[Column 1]

cent appearance mounted on his white horse,
giving orders to the men.
	And so they chatted until the evening shades
began to gather and they were about to turn
their steps homeward when Harold's poetic
nature burst forth in the song,

	"We parted in silence, we parted at night,
		On the banks of that lonely river;
	Where the moonbeams shed their silvery light,
		We met—and we parted forever!
	And the cold pale moon, and the stars above"
		Told many a touching story
	Of friends long passed to the kingdom of rest
		Where the soul wears its mantle of glory.

	"We parted in silence our cheeks were wet
		With the tears that were past controling
	We vowed we would never, no, never forget
		And those vows at the time were consoling.
	But the lips that echoed that vow of mine
		Are as cold as that lonely river
	And that sparkling eye, the spirits shrine,
		Has shrouded its fire forever."

	"And now on the midnight sky I look,
		And my heart grows full to weeping;
	Each star to me is a sealed book,
		Some tale of that loved one keeping.
	We parted in silence,—we parted in tears,
		On the banks of that lonely river;
	But the odor and bloom of those by-gone years
		Shall hang round its waters forever."

	The last words of the song died away upon
his lips, the voice was scarcely audible, and
the young wife was again in tears; "Let us
go home Hepsie, I ought not to have sung
that song, it always impresses me with sad
forebodings, but then I never yield to super-
stitions of any kind, we shall never be parted,
never! I pledge myself anew to you to-day,
for time and all eternity. You know I never
loved before, and it was love at first sight
with me, and you know too, that I have never
felt so sure of your love, never could quite
fathom it." "That's because its too deep
Harold! And girls are taught to hide their
love, to be undemonstrative." "Hepsie you
are evasive you do not say to me frankly,
'Harold I love you better than all else in the
world!" "But Harold, you forget I have
given up 'all else' as you say for you, and you
are all I have." "Is it not enough? Does
not every wife leave her home and friends for
her husband?" "Then you do not think I
have made a sacrifice Harold?" "Well in
one sense yes! But Hepsie there will be other
opportunities for you, and greater ones than
you would have had in a little New England
village, Mormonism opens a wide field for in-
tellectual attainments, only "we have fallen
upon troublous times" just now. I must stand
guard again to night and you will be alone up
stairs, but my heart is always with you."
This was the substance of the conversation
though much was said of their present and
future life; after their return home, and sup-
per over, Harold bade his wife "good night,"
and she was left alone. She ever remembered
that night and in after years the memory of
promises made would flash before her vivid
imagination, waking thoughts of that which
might have been, had fortune smiled upon her
youthful days, but it was not so.
	We are not giving a history, only giving
some incidents in the life of Hephzibah, and
at this time she was sorely troubled. Yet her
faith grew stronger every day in the Prophet
Joseph Smith and his divine mission and
Harold's too seemed firmer, but his mother
was now a bitter apostate; and day and night
murmured against the prophet and those
who associated with him; and repeated all the
evil reports and calumnies that were afloat.
	Since Hepsie came to Nauvoo she had been
to visit some of the company who had left the
village of B. in 1842 and among others the
young people who had married rather hastily

[Column 2]

just before coming away. She did not find
them very congenial society especially the two
young college graduates and their wives. The
eldest one whom she had ardently hoped would
have married Lucy Reynolds, informed her
that he was soon going back East with his wife
and baby; and she felt that Lucy had been
spared this sorrow at least, better be single
after a broken engagement, than have an apos-
tate husband. The other brother was not much
better, he thought of going back, to retutn
again when things had quieted down.
	Hepsie wrote to Lucy and told her of her
visit, and that the two Mr. W's. would return
home or settle somewhere in the East and pos-
sibly use an influence against the Gospel, and
warned her to beware, for they would bring
evil and false reports; they had become em-
bittered and were working against the Saints.
	Those who are familiar with the events that
took place about that time are aware how one
unpleasant occurrence followed another until
the crisis came. Hepsie was near the Main
street of the city and heard much that was
going on and she was unaccustomed to any
excitement of this nature, away from her
mother,and her husband in the midst of danger
as it seemed te her, no wonder if her whole
nervous system was shaken to its center.
There was one good sister, who sometimes
comforted her with words of faith and hope,
and whenever Harold could come home for a
few minutes she felt re-assured. Hepsie never
forgot the time the Nauvoo Expositor was
destroyed; and the feeling that prevailed among
the people.

	The facts in this case are well known to the
Saints, and we only speak of it in its effect
on Hepsie. The depression of spirits she
suffered about this time was almost beyond
endurance, she was ill in body and mind,
and yet her faith increased. She could not
but feel that a special providence was over
her; she saw very little of Harold, but
realized he was in the performance of what he
thought duty, and if she was not reconciled
to his absence, she tried to bear it courageously. 
	Mrs. Harvey had things packed up to move
away, but halted between going and staying,
wondering in which most danger was likely to
be involved. She upbraided Hepsie daily, tell-
ing her Harold would not be so headstrong in
Mormonism if it were not for her, and Hepsie
when she felt her loneliness most deeply was
rather proud of Harold's nobility in maintain-
ing his place among the young men, who were
ready to brave any danger in case of emer-
gency.
	Joseph's going to Carthage to deliver him-
self up with the others who were accused
spread dismay and consternation through the
City of Nauvoo, the people were almost wild,
hundreds yes, thousands would gladly have
gone in his stead; they mourned even then and
when the dreadful news of the massacre came
it was as if a thunderbolt had fallen in the
midst of the City, and a dark cloud hung like
a sable pall over all, that none seemed able to
pierce. The beautiful City was deluged in
tears as it were, mourning and lamentation on
every hand. Those who were there can never
forget the dreadful scenes, and it is impossible
to describe the occurrences so as to convey a
definite idea of the tragedy, to those who view
it from a distance in a pen picture.
	The people were advised to be calm, to keep
the peace and trust to the law to avenge their
wrongs, and there was less excitement than
there was agonizing sorrow. Bowed down with
grief at the cruel martyrdom of their prophet
and patriarch the Saints awaited the return of
the Apostles who were away from home at the
time with anxious expectancy. The only
Apostle there except John Taylor, who lay
wounded and helpless was Willard Richards,

[Column 3]

and the Saints listened to his advice and to
that of others who had been Joseph's staunch
friends. Shortly after the martyrdom the
Harveys left Nauvoo, but Hepsie and Harold
refused to go, notwithstanding threats and en-
treaties at the last moment from Mrs. Harvey.
They were really left almost destitute, for Mrs.
H. had carried out her intention of taking with
her, what Hepsie had brought from her own
home, at the time of her marriage. Poor
Hepsie however felt relieved when they were
gone and almost for the first time since leaving
home breathed freely. Harold was in the
gayest of spirits, he was young and strong,
and his father had given him some money, unbe-
known to his mother. They commenced
housekeeping on a very small scale, most of the
things except furniture being lent them, by a
woman Hepsie had formerly known, who lived
in an adjacent village, but was a member of
the same branch of the Church; and when
the Harveys went away she came a friend
indeed and offered them assistance, which
circumstances almost compelled them to accept.
	Harold put the money he had into a com-
mission business with two other young men
on Main Street, and he had every hope of
success in the enterprise. Hepsie had many
misgivings and presentiments, she had no idea
what kind of young men they were except that
Harold never mentioned them or wanted her
to see them. But she was now really ill, they
lived near the river bank and Hepsie began to
have the ague which more than ever increased
their troubles and embarrassments. They
were obliged to have help in the house
and week after week the poor little wife seemed
to grow weaker, paler and more helpless, she
scarcely knew when Harold came or went. He
was affectionate, tender and gentle, he used to
lift her up in his strong arms, and treat  her
as one would a child. Meantime messages
came from Laharpe begging them to leave
Nauvoo and come there, but even had Harold
wished to go, Hepsie was too ill to be moved.
	Letters came occasionally from New Eng-
land, Lucy Reynold's engagement was an-
nounced, and finally the news of her marriage
to a good young man, a member of the Church,
who had come up from New Haven to B. on
business, and fallen in love with Miss
Reynolds. Hepsie's mother wrote that she
had been obliged to put off coming to Nauvoo
in the fall as she had expected, on account of
some technicality in the law that had been
overlooked regarding the sale of the property.
Hepsie grieved for her mother, it was a great
disappointment, but she was patient and hope-
ful through all, looking back upon it after-
wards she often marveled that she survived so
many nervous shocks.
	One beautiful Sabbath morning a son was
born in that lowly home, such a wee little
thing, and the child-mother was too ill to think
at first, but bye and bye she realized that the
crisis was past, which she had been looking
forward too, and she was almost surprised to
find she was still living and Harold was there;
his the only face she recognized amongst them
all, strangers were around her bed, and she
knew by the pitying accents, and tones of
sympathy, that she had been down almost
into the valley of the shadow of death.
	Baby had soft wavy brown hair and such
lovely eyes, but he was sick too, and she
worried about him, and tried very hard to help
a little with him, but it was very little she
could do, she thought more about her mother
now, but it was all of no avail, she realized in
its fulness, what it meant to be a stranger, and
yet friends were kind. She named baby herself,
and she enjoyed having him with her, but it
was not long, for on another lovely Sabbath
morning five weeks from the day he was born
he passed peacefully away from earth, and
those who loved him so devotedly.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MAY SONGS.

The hills are gay, with flow'rs of May;
And all around, there doth abound
	The joyous notes of melody,
	Swelling in tuneful harmony;
The songs we sing, the sweets we bring,
Of flow'r and vine and garlands twine,—
	To crown our floral queen to-day,
	Our royal queen of festive May.

With roses fair, we'll wreathe her hair,
And lilies sweet, lay at her feet,
	And in the air of jocund May,
	Pour forth a gladsome roundelay,
To welcome e'en, our fairy queen,
With song-birds voice, the hills rejoice,
	Joining in chorus full and gay,
	To crown our queen in happy May.

With music glad, none need be sad,
For now we bring, the buds of Spring;
	Let joy and pleasure fill each heart,
	And innocence and grace impart,
To make this day our life portray,
An offering free of purity,
	And crown our chosen queen to-day,
	With love's sweet songs in blooming May.

We come from the hill-tops far away,
Tripping along, so blithe, and so gay;
The fairest flow'rs and sweets we bring;
With music we make the wild-woods ring,—
	To welcome the maiden May;
	For we crown our queen to-day,
The maids of honor her throne surround 
And cast their garlands upon the ground.

We search for bloom where the fairies dwell,
We hunt for buds in the shady dell;
Roses and lilies in wreaths we twine
Woven from every leaf and vine,
	To adorn the queen of May,
	Whose sceptre we own to day;
And the sweetest notes for her we sing
And our purest offerings we bring.

The maids who come from the sunny hills,
Have bathed in the sparkling, bubbling rills,
Have revel'd in loveliness, and light,
and quaff'd the nectar of dewy night;
	They have come to crown queen May,
	In their own sweet, graceful way,
The maids of beauty, lift up their voice
For the queen of May, they made their choice.

		E. B. W.
May 10, 1890.


FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR WOMEN'S EXPONENT:
	With pleasure I make a short report of the
labors and progress of the Relief Society of
the Hawaiian Mission of which a general
conference of all the branches was held April
5, at this place; out of the thirty-six branches
now organized only three were not reported in
person; indeed the zeal that was manifested by
many to come to the conference and represent
properly the Society of which they severally
form a part, that quite a number walked all
the way from Honolulu to Laie a distance of
32 miles; one woman carrying a babe of two
months old, a great part of the distance in her
arms. Another sister whose feet were so sore
having walked the whole distance, that it was
with difficulty that she could hobble up to the
pulpit to represent the Society which she pre-
sided over.
	The pride, the joy, and satisfaction coupled
with the out-pouring of the holy-spirit upon
the feeble efforts of our Hawaiian sisters to
do their part toward building up and estab-
lishing the kingdom of God on the-earth, but
adds another testimony that God is no re-
spector of persons, but blesses all without re-
gard to race, or color, who faithfully serve and


obey Him.—Three new branches were or-
ganized during this term. We now have a
membership of 748 showing an increase of
sixty-one members during the last six months
ending March 31st. The Relief Society here
is doing what the Society is doing at home,
namely relieving the poor, caring for the sick,
giving the poor a decent and respectable burial
assisting the traveling Elders, assisting to build
meeting houses, preaching the Gospel &c. &c.
Many have been converted by the sisters
traveling from house to house bearing testi-
mony and preaching the Gospel to them.
	Nearly all the branches have working meet-
ings established which forms a great factor in
obtaining means for the prosecution of their
labors. Some of their quilts are very nice and
are sought after by the well to do people pay-
ing for some as high as twenty dollars, for one
quilt. In writing about my Hawaiian sisters
I have only mentioned their acts of commenda-
tion and praise, there are two sides to a picture,
every picture has its dark side, it is much
more pleasant to look upon the bright side
and will not the great dispenser of justice take
into consideration the circumstances of all His
creatures with mercy, according to the ability
and comprehension of all His creatures. I
will close praying for the prosperity of Zion.
	Your sister in the new and everlasting cove-
nant.
		LUCY M. KING.
	Laie, Hawaiian, Islands, April 10th; 1890.


WEDDING ANNIVERSARY.

	Monday May 5, was the twenty-fourth anni-
versary of the marriage of Drs. M. B. and
Ellis R. Shipp. In the evening there was a
gathering of a few friends at their residence in
this City in honor of the happy occasion.
	The party convened in the same room where
so many years before they had begun their
wedded life.
	It was a kind of impromtu affair, and there-
fore there was only a few of the many friends,
who would otherwise have been invited to par-
ticipate in the enjoyment of the evening.
	Almost the entire evening was devoted to
music, Miss Eda Delean gave several pieces
of very difficult piano music in the manner of
a professional and was much applauded, she
also sang one or two songs very sweetly. Miss
Maude Pratt who has a full soprano voice, was
very obliging, and sang again and again, some
new pieces and other "dear old songs;" she
has an excellent voice and her singing shows
considerable cultivation. Mrs. Lizzie Felt a
favorite singer and who plays wonderfully
well on the guitar, gave some instrumental
pieces on the guitar and accompanied most of
the songs she sung also on the guitar. Her
voice is strong, full and sweet. Richard and
Bard Shipp rendered several pieces of instru-
mental music on guitar, flute, and mandolin, and
altogether it might almost be called "a musi-
cale."
	The company conversed freely, there were no
speeches or recitations, but refreshments were
daintily served with ice cream, lemonade, fruit
etc.
	It was not only the wedding day of the Drs.
but the birthday anniversary of Dr. M. B.
Shipp's father who has now reached the ad-
vanced age of eighty-two. The company was
composed mostly of old friends or more prop-
erly those who were intimately acquainted
with each other formerly, but who in these
busy days have little time for society. Mr.
and Mrs. Shipp were heartily congratulated on
having sailed safely so far over the sometimes
troublous sea of matrimony; they received
some valuable presents, souvenirs of this
pleasant mile-stone along life's journey. The
writer adds sincere congratulations to the two


Doctors and their family, and thanks for
a very pleasant evening spent among dear
friends and listening to sweet music.
		E. B. W.


WOMEN WORKERS.

	The question which is always asked, always
discussed in regard to women, and any field of
active labor in which they may desire to engage,
is, have they the physique for it? Will they
not break down under it? Does it not require
more strength than they possess? These  sym-
pathetic doubts are not expressed concerning
women who take in washing, who spend their
days in scrubbing abroad and their nights in
washing and ironing and cleaning at home,
but only when the labor competes with that of
men, in journalism for example, in medicine,
in farming, in general business, or in any
scientific pursuit.
	As long as there was a question of capacity.
that was discussed ad nauseam; now that this
has settled itself, and women are doing all
the time by the hundreds and thousands that
which it was said women could not do at all,
the old obstructive spirit appears in new guise,
and we are told that it is absurd for women to
enter upon this or that, with an organization
that is too delicate to bear continued strain.
That this kind of argument is not recognized
as arrant nonsense, is simply because some
women have allowed both physical and mental
faculties to grow so weak by want of use, that
they take their own condition as furnishing an
average, and believe it to be the normal state
of all women. If this were true, then it is
high time public opinion was aroused upon
this matter and poor women were protected and
saved for the sake of possible motherhood from
doing the drudgery of the world; from stand-
ing all day at the wash-tub, the ironing table,
from working side by side with men in the
fields, the factories, the workshop, doing as
much work at less price, and supplementing it
with as hard labor at home, while the man is
resting  or drinking up his own and the
woman's gains in a beershop.
	It is perhaps natural that men should use
every argument that presents itself against
possible encroachment on their  preserves.
But women had better inquire and find out
of what women have shown themselves capable
before deciding that women cannot do this
or that, and putting the obstacle of an adverse
opinion in the way of their advancement.
The actual truth is that women have more
continued resisting power, and more endurance
than men. They can do more kinds of work,
and keep at it longer than men. One of the
reasons is that they are more quiet, more
persistent, and do not throw away so much
nervous energy as men. There is nothing
women cannot do if they set themselves to
work to accomplish it. It is, perhaps,
fortunate for men that their desires have here-
tofore been so simple and modest in character.
With the experience of active paying work,
and the acquisition of power that it brings
the desire for appropration may come, here-
tofore a peculiarly masculine attribute, and
then—well, the experience of ancient Egypt
may be repeated in modern America.
		J. J.
The Woman's Cycle.


PUNDITA RAMABAI has started on a tour of
Hindoostan to appeal for funds in aid of her
school. She has been warmly received every
where, and at the close of a lecture which she
delivered at Hyderabad two thousand rupees
were subscribed among the audience. It is
noteworthy that a Mohammedan capital should
be among the foremost supporters of a purely
Hindu institution.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MAY 15, 1890.


VOLUME 18—19.

	The present number of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT completes the eighteenth volume and we
are sorry that the story of Hephzibah is not
finished, but we have only allowed a small portion
of the paper for its publication. However it will
be concluded very soon now, and it is to be hoped
that the subscription will not be decreased for
volume nineteen. We aim so far as practicable
to keep up with the news of woman's work and
mission in various directions, not apart from man
but as a helper and co-worker with man.
	The Relief Society Conferences general and
quarterly are found in the columns of the paper,
Primary Associations are represented therein and
woman's suffrage work finds sufficient prominence
in its pages. There is always space given to the
writings of our sisters old and young, and even
children whenever the articles are at all suitable,
as it has been the aim from the first issue to en-
courage home talent.
	In the Volumes of the EXPONENT may be found
biographical sketches of some of the leading wo-
men of Zion, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Eliza R.
Snow Smith, Zina D. H. Young, Mary Isabella
Horne, Presendia L. Kimball, Mary Ann Young,
Sarah M. Kimball and others have and will ap-
pear from time to time. The EXPONENT aims to
record the lives and noble works of the women of
the Latter-day Saints. This is the class of wo-
men who are expected to sustain it by their in-
fluence and subscription. We earnestly hope all
local agents will see that the lists are filled for
volume nineteen which will probably be the best
ever issued. The price of the paper one dollar
per year ought to bring it within reach of all those
who have a desire to subscribe for it. We shall
be very glad to hear from the agents in the various
localities throughout the Stakes of Zion, and we
most earnestly hope that persistent efforts may
be made to sustain the paper, and also increase
its size and improve it, for it is the official
organ of the Relief Society and records all events
of importance in the history of the Women of
Zion.


[Column 1]

MORE ANTI-MORMON LEGISLATION.

	The bills introduced into the Congress of the
United States this year are the most extraordi-
nary in their character and bearing of any hereto-
fore formulated. The Baskin-Cullom bill to dis-
franchise all Mormons was so extreme that there
seemed a possibility that honest men would
oppose its passage, even though the Governor of
Utah and his colleagues favored it; it is apparent
to all that the whole matter is only a political
scheme to get possession of the Territory and
carry out the wishes of the minority, who have
come here with a little temporary, official authority

[Column 2]

under pretense of enforcing law and order—
where the best of order prevailed and laws were
honored. The Edmund's bill of 1882 was cruel
in itself when it was enforced, it sent hundreds of
men to prison, and broke up families, scattering
and dividing those who were bound together by
the ties of love and friendship, and these things
were done with the pretense that fifty millions of
people in the United States were opposed to
Mormonism, "it was a loathsome ulcer" etc., etc.
The Edmund's bill did not satisfy some of these
radical "regenerators" and so it was supplemented
by the Edmund's-Tucker bill and the Woman's
Industrial Home Association; and the Edmund's-
Tucker bill was enforced and the Judges of the
Courts interpreted law and measures according to
their ideas, and in the Supreme Court of the
United States some cases were argued and
decisions given; meantime the property of the
Church was seized upon and a receiver appointed,
so that between fines, imprisonments, costs of
court, lawyer's fees, and confiscation of property,
one would think the most bitter enemies of the
people might have been satisfied; but it was not
so, though almost all the political offices were
filled by men appointed and in most instances
non-residents, yet it was not severe enough. Men
who had come here without money or influence
 clamored for place and power and failing to get
all, resorted to such methods as would rob the
Mormon people of all rights of citizenship. The
bill known as the Baskin-Cullom bill wanted
Congress to disfranchise without distinction,
every man belonging to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, for no offence what-
ever, only a standing in the Church.
	This bill extreme as it was found its supporters,
but there were some honorable men, who did not
approve it as a whole, and probably lest that bill
should not be carried through a more indirect
method was concocted to bring about the same
result. The latest is the Thomas-Edmunds bill
which gives the real control of the Territory into
the hands of seven men, the Governor and his sec-
retary and the five Commissioners. The Mormons
the veritable founders of the Territory are to be
mere automatons to be pulled by their political
wires and kept in subjection to their arbitrary will
and authority if this bill passes.
	Whereas under the control of the People's
Party, the Territory prospered and taxes were
light, and the men who had helped to make the
country understood what was necessary for the
prosperity and enterprise of the whole people,—
now instead of carrying out the measures that
secured the rights of citizenship to all, a radical
change of everything is made and an entire new
system to take the place of that which has been
successfully tried. Whether either of these bills
will pass remains to be proven. The last named
bill has been referred to the Judiciary Committee
of the Senate of which Senator Edmunds is him-
self the Chairman—and therefore leaves him in
charge of his own bill.
	Congress has been doing a great deal during
the last few years, and spending a great deal of
time discussing and considering measures to
bring the Mormons to conform to the boasted
civilization of the nineteenth century while this
peculiar people have been pursuing the even tenor
of their way in thrift, enterprise and industry and
proclaiming at home and abroad those true prin-
ciples that lie at the foundation of both the
spiritual and temporal welfare of all mankind.
Obedience to the laws of the land has always
been taught by the "Mormon" people, they have
not been rebellious, but have yielded to authority
of those appointed to office, whether they con-
sidered them able and efficient for the positions
they were chosen to fill or not.
	The Latter-day Saints acknowledge the hand
of an over-ruling Providence and feel assured
that all things will work together for good. The

[Column 3]

Scripture says "He will make the wrath of man
to praise Him nad the remainder He will re-
strain" and we know His word cannot fail there-
fore there is no need to fear, but keep in the path
of duty, which is the path of safety.


BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.

	Thursday May first was the seventieth anniver-
sary of the birth of Elder Edward Stevenson of
this City. The occasion was appropriately cele-
brated in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, which
were handsomely decorated and furnished with
luxurious easy chairs, sofas, tables etc., for the
evening's entertainment. A large and elegant
oil painting of the gentlemen in honor of whom the
party was given hung above the stand and above
were the figures May 1, 1820, and below 70—1890.
There were between two and three hundred guests
including his immediate family, relatives and
friends; there were many others that Brother and
Sister Stevenson would like to have entertained
but such very large parties are not generally as
enjoyable as where there are fewer in number
and the host and hostess can be sociable with
all.
	Brother Stevenson's daughter and husband re-
turned from New York City the same evening
after a long absence during which time the son-
in-law C. F. Wilcox had graduated from the
Medical College with honors a full fledged M. D.,
the return of the young Dr. and his wife added
much to the pleasure of the assembly.
	A programme had been prepared for the occa-
sion which was carried out in a very creditable
way, music, singing and recitations excellent;
there were also speeches from some of the
veterans present. Bishop Kesler, Bishop McRae,
and one or two others, then Elder Stevenson him-
self, in which he stated that he had been in the
Church from his childhood, and related some of
his peculiar experiences with the Prophet Joseph
and testified of his faith and so on. There were
three original poems read that were written pur-
posely to honor him, one by H. W. Naisbett, one
by Emily H. Woodmansee, and one by Mrs.
Lucy S. Clark of Farmington. They were all
very good. Sister Zina D. H. Young who had
known Brother Stevenson many years, was the
only lady speaker of the evening. She was ac-
companied there by her daughter Mrs. Zina Y.
Card who only just very recently arrived in the
City from Canada, where she has been residing
the past two or three years.
	After the programme was rendered and
speeches made, refreshments were served to all in
the Hall; it was quite an undertaking to wait
upon such a large number of guests, but the
young ladies, who had charge of this part of the
entertainment were thorough in performing their
part gracefully and well. The refreshments had
been daintly prepared, and consisted of sand-
wiches and salad, cakes of all kinds, ice cream,
candies, nuts, oranges and raisins and excellent
lemonade.
	The next in order was the presentation by
Elder H. P. Richards in an appropriate speech of
a few well chosen words, of a handsome gold-
headed cane from Brother and Sister Ezra T.
Clark of Farmington, and a luxurious and elegant
easy chair from his children who reside at Big
Cottonwood. Elder Stevenson responded in a
very happy manner and thanked the donors, and
informed them that he was still young, hale and
hearty, but perhaps ten years hence he might
need the cane and easy chair. He also expressed
himself to the assembled guests as pleased with the
honor shown him, and invited them in the most
hospitable and gracious terms to come and cele-
brate his next tenth anniversary, at which time it
was barely possible that he might need the chair
and the staff.
	An immense fruit cake was now placed upon


the table near the centre of the room; it was quite,
an elaborate [affair, frosted and ornamented and
on the top was] inscribed "E. Stevenson, May 1,
1820—1890. The cake was cut and liberally dis-
tributed [among the guests, almost every one
carrying away a piece of the birthday cake. It
was late when the company dispersed, and all
felt that it had been a very pleasant social affair.
The host and hostess managed the party in ex-
cellent taste, and it was in all respects a brilliant
success. We congratulate Brother and Sister
Stevenson on their good taste and ability to carry
out so large a party. Benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder H. P. Richards after which the
good nights were said and all went away feeling
that old ties of friendship had been renewed and
friends met friends socially without restraint or
embarrassment.
	We cordially extend through the columns of
the EXPONENT the most sincere congratulations
on having attained his seventieth year in the en-
joyment of such excellent health and spirits and
have no doubt that it is mainly due as he believes,
to his observance of the Word of Wisdom. His
health is unimpaired and his whole physique is as
perfect as that of a man of forty. May Brother
Stevenson continue to enjoy health, peace and
contentment is a most earnest prayer of the
writer, it was a time never to be forgotten by any
of those present.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DEATH OF MRS. HARRIET A. SNOW.

	Sister Harriet A. Snow, of Brigham City, wife
of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, passed away from
earth on Monday May 12, at three o'clock a.m.,
after an illness of two or three weeks, having
suffered severely from paralysis. Sister Snow's
maiden name was Squires, and she was born in
Aurora, Geauga Co., Ohio, Sept. 13, 1819. Her
suffering for a few days previous to her demise
was very great, but she bore all with that patience
aud meekness that had characterized her whole
life. During the time of her illness she was often
administered to by the Elders and received great
relief; she was a woman of implicit faith in the
power of the priesthood.
	Her children were around her and every thing
was done that the most devoted affection could
suggest to alleviate pain and soothe her distress,
and comfort the last hours of her life. She was
one of whom it may be truly said, "well done
good and faithful servant enter thou into the joy
of the Lord."
	Sister. H. A. Snow was chosen to preside over
the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake, when the
organization was effected May 14, 1878. She has
been a very efficient and active presiding officer
and in her labors among the sisters in the several
branches, and in visiting them from time to time
she won their confidence, respect and love; al-
ways wise in counsel and vigilant in the welfare
of those over whom she bad the honor to pre-
side. She will be greatly missed in the organiza-
tions, as well as by her children and grandchild-
ren, relatives and friends. She was a most affec-
tionate and tender mother, wise and judicious in
the training and management of those under her
care. Sister Snow's last visit to this City was at
the October Conference in 1889, which she very
much enjoyed. From here she went to the Manti
Temple and officiated there for some of her
kindred passed away, which was a great com-
fort. She has gone to join those gone before,
her children, parents and loved ones, and to re-
ceive the reward laid up for those, who endure
unto the end of life's pilgrimage. Sister Zina D.
H. Young was at the house at the time of Sister
Snow's death, having gone up there the day be-
fore hoping to comfort if possible those who were
so sorely afflicted at this trying time.
	To the bereaved husband and family the writer


extends her sincere sympathy and condolence,
but realizes that after a long and useful life, she
has gone to the rest that remains to the Saints of
God.

	"After the burden and heat of the day,
		The starry calm of night;
	After the rough and toilsome way
		Asleep in the robe of white."


[Column 1]

﻿FORTY YEARS AMONG THE INDIANS.

	The above is the title of a book issued from
the Juvenile Instructor Office during this Spring;
the author of the work is Daniel W. Jones, a man
well know among this people for many years past
and as the name of the book signifies, contains
his experiences among the natives, and his views
of their condition and treatment. The writer is
undoubtedly a man of great courage or he could
never have ventured into dangerous places as he
evidently has, from the thrilling episodes graphi-
cally related in his book.
	It would be quite impossible in so little space
as we have to devote to the matter to give a com-
plete review of the work, neither does the writer
think herself a competent judge of books written
upon Indian subjects. It is a theme separate and
apart almost from other literature, and requires as
much thorough attention in order to form correct
views as to master a foreign language. After
forty years practical experience with the aborigi-
nes of the Western wilds, Brother Jones ought
to be posted in regard to Indian habits and
practises. The subject is an exhaustive one, and
it is a topic that has ever presented new
phases in treating upon from the time the earliest
Pilgrims set foot on this continent. Solomon
said there was nothing new under the sun, but
there are many things new to us in the history of
the people, past and present, who formerly pos-
sessed the land of America, and Brother Jones
has discovered some of these new things and has
told them in his characteristic style.
	It requires men and women of peculiar attri-
butes and temperaments to adapt themselves
sufficiently to Indian life to get at the bottom of it
or to see through the subtlety and cunning natural
to savage nations, and be able to live among
them and help to uplift and elevate them. They
are far sighted even in their ignorance and super-
stition and are very suspicious of others therefore
men must be honest and upright who expect to
do them good in any matter whatever. They ad-
mire courage and detest cowardice; fearless,
great-souled men of splendid physique and
majestic presence are the ones likely to be well
treated by them.
	In this book there are many simple plain stories
told in a straight forward way, the facts of which
are well known to our people; and much of life
in the South which will be better appreciated by
those acquainted with the country, than one who
knows so little of what might be termed Indian
history.
	One thing may be said truthfully of this book,
open it anywhere promiscuously and you will find
the reading matter interesting at least, and often
absorbing. A book that one may pick up and
read here and there detached passages out o
chapters, must contain many rich incidents, and
on whatever subject written there would be a
charm about it, otherwise it could not interest the
reader.
	Brother Jones says of himself that his style is
peculiar and more than that the writer affirms
that it is original. It is not a copy of any other
work; and being original in style, and giving
many sides of Indian character in which the
Latter-day Saints take great interest, it should
find ready sale as no doubt it will.
	As to the author's good motives in publishing
there can be very little doubt, and whatever tends

[Column 2]

to the simplifying of  the great problem of the
Indian question must be of value and of special
worth. It seems to us a book that might do good
among the people of the United States in remov-
ing prejudice against the Indians and showing
the better side of their nature. The writer would
be very glad to see it circulated not only among
this poople but where prejudice is rife against
those, who feel they were once the rightful
owners of the soil now in the possession of the
white men.
	The heart full of sympathy instinctively ex-
claims with the poet,
	"Lo ! the poor Indian"


AN INTERESTING LETTER.

Central House, Bridgetown,
	Barbados, West Indies,
		April 2, 1890.
MY DEAR DAISIE:
	Your welcome and most interesting letter
reached me the latter part of last Jan., it was
worthy of an immediate response, but as we were
talking up a trip to the West Indies I thought you
would like better to hear from me while in foreign
parts.

	We left New York Feb., 26th, at noon on the
steamer "Finance" of the U. S. & Brazilian Mail
S. S. Line. A run of twenty four hours brought
us to Newport News, Va., where fruit trees and
spring flowers were all in bloom and the air was
soft and mild. We were delayed there three
days, taking on freight, and left in the midst of a
fearfully cold snow-storm—the severest I have
seen this winter. But a few days later we were
glad to pack away winter wraps and get on some
light, summer underwear. Seven days from New-
port News we made our second stop at the island
of St. Thomas; a Danish possession, and great
coaling station for all nationalities. Our captain
took on sufficient to run his vessel away down to
Santos, below Rio Janerio and return. Every
piece was brought on in baskets on the heads of
colored women and girls, with just a sprinkling of
men. An overseer of their own color stood at
the gang plank with a lash which he used freely
and vigorously over their backs and legs, while
the most fearful oaths fell from the lips of the wo-
men. It was a strange sight, while the sounds
almost made one's hair stand on end. It was a
glorious moonlight night and the land-locked
harbor made an exquisite picture, which we en-
joyed from the Captain's boat as he kindly took
two of us ladies ashore to wander about under
the tropical foliage and along the foreign streets,
with their quaint shops. We were now really
in the Caribbean sea and were not again out of
sight of land.
	The following evening we passed Guadaloupe
just as the moon rose behind her mountains cast-
ing a silvery track across the waters. How we
wished ourselves artists, that we might transfer to
canvas the little schooner under full sail that
flitted out of the shadow of the island, across that
shining track, and as quickly again disappeared
among the shadows! Our third stop was made
on the following morning at Martinique, the
birthplace of the empress Josephine. It was
only five o'clock, so we saw the sun rise behind
the mountains and sunlight creep over the vivid
tropical green of the island. The little city of
St. Pierre looked most picturesque and I longed
to take a run through her large cathedral, but we
only stopped about a half hour. A great, white
statue of the Virgin standing among the green
trees on the hillside, reminded us that it was a
French possession and conseqently a Roman
Catholic community. Between St. Pierre and
Port of France we passed what I believe to be


[Column 1]

﻿the veritable scene which serves as frontispiece
to Abbott's "Life of Josephine." I shall look it
up when I get home. There was a large cocoa-
nut grove on the shore at the foot of the mountain,
under whose waving fronds could be seen the
huts of the native fishermen and their nets spread
out to dry—I have seen it before, I know, in
dream, if not elsewhere.
	At evening of the same day we dropped anchor
in the open roadstead of Bridgetown. As the
"Finance" was to make a stay of several hours
we waited for the moon to rise, so that we were
wild with delight over the novelty of our drive
from the carenage to the hotel. Some how the
moonlight makes wondrously beautiful pictures
and the cacti, tall as trees, and the cocoanut and
cabbage palms shaking their long fronds in the
breezes of the trade wind, not to mention the
southern cross shining just above the horizon
made us realize that it was a bit of landscape
such as we had read and dreamed about it, but
was now to become a reality in our lives. 
	April 6th,—Easter Sunday, and the church
bells have been ringing joyous peals ever since five
o'clock. Barbados being an English possession
the blacks as well as whites belong to the church
of England. Good Friday was a genuine re-
ligious holiday, the streets being even more
quiet than on ordinary Sundays, and no business
man being allowed to let a single clerk into his
store or office on that day under a penalty of £50.
Nine tenths of this densely populated island are
blacks, or "niggers" as they are universally called.
The women dress generally in white, which not
seldom is merely a mass of rags and shreds, so
that we wonder how it is kept on; often in the
country they wear a garment made of bagging
having just a hole through which they put their
heads. They go bare-footed but always wear a
handkerchief tied over their heads. The women,
but not the men, carry all burdens on their heads
thinking nothing of starting off with a half bushel
of sweet potatoes, or eddoes, on their head to
walk miles without resting. About town they
carry wooden trays filled with every imaginable
thing, pea-nuts, glass-ware, and pottery, fancy
cakes, fruit, cocoa-nuts, guavas, water-lemons,
star-apples, star-plums, sapodilla, bananas, and
plantains, bread-fruit, yams, sugar-cane, cracked-
liquor, made of cane juice, hot-sauce, made of
peppers, great bundles of all sorts and kinds, pails
of water, bits of fire wood for their fire-pots—it is
interesting, just to stand at the window and watch
the sights. Tiny donkeys in little carts are con-
stantly clattering by, then there are great hogs-
heads of sugar drawn by five or six mules and
perhaps four or five men perched on the load, but
always with a small boy at a dead run with a lash
in hand which he incessantly applies to the backs
and sides of the poor animals. The whole island
is under high cultivation, sugar being the staple.
As we drive about it seems as though the island
was one garden of canes. We visited the estate
of Fairfield to witness the process of sugar-mak-
ing. Then we spent a whole week in the country
at the sea-side, gathering shells and bathing in
the lovely waters of the Caribbean sea, over
which Columbus sailed when making his dis-
coveries. We've also made excursions to Bath-
sheba on the Atlantic side of the island, and to
the Crane on the south shore. These latter
places we reached by rail, Barbados being the
only one of the Windward group of islands that
is so fortunate as to possess a railroad. The city
of Bridgetown has several tram-way lines also
water-works that give them an abundance of fine
water. The whole island is at present being
piped so as to furnish all the country estates and
villages with good water. It will require a year
or two more to complete the work. The amount
of buiness done here is astonishing. The road-
stead is full of shipping all the time. One day I
was told that there were one hundred and thirty

[Column 2]

seven steamers and vessels in on that day.—
Seven steamers are at this moment on their way
from New York to Barbados and yet it is almost
impossible to get or send mails. During our four
week’s stay we have sent off mail but once. That
of course has both its advantages and disad-
vantages.
	I think I must tell you about one of our all day
excursions. It was a carriage drive to St. John's
church and Codrington college. We started at
seven a. m., as the heat becomes very oppressive
after nine o'clock. We found St. John's to be a
modern and extremely pretty church in the midst
of trees and a quaint, quaint church-yard. It
stands on a high cliff some seven hundred feet
above the sea, and replaces an old church which
was destroyed in the hurricane of 1831. Then we
wandered into the rector's garden, where we dis-
covered a strange, new tree bearing great cones,
so we ventured to rap at the rectory door and ask
if we might take away a cone; well, it resulted in
being invited in and entertained by the rector's
lady with true English hospitality. A drive of
two miles brought us to the College, which we
reached just before the noon chapel service, which
we participated in, and were afterward shown
over the institution by some of the young divinity
students. It is one of the loveliest spots we've
seen—great avenues of cabbage palms, a lakelet
on the grounds,tropical plants of all kinds and the
cool thick-walled buildings, with great arches open-
ing from front to rear showing the blue, blue sea
with its mass of foam on the reefs at the foot of
the cliff. The place had for me just the same
charm as did the Armenian convent on a little
island, near Venice, where Lord Byron used to
delight in spending weeks and weeks in study.
I shall not soon forget it, nor the kind courtesy
of the students.

	I see I must hasten to a close. I do hope you
will spend the coming year in Boston, We ex-
pect to get back to Campello about June 1st,
when I shall hope to hear of your plains. We
are soon to leave this island for Martinique prob-
ably. Our plans are not very definite, as it is
hard to make steamer connections. Father,
mother and Lottie wish to be remembered.
	Yours with love,
		A. M. WHELDEN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRIBUTE MAY FIRST.

MY SISTERS DEAR:
	Oh! that this sweet month may be the happiest
of your life among the thistles and sweet flowers
of Time, soon, soon they will be faded away, but
may the pure sisterly sentiment that prompts the
hand to gather these angel-eyed comforts for you
never wither and fade, I know it cannot, a lasting
Spring will soon come to,
	Yours as ever
		M. O. KELTING.

	Every year for sometime past the writer has re-
ceived from the lady whose name is affixed to the
note above, a floral offering, and it is always ac-
companied with tender sentiments, which ever
bring pleasant thoughts. We have no words to
express the appreciation we feel for the friendship
so delicately expressed. Remembrances such as
these promote good feelings and form lasting ties
between those who have never met, but would
otherwise be strangers to each other. We shall
treasure in the storehouse of memory these happy
reminders, and if we should never meet on earth
we may know each other in the great hereafter.


[Column 1]

SUFFRAGE MEETINGS.

	A meeting of the W. S. A. of Millard Co.
was held in Holden April 15, Mrs. M. A. Y.'

[Column 2]

Greenhalgh presiding. It was well attended
the speakers were the president, Mr. A. Y.
Stephenson, and Mr. Cherrington, Mesdames
M. M. Ashley and M. Badger. All expressed
themselves in perfect sympathy with the
movement being made for obtaining the suff-
rage for women, and her political righti, thus
ensuring her freedom.
	Two meetings of the W. S. A. of Millard
Co., were held in Deseret April 16, Mrs. M.
A. Y. Greenhalgh presiding. The first meet-
ing was held at 2 30 in the Relief Society
hall, and was well attended. At 5 p.m. a
motion was made that an evening meeting
should be held in the schoolhouse at 8 p.m.
and the meeting was adjourned until that
hour.
	At the evening meeting the house was well
filled. Both meetings were opened with
prayer. The afternoon meeting Leigh Cropper
and the evening by B. W. Scott. The choir
sang several of the songs of Freedom, with
much spirit. The president gave an account
of her labors since the last meeting at Deseret,
and of her visit to Salt Lake to attend the
convention last October, she spoke at some
length on the suffrage question,and the right of
freedom for women, and the advance the
movement was making all over the world.
	The speakers in the afternoon, besides the
president, were Leigh Cropper and Joshua
Bennett, and Mesdames Cropper, Whickers,
Stocks, and Gibbs.
	In the evening the speakers were the presi-
dent, J. W. Reed and J. F. Gibbs, Mesdames
Fanny Scott, and Anna Kinder also spoke
enthusiastically in favor of equal rights for
women. The two gentlemen speakers differed
with the president, as to woman being as
strong-minded as man, or as quick of percep-
tion, but were in favor of her having the
ballot, and equal political rights with men.
The song "Lords of Creation," was charmingly
rendered by Mrs. Vilate Hawley; the choir
sang one of freedom’s songs, and the meeting
closed with prayer offered by R. S. Scott.
	A meeting of the Millard Co., W. S. A.
was held in Oak City, April 16th, Mrs. M. A.
Y. Greenhrlgh presiding. The meeting was
opened with prayer by G. Finlayson, singing
by the choir. The president stated the ob-
ject of the association, and read the constitu-
tion, this being the first meeting held in Oak
City since the organization of the W. S. A. in
Millard Co. The president addressed the
meeting at some length, upon the equal rights
question, and the emancipation of woman
from political thraldom.
	The other speakers were G. Finlayson, and
E. Roper. These gentlemen said this was the
first meeting of the W. S. A. they had at-
tended, but they were perfectly in accord
with the movement, and hoped the time was
not far distant, when women would have the
ballot; and would have equal rights with the
men.
	There was some good singing by the choir,
and a vote of thanks was tendered to the
president for her visit. The meeting termi-
nated by prayer offered by Jos. Anderson.
	A meeting of the Millard Co., W. S. A.
was held in Leamington April 17. Mrs. M.
A. Y. Greenhalgh presiding, the meeting was
fairly well attended, all present being enthusi-
astic, and earnest in advocating equal rights
for women, especially the right of suffrage.
The speakers were the president, Messrs. Neil-
son, Talbot, Textonias, and Grundald—and
Mesdames Morison, Textonias, Sorenson Han-
cock and Pay. Many of the speeches were
forcible and well delivered, showing that the
speakers had studied the subject, and felt
keenly the injustice of being deprived of the
right to the ballot.


[Column 1]

	The choir sang some of freedom's songs in
a spirited manner adding much to the interest
of the meeting. The opening prayer was
offered by Bishop Neilson, and the benediction
by B. P. Textonias. The president was in-
troduced by Mrs. Lestra Morison in a neat,
and appropriate speech.
	A meeting of the Millard Co., W. S. A. was
held at Meadow, April 30. Mrs. M. A. Y. Green-
halgh presiding. The choir sang, and prayer
was offered by H. G. Labrum. The president
gave a brief account of her journey through the
county, and expressed herself as being proud
of the manner in which all the towns had re-
sponded to the call, for meetings, and thought
that Millard would, and could, bear compari-
son with any other county in the Territory,
both as to number of meetings held during the
past eleven months and the number of names
on the list of members.
	The other speakers beside the president,
were Messrs. Beckstrand, James Duncan, David
Duncan and Hyrum Adams. Mr. Adams
gave a humorous description of woman's faults
from mother Eve down to the present time,
saying she was only a terror to the men, but
yet felt she was fully entitled to the ballot and
equal political rights, with the men. He stated
that in what he had said he had been fishing
for a reply from the president, with whom he
had often had wordy tussles on the same ques-
tion, but only for the purpose of getting her
ideas on this subject and other political and
social questions.
	The president replied in a short speech, the
little episode made the meeting lively and en-
joyable. Mrs. Jane Stewart was the only other
speaker, in a short, but effective speech she ad-
vocated the rights of her sex, and expressed a
hope that we should obtain all we asked for.
	The choir sang and the meeting was ad-
journed. Prayer being offered by E. A. Beck-
strand.
		M. A. Y. 	GREENHALGH.

A HAWAIIAN SUN MYTH.

	Ages ago there ruled over one of the "seven
isles" that now form collectively the kingdom
of Hawaii, the powerful demi-god Maui. So
great was he that the island which he governed
is known today by his name, and is second in
size and importance of them all. The island
was originally but one huge peak, rising ten
thousand feet above the sea, and Pele, the
great goddess of volcanoes, had her fiery home
in the huge crater on its summit. To the
westward rose another peak, where formerly
Pele had dwelt; and when, in the course of
centuries, the goddess abandoned the great
crater on the eastern half took up her abode
Kilauea, on Hawaii, where she yet rides on
waves of liquid fire in the incandescent lakes
of Hale-mau-mau, "the house of fire"—the slow
moving debris from the vast slopes of her
former home drove back the sea, and formed.
the low lying penninsula uniting East and
West Maui.
	The great demi-god, from whom the island
takes its name, saw each day the sun rise
from out of the vast crater on the eastern
summit; and he resolved like Joshua of old
to stop it on its course. So he prepared a net
and had it carried on the shoulders of a
thousand men, and in one night spread it from
one peak to another, until it covered the great
crater. Then he watched, and when the sun
god again arose from out the depths of that
profound abyss he found himself entangled in
the spreading mesh. In vain he sent his
fiery shafts abroad; they passed through the
deftly woven meshes without weakening them;
and so at last the sun god prayed to be re
leased.
	Maui exacted but one condition; that was,

[Column 2]

that for all future time the sun should shine
with warm but gentle power on the islands,
never shrouding his rays in mist or fog, or
causing them to beat too strongly on the
favored land. The promise given, the net was
cut away, and since then the sun has kept
its pledge. The year around it sheds its light
and life over the "seven isles," never too
warm or cold, never obscured by fogs or mists,
always beneficent and bland.		Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE POET'S VISION AND THE
PHILOSOPHER'S LAW.

	Prof. Henry Drummond has pointed out
that it frequently happens that the poet's
vision is more quick than the scientist's or the
theologian's. And history is full of proofs of
his statement, The poet's vision has been the
first to foresee many an important discovery of
science, many a Copernican revolution in
philosophy and theology. Not always true as
a hard-and-fast statement of fact are these poetic
visions, but they give to science a bias that soon
bears fruit. I suppose few of us will keep
company with Arthur Schopenhauer when he
says, "It' a single real existence, even the
most insignificant, were to be utterly annihila-
ted, the whole world would necessarily perish
with it." Much less will we assent to the con-
ceit of the great mystic, Angelus Silesius,
when he says:

	"I know God cannot live an instant without me,
	He must give up the ghost if I should cease to be."

Yet a moment's reflection upon these statements
in the light of modern science fills them with
profound significance. The little atom now
so insignificant has been a power in the world
since its earliest beginning. It has wielded
some influence, "though ever so lowly," upon
the whole world. And perhaps at some time
in its career it may have been the pivot over
which the balance, swayed toward modern pro-
gress, or it may have been the straw that
broke the camel's back. Angelus Silesius was
not an accident in his own age but a real
organic part of it. Certain forms of energy
had been preparing since creation's early morn,
to work powerfully through the mystic's brain
and nerve fiber. In a sense, then, it was no
conceit for him to say "God cannot live an
instant without me." For without him the
whole past and future history of the world
must have been changed, and changed in
utter disregard of God's fundamental law, the
law of the persistence of force.
	Before Silesius lived the above thought was
foreshadowed by a statement in the book of
Hebrews that the old patriarchs without us
cannot be made perfect. So long as time lasts
no life that bridged a portion of it is complete.
All this prepares us for that poet's vision
of the value of little things which Jesus had
"Take heed," says he "that ye despise not one
of these little ones." In these words is fore-
shadowed one of the profoundest and most
beautiful truths of modern science. Do not
despise one of these little things, for the
little and the great are so closely joined that
even a God cannot separate them. Not a
sparrow falls to the ground without our
Father's notice. The very hairs of our head are
all numbered. There is but one universe and it
is a universum. Just as the crushing of
a finger is at once reported at the brain so
that the whole self suffer—so, says science,
there is not a thing in the universe that is
isolate from the rest, but every smallest thing
is woven in the very web and woof of the
whole. Its grief, its sorrow, its joy, and its
hope are at once felt at the very core of being.
To despise the little things is to forget and
ignore this great law. Little moments little
smiles, little favors, little deeds—out of these,
worlds are made and character is builded. It

[Column 2]

was a favorite thought of the late Professor
Morris, of Michigan university, that to the
Absolute Eye nothing can be either common
place or ugly. Our training has been such that
we look upon certain animals as awkward and
hideous;but it is our training and the littleness
of our minds and hearts that incline us to
despise those animals. To God, as the Hebrew
Koheleth has said, "all things are beautiful."
And to Him no littlest, meanest thing is
despised. A universe has a use for all things,
and it is ignorance of this great and lovable
truth that makes contempt of little things so
common and so baneful in its effects. We
see in the little things only littleness, familarity,
and contempt, when we ought to find, even
here, greatness, wisdom, and praise. The poet
Chaucer saw all the beauty, tenderness, and
strength of human love in a common wild
daisy. The psalmist saw all the glory, majesty,
and royalty of his Messiah in the lily of the
valley. Jesus saw the workings of His doctrine
portrayed with marvelous accuracy and clear-
ness in the behavior of the lump of leaven which
the woman took and hid in three measures of
meal.
	It is the last straw that breaks the camel's
back. It is the push of a very small boy that
sets the great, new ship sliding gracefully
down into old ocean's waiting arms. It is the
little foxes that  spoil the vines. A fuller
knowledge must lead us forever out of the rut
of contempt for small things. The great
things of life we cannot appreciate until we
cease despising the little things. One of the
happiest freaks in Emerson's style, according
to Mr. Gannett, is his favorite habit of com-
paring great things with small. By an effort
almost divine he is ever and anon impressing
us with the magnitude and pivotal importance
of little things. "the universe" he says, "is
represented in every one of its particles.
Everything in nature contains all the powers
of nature." "The entire system of things gets
represented in every particle." "Every man is
a divinity in disguise." "Every true man a
cause, a country, and an age; requires infinite
spaces and numbers and time fully to ac-
complish his thought."

	"There is no great and no small
	To the Soul that maketh all."

We may accept Emerson's philosophy or not,
as we will, but we must admit the wisdom of
his teachings in regard to the little things.
There was no room for contempt in a soul
like Emerson's. His view was so penetrating,
deep, and broad.
	If there is one thought above another that
our larger knowledge is pressing home to us,
it is the idea of the solidarity of existence; it
is the idea that there	*	*	*
God is just as  present now as He was
when Moses prayed and Isaiah prophesied,
just as present in the shop to day as he was in
the church last Sunday, just as present in the
deed as in the prayer, in the blade of grass as
in the bleeding heart. No law is any more
isolated from another than is one family from
another in the same city. All things are laced
and interlaced; all are bound together in a
great bundle of aspiration, man with man,
sun with sun, force with force. And as this
thought grows upon us, we are more than
ever impressed that in this great system of
law, order, and organization, all things the
little as well as the great, become ministerial
in aspect.

	As Byron has said;

	I live not in myself, but I become
	Portion of that around me.

And again in the same strain he sings:

	Are not the mountaians, waves, and skies a part
	Of me and of my soul, as I of them?

		—A. B. Curtis.
	Big Rapids, Mich.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Duties are ours, events are God's.—Cecil.
	They never fall who die in a great cause.—
Byron.
	When joy's day is over faith shines through
the arctic skies like a midnight sun.
	Try to frequent the company of your betters
in books and life. That is the most wholesome
society.
	It is always good to know, if only in pass-
ing, a charming human being; it refreshes
one like flowers and woods and clear brooks.
—George Eliot.
	Hope nothing from luck, and the probability
is that you will be so prepared, forewarned,
and fore-armed, that all shallow observers
will call you lucky.—Bulwer Lytton.
	Great talents for conversation should be
attended with politeness. He who eclipses
others owes them great civilities; and what-
ever a mistaken vanity may tell us, it is better
to please in couversation than to shine in it.
	I have drunk deeply of the draught of
science; I have loved it with a passionate love,
and now I am becoming an old man; and I can
say that every discovery of science has bronght
me more nearly face to face with the love of
God.—Charles Kingsley.


WHERE WAS HER MOTHER?

	Edwin Booth has told how he lately took
occasion to reprove some silly young women
who were seeking his acquaintance, and now
George Riddle has a similar story to tell. A
gushing young girl in Chicago, a stranger to
Mr. Riddle, kept writing to him, begging an
interview. Mr. Riddle paid no attention to
her notes, till finally she called on him and
sent up her autograph album, with the request
that he would at least give her his autograph,
with a favorite sentiment. Mr. Riddle there-
upon gave her this,from "Romeo and Juliet:"

	Your love says, like an honest gentleman,
	Where-s your mother?

		—Boston Herald.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	Eleven women are on the school board in
six cities in Norway.
	Mrs. A. L. Webster edits a woman's colum
in the Oberlin (O.) Exponent.
	MRS. LOGAN is an accomplished carpenter,
and fills her house with skilful conveniences
of her own contriving.
	MISS M. A. FARWELL has opened a public
cocoonery in New Orleans, La. Silk worms
in all stages are on exhibition.
	Mrs. Grover Cleveland has been re-elected
president of the Wells College Alumnae
Association.
	The Princess of Wales is said to be in a
serious condition of health. Her increasing
deafness has resulted in fits of extreme
melancholy. She is now at Sandringham.
	MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY is in South Dakota
in the interest of the woman suffrage amend-
ment. Her address is care of Mrs. Emma S.
De Voe, Huron, So. Dak.
	Dr. Belle Smith, who is said to be only
twenty-three years old, has been appointed
resident physician of the Woman's Prison at
Sherborn, Mass.

[Column 2]

	Miss Susan B. Anthony and Mrs. Mary
Seymour Howell are addressing a series of
country conventions in South Dakota in the
interest of woman suffrage amendment.
	MISS MAY ROGERS, of Dubuque, Iowa, is
the author of a "Waverly Dictionary," in
which the 1,300 or more characters in Sir
Walter Scott's novels are all described, with
illustrative extracts from the text. The book
is said to be a complete key to Scott's works.
	Miss Braddon, less well-known as Mrs.
Maxwell, is described as fair of skin, sandy of
hair, and stout of figure. She works hard
four days of the week, and plays three days.
Among her recreations are horseback-riding,
play-going, and entertaining her friends, She
is a collector of bric-a-brac, a lover of Dickens,
a genial hostess, and an accomplished cook.
She has published more than fifty novels, is
married to her publisher, who is rich, and
after all the "copy" she has produced she still
writes a legible hand.

	In the Massacdusetts Legislature the bill
reported by the committee on taxation, impos-
ing duties upon legacies and successions,
exempts from its provisions legacies to "a
father, mother, brother, sister, child (whether
by blood or adoption,) grandfather, grand-
mother, grandchild. or daughter-in-law son-in-
law of the decedent;" but it does not exempt
legacies to a wife or to a husband. The
Boston Transcript says:
	"Considering that in very many cases the
accumulation of property by the husband is
in a large measure, if not entirely, due to the
assistance of the wife, it looks a little like in-
justice to compel the latter to pay a five per
cent. tax upon money which though it passes
to her through the form of a will, is in fact as
much hers as it was her husband's, if not
more so.  .........The bill met with opposition
because of the radical change it proposes in
our law and custom, and because, as the
officials contend, the income accruing would
be trifling and by no means commensurate to
the additional labor devolving upon probate
officers and others. If the bill receives proper
discussion. it is believed that sufficient opposi-
tion will develop to defeat its passage even in
the House."
		Woman's Journal.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister Mary
Cole, who died at Provo March 16th, 1890, after a serious
illness of three months. She was the wife of Benjamen
Cole, and was born May 29th 1830. Emigrated to Utah
in 1851, she lived in Goshen a number of years, moved to
Provo in the Spring of 1888.
	Whereas; Sister Cole was one of the first members of the
Goshen Relief Society and labored faithfully as a teacher
for many years, was also a teacher in the Sunday School
and performed these duties faithfully as far as her health
would permit; she passed through much sickness and many
trials in her family; she desired very much to go to the
Temple of the Lord and receive the blessings therein for
herself and also for the dead hut was prevented from this
great blessing by circumstances she could not overcome,
	Resolved, that we the members of the Goshen Relief
Society do appreciate the labors and faithful performance
of duty of our departed Sister.
	Resolved, that inasmuch as our heavenly Father has seen
fit to call from our midst our beloved sister we sympathize
with the husband and family in their bereavement.
	Be it further resolved, that we present a copy a of these
resolutions to the bereaved family, and preserve a copy on
the pages of our record, and that a copy be sent to the EX-
PONENT for publication.
		MARY DODDS,
		EMMA L. JENKINS,
		SARAH ROBERTS,
			Committee.


Tickets
on sale
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
J. V.	PARKER,
Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES,  RUCHES,  EMBRODERIES,
FANS,  GLOVES,  PARASOLS,
RIBBONS,  COLLARS,  TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY  GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


OBSTETRICS AND NURSING.
	Mrs. Isabella M. Lunn of Mill Creek, Salt Lake
Co., a student from Dr. Maggie C. Shipp's Obstet-
rical Class, passed a very satisfactory and rigid
examination and has also been set apart by some
of the Apostles to go forth and labor and assist
her own sex in their noble mission, in the line
marked out by her course of study.

