Summer Blossoms for the Home Vesta P. Crawford SUMMER bestows her wealth of blossoms in great variety of form and color. The garden is more brilliant than a Persian carpet. Long spikes of gladioli, flaming marigolds, radiant dahlias, rule the summer days. To lend a softer note, ruffled petunias, fragrant sweet peas, and cool, blue delphiniums decorate the borders. Summer days are marked by the petals of phlox, the scent of old-fashioned stocks, the spicy aroma of pinks and carnations. So lovely and so plentiful are the maker may bring many bouquets into the house. Each day the mantel may be decorated in a different way yellow snapdragons with white dianthus for a summer morning, blue and white bellflowers for another time. -Photograph courtesy W. Atlee Burpee - "MAYLING" MARIGOLDS An unusual arrangement of the lovely flowers named for Madame Chiang Kai Shek. Note the effective use of the white china figurines. The dining table may be made beautiful with a centerpiece of rose-colored hollyhocks: ay te a floating in a crystal bowl; or, perhaps, tray. Pansies, begonias, and the FLUFFY" CALENDULAS arranged in satin-petaled verbenas provide excel- "GLOWING GOLD" and "ORANGE Page 45] Photograph courtesy W. Atlee Burpee a dark brown wooden bowl against a cream colored lattice screen. Yellow water lilies in a cream-colored lent arrangements for the low table or bookcase. Photograph Atlee Burpee "GLOWING GOLD" CALENDULAS IN CRESCENT ARRANGEMENT The cream-colored figurine at the right makes an effective color contrast. The tray is polished wood lined with metal. The flowers are fastened to a heavy piece of curved wire. The stem of each separate blossom is cut long enough to reach the water in the metal container. Photograph courtesy W. Atlee Burpee GIANT RUFFLED SWEET PEAS IN TINTS OF BLUE AND PINK These colors are especially beautiful against the pale pink of the fluted bowl. SUMMER BLOSSOMS FOR THE HOME Photograph courtesy W. Atlee Burpee  HONEYCOMB" 453 MARIGOLDS '? PICT The white china shell bowl is placed on a white paper doily with a "bamboo" mat underneath. The figurines, used to accent the marigold arrangement, are white geese with brown and yellow feathers. The blossoms are held in place by a steel "frog" in the center of the bowl. In the midst of so much radiant color, it is possible that the homemaker may forget some of the requirements for effective flower arrangements. She may use too many different kinds of flowers in the same bouquet; she may mass the blossoms too closely together; or she may not remember that beauty can be achieved by varying the design. Many of the summer flowers are too rich in color to be used without some type of contrast. White flowers, combined with colors, not only accentuate the radiance of the more ornate blossoms, but they also give to the arrangement a look of cool- " Ness and a light and graceful touch. Gypsophila (baby's breath), white daisies, and "snow on the mountain" are some of the daintier flowers that help to make summer bouquets attractive. Many homemakers use lightcolored figurines to accent the deep tones in summer flower arrangements. White vases and bowls, white doilies and table mats, also provide a pleasing contrast. Experiment with blossoms, containers, figurines, backgrounds, mats, and doilies, until you have obtained the flower arrangements that make you happy and add loveliness to your home.