Foreign Mission Lessons
GREAT satisfaction is felt by the General Board and by the officers and members of our foreign mission Relief Societies in the fact that uniform lessons are now provided and have already been sent for next season's work. This is the first time in the history of our organization that this has been done. The lessons for the foreign missions cannot take as much space as those published in our Magazine, so the theological lessons have been abridged. Health lessons similar to those studied last year and literary lessons suitable for each country have been written. We are sure our sisters in foreign lands will be glad to know that they are studying the same theological EDITORIAL lessons as those studied by the Relief Society women throughout the Church, that the same health lessons are being taken in many countries, 245 and they will enjoy studying the literature of their own lands. May every success attend them in this work.
Leadership Week
It is always a joy to participate in the Brigham Young University Leadership Week. It has long been an outstanding event in the lives of thousands who are benefited by it. This year the theme, "The Building of Zion," was beautifully carried out. We deeply appreciate the courtesy extended by the school authorities in having a Relief Society hour each day and a beautiful display of handwork furnished by the Utah Stake. We were glad to meet so many of our Relief Society workers and hope that another year we shall be able to give more assistance in our work than we have ever done before.
A Ripe Old Age
THE "School of Maturates" of Oklahoma City of 800 members, all of whom are 70 years or over, think it is an easy thing to live to a ripe old age if you know how. These are the rules they have outlined: Take a walk in the open air each day. Keep the blood alkalinized by managed diet. Attend church or make a social call at least once a week. Pursue a personal hobby or light daily task. Maintain faith in life, people and the Infinite Goodness. Certainly these rules would make for a happy life and tend to prolong its duration.
Book Notice
THE Strange Adventures of Jimmy Microbe" written by Virginia Budd Jacobsen and Lyman L. Daines, M. D., illustrated by Kay Russon, fascinates children. They want to read it again and again. It is a most valuable aid in the formation of good health habits. Truths it so pleasingly teaches reach the child's inner consciousness and he is willing to embody them in his life. A little girl who had been forced to drink milk, after she had this book read to her, drank it willingly, as she began to realize the value of milk to her. The fact that the book points out the good as well as the bad microbes makes the children all the more alert to be careful and to protect themselves from the injurious ones. No one could read this book without gaining great benefit. Price $1.00. Deseret Book Co.
The Magazine Drive
Reports of Elko and Carlin, of the California Mission, were sent to President Hinckley, but not received by her, hence we publish them herewith: Elko, with 26 members, secured 30 subscriptions?115%. Blanche Jones, Magazine Agent. Carlin, with 16 members, secured 14 magazines?87%. Velda Giles, Magazine Agent. We congratulate these branches on their excellent work.
Lesson Department (First Week in June)
Theology and Testimony
LESSON IX
ZION'S CAMP
1. General Considerations. In order to grasp the full import of the Zion's Camp movement, it will be necessary to bear in mind the general condition of the Church at that time. It will be recalled that Oliver Cowdery and others were sent as missionaries to the Lamanites as early as the autumn of 1830. Enroute the missionaries stopped for a short time in the vicinity of Kirtland, Ohio, and established a branch of the Church. From this place they went to western Missouri where they were joined by the Prophet in July of 1831. Immediately after the arrival of the Prophet the Lord made it known that Independence, Missouri, should become the "center place" of Zion, also that the great temple should be built at that place. (See Doc. And Cov. Sec. 57.)
2. Here the Saints were solemnly commanded to keep the laws of the land, as witness the following: "Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land. Wherefore, be subject to the powers that be, until he reigns whose right it is to reign, and subdues all enemies under his feet." (Doc. And Cov. 58:21, 22.) On the second day of August, 1831, Sidney Rigdon?acting under direction of the Prophet?dedicated the land "unto the Lord for a possession and inheritance for the Saints, and for all the faithful servants of the Lord to the remotest ages of time." (See Hist. Of the Church, Vol. I, p. 196.) The following day the Prophet dedicated the temple site at Independence, and a few days later he and his companions started on their return journey to Kirtland.
3. For a short time the branch of the Church set up at Independence gained rapidly both in numbers and in local influence. The period of well-being, however, was of short duration, for trouble soon arose both from within and without. As pointed out earlier by the Prophet, the general citizenry of western Missouri was none too desirable, consisting as it did in large measure of uncultured frontiersmen, generously sprinkled with individuals seeking to evade the law.
4. Within such an environment the Saints were neither welcome nor at ease. Then too there were certain members of the Church whose wisdom was not beyond criticism. Bad feelings thus soon arose, and in November of 1833 the Saints were compelled at the hands of a merciless mob to flee from their homes in Jackson County and find what shelter they could in the country on the north side of the Missouri River. The weather was unusually severe, and in consequence the suffering was extreme. Twelve hundred souls were thus forced from their homes, many of whom died from exposure and the abuses heaped upon them by the merciless mob.
5. Origin of Zion's Camp. When LESSON DEPARTMENT word of this outrage reached the Prophet at Kirtland, he immediately set about to obtain redress for the stricken Saints. His efforts, however, were apparently of little avail. Farcical efforts were made by certain officials of Missouri to enforce the law, but of course without success.
6. Then, singularly enough, the Lord gave a revelation, in the form of a parable, containing the following: "And the lord of the vineyard said unto one of his servants: Go and gather together the residue of my servants, and take all the strength of mine house, which are my warriors, my young men, and they that are of middle age also among all my servants, who are the strength of mine house, save those only whom I have appointed to tarry; and go ye straightway unto the land of my vineyard, and redeem my vineyard; for it is mine; I have bought it with money. Therefore, get ye straightway unto my land; break down the walls of mine enemies; throw down their tower, and scatter their watchmen. And inasmuch as they gather together against you, avenge me of mine enemies, that by and by I may come with the residue of mine house and possess the land. And the servant said unto his lord: When shall these things be? And he said unto his servant: When I will; go ye straightway, and do all the things whatsoever I have commanded you. * * * And his servant went straightway, and did all the things whatsoever his lord commanded him; and after many days all things were fulfilled." (Doc. And Cov. 101:55-62.)
7. Concerning the number of those who should go up to Zion for the relief of their stricken brethren, the Lord later said: "If you cannot obtain five hundred seek diligently that peradventure you may obtain three hundred. And if ye cannot obtain three hundred, seek diligently that peradventure you may obtain one hundred." (Doc. And Cov. 103:32, 33.) The commandment was given, however, for the party not to leave with numbers less than one hundred.
8. Preparation for the Journey. On the same day that the last quoted revelation was received, namely, February 24, 1834, the High Council of the Church met at Kirtland to listen to the report of Lyman Wight and Parley P. Pratt, who had just arrived from Missouri. After the report had been heard the Prophet arose and announced that he was going to Zion to assist in its redemption. The Council sanctioned his going, and some thirty to forty of those present volunteered to accompany him. Two days thereafter he set out on a long preaching tour to obtain further volunteers, his journey taking him through various parts of Ohio and western New York.
9. On the first day of May, 1834, according to prearranged plan, the initial contingent of some twenty volunteers left Kirtland for New Portage, about fifty miles to the westward. The Prophet with a much larger company joined them at this place on the 6th. The combined companies consisted of more than one hundred thirty men, with twenty wagons for baggage and supplies. At this place the Prophet divided the Camp into groups or companies of twelve, consisting in general of the following: Two cooks, two firemen, two tent men, two watermen, one runner, two wagoners, and horsemen, and one commissary. Each company elected its own captain, who in turn assigned the men to their various posts. Arrangements were made for the Camp to arise at the sound of the morning trumpet at four o'clock. Every morning and evening the men knelt in their tents and implored the Lord for his guidance and blessing.
The March of Zion's Camp. The march of Zion's Camp thus really began from New Portage, May 8, 1834. The wagons were nearly filled with baggage, and accordingly the men had to travel mostly on foot. Moreover, the roads were in extremely poor condition, so much so that in many places it was necessary to fasten ropes to the _ wagons to haul them across rivers, through sloughs, and out of mud holes. Under such conditions progress was necessarily very difficult and slow. 11. Then too, in spite of the fact that strenuous efforts were made to obtain ample and proper food, yet at times the efforts were not successful. Moreover, it will be recalled that the Church had been organized only four years, and therefore that none of the members of the Camp had been prepared through long periods of training to endure hardship without complaint, such as more mature experience would enable them to do. 12. It is not surprising to learn, therefore, that the journey was not unmarked by complaint and dissatisfaction. Indeed on more than one occasion the unrest was sufficiently pronounced to call down a rebuke from the Lord. The Prophet relates that on one occasion discord had arisen between Sylvester Smith and others of the brethren. Although he attempted to placate those involved, yet he was unable to do so. Finding the feeling so intense he told them that misfortunes and hindrances would come upon them before they left that place. The next RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE morning almost every horse in the camp was so badly foundered that they could scarcely be led to water. 13. On one occasion the Prophet climbed to a wagon wheel and exhorted the people to faithfulness and humility. He declared that the Lord had revealed to him that a scourge would come upon the camp in consequence of factions and unruly spirits among them, and that "they would die like sheep with the rot." Nevertheless, if they would repent and humble themselves, the scourge in great measure might be turned away. (See History of the Church, Vol. II, p. 80.) 14. Twenty-one days later, June 24, 1834, cholera, in a most virulent form, broke out in the Camp, and continued its ravages for about four days, during which time fourteen of the sixty-eight saints who were attacked died. The brethren then covenanted that from that time forward they would keep the commandments of God, and the plague was stayed. (See History of Church, Vol. II, p. 120.) 15. Throughout the entire journey, the Prophet maintained the majestic leadership of his calling. Like the prophets of old, he appeared to be able to see the end from the beginning, and repeatedly promised his associates that if they would keep the commandments of God no good thing would be withheld from them. But, as compared with many of his associates he was like a giant oak among saplings. On the other hand it must not be forgotten that many of his companions were stalwart men of God. 16. The Apparent Outcome. Throughout nearly the entire journey the Camp was seriously hampered by enemies. Repeatedly spies came into Camp for the purpose of discovering its purposes and hindering LESSON DEPARTMENT ts progress. Again and again the main route of travel was not followed, so that those who were unfriendly might be avoided. As the destination was approached, conditions became even worse. 17. Meantime the Saints in Missouri had importuned the civil authorities for redress, but largely without avail. At first they were led to believe that they might be permitted to return to Jackson County, but it soon became apparent that' such was not to be the case. 18. Greatly exaggerated reports of the size and purpose of the oncoming Camp had the effect of arousing the enemies of the Church to further acts of violence. Accordingly, as the Camp neared its destination it was divided into a number of small units, and a little later disbanded. Some of its members settled in Missouri, and others returned t? their homes in the east. 19. In the expressed judgment of many of those who were not faithful to God and his cause, neither the object for which the Camp was organized nor the purpose for which the journey was made was attained. They had doubtless thought of the redemption of Zion in terms of "blaring trumpets and falling walls," but in all this they were mistaken. Instead, the Camp entered Clay County largely unheralded and unknown, only to quietly disband and return. To the unfaithful this was failure and defeat. 20. The Lord's Purpose. There can be no doubt that the outcome would have been far different if the saints of the Camp and also those residing in Missouri had been faithful to the commandments of God, as witness the following: "Were it not for the transgressions of my people, speaking concerning the Church and not individuals, they 249 might have been redeemed even now. But behold, they have not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands." (Doc. And Cov. 105:2, 3.) The Lord's promises are always contingent upon the faithfulness of those to whom they are made. He says: "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." (Doc. And Cov. 82:10. See also 124:47.) 21. Then it appears that through the entire matter the Lord also had quite another purpose. Concerning the Camp, whom he characterized as the strength of his house, he says: "Tnasmuch as there are those who have hearkened unto my words, have prepared a blessing and an endowment for them, if they continue faithful. I have heard their prayers, and will accept their offerings; and it ls expedient in me that they should be brought thus far for a trial of their faith. (Doc. And Cov. 105:18, 19.) A year later, when the Twelve Apostles and the First Quorum of the Seventy were about to be called, the Lord directed that they should be chosen from among those who had proved themselves faithful in Zion's Camp. Surely, this alone was ample justification for the entire Zion's Camp movement. God sometimes' moves in most unexpected ways to bring about his purpose. 22. In Conclusion. The facts relating to Zion's Camp would lose much of their value if the student does not apply them to his own life. It is apparent without argument that individuals must be tested and proved before they are ready to be chosen for responsible positions Moreover, the matter of proving an individual is ordinarily most accurately accomplished when he is not aware that the test is being made. 250 Most anyone would act decorously if he knew that a highly coveted award was dependent upon his conduct. It is said that the average individual reaches his best when he is on "parade," and becomes his real self when he thinks that he is unobserved. There is no escape, however, from the omniscience of God. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Explain the justice of God's statement that he is not bound when men do not obey his commandments.  . Why would it have been impossible to redeem Zion when the people were unprepared for it? 3. Enumerate the various ways in which the Zion's Camp movement tested the faith of those who participated. 4, Why are tests most reliable when they are made without the individual's knowledge? 5. Have various members of the class give their opinions of the outstanding lessons to be learned from the Zion's Camp movement. Literature (For Third Week in June) LIFE AND LITERATURE THE WORLD OF Books "Dreams, books, are each a world; and books we know Are a substantial world, pure and good. Round these, with tendrils strong as flesh and blood Our pastime and our happiness will grow." N the Book of Literature is recorded "The best that is known and thought in the world." The troubadors and minstrels of the ages have sung of man's deeds of bravery and daring. Golden ages of national expression have been embossed upon the books' eternal pages which like many-hued tapestries depict both men and climes. The cultivation of the human, mind in quest of Truth has been fearlessly pursued, and man endowed with spiritual vision has evolved and recorded systems of hope and _ philosophy. The wisdom of the ages has passed into the beings of master spirits and they have become the truth-tellers of the world. The voices that haunt ?Wordsworth. The pages of the "Book of Literature" chant a message to man bidding him "accept the holiness that makes life eternity." "Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul! As the swift seasons roll! Leave thy low-vaulted past! Let each new temple, nobler than the last, Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, Till thou at length art free, Leaving thine outworn shell by life's unresting sea." ?"The Chambered Nautilus." ~ The Adventure, Life Life is man's greatest adventure. LESSON DEPARTMENT As a traveler upon an uncharted road, he meets ever-changing horizons, physical, mental, and spiritual. By power, Man, the adventurer, becomes Man, the conqueror. As such he has sailed beyond the sunset ever in quest of "life to drink to the lees." One by one nations have become conquerors and conquered in turn. The world of thought, ever elusive, has been slowly conquered by man. Truth, the ultimate goal of understanding, has yielded but few of its treasures in conquest. Thinkers like Socrates, Galileo, and Newton have guided man to the supremacy attained in the realm of knowledge. Part of an universal plan, man has sought to understand himself and his place in the divine scheme. To know the meaning of honor, virtue, and morality was but a step in his spiritual progression; to know the ultimate destiny of man was more; "to know God and his purposes was all." From time to time, God has spoken to man of his purposes, always to the end that man attain his own perfection for ''as God is Man may become." Frigates and Chariots "There is no frigate like a book To take us lands away, Nor any courser like a page Of prancing poetry. This traverse may the poorest take Without oppress of toil; How frugal is the chariot That bears the human soul!" The words of Emily Dickenson make books the frigates and chariots of the world of literature. The world of books is a large and beautiful world, opened by the golden door of understanding. Countless have been the expressions of the wealth of this world. Horizons are pushed back as the reader becomes a world 251 citizen. There are new companions always waiting to greet the traveler. In a thousand ways the great passions that move the heart of man are revealed. The secrets of the mind and soul of humanity are awaiting the adventurer. Pleasure, information, and inspiration are the gifts of books as they interpret for us the products of civilization. The words of William Ellery Channing voices an unusual expression of appreciation: "God be thanked for books, they make us heirs of the life of the past. They give to all who will faithfully use them the spiritual presence of the best and greatest of our race. No matter how poor I am; no matter though the prosperous of my time will not enter my obscure dwelling?if Milton will sing of Paradise; and Shakespeare open to me the worlds of imagination and the workings of the human heart; if Franklin will enrich me with his practical wisdom,?I shall not pine for want of intellectual companionship." From the world of books "the soul selects its own society," and from the aspirations and experiences there recorded receives a priceless gift. "Mortal, they softly say, Peace to thy heart! We, too, yes, mortal, Have been as thou art, Hope-lifted, doubt-expressed, Seeing in part, Tried, troubled, tempted, Sustained as thou art." ?Goethe. Great literature is animated by a great purpose. "Books of Power" ?is the name given to the choicest masterpieces of the world of books. The master-spirits of literature have written for all men of all time. Homer, Dante, Shakespeare, Milton, Goethe, (to mention no others) Zee are a glorious company, their message is universal. Countless travelers have explored the world of Books. Some linger on the way and investigate many trails and paths in search of truth and beauty from the "relic wealth richer than golden nines" from the immortal singers of "the choir invisible," whose music is the gladness of the world. "Companionable Books" is the classification given by Henry Van Dyke, the American literary critic and author, to "books that will bear reading often, and the more slowly you read them the better you enjoy them; books not only tell how things look and how people behave, but also interpret nature and life to you in language of beauty and power touched with the personality of the author so that they have a real voice audible to your spirit in the silence." In a world dominated by commercialism, books are produced to sell. The vogue for "best sellers" has created a strange conflict in the realm of literature. These books may or may not have literary value. Thus, the ordinary reader is lost in the maze of contemporary books. The need for literary guidance, therefore, is a great need. Asa re-. Sult among the past decade many series of essays on books have been published, directing the reader to the choice books of the ages as: ''Companionable Books," '"The Man Behind the Book," Henry Van Dyke; "Much Loved Books," James O. Bennett; "The Delight of Great Books," John Erskine; "Modern English Books of Power," "Comfort Found in Old Books," "Great Spiritual Writers of America," George Hamilton Fitch. The essays in the series discuss the books selected by the author in the language of the layman, thus guiding the reader to understanding and appreciation. On the other hand, there 'motive. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is a definite need for guidance in the field of contemporary literature. The book review sections of many Sunday editions of newspapers and of magazines is helping much in this regard. The fact remains, however, that many such reviews are too critical for the ordinary reader. There is no more genial literary guide for the "common reader," the reader the great Samuel Johnson loved, than William Lyon Phelps. This series of essays on novelists, contemporary, English, American and Russian, are best known. His inonthly reviews of new books "As I Like It' is accepted as a dependable guide-post to follow out of the labyrinth of contemporary publications. "Behind every book is the man." Books as parts of life are never separable from the mind and character of the author. Emerson, the American philosopher and essayist in "The Uses of Great Men," eulogized the greatness of literary men and the nobility of the mission to which they are called. No great literary masterpiece can be born of an unworthy Many motives have directed individuals to authorship: interpretation of life, self-expression, pleasure of the reader, fame, economic benefit. Many masters of literature, while interpreting life, have been obliged to write for bread, while many have died in poverty, pen in hand. One is reminded what a small sum, a few pounds, Milton received for the great epic poem "Paradise Lost" in which he strove to justify the ways of God to man. Also, one remembers with what misgivings Mary Ann Evans beeame George Eliot in order to give a message to the world asking no other~ reward than to "live again in minds made better" for her effort. The most worthy of all motives for authorship must always be to interpret LESSON DEPARTMENT life. From the Greeks we learn that, the poet, his soul attuned to the infinite, received by inspiration his songs. Genius we know never made a poet alone. Today many poets are singing bravely. But the poets singing as with the works of the contemporary dramatists, novelists, essayists and biographers, must meet the standard "To open new windows to the soul" to render a worthy stewardship. The Periodical and Modern Life Modern life owes much of its vigor and versatility to the periodical. Interest in men and their affairs, social problems, science, and literature have grown as civilization has grown in complexity. From a small weekly news-letter exchange between Paris and London early in the eighteenth century the periodical industry has grown to a great commercial enterprize. Not very long since a book or a magazine subscription was a rare treasure. With what care such selections were made. How carefully was the enjoyment, information, or pleasure estimated. Today with a multiplicity of interests to cater to, an amazing service is rendered. It is true that popular demand has much to do in determining the nature and quality of magazine literature. Yet the fact remains that there is so much that is enjoyable and educational which remains for the average reader. An interesting survey conducted by the American Library Association of literary users of magazines reveals the twelve most used magazines to be as follows: American Magazine, Atlantic Monthly, Current History, Good Housekeeping, Harper's, Literary Digest, National Geographic Magazine, Popular Mechanics, St. Nicholas, Scientific American, Scribner's Magazine, World's Work. 253 This list supplemented by the well known English periodicals: Blackwood's Magazine, The Contemporary Review, The Manchester Guardian, The London Times, provide a dependable guide for the reader. An excellent guide to all magazine reading is found in "The Reader's Digest" and "The Magazine Digest" which give digests of the best articles from the chief contemporary magazines. To the Latter-day Saint there is no more worthy expression of idealism than that found in the publications of the different Church organizations. The Mission of Literature If literature is the artistic embodiment of "the best that is known and thought in the world," then its mission is that the life of man may be perfected. Through the centuries man's greatest teacher has been experience. Thus behavior patterns dominate life, national, religious, social, and family patterns. In the interest of individuality, thought and action, men have withdrawn from participation in the world of affairs. Philosophy, science, invention and literature have been enriched by intensive individualism. Today man's world grows in complexity even with each day's dawn. "To see life steadily and see it whole" must ever be the goal of individual and author alike. To be able to select from the complexities of modern life that which will contribute to the individual's highest development is a task heretofore inconceivable in difficulty. What then of the mission of literature in our world? How necessary is it that that which expresses truth or that which is beautiful in itself be chosen. Literature is a living thing, a vitalizing thing. If it is as Carlyle states, "The thought of thinking souls," it 254 is an aspiration and an inspiration. To find and reveal literature to men is the task of literary teachers and interpreters. As "the better part of every man's education is that which he gives himself" what then is the service literature can render to man? "The intelligence of man is coexistent with God." "God from on high lights up the way For man to go that's best; He makes the possibility, And Man must do the rest. "God moves by laws that never pause, In all His wide domain Man must obey the higher law or stay Where lower law doth reign." ?George H. Brimhall. Suggestions for a Program This lesson is planned to close the series "Life and Literature." During the study all types of literature, universal and national themes, and many of the great literary masters have been considered. Prophets, teachers, poets, dramatists, novelists and biographers have yielded to us inspiration, information, and enjoyment. Out of intensity of life comes worthy expression. Truly the Latter-day Saints have demonstrated this truth. To their credit much worthy literary expression has recorded their idealism and history. A program selected from this body of literature would be a fitting climax to the series "Life and Literature." On the other hand, a program could be planned using universal or national expression. (Note: Both types of program are planned for in the following outline. ) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I. Music A. 1. "O My Father," Snow. 2. "School Thy Feelings," Penrose. Searching for an answer to the great universal mystery, pre-existence, the Latter-day Saint poetess gave to the world a poem unparalleled in intensity of expression in lyric poetry. Similarly, Charles W. Penrose, out of an experience in self-discipline, was able to pen for all mankind a lesson. B. Selections from the Songs of Robert Burns. Robert Burns, a peasant, born in a cottage, known to the countryside as a philanderer and roysterer, all of a sudden broke into singing. Burns sang of the fields that nurtured him, of the women whose hearts he had broken, and of the firesides that sheltered him. His songs are his living biography. They ring with his laughter, they are marked with his tears, and are tragic records of errors and regrets, rebellion and defeat. As he sang of his own longing unfulfilled, he sang as the nightingale sings, exquisitely, sweetly. II. Reading The Parable of the Talents, New Testament. III. As a Man Thinketh No type of writing comes as directly from the mind of man as does the essay. Its appeal is to thoughtful readers. The essay, a "prose lyric" becomes to the reader an intellectual or emotional excursion with a companionable guide, an essayist. The essay is an ancient form of literature although its greatest development has occurred within the past three centuries. Hebrew literature furnishes many examples of LESSON DEPARTMENT the essay form upon subjects which deal with the problems of life? friendship, wisdom, pride, gossip, vengeance, love. Montaigne, a French lawyer, revived the form in 1580, using it for kindly comments upon the experiences of life. Today the essay is one of the most popular literary forms due largely to the vogue of the magazine into which it fits because of its nature?a short personal treatment of a subject. As the essayist says, I think, 1 feel, I grieve, I joy, I admire, I love. He sings himself as truly in prose as does the poet in lyric form. From the formal essays such titles as the following are noted: "Studies," Bacon; "Seif-Reliance," Emerson; "The Educated Man,' Newman; "American and Briton,' Galsworthy. The informal essay list contains the following of interest: "The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table," Holmes; "Who Owns the Mountains,' Van Dyke; "A Defense of Nonsense,' Chesterton; "On Doors," Morley; "Adventures in Friendship," Grayson; "The SafetyFirst Dragon," Broun. In our own Latter-day Saint literature we have had no more noted essayist than Dr. George H. Brimhall. With the genial informality of Montaigne he has commented upon everyday life and affairs; with the intensity and clarity of the unknown author of the Book of Ecclesiastes he has proclaimed moral and spiritual truths. A. Selections from the essays of Dr. George H. Brimhall, '""Long and Short Arrows:'* 1. Be Bravely Beautiful. 2. Keep Sweet. *Price $1.25, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City. Ly) 3. Tomorrow. B. Selections from essays listed in the discussion. IV. Reading?A Story Fiction, in one form or another, is the existing, dominant literary type, "Once upon a time" has attracted listeners in all ages and climes. With the desire for pleasure, the art of fiction has grown apace. Today much that is written is nothing more than a "marketable commodity." Yet the contributions of Scott, Thackeray, Eliot, Hawthorne, Dickens, Dumas are still read and enjoyed. Fiction will have a permanent place in life because what is life but Romance and Realism. The necessity is the production of the highest and best forms. The novel has been called "a pocket stage" upon which we see an interpretation of life. Imagination, the faculty of idealization and of realization, plays an important part in the structure of ideals. The value of the novel or story has in its power to give wholesome pleasure?"'intellectual and artistic luxury." A. 1. From the anthologies of our own Latter-day Saint literature select a simple story to be read which reflects the ideals of our people. B. "Quality," John Galsworthy. C. "American, Sir,' Mary Shipman Andrews. In Retrospect The simple course "Life and Literature" is ended. It has aimed to perform a single task, to look at Life through Literature, hoping that the vision of our own destiny may become clearer and that perchance some particular message of comfort may be gleaned for each individual.  Social Service. (Fourth Week in June) LOUIS PASTEUR AND HIS WORK N his introduction to one of the ] biographies of Louis Pasteur, Dr. William Osler quotes approvingly an anonymous statement which had appeared in the Spectator, an English periodical, that Pasteur "was the most perfect man who has ever entered the Kingdom of Science." This assertion was based partly on the method by which the great scientist made his discoveries, partly on the tremendous importance of his discoveries to humanity, but partly also on the fine characteristics of the man himself. Professor Thomas H. Huxley, a great English scientist, told the London Royal Society that "Pasteur's discoveries alone would suffice to cover the war indemnity of five milliards [$975,000,000] paid by France to Germany in 1870." Huxley of course was thinking only of the services of Pasteur to his country in getting rid of the silkworm disease, which had for years been ruining the silk industry, of his study of diseases of beer and wines, and of his work in saving chickens and sheep from cholera. What Pasteur did in saving human lives, by preventive and curative methods, is beyond all human computation. Yet this man, one of the humblest in spite of his great achievements, was content with less in material goods than the average Frenchman of his time. To the Emperor once, in answer to a question as to why he did not make money out of his discoveries, he answered, "In France scientists would consider that they had lowered themselves by doing 3) so. 1. Main Facts in His Life Louis Pasteur was born in 1822, and he died in 1895, at the age of seventy-three. His birth-place was Dole, in the Jura Province, France, but he grew to manhood in Arbois. His father, aman of excellent character and great common sense, was a tanner. "I owe everything to him," said the son. "When I was young, he kept me from bad company and instilled into me the habit of working and the example of the most loyal and best-filled life." Louis obtained his bachelor's degree when he was not yet eighteen years old, and his doctorate when he was twenty-six. On first graduating, he took up teaching, and he continued in that profession till he was called by the government to devote all his time to scientific research on a pension of about two thousand dollars a year. At one time he was dean of the Faculties of Science at Lille University. In his twenty-seventh year he married the daughter of M. Laurent, the Rector of the Academy of Strasburg. Pasteur was not a physician, as he had wished to be at one time in his career, although he was a member of the Medical Academy?the only one without a medical degree. He was a teacher of chemistry, in which he had specialized at school. As a student he was not particularly brilliant, not even in his favorite subject, chemistry; but this was because his mind was slow, painstaking, and accurate. He never made a positive statement till he was sure of his ground. His parents first and then his wife were forever begging him not to kill himself with work; but he himself complained that "the nights are too long for me." An enthusiastic teacher, he had at first LESSON DEPARTMENT many indifferent pupils, whom he stirred up by such concrete remarks as this: 'Where in your families will you find a young man whose curiosity and interest will not immediately be awakened when you put into his hands a potato, when with that potato he may produce sugar, with that sugar alcohol, with that alcohol ether and vinegar?" Like all great men he was fully aware of his superiority of smund. "My plan of study," he wrote to a friend, "is traced for this coming year. I am hoping to develop it shortly in the most successful manner. I think I have already told you that I am on the verge of mysteries, and that the veil which covers them is getting thinner and thinner." He worked for the future, not the present, as is evident by this: '"A man of science should think of what wiil be said of him in the following century, not of the insults or the compliments of one day." This was an obvious allusion to the opposition which he encountered during most of his life. As to his method of work, he says, "When I am in my laboratory, I begin by shutting the door on materialism and _ spiritualism; I observe facts alone; I seek but the scientific conditions under which life manifests itself."' Perhaps the highest tribute ever paid to him was in these words by M. Biot, an illustrious French scientist of his own day: "He throws light upon everything that he touches!" In these times when every one wants to know what the scientist thinks about God, it is interesting to read this from Pasteur: ''I see everywhere the inevitable expression of the Infinite in the world; through it, the supernatural is at the bottom of every heart. The idea of God is a form of the idea of the Infinite. As long as the mystery of the Infinite weighs on human thought, temples 257 will be erected,  and on the pavement of those temples, men will be seen kneeling, prostrated, annihilated in the thought of the Infinite." 2. The Old and the New Order at Grips Few conflicts in history are more thrilling to read about than the one in which Pasteur fought. Only, in his case, the contest was mostly in the mind, rather than on the battlefield. It was a death-struggle between two theories of disease?the old and the new, and the stake was the welfare of the human race. As soon as men, began to think at all about disease, they looked into the body itself for the cause, although they generally sought its cure outside. This idea came to be expressed in the phrase "'spontaneous generation." That is, it was supposed that the disease always had its origin in the body where the disease was to be found. Sometimes it was known as the "interiority" theory. Dr. Le Fort, a celebrated surgeon of Pasteur's time, put it this way: "I believe in the interiority of the principle of purulent [secreting pus] infection in certain patients; that is why I oppose the extension to surgery of the germ theory." This was said before the Medical Academy, in 1878. Another surgeon defended the traditional doctrine in the case of tuberculosis. Acting on this traditional view of disease, which was universally held at the time, surgeons took no pains to wash their hands before going from one infected patient to another, to disinfect their surgical instruments, or to see that the dressings were pure. Asa result mortality, in operation cases, was frightfully high ?often as high as sixty percent. ?At the very moment when the surgeon's art was emboldened by being able to' disregard pain, it was arrested, disconcerted, terrified by the fatal 258 failures which supervened after almost every operation." For a time certain kinds of operation were forbidden, because they were "among the attributes of the executioner.'"" In the ambulance ward, during the Franco-Prussian war, "pus seemed to germinate everywhere, as if it had been sown by the surgeon." "When an amputation seems necessary," said one surgeon, "think ten times about it, for too often, when we decide upon an operation, we sign the patient's death-warrant." Indeed, as Dr. Reclus declared, there was a tendency to look upon purulent infection "as an almost divinely instituted consequence of any operation!' Supposing that the fatal results of operations were caused by infected air in the hospital, an isolated house was obtained near Paris for the purpose. But it was soon abandoned. Ten women were taken into the place, and ten coffins were carried out. After that it was called, by the ignorant neighbors, the House of Crime! Pasteur believed the spontaneous theory of disease to be a '"'chimera." Instead he taught that "complications and infection of wounds were caused by their giving access to living organisms and _ infectious germs." Not only the surface of things, but the very air, contained germs. His constant motto was, "Seek the microbe!"' One time, when the Academy was discussing the causes of infection in recently delivered women and when one of the most weighty members was eloquently enlarging on the causes of the epidemic in lying-in hospitals, Pasteur interrupted with?'"None of those things cause the epidemic; it is the nursing and medical staff who carry the microbe from an infected *Life cf Pasteur (Vallery-Radot), pp. 234-36. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE woman to a healthy one." The orator answered, sarcastically, "I fear that microbe will never be found!" Pasteur went to the blackboard, drew a picture of the chain-like organism, and exclaimed, "There, that is what it is like!' And he spoke with such conviction as to stupefy the medical men present. It was on this germ-theory of disease that he acted when, in the late sixties, he saved the silk industry not only of France, but in many other silk-producing countries that, in 1873, he saved the cattle industry, or a very large percent of it; that, in 1880, he saved the chicken industry from ultimate' annihilation; and that, ten years before his death, he discovered the remedy for rabies. It was on this germ-theory, also, that he acted when, in the late seventies, he went to the maternity hospital in Paris, culture tube and _ sterilizing pipet in hand, and came out with ideas that were to make child-bearing comparatively safe. And it was on the basis of this theory of disease that the Pasteur Institute in Paris was established, where hydrophobia might be treated after a bite; for the great scientist had demonstrated the efficacy of his method, by saving the lives of 349 persons out of 350 who had been bitten. Gradually the ideas of Pasteur were taken up and applied by physicians and surgeons in France and other countries?elsewhere first, and then in France. One of the first to adopt the Pasteur theory was the celebrated English surgeon, Joseph Lister. ''Allow me," he said in a letter to Pasteur, in 1874, "to take this opportunity to tender you my most cordial thanks for having, by your brilliant researches, demonstrated to me the truth of the germ theory of putrifaction, and thus furnished me with the principle upon which alone the antiseptic system can be carried LESSON DEPARTMENT out. Should you at any time visit Edinburgh, it would, I believe, give you sincere gratification to seeat our hospital how largely mankind is being benefited by your labors. I need hardly add that it would afford me the highest gratification to show you how greatly surgery is indebted to, you." In the end not only medical men everywhere, but intelligent laymen, accepted the theory as a basis for action where sickness and accident of any kind were concerned. "You have done all the good a man could do on earth," declared one person, in a letter to him and signed "A Mother." "If you will, you can surely find a remedy for the horrible disease called diphtheria. Our children, to whom we teach your name as that of a great benefactor, will owe their lives to you. Forthwith Pasteur bent his efforts to that malady. Another woman handed him money enough for four scholarships "for young men _ without means," so that his work might go on after his death. At a public reception given him three years before he died, in response to the honors that rained upon him from almost every nation, the great man said humbly, "I have done what I could!" 3. Pasteur and Public Health It seems strange that not until the nineteenth century was there anything like a public-health conscience in any nation. Ancient peoples were almost oblivious to the need of a program looking to the general health. But then, even if they had had one, they would have lacked the means of satisfying this need. And the Medieval Period, with its eyes turned heavenward, actually encouraged uncleanliness and disease, as a disciplinary measure, The Dyaks of ancient Borneo used 259 to hang a string, decorated with flags, across the stream as a warning against passing into what we should call a quarantined district. In ancient Persia the magi insisted that stray hairs and nail-parings be buried with the dead, to avoid sickness. It was the Romans who first adopted the public water system for sanitary reasons, and the Greeks had the gymnasium in the Academy of Plato, the Lyceum of Aristotle, and the Cynosarges of Antisthenes. The first public measure that had in mind what we now know as public health was the quarantine against the plagues of the Middle Ages. Not, however, till the rise of modern science, when men acquired confidence in their power over nature, were their serious attempts to make the world a safer place in which to live. This confidence came through the work of such men as Cavendish in chemistry, Franklin in physics, Hutton in geology, Buffon in biology, LaPlace in mathematics and astronomy, Baerhaave in medicine, and Frank in the specific field, of health. John Howard and Elizabeth Fry, as we have seen in previous lessons, had a program in the last third of the eighteenth century for sanitary measures in connection with prisons. In the middle of the nineteenth century Lord Ashley (the Earl of Shaftsbury) extended this public health work to factory employees in England. "It was Edwin Chadwick, however," as a wrter in the Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences assures us, whose influence proved most far reaching. In 1838, while serving as secretary of the Poor Law Commission, he was struck with the extent to which sickness was a factor in producing poverty, and raised the question whether such _ sickness might not be preventable. For the first time in history physicians were employed to study systematically 260 those environmental conditions which might contribute to ill health. These investigations led in 1842 to Chadwick's Report on the Sanitary Conditions of the Laboring Population of Great Britain, which made a profound impression upon the public, both in England and abroad. It initiated a world-wide movement for water supply and sewerage and for the cleaning up of the almost unbelievable filth in the midst of which our forefathers lived?and died." These reforms, suggested by Chadwick, were carried out by John Simon, in the middle of the century. Simon himself made a report of what he had done, in 1868, two years before Pasteur established the microbe origin of disease in the silkworm. 'Twelve years after this, in 1882, Koch described the tubercule bacillus?'"thus for the first time establishing the causative agent of an important human disease." From then on progress was rapid. Bacteriological discoveries multiplied, as one scientist put it,? "like corn popping ina pan." In 1890 a public health laboratory was established by Biggs in New, York City. No longer, therefore, did progress depend upon empericism, but rather upon science mainly. "By 1900 it was clearly recognized that wise public policy demanded the creation of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE competent health authorities and the conferring upon them of ample police powers. These powers were exercised in the main along two major lines: the protection of the public against unsanitary environmental conditions and polluted or offensive food-stuffs?the public health of Chadwick; and the protection of the public against the dissemination from person to person of communicable disease?the public health of Pasteur." 1. Discuss the scientific theory discovered by Pasteur in its relation to the control of disease?tuberculosis, diphtheria, typhoid, yellow fever, child-bed fever, for instance, and to our present quarantine regulations. 2. Discuss the provisions for public health in your community or State.. 3. Summarize as nearly as you can the contribution of Pasteur to human welfare. 4, What traits of character possessed by Pasteur are to be found in the other persons discussed in this course? 5. Show that the work of all the men and women treated in this course grew out of that which Jesus did at the beginning of our Era. In what does the spirit of true religion consist? Mission Lessons LESSON IX. HEALTH AND HOME NURSING Home NurRsiNG "It may be safely said, not that the habit of ready and correct observation will by itself make us useful nurses, but that without it we shall be useless with all our devotion."?Florence Nightingale. N caring for the sick, hospitals are not always available, nor are they always desirable, so, much of this work must be done at home. Great strides have been made in home nursing, now it ls possible to care for a sick person at home in the most up-to-date and approved manner. The love and sympathy we feel for a member of the family who LESSON DEPARTMENT is very sick is very helpful in aiding him to a speedy recovery. The best medical care in the world often fails because the home nursing fails, and the person is neglected, kept in a dark room and not properly cared for. While it is true that a kind and sympathetic understanding should always exist between a sick person, and the home nurse, there are other things of vital importance to assist the patient to get well. It takes so much more than a dose of medicine to make a person well. Sanitary surroundings, fresh air, cleanliness and sunshine are of vital importance in promoting physical and mental comfort. The choice of the sick room is important. The room should be well lighted, properly heated, and as quiet as possible. The best room available should be chosen, preferably one located near the bathroom. The furnishings of the sick room should not be elaborate, but rather simple and always clean. All unnecessary articles of furniture, as draperies, pictures and rugs should be removed from the room during a prolonged illness. The linen should be clean and the bed comfortable, for these things are necessary to the physical comfort of the patient. A grate in the sick room adds much to its ventilation. In the winter-time a grate fire is cheerful and serves to burn the papers and the rags containing the discharges of the patient. A small table placed at the bed side well within the reach of the patient, is necessary to hold the small pieces of gauze or paper napkins which can be used as handkerchiefs. On this table a pitcher of water, a clean glass tumbler and articles of a personal nature may be kept. A small paper bag pinned on the side of the bed well within the reach of the patient should contain the rags 261 and other waste articles which only the patient should handle. The appearance of every sick room is greatly enhanced by a bouquet of flowers or a growing plant. A thermometer should hang in the sick room. The proper temperature of the room is vital to the comfort of the patient. This thermometer should be read frequently and a correct temperature maintained. The proper temperature of the room should be between sixty-five and seventy degrees fahrenheit. You cannot tell the temperature of a room by the way it impresses you. Sick people are very susceptible to extremes in temperature. The room should contain the right amount of moisture. Dry heat irritates the nose and throat and is very uncomfortable. The proper amount of moisture in the room may be maintained by keeping a kettle of water on the stove, or an uncovered basin of water on the gas heater or the radiator. On a very hot day the hanging of a wet sheet in the sick room will reduce the temperature of the room and supply moisture. Every sick room should be supplied with plenty of fresh circulating air. By keeping the window partly open at the top and bottom the impure air may escape from the top and the pure air may come in through the bottom opening. Fresh air does not give a person a cold. In most lung diseases and especially in pneumonia, it is necessary to keep the windows wide open, as the patient is only breathing with part of his lung and the air must be fresh and pure even in the coldest weather. At no time, however, should a patient's bed be in a draft. To avoid this it is sometimes necessary to place a blanket over the head of the bed, or to open a window in the adjoining room to secure proper 262 ventilation. Cold air must not blow directly on the patient. Flies must be kept out of the sick room. They carry disease and annoy the patient. Sunlight is a powerful disinfectant, but should never be permitted to shine directly in the eyes of the sick person. If necessary you may bandage the eyes by using a dark silk stocking, thus keeping the light out. Moist cloths should be used in dusting, and should also cover the broom so that the patient is not distressed by air laden with dust. Soiled linen and dirty dishes should not be left in the sick room. The mental comfort of a patient should always be maintained. Whispering or loud talking disturbs his peace. Family discussions and unpleasant observations disturb the patient and retard his recovery. Keep all news away from the patient that you think might upset him. Don't tell the sick person of your troubles, he has plenty of his own. Visitors are often a very disturbing problem. It is true that some sick people seem to thrive on having friends around, but in general guests are disturbing and the fewer visitors sick patients have, the better off they are. There should not be more than two visitors in the sick room at any one time. Members of the family should divide the time allotted to the caring for the patient, among themselves. It is much better that one person be responsible. "What is everybody's business, is nobody's business." A sick person may suffer neglect and confusion when all the members of the family are trying to wait upon him at once.
BATHING THE PATIENT Close the windows of the sick room twenty minutes before exposing the patient for a bath. A sick RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE person must have a daily bath unless otherwise ordered by the doctor. A bath is always refreshing. It aids the skin in getting rid of many impurities. Remember that a bath must include the care of the nose, the mouth, the eyes and the hair. And preparation for the care of these must be made before the daily bath is begun. The teeth must not be neglected, and should be cleaned daily with tooth paste and a good brush. A mouth wash must be provided. A teaspoonful of salt to a glass of water may be used for this purpose. Lemon juice and glycerine added to a glass of water also makes a very acceptable mouth wash, the proportions are lemon juice, one part, to glycerine, two parts. Boric acid solution should be made by adding two teaspoonfuls of boric acid crystals to a glass of hot water, and it can be used as a mouth wash. Rinse the mouth with one of these solutions, using cold water to cleanse the mouth afterwards. To keep the nose clean and free, especially in fever cases, vaseline or cold cream may be applied to the nostrils. If the patient's tongue is coated a mixture of equal parts of boric acid solution and lemon juice can be used to clear up the tongue. Keeping the patient's hair properly combed and brushed adds much to his comfort. This is often neglected. The sick bed should be protected during the bath by a piece of rubber sheeting. If this cannot be procured a pad of newspaper covered by a flour sack or a piece of cloth, makes a very desirable pad, especially if the cloth and the papers are basted together. A hot foot bath in bed is beneficial in case of sore throat, headaches with fever and in some lung LESSON DEPARTMENT conditions. Place the rubber sheeting under the basin. Mustard may be added to the water, not more than one teaspoonful however, which should be mixed in cold water, and added to the foot bath. It is important to keep the knees covered with a blanket while giving a foot bath. The best kind of a bath is a tub bath, but it should not be given without the consent of the doctor. In fever cases and where the patient is very sick a bed bath must be given. In bathing a patient in bed use soap and warm water, but do not allow the water to drip from the washcloth. Cleanse only one portion of the body at a time, dry thoroughly, and keep the rest of the body covered. In bathing the chest or the abdomen use very warm water and keep the unbathed portion covered. An alcohol rub after the bath is very refreshing and helpful to the sick patient. Bed sores are always distressing and painful, and must be avoided. Any sign of redness or bluish discoloration appearing in the region of the back, the shoulder blades, or the end of the spine, is a warning that a bed sore may develop. Such an area requires special treatment. It should be kept dry, rubbed frequently with alcohol, and if possible the pressure should be removed. Turn the patient over frequently, keep the bed free from crumbs and the sheets smooth and without wrinkles. Use talcum powder or olive oil to keep the sick person free from chafing. If the weight of the bed covers is distressing to any part of the body, pressure can be removed. By folding wire netting the shape desired to support the covers. 263 Convalescing patients must be taught early to care for themselves. Eating in bed is always a problem. A very acceptable table, upon which to put a patient's tray containing the food can be made by using the ironing board kept in place by two chairs one on either side of the bed. A grocery box, with the sides removed but the ends intact, may rest on the bed and serve as a bed table. Sick people must have plenty of water?a full glass of water every two hours is not too much for an adult. If a patient is vomiting, cracked ice may be held in the mouth and the thirst will not be so distressing. The question constantly arises as to how to feed the patient. In cases of light fever, it is safe to give plenty of fluids?fruit juices and water. Do not give solid food unless ordered to do so by the doctor. Patients are usually overfed. It is important that the lighter articles of diet be given, such as milk-toast, soups, jello and ice cream. These are easily digested and may be used with safety in some fever conditions. Convalescent patients improve faster if they have something interesting to do. They should be kept occupied. Puzzles, modeling, basketry, drawing, painting, dominoes, checkers, and needlework, are all useful during this important period. The patron saint of all who do home nursing is the great Florence Nightingale. She was first of all a home nurse before she became a professional nurse. Woman's place in the healing art, both at home and in hospitals, was long ago definitely established.
A Bigger Quart Every Bottle of Arden Milk More Butterfat (1.7 Ozs.) More Proteins (1.2 Ozs.) More Milk Sugar (1.7 Ozs.) More Minerals (84.5 Grns.) Call Wasatch 80 for Arden Dairy Energy Food Our fresh bread is so appetizing and nourishing. A real energy food?so rich and wholesome that you can make a total, satisfying meal with it. Try a loaf. 48 So. Main 502 So. Main 1435 So. State 3250 So. State Salt Lake City, Utah Murray, Utah Midvale, Utah Bountiful, Utah
O. P SKAGGS Efficient Service FOOD System "A Surety of Purity"
MOTOR-DRIVEN BRUSH LIGHT?EASY TO HANDLE AGREEABLY QUIET This sensational new Eureka with motor-driven brush is designed to meet the requirements of those who desire a motor-driven brush but recognize the necessity of "High Vacuum" (powerful suction) for the thorough removal of embedded dirt. Unnecessary weight and awkward size have been carefully avoided. It is quiet?agreeably quiet. The demonstration! It is spectacular?sensational?thrilling. Embedded soda fairly "boils" from the rug. Sand dances?how it dances! Surface litter?lint, hair and threads?are instantly removed by its motor-driven brush. This new Eureka cleans faster?cleans better. $5.00 Down?Balance on Easy Terms Phone for Demonstration Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. Salt Lake City, Utah
Complete Suits for Men and Women?Children's Clothing A Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices  , Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764
YES! Positions are more plentiful? BUT? The day of self-made men is past. Real opportunities are coming only to those who are prepared. PARENTS: Is your son or your daughter idly waiting for "better times"? That idleness is dangerous! Investigate the training that is offered in your school. Write for the booklet, "Planning Your Future," or visit the school while it is in session. EVERY DAY IS REGISTRATION DAY L.D.S. Business College Salt Lake City (A Department of the L. D. S. College) 70 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah Wasatch 1812
Correctness and Smartness mark all the preparations of the modern Miss for the big event of her life?her marriage. Here you will find wedding stationery entirely in keeping with the present day tempo. And prices are most reasonable. Call or write. Courteous prompt service. The Deseret News Press PIONEER PRINTERS, BINDERS, RULERS, COVER MAKERS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Best Partner in all this World is Your Wife? Plan a definite objective, then build together. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Beneficial Life Insurance is the best known silent partner to carry you on to future success. PROVIDES THE ONE POSITIVE PROGRAM FOR A DEFINITE ESTATE? If you want the best method available, have a Beneficial representative explain the contract best suited to your own desires and financial condition. There is keen satisfaction in this fact? IF IT'S A BENEFICIAL POLICY IT'S THE BEST INSURANCE YOU CAN BUY
HOME OFFICE SALT LAKE CITY J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT AXEL B. C. OHLSON, SECRETARY DAVID O. MCKAY, SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT LEO E. PENROSE, ASSISTANT SECRETARY JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR ORVAL W. ADAMS, DIRECTOR E. T. RALPHS, DIRECTOR STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIRECTOR HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT GEORGE J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT