Guides in Buying Textiles By Vilate Elliott (Director of Clothing and Textiles Brigham Young University)
THIS paper is not so much to inform you on consumer's education as it is to awaken in your minds the needs of the consumer in identifying the goods she is about to purchase, to make each of us conscious as to what we as consumers may do in aiding standardization: to make us feel the necessity of demanding more forcibly the establishment and maintenance of grades and standards for the materials we purchase: that these grades and standards be attached in plain labels to the goods for the use of the consumer in selection. Heretofore much help has been given the producer, but his technique of production has confused rather than helped the consumer to distinguish differences in makes of goods. Commercial buyers are trained specifically for the particular task of buying, while the household buyer lacks this specialized knowledge. She does not have access to the objective tests now employed by commercial buyers. For example when our government buys cloth for the army and navy it has a staff whose duty it is to test the material for fiber, weave, count of threads per inch in warp and filling, color fast to water and sun, the exact amount of remanufactured fiber used. Tests for its strength, whether it is preshrunk and various other tests not available to the private consumer. Dresses and Materials. Up to date the consumer depends on what little knowledge she has of textiles and the saleswoman who frequently is no better informed than the consumer. The saleswoman may be perfectly honest when she tells you she thinks that dress is all silk and that the silk is not weighted. The consumer likes the dress, it is the style and color she wants, it fits her and the price is right so she takes a chance on its wearing qualities, there is very little to guide either her or the saleswoman. There are some of the better grade stores that are beginning to have labels on their dresses and are willing to stand behind the goods they sell, their prices seem higher, but the amount you are likely to lose through bad buys at stores who do not stand behind a reasonable amount of wear in the goods they sell will make up the difference. If there is a label on your dress, read it carefully, read all the fine print, it may be directions for washing and pressing, GUIDES IN BUYING TEXTILES or it may have some facts about the quality of the material. Ask your saleswoman intelligent questions about fabrics and insist on definite answers. In the better stores clerks and buyers appreciate quality-minded customers and are anxious to explain good features of dress materials. Stores interested in volume sales rather than quality business, sometimes try to evade questions that customers ask. As this is often only a defense for their ignorance, you will be wise not to buy unless you can get the information to which you are entitled. Still another help in judging dresses is training yourself to know by the feel and the appearance of the material whether the quality is good or poor, I know this is difficult as the methods of deceiving are many and devious, and the purchaser finds it difficult to pick out the ones best suited to her needs, for whether a dress is good or bad depends upon its quality and whether it is suited to your needs. Good quality is easier to recognize in cottons than in most fabrics but even so you must choose with care, whether you are buying a service weight or a sheer-cotton. For dress wear, you will want a well woven material so that it will keep its shape and stand up under repeated laundering. Other points on cotton are—Is it heavily sized to make it look firm and closely woven. Rub the material between your hands, notice if little white particles of dust come to the surface, notice how the weave is affected. Heavily sized materials have no body and will not stand up after washing. Are they pre-shrunk, some cottons are stretched so excessively in the manufacture that they shrink even after several washings, but those with labels marked preshrunk are more apt to be satisfactory than those which have not been 237 subject to a shrinking process. Another important factor is fastness to color both for washing and sunfast. Colors have been perfected so much that the best fabrics are color fast. The weave is also important, a standard weave with the threads in the warp and filling very nearly the same count. Novelties are generally higher in price regardless of quality, they often require special machinery, which must be discarded when the fad is passed, this adds to the cost to the consumer; then, sometimes to produce something new and unusual the construction of yarn and the proper balance of weave is sacrificed. Choose the fabric for the qualities that give service rather than fashion alone. Good quality silk dresses are made of "pure dye" silks. By pure dye I mean a fiber that contains no more than 10% of any fiber or substance or weighting other than silk, black silk may contain 15% and still be labeled as a "pure dye." All fabrics containing more than the above-stated percentages of substances and fibers other than silk should be labeled either as "weighted silks" or as a mixture, whatever it may be. This practice is intended to protect both the manufacturer of quality silk and the consumer against cheap silks that compete unfairly with those honestly represented. "Metallic-weighted silks are often difficult to distinguish from pure dyes unless you can test samples, but make observations, read labels and ask questions. Usually heavily weighted silks are priced low in comparison with pure dyes and that is only right, because their value is less. Compare the feel and appearance of two pieces of the same type of fabric. For example weighted flat crepes have more sheen, are heavier to lift and more slippery than pure dyes; 238 satins are hardly as pliable and sheers feel more wiry and harsh when gathered up in your hand. Weighted silks cut along stitching lines and rub into shreds wherever there is friction—as under the arms, on the hips and across the shoulders. They split when simply hanging in a closet. Weighted silks are more troublesome to care for than pure dyes. Wrinkles can hardly be pressed out of them without steam, and the colors are seldom dependable. As you wear weighted silks they feel clammy next to the skin and are uncomfortable in hot weather. Weave is another point to examine when buying a silk dress. You want a weave that is firm and not likely to shift and cause ugly pulling at seams under the arms and at the hips. Shrinking and stretching are two more points to ask about when buying a silk dress. Very crinkly crepes often stretch; those made from tightly twisted yarn draw up. Dresses made of a fabric with a close, regular weave are much more likely to hold their shape. One other point, inasmuch as pure dyes is applied to rayons as well as silk, see that pure dyed silk is marked on the label. If you do not know whether the dress is silk or rayon, ask your clerk, if she does not know ask the buyer, you are entitled to the information. But this information is sometimes difficult to obtain, the following is an example: "A study of fifty ready-made silk dresses ranging in price from $2.98 to $59.50 carried out at New York University and Pennsylvania State College is interesting from the standpoint of difficulty of obtaining accurate information from salespeople. Forty-seven of the fifty clerks selling the dresses misrepresented to the purchaser the amount of weighting present in the fabrics. In some cases even the store buyer was consulted RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and failed to give the correct information. Twenty-three of the clerks stated positively that the fabrics contained no weighting, while the remainder said that they had but very small amounts, if any. Under analysis, however, it was found that the silk of only three of the dresses contained no mineral weighting. Of the remaining 47 dresses, one was found to contain 100% rayon while all but two of the others consisted of approximately one-half or more of tin-phosphate weighting." (From Coles "Standardization of Consumers' Goods.") "Honest, definite information is the best guide to both wise purchasing and wise selling."
Points To Look For When Buying A Dress
1. Style and fabrics suited to your needs.
2. A label that tells what kind of fibers make up the material.
3. Definite information about shrinkage, weighting, or sizing, and color fastness to sunlight and washing.
4. Fabrics made of durable yarns with firm, balanced weave.
5. Stapled fabrics rather than novelties, for economy.
6. All pieces cut the right way of the goods.
7. Full cut with plenty of room.
8. Neat, appropriate, and serviceable workmanship.
9. Allowances for alterations, particularly in growing girls dresses.
When your table linen is marked household linen or domestic linen or any one of the terms used other than pure linen it is not linen, the only label which means anything on linen is marked pure linen, then again it may be spun flax which is made out of the combings of the flax, such linen will eventually wear up rough with small ends and rough places showing on the surface. It is pure GUIDES IN BUYING TEXTILES linen but it will not wear or have the gloss and sheen of a linen made from the long flax threads known as line. Many times our rayons are marked on the selvage celanese, or bemberg, or tubize. If you know these names it will help you to know how to treat it; water has no effect on celanese but it weakens every other rayon; celanese must be pressed with a warm iron only while a hotter iron does not seem to affect other rayons. When we look at a blanket which seems fluffy and wooly, we feel it must belong to the sheep family but having been deceived before we are suspicious, we wonder how much cotton blood runs in its veins masquerading as all wool and a yard wide, we have no way of telling because its percent is not labeled. So often the producer by his trade names confuses the consumer instead of helping him. "Trade names may be misleading. 'Nu-grape' is not made from grapes. 'Belgen' sheets are not made in Belgium or of linen. Of 100 textiles trade terms submitted to 600 women buyers in all parts of the country, 38 were found to be misleading, 23 confusing, and 5 'more or less' misleading. Philippine mahogany is not genuine mahogany. Hudson seal is made from muskrat skins. Silk may be weighted two or three times its original weight with metallic substances. 'Part wool' blankets may contain an almost infinitesimal amount of wool." (Taken from Standardization of Consumers' Goods, by Coles.) If the consumer can identify the characteristics of the material she is about to buy it will help some, but often deliberate statements are made to deceive the public. Probably one of the most common deceptions is in fur, we are told that rabbit fur masquerades under at least seventy different names, it may be made to resemble seal, otter, or beaver, or any other of the numerous names. Its price is placed to fit the fur it represents, there is nothing to help the buyer, he must be guided by his experience or his knowledge, if he has any, of furs. Usually the furrier has masqueraded the rabbit so completely that previous experience, inspection or knowledge will be of little avail. (To be continued)
A Wish By D. S. H.
Soon the spring will come again With leaves unfolding on the trees, With flowers blooming everywhere And in the air the warm spring breeze. (How can I bear to welcome it— Enjoy its beauty and its cheer— When my brave lad who loved it too Has gone away and left me here?) Soon the spring will come again With lovers walking down the lane, Thrilled with the endless dreams of youth, Repeating still, the old refrain: (Help me, dear Lord, to understand— Cleanse me from bitterness and woe; Remembering that Thou leadest me Smiling and hopeful let me go.)