Working with the Czechoslovak Women's Council By Martha Gaeth THE Czechoslovak Women's Council is a federation of fifty-two women's organizations in Czechoslovakia with headquarters in Prague. I was first attracted to its work by the strong and winning personality of its President, Mme. F. F. Plaminkova. Like a powerful dynamo, she electrifies everything about her. To be near her is to be swept into a current of energy, activity, and accomplishment. She is fearless and frank in her statements. Her efforts in behalf of women have brought her ever increasing recognition in her country. She left the teaching ranks to enter politics. Today she is a senator and membet of the executive committee of the National Socialist Party which numbers in its ranks her illustrious countryman, Eduard Benes, Czechoslovakia's Minister of Foreign Affairs. Besides being the President of the Czechoslovak Women's Council, she is a member of the executive committees of the following organizations: International Women's Council, the Alliance for Citizenship and Equal Rights for Women, Open Door, and the Association of Business and Professional Women. She is, moreover, the Convener of the Standing Committee on Suffrage in the International Women's Council and chairman of the Committee of Enfranchised Countries in the Alliance. Is it any wonder then that I, an American citizen of Czech birth, should be attracted by so winsome and internationally minded a worker?
NOR is this the only reason why I associated myself with the Czechoslovak Women's Council. I am in hearty sympathy with its program. I firmly believe in the efficacy of women's organizations. There are plenty of sore spots in the fabric of our modern civilization that need mending by a woman's hand. Women can well contribute to education for world peace and the creation of a desirable public opinion for disarmament and more peaceful methods of settling international disputes and differences. Through the Disarmament Committee of the Women's International Organizations, much has already been done in this direction. Women can best protect children from the dangers of parental unemployment and child labor; they can best tell what is needed in their educational program. They are best fitted for improving their own working conditions, prisons, reformatory houses and penitentiary institutions for women. They can do much in raising the moral standard of youth. By nature and calling they are best adapted to improve social conditions and render help wherever it is needed. Only through organized effort will women gain equal naturalization rights with men.
MY observations have led me to conclude that womens' organizations are badly needed in Czechoslovakia to reeducate women for their new role in a democratic state. It appears to me that the relationship between men and women in 234 Czechoslovakia is not a particularly healthy one. A woman is not always treated as a man's equal. She is still kept in a harmfully subordinated and servile position in spite of the fact that constitutionally she is granted equal suffrage rights with men and that many of her country's public men are most outspoken in their high esteem of women and their equal rights. President Masaryk deplores the still prevalent condition and asks: "Why should the mother who bore the children not be equal to the father who begot them? And if a man really loves, how can he love some one beneath him? I see no difference in the intelligence of men and women." * * * Karel Capek: President Masaryk Tells His Own Story, p. 134.
I CANNOT help feel that Czech women are partly to blame for this condition. I shall never forget what took place when my son was born in Prague. Both the attending physician as well as the nurses exclaimed with a triumphant air: "A boy!" They could not understand my disappointment in not getting a longed-for daughter. Letters of congratulations from my Czech friends declared, to my surprise, that I was favored by the gods in the birth of a son. As time went on I discovered that the birth of a boy was always an occasion for greater rejoicing. It signified, in short, no worry over a future dowry. It also meant the birth of a superior creature with greater opportunities in life. From the moment, His Majesty, the Boy-Baby, makes his appearance on Czechoslovak territory, he is administered to by mother, sister, grandmother, auntie and any other female about, and later by his wife in the most servile manner to the end of his days. How any boy so brought up can possibly respect his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mother and other women and treat them as comrades in this great enterprise we call life is beyond my humble understanding. Of course, His Majesty pays the price for this wrong attitude in more than one way, but unfortunately, he does not know it. The woman remains equally ignorant of the harm she has done. This erroneous upbringing crops up most unexpectedly in a boy's life. President Gaeth tells with relish peculiar stories of his YMCA camp experiences with Czechoslovak boys. A typical American summer camp program was followed by the YMCA authorities much to the dislike of the mothers. The latter frequently visited the camp to complain about the type of menial work given their sons. One mother, for instance, was very much put out because her boy was made to peel potatoes; another because her son was made to clean his cabin. If peeling potatoes and cleaning cabins are degrading tasks for boys, then it follows naturally that women, who usually perform these tasks, are inferior beings. One also understands why so many young women shun these tasks for more masculine occupations even if these consist of mere routine office work. A boy must be brought up to esteem and appreciate these mundane home activities. Only then will women enjoy doing them and cease to be inferior for performing them.
REEDUCATION is greatly needed here and only through womens' organizations will it be effected. There is no earthly reason why Czech women or any other women, for that matter, should be kept in a servile position. It is all a matter of correct attitudes. Every woman has a birthright to her inner freedom. She can be educated in using her free will but she should THE CZECHOSLOVAK never be forced. In Czechoslovakia, just as in many other countries today, women are being denied the right to work as an economy measure. What are these young women to do when work is denied them? There are not enough men to marry them all in the first place. A goodly number of men do not make enough to support a wife and family. Many of those who can, shirk the responsibilities of the married state. Is it just to penalize the women for all these conditions? Married women, in particular, are being discriminated against. A great majority of these women in Europe work because they have to. Their wages are needed to make possible a decent standard of living for the family. If discrimination against women is carried on because there are not enough jobs to go round, that men have families to support, why not also limit the employment of those who because of accumulated wealth have no need of gainful employment? The Czechoslovak Women's Council is bending all its energies against such discrimination, considering it to be the old exploitation of the weak by the strong. There is no question about the need for increased protection of womens' rights in Europe today. When I see the plight of the European woman I cannot refrain from joining her organized ranks and doing my bit to help better her position.
THERE was still another reason why I joined the Women's Council in Czechoslovakia. I was anxious to keep our Relief Society sisters in the Czechoslovak Mission informed of all activities undertaken by their countrywomen as well as by women throughout the world, thereby making their organization serve as a window through which they not only viewed the activities of the women of the Church but of the world. This is done by making a monthly study of the Czech Bulletin, the official organ of the Czechoslovak Women's Council. A resume is prepared by one of the members and circulated to all the Relief Societies in the Mission. Questions for discussion are usually added by myself for the purpose of comparing and contrasting the women's aims with Latter-day Saint aims. They are usually in harmony, but the methods used to attain them are not always to our liking. This study is taken up during the work and business meeting. I also subscribe for the English Bulletin, the organ of the International Women's Council and add to the Czech resume any item of interest of vital importance. The discussions which these questions have motivated have proved most stimulating and have been instrumental in pointing out our Latter-day Saint ideals for womanhood in bolder relief. The sisters and friends greatly enjoy this service which relays to them the important activities of women throughout the world. There are at present three Relief Society organizations in the Czechoslovakian Mission with a total of sixty members. Their contact with the Women's Council is made possible through my direct, personal membership. As a direct member of the Council, I work with the Standing Committees on Education and Relations with Foreign Countries. My American teaching experience stands me well in the former and my knowledge of English makes me a most useful member in the latter. So far I have thoroughly enjoyed my associations with the leaders of the Czech women. I have come to understand them better and their aims as well. I enjoyed the privilege of attending the quinquennial meeting of the International Women's Council in Paris in July as a Czechoslovak delegate. As such it behooved me to prepare the English reports for the Immigration and Education Committees of the International Council. My American citizenship makes me ineligible for office in the Czechoslovak Women's Council but it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE leaves me eligible for work and there is plenty of that! Down deep in my heart is a dormant desire to have the Czechoslovak Relief Society officially affiliated with the Czechoslovak Women's Council at some future time, thereby better enabling it to make its contribution of beautiful Latter-day Saint ideals to the womanhood of Czechoslovakia.