Vol. XXII APRIL, 1935 No. 4
EDITORIAL: When April Comes
EACH month brings its delights and its special days. April is a month of gladness and of new life Each clod seems to quicken under the sun's bright rays, and seeds spring up in verdure. Trees put on their green dresses and their glorious blossoms. The churches give forth their Easter messages and from choirs everywhere the glorious tidings "He is risen" ring out. To the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the month brings its annual Conference. From all the Stakes of the Church and from many Missions come men and women hungering for the bread of life. They have a few days of rejoicing. They hear the Church Leaders give inspired admonition, counsel and direction, then they return to their homes filled and ready to take up life's labors with new courage, because they are better fitted to meet its problems. April also brings the Relief Society Conference. Practically every Stake is represented and this great work given impetus and new life. So we rejoice when April comes with its joyous inspiration and benefits.
Lessons for Next Season
WE are very pleased to announce that in our next issue (May) we shall begin publishing our lessons for next season. We are sure our class teachers, especially, will be glad to have the lessons published so much earlier than we have done heretofore, so that they can read and plan their work during the summer months. They can also see early 244 what the entire course is and make their outlines knowing what will follow. We hope our members whose subscriptions expire in the spring will renew at once, and that those who RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE are not on our mailing list will secure these Magazines as they come out, and that they will put them carefully away so that they will be ready for our study work in the fall.
"Can Nations Be Neighbors?"
WE were honored March 4th to the 6th by a visit from Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, President of the National Council of Women. She spoke on "Can Nations be Neighbors"? Before a large and deeply interested audience in the ballroom of the Hotel Utah on March 4th. She pointed out the cataclysmic changes that have taken place during the last hundred years that have brought the world closer together. Also the present conditions that must be rectified before neighborliness can exist between nations. She paid the West a tribute when she said that she felt sure leadership must come increasingly from its precincts, because the West has kept its standards more than has the East. If the United States would be a good neighbor, she said, it must first set its own house in order and add to its economic security. It must keep peace within its own borders. There are at present 13,000,000 unemployed in this country, one family out of six are on relief of some sort. Surely terrible as is the condition, thinking, determined people can remedy it. If people realized that from 1919 to 1929, 12% of every dollar earned went for taxes, in 1932 20%, in 1933 25-30%, they would pay more attention to what is going on and how the money is being expended. The education of the people is the only hope of a democracy. 200,000 rural schools have been forced to close their doors, twelve and one-quarter million children forced out of school. Greed, fear and a straight spirit of nationalism will cause war. The propaganda of munition makers is also a fruitful source of war. If we would have neighborliness, we must pay the price. We need the courage of our pioneer forefathers. We must recondition our own souls to the ideals that may flower in economic security.