Our Magazine—A Pageant By Blanche Kendall McKey In the center of the platform is a large representation of The Relief Society Magazine. This is a box-like contrivance, large enough to hold three women in tableau, with a small opening or door at the back. The front opens like the cover of a book. The Relief Society Magazine cover of May, 1933, is effective and not difficult to reproduce, The reader stands down stage in one corner of the platform and the soloist in the other. The accompanist plays softly "O My Father;" the soloist takes up the refrain, singing the song through with feeling. As the music dies out, the reader begins softly "Crossing the Bar." READER "Sunset and evening star, And one clear call for me! And may there be no moaning of the bar, When I put out to sea. But such a tide as moving seems asleep, Too full for tide or foam, When that which drew from out the boundless deep Turns again home. Twilight and evening bell, And after that the dark! And may there be no sadness of farewell When I embark; For tho' from out our bourne of Time and Place The flood may bear me far, I hope to see my Pilot face to face When I have crossed the bar." Alfred Lord Tennyson was an old man when he penned those beautiful words expressing his simple faith in a divine, merciful God. The poet had lived richly and honorably; peacefully -his eyes could close in their last sleep. To each of us at some time must come the call of "evening bell and after that the dark!' But we are prone to become so engrossed in earthly affairs that many of us seldom stop to consider why we are here or of what use is the struggle. What shall we take back with us when we turn from mortality to meet our Pilot "face to face"? Only that which we have learned from human experience; hearts filled with love and sympathy and minds stored with wisdom if we have lived abundantly. But life is too short to learn much from merely one's own experience, so we seek knowledge out of good books, for they bring us the best thoughts of all the ages. We who work in the Relief Society are proud of our magazine, unpretentious as it is. We feel that it enriches our lives in as much as it broadens our horizon by taking us into many fields,—fields of fancy and of fact. Richter has said: "There are so many tender and holy emotions flying around in our inward world, so many rich and lovely flowers spring up which bear no seed, that it was a happiness poetry was invented, which receives into its limbus all these incorporeal spirits, and the perfume of all these flowers." Let us consider for a few moments one or two of our own poets. (Soft music: "An Old-fashioned Garden." House lights are turned out, a spotlight flooding the magazine. The cover slowly opens disclosing a beautiful lady, costumed in nineteenth century dress. She sustains the tableau while the following poem is announced and read. As OUR MAGAZINE—A PAGEANT the reader's voice is heard, the soft music dies out.) READER "Bouquet" by Estelle Webb Thomas "Dear Mid-Victorian ladies, Sweet belles of yesteryear, Whose charm time's gentle traces Have rendered yet more dear. Though the rose in your cheek has faded, And your eyes less brightly shine, I will seek 'mongst your gentle numbers To find my valentine. I've a love for the old-time graces, The fragrant old bouquet That bloomed with your lovely faces, And faded so soon away. I think of my mother's garden, With its phlox and columbine Where she plucked for her boy a nose-gay— My first sweet valentine!" (Feb., 1933) (Again the soft strains of "An Oldfashioned Garden" are heard as the lady walks out of the magazine, taking her place on its left. The cover slowly closes as the music changes to the French national hymn, "Marseillais." The cover opens, disclosing a tableau of Joan of Arc. See Relief Society Magazine, Nov., 1929. Music dies out as the reader announces the title of the poem.) READER "Domremy's Maid" by Kate Thomas "Domremy's maid is standing neath a tree With listening in her eyes, and in her face A growing purpose; fingers interlace Then part to grasp the sword that is to be. England be wary, oft rebuked is pride, Better a pact with God than Burgundy. 215 There shall be once He is not on your side; Domremy's maid is standing neath a tree." (Nov., 1929) (To the music of the "Marseillais" Joan steps out of the magazine, joining the lady on the left. The cover closes and the music changes to "Come, Come, Ye Saints." When it re-opens, three pioneer ladies are discovered. Their faces reflect the spiritual message of the song. The music dies out.) READER "Pioneer Ladies" by Claire S. Boyer "Ladies linked with a pictured past, In your silver hair we see disappointment, suffering, grief, and long anxiety. In your eyes we read again, hope and courage— Sparkly beams of the faith in your heart created When you planned your fairest dreams. You are hallowed with glory And the strength of vibrant years, And we joyously salute you, Valiant, noble pioneers." (July, 1933) (Pioneer ladies join Joan of Arc, left of magazine. The cover closes, the music dies out, the house lights ccme on.) READER Delightful as poetry is, the Relief Society Magazine pursues fancy in the form of prose fiction. For a short time let us continue to be "moonlight travelers in fancy's land." (The magazine opens and a lady in modern dress enters. Coming down to the front of the platform, she announces the name and author of a story and proceeds to tell it. Any short action story would be appropriate; "Guests," by Ivy Williams Stone, June, 1933, is suggested. "The Indestructibility of Matter," by Helen Hinckley, July, 1933, is amusing and short. At the close, the young lady goes up Stage left, near the magazine. ) 216 READER Coming back to reality, let us remember that our magazine is a publication for the home, and what would the home be without good food? In turning the pages we find many helpful suggestions and wholesome, delicious recipes. (The cover opens, disclosing a girl or woman dressed as a cook. Carrying a rolling-pin or a large spoon, she comes down to front and recites.) Cook "We may live without poetry, music and art; We may live without conscience and live without heart; We may live without friends; we may live without books; But civilized man cannot live without cooks. He may live without books,—what is knowledge but grieving? He may live without hope,—what is hope but deceiving? He may live without love,—what is passion but pining? But where is the man who can live without dining?" (She crosses up stage to the right of the magazine. The cover opens again and a speaker in modern dress comes down to the front of the platform.)
SPEAKER Our magazine is filled with all kinds of articles: accounts of local, national, and world happenings; discussions of live issues; descriptions of foreign lands; ways of beautifying the home. I shall suggest briefly one short article. (Any article may be taken; "The New Jerusalem," by Frank C. Steele, June, 1933, is suggested. At the close the speaker goes up right. As she does so, the cover again opens, disclosing a second speaker, who comes down.)
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE