Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life
KEEP FIT By Lella Marler Hoggan
Guard well thy health: it is the instrument Of life, for grand and noble uses meant: The courage that through change and chance endures, And every gift of happiness secures. —Osgood Eaton Fuller.
OUR bodies are the tabernacles of our spirits. They are a most precious possession. Without them we cannot live the earth life; with them, we may go on advancing through the eternities. How prudent it is, then, that we should guard them and preserve them in soundness and in beauty. The old Greek ideal was to possess, "A sound mind in a sound body." And one of our Heavenly Father's first provisions for our welfare in these latter days, was a health program, a Word of Wisdom, for the "temporal salvation of man." They are simple rules of health, some of which, were a hundred years in advance of science when they were given to our great-grandparents. Those who have lived this Word of Wisdom have found it a promotion to their health, their success, and their happiness. Now that it has stood the test of a century, are we not brave enough to accept it and to live it? William Hawley Smith tells us that "Bodily conditions greatly modify, limit, and determine mental functionings." And just as the quality of the mind is limited and modified by the condition of the body, so is the body, in a large measure, subject to the condition of the mind. "For each bad emotion," says Elmer Gates, "there is a corresponding chemical change in the tissues of the body." Fear, anger, jealousy, every vicious emotion retards the bodily functions, poisons the blood stream, and hastens old age. While love, mirth, confidence, and every good emotion promotes health and prolongs life. Orison Swett Marden claims that a raging temper creates as much poison in the system as the cigarette. How many of us are subject to brain storms? Every condition that saps our energy or uses up our vitality needlessly, is a menace to health and life. We would not pour our valuable, fragrant perfume into leaking containers; then why should we permit our vitality to be uselessly dribbled away? Is it not more precious than any perfume? Should we not be more diligent in conserving our life forces than we are in caring for our trivial belongings?
THE Latterday Saint mothers have a full program. It is crowded to the very margin of the page. To be good wives and mothers, and at the same time, to enrich and beautify life, is no small undertaking. The Master came that we might have life more abundant. And it is 232 to drink from this fountain of joy, that we are climbing up the sunlit heights. But how can we obtain a full measure of happiness if our bodies are weary and broken? How can we play the game of life efficiently if we are contaminated with poison and fear? If we expect to gain inspiration and permanent satisfaction from our efforts, we must keep fit physically and mentally. Is it not necessary that mothers should have rest periods and a leisure time program, as well as the rest of the world?
WE burn the candle at both ends and then wonder why it is consumed so quickly. We not only use up our regular supply of energy, but we draw on our reserves from day to day, and still expect to be prepared to meet any emergency that may arise. We permit ourselves to go in debt to live from year to year, and yet hope to make an honest settlement some day. By what school of logic do we reach such conclusions? In ten or twenty years from now, our grown children may surround us with comforts and try to prolong our lives. But neither money nor effort can add one year to a life that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE has run its course. We can't reach back through the years and undo what has been foolishly done. Exhaustion is dangerous. Rest and relaxation reduce worry and renew bodily energy. How many of us know how to "let go," to close the door of the mind against all care, and revel in the sublime beauty of poetry and song? How many of us know how to "wash the slate clean" at night, and retire to our rest relaxed and unafraid, to a night of untroubled sleep and a glad awakening? Life here and now, is for our joy as well as our development. Let us learn to conserve and guard our health, that we may lengthen out the years and make them sweeter and more worth while. If we would know how best to accomplish this fine art, we may study our divinely inspired health program. It was given "for a principle with promise," a promise that is well worth the price of obedience. Health, vigor, and stamina, and hidden treasures of knowledge, are to be ours; and the destroying angel shall pass by us as in the days of ancient Israel. "The first wealth is health,' said Ralph Waldo Emerson. Shall we not then include it with our cherished treasures?