The Gate Beautiful Pageant written and arranged by Mary Fridal and Maude O. Cook, and presented at Tremonton, Utah, March 17th, 1934
(Stage in semi-darkness, figures draped in black groping in confusion. Music: "Lead Kindly Light.")
Reader: The earth lies shrouded in darkness; unfathomable mists of error engulf her; the night of apostasy hangs like a pall over the land; the sun of truth is clouded; no stars of hope gleam forth. The Cross wanes pale against the brooding waves of blackness." "The nation's bow to Satan's thrall, He fills with strife the souls of men; He seeks to blind them one and all Lest they the way to life obtain." —Joseph J. Daynes.
(Trumpet calls to attention.)
Reader: Through the impenetrable gloom, the trumpet sounds. The Voice of Prophecy is heard speaking to the nations. (Ray of light penetrates darkness. )
Voice of Prophecy (behind stage. ) Hear oh, ye heavens, and give ear oh earth, and rejoice ye inhabitants thereof. The Lord is God and beside Him there is no Savior. Great is His wisdom, marvelous are His ways, and the extent of His doings none can find out. His purposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay His hand; therefore, hearken ye people from afar and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. His voice is unto all men. Behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. The heavens shall again give light and the glory of the Lord shall fill the earth. His kingdom shall be established in the tops of the everlasting hills, and all people shall flow unto it, saying, "Come let us go up to the mountain of the Lord's house, where He will teach us His ways and we shall walk in His paths."
(Near close of this speech as figures in black are looking upward to the light and listening to voice, the curtain is drawn. As it rises the Prophet is seen kneeling in prayer and over him the Spirit of Inspiration stands with arms extended as if to bless. During this tableau, the duet, "The Morning Breaks," is sung.)
Reader: "Awake and arise, oh ye slumbering nations, The heavens fling open their portals again, The last and the greatest of all dispensations Hath burst like a dawn o'er the children of men." —Curtis.
(Curtain rises and reveals Gate Beautiful in rear center of stage, guarded by Spirit of Inspiration. Light floods stage.)
Reader: The new day has dawned. The future beckons all mankind to advance, to achieve, to press on and on and on to greater and still greater heights, for "The glory of God is Intelligence." Into the light of the new day comes woman to the Gate Beautiful, begging to pass beyond its sacred portals. From time unmeasured the heavy hand of ignorance and superstition had been over her to bind, and shackle, and oppress. Now shrinking and half afraid she pleads that THE GATE BEAUTIFUL she might enter into the new day of hope and promise. (Woman enters at rear of stage and comes begging to Gate Beautiful. As reader says, "To bind, and shackle, etc.," figures in grey or black bent with burdens pass across rear of stage.)
Woman: Oh, thou Spirit of Inspiration, pray illumine the way, dispel the mists of darkness and error. Aid us to attain the heights of which we dream. Fulfill the promise that the wilderness shall be as the rose, and the desert as the garden of the Lord. Make the voice of melody to gladden the heart, that peace, and joy, and thanksgiving shall abide in the land. Remember the thralldom of my sisters and open to us the Gate that we, too, may pass into the glory of the new day, that our light may shine forth in eternal praise to our God. Open to us, I pray thee, The Gate Beautiful.
(Inspiration opens Gate and leads Woman to left of stage where a platform with three steps extending around it is located. Solo, "I'm A Pilgrim.")
Reader: Woman now enters a new field of achievement and promise with a prayer in her heart for courage and guidance that with this new power and recognition she may in honor and dignity take her place side by side with man, that together they may fulfill their high destiny and bring to perfect realization a better, brighter day. (Ten girls dressed in pastel shades and bearing lighted candles execute drill and march to back of stage behind fence which supports gate, where they remain.)
Reader: The Master in love sent the three graces, Faith, Hope, and Charity to abide with and to guide fair woman. (Faith enters dressed in white wearing banner across breast, Banner is blue with letters of gold. The word Faith is on banner.)
Faith: Woman, give me thine hand and I shall lead thee along the stormy pathway of life, that thou mayest pass safely over the "Slough of Despond," and the "Mountain of Temptation," and through the mists of doubt and fear and arrive safely at last at the shining shore. I shall give thee strength to endure and understanding that thou mayest not doubt the purposes of thy Father Thou shalt trust in God and have confidence in thy fellow men. Remember that without Faith thou canst not please thy God. (Faith takes Woman by hand and leads her up one step of platform.)
(Enter Hope dressed same as Faith.)
Woman: "Sweet Hope thou art welcome, I have been so sad and lone So desolate and afraid. Come closer Hope That I may touch thy robe. Now my heart seems a little nearer God." —R. S. Magazine.
(Duet, "Whispering Hope.") (Dance representing Hope.)
Reader: Thou blessed Hope, when dark and dreary days confront us, when sorrow, pain, and disappointment overwhelm us, thy voice doth whisper peace, and bids us trust in Him who said, "Come unto Me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I shall give you rest." Verily, "Hope doth spring eternal in the human breast."
(Enter Charity.)
Reader: "Charity suffereth long and is kind. Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth. And now abideth Faith, Hope, and Charity, but the greatest of these is Charity." (Faith, Hope, and Charity each lead Woman up one step of platform where she is seated. Faith sits on lower step, Hope sits on one other and Charity stands behind Woman.)
(Enter Truth.)
Reader: Hail Truth, thou Spirit of Theology. Thou revealest God in all His majesty and power. Thou teachest of His laws and maketh known His ways. Thou leadest from the grosser walks of life into the warming, peaceful rays of living Light. Thou givest us wisdom and understanding. Thou art "a lamp to our feet and a light to our path." Help us to realize that in the midst of joy and plenty we needs must ponder of the message thou wouldst teach. (Music, "O, Say What Is Truth.")
Truth: In the House of Righteousness there is much treasure, Things long withheld from men are now revealed, Heavenly light gleams forth in all its splendor, The lips of Prophets are no longer sealed.
(Enter Spirit of Testimony. ) (Violin music, "I Know That My Redeemer Lives.")
Reader: "Oh that my words were now written, Oh that they were printed in a book, That they were graven with an iron pen And lead in the rock forever, For I know that my Redeemer liveth And that He shall stand at the latter day Upon the earth; And in my flesh I shall see God."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
(Enter Literature. )
Literature: "Life is rich as down the vista of the years we look And find within time's golden book The treasures of the human mind." R. S. Magazine.
Reader: "In the Book of Literature, Man its author, has recorded his experiences with the Good, the True, the Beautiful." "All that mankind has done, thought, gained, or been is lying in magic preservation in the pages of a book." Oh Woman, forget not Literature, but be mindful of "verses stored with sagas and with songs of old, for "To us in ancient story wonders great are told Of heroes rich in glory and in adventures bold." "Therefore, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom." (During this speech two little pages enter carrying large book and lay it at feet of Woman.)
(Enter Social Service and unfurls Children's Charter. Little boy and girl enter with her and remain at her side.)
Reader: "A challenge to the world is flung, The Children's Charter, hold it high; For every child the word has come Health, love, and happiness is nigh." —R. S. Magazine. Great is thy obligation to humanity. All men are equal in the Father's sight. To them He hath bequeathed life, liberty, and the right to happiness. A place must be found for all on the great stage of life, for each must play his part. The right to work and to achieve belongs to all mankind. Therefore, spare not any effort to seek out the THE GATE BEAUTIFUL needy one and strengthen thou the weak for "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these ye have done it also unto Me."
(Enter Spirit of Peace, the Teacher's Topic.)
Reader: We greet thee, sweet Spirit of Peace, our Teacher's Topic. Thou enterest into the homes each month with Zion's visiting teachers, extending the hand of friendship and good will, cementing all in bonds of unity and love, binding hearts in ties of confidence and trust, that sorrow may be assuaged and suffering relieved.
Peace: "How beautiful upon the mountain are the feet of them that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace, that bringeth good tidings of good that publisheth salvation, that saith unto Zion, 'Thy God reigneth.' "
(Enter Industry.)
Reader: To thee, oh Spirit of Industry and Thrift, doth now our quest for happiness turn. Among thy many duties is the sacred charge to guard and keep the homes and happiness of God's great multitude, —the common folk. Thy busy, willing hands provideth food and warmth. Thou maketh plain, homely necessities into works of art. Thy ingenuity putteth to use all things that there may be no waste nor want. Thou makest our homes and surroundings comfortable and lovely, a place where sympathy and encouragement abides, and like a powerful magnet draws and holds all in chains of love and loyalty that shall endure forever. Thou makest a place where "We may cheerfully turn when the long shadows fall at eventide, to play, and love, and rest, because we know for us our work is best."
Reader: Blessed beyond the woman of any other age, the woman of today finds life rich in opportunity. The opening of the Gate Beautiful brought her into a new day of promise and fulfillment. Hers now the right to desire and to receive, to sow and to reap, to share with man life's joys and sorrows, its hopes and attainments, its privileges and blessings. (As reader is reading the above, the curtain rises and reveals Woman with babe in her arms and crown upon her head. Prophet and Spirit of Inspiration stand in center of stage.)
Woman: "Lo, I rejoice in all these gifts, God gives to Womanhood, But surely the Gift transcendent Is glorious Motherhood." —R. S. Magazine. Motherhood, thou the Gift supreme.
Reader: To thee, our beloved Prophet, who 92 years ago today opened to Woman the Gate Beautiful and led her forth from darkness and error into the resplendent rays of the New Dispensation, we offer our praise and adoration. To womanhood in all the world we say, "Awake to thy glorious opportunities, and with words and deeds give thanks to thy Maker for the gifts, blessings, and possibilities the new day has brought to thee." And to the Daughters of Zion, "Arise put on thy beautiful garments and shine forth that thy light may be a standard for the nations." (Congregation joins in singing, "Praise to the Man.") (Characters are grouped about stage to get best balance and most artistic effects. Colored lights add to effect. Woman is more elaborately dressed than other characters.