) Curtain
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
AS April's smiles and tears combined, Bring forth the loveliness God designed, So gentle words to troubled mind, Give balm, like unto gold refined.
LENA MADESIN PHILLIPS, while on her lecture tour, expressed herself as deeply affected by her delightful reception in Salt Lake and again meeting old friends.
FRANCES PERKINS says, "Not only ability but suitability should be the measuring stick for public office for women and men alike."
M. CAREY THOMAS, president of Bryn Mawr college says, "The girls of today are more serious than formerly, franker and have more courage."
ROBERTA NICHOLSON'S bill in the Indiana legislature is to end breach of promise suit extortion. Its purpose is to end unscrupulous women and lawyers from promoting blackmail.
MRS. M. E. P. BROWN, known to early patrons of the Salt Lake theatre as "Lizzie Platt," died last month. She was a clever soubrette actress and the last of that historic dramatic company of pioneer days.
Miss FLORENCE KIMBALL, a former Salt Lake girl, has been elected to carry on the work of the late Mme. Sembrich at the Julliard school of music, New York. She is a granddaughter of Sarah M. Kimball, early Relief Society and suffrage worker.
COLLEEN MOORE'S Doll House is started on a world tour. It cost $435,000, took 700 artists and craftsmen nine years to complete it. The proceeds from the tour will be donated to hospitals for crippled children.
MRS. CLAIRE STEWART BOYER, of Utah, has been awarded a prize for a nature poem—"Poplar Trees," by a Chattanooga writer's club.
GRACE MOORE has been awarded the annual fellowship gold medal for distinctive service in the arts by the society of arts and sciences.
CLAUDETTE COLBERT was noted to have given the best screen performance in 1934 by the motion picture arts academy.
DR. OLGA KNOPH has a new book "Women on Their Own." In it the author concludes that problems of married life really existed before marriage.
EDITH OLIVIER, in her biography of her famous father called "Alexander the Corrector," gives many pleasant glimpses of the social life of this learned compiler of biblical concordance.
ELIZABETH M. ROBERTS' strange story, "He Sent Forth a Raven;" "Romany," another gypsy story by Lady Eleanor Smith; "Many Poppies," a fantasy by P. L. Travers; "Cleopatra's Daughter," by Beatrice Chanler; "Next Time We Live," by Ursula Parrott are some of the late books by women, popular for club reviews.