Notes from the Field
MRS. PHILETUS JONES AND DAUGHTERS Zion Park Stake:
THE above picture is a most interesting one to Relief Society women. It is of the mother and daughters in the family of Philetus Jones, former Bishop of the Rockville Ward. Sister Jones is at present an officer in the Rockville Ward Relief Society, and her eldest daughter is President of the Springdale Ward organization. It is from families of this type that the great strength and power of Relief Society has been developed. In addition to the mother and daughters there are three fine sons who are all active in Church work. The Project is receiving special attention in this enterprising stake. Some of the wards have adopted the practice of responding to the roll call by giving the number of chapters of the Bible which have been read during the week. Others are not only reading the chapters, but they have pledged themselves to tell each story to some members of the family. It has been recommended by the stake officers that the Relief Society presidents ask the Bishops to cooperate with them in permitting some member of the organization to discuss the subject for a few months in Sacrament Meeting. On January 27, a very beautiful pageant, "The Books of the Bible," was presented by the Relief Society. It is felt that the influence of this will be very far reaching.
Panguitch Stake
A very interesting item which has to do with the Relief Society Magazine comes to the office from the Panguitch Stake. Sister Sarah LeFevre has subscribed for the Bulletin and the Relief Society Magazine since the beginning of its publication. She has been very careful to study the issues and then preserve NOTES FROM THE FIELD them, so that they are in a most excellent condition. These were donated to the Panguitch Stake Relief Society Library on condition that the stake have them bound. The work committee, through its chairman, took up the work of raising money to pay for the binding. A very clever method was devised. Each member was asked to sew a patch on an old shirt, covering the donation the individual wished to make. The Relief Society women took the old shirts to the homes where they were covered with bright colored patches holding the contributions. The shirts became quite colorful and heavy with the money contributed. In the Spring "Aunt Sarah" took the Magazines and money to Salt Lake, where twenty beautiful volumes were bound in the colors red and gold. These lovely books fill one shelf in the new Relief Society library.
Oquirrh Stake:
A MOST unique example of the attention which is being directed to the Bible study in the Project, comes to us in the form of a recipe for a Bible Cake. This may be the source of much interest to do the research necessary to find the ingredients of the cake, and it is an excellent way to familiarize one's self with the different books. A lively game may be realized from a study of the Bible Cake. We can vouch for the very delicious quality of the cake, as a sample of it was brought to the office by the enterprising stake offering the recipe.
BIBLE CAKE 4½ cups 1st Kings—Chapter 4 Verse 22. 1 cup of Judges—Chapter 5 Verse 25 (last clause.) 2 cups of Jeremiah—Chapter 6 Verse 20. 241 2 cups of 1st Samuel—Chapter 30 Verse 12. 2 cups of Nahum—Chapter 3 Verse 12. 2 cups of Numbers—Chapter 17 Verse 8. 2 tb. Of 1st Samuel—Chapter 14 Verse 25. ½ t. Of Leviticus—Chapter 2 Verse 13. 6 of Jeremiah—Chapter 17 Verse 11. ½ cup of Judges—Chapter 4 Verse 19. 2 t. Of Amos—Chapter 4 Verse 5. Season to taste with 2nd Chronicles—Chapter 9 Verse 9.
Raft River Stake:
THE great success of the Relief Society Project is in evidence in the Raft River Stake, which has occasioned the composition of poetry, and stimulated wide interest in the study of the scriptures. This stake has found it very satisfactory to limit the study of the Project for the year, as suggested by the General Board. Instructions are given to ward officers at Union Meeting, and each ward is being visited by stake officers; all of these efforts tending to increase the desire for scriptural reading and study. A well prepared talk was given in Sacrament Meeting in each ward, and the importance of the Project has been endorsed by the Priesthood and by the Church membership in general. The Bishops of the wards have done all they could to forward the plan, and have used scriptural readings, stories and talks upon biblical subjects during the regular Sunday evening meetings. In order to keep informed as to what is being done each ward secretary sends to the stake secretary a quarterly report covering the activities in this line. A very successful Visiting Teachers' Convention, and an exhibition 242 of handwork was held in October in connection with the regular Union Meeting. The convention for the teachers occupied the morning hours, and there was a splendid response from ward officers and visiting teachers. The round table discussion of the teachers' duties and problems and opportunities, together with the responsibilities of the hostess proved very stimulating. Luncheon was served to all attending the convention. The repast was furnished by the different wards. The art display, which was a very attractive feature, was extensive and beautiful beyond expectations. Much encouragement and increased interest in the work and business part of the Relief Society program followed this wonderfully fine exhibition.
Utah Stake: