[Vol39 | January 1952 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Work MeetingSewing Sheers]

Work Neeting— Sewing THe Art oF MENDING (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 7—Sleeves, Underarm Patches, and Mending Sheers Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, April 8, 1952 (Textbook: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot. ) LEEVES and underarm sections are the first and perhaps the most frequent sources of wear and strain in women's clothes.
Countless dresses that are otherwise in good condition are needlessly discarded because of worn-out, tornout, or uncomfortable sleeves.
Underarm sections of dresses and blouses that have become worn or stained can be patched successfuly. If only a small patch is needed, set in a shield-shaped matching piece of material. Set the patch in under the arm, matching the grain and design of the cloth as nearly as possible.
Remember when you cut the patch to leave a double seam allowance on the patch edge to be sewed 

 —JANUARY 1952 to the waist material, to make up for the seam allowance that is taken out of the waist. If it is necessary to patch the sleeve as well as the - waist, make a similar shield-shaped patch. Or you may seam in a triangular gusset. If cloth is available, a panel patch is often less noticeable and takes care of worn places underarm as well as pulled-out places in back of the sleeve. To make a panel patch, cut out the affected section, from the sleeve to the waist.
Using this as a pattern, cut, match and seam - in a new piece, being sure to allow a double seam allowance on edges that are seamed to the waist itself.
Material for these patches may be obtained from scraps of self fabric left over when the dress was made or from hems, pockets, or other style details you can do without. You may have a jacket or bolero you can use in order to save tlie dress. Or you may shorten long sleeves and use the cloth thus made available. "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure" is especially true in the case of tight sleeves. One of the hardest troubles to remedy is that caused when sleeves pull out of the armseye. Try to avoid having this happen by making as much room as possible to begin with. If there is some tightness or pull, let the back seam of the sleeve and armseye out as much as possible and then strengthen the narrow ne seam by sewing on a piece of seam tape to replace the seam allowance. In the case of long sleeves, be sure they are not tight between elbow and wrist, as this often causes pull at the back of the armhole.
After sleeves have torn loose at the back, a panel patch is the best remedy.
When sheer clothes need mending, inset patches as described in lesson 2—"Patching," are the most inconspicuous nd _ satisfactory.
Keep seams on these patches as narrow as possible and finish their edges with false French seams. A false French seam is made by folding in both raw edges toward the seam line and blind stitching them together.
Heavy pins or brooches worn on sheer dresses and blouses sooner or later catch yarns, leaving ragged holes. Don't wait until trouble appears to do something about it.
Better avoid the holes by working eyelets where pins are to be worn to give added strength.
After holes or tears appear, mends may be made with small hemmed patches or ~ worked eyelets, depending upon the size of the holes. Don't take chances on buttons or snaps pulling loose on sheer clothes and leaving unsightly holes. If a fastener has to stand pull, stay it on the underside with a piece of tape, ribbon binding, or a piece of selvage of the same material as the dress. Hw KIND WORDS: Kind words are benedictions.