[Vol39 | January 1952 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science Groping]
Social  Science— The  Progress  of  Man 
Part  2— From  Darkness  Into  Dawn 
Lesson  13— Groping  Toward  Liberty  of  Conscience 
Elder  Archibald  F.  Bennett 
(Text:  The  Progress  of  Man,  by  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
chapter  23.) 
For  Tuesday,  April  22,  1952 
Objective:  To  relate  how  the  new  inhabitants  of  America,  escaping  from  Old 
World  tyranny,  gradually  overcame  religious  intolerance  among  themselves,  so  that 
liberty  of  conscience  could  take  firm  root  in  the  new  soil. 
Out  of  Captivity 
/^VER  two  thousand  years  before 
the  gentiles  came  to  America 
the  Lord  proclaimed,  by  a  firm  de- 
cree that  this  land  should  be  unto 
them  a  land  of  liberty.  The  promise 
was  made  that,  if  they  would  be 
humble,  the  Lord  would  not  only 
fortify  this  land  against  all  other 
nations,  but  he  would  help  the 
gentiles  fight  their  battles. 
And  it  came  to  pass  that  I,  Nephi,  be- 
held that  the  Gentiles  who  had  gone 
forth  out  of  captivity  did  humble  them- 
selves before  the  Lord;  and  the  power 
of  the  Lord  was  with  them. 
And  I  beheld  that  their  mother  Gen- 
tiles were  gathered  together  upon  the 
waters,  and  upon  the  land  also,  to  battle 
against  them. 
And  I  beheld  that  the  power  of  God 
was  with  them,  and  also  the  wrath  of 
God  was  upon  all  those  that  were  gath- 
ered together  against  them  to  battle. 
And  I,  Nephi,  beheld  that  the  Gentiles 
that  had  gone  out  of  captivity  were  de- 
livered by  the  power  of  God  out  of  the 
hands  of  all  other  nations  (Book  of 
Mormon,  I  Nephi  13:16-19). 
How  this  prophecy  has  been  ful- 
filled is  familiar  to  all.  The  land 
has  been  fortified  against  aggression 
of  all  European  powers  since  the 
people  in  this  land  of  all  races 
have  won  their  independence  from 
Page  62 
European  powers.  Moreover,  the 
attempt  on  the  part  of  the  gentiles 
to  set  up  kings  has  proved  to  be 
very  disastrous.  There  are  no  kings 
upon  the  land  that  have  been  raised 
up  unto  the  gentiles.  Even  in  Can- 
ada, which  is  considered  as  a  Brit- 
ish possession,  the  people  make 
their  own  laws  and  govern  them- 
selves and  there  is  no  king  among 
them.  The  American  continents 
are  filled  with  republics,  for  Ameri- 
ca has  been  the  cradle  of  liberty 
for  the  whole  world. 
The  first  permanent  colonies  of 
Anglo-Saxons  were  planted  in  1607 
and  1620,  the  first  in  Virginia  and 
the  second  in  Massachusetts.  Earlier 
attempts  to  colonize  had  failed.  The 
reason  for  the  failure  was  largely 
due  to  the  fact  that  those  who  came 
to  colonize  were  not  imbued  with 
the  spirit  of  pioneering  and  were 
utterly  unfit  for  such  an  undertak- 
ing. They  were  mostly  adventure- 
some souls  of  idle  habits  who  knew
