[Vol39 | January 1952 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Music Review of the 68 Pattern]

Florence Jepperson Madsen Objective: To refine the technique of conducting and expression of music; to become more informed about music and its far-reaching spiritual powers. Review of 6/8
Rhythm In the further study and the review of 6/8 rhythm keep in mind the importance of smooth and sustained baton motions when the tempo is slow so that the flow of rhythm shall not be disturbed. Practice the following hymns: (a) "Sweet Hour of Prayer' (b) "It Came Upon the Midnight Clear" In conducting 6/8 rhythm in fast tempo, and where the 2/4 pattern is to be used, remember that the up-beat (count two) should move upward without being hurried or stressed. Conduct the pattern with ease and buoyancy. (a) Select songs for practice. (b) Songs in 6/8 rhythm that are in slow tempo, and in which an important word or syllable occurs on count four, should be conducted with a broader and a more vigorous motion on that beat. Examples: (1) "Silent Night" 

 —JANUARY 1952 (2) "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief" Style and Interpretation of Music 'Time wrecks the proudest piles we raise, "The towers, the domes, the temples fall; The fortress crumbles and decays; One breath of song outlives them all. —Oliver Wendell Holmes Adapt the phrasing to the text of a song.
Breath should be taken at points where an idea or thought has been completed. The general rule is to phrase at all punctuation marks. The exception to this rule is when the punctuation marks appear after single words or very short word groups as: a) "Come, Come, Ye Saints" (b) "I Need Thee, O I Need Thee" (c) "Nearer, Dear Saviour, to Thee" Instead of taking a breath at such places, merely suspend the breath, which silences the tone for an instant and produces the same effect as if a breath had been taken.
Such careful phrasing gives proper meaning to the words of a song. "The poem is really the soul of any song, and its hearers are entitled to follow it. The most beautiful vocal projection loses its effect if the words are unintelligible."—Victoria Anderson and Viola Morris (Etude). The words of a song should be sung in a beautiful tone quality and in a manner that will give full meaning to the text: (a) First consider the subject of the song. (b) Read the words over several times in order to understand the message without the music. (c) Express the word message beautifully, and with an understanding and vitality which make the text sound as if it were one's own expression.
Read the words as if they were being given before an audience. Use the proper inflections and sufficient volume to be easily heard. In so doing the possibilities of the text will be revealed—key words and syllables will be stressed and unimportant ones subdued.
Light and shades in volume will then naturally follow. All of these instructions and suggestions are of equal importance to the accompanist and should, therefore, be used in her work, (d) Style in singing and playing is largely determined and identified by a consistent use of the following types of expression: Legato—smooth, connected, graceful Staccato—detached, short Semi-staccato—less detached Marcato—accented, marked Demi-marcato—less_ marked 1. For the markings and abbreviations of these terms refer to chapter fourteen or seventeen in the textbook; to a music dictionary under "Signs"; or to the individual words in Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, under, "Arbitrary Signs and Symbols," (page 3007, in the second edition). 2. The artistic use of these types of expression gives the ever-needed contrast and beauty to musical performance, both vocal and instrumental.
Music as a Missionary Music awakens interest, which is one of the first prerequisites to missionary work. Music, with words, not only creates interest but invites attentive listening.
Music set to inspirational words stimulates the consciousness towards thoughtful consideration of the text, the first requisite to fruitful missionary activity.
Inspiring music, with sacred words, challenges the mind with religious philosophies.
Music has the power to warm the cold, indifferent heart. The singing of our own hymns, bearing the gospel message, is often the key that opens a spiritual conversation, in the home or elsewhere, and sometimes leads to conversion. Dame Clara Butt, England's great contralto, said: LESSON DEPARTMENT "Those singers are fortunate whose musical knowledge commenced with the 67 cradle and, whose first master was that greatest of all teachers, the mother.",. Music Material and Suggested Books for Study C ish Sacred Three-part Songs (S. S. A.) ae AEE "Be Thou Exalted, O God" (easy) Demarest Arthur P. Schmidt "Galilean Easter Carol" Shure Belwin "O Lord Most Merciful (easy) Concone Lorenz "Sing Forth His High Eternal Name" Cuthbert Harris Arthur P. Schmidt "O Jesus, Thou Art Standing" Schubert Carl Fischer Sacred Two-part Songs "Come We That Love the Lord" Barnes Willis "Thy House Forever" Protheroe G. Schirmer "Lift Up Your Heads" Bixby Willis Books for Study "Elementary Harmony" Orem Presser "Music for the Multitude" Harrison MacMillan "Universal Song," Vols. 1, 2, and 3