[Vol39 | January 1952 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: From Near and Far]
their  expression  which  are  so  near 
to  our  doors.  And  we  may  never 
realize  the  extent  of  the .  influence 
which  one  poem  or  one  song  or  one 
painting  may  have  upon  our  as- 
sociates in  this  day  and  upon  others 
in  the  years  to  come. 
When  Eliza  R.  Snow  wrote  the 
heartfelt  words  of  "O  My  Father" 
for  the  saints,  perhaps  she  could  not 
foresee  that  future  generations 
would  sing  those  words  again  and 
again,  and  with  each  singing  the  gos- 
pel would  become  more  precious— 
that  many  hearts  would  be  lifted  to 
a  realization  of  the  eternal  verities 
through  the  words— 'Truth  is  reas-

EDITORIAL 
33 
on,  truth  eternal  tells  me  I've  a 
mother  there." 
And  our  own  Florence  J.  Mad- 
sen,  a  member  of  the  Relief  Society 
general  board,  has  given  us,  among 
her  many  compositions,  a  mag- 
nificent anthem  which  shall  be  for 
our  daughters  and  their  daughters 
in  the  years  to  come— "If  Ye  Love 
Me,  Keep  My  Commandments." 
Alice  Merrill  Home,  who  ex- 
pressed in  all  phases  of  her  life,  her 
lofty  ideals  of  artistic  values  has 
given  voice  to  the  responsibilities  of 
all  who  would  enrich  the  world  by 
developing  their  talents: 
The  insight  to  recognize  the  capa- 
bilities of  those  among  whom  one  moves, 
marks  the  degree  of  greatness  in  leader- 
ship. .  .  .  The  true  leader  feels  a  double 
joy  in  the  knowledge  that  his  comrades 
grow  with  him  by  using  their  gifts  .  .  . 
but  each  soul  has  a  higher  duty:  to  dis- 
cover his  own  infinity. 
Many  of  us  will  never  write  an 
enduring  anthem  or  an  immortal 
poem  or  story  or  paint  a  picture 
that  will  retain  its  luster  through 
the  ages,  but  we  can  develop  our 
own  gifts  until  they  become  as  pol- 
ished lamps,  and  though  the  light 
may  not  be  reflected  afar,  it  will 
shine  in  our  homes,  and  our  chil- 
dren will  learn  to  appreciate  the 
beautiful  and  the  artistic  and  to 
discriminate  between  the  authentic 
and  the  shoddy,  and  they  will  be 
able  to  evaluate  the  achievements 
which  add  insight  and  interpreta- 
tion to  their  view  of  the  world  and 
its  people— they  will  understand  the 
longing  and  the  seeking  for  the 
virtuous  and  the  lovely  which 
characterize  the  sons  and  daughters 
of  God. 
There  are  many  names  which 
may  not  be  written  in  the  high 
places,  but  each  week  and  each  year 
the  women  who  use  their  artistic 
gifts  for  service  in  the  Church  are 
making  life  more  lovely  and  more 
worthwhile  for  thousands  of  Church 
members.  Many  organists  and 
choristers,  and  many  singers  of  solos, 
the  members  of  our  choirs  and  our 
Singing  Mothers  are  giving  great 
richness  to  other  lives  and  at  the 
same  time  enriching  their  own. 
Let  us  discover  our  gifts,  let  us 
learn  how  to  use  them  for  our  own 
growth  and  for  sharing  with  others 
—that  precious  talents  may  not  be 
lost,  but  may  be  remembered  and 
become  a  lasting  joy  to  ourselves 
and  others. 
-V.  P.  C. 
V       V       *       s» 
9-t  3s  Winter 
Grace  M.  Candland 
Now  is  the  season  of  winter, 
And  snow  covers  valley  and  hill; 
The  earth  is  a  cloak  of  rare  ermine 
And  the  icebound  streamlet  is  still. 
Look  at  the  blue  of  the  heavens, 
Close  studded  with  glittering  light 
From  the  stars  and  the  soft  moonbeams 
Pouring  down  to  the  quiet  night. 
Take  note  of  the  evergreen  bushes 
Encased  in  a  prison  of  glass, 
Bunches  of  bright  yellow  berries 
Hung  under  the  branches  en  masse. 
Winter  is  past  all  comparing, 
In  beauty  and  charm  so  complete, 
From  the  dipper  beaming  above 
To  the  crunchy  flakes  at  our  feet.

TbhuL TO  THE  FIELD 
'jbound  Volumes  of  ig$i  LKeiief  Society    1 1  lagazines 
OELIEF  Society  officers  and  members  who  wish  to  have  their  1951  issues 
of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  bound  may  do  so  through  the  office  of 
the  General  Board,  40  North  Main  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah.  The  cost 
for  binding  the  twelve  isses  in  a  permanent  cloth  binding  is  $2.25,  includ- 
ing the  index.  If  the  leather  binding  is  preferred  the  cost  is  $3.25. 
If  bound  volmes  are  requested  and  the  Magazines  for  binding  are  not 
supplied  by  the  person  making  the  request,  the  charge  for  furnishing 
the  Magazines  will  be  $1.50,  which  will  be  added  to  the  cost  of  binding, 
thus  making  the  total  cost  for  cloth -bound  volumes  $3.75  and  for  leather- 
bound  volumes  $475.  Only  a  limited  number  of  Magazines  are  available 
for  binding. 
It  is  suggested  that  wards  and  stakes  have  one  volume  of  the  1951 
Magazines  bound  for  preservation  in  ward  and  stake  Relief  Society  libraries. 
^/Lward  Subscriptions  ^Presented  in  ^rLpnt 
HTHE  award  subscriptions  presented  to  the  Magazine  representatives  who 
secure  75  per  cent  or  more  of  their  Relief  Society  members  as  sub- 
scribers to  the  Magazine  will  not  be  awarded  until  after  the  stake  Magazine 
representatives'  annual  reports  have  been  audited.  Cards  notifying  ward  and 
stake  representatives  of  these  subscriptions  for  1951  will  be  mailed  to  them 
about  April  1,  1952. 
'  It  is  very  important  that  these  cards  be  returned  to  the  Magazine 
office  as  soon  as  possible  after  being  received. 
(January 
Grace  Barker  Wilson 
The  wind  hangs  frozen  in  the  air, 
And  zero  hour  is  everywhere. 
Stiff  breath  balloons  from  icy  lips, 
The  street  is  thick  with  diamond  chips. 
A  single  bird  dares  to  alight 
As  trees  stand  rigid,  boughs  upright. 
All  nature  at  attention  stands, 
Responsive  to  the  cold's  commands. 
Spring  is  the  only  adversary 
Can  break  the  hold  of  January. 
Page  34 
Cnora  of  Jxnowinq 
C.  Cameron  Johns 
Brief  is  the  chord  of  knowing, 
A  moment  from  a  symphony 
Imprisoned  in  the  heart. 
Shadows  of  silence 
Are  held  at  bay 
While  unseen  hands  release 
The  notes  to  singing; 
Suddenly  all  fears 
Are  centered  in  flame 
And  lost  in  the  afterglow.