[Vol39 | January 1952 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: An Easy Dress to Make for Daughter]

If you are a busy mother, here is just the apron or summer play dress for your daughter one to three years old. It can be made in a hurry and takes only a small piece of material. For ironing, it pulls into a flat piece of cloth that takes only a jiffy to iron.

First, measure your daughter from neck to hemline. Add about three-fourths inch for the neck hem and enough for the desired width of the bottom hem. Add one inch for the drawstring, and two inches for the sleeve ruffle, if the ruffle is to be made of the same material. (The sleeve ruffle and pocket may be made of contrasting material.) This total will be the exact number of inches of material you need, with no waste. If matching panties are to be made to complete the ensemble, buy additional material for the panties.

Before cutting the dress, tear or cut off a one-inch piece and sew it into a drawstring. Cut off a two inch strip for the sleeve ruffles, if sleeve ruffles are to be made of the same material.

Make the ruffles. To cut the dress, measure five and one half inches in from the selvage of the material, and make a dot. Measure six inches in from this dot and three and one-half inches down from the top, and make a second dot. These dots mark the sides of the sleeve.

Place a saucer between the dots and draw the arc swinging down between the dots. The arc should be about one and one-fourth inches deep, which would make the center of the arc about four and three-fourths inches from the top of the material. Cut along the arc for the sleeve hole.

Fold the material, placing the selvage sides together, and cut the other sleeve hole, using the one already cut as a guide. Put a one-fourth inch hem in the bottom of the sleeve hole and sew the ruffle onto the top of the sleeve hole. Sew the selvage sides together from top to bottom. Put a three-fourths inch hem in the top of the dress, and insert the drawstring. Tie a knot in each end of the drawstring to keep it from pulling out. Add a pocket of the same, or contrasting material, if you wish. Hem the bottom, and the apron is finished.

If you wish your daughter to wear this as a play apron over a dress, the material could be arranged so that the opening will be left unstitched down the middle of the back. If used as an apron, it may be made to fit a larger child.
