How about a "GET IT DONE DAY"? Vera Stocker OF course I try to plan my homemaking tasks to accomplish them with the greatest possible efficiency and dispatch. If I didn't, I would be swamped by the countless demands on the time and strength of a "do-it-yourself"? Homemaker and mother of four school-age children. But even with a good workable schedule, I have found that many small tasks that need to be done and that I want to do, are put off, forgotten, or just plain neglected — things of seemingly little importance, but still have their place in a smooth-running household and a well-ordered family life. 'That is how Get It Done Day came to be an institution in our home. Yes, just that — a regular day set aside in which emphasis is put on doing many small, odd _ jobs, those "must-do-one-of-these-days" kind. Ours is the first weekday of each month, or as soon after as may be convenient. On that day I do the minimum of regular housework, hurrying through the breakfast dishes, beds, and dusting in double-quick time, and preparing easy-to-get meals. Then to the game, for I am not averse to a little playful competition between me and time. It adds interest to see just how many needed tasks I can accomplish before the day is done. There is a pleasant variety, too. This is the time for small jobs, but many — remember? Likely I will have the oil can out. I have a habit of forgetting to oil certain small appliances. The kitchen screwdriver may be in use, too, and my spot cleaners for upholstery and wallpaper. A pleasant breeze may invite me to air all our blankets and pillows. It is a good time to wipe off all the light globes in the house — a job that should be routine and isn't with me. I will thin out our pile of magazines, tieing up those back numbers, then box up some discarded clothing of the children, arranging at once for delivery of both to places where they will be welcomed. I look at the bright new page on the calendar, and note that it is time for the check on Jamie's teeth, and remind myself to remind my husband to make the appointment for his annual physical examination. Oh, yes, some birthdays are in the offing. I will make certain decisions about these today instead of waiting until the eleventh hour, and I will take a look at my gift wrappings and greeting card supply. (A pencil and pad are handy, of course. ) I will have other reminders, too — for instance, a check of the bathroom may show some nearly empty bottles and tubes, and other low supplies. If my household accounts are not up-to-date, now is the time, and I will also sort and file properly the recipes I have clipped. I hate to darn socks, but with my feet on the hassock, music on the radio, and a cool lemonade beside me, I will get to the bottom of that basket in a short time. Or, possibly, I will drop everything for an hour and make a call on that lonely, elderly woman down the street — something I have been meaning to do for a long time. With a little prodding, the children, after school, get into the getit-done spirit. 'The boys agree to clean the dog house, and even give Rover a bath, and straighten things up in the garage. One boy will enjoy checking the car door in regard to the next oil change. Joey rightly thinks it is a good time to remind me of the np in his sleeping bag and an overnight Scout trip coming up. Sister may finally get HOW ABOUT A "GET IT DONE DAY'? Her bureau drawers tidied, and with Scotch tape mend all the torn jackets on our books. Six-year-old Jan loves to paste all our loose trading stamps in the books so Mommie can get herself a present. Before bedtime I may have written that long-delayed answer to Great-Aunt Susan's last letter. And husband, dear old sport, not to be outdone, all by himself has noticed the drip of the kitchen faucet, and has made an iron-clad promise to fix it on Saturday. When I add my accomplishments to those of each member of the family, the total is often a pleasant surprise. No wonder our ten-year-old once said, "Mother, instead of "Get It Done Day," we ought to call it "Get Them Done Today." oo CO)