Round Table Togetherness Last night after my small son had sat by the dining-room table coaxing me to play a word-game with him, I felt pangs of guilt because I had said, "I'm much too busy." While working at the task that kept me from my son, my thoughts wandered back to the times when I was a child and had played games with my Mother. I wondered how she had found the time to do so many things with us. I could see a happy family sitting around the table on a cold winter night. 'T'wo of us engaged in a game of ticktacktoe, someone reading a book or studying a lesson for school; the little ones coloring pictures, cutting paper dolls, or creating some piece of childish art from modeling clay. Now I had a mental image of five exuberant children, glowing faces, folded hands, waiting patiently for a piece of candy that Mother was making from maple sugar and black walnuts. We had all participated in cracking and picking out the nut meats the preceding night. I thought of the times we sat around the table watching Mother 298 Violet Nimmo cut out dresses for us, or helped us make doll clothes. Each of us took his or her place at the table when Mother read a recent letter from Aunt Suzy, or when we had a family discussion on finding the little culprit who had broken the hoe handle or, maybe, a blue willow cup. I visualized seven bowed heads around that old-fashioned round table, asking the Lord to bless the food of which we were about to partake. Perhaps the meal consisted of a pot of beans, corn bread, and a baked apple for dessert. The beans and corn had been harvested from our huge vegetable garden where we all shared many happy days of tilling and planting. Mother ground the corn in an old iron grinder. The apples came from our orchard off trees which were pruned, grafted, and tenderly cared for by our Father. Some people referred to him as Mr. Green Thumb, because he liked to make things grow. On special holidays, extra leaves were added to that old table. It wore the one and only snowy white linen tablecloth and was laid with our best china and the good silver. Table decorations were usually homemade nut cups, holding popcorn glazed with maple sugar, toasted hickory nuts, and bits of candied orange peel. Sometimes we made funny little men from apples or from various vegetables, and placed them beside each plate. The table groaned with the burden of tasty casseroles, spicy dressings, fowl, salads, homemade pickles and jellies, freshly baked fruit pies, and sugar cookies that Mother let us decorate to our own fancy, always remembering to tell us how exquisite they were. Sometimes we sat around the table drinking mugs of hot eggnog and listened to stories told by Mother or Father, while the burning wood crackled in the fireplace and bayberry leaves parched on the hearth. The mingling fragrance of nutmeg and bayberry must was enough to create a festive mood. Occasionally, we gathered about the ROUND TABLE TOGETHERNESS table for an hour or two of song and harmony. Coloring eggs for Easter, or making frilly May baskets for May Day have given me many pleasant memories. Saturday mornings always found the old table loaded with large golden loaves of Mother's homemade bread and rolls. On Sunday it held our Sunday School and Church papers, and we all sat around while Father read from the old family Bible. Me KK Coming back to the present reality, I said to myself, this job can wait until tomorrow. "All right, son," I offered. "How about that game we were going to play? When we finish the game let's make some cookies and frost them with funny faces." I thought, perhaps tomorrow I will glaze some popcorn and candy some... Oh, dear! I do believe I have forgotten how to candy orange peel.