Cover-ups for Older Tots Adelle Ashby SomeETIMES middle-sized children need to wear some kind of a protection over their clothes when eating, but would rebel at the suggestion of a bib. On a Sunday, for instance, when you want your children to stay fresh and clean between meetings, it is a great convenience to have some kind of an aid at mealtime. Here are three "cover-up" ideas that are so eye catching and different, that the roughest, biggest, little cowboy in your family will love to wear one. CANDY CANE COVER-UP: The first cover-up is for the child just above the tiny tot in age. It is a candy-cane bib. The best material for this bib is a heavy terry cloth. If you have a worn bath towel, there is likely to be enough good material left to make this bib. To cut the candy-cane bib, first cut a rectangle of about twelve inches by fourteen inches. These bibs should be quite large, so as to cover well. Now cut a neck curve in the center of one of the 12" edges. The curve 300 al TED should be about 414 inches wide, and about 1% inches deep at the lowest point. Bind the bib with bright red bias, leaving the neck curve. Now bind this curve with the same bias tape, leaving about ten inches on both ends for ties. To make the candy cane, take a ten-inch length of red rickrack and also a ten-inch length of white rickrack. Interlock the two colors so that they look braided. Make another smaller cane of seven-inch rickrack lengths. Now stitch them on the bib in a candycane shape, adding a bright red bow on each cane. Candy canes are popular with the children at all times of the year. SISTER'S BLOUSE COVER-UP: If you make a cover-up for sister, she will love one that looks like a blouse. This bib could be made from an old white shirt, or from a white or lightcolored discarded towel. Make it the same size as the first bib, or as long as her dress, for added protection. Cut the neck curve as before. This time, hem all around with a narrow hem. Now make a make-believe collar, pocket, and center strips, and also bind the neck with the new bright striped bias that is on the market, or use any you have on hand. If you add the realistic touch of four shirt buttons down the front, any little girl would be proud to wear it. BROTHER'S VEST COVER-UP: This cover-up bib is for the young man of the house, who has trouble keeping his white shirt spotless for church going. Cut the bib as indicated in the diagram. If you will clip a little 14- inch mark into the upper and lower V, it will be easier to stitch on the bias tape. First, hem both long edges with a tiny hem. Now bind this bib also with a bright striped bias tape, and sew it on in this order: tie string and upper left V, then lower left V. In one operation, bind lower right, continue with tape up front (folded) and bind upper right, leaving a tie. Add fake pockets and four shirt buttons. Fold _ | a. F ~\ >I" 301 ho, finds e lovely making quil Contrasting Colors €, even Stitching make her has j much Pleasure in 302 Hazel M. Thomson Your Heart tO ~ I \ Understanding Chapter 3 Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, are traveling to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake in a wagon train commanded by Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena's fiance has died at Winter Quarters, and Selena, in bitterness and sorrow, cannot be comforted. Belle, a large, strong woman, trades for a pair of Indian moccasins, and finding them too small for her, she sends Selena to offer them to Josiah who has injured his foot. Josiah attaches marital significance to the gift of the moccasins, according to an Indian custom. SELENA and Belle had just finished putting their dishes away after the evening meal when Josiah arrived. His hair was parted in the middle and _ combed smoothly. He was wearing his Sunday clothes. With the moccasins on his feet he walked with only a slight limp. Feeling that there was no need of beating around the bush, he came directly to the point. "I come courting," he said, looking straight at Belle. —— \\ \ QW \ NN "Oh!" she said, picking up the last of the pans and heading toward the wagon. She had been through similar experiences before and knew when it was her move. "I have to put these away, Selena. I'll be in the wagon." Josiah stepped directly in her path. "It's you I'm courting," he said. Belle dropped the pans she was carrying. The iron kettle fell with a thud, barely missing Josiah's sore foot. But Josiah did not budge. "Me?" gasped Belle. "Yes, you. Is that so all-fired strange? Meaning no offense to you, Ma'am," he said, nodding politely toward Selena, "but I've been thinking about your sister these past few days, wondering how I could get up the courage to speak to her." His eyes turned back to Belle, standing open-mouthed before him. "And now, tonight, she goes and gives me all the encouragement any man would need." Belle, completely at a loss as to what to do in the face of his open admiration of her, stared. That look in his eyes, she had seen it many times before in the eyes of Selena's suitors, but never until now directed toward her. "Encouragement? Tonight? Me?" Her words didn't seem coherent. Neither did her whirling thoughts. "IT might have expected you to manage things right well, seeing as how you always do, but I was more than a mite surprised when Selena brought the moccasins. Where you heard about that old Indian custom I don't know, but it makes no difference. I thought we might go for a walk together and be back in time to start the dancing. Even with this sore foot I'm going to dance tonight!" "Indian custom? What...?" Selena took her dazed sister by the arm and led her toward the wagon. "This night air is a little cool. Belle had better get a shawl," she said. "T'll be waiting right here," said Josiah. "Don't be too long — honey." Belle choked. 304 "Selena!" she said. ''What's come over him? What happened?" "T don't know," Selena whispered back, "but pull yourself together. I'll get you my best shawl. Here, take my cornstarch bag and wipe the shine off your face. It will be good for you to be dancing for once, the way you sit here every night and tap your toes." Selena climbed back out of the wagon, draped the shawl around her sister's shoulders and smoothed Belle's hair. "There. You look lovely, Belle. Have a good time dancing." "Dancing! I think he wants to marry me!" Selena laughed gaily. For the first time in a long while she seemed more sure and more in control of the situation than Belle was. "Well, what would you think of that?" she asked. Belle actually trembled. "I think it would be wonderful," she said. "I had no idea Josiah could be so masterful." THE rest of the trip into the Great Salt Lake Valley was one of complete happiness for Belle. Josiah came every morning to yoke up her oxen for her. The first three mornings he came only to find them all ready to go. Selena took a hand then, suggesting that since Josiah so obviously wanted to help, that she wait the next morning and give him opportunity to do so. The look of satisfaction and pride on his face more than repaid Belle for the inactivity of waiting. The bond of friendship and understanding between Lon and Belle had deepened as he learned that Belle was to become the wife of his best friend as soon as they arrived in the Valley. "T knew you'd like Josiah, when you really came to know him,"' Lon said one afternoon as they followed the wagon road in the mountains, 'everyone does. He's a fortunate man, Belle. I wish I were as lucky." "But you haven't said a word to Selena. How do you hope to learn how she feels if you never tell your own feelings, Lon?" "I know how she feels all right," said Lon, moving back by the wagon wheel and moving along beside it. "She leaves no doubt about that. I guess I could never measure up to him. He must have been pretty near perfect, Belle, for Selena to have loved him so much." "That's just it, Lon. He wasn't. He came into Nauvoo as a member of a gang of counterfeiters. It was a pretty good place for that sort of thing for awhile. Everything that happened was blamed on the Mormons. But after the saints moved out he moved on to Winter Quarters. I don't know what his next plan was, but you can be sure that he had one." Lon stepped up on the wagon tongue and swung himself up beside Belle. His voice was intense. "Belle! Are you sure of all this? How can Selena be so loyal to the memory of a man like that?" "Tt's simple. She doesn't know. I never found out about it until after his death, and then, quite by accident, I overheard some talk that wasn't meant for me." "But why didn't you tell her? Why let her go on tearing her heart out over a rascal?" YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING "T had no proof. After I heard what I did, I inquired around a little. I was convinced that it was true but Selena would never believe me. Besides, she was so heartbroken, I had no wish to add to the sorrow she already felt." For a time there was only the sound of the wagon wheels on the rocky creek bed where the road lay at this point. Then Lon said, "Nor shall I tell her. If I can't win her love without that, perhaps I don't deserve to have st ed Nort until the last night on the trail before entering the Valley did Lon say anything to Selena. She had left her own wagon where Josiah and Belle were discussing their own future, in order to give them a measure of privacy, and Lon saw her walking alone past his own camp. "Selena!" he cried. "Oh! Hello, Lon," she answered and would have walked on, but he raised his hand for her to stop. "Is anything wrong?" he asked. "No. It's just that I'm always there, listening to whatever Belle and Josiah have to say to each other. I just felt they would welcome being alone once in awhile." Lon looked down at her. Her face was the most beautiful face he had ever seen. His heart pounded. "Selena, we'll be coming into the Valley tomorrow." "Ves," "I'm almost sorry the trip is ending." He moved near and stood beside her chair. She did not look up. "T love you, Selena. When we reach the Valley I should like to have the privilege of calling." She did not answer and he waited, wondering if she had even heard. "Selena?" he said softly. "If you like," she said again, still not looking at him. A feeling of hopelessness swept over Lon. He had the impression that, had he even asked her to marry him, she would have said the same thing. Fle was to find himself confronted many times during that first winter in the Great Salt Lake City by her icy indifference. He continued to live in the wagon, while Josiah and Belle, after their marriage, which took place almost immediately after their arrival, were successful in obtaining a two-room log cabin that had been vacated. '"'How did we happen to be so lucky?" Belle asked when Josiah told her about getting a cabin without having to build. "There are lots of cabins empty right now," Josiah answered. "A goodly number of the saints have been called to make settlements in other places. The newest one, I hear, is to be named Peteetneet. How would you like it if we happened to be called?' The wagon trip west had been the happiest time of Belle's life. The thought of another one 'would be very agreeable to her. With the arrival of early spring Josiah and Belle became interested in joining the groups who were going to California. "Looks like we'll be going on, Selena," said Josiah, when the 306 decision had been made. "You will go with us?" Selena did not protest. If this was what Belle and _ Josiah wanted, it was not her place to interfere. Life held so little promise to her. After all, what difference would it make, here or there? "Where is the settlement to be made?" It was Belle, not Selena, who asked the question. "T don't exactly know," Josiah answered, "'but Captain Jefferson Hunt and others who were in the Battalion have seen the _ land. They say it's the most beautiful place on earth, Belle! Sunshine and growing weather the whole year around. Why, we'll have a better farm than we could ever have, here in this desert." "But don't you even know the direction we will be traveling?" asked his wife. "Oh, I read the official bulletin from the First Presidency: 'A settlement is to be made at no great distance from San Diego, near Chino Rancho, close by the Cajon Pass.' That's the instructions. It won't be west from here. We'll be taking a southern route. Those that have seen it love the country down there. Some of them seem to feel that President Young made a mistake in stopping here in this place." WJosiAH found Lon to be a bit skeptical on more than one point of argument. "This is the place," he said. "President Young said so himself, and if this is where the Lord wants this people to be, then it seems to me that this is where we ought to stay. Besides, I've heard a little about that trail to California. The boys who were in the Battalion say there are miles of desert. You'll find out, Josiah, it is no grassy plain you'll be crossing." "What. Of it?" asked Josiah, "we'll have guides who know the road. They know just where to stop so there will be watering places, and a time or two when we have to carry water. That's all." "No, it's not all," said Lon. "President Young refused in no uncertain words to follow Sam Brannan in his scheme to move the saints to the Gold Coast. Now, a few years later, here we are planning to go right along anyway." "But this is different, Lon. This whole undertaking has the approval of the Authorities. We're not heading for the gold fields, nor anywhere near Sutter's Fort, but to make a settlement near the sea coast, from which missionaries going to the Islands of the Sea can be helped on their way, and those who return to this country can be _ received. Why, Lon, there are two of the apostles who have been assigned to lead this company." Lon turned quickly and faced his friend. "Now, I didn't know that, Josiah. Since when? Who are they?" "Since yesterday is all that I have known it, but both Brother Lyman and Brother Rich are going. Does that put a new light on things?" "It certainly does!" said Lon. "T hated to think of your going without me, but since it does not mean going against counsel, I'll be right along with you." YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING Durinc the remaining days of preparation Lon felt a_ great weight had lifted from him. The thoughts of Selena going on while he could not bring himself to join in the move had been depressing in the extreme. There were a few occasions, he felt, when he had seen a glimpse of the real Selena; once when their eyes first met, in the cemetery at Winter Quarters. Her grief had been new then, and her face not yet accustomed to the mask she now habitually wore. Again, on the day that she had taken the moccasins to Josiah, Lon had felt something of the warmth and beauty deep inside the girl which matched the loveliness of her features. Whether he could ever arouse any response in Selena to his own great affection, he did not know, but at least he was going to have ample opportunity to try. At last the day came for departure and they drove their wagons south, down the street of the fast-growing, thriving city. Everyone they passed waved, wishing them God-speed and success in the new colony to be built. It was thrilling and exciting to Belle, and Selena seemed to respond in a measure to the feelings of the others. As they neared the southern end of the valley where the mountains came close together, separating the Valley of the Great Salt Lake from the Valley of the Utahs, Selena accepted Lon's invitation to ride with him for a part of the afternoon. High on the wagon seat, her dark hair framing her face under her sunbonnet, Lon thought he had never seen anything so beautiful. At that moment he felt that if he should ask her to marry him, she would accept. Yet, this was not what he wanted. He wanted Selena for his wife, yes. But he wanted the laughter, the gaiety, stored up within her; and most of all he wanted her love. THE organization of the wagon train was the same as that used in crossing the plains; that is, there were divisions of ten wagons, each with its commander; divisions of fifty, having a commander, and Brother Rich and Brother Lyman acting as general overseers of the entire company of one hundred fifty wagons. There were 588 oxen, 336 cows, 21 young stock, 107 horses, 52 mules, and 437 men, women, and children. "We'll have our own city as soon as we arrive," said Belle, looking back along the line of wagons, stretching miles behind them. "They won't all be staying in California, you know," replied Josiah. "Brother Parley Pratt and his group of missionaries will want to be on their way to the ocean and on to the South Sea Islands as soon as possible." "Still, it won't be a lonesome kind of life, with so many of the saints there. At least it will not be so for us, Josiah. We'll have a good life together, but it's Selena that bothers me. She hasn't attempted to make one friend yet in the entire wagon train." Josiah looked at his wife out of the corner of his eye. He waited as the wagon rode over 308 some rather large boulders before he spoke. "T've been meaning to tell you this, Belle," he said. "You know that young chap in the wagon just behind Lon's? Well, he has been mighty curious about Selena, almost from the first day out. Wanted to know whether she was married or promised or anything." "So!" exclaimed Belle. "That's why he's been spending so much time around our camp these last few evenings! He has his eyes on Selena! I might have known! Seems like it's been so long since she took any interest in a young man that I've become accustomed to having things that way." Belle reached out a hand to the lines Josiah held and pulled the team to a halt. "I've decided that my sister is not going to marry a complete stranger!"' "Marry him! For goodness sake, Belle. As yet she doesn't even know the young man." "That's what I said. A stranger. You know how she is, Josiah. She just doesn't care — not about anything these days. And if he proposed to her tomorrow, like as not she'd say yes. Well, I'm not taking the chance." BELLE moved on to the wagon behind Josiah's. He spoke to his team and they moved forward. Belle's mind was made up. There was no need in saying more and perhaps down deep Josiah agreed with what his wife planned to do. He realized his protest had been somewhat feeble. '"'Lon," said Belle, as she took his hand and climbed from the wagon tongue to the front of the wagon and took her seat beside him. "Do you want to marry Selena?"' Lon looked at her, startled. "Don't joke with me, Belle. Not about that." "T'm not joking, Lon. I'm asking you, serious. Do you want to marry my sister?" "Belle!" For a moment there was hope and happiness in Lon's eyes. "She didn't...."" Then he stopped. The hope had faded. "No, of course, she didn't say anything. For a moment I." Lon stopped, embarrassed. "T know what you hoped. I have hoped so, too," said Belle, kindly. "But we've got to do something, Lon. There's a young man in camp who keeps asking Josiah all sorts of questions about her. He was at our campfire last night and the night before. He stayed