Spring A Fantasy By Ezra J. Poulsen Spring is a gay lass. She has just come tripping back with more loveliness than ever. Smiles and coy glances wreathed her face, while the delicate beauty of a thousand blended colors radiated from her filmy garments as she passed up the street; and all the children ran out to meet her. Somehow the merry old earth seems born anew with Spring here. This sprightly maiden with blossoms in her hair greets old and young alike with such bewitching tenderness that everyone is made happy. She goes by the sleeping gardens and awakens them with the touch of her magic wand;: from the quaint basket on her arm she releases flocks of joyous birds, which circle around her and disappear among the trees, singing praises to their queen. Everywhere the little fountains bow their heads in homage. At the farther end of the street, where the houses seem to huddle cheerlessly, Spring hesitates. Her gay smile mellows into an expression of loving sympathy, while the shadows slink away. From the dull windows, and from the drab yards troops of pinched faces turn toward her with renewed hope, and many thin little arms are extended in pleading welcome. Has Spring brought blessings to these? She has. At the first moment of her approach she was welcomed with emotions too deep for words. Then a long wondering murmur broke the stillness, an exclamation blended of laughter and tears; and many eager feet hurried toward her. The disillusioned men, the sadfaced women, the hopeful children, all know she brings them a gift. Since Spring has a heart of charity, tears as clear as drops of morning dew glistened in her blue eyes when she heard that some had been cold, and others had been sick. But she smiled again, and spoke cheerfully to everyone. Then, because she is the incarnation of love and life, she scattered her flowers more profusely than ever, and bade her birds sing their most beautiful songs. Into the faces of the children she put color and gaiety. Spring is a welcome lass. She is the carrier of new hopes and bright dreams. She is the harbinger of Easter, and the sweet-faced messenger of Him who is the resurrection and the life. For Spring Decorating