WHAT MANKIND GAINS FROM THE INVESTIGATION OF NATURE

By J. H. Paul

The investigation of nature has given mankind many wonderful things. It has given us the steam engine, the electric light, the telephone, the telegraph, the radio, the automobile, the airplane, and countless other inventions that have made life easier and more comfortable.

But the investigation of nature has given us something far more valuable than all these material things. It has given us a better understanding of the laws that govern the universe, and through this understanding we have gained a greater appreciation of the wisdom and power of the Creator.

When we study the stars and planets, we are filled with wonder at the vastness of space and the orderly movements of the heavenly bodies. When we examine the structure of an atom, we marvel at the intricate design that exists in the smallest particle of matter. When we observe the growth of a plant or the development of an animal, we see evidence of a divine plan that is beyond human comprehension.

The more we learn about nature, the more we realize how little we really know. Each new discovery opens up new fields of investigation and reveals new mysteries to be solved. But this very fact should humble us and make us more reverent toward the great Intelligence that designed and created all things.

The investigation of nature has also taught us valuable lessons about cooperation and harmony. In nature, everything works together for the good of the whole. The sun, the rain, the soil, and the air all cooperate to make plant life possible. The various organs of the body work together to maintain life and health. Even in the animal kingdom, we find examples of cooperation and mutual helpfulness.

These lessons from nature can be applied to human society. If men would learn to cooperate with each other as the forces of nature cooperate, many of our social problems would be solved. If we would work together for the common good instead of seeking only our own selfish interests, we could create a better world for all mankind.

The investigation of nature has thus given us not only material benefits but also spiritual insights that can enrich our lives and make us better human beings.