The Russian Religious Question By Thomas L. Martin Reports in many of the current newspapers and religious pamphlets, made by various people on the religious situation in Russia, indicate a wide diversity of opinion. Some comments are favorable to the Russian people, while many of them describe in great detail the awful condition which prevails there. One hears that the churches are destroyed, that priests are persecuted and often times slain, that religious services are forbidden, and that those who persist in their religious devotion find it very inconvenient to associate in one's own: community as a penalty for that devotion. Because the writer, fairly recently, has had a short firsthand acquaintance with the Soviet Republic, he ventures to add one more opinion to this much discussed question of religion in Russia. It is well to realize that the Russian people have suffered considerably in the past. Many years ago Peter the Great made himself the head of the church. He was the master and with the power at his command, he exercised an authority such that no one dare disobey him, no matter how right nor how wrong he was in his activities, religious and otherwise. The royal court was steeped in corruption. The Czars who followed were not above suspicion, and slowly the system which developed under the Czaristic regime, carried its corruption into the nobility, and other classes, until political and social disintegration reached dangerous points. The church was made subservient to the Czar. The church must obey the dictates of the Czars. It was a high virtue to obey. The burdens under which the Russian people have been called upon to labor were steadily increased and when the people sought the priest for help, they were not satisfied. They were told that it was sin to criticize the Czar. When tendencies to revolt appeared, the people were told that they would be doomed to eternal perdition. Because of such attitudes. The confessional was used to ferret out those who showed revolutionary tendencies. A revolt occurred in 1905; but it failed. During the years 1905-17 the priests called upon all good Christians never to take up arms against the government, because such actions were acts of Satan and the doers would be condemned to hell fire in a future life. A revolution occurred in 1917 and the warnings by the priests were repeated and intensified. Generals masqueraded as priests among the people. The church buildings and the priests were made the rallying centers for counter revolutionary movements. However, the revolutionists won out. One would naturally expect that the revolutionary leaders after their victory would not be any too friendly to the orthodox church, which church had been its bitter enemy. The revolutionists were not friendly. For some time afterward the church and its influence. Was directed against the revolutionary party in power. A. State of war was practically in existence. Would not the priests be treated as anti-revolutionists and be handled accordingly? One would expect this and this is 210 what actually happened. The priests who opposed them were treated mercilessly. This only happened, however, while the country was slowly adjusting itself to a peaceful footing. Afterwards religious tolerance did show itself in some degree. Much of the above information is obtainable at the anti-religion museum at Moscow. In photograph, in manuscripts and in other material exhibits information is given to the visitor which indicated some of the religious and political experiences of the Russian people previous to and during