HAPPENINGS
By Annie Wells Cannon

The Relief Society General Board held its regular monthly meeting on March 3rd, with President Louise Y. Robison presiding. All members of the board were present except Sister Clarissa A. Beesley, who was ill.

The minutes of the previous meeting were read and approved. Reports were given by the various committee chairmen.

Sister Amy Brown Lyman reported on the Social Service work, telling of the many cases that had been handled during the month and of the splendid cooperation being given by the local Relief Societies.

Sister Julia A. F. Child reported on the work of the Magazine Committee, stating that the subscription list was growing steadily and that many favorable comments were being received regarding the magazine.

Sister Clarissa Williams reported on the work of the Education Committee, telling of the splendid response being made to the study courses and of the increased interest in the work.

Sister Belle S. Spafford reported on the work of the Health Committee, stating that much good was being accomplished through the health lessons and demonstrations.

President Robison spoke of the importance of the Relief Society work and urged all members to be faithful in their duties.

The meeting was dismissed with prayer by Sister Maria Y. Dougall.

The Relief Society General Board extends sympathy to Sister Clarissa A. Beesley in the death of her husband, Ebenezer Beesley, which occurred on March 8th. Brother Beesley was well known throughout the Church as a musician and composer, having served for many years as conductor of the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir.

Sister Amy Brown Lyman attended the National Conference of Social Work held in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, from May 22nd to 28th. She represented the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at this important gathering.

The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce that Sister Clarissa Williams has been appointed to serve on the National Council of Women. This appointment comes as a recognition of her splendid work in the field of education and her leadership in women's organizations.