LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in March) THE STANDARD OF LIVING??GENERAL TYPES OF WELFARE WORK The desire of man to help his neighbor in distress is as old as the race itself. Good Samaritans have administered to the needs and wants of those fallen by the wayside for countless generations. The spirit of brotherly love, of human interest, has found expression in many forms. The relation of doctor to patient, of teacher to pupil, of employer to employee, of neighbor to neighbor, is often of a helpful, altruistic nature. This bond which exists in natural, human situations is a strong one, and because of its naturalness and strength, can be an important one in the solution of human problems. A doctor, a teacher, a relative, or a friend may be able to render the right kind of service at a certain time to an individual in trouble. But in our present day society, which is becoming constantly more complex and less personal, these natural bonds cannot be relied on to care for all the difficult social situations that arise. In this day of specialization, in industry, in education, in medicine, etc., the employer, the teacher, or the physician does not often play the intimate role of adviser and friend. The difficulties which individuals have to meet in our day are sometimes involved and often require a special kind of skill to overcome them. The friendly employer, or neighbor, or relative is not always familiar with the medical, educational and social resources of the community and often cannot render the expert kind of service that an individual may require. But this concern that individuals have for the well-being of other individuals is still finding expression, and is the motive behind the various movements and programs that form what is known as organized welfare work. Welfare or social work is, in a general sense, any work that is undertaken deliberately for the purpose of bettering environment or of assisting man to a better adjustment and a more complete life in this environment. In carrying out this purpose, activities have been of two quite different types: first, those of a general educational or legislative nature, which attempt to accomplish general, or group, or environmental betterment; and second, the work of a personal or special nature, which aims to effect better adjustment and more complete development of individuals and families by personal advice and treatment. Some aspects of the first type of betterment work will now be mentioned and the second type will be left for more detailed discussion in subsequent lessons, LESSON DEPARTMENT ???Many of the advances made in the field of health are the result of general measures designed for group improvement. An outstanding example is the enactment of the Sheppard-Towner (Maternity) act, which provides for the appropriation of both federal and state funds for the promotion of maternity and child welfare. The public schools, too, give an example of general work for the good of the group, in their health program, which includes physical examinations, regular weighing and measuring, and the keeping of health charts of the school children. Milk stations, health centers, baby clinics, etc., give health advantages to certain groups and do much to raise the general health standard. The prohibition movement might also be cited as an educational and legislative accomplishment of a group of public spirited individuals who desire to contribute to the general health, moral and social betterment of the race. (Edward T. Devine's Normal Life: Intemperance, pages 141-145.) The tuberculosis campaign and its teachings of fundamental principles of health has been recognized as an important phase of the modern health program. (Normal Life: Disease, pages 152-157.) Various health ordinances, inspection of milk and public eating houses, quarantine regulations. Etc., are all important sanitary achievements and are designed for the protection of the public health..; In the field of industry many significant reforms have been instituted in recent years. The better working conditions, the shorter hours, the higher wages in the major industries of the present show a decided improvement over the conditions of a few years ago. The introduction of skilled personnel officers, whose function it is to endeavor to place the employees in positions to which they are best suited, is another development of modern industry. Industrial insurance, providing for compensation to those disabled in the performance of their labors, has done much to mitigate the suffering of the families where the breadwinner has been injured. Legislation controlling the hours and types of work of women employees is generally considered desirable protective work. The stress that has been placed on the elimination of child labor will be continued until children everywhere will be relieved of the burden of early economic struggle and are given the rights of education, recreation, and natural, normal development. (Normal Life: Working Children, page 65; State and Federal Laws, pages 67-69.) Changes in school standards and educational methods have been marked and many. A particularly significant one to the students of social welfare is that of compulsory school attendance until a minimum age has been reached. (Normal Life: School Attendance, page 69.) The development of a vocational curriculum, the establishment of part-time schools, and the organization of special classes for retarded children, each gives opportunities 54. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to the groups in need of such training, for better future economic adjustment. (Normal Life: Elementary Conditions of Social Education, page 38.) In order to provide recreation of a wholesome nature and to offer an attractive substitute for the commercialized amusements, which are often of a demoralizing nature, public amusements, public parks and playgrounds have been provided by many cities. Some communities, too, have organized festivals, pageants, plays, etc., for both children and adults. (Normal Life: Play, page 42.) Behind all these movements, making their accomplishments possible, is the groping of the group concerned for the improvements and advantages they desire; but added to this group desire has been the power and strength of a large public spirited majority, who have a deep human interest in the welfare of society and the development of the race. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give an example of an act of human service. Explain the motive of the act. 2. Why is organized welfare work necessary? 3. What are the two main types of welfare work? 4. Tell what you know of the development and present status of the Sheppard-Towner act. 5. Give a short. Account of the prohibition movement, pointing out the motives of the leaders. 6. What are the advantages of industrial insurance? 7. When might it be a hardship on a family to comply with the compulsory education ordinance? Should the child be given a "special permit" to discontinue school, or is there some other solution to the situation? TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MARCH THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME?SACRAMENT The Last Supper?''And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and brake it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body. And he took the cup and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it. For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins." Matthew 26:26, 27, 28. A. The sacredness and solemnity of partaking*of the sacrament, - B. The blessings that follow when this privilege is righteously exercised. "Partaking of the sacrament worthily may be regarded therefore as a means of renewing our covenants before the Lord and solemnly witnessing our claim of membership in the Church of Christ." Articles of Faith, page 179. Vacuum Electric WASHERS Washes by Air Pressure and Suction Washes Clothes without injury Machine Co, 72 So. Main St. Salt Lake, Utah Robertson's "EASY" Washing Choose the service which will meet your needs?Wet Wash, Wet Wash Flat Ironed, Rough Dry and All Finished. Troy LAUNDRY Distinctive Work Office 319 Main St.