Time for the Canning Program
AT this time when the efforts of women everywhere are taxed to the utmost, when calls are continually being made upon them to such an extent that the opportunity is scarcely allowed them to pursue the normal course of living, it is imperative that Relief Society members pause in the midst of their daily demands and judiciously review and evaluate the various activities in which they find themselves involved, in order to eliminate less important duties and leave ample time for essential ones.
It is recognized that the same activity will be viewed by different persons as varying in importance, however, the understanding of the great underlying principles of life which Latter-day Saint women possess, should go to form a unanimity of opinion in regard to the essentiality of certain activities. Such an essential activity is the carrying out and satisfying of every call made upon a Relief Society member in support of the great Church Welfare Plan?the Plan of the Lord given to his Church nine years ago by which
the less fortunate Church members are to be provided for in this day. Perhaps never before has so great an opportunity for service come to each and every individual member of the Relief Society. It is true that over a period of many years Relief Society members were able to contribute money for the care of the poor, but the present offering is one of individual, loving service. In the summer and fall months which lie ahead will come urgent and repeat ed calls on Latter-day Saint women to do the major work in the canning program of the Church Welfare Plan. It is hoped that each member may obtain for herself a better appreciation of the great scope of the Plan and a clear vision of its proper place in the Church. The General Welfare Plan "is not the United Order, but is motivated by the same lofty and divine principles and purposes that underlay the Order."
As a call for participation comes to any Relief Society member she will be offered the opportunity of giving her measure of devotion to this Plan in behalf of her neighbor. May no member allow an unessential activity to interfere in any way with the fullest realization of her potential capabilities in this work. May each member rejoice as she sees her efforts, aided to those of her sisters, become enlarged and increased until the results, as viewed over a period of time, will be magnificent. Numberless hours of unselfish toil and labor will lend impetus and momentum to the Plan and, on the heads of faithful, hardworking, devoted members who thus give their full support to the Welfare Plan, will rest the blessings of the Lord as promised to those who by their works show forth a love of neighbor.?M.C.S.