Patterns of Prejudice and Persecution Lesson aim: To emphasize the prevalence of bigotry in the modern world and to show how its existence stands as a threat to democracy, Christianity, and the good life. Lesson 9. Problems oi Personal Conduct Lesson aim: To stress the importance of personal cleanliness, balanced conduct, and self control to the good life. Lesson 10. Leisure and Morals. Lesson aim: To demonstrate a relationship between modes of recreation and morality, and to suggest ways for improving the morals of society by making better use of leisure time. Lesson 11. Women and Morals Lesson aim: To analyze some of the social and moral problems peculiar to women in this modem world, and to emphasize woman's moral role and responsibility in the field of ethics. Lesson 12. Morals In Marriage and Family Relationships Lesson aim: To analyze our most basic social institution from the standpoint of moral conduct, listing some of the common faults, and pointing out some of the principles necessary for correction. Lesson 13. Some Broader Applications of Social Ethics Lesson aim: To examine some of the inequalities and inhumanities existent in the world today, and to show that justice, when not violated, leads to both peace and happiness. Lesson 14. Morality and the Church Lesson aim: To examine religion as a moral force in life; and to point out some of the pitfalls, as well as principles, in religious ethics. Discussion questions and references at the end of each lesson are given to stimulate and guide in a general way rather than to prescribe or limit the work of the class. The teacher should read as widely as is practicable, using Church literature day Saint viewpoint, eliminating, and library materials freely. But and adapting materials as the needs she will need to be discriminating and interests of the class reveal also; sifting according to the Latter themselves. Lesson 8?Patterns of Prejudice and Persecution For Tuesday, October 23, 1945 Lesson link: Last year's lessons in this department were based upon the belief that much of the world's sorrow and suffering could be alleviated by a quick and complete return to virtue. It has been through deserting the great moral principles of the ages that individuals and nations have got into trouble, and the only way that this trouble can be dissolved and real happiness brought to the earth is by an enriched understanding of moral principles and a genuine willingness to apply them in life. Lesson aim: To emphasize the prevalence of bigotry in the modern world and to show how its existence stands as a threat to democracy, Christianity, and the good life. PREJUDICE means pre-judgment on the basis of bias, or without sufficient examination or understanding of a thing. Persecution refers to the act of annoying, oppressing, or attacking someone else to cause him injury or suffering. Prejudice is a perversion of truth and persecution is a desertion of the brotherhood principle. Both are immoral.
"Why persecutest thou me?"
These words of the Lord to Saul might well be applied to many of us in this modern day. Saul, it will be remembered, was prejudiced against the saints and had been persecuting them bitterly for some time. Then, while on the road to Damascus, he was accosted by the Lord who gave him to understand that persecution of the saints was at the same time a persecution of the Saviour. Saul repented, was converted, and later became an apostle in the church (Acts, chapter 9). But just as Saul offended city and worked against his own salvation by harming his fellow men, so do those today who, failing to catch the vision of a Christian world and the spirit of brotherhood which is an essential part of it, remain intolerant and antagonistic toward their fellow men. Selfishness, ingratitude, intolerance, discrimination, oppression?all of these and more are marks of prejudice and persecution. They are offensive to God and are a mockery of morality, and yet the world is full of them and their kind. Unless altruism can push aside selfishness, love outdo hate, and world brotherhood supplant provincialism and the exploitation of peoples, the future will not be bright and mankind will not find the peace and happiness to which it is entitled.
Personal Animosity
When people become too self-centered they lose the "social sense" discussed in an earlier lesson, and through indifference and hate they neglect and abuse their fellow men. Egoism and arrogance lead to selfishness, antagonism, and oppression. The desirable person is the one who is interested in others; thoughtful of their needs, sympathetic with their sufferings, charitable toward their shortcomings, appreciative of their services, and helpful in all things. LESSON DEPARTMENT 445 Love, fellowship, and fraternity are basic in any system of morality. But many of us during some of the time, and some of us during most of the time, fall far short of this ideal. We verbalize the good life in our worship and then fail to actualize it in life. Practice, unfortunately, too, often lags behind preachment. How many of us, for example, give even when we are not asked to, and give unselfishly with no thought of publicity or personal advantage? It has been said that for some people "faith, hope, and charity" means merely having faith in the hope that they won't be asked to give charity. Society is full of handicapped and unfortunate people. How many of us are actively looking for them with the idea of doing something to help relieve their suffering? Or, in contrast, how many of us merely rest on the smug feeling of personal self-righteousness and figure that other people can take care of themselves. If the latter, we would do well to remember that self-righteousness is really not righteousness at all; moral action of the highest order is always oriented toward society. We are our brothers' keepers. The "good Samaritan" will always get closer to heaven than the pious but selfish egotist. When social relationships disintegrate farther than selfish indifference and neglect, when they become actively antagonistic and hostile, then all the more be the need for a return to virtue. When individuals become malicious and militant in their abuse of others, resorting to ill-willed gossip, slander, and other forms of attack, to destroy what they don't like, then morals take a holiday. No system of ethics can be built upon animosity and hate. Let us remember the words of Christ when he said, *'Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you" (Matthew 5:44). If we can love our enemies as well as our neighbors, as Christ enjoined us to do, then we will have no enemies?except the enemy of evil itself. And this, of course, is the good life at its best. Partisan Animosity But partisan animosities are just as prevalent and just as serious as personal ones, perhaps even more so. Religious persecutions furnish one of the clearest examples of this prejudice, intolerance, and persecution in the world today. Many pages of the world's history are bloody with accounts of religious persecutions and wars. It is not our purpose to recount these historical details here, but it is our purpose to point out that war and bloodshed are antithetical to the Christian ideal, and the very fact that there has been so much shedding of blood in the name of religion is evidence enough that this ideal has seldom if ever been reached. Jewish persecution, or anti-Semitism as it is called, has reached new peaks in ferocity and brutality during the last decade or so. Coming mainly from Germany, the movement has spread over practically all the world until now no place is entirely free from its vicious influence. Its spirit is one of hysterical bigotry as intense as the world has ever known. Already there are signs that anti-Semitism may be gaining momentum in America. May it never come! Anti-Catholicism is another example of religious bigotry. There are plenty of instances where individuals have been defeated in office or deprived of other opportunities just because they were Catholics. This should never be permitted to happen in America. Latter-day Saints have so long been the recipients of intolerance and persecution from the outside that they ought themselves to be some of the most tolerant people on earth. Knowing what it is like to be on the receiving end of bigotry and mob violence, we ought to be particularly kind and sympathetic toward other groups now. And perhaps we are. But a little critical group introspection wouldn't hurt, and if made honestly it might lead to the discovery that we are sometimes indifferent or even intolerant toward some of the minority groups suffering at the hands of the prejudiced. Tolerant participation is the answer to religious persecution. The solution to religious conflict does not require an acceptance of foreign dogma. But it does require a tolerant understanding of other groups' points of view and a willingness to work together even without complete uniformity or agreement. Conviction concerning one set of dogma should not preclude tolerance toward others. The Crisis in Morality Partisan animosity and bigotry by no means end with religious persecution, but our space is short and perhaps this will suffice to illustrate. The reader may wish to supplement this with additional examples from economics, government, or other fields. But the point that the very moral structure of our society is being threatened, due to bigotry and a tendency toward expediency, must not be lost. Both Christianity and democracy were founded upon the principles of equality and fraternity; their ideas were humanitarian and unitarian in nature rather than exploitive and individualistic. One need only search the scriptures and then compare them with the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States to know that this is true. And yet we haven't been living that way; our practices haven't been in line with our professions; our actions haven't conformed to our ideals. Christians in name, we have nevertheless been quick to slander and' to persecute. Democratic in the framework of government we have nevertheless maintained our prejudices, fought for selfish vested interests, and discriminated against unfortunate minorities. All of this is undemocratic. It is also un-American, if we are big-souled enough to identify the American way with the right way. The crisis in morality is also a crisis in Christianity, and in democracy, and in the American way of life. The future of all of these institutions depends upon the victory of love over hate, altruism over selfishness, fraternity over bigotry. LESSON DEPARTMENT 447 Problems for Thought and Action 1. To provide a brief review of last year's lessons, show how happiness, progress, freedom, truth, honesty, and brotherhood all fit into an integrated moral system. Note: The class leader will find it advantageous to reread the last lesson from last year's series; i.e. Lesson 7, "Brotherhood, the Key to Greatness." 2. What do we mean when we say that morality is socially oriented? What did Jesus mean when he said, "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" Discuss. 3. Distinguish between personal and partisan animosity and illustrate each. What should be our attitude toward the handicapped and the unfortunate? Why? Use scripture to support your position. 4. Give examples of anti-Semitism. Of anti-Catholicism. Of anti-Mormonism. Compare. Why should Latter-day Saints be particularly tolerant of other peoples? Are we more tolerant than other people? Give examples on both sides of this question and make suggestions for improvement. What is the solution for religious persecution? Discuss. 5. Do you agree that Christianity and democracy are ethical ideals that have not yet been reached? Make suggestions for reaching these ideals. Do you think that the world would then be any more happy? Any more moral? Why? Selected References Standard Works: Bible: Proverbs 16:16-19; Matthew 5:43-48; 6:14-15; 7:1-5; Mark 12:28-31. Luke 6:27-28; 10:25-37; 23:33-34; John 8:3-11; Acts 9; I Corinthians 13:1-13; Ephesians 4. Books by Latter-day Saint Authors: Discourses of Brigham Young, "Our Fellow Men," chap. 24, pp. 417-432. Taylor, President John, Gospel Kingdom, "Truth, Error, and Tolerance," p. 49- Talmage, James E., Articles of Faith (12th Ed.), "Religious Intolerance'"; "Intolerance is Unscriptural"; "Toleration Is Not Acceptance," pp. 398-404. And For Eternity (Continued from page 424) " she whispered time," she whispered to herself, "Hugh's baby on my lap?Hugh watching me?And I can have it if I only hold on?Hugh will come back!" She got up and laid Trudy in her crib, kissed Davy lightly on his dark curls, and went out into the March twilight. And suddenly she was running down the road, swiftly, to the shelter of her home and her room and her thoughts of Hugh. (To he continued) "