Mother of This Land By Wilford D. Lee
Ben Hawkins slapped his bay mare on the rump and sent her down to the spring for a drink; and then, without so much as a glance at the scarlet sky that flamed clear across the western heavens, he dragged the harness into the pole and straw stable and hung it up on a peg. He went to the feed box, and as he dipped up the grain with a gallon fruit tin, he swore. Like many men who are used to being very much alone, he often conversed with himself; in this instance he was no respecter of persons. His square, work-stained face was drawn and bitter. His horses, all eight of them hard muscled and lank, came trooping back from the water, and greedily poked their noses into the grain boxes. When he had slapped and prodded them into their right places, he left the barn and walked with tired, bent shoulders toward the little unpainted house that snuggled against the hill.
The whole scene, to one who had eyes to see, was one of inestimable grandeur. The house and barn, facing east, nestled well back against the great crescent of the hill. Behind them, on the steep slope, was a tangle of quaking asp, choke cherry, service berry and wild rose, all massed together in an impenetrable thicket. High above, the bare rim of the hill lay black against the flaming sky, and was only partly softened by the few tree tops that made a lacy tangle against the clouds. To the east of the hill, the fallow land stretched out in rhythmic loveliness, at this moment washed in a rose light, which was reflected from the evening sky. The robins were singing their evening song, and on the fresh night breeze the smell of fresh growing things mingled with the odor of wood smoke and frying bacon. Farther to the east where another swell rose above the hollow a patch of young wheat rippled in the evening breeze.
Coming to the front of the house, Ben knocked the dust off his overalls with his gloves, and with a sigh, sat down in the doorway. With his elbows on his knees, he gazed with speculative pessimism over the whole scene. This pessimism of his was not a new thing, for lately he had developed a constantly taciturn mood. Last fall when an admiring visitor had remarked upon the grandeur of his view, Ben cut him off with the remark that this wasn't an amusement park, but a wheat ranch; and the view didn't make the price of wheat any better. But tonight he seemed too disgusted with everything even to be argumentative about it.
From where he sat he could hear his wife's steps as she hurried from stove to table and back again. Even the click of Mary's heels on the worn linoleum, a sound which ordinarily tended to revive his spirits, seemed to have no effect upon him. His head dropped to his breast and his fingers worried the frayed edges of his gloves. He didn't glance up when he felt the swish of his wife's dress against his sweat-soaked back.
Mary Hawkins was not a big woman, but she was as lithe and supple as a boy. Due to the strenuous work of the farm her tanned arms showed long thin strands of hard muscle, and the set of her shoulders, though they were small, was vigorous. Mary's face was plain, and a little too delicate for a ranch in the hills; but her mouth was a small, determined slit in the tan; her eyes, wide open and luminous, were intensely alive; yet they radiated a calm power within. She stood lightly touching her shoulder against the doorframe, and her whole countenance, for the moment, was lighted up by the vibrant excitement of the scene before her. When he sat up her strong fingers twisted absently at a strand of her husband's work-damped hair which fell about his ears.
"Seen the cow?" he mumbled. "Myrtle and Billie have gone after her. The horses have eaten off all the feed close around. She has to go a long ways to get anything."
For some time they remained thus in silence; Ben's eyes were screwed up in an agony of thought, and remained fixed on the cleanly swept ground in front of the door; but the woman watched the color shift in intensity from the swales to the ridges, and then melt away altogether leaving the low places in velvety darkness. As the color gathered itself back into the sky to tint the far-off mountains, the robins were silenced, and flew on soft wings to their nests. One little frog squawked lonesomely in the mud about the spring; then into it all came the far-off tolling of a cowbell.
Ben heaved himself around so that he sat crosswise in the door. With his back against the frame, he looked up into the calm steady features of his wife now obscured by the failing light. "Bill Jensen was by as I made that last round to the east fence. He says that wheat's down again, an' prob'ly will go lower. I guess I ought to've sold a month ago when it was higher. There won't be half enough now to pay the taxes."
The woman stood immobile for some minutes while he looked up half expectantly into her face. Finally she said softly, "The color on those mountains to the east tonight was lovelier than I've ever seen it before."
He let his feet fall heavily to the ground. "But Mary!" he groaned, "what shall we do!" He arose, and shoving his fists deep into his overalls pockets, stamped about the yard. "Great heavens! Here we are about to lose our place, and you stand there like a kid mumblin' about pretty colors!" The pain of pent up weeks of anxiety was in his voice. "We can't go on like this. This is the third year the taxes have gone by," he explained as if to a child, "and we will lose the place if they are not paid!"
She said nothing for a time, but when she did, her voice was as velvety as the night that was fast gathering around them. "Will you wash, Ben? The children will soon be here."
While her husband was splashing in the basin on the bench beside the door, the woman lighted a lamp and started putting the food on the table. Presently, with an ever increasing crescendo of sound, the cow came trotting into the yard, and the two children, a girl twelve, and a boy several years younger, hurried into the house.
"Oh, Daddy, Daddy," cried the boy, "look what I've brought. There's six of them... Four big ones, and two half grown!" He held up by their tails for an indifferent inspection a half dozen ground squirrels. "I've learned how to set the traps now so that they run right into 'em. Gee, Ma," he turned noisily to his mother, "it won't be long now, at this rate!" Then he clapped a grimy hand over his mouth and leaped out into the darkness, crying, "I've got a secret, I've got a secret!"
Myrtle, dark eyes mysteriously mature for her age, smiled. "This makes twenty-one pelts that he has stretched on that log. He thinks they will make you a magnificent squirrel coat!" And the two winked at each other understandingly and laughed.
Ben came in and combed his hair, throwing it back from his forehead, exposing an intensely white streak of skin between the tan of his face and the darkness of his hair. His once good looking face, was now, toward middle age, settling into a hard, half wrinkled block, with the light of youth slowly dying. Within a few minutes Billie returned, and they all sat down to their meal.
The food was simple enough: potatoes, gravy, home-cured meat, and eggs. But the potatoes were whipped up into a snowy mound with a generous lump of butter on top. The meat had been diced, and an omelet poured over them. The mother quartered the omelet and served it smoking on their plates. A salad of lettuce and radishes, made from vegetables out of her own little garden, topped with a cream dressing, added a fresh touch to the whole meal. A great plate of bread, sliced not too thick, was stacked neatly and set near the husband's elbow. The father and his boy attacked the food with silent earnestness, the boy imitating his father not only in his large and vigorous bites, but also in having his elbows placed akimbo on the blue checkered table cloth. But the girl and her mother chatted in little humorous sentences about nothing, enjoying their food as they talked.
After the supper was over, the girl prepared to do the dishes while her mother tied on an old apron in preparation for milking the cow. "I'll milk tonight," her husband growled. But the mother, knowing that he didn't really mean it, yet appreciative that he made the gesture, merely smiled. "No, sit still. Alice sent up several Western Farmers for you. They are there on the machine."
Ben thumbed through the magazines absently during the few minutes that his wife was out. Before he had finished looking at the pictures, she was back with her froth-flecked pail. She strained the milk and put it away in the cupboard; then as she washed her hands she said, "I turned the horses out. Do you think they will get down on the grain?"
"Might just as well let them eat it off," he growled ill-humoredly. "We won't get anything out of it anyway."
They all sat at the table. The shaded lamp in the middle cast flickering furtive shadows about the bare little room. The mother sat with her basket full of mending while the father pretended to read. But her husband's eyes would not stay on the page. Glue them as he would, they crept away, here, there, and everywhere except on the lines before him. The deep hurt of life haunted them.
Presently the boy's head sank down on the table, and was asleep. "Myrtle, get Billie to bed," the mother suggested. Then smiling, she added, "Poor child, he runs around as much as a puppy with an overshoe."
"Bill says the sale will take place on the courtyard steps," Ben said, with a strange continuation as if an hour of time had not elapsed since he had spoken of the subject which caused such a tumult in his mind. When his wife did not reply, he hurried on, his lower lip almost trembling in fear. "We've got to raise the money. I'm going down to the valley tomorrow and sell the wheat for what I can get out of it; then maybe I can sell a team or two. If I can get what they are worth, that will save the place." With nervous fingers he ripped off a piece of paper and slowly tore it to bits. "They'll sell it!" he went on, his voice trembling in deep intensity. "They'll sell it, after all the work I've done on it, right over my head. They'll sell it and never think a thing about it... Nor of me. I can go an' starve as far as they're concerned! They'll pauperize me.... Oh, say something!" He pounded the table with his fists.
His wife reached out and covered his rough work-hardened hands with her own. "Please don't think that I haven't any feeling, Ben," she said softly. "I suppose that I'm built different than you. I saw this coming a year ago and I have prepared myself for it."
"A year ago!"
"Yes.... Don't you remember that I suggested last spring that we quit and move to town. Maybe we could have got something to do there."
"A quitter!" he charged, derisively.
"Yes," she replied without emotion, "that is what you said then. And yet I saw this.... We had five hundred dollars then, and now we haven't."
Ben leaped to his feet and paced back and forth, his sock feet making soft thudding sounds on the floor. "But I had to go on!" he cried. "Look what I have invested! I couldn't do that... Just up and quit... Leave everything. I'm not built that way."
"I know you're not," his wife replied without accusation. "You are the heroic kind that must die fighting. I suppose that I'm just coward enough to know too well when to quit. It is your enthusiasm, your eternal hope, that makes you go on. I know how you like to see the stubble roll under the plow, and I know how you like to see the new wheat sprout, and I know how you love to plunge your hands into the stream of grain coming out of the thresher."
"And a lot of good it does me...."
"You are not the first one who has been betrayed by his love."
For a time they remained silent while she carefully drew together the hole in Billie's sock. "Did Bill say they were going to sell his place, too?" she asked.
"No, his is a foreclosure. It's only a couple of months off, though. And so is Les Anderson's and Will Miller's and Andy McGregor's. Two-thirds of the dry farmers in these hills will lose their places this year!"
There was a brilliant light dancing in the woman's eyes. "Alice said that Bill was going to sell what they have and go to California," she remarked.
"He'll never be able to get out of the state," Ben snapped.
"It seems as if there will be lots of horses on the market, now the spring work is about over," the woman observed.
Ben spoke again. "If I can't beat them to it we'll never be able to sell an animal. At that last auction Jim Norton sold a matched team for a hundred and a quarter."
"I wouldn't try to sell," said his wife without looking up.
Ben stopped in his pacing. "You wouldn't!"
"No."
With a little hurt but indulgent smile, he turned and looked down on her. "Well, what would you do?" Ben was not sarcastic. He just had never been impressed with women's opinions. Nor could he understand a woman's way of dealing with things. The only way he knew to deal with a problem was to fight it.
After a moment she replied, "I would keep them."
Ben rolled his eyes to heaven. "What would you keep them for!"
"Oh, we're apt to need them. In fact, I would take the money that you get from the wheat, and buy as many good plows and drills as you can get with it."
Glaring at the woman as if she were mad, he started to speak, then stopped, his mouth half open in consternation. "Ben, come here and sit down," she urged. "We will never get out of this fix by walking the floor all night."
There were times, in his greatest extremity, when Ben found that he could listen to his wife. Usually she was too matter of fact and prosaic for him, usually he would tear himself loose and do something else rather than talk with her. But tonight he was tired. He had fought this question for weeks, and his soul was utterly exhausted. When he sat down, he slumped into his chair, with a blank, whipped expression covering his face.
His wife reached over and pulled the stub of a pencil from the bib of his overalls. On the edge of the farm paper she calculated in round, childish figures. "Let's see; we have 160 acres in wheat... At ten bushels..." A light of belligerency leaped into the man's eyes. "It should go twenty-five," he snapped. He felt intensely that the low figure which she proposed was an insult. "Yes, it should," she repeated, "but it won't. I've seen only one year in the last ten that the wheat went twenty-five. You men remember that year so well that you think it is an average." Ben was about to burst out and argue the question, but he let it pass with a gesture. Yet he dimly realized that she was right.
"One hundred and sixty acres at ten bushels is sixteen hundred. Now at fifty cents...."
"Aw, the price can't stay down forever. We'll get more than that out of this year's crop. If we could just hold on...."
"Yes, that's what we thought last year. But the price is lower now than then.... That gives us about $800 to pay all expenses with and live.... Of course, we have to live," she added parenthetically.
There it was before him in cold figures. He had the feeling of having been trapped. How he hated these sessions! How he hated figures. Figures! As long as he could keep away from them, he could keep his mind somewhat at peace. But figures were the wreckers of fancy. How he loved to dream, day by day as he sat on his plow, watching the sod roll under; dream of the harvest, and fat sacks of grain littering his field like gorged banqueters. It was then that his ever present, effervescent hope would rise within him. How he loved the smell of the new damp earth, and the perfume of broken stems, and the steaming heat of the horses! That was grand soil... You could tell it was by the texture. Twenty-five bushel soil... Yes, thirty, or fifty, if the rain came... But these last few years.... Everybody said that the climate was changing... Getting dryer. It never used to be so dry that... But there were the figures, stark, irrevocable. He looked at them.
"Well, by your own figures," he reminded her doggedly, "you can see that we can't go on. An' yet you say, 'Don't sell the horses!'"
Mary continued as if she had not heard him. "I wonder who will buy this land?" she mused. "I wonder who will come here and live in this house? Who will plow this ground?"
"Say, somebody will snap this land up in a hurry! This is the best land in the hills. Good soil, good slope, and a spring of excellent water, that lasts until August. Why shouldn't they?"
"Why should they?"
"Why should they!" It was totally incredible to Ben Hawkins that anyone should be such a fool as not to grab this land if they had the money. "Will they buy it when thousands of acres just like it are going for taxes, or they are being foreclosed on mortgages? Jones' place has been idle for two years. No one would farm it, even rent free. You know that there are thousands of acres throughout these hills that are vacant right now."
"Well, that's just because the fellows haven't enough money to buy seed, and feed for their horses. They've had hard luck...."
"It means," his wife insisted, with irritating logic, "that dry farming like this just simply doesn't pay."
The inevitable truth sank into the man's work-numbed brain. Why of course, a person would be a fool to buy. He himself was a fool for trying to hang onto it. It was only his love for the land that... His picture of a great excited crowd surging about the Sheriff, anxiously waiting to bid on the land gradually faded, leaving that forlorn executive alone on his court house steps. "Why Mary, maybe there won't be anyone..."
She allowed him to exult over this possibility for a moment, then continued, "Do you remember Billie's thumb last year, when he got it in the tie rope?" Ben's wandering attention was suddenly jerked up. His wife had a disconcerting way of starting off on a new subject without any cause at all, and then later making some obscure connection with the thing which they were talking about. He looked at her suspiciously. "Well, what's that got to do..." He thought a minute, but gave it up. He dimly remembered having given up before...
"That horse was scared when Billie was trying to untie him, and when he reared back, it caught Billie's thumb in the rope."
"Well..." Ben pretended not to be much interested, but that he was listening merely to be polite.
"If Billie had just stood still, and not jerked back, he wouldn't have lost the end of his thumb."
"Well... Still I..."
"We are in a tight place right now. If we don't jerk back, but wait for things to loosen up, maybe we will come out all right."
Ah! There was the connection. The imagination in it intrigued him, though he would never have admitted as much to his wife. Yes, he thought, yes, now if we just don't rear back.... It was a good idea....
"I was thinking," the woman went on after awhile, "that even if we did lose this place, we can rent it back for little or nothing. We will be able to rent Bill's place too, and Andy's, and Will Miller's. They all join on, and would make a grand field if they were all in one piece. With enough horses and equipment we could work a thousand acres as well as we can work this that we have. The profit from, say, five hundred acres of wheat, if it all came to one family, would be enough.... And then, there might come one of those twenty-five bushel years again...."
Eight years later, Bill Jensen drove along the east fence of a huge field which must contain, he calculated in quick side glances from the road, at least five thousand acres. He slowed up automatically where some grass-grown tracks turned in at a gate. He stopped his panting, sizzling old rattletrap, and snapping the decrepit door open and shut, he stepped to the ground. He looked about a bit, then crawled through the barb wire fence. When he was through, he turned and tested the tautness of the wire, remarking to himself of its good repair. He walked off over the finely-mulched soil to a point where once had stood the house in which he and his wife had spent long heartbreaking years. Not a vestige or sign of the old homesite remained. All was smooth rolled soil. He shoved his hands deep into his pockets and viewed the landscape. Over to the west, across the rolling billows of land, he could see the place where Andy had once lived, but no house or barn was visible there now. To the south he turned. Les Anderson and Will Miller used to live down there, but now he could see only great waves of nodding grain.
Bill shook his head and marveled at the change as he stood in the shimmering heat. In his day, the great silence of such moments was never marred except by the swish of the breeze through the dry grass, or the plaintive sweet song of the chirping sparrow. But now he could hear before him, and off to the west, the steady throb and roar of motors. He shook his head again. As he gazed to the south through dim, half-shut eyes, his gaze caught the sight of rising billows of yellow dust. If it had been black, it would have looked like the smoke of a fast-moving locomotive. Bill watched it idly for awhile, and in a surprisingly short time it developed into a new red truck which came tearing along the east fence, and bumped to a stop at his own gate. A half grown young man leaped from the cab, opened the gate, and with jamming gears, plunged the truck through the soft dirt for about fifty yards into the field. Bill looked for a minute, then he shouted, "Well, if it isn't Billie Hawkins." Striding over to the truck, he held out his hand exclaiming, "Well say, Billie, don't you know me?"
The boy looked at the newcomer for a moment, then a flash of recognition flashed across his dust and grease begrimed face. "Well hello, Mr. Jensen. Where'd you drop in from? I thought you was in California."
"Oh, I have just been nosing about the old homestead," he replied, turning away. "Thought I'd come back home for awhile."
The man stood idly by while the boy let down the end gate of the truck and dropped a large drum of gasoline on its side. "I didn't expect to find you here," the old neighbor remarked. "I thought you'd all be moved out."
The boy glanced down at him. "Nope, we ain't moved out yet. Don't suppose we will, either."
"That so?" exclaimed the older man. "Well, well. Workin' for the man that bought all us poor devils out, eh?"
Billie grinned with something of a superior air. "Yep," he admitted non-committally.
The roar of a motor which had been throbbing its crescendo for the last ten minutes grew suddenly louder as a caterpillar tractor thrust its blunt nose over the curve of the knoll. It pulled rapidly up to the truck and stopped, with the dust from its twelve sections of harrow settling in a grey film over everything. Ben Hawkins, now older and more begrimed than ever, leaped from the seat and came forward. Bill stood where he was, looking over the whole outfit with an uncertain feeling of awe and respect. When Ben recognized the visitor, he came over quickly, exclaiming, "Well, well. Old Bill Jensen! Why, I thought you was in California."
Bill grinned sheepishly. "Yeah, I went down there, but we didn't have no luck." Then after a little awkward pause, he went on, "I worked for a Jap on an asparagus ranch for awhile; an' then we picked fruit a lot." He gazed about in envious interest. The boy was filling the tractor's tank with fuel oil, and its radiator with water. "Hey, Billie," the father called. "Did you bring any drinking water up with you? My bag's dry."
"Yeah, here's a bag hanging on this side of the cab."
"Come an' have a drink," he invited his old neighbor with a wink. When they had slaked their thirst Bill remarked, "Golly, but things have sure changed. You'd never think when we was all up here that things'd go this way, would you? Tractors, an' trucks, an' all that. They've sure made a difference, ain't they?"
"Yes they have," Ben agreed seriously, sweeping the vast stretches of land with a look of satisfaction.
When Bill spoke again, it was with a little feeling of hesitation and embarrassment. "Well, you've got a pretty good job here. Who owns the land now?"
"I own every foot of it," Ben announced with pride.
"You do! Why I thought they sold you out with the rest of us."
Ben nodded wisely. "Yeah, they did. But I stuck. I saw something here that I guess some others probably didn't. You see, years ago, we was farmin' pieces that were too small to support a family." Then he recited as if he were saying the words of someone else, "When your profit per acre is low, you've got to farm lots more acres to make a go of it."
"Well, well. So you own this place! By George, that's some different than when I saw you last."
Ben chuckled and shook his head depreciatingly. "Well, you know when you've got your thumb in a rope, you hadn't better do much rearin' back, or you're goin' to lose your thumb. I always say, wait until things loosen up a bit, then work your thumb out." He pulled on his gloves with a professional air. "You know, a man has to be pretty shrewd to beat this game." He hustled over to the tractor and swung into the seat like an engineer mounting his locomotive. "Drive over to the house," he called back to Bill. "The road goes up around the corner. You'll find the house over where it used to be, only the place don't look the same now. Maybe the wife'll be able to scare us up a little something for supper."
Billie spun the motor, and Ben and his tractor were off again in a cloud of dust.