White Hyacinths By Myrtle Wentworth
"If I had two loaves of bread," said a certain wise person, "I should sell one and buy white hyacinths for my soul." If I have two hours of time, shall I not profit by this suggestion and use one of them for the same purpose? There are so many white hyacinths—and they are so lovely! How sad it is to go through life without gathering as many of them as possible. For, after all, it is the soul that is eternal, that should be enriched with beauty, grace, and intelligence, rather than spending all effort in making the body comfortable.
It is very fortunate that most white hyacinths cost so little, except in time. Where are these precious blooms found? We mention the radio. Of course, one must be very careful in this field to pick out the lovely flowers from the many weeds which surround them. But if searched with discrimination, one can find many blooms that are very much worth while. An organ recital, for instance, when the deep melodious tones roll forth soothes the fretted and weary mind. A travel talk may take one for a few brief moments away from the familiar fireside to distant places, dreamed of but never seen. Even a grand opera, formerly within reach of the very fortunate few, can now be enjoyed by anyone who is willing to spend a few hours of time.
Equally accessible, and oh, so delightful, is a good book of poetry. Nearly everyone reads—short stories, novels and so on, but only a comparatively few people have learned the joy that comes from reading poetry. The rhythm, the descriptions of nature, the emotions, the lofty thoughts, all offer a rich beauty to the soul that should never be missed.
Perhaps you are among those fortunate persons who can express themselves in song. If so, your joy will be greatly increased by lifting up your voice with those of other singers. There is always abundant opportunity in ward choirs, Relief Society choruses and similar groups, and your happiness here is increased because you are helping to fill the souls of others with the beauty of the white hyacinths.
How many of us have gone through life without learning the pleasure that comes from an intelligent appreciation of art? Or how many of us pass by the opportunities of viewing fine paintings? Many high schools have the beginnings of fine collections which some of the townspeople have never looked upon. Cities invariably have one or more galleries which are open to the public. If just one good picture could be placed in every home it would repay its cost many times over, for a fine picture is a "window of the soul."
For unlimited wealth of beauty, let us not forget the walk at twilight when dusk blots out the unlovely things of day and leaves only the soft, the gracious and the friendly. If you live in the city, walk to some high spot and look down upon the myriad twinkling lights that turn the city of bricks and stones into a fairyland. If your home is in the country, walk out and see the tall trees become the silent protecting guardians of the houses beneath their branches. Watch the lights that shine forth from cottage windows, telling a story of warmth and cheer within. See a pasture become a covering of rich velvet with the cattle therein gathered together for the comforting presence of their kind.
Never neglect the richness that may come to your soul by the acquaintance of some superior person. Visit with her—not to spend idle hours, but for mutual encouragement, spiritual uplift and mental development. Exchange your flowers with her and you will both have larger and finer blossoms.