Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
Oh fickle April, through your cloudy mists Are flowers, and songs and skies sun-kissed.
In the spring the young maid's fancy madly turns to thoughts of clothes. Why not, with the shops gay as flower gardens with attractive gowns, blouses, accessories and hats—well, beyond description.
Jessie Pastor of New Jersey has manufactured a synthetic ice. She calls it Iccolite and declares it perfect for skating. It may not have as many thrills as a frozen river but is much safer.
Deanna Durbin is charming as ever in her latest picture "Mad About Music."
Sonja Henie, piquant and popular, is one of the biggest money-makers in filmdom. The two amateur skaters Joan Tozzer and Audrey Peppe are becoming her competitors.
Ishbel McDonald, gifted daughter of the late Premier J. Ramsey McDonald, was quietly married last month to Norman Ridgeley in London.
Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor, asserts the loyalty of the American workers. She declares they only seek to improve their economic condition with no desire to undermine the system of private enterprise.
Lucile Papin Borden's "Starforth" and "The Joppa Door," by Hope Williams Sykes are popular late novels.
Melissa S. Messenger, Eliza A. Munson and Lydia Metcalf of Utah, aged 95, 90, 93, respectively, are still engaging in social and welfare work. Each recently was the recipient of honors in her home community.
Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, 91, who practiced her profession for over 60 years was one of eight women in Salt Lake City given a medal and singularly honored for civic service by the Salt Lake City Federation of Women's Clubs.
Rosa Ponselle, metropolitan opera star, has taken a long vacation to enjoy a honeymoon with her polo-playing husband in California.
Princesses Rubije, Myzejan, and Maxhide, sisters of King Zog of Albania, while in America lunched with the President and Mrs. Roosevelt at the White House. The conversation was in French.
Emma Golders Sternes' novel, "Some Plant Olive Trees" is a 19th century story of French exiles, colonizing in the Louisiana Territory. A similar story "The Checkered Years" by Edith Cawdrey, an early Dakota story, seems somewhat like the Icarians who occupied Nauvoo after the expulsion of the "Mormons."
Mme. Chiang Kai-Shek has resigned as commander of the Chinese air force but still Chinese women are being organized and trained to take up arms against Japan.