Centennial of the Revelation on Tithing
The centennial anniversary of the first revelation in this dispensation on the subject of tithing will be celebrated on July 8th of this year. A Church-wide observance of this important event is now being planned, beginning in May, when Ward Teachers throughout the Church will carry the message of tithing to every home. It was on July 8, 1838, at Far West, Missouri, when the Saints were in sore distress that they turned to the Lord for help for the Church. In response to the supplication of the Prophet Joseph Smith the answer was given as contained in Section 119 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Which reads as follows:
1. Verily, thus saith the Lord, I require all their surplus property to be put into the hands of the bishop of my church in Zion,
2. For the building of mine house, and for the laying of the foundation of Zion and for the priesthood, and for the debts of the Presidency of my Church.
3. And this shall be the beginning of the tithing of my people.
4. And after that, those who have thus been tithed shall pay one-tenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them forever, for my holy priesthood, saith the Lord.
5. Verily I say unto you, it shall come to pass that all those who gather unto the land of Zion shall be tithed of their surplus properties, and shall observe this law, or they shall not be found worthy to abide among you.
6. And I say unto you, if my people observe not this law, to keep it holy, and by this law sanctify the land of Zion unto me, that my statutes and my judgments may be kept thereon, that it may be most holy, behold, verily I say unto you, it shall not be a land of Zion unto you.
7. And this shall be an ensample unto all the stakes of Zion. Even so. Amen.
The program for the general observance of the anniversary will be announced soon.
Friends are an aid to the young to guard them from error; to the elderly, to attend to their wants and to supplement their failing power of action; to those in the prime of life, to assist them to noble deeds.—Aristotle.
Greatness is not absolute; comparison increases it or lessens it: A ship which looms large in the river seems tiny when on the ocean.—Seneca.
Notes To The Field
Literary Department.
One can scarcely contemplate hours more enjoyable than lie before the Relief Society literary classes this season in the review and study of "The Romance of an Old Playhouse," by George D. Pyper; nor ought one to begin without first paying a tribute to the author who in a simple and charming manner gives the history and genesis of a peerless institution and loved landmark of the pioneers. Of importance is the fact that the building and operating of a high-class, beautiful theatre in the desert, became an almost unconscious temple of learning, wherein young and old may have gone, presumably to be amused, but at the same time imbibed a cultural knowledge of classical literature and histrionic art. The book from the foreword to the close affords choice opportunity for enrichment whether followed chapter after chapter as written, or chapters by choice, as the director of the work may prefer. The introduction of suitable music, pictures, readings or perhaps an occasional dramatic presentation would enhance the interest. Perhaps in some old chest may be found albums or scrapbooks telling of some of these plays, or laid among some grandmother's treasures with a lace and ivory fan and a pair of white kid gloves, a program on which is written, "when I went with................ to see Adelaide Neilson as Juliet," or "Junius Brutus Booth as King John," or "John McCullough as Macbeth," or "heard the divine voice of Parepa Rosa," or "the magic tones of Ole Bull's violin" and so on ad infinitum. In many communities there are those who either by personal contact or at least by tradition could bring something of worthwhile interest, and always the plays and operas themselves by retelling give valuable entertainment. It is interesting to note the long list of stars of first magnitude and read the titles of the plays presented during the stage coach days: Julia Dean Hayne, the Waldrons, the Couldocks and others. Here your local musicians might introduce some Elizabethan music or other early period, and readings or recitations from Shakespeare, Sheridan and others would be appropriate. The trial scene from "The Merchant of Venice," the balcony scene from "Romeo and Juliet," selections from "Enoch Arden," or perhaps that lesson on human relations from "Uncle Tom's Cabin," where Topsy "who just growed" figures.
After the railroad, the later and more modern plays with all star casts, the light operas and the local dramatic and operatic companies all lend an unforgettable charm to the lessons. Remembered now with many heart throbs! To have witnessed the tragedies, dramas, comedies portrayed by the world's most famous actors and actresses, to have heard the finest music interpreted by great masters of the divine art was the privilege of the patrons of the old theatre; it is the privilege of the present generation to vision it all again in the perusal of "The Romance of an Old Playhouse."
Work and Business Department.
Do you know in laundering that:
To find out exactly how much soap to use with your kind of hard water, send a small bottle of the water to one of the large soap companies. They'll tell you all about it.
For hard water, tri-sodium phosphate or one of the commercial water softeners will cut down on your soap bill. Add it to the hot wash water and wait about five minutes for the curds to form on the top. Skim and add the soap.
Tests have shown that neither overloading nor underloading your machine gives as good results as the normal load. Be guided by the recommendations which are made for your particular washing machine. Use the following figures—approximate, of course—as a guide: Luncheon cloth or bath towel, one-half pound; pillow case, one-third pound; linen towel, one-sixth pound; night gown, one-third pound; cotton pajamas, two-thirds pound; man's shirt, one-half pound; boy's shirt, one-fourth pound; child's dress, one-third pound.
To make starch that won't lump and isn't likely to stick to the iron, follow these directions: Mix one-fourth cup starch with one-fourth cup cold water. Add five cups boiling water slowly. Boil two or three minutes or until clear. Boiling keeps the starch from sticking. Dilute with water to desired thickness.
Theology Department.
The lesson The Influence of the Christ on Civilization refers to George Frederick Handel, composer of The Messiah, as an Englishman. In order that this statement may be clear in the minds of class leaders we quote the following from Britannica: "Handel, George Frederick (1685-1759), English musical composer, German by origin, was born at Halle in Lower Saxony, on the 23rd of February 1685. His name was Handel, but like most 18th century musicians who traveled, he compromised with its pronunciation by foreigners, and when in Italy spelled it Hendel, and in England (where he became naturalized) accepted the version Handel, which is therefore correct for English writers, while Handel remains the correct version in Germany.... The Messiah was produced at Dublin on the 13th of April 1742..... His death took place in April 1759. He was buried in Westminster Abbey."