Music Department MEMORIZATION By Alta B. Cassity HE importance of memorization of music can hardly be overestimated. To be able to memorize, it is necessary to attend particularly to the thing at hand. Thus we see that concentration is the foundation of all memory work, so it follows that the more one concentrates the more rapidly one is able to memorize. All music should be memorized as quickly as possible for only in this way can the best rendition be had. Finer interpretative study can be accomplished when the performer knows by memory the material elements of a composition and its performance. The mind can concentrate upon hearing and feeling a composition only when demands on other senses such as sight for example, (reading of notes) are eliminated. It is possible to achieve greater artistic insight when all pieces are memorized. This fact alone stresses the importance of memorizing. There are various ways of doing this work. Some people visualize, that is, actually see the printed page mentally when singing or playing. Others memorize kinaesthetically, that is, depending on the fingers in playing, or on habits formed of singing certain tones, repeated, in vocal music until a fixed mode is established. Memorizing comes from the association of ideas, directly or indirectly related to the actual notes of the score. The association of two or more ideas with a note will identify that note with the preceding notes more strongly than mere repetition of the note unrelated. It is advisable to memorize only a small section of a composition at a time as better results are obtained than when the entire number is attempted at once. When the mind is given too much to assimilate at one time the small details are likely to escape notice. An eminent present-day artist and teacher, Robert Schmitz, has listed some forms of association of ideas which contribute to memorizing, as follows: 1. Accuracy in sight reading, because first impressions are most vivid. 2. Harmonic analysis, modulation. 3. Form analysis. 4. Rhythmical analysis. 5. Visual memory according to aspect of music on the page. 6. Ear memory correlated with intervals. Memorization is an automatic process when correct emphasis is placed on the various ways of practice. Very often performers will have a number memorized without being aware of it, if the different methods of practice have been carried out properly. Some people seem to memorize much more easily than others, but _after all, it is a habit which can be acquired and should be cultivated by everyone.