Women of the Battalion By J. B. Jennings
"You shall have your battalion, Captain Allen," said Brigham Young, "and if there are not young men enough, we will take the old men; and if they are not enough, we will take the women." There is something of grim humor in the words by which President Young promised a battalion of Mormon volunteers for the service of the nation in the war with Mexico. The march was to be across long desert reaches where it was difficult for any living thing to survive, through mountain gorges where a path must be made with pickaxe and crowbar?more than two thousand miles over the trackless wastes of Western America. It was a venture which only the young and hardy could undertake with any prospect of surviving, yet, almost as if Brigham Young had spoken with the vision of a prophet, women did set forth with their husbands upon that historic march to the sea. History has been kind to the men who comprised the Battalion, and their names are recorded in its pages for the information of posterity. Yet the brave women who accompanied their husbands, like so many of the brave women of the past, have received scant mention in the chronicles of the march of the Mormon Battalion. If their deed was not so spectacular, it was equally courageous. About sixty women and children accompanied the volunteers when they set out upon their pilgrimage from the Mormon camps in Missouri. The first leg of the march was to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, from whence the company was to set forth on the arduous journey to California via Santa Fe. Even before reaching Fort Leavenworth they experienced considerable hardship. One man died and others were stricken with fever before many miles had been covered. A wagon in which were riding the sick and a number of women upset while crossing a creek. Such incidents were not uncommon even in the early stages of the journey. Fort Leavenworth was reached by the first of August. Here the Battalion was fully organized, equipment was issued to the men, and provisions were gathered for the journey. By the middle of August the march was resumed. Santa Fe seven hundred miles away over an almost trackless wilderness, was the destination. Food was not always to be had in sufficient quantities to satisfy the hunger of the Battalion. It was sometimes necessary to make a day's march?and on at least one occasion a hundred miles were traveled?without water. Fuel was so scarce on the desert that it was often impossible to build fires. Henry Standage describes in his journal what was perhaps a typical day in the life of the Battalion: "Started soon after daylight and commenced our toils on this sandy desert; not a drop of water to be seen this morning, nothing to look at but a large dreary desert and here and there a herd of buffaloes or antelopes. I suffered much more than yesterday for want of water; found some rain water about 2 o'clock; drank some of it which seemed to be a blessing. About night we came to a creek called Sand Creek and encamped. Some little grass; 26 miles today." What must have been bitter tragedy to the women and children is described in terse, laconic phrases, "Bro. Dimick Huntington had a cow killed by lightning this evening. He belonged to Co. D. And had his family along." Sickness was common and an occasional death occurred. On August 28, an aged woman named Jane Bosco, died. Two days later, on a Sunday, her husband John Bosco also died. The aged couple had intended to accompany the Battalion to California, where they had expected to settle with others of the Saints. They were buried near the camp, together in death as they had been in life; large stones were heaped over the graves so that those who slept might not be disturbed by wolves; and the march was resumed. Almost every day some progress was made, even though nightfall sometimes found the Battalion encamped but a few miles further along the trail. The mules and oxen frequently gave out and many of them had to be left behind. The volunteers wore themselves out attempting to help the animals drag the heavy wagons through the desert sands.
On the evening of October 9, 1846, the first division of the Battalion marched into Santa Fe, the capital of New Mexico. They were greeted with a salute of one hundred guns ordered by General Doniphan, commander of the post. The remainder of the Battalion did not arrive until three days later. We can judge the arduousness of the march by the fact that at Santa Fe many of the men were deemed too ill to proceed further. There was yet before the Battalion a march of more than one thousand miles through country that was virtually a pathless desert. General Doniphan and Colonel P. St. George Cooke, who headed the Battalion, therefore offered to send the invalided volunteers and the women and children who belonged to the Battalion to Pueblo for the winter rather than have them attempt to reach the Coast. Pueblo was then the rallying point for many of the Saints, who were westward bound, and the offer of escort and assistance to Pueblo for the sick and the women and children was therefore accepted. Goodbyes were said at Santa Fe, the half-way mark in the Battalion's march to the sea. Those who were able trudged on toward San Diego, still more than a thousand miles away; the others wintered in Pueblo, one hundred and eighty miles from Santa Fe, in company with a group of converts from Mississippi. During the following year many of them made their way to Great Salt Lake Valley. Four Mormon wives made the entire journey, which has been described as unequalled in history for a march made by infantry.