FLOWERS.

	THE contented man is never poor; the
discontented never rich.
	Instruction is to the human intellect, what
cultivation is to the soil.
	ADVICE, like snow, the softer it falls, the
longer it dwells upon, and the deeper it
sinks into, the mind.
	A TEACHER who is attempting to teach
without inspiring the pupils with a desire
to learn is hammering on cold iron.—Hor-
ace Mann.
	A SANCTIFIED heart is better than a sil-
ver tongue; a heart full of grace is better
than a head full of notions; a man may be
a great scholar, and yet be a great sinner.
	FAITH IN WORK.—We should not for-
sake a good work because it does not ad-
vance with a rapid step. Faith in virtue,
truth, and Almighty goodness, will save us
alike from rashness and despair.
	APPLICATION.—It cannot be too deeply
impressed upon the mind, that application is
the price to be paid for mental acquisitions,
and that it is as absurd to expect them with-
out it, as to hope for a harvest where we
have not sown the seed.
	IT is a good and safe rule to sojourn in
every place as if you meant to spend your
life there, never omitting an opportunity of
doing a kindness or speaking a true word,
or making a friend. Seeds thus sown by the
wayside often bring forth an abundant har-
vest.
	THE book, as a companion, is always at
your service, always willing and pliable.
You meet with men of service, good think-
ers, good speakers, and you do not know
how to draw them out; but a book is always
open to your wish, and shuts when you de-
sire, something which your professor might
not do. In saying this for books, I do not
forget that they are merely secondary.


An intelligent and sparkling-eyed boy, of
ten summers, sat upon the steps of his fa-
ther’s dwelling, deeply absorbed in a highly
embellished but pernicious book, calculated
to poison and degrade the young mind.
His father, approaching, at a glance discov-
ered the character of the book. 
	“George, what have you there?”
	The little fellow looking up with a con-
fused air, promptly gave the name of the
author. The father gently remonstrated,
pointed out to him the danger of reading
such books, and left him with the book clos-
ed by his side.
	In a few moments the father discovered a
light, and on enquiring the cause, it was as-
certained that the little fellow had consigned
the pernicious book to the flames.
	“My son, what have you done?”
	“Burnt that book, papa.”
	“How came you to do that, George?”


"Because, Papa, I believed you knew bet-
ter than I what was for my good."
	"But would it not have been better to have
kept the leaves for other purposes, rather
than destroy them?"
	"Papa, might not others have read and
been injured by them?"

	LET us cherish good humor and Chris-
tian cheerfulness. Let us endeavor to shake
off that sulleness which makes us so uneasy
to ourselves, and to all who are near us.
Anger, fretfulness, and peevishness prey
upon the tender fibers of our frame, and in-
jure our health.


