WOMEN IN POLITICS.

	The following extract is from an able article in
the Sacramento Record reviewing Professor Gold-
win Smith's arguments against woman suffrage:
"The truth is, that this slurring way of speaking
about female judgment is merely impertinence, nei-
ther warranted by experience, justified by the rules
of candid discussion, nor worthy of a logical scien-
tific reasoner. The man who can deliberately as-
sert that any political judgment reached by any
class of women is likely to be more dangerous,
more imbecile or more fatuous, than the judgment
reached by our western farmers in regard to the
railroad question and the currency, is simply inca-
pable of drawing fair deductions from the facts of
history. But there is no reason whatever for be-
lieving that women would make great blunders in
politics; and that they would war upon man's fa-
vorite ideas; or that, supposing them to have a ma-
jority, the men would revolt against their decisions.
In the Territory of Wyoming, where the experi-
ment of woman suffrage has had a fair trial, it is
found that the influence of women in politics is
just what its advocates have maintained that it
would be, elevating and purifying. It is not found
that the men rebel against the efforts of the women
to reform social abuses, but that they are converted
to their views, and finally aid them in carrying out
the reform sought. And this is the natural result
of according women equal political rights. We do
not anticipate any marked improvement in Govern-
ment from such an extention of the suffrage, be-
cause we know that women are incapacitated, by
long exclusion, for a really active and interested
participation in political agitation at the beginning.
But they possess at least as much intelligence as
men; and they are infinitely purer and more refined.
They will therefore affect the lower phases of pol-
itics first. They will elevate elections above the
plane of the rum-mill, the rowdy and the striker.
They will introduce to the polls not only quiet con-
duct but decent language. They will, perhaps un-
conciously, infuse the filthy pool of politics with a
stream of cleanliness, which will tend continually
to purify its murkiness and render it sweeter and
less objectionable."


