DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:—
	You extend a general invitation to your
readers, to exercise their pens for exchange
of ideas through your columns. I do not
know whether the subject now in my mind
may be wisely presented, or acceptable but
my pen is prompted by a sincere interest to
learn further through the response of others.
My mind has dwelt much upon the United
Order, organized last spring in St. George,
and since accepted by many of our settle-
ments. It has interested me more than any
other principle of our doctrine; and has been
a continual feast for reflection, an encour-
agement, a gladness, and has shone like a
clear light upon many passages of scripture
heretofore not understood by me, O! how
thankful we should be that our spirits bear
witness to the truth of so important and
joyful an advancement of the work in which
we are engaged.
	It seems a first principle of our nature to
desire explanation of everything new pre-
sented to our understandings. Does the
parent always so gratify the child when re-
questing the performance of some duty?
Not always, prompt obedience is the parental
exaction. Could the elder, who baptized
us, tell us then, all the degrees of knowledge
we would pass through in the future; what
new laws we might have made known to 
us? No, we embraced what we then were
taught and understood, expecting more to
follow for our acceptance. Why should we
argue that if we cannot see the wisdom of a
requirement, it cannot be of imperative im-
portance? I call it weakness, folly. Be-
cause a beginner cannot see through the
higher branches of mathematics, or the
wonderful system of astronomy, is no reason
those systems are not true or that the teacher
does not comprehend them. We have been
told, often, that great events await us sooner
than we will be prepared for them. Oh!
let us not waste the precious "last days" in
unavailing controversy with the truth of
the Bible and latter-day revelations, speak-
ing clearly unto our spirits but let us hasten
to toil in the work divine. Indecision,
watching by her faintly glimmering taper,
sees not the wave washing beneath the rock
on which she stands. Christ said, "Blessed
are they that have not seen, and yet have
believed." How inconsistent we are! We
pray for every temporal blessing—for crowns
of glory and lives immortal—we want even
the privilege of dwelling in the presence of
the King of kings and Lord of lords; and,
finally, throw in ourselves and our earthly
all, as a mite in exchange, thinking we will
be only too glad to do so. But on being
taken at our word, we swell with the con-
templation of our own importance and free
agency, and independently withdraw our
earthly all, and ourselves too, perhaps. So
much do we make idols of these things
which perish in the using; these beautiful,
shining, bubble-beads, that we cannot loose
our grasp on them, even to take our heav-
enly crowns.
	How many later converts have repined
because they never had the privilege of
sharing in the early persecutions endured
by the Saints, "I would like to be tried and
proven." Well, be proven in this matter.
"O! but this is different, I don't mean any-
thing of this kind, I mean something soul-
trying, something between us and our ene-
mies; I don't want to be tried by my own
people, that isn't the thing." Well, fellow-
saint, if you'll keep to the Mormon pro-
gramme, you'll have all the outside persecu-
tion you want, and perhaps the martyr's 
crown, too; for the struggle between Satan
and God's saints will last till the Almighty
choose to hold the rebels still, by his strong
right hand.
	Why do the world so hate us? Not be-
cause they consider prosperity, power and
virtue hateful; for the whole world is crowd-
ing to grasp the first two and when they
wish to appear their best, assume the third.
Not one of our enemies but would leap
gladly to the eminence of power our leader
possesses; yet they hate him for their own
lack of power, and because he is a man to
conquer circumstances.
	It is written that our Savior must be re-
tained in the heavens. "until the restitution
of all things." If we we look with desire
for His coming and to hear the welcome
words, "Well done thou good and faithful 
servant;" should we not be swifter to do
His expressed will, to be ready ourselves,
have our houses in order and our lamps well
filled? Among those desiring the blessings
of Abraham, how many consider the great
example of his life and that we must imi-
tate his example, to the extent of our abili-
ties, to purchase or obtain similar blessings?
I have no doubt he lived this same law. I
can think of no more heroic, pathetic or
beautiful example of entire trust in, and
obedience to God than the offering up, in
sacrifice, of his human heart's best treasure,
his beloved son. That act stands a perpet-
ual monument of the sublime and entire de-
votion of his whole being to the will of his
Father; even Him who, in the meridian of
time gave His only begotten Son a sacrifice
for the sins of the world. Who were they
He died to save? His brothers and sisters,
children of the same Heavenly Father. O!
the beauty, the grandeur, the salvation of
faith and obedience, of self-abnegation! By
it the height and end are reached. Christ
prayed in his last prayer on earth that we
might be one. How much that prayer re-
veals to us. If he is our elder brother, and
this earth is to be his kingdom, temporally
as well as spiritually; then is it easy to see
how we will become heirs and joint heirs
with Christ, if we are members in this
United Order. Through this, our children
may become legal heirs to this kingdom's 
temporal and spiritual riches. I rejoice in
the thought that through our united spirits
and labors—when the calamities of wars,
famines, pestilences and other horrors sweep
the earth—our little ones will have legal
right to be shielded by the united strength
of our fathers, husbands and brothers; and
fed from the great harvest house of the
Saints. I would rather my little ones had a
share in this "Order" than in any other In-
surance Co. in the world. And in my hum-
ble but sincere judgement, no Mormon woman
should so dilute her faith, as to give herself
in marriage to any man opposed to this Or-
der. As a gossip once said unconsciously,
(upon a different theme) "I'd rather die an
old maid and be a ministering angel and
carry news." Let us be united and inde-
pendent of what may be said or done against
us; fearless and not ashamed to follow God's
revelations to us. If we yield to the enemy
he is only half our friend, we are in thrall-
dom and weaken our stronghold of defense.
	8th Ward, City.			A. J. C.


A THIRTEEN year old girl of Belvidere,
Vt., took care of a sugar orchard of eighty-
five trees, all alone, last spring.

	NEVER nod to an auctioneer unless you
wish either to buy or be sold.


