THE SEX.
	MISS M. E. Little has been appointed
﻿Agent of the Western Union Telegraph
Company, at Santa Barbara.
	MISS Luella Fay of Springfield, Mass., de-
livered the valedictory and Miss Clara J,
Paige of Chicopee Falls, the salutatory’ ad-
dress at the semi-annual examination of the
Normal School in Westfield, Mass., last 
week.
	HELEN M. Knowlton & Co., are the edi-
tors and publishers of the Worcester "Pal-
ladium." The company is a sister of Miss
Helen, and the firm is composed of the
daughters of the founder of the paper, which
was established in 1834.
	MISS T. F. Panghorn is the present Record-
er of the Probate Court in Chittenden Coun-
ty, Vermont, the records of this court have
been made by women for the past five years,
and they are noted for their efficiency and 
correctness.
	A WOMAN of Polk Country Wisconsin, who
lives in a log house, the logs for which she 
cut down herself, is the mother of fourteen 
children, chops all her own wood, never re-
ceived a dollar from her husband, and is 
not yet forty years old. 
	CLARA Sarah Bernhardt, the refined ac-
tress of the Comedie Francais, is a sculptor,
and devotes as much time to her studies as
she can spare from the requirements of her
dramatic career.  She has a bust in white 
marble, of a young girl, at the Paris Salon.
	THE House Judiciary Committee, to
whom was referred the Petition of Susan B.
Anthony for a remission of the fine imposed
by Judge Hunt, report in an uncertain lan-
guage, their condemnation of the course
pursued in refusing Miss Anthony her right
to a verdict by the jury, and recommend
that the fine be remitted. 
	MISS Harriet Upton has bequeathed a 
thousand dollars to the city of Salem Mass.,
the interest to be devoted to the poor, every
Thanksgiving-day. She also left $500 each
to the Society for the relief of Aged and 
Destitute Women, Female Employment So-
ciety, and Seaman's Orphans and Children's 
Friend Society. 
	UNDER the new school law of California
the following elections have lately taken
place: Mrs. Wm. Cutler has been elected
School Trustee of Jenny Lind Township,
Calaveras Co. and Mrs. A. A. Anderson
and Mrs. J. M. Montgomery to the same of-
fice in Snelling District, Merced Co.  At an 
election for School Trustee, in San Ramon
School District, Contra Costa Co. Mrs. J. O.
Boone was the successful candidate, she suc-
ceeded her husband, whose term had ex-
pired. 
	MRS. Sarah White Livermore, one of the
noted literary women of New Hampshire
of the older generation, died at Wilton last
week.  She was one of the original Aboli-
tionists, and, in connection with Rev. Sam-
uel Barrett of Boston, then a student in 
town, Rev. Warren Burton, Samuel Abbot
and others, founded what was then called
"The Literary and Moral Society," designed
for the mutual improvement of the mem-
bers and of the community, long before the
New England Lyceum was thought of. Also,
in association with Mrs. Phebe Abbot,
mother of Prof. Ezra Abbot of Havard Uni-
versary, and other active friends, she start-
ed a Sunday School in 1816, one of the first,
if not the first, in the country, Mrs. Liv-
ermore would have been eighty-five years
old on the 20th inst.


