DIVERSIONS.

	FRETWORK—Vexation of spirit.

	ENGAGED for every set—A hen.

	WHY is a chicken like a farmer? Because
both delight in a full crop.

	NEXT to a diary, the most difficult thing
to keep is a lead pencil.

	THE earliest financial transaction on re-
cord? When Pharaoh recieved a check on
the bank of the Red Sea, crossed by "Moses
& Co."

	"THERE!" said Jones, as he wrathfully
pushed away the pie which his landlady had
just served him, "that stuff isn't fit for a pig
to eat and I am not going to eat it!"

	"DOCTOR," said a conceited literary man
to Holmes on the streets of Boston, "I am
going to deliver my lecture in Lowell to-
night." "I am glad of it; I dislike those
Lowell people," retorted the doctor. 

	A TOMBSTONE in the Yazoo Miss., ceme-
tary bears the following inscription:
	"Here lies interred Priscilla Bird,
	Who sang on earth 'till sixty-two;
	Now up on high, above the sky,
	No doubt she sings like sixty, too." 

	A PHILADELPHIAN who met a Bostonian
and remarked that Boston would be a fine
city if it was only laid out differently—like
Philadelphia, for instance. "Well," replied
the Boston man, "If Boston ever becomes
as dead as Philadelphia, we will try to "lay
it out" like that city. 

	A WIDE-awake minister, who found his
congregation going to sleep before he had
fairly commenced, suddenly stopped and
exclaimed, "Brethren this isn't fair; it isn't
giving a man half a chance. Wait till I get
along, and then if I ain't worth listening to,
go to sleep, but don't before I commence;
give a man a chance."

	"DOES your arm pain you?" asked a witty
Aberdeen lady of a gentleman, who, at a
party, had thrown his arm across the back
of her chair, so that it touched her shoulder.
"No, madam, it dosn't pain me; but why
do you ask?" "Oh I noticed that it was
dislocated, sir; that's all. The arm was re-
moved.

	WILLIAM M. Evarts tells this good story:
A few summers since, at the urgent request
of one of his younger daughters, he sent up
to his country place in Vermont a donkey
for her use. She had read about donkeys,
but was not familiar with their peculiar vo-
calism. The animal's strange noises inspired
her with profoundest pity for his evident
distress. So she wrote to her father, "Dear
papa, I do wish you would come up here
soon—my donkey is so lonesome."
	
	THEY tell a funny incident which hap-
pened lately at an auction sale of damaged
goods. A pair of blankets were up which
seemed to take the eye of the crowd; the
highest bid was a dollar, from a lady who
determined to have them. But she had an
unseen opponent, who ran her up to five
dollars, and had the blankets knocked down
to him.
	"Yours, Mr. Mae," said the smiling auc-
tioneer.
	Whereupon the lady rose and exclaimed,
"What! my husband?" and raising herself
on tiptoe to get sight of him, "Why, you
good-for-nothing man, you have been bid-
ding against your wife.

	A MASSACHUSETTS farmer says, "My cat-
tle will follow me until I leave the lot, and
on the way up to the barn-yard in the eve-
ning stop and call for a lock of hay." Smith-
son says there is nothing at all remarkable
in that. He went into a barn-yard in the
country one day last week, where he had
not the slightest acquaintance with the cat-
tle, and the old bull not only followed him
till he left the lot, but took the gate off the
hinges and raced with him to the house in
the most familiar manner possible. Smith-
son says he has no doubt that the old fellow
would have called for something if he had
waited a little while, but he didn't want to
keep the folks waiting dinner: so he hung
one tail of his coat and a piece of his pants
on the bull's horns, and went into the
house.


