A MOTHER'S TACT.

	The mother was sewing busily, and Josie,
sitting on the carpet beside her, and provid-
ed with rounded scissors and some old
magazines, was just as busy cutting out
pictures.
	"It would litter up the carpet so," said
Aunt Martha who had come in for a cosy
chat. Mamma knew this; but knew, too,
that a minute's work would make all right
again, and Josie was happy.
	All went well till the little boy found that
he had cut of a leg of a horse he considered
a marvel of beauty. It was a real disap-
pointment and grief to the little one.
	"Mamma, see!" and half crying he held
it up.
	"Play he's holding up one foot," said the
mother quickly.
	"Do real horses, mamma?"
	"Oh, yes, sometimes."
	"I will."
	And sunshine chased away the cloud that
in another minute would have rained down.
	It was a little thing, the mother's answer,
but the quick sympathy, ready tact, made
all right. The boy's heart was comforted,
and he went on with his play, while the
mother sewed quietly, with no jar of nerves
or temper, and auntie's call lost none of its
pleasantness.
	"I'm tired of cutting pictures, mamma,"
said Josie, after a while.
	"Well, get your horse-wagon, and play
those bits of paper are wood, and you're go-
ing to bring me a load. Draw it over to
that corner by the fire, and put them into
the kindling-box. Play that's the wood-
house."	
	Pleased and proud, the little teamster
drew load after load, till all the papers were
picked up, without ever thinking he was
doing anything but play.
	"Well, I declare," said Aunt Martha;
"old as I am, I've learned one thing to-day,
and I wish Emily would come in and take
lessons, I do."
	Mrs. Wade looked up in surprise.
	"What do you mean?"
	"Well, I spent yesterday afternoon over
there," (the old lady had a weakness for
visiting, and was "auntie" to people gener-
ally), and things were in a snarl and high-
de-low all the time—starting with less than
Josie's given you a dozen times since I've
sat here. I've had a good talk with you, and
you've given me pleasant thoughts for a
week to come; over there we couldn't hear
ourselves speak. It was, 'Don't do that,'
and 'You naughty child,' spill and scratch,
and break and tumble, scold and slap, half
the time. Emily means well; she loves her
children, and never spares herself sewing
for them, or nursing them when they're
sick. She has a world of patience some
ways, but she don't seem to have any facul-
ty for managing them. Well, I'll send her
over here, only I won't let on why;" and the
old lady rolled up her knitting; then the
bell rang for tea.
	A little tact, springing from thoughtful
love, how good it is.


A LITTLE child in Georgia recently saved
its foolish father from suicide. Disgusted
with his poverty, though he seems to have
had good health, a Mr. Meredith, of Cusseta,
loaded a double-barreled shot-gun and put
the muzzle to his head. His child ran up
as he fired and knocked the weapon to one
side. The man's life was saved, and he
should live to work, if only for the sake of
that little child.


