			WELCOME.

Welcome, thrice welcome, thou champion of truth—
Most faithful and true from the days of thy youth;
With pleasure we greet thee, nor wish thee to roam,
And many friends meet thee to welcome thee home.
		Home, home, sweet home;
With joy and thanksgiving, we welcome thee home.

Accept as a token our remembrance of thee
A present—though small, not imported—you'll see
'Tis the work of your sisters whose hands love to tell
With the elements grown from our own native sell.
		Home, home, sweet home;
With joy and thanksgiving, we welcome thee home.

Let the adorning our bodies be the work of thy hands,
Are the blesssings we seek, and the Prophet's commands
It was duty that call'd thee from loved ones to roam
Who rejoice in re-union to welcome thee home.
		Home, home, sweet home;
With joy and thanksgiving, we welcome thee home.

	Immediately after the poem, Conselor
Mrs. E. Wilkinson presented the "Hat,"
which is of straw, fine and beautiful—
braided by Mrs. Peart and sewed in Mrs.
Wilkinson's establishment. For beauty it
might adorn the head of a King, but no
earthly monarch's head would so well grace
the hat, as will that of the Hon. Geo. Q. 
Cannon, who arose to receive it, and for a
moment his feelings prevented him from
speaking, when, collecting himself, he re-
sponded in an appropriate address, given in
an eloquent and impressive style. He beg-
ged the audience to pardon his emotions—
expressed his gratitude for the many mani-
festations of kindness, respect and confi-
dence bestowed—said he esteemed this the
greatest honor he had ever received and
that he never so much realized his own un-
worthiness. He expressed his very great
happinness in being again in the midst of
the saints of God—said he had been absent on
many missions, but in many respects the
last had been different from all former ones.
It seemed almost like a visit to the spirits
in prison. He attributed all the success at-
tending his labors, to the blessing and over-
ruling providence of the Most High, the
manifestations of which, to him, had been
very strikingly visible. After many other
interesting remarks, he bore a powerful tes-
timony in favor of Pres. Young as a prophet
of God, and the acknowledged and legiti-
mate leader of this people. He said he
prayed God to bless the sisters, that from
his heart he thanked them for their kind
reception—prayed that God would keep us
in the path and, at last, crown us in his
Celestial Kingdom.
	A song, with accompaniment, by Miss
Minerva Richards followed.
	The following Address by Miss E. R.
Snow, was read by Mrs. E. Davis:
			WELCOME.
TO OUR DELEGATE, HON. GEORGE Q. CANNON.
MUCH HONORED SIR,
				We proudly welcome you,
As a true champion of the rights of man.
You fought the battle, and you fought it well.
You fought for justice and those sacred rights
Our country's Constitution guarantees
To loyal citizens.
				You fought to quell
Aggression's foaming tide—you fought for peace
The same for which our own brave Washington
Once battled—he in martial armor clad,
As standing on King George's claims, he strove
To gain the vict'ry o'er tyrannic sway;
That civil and religious freedom, might
Extend to us. He fought and won the prize.
You stood on "freedom's fair and happy soil,"
To which the oppress'd, from every land, resort:
And there opposed oppression? Yes, and that
Of blackest, direst, foulest element!
Oppression bred by hireling priests, who don
"Heaven's livery" for lucre's sake, and fed
And nursed by hungry politicians, who,
Eager of gain, would, Judas like, barter
Their country's honor, justice, freedom, all—
For what? To gratify their lust for gold.
	You, minus all the glittering pomp of spear,
And sword—all martial trappings, warrior's boast:
Went forth like David, when Goliath dared
The hosts of Israel, and confronted those 
Whose whetted teeth were ready to devour
Your people. You were armed with justice and
With truth.
			Altho' your adversaries had
Th' advantage in unequal numbers, God,
The Great Majority, was on your side:
And Brigham Young and his associates prayed
For you—not only, as the people pray
Within their churches and cathedrals, or,
At the domestic altar, where the pure
And fervent incense rises, but, they have prayed
In holy Order, as the Savior taught.
At their request, his ancient Twelve, to pray.
You knew "the race is not unto the swift,
Nor battle to the strong"—God was your trust.
	The ordeal past, like Daniel from the den—
As Shadrach, Meshek and Abednego
Went forth without the smell of fire upon
Their garments, you, unblemished have returned.
With grateful hearts, we bid you WELCOME HOME.

	Song by the Choir.
	A Welcome by Mrs. L. Greene Richards,
was read by the Secretary Mrs. E. S. Tay-
lor.
	Song, with organ accompaniment, by Miss
Lizzie Davis.
	Appropriate, instructive and cheering
addresses were then made by Presidents
Young, Smith and Wells—followed with
singing by the Choir.
	Refreshments consisting of cake, lem-
onade, candy, raisins, nuts and ice-cream
were served to the guests the number
amounting, probably, to three hundred, and
a season of general, convivial, sociability
followed, after which, the house was again
called to order and several short speeches
were made. Pres. Wells and Elder Taylor
passed high encomiums on the "Hat" and ex-
horted the people to energy and diligence
in home manufactures; Elder Cannon gave
humorous and interesting items of his ex-
perience while in Washington.
	Miss E. R. Snow proposed that, inasmuch
as all are fully satisfied with the labors of 
our Delegate, we guarantee to sustain him at 
the coming election; which was seconded
and unanimously carried, the brethren join-
ing in the vote.
	The evening passed away pleasantly and
at a quarter to eleven, the company was dis-
missed with prayer by Elder Angus Can-
