PEN AND SCISSORS.

	WHAT requires more philosophy than
taking things as they come? Parting with
things as they go.

	WISCONSIN wont let clergymen kiss the
bride any more, and fees have jumped from
fifty cents to five dollars.

	RETIRE to bed early and rise early, thus
saving lamp oil and doctor's fees, and im-
proving your complexion.

	A VERMONT preacher who sarcastically
asked his congregation to pray for the editor
of the local paper, recently, had a bill sent
to him for thirteen years' subscription to
that paper and $300 worth of religious no-
tices.

	THE venerable Dr. Moffat, Dr. Living-
stone's father-in-law, recently delivered a
lecture in London on the illustrious traveler.
Dr. Moffat alluded particularly to his natu-
ral inquiring mind, which manifested itself
from a very early age, to the peculiarly high
class of literature which he studied, and to
the fact that he, like the lecturer, never
read novels or went to a theatre. The char-
acter of Livingstone was, he said, ever sim-
ple, and this was a source of great strength
throughout his whole life.

	TWENTY-ONE years ago, a daughter of
Pete Hawk, Esq. of Stroudsburg, Pa., was
bitten by a mad dog. Although cattle bit-
ten by the same dog were seized with hy-
drophobia, the girl did not show any symp-
toms of the disease. She grew to woman-
hood, and was married. Recently, as she
was raising a glass of water to her lips, a
shudder ran through her, and in a few min-
utes she was seized with hydrophobia in its
worst form. A number of physicians were
called, but they could do nothing for her.
She died in great agony.

	GIRLS, let us tell you a stubborn truth.
No young woman ever looked so well to a
sensible man as when dressed in neat, plain,
modest attire, without a single ornament
about her person. She looks then as though
she possessed worth in herself, and needed
no artificial rigging to enhance her value.
If a young woman would spend as much
time in cultivating her temper, and cher-
ishing kindness, meekness, gentleness,
mercy, and other qualities, as most of them
do in extra dress and ornaments to increase
their personal charms, she would at a glance,
be known among a thousand. Her charac-
ter would be read in her countenance.

	THE argument against the higher educa-
tion of women upon physical grounds is be-
ing vigorously and most successfully at-
tacked. The statistics of the colleges, open
to women show that hard study, even dur-
ing the early period of womanhood, does
not tell in weakened health of the gradu-
ates whose health is as a rule better than
that of women who never attempted to
cope intellectually with men. In the cur-
rent number of the "Popular Science
Monthly," Dr. Van Walker has an article
on the "Genisis of Woman," his conclusion
being that the young woman is as able to
sustain uninterrupted physical and intellect-
ual work as the young man.


