SPLINTERS.
			LOCAL.
	The comet, the only star that could "come
it” with a tail, has “gone from our gaze”
......The grist mill at American Fork, be-
longing to the estate of the late D. R.
Allen, was burned on the 15th ult.; loss
estimated at $7,000......Since the freight on
coal was raised on the U. P. R. R., quanti-
ties of that necessary article have been
hauled from the Weber mines on wagons
......At the Horticultural Exhibition, Miss
S. A. Walker received the prize to be given
to the young lady who should correctly
name the largest number of flowers......Two
parties of scientists, one bound for Pekin,
China, the other for Siberia, paid this city a
visit on their way. They are going to ob-
serve the transit of Venus next December
......The  "Clift House," corner of East
Temple, and 3rd South streets, has been
leased for the purpose of holding the Third
District Court in it, also for offices for the
U. S. officials......A dwelling was lately
shattered by lightning, in Brigham City......
Prof. C. J. Thomas in a public card thanks
all those who took part in the musical exer-
cises of the grand Jubilee for their “kind
and efficient aid”......J. P. Barnard while
returning to his home, six miles north of
Brigham City, fell from his wagon and died
instantly......The ladies should remember
the coming fair and be ready to contribute
their best productions to make it interest-
ing......A cheap excursion from this city to
Franklin, Idaho Ter. and intermediate pla-
ces is to take place in a few days.
		     LITERARY.
	A paper called the China News, printed
in the Chinese language has been started in
San Francisco......The late Lord Lytton, the 
English author, left three or four manu-
script plays which will shortly be published
......The "Worcester Palladium," started in
1834, is now edited and published by the 
daughters of the founder, under the title of
Helen M. Knowlton & Co.
			SCIENTIFIC.
	A new planet was discovered on the night 
of May 19, by M. Perrotin, at Toulouse.
This is the fourth discovered during the
present year......An exhibition is to be held
in the Palais Industrie, Paris, Sept. 15, of
all useful insects and their products, also of
all noxious insects and the evils they com-
mit.
			PERSONAL.
	Miss Susan E. Dickinson, a sister of Miss
Anna D., intends entering the field as a lec-
turer......[mogene, the daughter of N. P.
Willis, the poet—having married a spend
thrift, is now compelled to drudge along in
poverty......Miss Sallie A., daughter of Sam
Bowels of the Springfield Republican, hav-
ing married Mr. Hooker will soon take a
bridal tour to Europe......Gen. Beauregard
has accepted the office of Chief Engineer 
of the Argentine Republic. The induce-
ment was $25,000 a year......Mrs. Lincoln
is in Paris......Mrs. Mapleson, wife of the
director of Her Majesty's Opera, London, is
said to be the leading belle in London socie-
 ty......Mrs. Frances Ellen W. Harper is glv-
ing lectures in Illinois......Minister Jewell
is returning from St. Petersburg to assume
the duties of Postmaster General......Gen.
Garibaldi is said to be helpless through par-
alysis......Rev. H. W. Beecher is sixty-one
years old.
			ARTISTIC.
	The Academy of St. Luke—an art school
at Rome—has lately adopted a resolution to
admit women as pupils on equal terms with
men......Miss Thompson's now celebrated
picture "Roll Call at the Crimea" has be-
come the property of the Queen......Among
the exhibitors at the Royal Academy Eng-
land, this year, we noticed the names of
Miss Backhouse and Mrs. E. M. Ward, the
paintings of both artists were commended.
			GENERAL.
	The steamer "City of Guatemala," from
New York to Aspinwall, was lost off one of
the Bahamas; no lives lost......A fire in the
Boyce building, Chicago, on the 22nd ult,
destroyed property worth $250,000......
Henri Rochefort is in London......A fight
occurred between the Indians and Rangers
and U. S. cavalry on the 24th. The Ran-
gers and cavalry were repulsed with a loss
of over fourteen killed including the com-
mander of the cavalry......Another fire oc-
curred at Chicago on the 30th; loss 35,000.
The same day a fire at Danbury, Conn, de-
stroyed White's extensive fur factories......
Germany is trying to get the great powers
to recognize the Spanish Republic.......The
widow of ex-Congressman Mellish has been
appointed to a $900 clerkship in the Treas-
ury Department......On the 38th ult., the
upsetting of a kettle of boiling lard started
a fire which destroyed the landings of the
great Prince's dock at Liverpool; damage
estimated at $1,000,000......Five men were
killed by the Indians in New Mexico on the
21st......The Grangers have commenced
loading  new wheat, at San Francisco, for
the foreign market......Rev. Mr. Goodrich,
grandson of Noah Webster, died lately in
Switzerland......At Alama, Spain, a terri-
ble land slide destroyed the village; but few
escaped; 200 corpses were recovered.


