HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
					—
	Entertaining Visitors.—It has always seemed to
me that the social relations of civilized people, and
especially of women, were strange inconsistencies.
A woman, or a company of women, about to visit
a neighbor for an afternoon must send word a day
or two beforehand, that there may be previous
cooking, baking and fussing, or be left alone in the
parlor to entertain themselves as best they can,
while the one with whom they intended to have a
social chat is bustling about in the kitchen in a
great heat and hurry to prepare as many and as rich
and costly cakes and nicknacks for them as they
could prepare for her; not that she cares for such
things herself—she would much rather have a little
time for rest and sociability; not that she thinks
her visitors have come for the purpose of getting
something to eat (though there are many who, tak-
ing advantage of social customs, visit for that very
purpose), but because it is a foolish, sinful practice
among people, to see which can outdo the other in
such matters. If word is received by a family that
near and dear friends or relatives from a distance
are about to visit them, instead of planning and ar-
ranging their work so as to have time for conversa-
tion and intellectual communion, the whole household
is thrown into a great worry and excitement in re-
gard to the furnishing and arranging of rooms, and
to the quality, quantity and style of edibles that
shall be put upon their table; and instead of being
in a pleasant, social mood to receive their guests
when they arrive, perhaps after a tiresome journey,
they are worn out with their exertions to make an
outside show that, had they the time, they have no
disposition nor ability for social intercourse, and
the visit that was looked forward to with many
anticipations of pleasure and profit, proves to be a
sad disappointment to one party, and a burden and
vexation to the other.
	I do not wish to be understood as advocating
slackness or indifference in regard to these things;
so far as is consistent with our duties and circum-
stances, we should attend to the personal wants and
comforts of our guests; but the concocting of rich
articles of food, that were better never to be eaten,
to the exclusion of pleasant cheer, the scrupulous-
ness in regard to style in preparing and furnishing
rooms to the exclusion of the home-feeling, for
the sake of not being outdone by our neighbors, is
altogether wrong, and productive of much evil.
Besides the injury done our social natures, there is
too apt to be. on such occasions, an overtaxing of
the strength of housekeepers, wives and mothers.
—R. N. Yorker.

	Glue Pot.—Nothing about a house is more use-
ful than a glue pot, so many things may be repaired
by means of it. If the knobs on the bureau
drawers become loose they can be speadily fastened
again by the timely application of a little glue. If
the thread of the screw has become worn put on
some glue, and then wind on some flax or tow if
you have it, or a soft rag, then put on more glue
and fasten on the knob and it is all right. If pieces
of veneering fall off the furniture they can be re-
placed by means of glue and a feather, and many
other things can be mended that make quite a say-
ing in a household.


Removing Glass Stoppers.—The easiest way to
take out a stopper which has become fixed in the
neck of a bottle is to reverse the motion given to it
when putting it in, that is to knock the stopper
from right to left. In most instances when a stop-
per is fixed, without the intervention of an adhe-
sive substance, it is by turning it as one would
drive a screw. The direction is almost invariably
from  left to right, and thus a thread is formed
which is easier to follow backwards than to break.
The trouble with which the removal of stoppers is
usually attended must form my apology for intro-
ducing a suggestion of so little apparent importance.
—Can. Med. Record.


