FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE House of Commons, England, is
cooled by an air machine.
	OUR railroads are stripping the country of
timber for ties, etc., at the rate of 1,000,000
acres per annum.
	IT is now ascertained that the famous Cen-
tury plant, so beautiful in bloom, and yet so
rare, buds and flowers every sixteen years,
instead of once in a hundred years, as has
been long supposed.
	THERE were thirty-seven newspapers
published in the colonies on the commence-
ment of the Revolutionary War, in 1775with these began the Independence of the 
Nation. On the 1st of January, 1835, there
were 1,258 daily, semi-weekly, and weekly
newspapers issued. In 1870 there were
published in the United States 542 daily
and 4,425 weekly newspapers. The num-
ber of copies of the daily papers printed in
that year, reached, in round numbers, 800,
000,000.
	THE Domesday Book of Scotland, just 
presented to Parliament, shows that, within
a fraction, half the whole extent of Scotland
is held by 106 landowners, every one of
whom owns more than 20,000  acres. There
are 25 persons among these who own more
than 50,000 acres each. The Duke of South-
erland stands at the head of the list, having
a domain of 1,176,343 acres, in addition to
which, his wife, the Countess of Cromartie, is
the owner of 146,879 acres. The area of
their combined property is greater than that
of any county in England, except Yorkshire
and Lincolnshire.
	THE bridge to be constructed over the
Frith of Forth will be far the largest in the
world. According to the "London Builder,"
its height will be one hundred and fifty feet,
and the number of spans nearly one hun-
dred. The smaller span will be one hundred
and fifty feet wide, which is beyond the
average width of ordinary bridges; but the 
crowning marvel in the whole structure is 
the great span in the centre, which is to  be
fifteen hundred feet, or nearly one-third of
a mile—an extent unparalleled in any ex-
isting structure of the kind. The entire
cost of the bridge will be at least ten mil-
lion dollars.


AN Englishman, being asked how he
spelled saloon, replied, "With a hess, a hay,
a hell, two hoes, and a hen."


