EDITORIAL NOTES.

	JAPAN HAS done a sensible thing, if re-
port speaks truly, in prohibiting the public
exhibition of deformed persons and other
human monstrosities.

	MISS FRANCES Willard lately resigned
her office of Dean of North Western Uni-
versity because she could not agree with
the faculty in regard to the government of
the college and preparatory school.

	THE LADIES' Physiological Society fo
Brooklyn has started on the war path against
corsets, high-heeled shoes, false hair and
every other fashion injurious to health and
physical beauty.

	THEY HAVE no big snake stories at St.
Johnsville but make up the deficiency by
claiming that a farmer there has hens which
build their nests in the trees and lay their
eggs in them.

	NANCY W. COVILLE, of Keene, New
Hampshire has publicly protested against
having to pay taxes while she is a disfran-
chised citizen and not allowed to vote for
the "powers that be." This she considers
"taxation without representation." The
rights that the few are struggling for now,
will, we hope, be enjoyed by the many in
the early future.

	"THE ATTORNEY General has decided
that, irrespective of the time or place of
marriage, or the residences of the parties,
a white woman married to a citizen of this
country is to be taken and deemed a citi-
zen of the United States"—Washington Star.
Which shows that the legislators who con-
ferred the elective franchise on the women
of Utah are not the only ones to be con-
demned for holding the same ideas concern-
ing woman's citizenship.

	THERE WERE six women in the gradua-
ting class of the University of Michigan at
Ann Arbor. One lady student received the
degree of Pharmaceutical chemist, another
that of Doctor of Medicine. The ladies
belonging to the graduating clases attended
the usual commencement dinner at which
about 350 persons were present. It was re-
marked that the speakers addressed their
hearers as "ladies and gentlemen" for the
first time, there having been so few lady
students in the classes of '72 and '73 that
they did not feel like attending these state
dinners.

WE CLIPPED the following from an exchange
because we concurred with the closing sen-
timent, especially if the judge referred to
is the Mr. Poland that labored so diligently
in the last Congress to procure special and
unjust legislation for Utah: "When Judge
Poland reported unfavorably upon a large
number of petitions asking for Woman
Suffrage in the District of Columbia, we are
told 'that the leaders of the Woman's
Rights movement watched this report from
the gallery with much indignation.' We
hope that this indignation will make itself
felt some day, in remanding such men to
private life."

	TWENTY-FIVE married women of Daven-
port, Iowa, have formed themselves into a
mutual improvement society, styled the
"Clionian Club." This we read in a letter
to the "Woman's Journal" in which the
writer observes "Don't you think it would
be a good plan to organize such a club for
the young women? And in this way, by
essays and discussions, get many interested
in the "Cause" who otherwise would give
it but little attention." While the need of
mutual effort is thus felt in other places the
sisters here can feel that their wants have
been anticipated by the organizations of
Relief and Retrenchment societies for
both old and young.


