HOME AFFAIRS.
	MATTIE GAYLORD, eminent as a lecturer, is
in town and expects to lecture this evening,
subject: Our girls, what shall we do with them."
	AS ANOTHER instance of Utah's resources a
fine quality of soapstone has been discovered
by Mr. Gibson. The deposits are said to be
within ten miles of this city and are very exten-
sive.
	E. W. EAST having declined the nomina-
tion of Justice of the Peace for the second pre-
cinct in this city, the committee have placed
George Crismon's name on the ticket for that
office.
	AN INGENIOUS invention for running street
cars with steam as a motive power, has been
introduced here recently. From the view we
had of the car and "steam dummy," as it
passed our office, on its trial trip, we think it
will be quite a success, as it seemed to be easily
controlled.
	THE PEOPLE of Box Elder County have
nominated Jonathan C. Wright for Represen-
tative to the Legislature and Samuel Smith
for Probate Judge. Davis County has nomi-
nated Anson Call and W. G. Smith for Rep-
resentatives and W. R. Smith for Probate
Judge. Both Counties support the People's
Territorial Ticket.
	IN ACCORDANCE with section four of the late
Act of Congress, better known as the "Poland
Bill," the Hon. Elias Smith Probate Judge of
Salt Lake County and Joseph E. Nounnan,
Clerk of the Third District Court, met at the
Court House on 23rd ult. and prepared a list of
persons to act as jurors. This list of names
with residences has been published in the 
daily papers.
	THE FIRE Brigade enlivened the evening of
the "Twenty-fourth" by a torchlight proces-
sion on a special train of flat open cars. They
lighted their torches at the northern limits of
the city from whence the train moved slowly
to the southern end, then returned to the Sta-
tion and run up to the Temple block where the
firemen got off and marched to the Ice Cream
Gardens to spend the remainder of the eve-
ning.
	DURING a late thunder storm, the Roman
Catholic church was struck by lightning, at-
tracted by the cross on the dome. Part of the
dome and one of the pillars that supported the
gallery, were shattered and some other damage
done. The lightning is supposed to have made
its exit through one of the windows. A gen-
tleman, who, with two ladies, one on either
side, was walking past at the time was knocked
down by the flash while the ladies were un-
touched.
	THE DESERET Horticultural Society, held
its first regular exhibition July 15th, 16th
and 17th, to the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms.
Such exhibitions enable professional garderners,
and others to present before the public the
choicest specimens of fruit, flowers, and other
productions that would be out of season when
the territorial fair is held in the autumn. The
display of fruits, flowers and vegetables this year
was fine; and among the attractions pre-
sented was a minature landscape, composed of
a variety of materials, the artistic work, chiefly
of Mrs. E. M. Barnum.
	A PUBLIC CAUCUS was held at Logan, Cache
Co., July 25th, C. C. Hurst was chosen chair-
man and J. A. Leishman, Secretary. A com-
mittee was appointed to nominate precinct
officers and consider the previous doings of the
county convention. The nominations of the
county caucus which included B. Young, Jr.
and W. B. Preston for Representatives in the
Legislature and M. D. Hammond for Probate
Judge were endorsed; also the Peoples Territo-
rial Ticket. Several nominations for precinct
officers were made after which the meeting was
adjourned.
	DELEGATES FROM the different precincts in
Weber county met in convention in Ogden on
the 18th ult., after effecting an organization,
with T. A. Brown as chairman, they adopted
a ticket of territorial and local officers to be vo-
ted for soon. Among the names were: Geo.
Q. Cannon for Congressional Delegate; John
Van Cott, Lewis S. Hills and John Robbery,
Commissioners to locate University lands;
Lorin Farr and Chas. W. Penrose, Representa-
tives to the Legislature; F. D. Richards, Pro-
bate Judge. The Circular published by the
People's Territorial Committee was read
and adopted by the Convention which re-
solved itself into a committee to co-operate
with the central People's Committee. These
items we gather from the Ogden Junction.
	SCHOOL TEACHERS and those who intend to
teach in this county should read the following
notice taken from the Des. News. Such ex-
aminations, we believe, tent greatly to improve
the grade of teachers and those who cannot
pass satisfactorily learn of their deficiencies
and what they must do to come up to the prop-
er standard:
	"A second examination for the school teach-
ers of Salt Lake County will be held in the
University Building, Salt Lake City, on Sat-
urday, Aug. 8th, commencing at 9 a.m. Teach-
ers should come prepared with pens, paper,
and ink, as the examination will be conduct-
ed primarily by manuscript, also with a cer-
tificate of good moral character.
	$2.50 will be charged each applicant, to de-
fray expenses.
		Board			O. H. RIGGS,
		   of				JOHN R. PARK,
	   Examination.		H. I. DOREMUS.
	THOMAS WILLIAMS, Esq., widely and favor-
ably known in the community died unexpect-
edly on the 17th of last month. Early in the
afternoon he went home to his dinner and
while seated at table suddenly commenced to
vomit blood. After throwing up considerable
blood he lay on the sofa to rest but was very
weak and apparently unable to answer when
addressed. Soon after his eyes were closed in
death. A coroner's inquest held the same eve-
ning, rendered the verdict that he died from
the bursting of a blood vessel. He was born
at Newport, Mon, England. His life was such
that he won the love and esteem of all who
knew him and it could be said that his friends
were as numerous as his acquaintances. He
was a member of the church High Council,
Treasurer of the general Z. C. M. I., member
of the City Council, part proprietor, and one
of the Managers of the Theatre. The obsequies
held at the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, were
very largely attended and the funeral proces-
sion comprised over eighty vehicles.


