WHAT IT IS TO BE A WIDOW.

	"I think it must be a jolly thing to be a
young widow!" I heard this remark the
other day, in a group of laughing girls. I
think I remember saying such a thing my-
self in my girlish times. Do you know,
girls, what it is to be a widow? It is to be
ten times more open to comment and criti-
cism than any demoiselle possibly could be.
It is to have men gaze  as you pass, first at
your black dress and then at your widow's
cap, until your sensitive nerves quiver un-
der the infliction. It is to have one ill-na-
tured person say, "I wonder how long she
will wait before she marries again?" and
another answers, "Until she gets a good
chance, I suppose." It is now and then to
meet the glance of real sympathy, generally
from the poorest and most humble woman
you meet, and feel your eyes fill at the to-
ken, so rare, that is, so unlooked for. It is
to have your dear fashionable friends con-
sole you after the following fashion: "Oh,
well! it is a dreadful loss. We know how
you feel it, dear." And in the next breath,
"You will be sure to marry again, and your
widow's cap is very becoming to you." But 
it is more than this to be a widow. It is to 
miss the strong arm you have leaned upon,
the true faith which you knew could never
fail you, though all the world might forsake 
you. It is to miss the dear voice that ut-
tered your name with tenderness that none
other could give it. It is to hear no more
the well-known footsteps that you flew
gladly once to meet. To see no more the


face that to your adoring eyes seemed as the
face of, the angels of God; to feel no more
the twining arms that folded you so loving-
ly; the dear eyes, that looking into your
own, said plainly whatever it seemed to
others, yours was the fairest face earth held
for him. It is to fight with a mighty sor-
row as a man fights with the waves that
overwhelm him, and to hold it at arm’s
length for awhile, only to have—in the
hours of loneliness and weakness—the storm
roll over you, while—poor storm driven dove
—you see no heaven.


