R. S. REPORTS.

	The Bountiful Relief Society and Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association met on
16th of June. Sisters E. R. Snow, M. I.
Horne, R. Grant, L. Wells, and — Wells
were present from Salt Lake City. After
singing and prayer, Sister E. R. Snow in an
interesting address on a number of topics,
referred to the institution of the Relief So-
ciety in the days of the Prophet Joseph and
said it was organized for the benefit of the
sisters that they might be united in their
efforts to do good. She concluded with
some counsel and encouragement to the
young ladies. Sisters Horne, Grant and
Wells followed with appropriate instructions
and exhortations to the sisters. Remarks
were also made by Elders Erastus Snow, of
St. George, and by Elders Stoker, Call and
Barlow, all expressing satisfaction with
what they had heard. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks; closed with singing, and
prayer.
	ELIZABETH H. BARLOW, President,
				MARY CARTER, Secretary.

	KAMAS, SUMMIT Co., July 12th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I send you a report of a meeting held on
the fourth of July, for the dedication of a 
house built by the Relief Society of this
place. Bishop S. F. Attwood, P. H. Young,
W. Harder and other brethren were present.
The Dedicatory prayer was offered by Bish-
op W. Harder. Much valuable instruction
was given to the sisters by Bp. S. T. Att-
wood and other Elders who were invited to
address the meeting. Several of the sis-
ters also spoke of the goodness of God and
expressed their determination to progress
and assist in every good work for the build-
ing up of the Kingdom of God on the earth.
The good Spirit of the Lord was enjoyed by
all present. Our society house is a one
story building, twenty-one by eighteen feet
in size and is well finished for a log build-
ing, logs being the best material we could
obtain in this place. We thankfully ac-
knowledge much assistance from our bishop
and several of our brethren, both of good
counsel and, what is still better—hard labor.
At the meeting, much regret was felt for the
absence of our President, Sister Mary J.
Attwood, who is just recovering from a long
and severe illness.
		PHEBE YOUNG, Asst. Secretary.

		    SMITHFIELD, July 19th, 1874.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our annual meeting, held May 12th, was
well attended by the members and all
seemed to enjoy a good spirit. Bishop Ros-
kelly was present, gave some excellent in-
structions and expressed himself well satis-
fied with the progress of the society. The
financial affairs of the Society are in a pros-
perous condition. Its income, for the year
ending May 12th 1874, amounted to $165.47;
of this $117.47 has been given to the poor,
the P. E. Fund and other objects. Besides
this the Society own shares in the co-opera-
tive Store, vouchers of the U. N. R. R. and
other property amounting to $276.98. Pres.
Mrs. E. T. Morehead and her counselors
made some excellent remarks in which the
EXPONENT was highly spoken of and the
sisters desired to subscribe and write for
it.			J. S. COLEMAN, Secretary.

