FLORAL HINTS.
				   —
	TO REVIVE WILTED CUTTINGS.—Hearth
and Home says, "mix three or four drops of
spirits of camphor with an ounce of water
and keep their stems in this fluid for half a
day or more, in a dark place, till they have
entirely recovered."
	TRAINING THE WISTARIA.—Wistarias are
naturally climbing vines, but are readily
trained into almost any form that may suit
one's fancy. I have a plant trained as a
dwarf shrub; it is four feet high and about
five feet across the branches, there being
upon it at this time 271 drooping clusters
or racemes, each nearly a foot long, of bluish
purple flowers. It is not difficult to train the
Wistaria as a self-supporting shrub, it being
only necessary to pinch off the ends of the
young shoots in summer, thereby restrict-
ing its growth to prescribed limits. This
constant checking of growth in summer
causes a rapid increase in fruit, or fruiting
spurs upon all the branches, the result of
which appears in the profusion of flowers
the ensuing season. If any one has a Wis-
taria of any variety or species which fails to
bloom satisfactorily, they have only to ap-
ply the "pinching" process to correct any
tardiness in this respect.—R. N. Yorker.
	STRONG FERTILIZER.—It represents the
fertilizing principles of at least one hundred
times its weight of concentrated animal
manure, and supplies to the plants nitrogen,
phosphorus, potash, sulphur, and iron in
a completely soluble state. The compound
consists of 400 parts of nitrate of ammonia;
200 parts biphosphate of ammonia; 250
parts nitrate of potash; 50 parts muriate
of ammonia; 60 parts sulphate of lime, and
40 parts sulphate of iron. These ingredi-
ents are pulverized and mixed. One dram
of the powder (about a teaspoonful) is then
dissolved in a quart of water and a wine-
glassful of the solution given two or three
times a week, in accordance with the health
and luxuriance of the vegitation.
	The plants may be placed in any kind of
earth, however poor, even pure sand, or
may not be potted at all. It is stated that
certain flowers, the fuchsia, for example, may
be cultivated without earth by simply plac-
ing the stalk in a jar, at the bottom of which
is an inch or so of water, just sufficient to
cover the ends of the roots. To the fluid a
proportional quantity of the fertilizer is
added, as above specified, once in eight days.
The foliaceous development of plants treated
with the substance is said to be truly won-
derful, and yet the rapid growth of the
leaves does not interfere with the most lux-
uriant flowering. To this we may add that
quite recently we have tried a compound
hastily composed of the majority of the sub-
stances above detailed, merely as an experi-
ment, on a small and sickly fuchsia. The
plant was drooping and little else remained
than a half dry stalk. After two applica-
tions of the fertilizer, its effect was appar-
ent, and at the end of ten days, during
which probably half a pint of the solution
had been supplied to the earth, new shoots
had sprung out, leaves formed, and the en-
tire plant became perfectly loaded down with
buds.—Scientific American.


SPEAKING of the half-naked statue of
Washington, which cost $50,000, in the
East Capitol Park, Grace Greenwood wittily
says that his outstretched arms point re-
proachfully towards the glass cases in the
Patent Office, where hang his much-desired
habiliments.


