THE WAY OF PARENTS [WRITTEN FOR THE JOURNAL OF EDUCATION | I trudged to school on my two cold feet and carried a dinner pail; He glides to school in a limousine with two "spares" tied to its tail. Yet I'm pretending to understand the thoughts of my little elf? Like other folks in this changing world, I'm fond of fooling myself! I worked all day in blistering fields, nor got a cent of pay; He dodges the "cops" from morn to night, in search of a place o play. And yet I "father" him right along, and swagger, "Yes, I know,'? This world of his is another world from the one where I had to grow. I fed the beasts at morn and night; did many another chore. To dress and breakfast and find his books is his limit?sometimes more. While I fondly pray that he, some day, may rise much higher than I, I have robbed the boy of everything that I was aided by! ?Strickland Gillilan. Guide Lessons for December LESSON I Theology Lesson THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD (First Week in December) In this lesson our aim shall be to consider the value of the Spirit of the Lord as a source of understanding and as an influence shaping our lives. A. A Source of Illumination. For the Race. "There is a spirit in man, and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding." Accepting this scripture as true, and believing in the dectrine of opposites to the extent of a conviction that there is a being using his power against the power of God, we may safely assert that there is a spirit in man and the spirit of the Evil One giveth it misunderstanding. Man, then, finds himself between two opposing influences with the freedom of choice, but this freedom of choice is a gift? a gift denied by one and given by another of these centers of power, God and Satan. Had Satan succeeded in putting over his plan for our earthly existence we could 'not have become free agents, but would have been without the Spirit of the Lord, and our condition under his "constitution" may be judged by -contemplating the words of President Joseph F. Smith. (See Gospel Doctrine, page 76.) The great universal function of the Spirit of the Lord is to "light men and guide them through mortality." (For the distinction between the Spirit of the Lord and the Holy Ghost, see Gospel Doctrine, page 82.) Through the illumination of the Spirit of the Lord mankind will be led to the understanding that Generosity pays better than greed; Kindness is stronger than cruelty; Forgiveness is sweeter than revenge; and Freedom is a better governor than force. B. Progress. 1. The Spirit of the Lord a Spirit of Order. Understanding without orderly application is akin to faith without work, ideas without expression. 'My house is a house of order, and not a house of confusicn." (Doctrine and Covenants, GUIDE LESSONS 521 132:8. This scripture may have a physical as well as a spiritual application. 2. The Spirit of the Lord a Spirit of Discovery. "And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles who was separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters, and I beheld the Spirit ef God that it came down and wrought upon the man, and he went forth upon the many wa'ers, even unto the seed of my brethren who were in the promised land."?Book of Mormon, I Nephi, 13:12. The student attitude of Columbus aided the inspiration cf the Almighty just as it did in the case of Joseph Smith seeking to discover which of the churches he should join, when all were confusion in relation to God ideas. Every step forward made by men, of scientific investigation, is prompted by the Spirit of the Lord. The discoveries which have cut down the death rate among children, inventions which have made it possible for man to do more in one day than he could do at one time in a month, to travel farther in ene hour than he could in a day, to communicate with more people in a minute than he once was able to do in a lifetime?all these things are due to the promptings of the Spirit of the Lord, responded to by man. It is encouraging to note that some of the greatest of these truth-finders, whe may not unfittingly be called scientific saviors, acknowledge the source of the illumination which made their achievements possible. 3. The Spirit of the Lord a Spirit of Freedom. "And it came to pass that I beheld the Spirit of the Lord that it wrought upon the Gentiles, and they went forth out of captivity upon the many waters."?I Nephi 13:13. 4. The Spirit cf the Lord a Spirit of Thrift. "And I beheld the Spirit of the Lord that it was upon the Gentiles and they did prosper."'?I Nephi 13:15. It is significant that the people who came to America for religious freedom, i. E., seeking God, have prospered, and the gold hunters have not prospered. 5. The Spirit of the Lord is a Spirit of Peace. Premptings to conciliation are from the Lord, but feelings of subjugation, thoughts of peace at any price, are out of harmony with the Spirit of Him who drove the speculators out of the temple and ordered Satan to get behind Him. On these grounds we can understand what He meant when He said, "I came not to bring peace into the world," for He knew that peace was far behind His mortal birth. 6. The Spirit of the Lord a Spirit of Service. Since companionship of the Spirit of the Lord is full of free will, it is above compliance or forced faithfulness. It is never servitude. It has in it the jog of privilege. It is helpfulness with 
 preparation; it IS leadership with love; it is masterful as well as meek; it is the service that springs from within, draws strength from 'above and builds gratitude below. It is the service spoken of by the Savior when he taught that to be master of all meant to be a servant to all, a service as irresistible as the gouloeznrn and as certain of success as truth is of triumph. 7. The Spirit of the Lord a Spirit of Sacrifice. Sacrifice begins where convenience leaves off. From the giving of a smile or a kind word to the standing aside that another person may pass on, or, the giving of one life that another. May live. The promptings of the Spirit toward sacrifice is an urging towards one of the best investments in the universe. He who was wisest in the choice of values said, "And if I be lifted up from the earth, I will draw all men unto me." (John 12:32-33.) Few may be called on to die for others, but all are called to live for others, and in so doing we but follow the great Exemplar. C. Four Things that Especially Encourage the Spirit of the Lord: "Sincerity, kindness, charity, and purity of thought.'?Doctrine and Covenants 121:42-45.) QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. State the universal functions of the Spirit of the Lord. 2. Correlate the statements of President Joseph F. Smith on the Spirit of the Lord with the thoughts expressed in the hymn beginning, "Know this, that every soul is free." 3. Discuss the proposition, "There is a spirit in man and the spirit of the evil one giveth it misunderstanding." 4, Mention the seven headings of this lesson given under the heading B?Progress. 5. Read or quote Doctrine and Cevenants, 121:42, 45. LESSON II Work and Business (Secend Week in December) GUIDE LESSONS 523 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in December) RALPH WALDO EMERSON Ralph Waldo Emerson defies analysis but the effects of his work seem permanent. It has never been an easy thing to tell why one individual entrances and another fails to impress. We only know that such a thing occurs just as we know that the sun shines and gives off heat. Ralph Waldo Emerson was born into a world where spirituality was failing in its essence. There was much of the letter and little of the spirit. The youths of New England were struggling to break the bonds of the past, for they really considered themselves in bondage. They were spiritually starved when Emerson appeared as the phyand felt, and feeding them with that which nourished the spiritual nature.: Mr. Pancoast pays him this tribute, that "he was the most represenita'ive person of the new movement called Transcendentalism. He was the most influential in shaping its form and character. To say the best what men all around one are laboring more or less ineffectually to define and put into words, is to become a prophet in one's ewn country. Emerson did this, and perhaps this personal power to stimulate and inspire and make the vague more tangible and effective, was the greatest element of his work, In a lecture delivered at the last session of the National Education Association, at San Francisco, David Starr Jordan refers RALPH WALDO EMERSON ' sician of their souls, explaining to them what they thought 
 to the great teacher by saying, "A great teacher always leaves a great mark on every student with whom he comes into real contact," Judged by this rule, Ralph Waldo Emerson was one of the greatest teachers of which we have record. Hawthorne said, "that his mind acted upon other minds of a certain constitution with a wonderful magnetism and drew many men upon long pilgrimages to speak to him face to face." Lowell, who belonged to a somewhat later generation, says, "He brought us life, and was to generous youth the sound of the trumpet that the young soul longs for." "The cause of this power," says Pancoast, 'lay in the fact that Emerson found the right word for ideas and enthusiasms which the men about him were laboring to put in tangible form. He stood and spoke for the peculiar temperament and for the intellectual traditions of New England as modified and enlarged by the new spirit of his age." Another of his contemporaries said that to pass him in the woods on a summer morning was like the passing of an angel. One of the greatest tributes ever paid to Emerson was at the centenary of his birth. People struggled then, as they have always struggled, to explain what it was about him that put him above and beyond others, and in an attempt to do this thing one of the speakers said, "When a young man I went to a lecture and there I listened to a man who had seen Mars. I was intensely enthusiastic over the fact that a man had seen Mars, but later this thing paled into insignificance, for when I saw and heard Ralph Waldo Emerson I knew that I had seen and heard a man who had communed with Ged." The idea was prevalent among his admirers that he was very close, always, to the Divine Source. To be sure the practical minded were a trifle suspicious of him, and Dickens tells us that when he was in America he was assured, "that whatever was intelligible would certainly be transcendental," and even Lowell, who was a very good mixture of the practical and idealistic, poked some fun at the transcendentalists, stating, "that not a few impecunious zealots adjured the use of money, unless earned by other people, professing to live on the internal revenues of the spirit. Communities were established everywhere where everything was to be common but common sense." Those who admired Emerson would regard these criticisms as either designed to create fun, or as being from those who having eyes see net or having ears hear not, so far as Emerson was concerned. Our author came of a very distinct line. He could count among his ancestors eight ministers, both on his father's and on his mother's side. Undoubtedly as a young man he expected to hold up the family traditions in this respect, but he could not accept the doctrine taught by his church in relaticn to the sacra- GUIDE LESSONS 525 ment, consequently he made a frank statement to his congregation in relation to his belief and resigned his position. Emerson was born in Boston, in 1803, very close to the place where Benjamin Franklin was born. His life was the life of a thinker, a lecturer and a scholar. It ran along rather smeothly and was uneventful except in the intellectual realm. Emerson wrote both essays and poetry, giving to all he wrote an indefinable charm that can be felt and sensed but which does not admit of description. The thing that makes his poetry valuable is the thing that has made his essays valuable?flashes of light and wisdom couched in epigrammatic language, coupled always with an appeal for the dominance of the over-soul, which merely means the soul. That which made Emerson mighty was his constant struggle to reveal the spiritual that he saw in nature and in life. One thing he was reasonably successful in doing was to refute the charge of gross materialism that has been hurled at the American ever since the beginning. A Frenchman said of him, 'In this North America, which is pictured to us as so naterialistic, I find the most ideal writer of cur times." Emerson "longed constantly for a better world and a grander generation' ? "Men of mold, Well embodied, Well ensouled." He had faith in the power within men that lifts them upwards. "In city or in solitude, Step by step, lifts bad te good, Without halting, without rest, - Lifting better up to best." Emerson had unwavering faith in the life beyond, and in anticipation of death, he wrote: "When frail Nature can no more, Then the Spirit strikes the hour; My servant death, with solving rite, Pours finite into infinite." These excerpts from Emerson's poems will give us an idea of his manner of writing. It was he whe. Preached the gospel of "plain living and high thinking. He also argued for ambition, suggesting that we hitch our wagon to a Star.: Emerson was not inclined to argue. He felt that the truths he voiced were self-evident. Constantly people were asking him to prove his statements, and just as frequently he replied, "Prove that which is self-evident! What use is there to prove that the sun shines, that the night is dark, etc.? These things are apparent to all." And se it was with the spiritual truths that were so clear to Emerson. 'They were apparent to him and to many others who listened to him, yet it is also fair to say that there were people who 
 could not always recognize that the things he said were self-evident. Emerson deeply loved nature and his essay on Nature is full of passages that the lover of nature revels in. Emerson, of course, had his short-comings as a writer. Asa poet he was not musical, consequently it is an easy matter to come across bad lines in his verse. There is an unevenness in all of his writings but it is impossible for one who ascended the heights to maintain so loftly a position always, even though that position be attained by means of the spirit. In all of Emerson's activities, whether he contributed as teacher, lecturer, poet or essayist, it is intellectual brilliancy and scintillation of light thatt marks his course. He was a veritable comet who dragged behind him a path of light, often times in the midst of much darkness. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give the date of Emerson's birth and the date of his death. 2. How old was Emersen when he died? 3. In what year was the centenary spoken of in the lesson held? 4. Have somebody read the "Concord Hymn" to the class and tell the occasion for the writing of the hymn. 5. What does Emerson mean when he speaks of "embattled farmers'?; 6. What does he mean when he speaks of a "shot heard reund the world"? 7. Have the poem "Rhodora" read to the class. What does Emerson mean when he says, "Beauty is its own excuse for being'? 8. Select a passage from Emerson's Essay on Nature that impressed you as being especially beautiful, and read it to the class. 9. Discuss the passage read, if time will permit. LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in December) THE HOME AND ITS SPIRITUAL OBLIGATION "Wherefore, verily I say unto you, that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law GUIDE LESSONS 527 which was temporal; neither any man, nor the children of man, neither Adam, your father, whom I created." Doc. & Cov., Sec. 29:34, The above revelation indicates that the Lord is concerned with man's spiritual welfare and his salvation, not so much with "material and temporal, neither carnal nor sensual." He views the problems of the home and the family in the light of the eternal destiny of man. When the Lord commands his servant to "set in order his family, and see that they are more diligent and concerned at home, and pray always," least, "they should be removed out of their places,? he was concerned not merely in overcoming the present strife, and making temporary adjustment, but in their eternal welfare and happiness. The family relationship is sacred for it is eternal. And God's commandments concerning its welfare are eternal. In fact all the revelation concerning temporal affairs as viewed in their religious significance, are necessary to the salvation of man. Spirituality the Great Aim The lessons which have preceded and which have dealt with the ordinary problems of home life are spiritual insofar as they function in preparing the sons and daughters of God, physically, mentally and socially to meet the great spiritual and moral demands of life. Marriage implies more than mere physical comfort. Unless it inspires a higher and better life, it is not all that God intended it should be. Such interests as book learning, music and dramatics, have their place, but they must not be permitted to push to one side the deeper spiritual and sympathetic elements. It is the duty of the home to develop the tender and refined emotions and spiritual feelings. If faith in God and love of humanity does not develop in the home they will likely not develop anywhere. "Homes are wrecked," says Cope, "because families refuse to take home-living in religious terms, in social terms of sacrifice and service. In such homes, organized and conducted to satisfy personal desires rather than to meet social responsibilities, these desires become ends rather than agencies and opportunities. "They who marry for lust are divorced for further lust. Selfishness, even in its form of self-preservation, is an unstable foundation for a home."'?Cope: Religious Education in the Family, pp. 1-2. What Spiriutality Implies Spirituality must first show itself in the home. Unless the spirit of worship, of love, of faith, of prayer is found in the family circle, it is likely not to be found elsewhere. It is common knowledge that the criminals and moral delinquents of all kinds are the products of homes that do not have a proper spiritual 
 atmosphere. Love between husband and wife, parents and children, mutual helpfulness, kindness and sympathy constitute essential elements in the spiritual atmosphere of the home. Spirituality Extends Beyond the Home The spiritual duty of the family extends beyond its own circle. As members of the Church, we have a message to the world. Every member of the Church is a teacher and preacher of righteousness. It is a wholesome attitude of mind for the younger members of the family to feel that some day the virtues, the standards, the principles of faith which the home inspires will be carried by them out into the world to bless the lives of humanity everywhere. It is proper for every father and mother, every son and daughter of Zion, to look forward to the time when he or she-can play a more active part in saving human souls. Whether the service is in the missionary field or in the local organizations of the Church makes little difference. All who work in the cause of truth and of virtue, all who remove ignorance, sin, and suffering are in God's work, their mission is spiritual. QUESTIONS 1. What did the Lord mean when he said that all his laws are spiritual? 2. Show that the highest aims of life are spiritual. 3. Do all the practical problems of family life have spiritual significance? Explain fully? 4. Explain why God considers the important relations of life as more than merely temporary? ~ 5. What does Cope say regarding the importance of the family being based upon a religious foundation? I 6. Show that unless spirituality is developed in the home it likely will not develop elsewhere. 7. Is faithful attendance to church a sign of spirituality? What else may be considered as an indication of spirituality? 8. Why is it important for every member of the family to feel that he is expected some day to teach and preach the Gospel? 9. What can a woman with a family of little children do to advance truth and righteousness outside of her own home? Teachers' Topic for December SPECIAL SIGNIFICANCE OF CHRISTMAS TO THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS (a) This, the centenary anniversary of Moroni's visit. (b) The calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith into service. (c) This, the fulfilment of the promise of all ages. Vacuum Electric WASHERS EASY Washes by Air Pressure and Suction Washes Clothes without injury Robertson's ?EASY? Washing Machine Co, 72 So. Main St. Salt Lake, Utah  Choose the service which will meet your needs?'Wet Wash, Wet Wash Flat Ironed, Rough Dry and All Finished.