AN EDITOR'S WIFE.

[Column 1]
	Yes, I'm Mrs. Peter Snow, an editor's
wife. I well remember the day when Mr.
Snow asked me to become his wife. I con-
fess I liked Mr. Snow, and thinking it
would be a very fine thing to be the wife
of an editor, I said yes as pretty as I knew
how, and I became Mrs. Snow. I have seen
ten years of married life, and find my hus-
band to be an amiable, good-natured man.
He always spends his evenings at home,
and is in that respect a model man; but he
always brings a pile of exchanges, which is
only limited by the length of his arms, and
reads, while I patch the knees and elbows
of our boy's pantaloons and coat. After we
have had a Quaker meeting for an hour's
length, I break the silence by asking:
	"Mr. Snow, did you order that coal I
spoke to you about?"
	"What did you say, my dear?" he asks,
after a few moments' silence.
	"Did you order that coal I spoke to you
about?"
	"Indeed, my dear, I am sorry, but I for-
got all about it."
	Another hour's silence, which is relieved
by the baby's crying, and, rather liking to
hear a noise of some sort, I make no effort
to quiet him.
	"My," says Mr. Snow, after he has cried a
minute or so, "you had better give the ba-
by some catnip tea to quiet him; he troub-
les me."
	The baby is still; another hour passes
without a breath of noise. Becoming tired
of silence, I take a lamp and retire for the
night, leaving Mr. Snow so engaged with
his paper that he does not see me leave the
room. Towards midnight he comes to bed,
and just as he has fallen asleep, the baby
takes a notion to cry again. I rise as quietly
as possible, and try to still him. While I
am walking the room with a young Snow
in my arms, our next—a boy of three years
—begins to scream at the top of his lungs.
There is no other course but to call Mr.
Snow, so I call out:
	"Mr. Snow! Mr. Snow!"
	The third time he starts up and replies:
	"What! Tim; more copy?"
	As though I was Tim, that little imp run-
ning about the office. I reply rather tartly:
	"No, I don't want any more copy—I have
had enough of that to last me a lifetime—
I want you to see what Tommy is crying
about."
	Mr. Snow makes a desperate effort to
rouse himself; as Tommy stops to take a
breath, he falls asleep again, leaving me to
pace the room in as much vexation as I
can comfortably contain. The next morn-
ing, at breakfast, when I gave Mr. Snow an
account of last night's adventures, he re-
plies:
	"Indeed, my dear, I am sorry the child-
ren troubled you."
	This is always the way. If I even com-
plain, it is: "Indeed my dear, I am very
sorry."
	But should the very same thing occur the
subsequent night, directly before his eyes,
very likely he would not see or know any-
thing about it, unless it happened to inter-
rupt his train of ideas. Then he would pro-
pose catnip tea; but before I can get it into
the infant's stomach, he will be far away into
the realms of thought, leaving me not a
little vexed at his stupidity.
	Mr. Snow knows the nature of every pa-
per published in England and the United
States, but he cannot for the life of him tell
the names of his children. He knows pre-
cisely the years of every American Journal,
but he does not know the age of his own

[Column 2]
baby. He knows how every contributer
looks, but I do not believe he can tell wheth-
er my eyes are black or blue.
	They say Mr. Snow is getting rich. All
I know is, he gives me money to clothe our
boys, and that, too, without a complaint of
poverty. I hope the world is right in its
opinion, and when I am satisfied it is, I
shall advise him to resign his editorial hon-
ors and spend a few months in becoming
acquainted with his wife and children. The
little ones will feel much flattered in mak-
ing the acquaintance of so literary a man.


For the EXPONENT.
REFLECTIONS OF A YOUNG MOTHER.
	Morn amid the mountains,
	Lovely solitude;
	Gushing streams and fountains
	Murmurs God is good.
	I often feel like chanting these beautiful
lines in the morning when I arise from my
bed of peaceful slumbers to take up once
more the daily duties of housewifery;
they seem to be so in harmony with our sur-
roundings amid the mountains, where we
are enjoying a goodly portion of God's
choicest blessings, health and quietude.
	I feel like breathing forth a prayer of
gratitude to my Heavenly Father for His
protecting care, the society of a husband
who is constant and true, healthy and intel-
ligent children and the privilege of living
in this last great dispensation. We are
surrounded with all the advantages we
need wish for and if we only make the
best of them, we have all the necessary
comforts of life, which if we cannot pro-
duce we can purchase from abroad. I do
think if we would try and appreciate these
blessings and then contemplate our situation
were we deprived of them, we would not
be so easily led away with the foolish fash-
ions of the world.  We all know that times
will not always be as they are now, that
great changes must come, that some time in
the near future we will have to depend up-
on our own resources; when we understand
these things it is apparent to all women as
well as men, that it will be to our advan-
tage to lend a helping hand towards becom-
ing a self-sustaining people.
	If the extra means and time which are
spent for things we do not need, only to
keep ourselves fashionable, were spent in
the educating of our children in the princi-
ples of the Gospel, they would have more
confidence in and more love for us, and as
they grew up to manhood and womanhood
their minds would not be so easily led as-
tray; for children naturally follow the ex-
ample of their parents. Oh, would it not
be a great satisfaction to see them all liv-
ing the lives of Saints.
	I am but a young mother and have had
but little experience, but in my hours of
gratitude and contemplation this subject
presents itself to me forcibly. In this light
your excellent little paper has found its way
into a number of families in this place. I
can say for myself it is read with great ben-
efit. My desire is that I may make good
use of the instructions which are held forth
to one and all.
		D.[--]F.[-]D.
	Oxford, Oneida Co. Jan 14th, 1876.


