WARN YOUR GIRLS.

[Column 1]
	It has always been and is still the case, that,
in general, the boys of a family are regarded as
being of more importance that the girls. This
fact is too well understood to require delinea-
tion from us. Nor is it our purpose here, to
discuss the propriety or impropriety of this
custom. But without wishing to see one parti-
cle of interest withdrawn from the boys, it
would still be gratifying to realize that a more
lively and intelligent interest had really been
awakened for the girls. To be effectual and
permanent, such an interest must become an
individual one as well as being so widely
spread; it must be found at home as well as in
congregations of reformers.
	Parents, mothers, are too apt to believe their
daughter so pure minded that there is no dan-
ger of their becoming contaminated. For their
sons there is more fear. They will probably
go out into the world unguarded and alone.
They must be warned of the temptations which
throng life's pathway. They must be taught
that sin leads to death, and that truth and in-
tegrity lead to light and life eternal. O! that
these lessons were more faithfully taught more
indelibly stamped upon the hearts of boys, that
they might be more lastingly remembered and
revered. that every man might be a man of
honor, a man of God! Then, indeed, there
would be less fear for our girls. and they
might well be left in ignorance of what has
been or what might be, to indulge in all the
confidence of unsuspecting innocence.
	But it is not so. and the folly and weakness
of men render it most essential that girls should
be taught something concerning themselves,
the world and some of its miserable ways, be-
fore the time when they may be cast uncere-
moniously upon its deceptive surface.
	The good and wise example of a noble moth-
er, is without doubt. the greatest of all moni-
tors to a conscientious and dutiful daughter.
But this is not enough. She, as well as her
brother should be taught by precept and re-
ceive explanations in relation to various vir-
tues and their opposite evils.
	What true Christian mother ever reared a
son without spending hours, days and even
years in admonishing him? Numberless ex-
amples—like the following, for instance—may
be found every day:
	"Twelve or fifteen years ago," said Ex-Gover-
nor Briggs, "I left Washington three or four
weeks in the Spring. While at home I pos-
sessed myself of the letters of Mr. Adams'
mother and read them with exceeding interest.
I remember an expression in one of the letters
addressed to her son, while yet a boy twelve
years of age, in Europe. She says: 'I would

[Column 2]
rather see you laid in your grave than you
should grow up a profane and graceless [-]oy.'
	After returning to Washington, I went over
to the White House and said to President Ad-
ams, 'I have found who made you!'
	'What do you mean?' he asked. I replied, I
have been reading the letters of your mother.'
	If I had spoken that dear name to some lit-
tle boy who had been for weeks away from his
precious mother, his eyes could not have flashed
more brightly or his face glowed more quickly
than did the eyes and face of that venerable
old man, when I pronounced the name of his
mother. He stood up in his peculiar manner
and said, 'yes Mr. Briggs, all that is good in
me, I owe to my mother!'
	O! what a testimony was that from this ven-
erable man to his mother, who had in his re-
membrance all the stages of his manhood!
Mothers, think of this when your bright eyed
little boys are about you."
	Thus mothers admonish their sons; and are
besought so to do, the world over. While ex-
ample is generally thought sufficient for the
daughter. Perhaps this is because the latter
betrays less natural tendency to go astray.
	But let the maidens foot once slip, and what
do we hear! 'She must have been naturally
wicked." or "she was evidently constitutionally
weak." These and similar and harder express-
ions are too frequently and too freely made use
of by people in general; and alas! by inexperi-
enced women in particular, when it is known
that one of their number, one like themselves
has fallen from the pleasant way, the peaceful
path of virtue!
	Even sisters guileless and innocent them-
selves, but also thoughtless. realizing nothing
of the tempter's power, have been known to
treat the fallen one with cornful reproach in-
stead of comforting pity. And mothers, often
themselves equally at fault with the dishonored
child, have given cruel taunts where only the
tenderest sympathies should have been awak-
ened.
	It is not our object to plead excuse for wrong
doing in any form. But a little solid reflection
upon these things, when the ignorance of most
girls and the rashness of some men are duly
considered, will bring the reasoning mind to
wonder more that so many are saved than at
the terrible truth that some are lost.
	Mother, tell your daughter ere it be too late,
how carefully she should conduct herself under
all circumsances where men and love-making
are concerned. Tell her, for she may not be
aware of this important fact, that kissing and
hand-pressing are entirely out of place be-
tween unmarried ladies and gentlemen, except
in cases of actual and honest marriage engage-
ment. For although these things may seem
trifling and unimportant in themselves, they
are often precursors of terrible tempations.
	And that all attempts at such familiarities
from a man having no honorable right, should
be resented by her in an unmistakable manner.
Teach her to be he self most circumspect and
to demand and comm nd uch respect from oth-
ers, that she will truly be in little danger of be-
ing contaminated under any circumstances
whatever.
	You do not know to-day, most faithful moth
er, what trials and temptations may beset your
daughter to-morrow, or in years to come. You
cannot be always beside her, to draw her to
yourself when dangers threaten, but you can
warn her while you have her yet with you.
Think of the experience you have yourself pass-
ed through, and what you have known and
heard of many others, and warn her. Remem-
ber that temptation alone is the test of virtue,
and that she who has not been tempted, though

[Column 3]
she may be pure as an angel of light, has not
been proven virtuous. But there is great wis-
dom in shunning temptation; how is your
daughter to shun it while she knows not of its
existence?
	Warn her concerning the temptations and
how to avoid them; at the same time you will
be teaching her the priceless value of her purity
and how to preserve it.


