DEAR EXPONENT:
	I thought I would like to write a few of 
my thoughts for my young sisters of Utah.
We are now living in a day and dispensa-
tion when we can find plenty to occupy us.
I think we ought to store our minds with 
something that is good and useful. There
is a great work for us to do before the com-
ing of Christ; and we are the chosen ones
to do this work. Therefore it behoves us
as daughters of Zion to pray to our Father
in Heaven to guide our steps aright, that 
we may be worthy to set an example for
the world, and show them that we are not
what they represent us to be. We should
resist evil temptations, and live so as to
help those who are surrounded with evil
influences.  We should not scorn those who
are beneath us in station, for we are all God's
children.  He loves those who love Him and
keep His commandments whether they be
rich or poor. We should attend our meet-
ings regularly and learn all we can, for we
will need all the knowledge that we can ob-
tain. Let us show to the world that we can
excel them in all good works, and in every
respect and under all circumstances, be
truly ladies although we are Mormons and 
the world despise us. Let us pray to God
to help us, and may He bless us all is, the
[---]est prayer at all times of a young sister.
	Yours with love,
		MISS R. J. MATTHEWS.
	Santaquin, Jan. 10th, 1876.


THE term "grass widow" is said to be a
corruption of the term "Grace widow," the
former expression being merely a barbar-
ism. "Grace widow" is the term applied
to one who becomes a widow by grace of
favor, not of necessity, as by death, origi-
nated in the early ages of European civili-
zation, when divorces were granted but
seldom, and wholly by the Catholic Church.
When such a decree was granted to a wo-
man, the Papal rescript stated, "Viduea de
gratia," which interpreted is "widow of
grace." In the law of the French it would
read, "Veuve de grace," or "grace widow,"
"veuve" being translated as "widow." — Ex.


AFTER our subtlest analysis of the men-
tal process, we must still say our highest
thoughts and our best deeds are given to us.
And do we not through this acknowledge
rapid thought and noble impulses to be in-
spiration?


