	REMEMBERED HAPPINESS.

[Column 1]
	One of the English poets says "a thing of
beauty is a joy forever," but I propose to
give another version to that aphorism and
say: Happiness once given, is a "joy for-
ever." How much the happiness of past
days adds to the felicity of the present! A
happy childhood, spent beneath the eye of
parents who were wisely indulgent, diffuses
over the whole life a feeling of calm pleas-
ure and satisfaction, and even in age, is still
a "joy forever." No happiness is confined
to the present moment, for memory renders
it immortal. If any one has added to our
happiness, by their social pleasantry, their
cheerful intelligent conversation, and their
ready attentions; the face of that friend
will rise before us unchanged, years after—
yes all our life, the recollections of that
bright epoch will be a "joy forever." We
recall an agreeable tour through a lovely
country, where we beheld splendid scenery,
and every beauty which nature and art com-
bined could throw together—we made it
with agreeable company, every spirit be-
ing one in a desire to promote the happiness

[Column 2]
of all, we lived a short time with those
spirits, enjoying every day some new and
innocent pleasure. We parted with regret,
perhaps never to meet on earth again, but
was the happiness extinct? No, our im-
pressions were indelible, and they remain a
"joy forever." If we desire to excite our
ideality, we have only to recall these sunny
days of happiness, and the sweet moonlight
of memory beguiles us to a return of the
beautiful and happy. Nothing like the sun-
dial, only the sunny hours of life! Oh!
bless them who have been kind to us in
days that are past! What a treasury is the
remembrance of them—how full of riches
hoarded up with miserly care, were we in
a dungeon its bars and bolts could not rob
us of one iota, but are with us as a "joy for-
ever."
	We recall our youthful homes with their
magical influence and associations, with the
Lares and Penates of those circles, even
our beloved parents, so wise, so good, so
aelf-sacrificing for our comfort and well-be-
ing! The contemplation of these will be a
study through time—yes, till we are reunit-
ed with them; and then again our brothers
and sisters, our friends and playmates, the
co-partners of our infantile joys and sor-
rows, and on them our memory is immor-
tal. Then came the magnates of our riper
years, those with whom our souls conversed
—with whom we took sweet counsel—whose
love to us was "passing the love of women"
though some were of that GENIUS. Those
years, with all their powerful reminiscenses
rise before us, and verily they are "a joy
forever." I have traced but a brief portion
even of the outline; and then there is the
residue, and the filling up of the picture of
happiness that pervades our pathway of life.
The remembrance lives within the pre-
cincts of our own heart and brain, and it is
unto us "a joy forever." Happiness is an
emanation of the Spirit of God, where it ex-
ists the principle of evil can have no lasting
power; it is full of the spirit of life, of love,
of generosity, of all that ennobles humanity;
it enlarges our hearts, expands the mind, in-
creases our intelligence, multiplies our use-
fulness, raises our thoughts and aspirations
to our Great Father who dwells in an at-
mosphere of happiness. Let us then culti-
vate it, and Heaven will be around and
about us; we know not how rich we are un-
til we examine the treasury which God has
bequeathed to His children. Let us help
to make others happy, and if possible teach
the art of acquiring it. The material lies
around all more or less, but we differ so
much in temperament and organism, men-
tally and physically, that each must select
for themselves out of the rich material our
Father has provided us with. Byron wrote:
"The Past is nothing." With such a mind
as he possessed, he could not have been in a
healthy mood when he wrote it.
	"The past is nothing!" Few can say
	Their star of life has left no ray,
	That o'er their retrospective view
	Casts glowing tints of pinky hue.
	I revel in the hoarded Past,
	And bless the die in which 'twas cast.
	Yes—Yes the present will reveal
	The Past is something—woe or weal,
	Is built upon the mighty past
	Which through Eternities may last
	The future is within the Veil,
	Obscure in its unfolded tale.
	But yet whate'er our God's behest,
	Let's bless Him, for we have been blest.
		Hannah T. King.
S. L. City.


FANCIES are the blossoms of facts; pur-
er and lovelier for their strong hold on truth,
just as the fairest roses are grown in the fin-
est soil.


