HYGIENIC NOTES.
	Breathing.—The "Science of Health" impress-
es upon its readers the pernicious effects of the
habit of breathing through the mouth, sleeping or
waking. The nostrils are the proper breathing ap-
paratus, not the mouth, a person may inhale pois-
onous gases through the mouth, but not the nose
without being aware of it. Drawing in and emit-
ting the breath through the mouth is also destruct-
ive to the teeth.
	The Liver.—In treating of this organ the Her-
ald of Health says that to cure derangements "a
great deal more can be done by a careful regula-
tion of the habits than by anything else, and the
first thing to be attended to is the food. It will
accomplish more than all the drugs in the world.
The things to be avoided are, very highly seasoned
dishes, hot and doughy bread and hot biscuits, such
vegetables as are not easily digested-potatoes,
cabbage and the like, alcoholic beverages, and the
use of tea and coffee to any but a very moderate
extent, excessive use of sugar and oily foods."
Good stale bread should be eaten; a little fresh lean
meat is advisable; eggs occasionally, cooked for


fifteen minutes in water at a temperature of 170°,
or put into boiling water, covered and placed away
from the fire, that the y[-]lk may be cooked and the
white left tender and flocculent; fruit used properly
is an almost certain panacea for diseases of the liv-
er.


WITH God as our God we are safe and hap-
py everywhere. A gentleman crossing a
dreary moor came upon a cottage, and enter-
ed into conversation with its inmate who
was standing by his garden gate. When
about  to leave he said:—“Are you not afraid
to live in this lonely place?" "Oh, no!" said
he, for Faith closes the door every night,
and Mercy opens it in the morning."


SIR Isaac Newton, a very wise and godly
man, was once examining a new and very
fine globe, when a gentleman came into his
study who did not believe in a God, but de-
clared the world we live in came by chance.
He was much pleased with the handsome
globe, and asked,
	"Who made it?"
	"Nobody," answered Sir Isaac; it happen-
ed here."
	The gentleman looked up in amazement
at the answer, but he soon understood what 
it meant.


THE fatigue of the limbs incident to rail-
way travel, is occasioned mainly by the
trembling motion of the floor under the
feet. Invalids will find great relief by the
use of an air cushion for a footstool.


<oivk ilbta="" call;="" priceslofeuit="" the="" tlmee.="" (<="" :="" 5="" ,.="" i9jc.........="" uj="" i;a‘jf="" ei="" ti="" wholesale.and="" retail,djaljngv="" bll="" ,="">					AT TEASDEL'S
	On and after December 1st I will sell all Raisins and 
Currants and Christmas Fruits, cleaned and prepared,
thus giving a benefit to those wishing to prepare their 
Mince Meat for Christmas.  A full Supply of Presents for 
Christmas and New [-]ear in useful and substantial items.
	Dried Apples, to the many inquiries: I will take more
good, sound Fruit,
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

