LETTERS.

[Column 1]
	BOSQUE Co. TEXAS, Dec. 14, 1875.
DEAR SISTER HORNE:
	And sisters of the Retrenchment Asso-
ciation and Relief Society, I feel there is
an apology due you my dear sisters for my
long silence; but I have been so busy visit-
ing my numerous relatives and friends,
who received me with open arms and wel-
come greetings that I could not get time to
write such a letter as I wished; giving you
a short history of my travels and the wel-
come reception I have met with among my
kindred. Can you imagine six grown broth-
ers who had not seen a sister for twenty
years gathering around me as though they
could take me by pieces from my aged
mother who had the best right, and claimed
that her house was to be my home, and I
must be the visitor of those dear brothers
who felt so blest and honored to have a
sister visit them. I have rejoiced exceed-
ingly to find that my mother and brothers
have defended the principles of the Gospel
although they have been absent from the
church for twenty years, and had no mis-
sionaries among them; yet they have not
denied the faith.
	Mother says tell the President that she
hopes he will not forsake her if she has him.
Mr. East and Greer preached last Sunday
to a very attentive congregation. After-
wards a gentleman arose and called for more
evidence that Joseph Smith was a Prophet;
so I was the fourth witness, as my brother
Thomas also testified to what Elders East
and Greer had said. I will relate a few
words of testimony which I gave them. I
said the Gospel of the Son of God is not a
fable, neither is life a romance, therefore it
is of the greatest importance that we seek
"to know of the doctrine whether it be of
God or man;" this is our privilege, I know
for myself that God has revealed Himself
from the heavens in this dispensation; the
testimony I have received, God gave me in
answer to prayer. The HOLY GHOST was
promised to the believers anciently, and it
is promised to them now if they believe
and are baptized; and I am a witness that
the signs follow the people called Latter-
Day Saints. God has made me a witness by
giving me the gift of the HOLY GHOST.
This is how I know that Joseph Smith is a
Prophet of God, and that those men who
have addressed you are sent of God com-
missioned with authority to baptize you, and
lay hands upon you, that you may receive
the HOLY GHOST; if you honestly desire to
know the truth this is your privilege. The
gentleman that called for more evidence,
said my testimony struck him, he placed
his hand on his heart and said it was pene-
trated.
	The ladies gathered around after meet-
ing to know concerning polygamy, but God
was with me, and His spirit gave me ans-
wers. I told them they need not be troubled
for if they did not repent they would not
have a husband at all; if they should die to-
morrow, that was the end of their covenant;
they would not be worthy of the marriage
relation after death should part them. If
their husbands did not embrace the gospel,
they would not be worthy of one wife in the
future state.
	The marrying for eternity seemed to re-
move the big pill that was choking them,
and they were anxious to hear more con-
cerning that eternal union of the sexes.
	God bless you my dear sisters, and God
bless His servants that build up His king-
dom is my prayer.
	W. EAST.
[Column 2]
	PARIS, BEAR LAKE CO., Jan. 9th, '76.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I don't know as I scarcely dare enter my-
self on your list of correspondents. Yet
when I read the EXPONENT and the many
interesting and instructive pieces written
by the sisters, I think sometimes, why can-
not I write something that would perhaps
be the means of improving my own mind,
if not of much interest to any one else? I
firmly believe the more persons exercise
the capacities of their minds the more fruit-
ful they will become. Every faculty of
one's nature has to be brought into con-
stant exercise, if they wish to improve the
talents which the Lord has given them.
Some have a better talent for writing and
exercising their ideas properly, than others;
but the person with the one talent is just as
much in duty bound to improve it, as the
one with ten talents, otherwise the one tal-
ent will be taken away and given to the one
that already hath ten, and improved them.
I know that the sisters in this church have
a mission to fulfill, and, although it is a
very limited sphere of usefulness some have
to work in; still if they are faithful in their
calling their influence will be felt, and their
opportunities for doing good will corres-
pondingly increase.
	There is one subject which has been treat-
ed upon in your valuable paper which has
greatly interested me, a subject which
should interest every mother in Israel,
namely that of bringing up children aright.
The responsibility is great upon mothers to
instruct and bring up their children prop-
erly, for "As the twig is bent the tree is
inclined." Mothers should set an example
before their children worthy of imitation;
for upon them in a great measure depends
the future prosperity and advancement of
the church and kingdom of God. What a
great mission for women to perform. How
few realize their duties as they should, to
thoroughly train the faculties and disposi-
tions of children, to teach them to control
their passions, and cultivate and encourage
every good and noble faculty of their na-
ture, and at the same time striving to
eradicate and root out everything that has
an evil tendency, that they may grow up
useful members of society.
	The daughters of Zion should grow up
with a proper understanding of the various
duties required of them in the different pos-
itions of life in which they may be placed,
whether as daughters, wives or mothers;
filling every sphere in a manner which shall
redound with honor to themselves and shed
a bright lustre upon the heads of their par-
ents. Sons have still more important pla-
ces to fill in the kingdom of God. To be
taught to fulfill all the duties required of
them, requires the exercise of great wisdom
and care on the part of the parents. Thrown
as it were from the immediate control of
parents, more than daughters, they are
more liable to learn bad habits, and coarse
wicked language and be led into improprie-
ties of almost every kind. Great caution
and wisdom should be used to guard them
against evil influences, to teach them to love
that which is good, and to avoid every-
thing which has an evil tendency, that when
their fathers are called away from this mor-
tal sphere, they may step forward into their
footsteps, and bear off the kingdom and as-
sist in finishing the work which their fath-
ers commenced.
	What a great and noble work is before us;
there is not a moment to lose. Every mo-
ment should be improved in learning some-
thing that is useful. In improving our
minds by reading useful books, or convers-

[Column 3]
ing with those whose knowledge is greater
than ours; picking up the little gems of
thought which are scattered about in such
rich profusion. If we really wish to be-
come useful and intelligent members of the
church and kingdom of God, seeking to
bring our minds and wills in subjection to
Him, Who rules on high; then we will be
the better prepared to extend our spheres
of usefulness.
	I fear I have already extended this commu-
nication beyond the limits of your patience,
but really the subject is so interesting, and
of so much importance to our well being,
that I scarcely know where to break off.
	Praying that your interesting paper will
continue to grow and increase in circulation
and influence until it shall become an actual
necessity in every household in Utah:
	I am as ever your sister in the Gospel,
