						MRS. C. A. ALDER
Dec. 24, 1875.
	*Sister Eliza A. Felt, died June 19th, 1875, Treasurer
of the Society.


[Column 1]
SEND HIM THE PROOF.
	Governor Emery in his message, as re-
ferred to by us yesterday, made a statement
about the young men and women born and
reared in Utah, which ought not to pass with-
out further notice. In addition to our de-
nial of the Governor's charge of their ignor-
ance, we now take occasion to say that we
could produce a great number of young
men, born and reared in Utah, who could
read the message he delivered on Tuesday
in a far better manner than the Governor's
own style of communication. And further,
that there are many young ladies, born and
reared in Utah who excel the Governor in
the art of reading, and equal him in the art
of composition.
	The gentleman may not believe this. We
should like him to be convinced. It is not
probable that he will accept our statements,
in opposition to the allegations of those who
have taken the trouble to influence him by
misrepresentations. We propose that he
shall receive convincing evidence. We rec-
ommend that a number of young men and
ladies, born and reared in Utah, write to the
Governor over their own signature, and
prove to him whether, upon entering on the
duties and obligations of life, they are "des-

[Column 2]
titute of the simplest rudiments of educa-
tion." If they will furnish copies to the
Junction, we promise to publish them, un-
less they pour in too great numbers, in
which case we will refer to them and pub-
lish the names of the writers.
	We know that there are a great many pu-
pils of the Ogden Seminary, of both sexes,
who are fully competent to give any reason-
able person ample proof that the Gover-
nor's statement is incorrect, and that he has
been wrongly informed.
	Utah has no reason to be ashamed of a
large portion of her youth, nor of their ed-
ucation. Driven from their possessions by
ruthless mobs, the early settlers of this Ter-
ritory could offer few facilities for the edu-
cation of their children. But such as were
possible, under the peculiar circumstances
which surrounded them, were extended,
and the wonder is that they did so well.
As years rolled on and conditions changed
and improved, the cause of education ob-
tained greater attention and assistance, and
during the past few years opportunities
have been placed within the reach of the
rising generation to become acquainted, not
only with the "simplest rudiments" of edu-
cation, but with the higher branches of
learning, such as are not afforded in little
country villages, of similar size and popu-
lation to ours, in older settled districts.
	The hue-and-cry that has been raised
about education in Utah, and the animad-
versions of a few brawlers who are on the
lookout for an official position to secure that
bread and butter which they will not earn
by the sweat of their brows are as unjust as
other calumnies against the old settlers of
this Territory; and we hope the Governor,
on better information, will refuse to be in-
fluenced by the reports of the people's en-
emies.—Ogden Junction.


[Column 1]
	NOTES AND NEWS.
	A NEW daily paper in Middletown Conn.,
has recently been established; a woman's
paper advocating Woman's Suffrage. It is
called the "Sentinel."
	A MASS convention was held in Denver
on the tenth of January last, by the Suffra-
gists to secure Woman's Suffrage in the new
constitution.
	A BRONZE statue of Cromwell has been
presented to the city of Manchester Eng-
land, by Mrs. Abel Heywood. It is nine
feet high and weighs more than a ton,
and rests on a block of rough hewn granite.
Cromwell is represented in the military cos-
tume of the period, and his features are
dignified and impressive. The cost of the
statue is 8,000 dollars.—Ex.
	IT IS reported that the volcano of Vesu-
vius gives signs of an approaching eruption.
The large crater which has been formed
since the last disturbance emits a black
smoke, which has invariably been a symp
tom of volcanic activity, although it is im-
possible to tell what time may elapse before
the actual eruption takes place. Similar
appearances were noticed in Dec. 1851, but
real action did not commence until May,
1855.

[Column 2]
	ONE OF the literary memorials of the
Centennial cannot well fail to prove highly
interesting, viz. a "History of the United
States," now being pushed to completion by
William Cullen Bryant, the poet-journalist,
and Sidney Howard Gay, for many years
managing editor of the New York Tribune.
This history gives a large space to the pre-
historic races of Amerca, the mound-build-
ers, and those of the Old World, people
who came to America before Columbus.
Mechanically, the work is an extensieve en-
terprise in book-making. It will be com-
pleted in four octavo volumes of 600 pages
each, and the first cost of the work will
reach $100,000.
	THE MARRIED Women's Property Com-
mittee in England consists of twenty-five
members; among them are Sir Charles W.
Dilke, Bart., M. P.; Mr. and Mrs. Jacob
Bright; Miss Frances Power Cobbe; Mrs.
Wolstenholme Elmy; Miss Josephine E.
Butler, well known to the world. This
committee have issued a circular, which il-
lustrates something of women's work in
Great Britain. This circular is not political
and yet is equally important, and insepara-
ble from the Suffrage Movement itself.
The object is an amendment of the Woman's
Property Bill, to secure as a married wo-
man her own property, and to make her
liable for her own contracts as if she were
a single woman." It is anticipated the
amendment of this bill will be introduced
at the beginning of the next session of
Parliament by the Right Hon. Russell Gur-
ney, M. P. if he is in England then, if not
by G. J. Shon Lefovre Esq., M. P. In 18-
70, The Married Woman's Property Bill that
was passed, although a very defective aud
and inconsitent one, and differing widely
from the bill which they had endeavored to
promote, yet conferred an immense boon
upon women of the working classes. They
insist that the consequence of that bill was
that a similar measure was passed by the
Legislature in Victoria (Australia) and also
in Ontario, (Canada) and also caused an
amendment of the law which had been ac-
cepted by the Swedish Legislature. There
is no doubt that all these movements carry
an influence and that those who work for
the elevation of woman and the recognition
of her rights in any country, are also work-
ing for all.


THERE IS much of our early gladness that
vanishes utterly from our memory; we can
never recall the joy with which we laid our
head on our mother's bosom, or rode on
our father's back in childhood, doubtless
that joy is wrought up into our nature, as
the sunlight of long past mornings is
wrought up in the soft mellowness of ripe
fruits, but it is gone forever from our imag-
ination, and we can only believe in the joy
of childhood. But the first glad moment
in our first love is a vision which returns
to us to the last, and brings with it a thrill
of feeling intense and special as the recur-
rent sensation of a sweet odor breathed in a
far-off hour of happiness. It is a memory
that gives a more exquisite touch to tender-
ness, that feeds the madness of jealousy,
and adds the last keenness to the agony of
despair.


