[Vol9 | September 1922 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Exercises]

exercises in a burst of brilliancy, after which all, perhaps a little weary, but nevertheless gratified and happy, returned to the city. That some of them were over-tired after so much exertion would have seemed inevitable; yet there was nothing of the kind confessed or visible. The fact is that no matter what their age, all seemed as bright and happy as at the beginning. One of the guest committee asked a veteran nearly ninety years old if she might help him to the car, and his brisk reply was, "T don't know as I need your help, but I don't mind your company." In this connection it should be noted that Dr. S. H. Allen and Dr. Jane S. Skolfield volunteered their services in case of need during the entire jubilee, and were assiduous in their attendance; also that a corps of trained nurses was all the time in attendance and would have been available at a moment's notice. To make further enumeration of the scores of willing workers who as chairmen or members of committees, or as performers, participants, or contributors in the various features of the entertainment provided, would extend this article much beyond its allotted length. But their labors were none the less valuable and appreciated, and their reward will be found in the consciousness of duty well done. One cannot omit mention, however, of the constant, active and benevolent part taken in all the exercises by Presi-  dent Heber J. Grant. His friendly greetings and his social mingling with the aged guests gave them great pleasure and elicited their sincerest appreciation. As time goes on, and as each year marks the rapid passing of more and more of these veterans whom we hold in such honor and affection, how desirable it is to remember and perpetuate, in song and pageant and story, the scenes they saw and the deeds they did! Surely it is worth while thus to mark on the minds of the present generation 'he nobility of purpose and the strength of character of their ancestors; to help them to sense more keenly the debt they owe, and in some degree to show apprec'ation and gratitude for the blessings of today. Such occasions as above described are not only affecting, they are also interesting and inspiring. Let the young people pause in the hurry of lite's broad way and think of those who in faith and earnestness and toil conquered the desert and made possible the wonders and pleasures of the present; honor the gray hairs and faltering steps of those who in the glory of their youth wasted not their time in vain pleasures but toiled and suffered and endured, and with it all were happy, because in their inmost soul there was the love of God and the knowledge of his goodness! Their names? Go view them on the Golden Page, The gift of glory to remotest age; The van of civilization's westward sweep, The few that sowed, what millions yet shall reap. F. W. AMBITION Ambition, when wedded to tireless energy is a great thing and good thing, but in itself it amounts to little. Man cannot raise himself to higher things by what he would like to accomplish, but only by what he endeavors to accomplish. To be of value, ambition must ever be made manifest in zeal, in determination, in energy consecrated to an ideal. If it be thus reinforced, thus combined, the thin airy castle melts into nothingness, and the ind 'vidual stands on a new strong foundation of solid rock, whereon, day by day and stone by stone, he can rear a mighty material structure of life-work to last through time and eternity. The aircastle ever represents the work of an architect without a builder; it means plans never put into execution. They tell us that man is the architect of his own fortunes. But if he be merely architect he will make only an air-castle of his life; he should be architect and builder too. Relief Society Nurse School Commencement Exercises The Commencement exercises of the Relief Society Nurses' Aid Class were held Thursday, July 20, 1922, at Relief Society Headquarters, in the Bishop's Building. The rooms were tastefully decorated for the occasion with palms and fragrant garden flowers which furnished a delightful setting for the class members, who were charming and neat in their blue and white striped dresses and white aprons. President Clarissa S. Williams presided and presented the certificates to the members of the class. The program in detail was as follows: Musical selection..........0.00 cece eeeeeOur mountain home so dear Opening prayer............... 00002 eeDr. Margaret C. Roberts Report 1... 0... Eee ee cece tect e eet eectsMiss Josephine Eagar AddreSS....-. Ccc cece eee cece eeeeAsst, Supt. James N. Lambert Solo (selected).......... 0.0.02. Cce eeeMrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward "What the Course of Training Means to Us".. Mrs, Lillian Overson Address........ Cece cece ect e cee eenaaeeBishop David A. Smith Address.... 00... Cece eee cee eect eee eeeeteeeDr. Geo. W. Middleton Awarding of certificates to graduates.. President Clarissa S. Williams Benediction....... Cee cece eee cece eee eee eesBishop David Lyon In her report of the year's work, Miss Josephine Eagar, who has been in charge of the class said: "The one-year hospital training course for Nurses'. Aid is practically a new idea here in the west, this class being the second one to graduate from the L. D. S. Hospital. We have met with considerable opposition from' some people in the medical profession as well as a few of the laity, but we are happy to report that conditions in this respect are greatly improved. I am very pleased to be able to report that these girls have been very generous in their efforts to overcome these difficulties, although it has been trying' at times. "Beginning August 15, 1921, there were six girls remaining from last year's class, having time to make up on account of sickness, and they did not finish until December 1, 1921. Ten new students entered at his time, making sixteen in all. Out of those ten, only five remained to graduate tonight, some of them, having been physically unfit and others being unable to adapt themselves to the work. The January class, beginning January 3, 1922, consisted of nine girls. Up to date we have seven out of those nine remaining, two having been released on account of inability to adapt themselves to the work. Our class tonight numbers twelve. RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE AIDS GRADUATING  "The Relief Society girls are under the same regulations as the girls in the regular Training School. We are working the eight hour schedule, leaving us eigh hours for study, class periods and recreation, and eight hours for sleep. "Following are the subjects which we have had in our curriculum this past year, and which will stand good with possibly one or two exceptions this coming school year: Practical nursing, anatomy and physiology, obstetrics, ethics, hygiene and sanitation, surgical and medical nursing, contagion, first aid and emergency work, pediatrics, hydrotherapy and massage. "In addition to their regular work, arrangement is made so that the girls are privileged to attend the religious services on Sunday, and the Mutual Improvement meetings during the class season. "We do not send these aids out with the understanding that they are full-fledged hospital graduate nurses. They are to be known as Nurses' Aids or Relief Society Nurses, and are to act under the direct supervision of a competent physician or surgeon. We do feel, however, that one year of actual practice in the hospital, together with the theory and practical demonstration which we have been able to give them, is a great improvement over the former nine months theoretical training. "Owing to our limited quarters we are able to accommodate only eighteen to twenty students. At present we have accepted ten young ladies for the class which will begin August 1, and 'in January we shall be ready for ten more. "The members of this class have been conscientious in their work. They have given, I believe, full measure of service and in return have made themselves worthy and strong for the duties before them. I feel that much will be accomplished by them, especially since they are all from remote parts of this, as well as other states where there are few doctors and not many hospital graduate nurses. I can see them in the years to come ministering and giving solace and comfort to the suffering, and making glad those who are burdened. "In our Hospital Home we have been happy. The girls have been dutiful, courteous, and helpful. We have had great joy and satisfaction in our association together, and my prayers and wishes are for their success." Assistant Superintendent Lambert, of the L. D. S. Hospital, expressed pleasure and appreciation in addressing those assembled. In behalf of the hospital he extended congratulations and hearty good wishes to the members of the class whom he characterized as faithful, genteel, courteous, and hard-working women, willing to give the best service at their command. Superintendent Lambert felt that the various communities, some of which are remote,  will be most fortunate in receiving these practical helpers and will be greatly benefited by their ministrations among the people. ' Mrs, Lillian Overson, representing the class, referred briefly to the early history of the health movement in the Church, beginning with Brigham Young's remarks in Winter Quarters when he said, "I intend to propose to the council of this Church to have some way devised to instruct this people concerning the organization of the human system, and how to care for it." Soon after the Saints entered the Salt Lake Valley, in 1847, President Brigham Young called Dr. Willard Richards to establish a council of health. Dr. Richards' wife, Susannah Liptrot, an English nurse, assisted her husband in giving lectures to the women of the council on obstetrics, nursing, and child care. This was one of the first organizations in America that instructed the mothers in the ways of sanitation and health, and the leading women of the Church took an active interest in the classes. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells attended with a 'babe in her arms. Following this early work, the Church has always fostered movements in the interest of health and the Relief Society Nurses' Class is an outgrowth of this early work. Mrs. Overson said in part: ? "The main thing in our course of study is what we learn of the human body, God's most wonderful creation, and its care in health and in sickness. It is so complex an organism, and there is so much to learn of its functions and the care and at4 tention it needs in health as well as when it becomes invaded with disease and infection, that one could not possibly master so great a subject in one year, or even in manly years of study. But a: least, our course has been very interesting and instructive, teaching us how to care properly for the sick, how to prevent diseases and ill health, and has given us a very good foundation upon which we may build as the years go by. In time to come we may become of great service to humanity, which I think was the intention of the originators of this class. Our study of anatomy, or the structure of the human body, alone has been well worth every minute of our time and it has been our privilege to attend a great number of lectures from some of the best physicians, surgeons and specialists upon the various diseases and ailments of the human body. These lectures have brought to our attention many methods and theories of modern medicine and science. "The practical training of our hands to the little things that will give comfort to those who are suffering, and give it according to the laws of asepsis, is of untold value to us. Another most important feauture of our work is the training of our hearts to give the love and sympathy and encouragement to the sick and  helpless, and to subject ourselves to a discipline that teaches us to conform our habits to regular hours of eating, sleeping and exercise, thereby increasing our vitality, endurance, and self-control, which is a big factor in the making of successful nurses. ~ "Tn conclusion, we will say that as a class we appreciate the privileges we have had and the kindness and consideration that have been shown us by the doctors, the superintendent and her assistant and supervisors, and by the girls in the general training school, for our association with them has been a pleasure indeed. We are grateful for the efforts of Miss Eagar who has been a real helper and friend to us, never sparing herself one thought or effort in our behalf, but always ready and willing to help and encourage and show us the better way. We are also grateful for the interest the General Board of the Relief Society has taken in us and for the course they have planned for our benefit." Bishop David A. Smith said that very early in his life he came to understand and appreciate the necessity of giving proper and timely care to the sick. As a small boy of nine he was aroused many times in the dead hours of the night to accompany his mother, Mrs. Julina L. Smith, on her errands of mercy to the sick. He was impressed even then, at this early age, with the importance and value of conserving human life and the necessity of proper care in time of illness. Bishop Smith has watched the nursing work in the Church grow, and his interest has not only been *maintained but has gradually grown until today he feels, more than ever before, that one of the fundamental duties of any community is the maintenance of health. This he said requires intelligent preventive measures, and in case of illness, medical help and nursing, and hospital service. Many difficulties have been encountered in establishing our L. D. S. Hospitals, but it is his hope that we will all work to the end of providing for sufficient hospital care and nursing service for the entire Church. As managing trustee of the L. D. S. Hospital, Bishop Smith, is pleased to receive the Relief Society Nurses in the hospital for one year's training. There has been, and is, some opposition on the part of some of the doctors to this one-year course, the plea being that such procedure establishes a low standard in nursing and interferes with the three-years' course. Bishop Smith, feels that the Nurses' Aids are not in any sense competing with the regular nurses. When they are through they do not pose as graduates but as aids in nursing. He thinks there is a place for them in every community. Previous to the entrance of the Relief Society students in the hospital the work of the Relief Society Nurse Course was largely theoretical, but through the courtesy of the  hospital the aids are now prepared not only in theory but in practice. Bishop Smith advised the members of the class to be kind and tender in dealing with the sick and to cultivate a love for all of God's children whether rich or poor. He quoted words from Paul regarding the importance of faith and urged the class to have faith in their work, faith for those for whom they serve, and above all faith in their God. Dr. George W. Middleton said that one of the great needs today is the establishing of a nursing service within the reach of all. The rich may have the luxury of fully trained doctors and nurses, the poor can obtain certain service free of cost; but the great class between, which is struggling on a low living wage; trying ot maintain itsself independently and to rear families, is about ready to despair of reaching the desired goal. High professional standards in nursing are very desirable, but at the same time the question of the greatest good to the greatest number should not be lost sight of, nor should tthe vital problem of bearing and rearing children, which is really fundamental to the 'race, be ignored. The L. D. S. Church stands for the establishment and rearing: of families and with its splendid organization, which is so comprehensive, it seems easily possible to arrange for the benificence of surgery and nursing service for all its members. Dr. Middleton called attention to the wonderful opportunity of service which nursing offers. He said that the glory of life is in rendering service to our fellows, and that the work should be sympathetic and guided by a love for humanity. He pointed out how Silas Marner, the pessimist and outcast, was transformed by a little child who came to him and to whom he gave the highest service at his command. President Clarissa S. Williams, representing the General Board of Relief Societies, greeted the members of the class and congratulated them upon their accomplishments during the year. She said that the Relief Society Nurse Class has always been a source of pride to her from the moment of the organization of the first class, under Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, up to the present time. She expressed appreciation to the General Authorities of the Church and to the hospital authorities for the consideration shown the General Board in permitting the Relief Society Class to enter the hospital for training. This training, she declared, has many advantages over the former courses offered by the school, which were necessarily largely theoretical. She explained further that eleven months of the present one-year course are spent in the hospital and the twelfth month is to be given in charity nursing in the home communities of the members of the class.  Before leaving for their homes each member will sign a contract which will be forwarded to her ward president indicating the charity service. At the close of her remarks, President Williams awarded certificates to the members of the class whose names and addresses are as follows: Overson, Mrs. Lillian...............04. Basalt, Idaho Ottley, Miss Celecta M.................4. Elba, Idaho Morrey, Miss Alice................008-Joseph, Utah Zauge, Miss Bertha Emily......... LaGrande, Oregon Woolley, Miss Celia........... 00.00 eeeParis, Idaho Barnes, Miss Jane...........-.2000005Downey, Idaho Evans, Miss Hortense.................+Arbon, Idaho Thacker, Miss Isabelle.............. Charleston, Utah Christensen, Miss Ferril M........ Mt. Pleasant, Utah Allred, Mrs. Martha................ Blackfoot, Idaho Abplanalp, Miss Doris Margaret......... Vernal, Utah Gunnell, Miss Emma Bailey.......... Wellsville, Utah