[Vol9 | September 1922 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON IV - Social Service - THE PROBLEM OF DISCIPLINE IN EA]

500 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in November) THE PROBLEM OF DISCIPLINE IN EARLY ADOLESCENCE Many parents find it difficult to discipline properly the youth between the ages from twelve to seventeen. The authoritative method which seemed to be quite effective'in the early stages of the child's life does not work so well when the boy or girl reaches the teens. Along with bashfulness and self-conscious feelings, develop two significant tendencies: (1) the desire to break away from the control of parents, and to think and act independently; (2) the tendency to form group affiliat'ons outside the home circle. These tendencies come into being in response to two. Fundamental demands, individual responsibility and cooperative power. These two tendencies are of sufficient importance to justify special consideration. The Independence of Youth; Notwithstanding his timidity, the individual is, at this stage of life, most assertive and independent. This is the time the boy asks for reasons. And if father's and mother's reasons are not to his liking, he is quite ready to substitute his own plans and methods. It is very difficult for some parents to see why the boy or girl of sixteen or seventeen should be so different from the child of eleven or twelve. Why should the adolscent boy question his father's judgment? Why should he not be as obedient now as he has always been? Surely the judgment and advice of father is as good now as it was when the child was younger. It is not that the parents have grown less intell: gent and less deserving of obedience. It is not that the child jhas become very much wiser or less in need of intelligent direction. It is simply a tendency of human nature which now asserts itself in a strong form. Youth is passing from childhood to adulthood, from a life of dependence to a life of independence and responsibility. He will soon be deprived of the parental direction and will have to think and act on his own responsibility. It is well that this desire for independence, this inclination to think for himself, to form his own judgmen s of right and wrong, should express itself, and at a time when the guide to conduct does not depend entirely upon the boy himself. Certain business, social and religious responsibilities should be assumed while the parent is near by to help in case a false step is taken. The boy should have some opportunity to earn money, and some freedom in spending it, before assuming the responsibility  of carrying his own weight in the world, and especially before he assumes the responsibility of supporting a family. It is better that he makes mistakes in small business deals and spends small amounts of money while father and mother are w: th him to prevent extreme westeful adventure, than to sustain heavy losses when he is thrown entirely on his own responsibilty. Every young person is sure to make some mistakes when he plunges into the world of business and social responsibility. These mistakes, however, can be reduced to a minimum if responsibilities are assumed gradually and under the eye of those who are most deeply concerned with his welfare. Parental Control Carried to Extreme Sensible direction of youth during this period requires that we guard against two extremes. On the one hand, no young person should be made to feel that he must do nothing on his own resronsibility. Father and mother must occasionally step into tre background and observe what their sons and daughters are willing and capable of doing without parental supervision. The best test of the influence of parents over their children is to find out what will be the latter's conduct when they are left to themselves. Independence Carried to Extreme On the other hand, the independence of youth must not be permitted to go too far. The child that does not learn to give proper value to the advice of older and more experienced people will be deprived of a principle which is the very essence of progress in our present civilization. There has never been a period in the world's history when men so depend upon the judgment of other people for yuidance as at the present time. We use the expert in all lines of human endeavor. Proper training of the young adolescent 's to teach him when to use his own judgment and when to use that of others. The Gang Spirit of Youth The instinct of gregariousness asserts itself very strongly in early adolescence. This is the time when the boy is most happy, when he is with his gang. This is the time, too, when the boy seems to be more 'nterested in what the gang and its leaders think, say, and do, than in the opinion of the members of his own family. Very frequently the otherwise good boy will be led by his crowd to do things that he would never think of doing when alone and on his own account. Boys who do not smoke may be led to smoke by the crowd. Drinking, gambling, and even stealing, have been indulged in by othcrwise good boys while under the influence of the crowd spirit.  Group Control What can be done by the home to protect the boy and the girl at this period from evil habits that develop through the influence of the group? It is certain that this is the time when parents of the community must cooperate in the direction of the lives of youth. Parents frequently feel themselves helpless in directing the conduct of their own boys, if the parents of the other boys of the gang are totally indifferent. Parents need to counsel together frequently and discuss the problems of youth. The Relief Society organizat'on as well as the parents' class afford opportunity for bringing about cooperation among parents. The best way to protect youth from immoral habits is to provide for them opportunities for wholesome enjoyment. The community that encourages dancing, baseball, skating, hiking, and all sorts of group activities under proper supervision is most likely to be protected from vices common to youth. QUESTIONS 1. Give some common examples showing (a) the independence of early adolescence, (b) the gang spirit. 2. How should a parent treat a boy who believes that he knows more about a subject than does the parent himself? 3. Should a boy of 15 years of age be permitted to spend his own money as he pleases? 4. What method should parents employ in directing the life of the child at the time when he seems wholly absorbed in the ideals and interest of his gang or group? 5. What reasons can you give for encouraging independent thought in early adolescence. 6. What is the moral value of wholesome sports among boys; such as baseball, football, etc.? What sort of recreation should be encouraged among the girls at this stage? 8. Why should courtship not be carried on at this period? 9, What are the benefits which result from parents participating in the games and amusements of young people? TEACHER'S TOPIC (November) GRATITUDE AND SERVICE The Pilgrim fathers gave thanks to God for the simplest means of existence. Theirs was the simple life and thanksgiving day was established as a day of prayer and thanksgiving to God, not as a day cof feasting and sporting. A return to more simple standards: of living and humble religious spirit will make more easy a realization of the Aposle James' description of religion: "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father, is this; To visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction and keep himself unspotted from the world." Jame 1; Pearl 'i mi Me 4 ~: a Pann lor