[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | September | Issue: 4 | Title: Autobiography of Sarah B. Layton | Author: Unknown]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON. 
(Concluded.)

	I never forget the night before he died. I 
went into h[-]s room before I retired to wish
him good night. His very look pierced my 
heart, and before I had time to speak he 
said, "O, my girl, you will meet me on 
the other side, wont you?" I answered
"I guess so," and turned and left the room 
quietly. I never bade him good night 
again. The next day he was under the in-
fluence of drugs all day, for the pain was 
too great for him and he passed away. 
	I sometimes think that if I had my life 
to live over again, I would try to overcome 
myself even more than I did, but I do not 
know. I am very thankful, however, that 
he did come home, through the blessing of
the Lord, to lay his body down with his 
family who preceded him. 
	When we went to have our endowments 
in 1856, Brother Kimball was talking to 
those who were going through, and he 
spoke at length on confidence. He en-
treated the brethren and sisters, husbands
and wives never to allow themselves to 
lose confidence in each other. He said, 
"I will promise you if you do, it will 
never be restored in this world, and I am 
afraid the eternity cannot restore it."
	It is that lack of confidence that has
caused me all the sorrow that I have passed
through. It is too late for me to try to 
right the wrong, but I do pray that sad ex-
perience may do some good to my poster-
ity o[-] any who chance to read these few
lines, for they are true. I trust that I 
have passed through enough sorrow to 
atone for all my stubbornness. I know 
that my Heavenly Father is merciful to 
His children and I am willing to abide the 
consequences, for He has always been 
mindful of me and kept me from many 
snares that I might otherwise have fallen 
into. He has never left me without a 
testimony of the truthfulness of the Gos-
pel, and also a knowledge that the princi-
ple of plural marriage is true, and that it is 
exalting in its nature to all those who will
obey it and walk in the way the Lord has 
marked out. With all I have passed
through I have never regretted that I re-
ceived it in my young days. I know that 
if we are true and faithful that principle 
will lead us on to exaltation and give us 
eternal lives in the kingdom of God. It is 
worth all the sacrifice any of us can make
in this life. I have often proved the truth
of those beautiful lines composed by John
Wesley:
"When through fiery trials thy pathway shall 
	lie,
My grace all sufficient shall be thy supply, 
The flames shall not hurt thee, I only design.
Thy dross to consume and thy gold to refine. 

Even down to old age all my people shall prove, 
My sovereign, eternal, unchangable love;
And then when gray hairs shall their temples
	adorn,
Like lambs they shall still in my bosom be borne.

The soul that on Jesus has leaned for repose, 
He will not, He cannot desert to his foes,
That soul, though all hell shall endeavor to shake, 
He'll never, no never, no never forsake." 

	I have learned in my experience to trust
in the Lord, and have always found Him


to be my friend. David says they that
trust in the Lord shall never be confounded.
I have been a member of this Church for
fifty-seven years, and have seen the rise
and fall of many promising men and
women. And when trouble came upon
leaders of the Church and persecution
spread among the Saints and many whom
we might think were strong in the faith
would begin to discover that something
was wrong with the leaders of the Church,
and they, like one of old, would put out the
hand to steady the ark and would think
that they knew more about matters than
the men who were inspired of the Lord to
lead the people. They would find fault
and sit in judgment over the faults of some
of their best friends, until they would lose
the spirit of the Lord and go into darkness,
and many to their death with no light, no
hope of eternal life, because they loved a
lie better than they did the truth. There
is no real happiness in this life only by
doing our duty and living according to the
revealed word of the Lord We need not
be deceived by any false teaching if we do
our duty, attend to our prayers and shun
evil. God and Satan will never be friends.
If we want our Heavenly Father to bless
us we must keep His commandments. Oh,
how pleased He would be if we lived so as to
say with him of old. “I know that my
Redeemer liveth.” But that is our privil-
ege, the privilege of every one who enters
the waters of baptism; for when they do
that they take upon themselves a great re-
sponsibility. There is a great deal im-
plied in saying we are members of the
Church and kingdom of God. We should
live so that we would be worthy of the
title of Saint, and not have it said of us,
that we are Saints only in name.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


