[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | September | Issue: 4 | Title: NOTES AND NEWS. | Author: Unknown]

NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Colby, Miss Muller and Mrs Maril-
la M. Ricker, the latter the well known
attorney of New Hampshire, are spending
the summer in California.
	After the great suffrage meeting in Buf-
falo, September 9 and 10, there will be a
conference September 11 and 12, and on
September 13 Mrs. Sewall and Mrs. Fannie
Humphreys Gaffney are planning a large 
meeting in the interest of the Woman’s 
Council.
	Mrs. Craigie (John Oliver Hobbs) has 
just been elected a member of the Council
of the Authors’ Society. She is the fifth
woman thus honored, the others being the
late Charlotte Yonge, Mrs. Humphrey 
Ward, Flora Shaw and the late Eleanor A.
Ormerod.
	Senorita Ysabel Maria De Los Rios, is
the first woman postmaster in Cuba. She
now holds a commission to handle the 
mail at Gibra. She received a salary of
$1,200 as clerk in the office She displayed
such executive ability that her appointment
to take charge of it meets with the fullest
approval of the department and patrons of
the office.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall opened head-
quarters and presided at a meeting of
women at the Women’s Administration
Building at the Pan-American Exposition
on August 7, and during the rest of the
month will hold weekly conferences there,
the immediate object of which is to explain
the work of the International Council to the
representatives of countries of South and
Central America who visit the Buffalo Ex-
position, and to interest them to form
National Councils, in their respective coun-
tries, and ultimately affiliate with the inter-
national organization.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
c[-]unt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
