[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | September | Issue: 4 | Title: A Woman Missionary | Author: Unknown]

A WOMAN MISSIONARY. 
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
			(Continued.)
	There is a grandeur in the sound of the
sea which seems to soothe the soul when
some one would intrude. It bears witness
of the Creator’s works.
	Last night the sick woman died. She
was laid out on clean grass, a white spread
thrown over her. Her face was not covered.
Some one sat with a large leaf to keep off
the flies. The coffin was made of a canoe
of tamana wood, (island mahogany) in
which she was laid after being wrapt thick-
ly in native cloth. A thick plank was
nailed on for a cover, outside the coffin
unnumbered thicknesses of cloth were
wound, native and European. The coffin
being of the most imperishable wood wrapt
in such a quantity of cloth, will not, in my
opinion, decay in fifty years. A great
feast was made by the relatives from which
all the people in the village received a
portion. The corpse was carried away on 
men’s shoulders without ceremony.
	Last evening we spent two hours in
gazing at the moon, expressing our sur-
prise at her singular appearance One 
part was red like blood emitting no light
at all, though nearly at the full. Brother
Alexander being a superstitious man pro-
nounced it a forerunner of evil. Told the
people with whom we were stopping it
was an omen of something strange to take
place. So long had we been away from
the world, and not having seen an alman-
ac in two years, we had forgotten there
was ever such a thing as an eclipse.
When it rushed upon our minds we were 
ashamed that we had not known it at first. 
We then explained all to the ignorant peo-
ple and their fears were removed.
	This morning I rose before the day
dawned and went to walk upon the beach.
The moon was shining with the most re-
splendent brightness. There was the very
stillness of death around me. All the
dwellings were fast locked in slumber, the 
tide had just receded far on the reef,
scarcely a breeze to be felt. The atmos-


[Column 1]
phere was calm as the sweet breath of
autumn but, oh, so solemn I gazed over 
the mighty ocean towards that land so far
away, and I seemed to feel that I had died
and gone to an unknown world.
	I at first thought I would raise my voice
in song, a morning hymn; but it seemed an
intrusion, on the sacredness of the hour to
make the least noise. I felt that secret
prayer was more congenial to the deathlike
stillness of that little world in the midst of
the mighty ocean. I revolved in my mind
the self-denial of my whole life, and said,
“If my Heavenly Father is pleased with
the little good I have done, all my sorrows
will be forgotten.”
	The 9th day. Last evening we moved
into the house Brother Alexander has been
several days preparing for us. It is a large
house all in one room, built in ancient
style, round ends. Three pillars in the
centre are covered with carved work curi-
ously wrought. The house is whitened
with coral lime inside and out, long grass
laid for a floor on which mats are spread.
Five high post bedsteads curtained around
with fine white tapa. A very long table
made from a tree which floated here from
some island, the leaf more than three feet
wide without a seam.
	The building is almost entirely shaded
with trees, large and covered with flowers,
their fragrance is delightful. Five rods
from the door the grand o’d tide rolls out
and in. A lover of nature could not help
admiring this situation. Nothing but the
want of society is felt here. The good peo-
ple sent us in food to last us a week, cooked
ready for use and nicely tied up in leaves.
	This morning I took a long walk to see
an old hollow tree which is reported to
have been in the “taueteni” the abode of a
man who was pursued by his enemies, a
whole year, and was fed by a sister. Nine
of us entered the tree together, had room
to move about. Two branches of equal
size supported by the middle are hollow,
and there are openings from one to the
other, so the man could change his position
when wearied with his confinement.
	From the tree we were conducted by
Alexander to one of the old “morai’s”
places of worship in the “taueteni.” It
consists of huge stones set up in the form
of a square room. One very high above the
rest they worshiped as God. Flat stones
are laid upon the ground, under which the
heads of their enemies are buried, sacrificed
to their gods A dense growth of cocoa
nuts overshadowed the place. We rested
beneath the cooling shade, drank freely of
the water and pursued our journey. Called
at a native house where everything was
neat and clean. A young woman was
seated on a mat with a babe in her arms.
We conversed with her in the Tahitian
tongue and she treated us to beauiful pine
apples.
	From thence we started on our way
home.  Not far had we gone when a mes-
senger met us with the joyful intelligence
that the Ravai was in port and “Paraita”
was on board.
	The two eldest daughters were far in the
rear. The messenger passed us and car-
ried the news to them. Quick and hasty
were their footsteps till they reached the
house and met their father. Now, they
exclaimed, our wishes are realized. When
the house was fitted up we felt it would
avail us nothing without company. We
were informed the vessel had encountered
three severe gales of wind since it left this

[Column 2]
port; did not make Tahiti, neither the chain
Islands, except Ana and Matea.
	The 11th day. Paraita preached three
times in the native language. The people
all appeared joyful on hearing the voice of
their missionary once more. 
			(Continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th Ward Hall, July 6, 1901,
President M. I. Horne presiding.
	Singing, “Arise, O glorious Zion.”
Prayer by Sister C. C. Cannon. Singing,
“O, say what is truth.” Minutes read and
approved.
	President Horne felt sorry we could not
hold the quarterly conference at the usual
time, but the house was undergoing repair
and could not be made ready. Felt happy
that our sister missionaries were doing so
good a work. President Lyman, who has
just returned from the British mission,
spoke of the good work the sister mission-
aries were doing there. Believed Christian
Science to be a strong delusion that is lead-
ing many away.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, who has just re-
turned from a two years’ mission in Great
Britain, felt the faith of the sisters here had
helped her in her missionary work. She
had found many good women who were
trying to find the truth, but the ministers
have a great influence over them. It is
very hard to reach them, they are so pre-
judiced against the word “Mormon,” but
some were glad to hear from the women in
Mormondom. The Lord is the one who
makes converts, it requires the mission-
aries to be faithful, prayerful, fast and thus
sow the seed. She desired the sisters to lay
their burdens at the feet of the Lord, and
after you have done your part do not mur-
mur Found the Relief Society in Ger-
many in a more prosperous condition than
elsewhere, said they were warm-hearted
and kind to the missionaries. People gen-
erally do not believe that men and women
will go into the world and preach this un-
popular doctrine without pay. Alluded to
the influence of women, how they were
branded by refusing a cup of tea or beer.
Spoke of the wicked spirit Mrs. Stenhouse’s
book brought to those who read it; also of
the evil influence Jarman people brought to
bear against us, they tell the most un-
reasonable lies. However there are a few
who will embrace the Gospel. Referred to
the bravery it takes to fight against error.
Thought she never honored her father so
much as when she thought of his departing
from his old home and following those who
had the true Gospel Felt she had re-
moved much prejudice among her father’s
family, that she had visited all the confer-
ences, and women that it was possible to
meet; that she had enjoyed her mission more
than she could express; had realized the
joy a little money brought to the mission-
aries in relieving their little wants. “Zion
is Zion” to those who make it such. The
spirit of the Gospel out in the world is one
of union and love. Exhorted all to live
righteously and love each other.
	Sister Pond spoke of the prejudice among
her relatives in the East, and of the good-
ness of the sisters to the missionaries
in the world. Told of her exper-
ience in bearing testimony to people in the
world and of their prejudices.
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson said Sis-

[Column 2]
ter Alder’s experience was very similar to
her own. The world thought the women
of Zion were down-trodden. Spoke of the
way “Mormons” are pointed at with a
finger of scorn by the people of the world,
and of the good that could be accomplished
among them; thought Lucy B Young was
doing a great deal of good in Germany,
though she is more than seventy years of
age.
	President M. I. Horne said the reason
we meet on Saturday is when Jordan
and Granite Stakes belonged to Salt Lake,
that it was a more convenient day for
women to meet here. In Granite Stake all
the branches of the Relief Society meet on
Thursdays. Would like all to pay their
dues within two weeks if possible. An-
nounced an excursion for next Tuesday to
Saltair, by the General Relief Society.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by J.
S. Woolley.
			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


