Photographing Your Children Willard Luce ILMS are back! Well, anyway, there's a roll in the store every once in awhile. But they don't stay long. Films have been scarce too long, and there are many children who have never had their pictures taken. This is especially true in the smaller towns which are unable to support a regular photographer. But films are back. There will be a better supply this summer, and more and more fond parents will be shaking the dust from their cameras to get a picture of little Johnnie or Betty. Yes, films are back, but it will be a long, long time before we can splash in the luxury of shooting a whole roll for one or two good prints. They should all be good. And now when thousands of fine pictures are published every month, our own attempts at photography should be better and more interesting than the usual snapshot. Any person, child or adult, who is forced to stand straight and stiff in front of a camera is ill at ease. It's the same feeling that comes to a child who walks onto a stage and sees forty dozen eyes staring right at him. He swallows a couple of times, and thinks maybe he ought to smile and he does. At least, he gets his lips twisted in the right direction, but his eyes aren't smiling, and his hands aren't smiling. All in all, he looks and acts about as comfortable as a cat in a dog show. Then, there is the snapshooter Page 526 who invariably stands the child in front of a tree. Most of the trunk is hidden by the child's body, and the rest seems to be growing right out of the top of his head. Now, some people don't mind that. Maybe they never studied botany and don't know trees aren't supposed to grow out of people's heads. But it isn't good photography. Which brings us to perhaps the two most important points in the photography of people backgrounds and posing. With only one exception, the accompanying photographs were taken BRUSHING UP OPERATIONS Watch your backgrounds! PHOTOGRAPHING YOUR CHILDREN 527 LIFE BEGINS ANY TIME Here are two pictures instead of one. The little girl at the left has no connection with the storytelling pose of the other two. Using the sky for the background. With proper filters and film, the sky can be made any shade from pure white to black. Even the clouds are not usually distracting, but rather give the impression of an outdoor atmosphere which is pleasing. The background of sky is certainly much better than the tree already mentioned, or a clothesline, billboard, telephone pole, and even trash pile. Some of these may seem a little far-fetched, but I have seen every one of them used, not once, but any number of times. It is well to understand here that it is sometimes better to use a poor background rather than to completely lose a picture. The photograph of the three children has an annoying background, as well as including two pictures instead of one. But to have worried about these would certainly have lost the interesting expressions on the two girls' faces. Little can be done about the background, but the two pictures can be separated in the darkroom either by enlarging or by masking. Place your hand over the smaller girl. You have left a storytelling picture of a small girl and boy holding hands, without the distraction of the first girl, who seems to have no connection whatsoever with the story. Cover the girl and the boy up, and you have the second picture. As for posing I don't know why people "freeze" when they face a camera, but they do. I "freeze," and most everyone I know does the same thing. When my son was only two years old, he would sit up and put on a smile that was as artificial as apple-blossoms at the North Pole, at the mere sight of me setting up the camera. Very few people are at ease in front of a camera. It's the photographer's job to talk them into relaxing or, better still, to give them something to do so that they can entirely forget the camera. FASHION PARADE Most children love to dress up, and all dressed up children make good camera subjects IN every picture in this series the child is doing something. There is really nothing a child likes to do better than to dress up. Girls gather up their mothers' old dresses and nigh-heeled shoes. With no more than that, they will play and parade by the hour, offering more entertainment for the bystander than a four-ring circus. Certainly there is camera material here. Even a belt is sometimes enough to make a boy feel dressed up and mature. Give him a belt, and he will swagger in a way that will make James Cagney resemble Little Lord Fauntleroy. The girl at the lamppost was given a big hat and a purse, and posed in the manner of the fashion photographers of a former day. A bigger purse would have been even better. Right here is a good point to remember study the magazines and notice how the people ate posed, both in the illustrations and in the advertisements. If you find a Power's model posed in a way to suggest an interesting pose for your own child, try it. And you don't always have to be on a level with a model. Having the camera either below or above the model is often more effective, and breaks the monotony of repetition. Most of the accompanying photos were taken from a low camera angle. PUPPY LOVE The introduction of a pet into the photograph takes the child's attention from himself and places it on the pet. PHOTOGRAPHING YOUR CHILDREN CAMERA SHY Crying is often a more interesting, and, certainly, a truer expression than a forced smile. Another effective means of relaxing the child is to pose him with a pet a boy with his dog, or a boy with his horse. The mere presence of the pet forces the child's attention away from himself to his pet; and that is usually all that is necessary. The old cliche of "look at the birdie and smile" is as outmoded as the Wright Brothers' airplane. The child needs neither to look at the birdie nor to smile. In fact, just to watch some photographer sneak up on an unsuspecting child is enough not only to make the child scream, but the mother as well. However, a child, crying, lends much human interest, and certainly offers a more natural expression than a forced smile. 529 Framing the child in a doorway, a window, or in the square of a lattice gives the child something to do and provides an effective frame. With backgrounds of this type, however, you have to be especially. Careful of the way the light strikes the model. As most of you will have box cameras, or folding cameras, with little or no variation in focusing distance, it will be difficult to get closer to your models than eight feet. 'This is not necessarily as much of a handicap as you might, at first, suppose. Most photo finishers do enlarging, and will enlarge any section of a negative you desire. 'Then, too, portrait attachments which work GIVE A MAN A HORSE Just sitting on his favorite mount gives a boy a relaxed, at-home feeling which carries over into the photograph. 530 DISTANT HORIZONS Portrait attachments help to get closer to the subject. Adding the bicycle makes this informal portrait more interesting than a straight head shot would have been. quite satisfactorily can be purchased. The same principles apply to a portrait that apply to any other picture. Merely asking the model to hold up his bicycle and look down the road, helps him to forget himself and makes for a more natural photograph. Of course, the inclusion of the handle bars or some part of the bicycle is necessary to round out the storytelling quality of the picture. And, contrary to the general belief that the sun must shine from behind the camera, the poser's features are much better modeled and more interesting if the light comes from one side and above. And remember, it isn't the camera half as much as the imagination, patience, and planning of the photographer, that determines the final product. STRANGER