Guide Lessons. LESSON I. THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY First Week in October. THE LEARNING OF THE PEOPLES OF THE BOOK OF MORMON. In the first chapter and first paragraph of the Book of Mormon, Nephi tells us that he was taught somewhat in all the learning of his father. This is a very significant comment, for other passages, coupled with the fact that Lehi appeared to have adopted the writing forms of the Egyptain language, lead us to infer that Lehi, like Moses before him, was versed in the learning of the Egyptians, those descendants of Ham and Japhet who had focused their creative genius in mental pursuits. Moreover, Moroni tells us, in ch. 9, ver. 32, 33, that the records have been engraved down to his own day in what he called reformed Egyptian. Apostle Orson Pratt's footnote adds that "1000 years made great changes in language not printed or preserved by books." We might add that even printed languages are also vitally altered in a thousand years. Let us examine for a moment just what that meant. To begin with, Egypt was the recognized seat of learning of the ancient world. It meant precisely what it meant in the days of Shakespeare for English students to leave England and go to Padua to study law, or Pisa to study medicine. In the middle ages Italy was the place of last resort for those who would obtain the learning of that period. In modern times Europe has been the world's University. From every corner of the earth students have flocked to Europe to perfect their knowledge of science, letters, music and art. Now, just what Italy was to the middle ages, and Europe has been to the modern world, Egypt was to the ancients. Fortunate indeed were these early people, of the new world, that they had not to grope about in the dark for many years, to become acquainted with many things; but they found in their great leaders much learning coupled with the inspiration of Almighty God. Their beginning was the most advanced possible, because of the learning and vast experience of Lehi, connected as it was with both worldly Egypt and devout Palestine. GUIDE LESSONS. 535 But what was of vastly greater importance than any knowledge one man could possess, was the Jewish Scripture which they had obtained and brought with them. "Heirs of the Ages," they surely were, to borrow a phrase of Tennyson's; for no greater heritage of learning can possibly come to any people than that they shall be possessors of the book of books, the Bible. The year 1911. the tercentenary celebration of the publication of the King James' translation of the Bible, was celebrated in every English-speaking nation. The ablest men of Great Britain and America vied with one another to try to impress people with the matchless value of the Bible. This book, that after all the centuries is incomparable with any other book, was possessed  that is, most of the Old Testament was  by the peoples of the Western continent. But their text was superior to ours; their history more perfect and more complete. They possessed with writings of a group of prophets and inspired men unknown to us. We seek in vain in the lids of our Bible for Zenos, Zenoch, Zeum, Ezras. That much else is also lost to us by the omission of the writings of these holy men cannot be doubted. The marvelous parable of the wild and tame olive tree, so important in its lesson, so beautiful in its literary quality, is from the book of Zenos. We feel that we can best get at the intellectual status and learning of Book of IMormon peoples by analogy. Never at any time have peoples with the blood of Israel flowing in their veins heeded the words of God that they have not become a marvel and a wonder to the nations. Take for example the astonishing achievements of the Jews, whom God is surely turning towards in these latter days. We quote from an article of Israel Zangwill, published in the Metropolitan Magazine, August, 1915. In reviewing the war record of this people let us keep two things in mind: first, that there are only thirteen million Jews in the entire world; secondly, that this is only a partial record of their first year's achievements. Air. Zangwill says: "In England the late Lord Rothschild presided over the Red Cross fund, and the Lord Chief Justice is understood to have saved the financial situation, not only in England, but for all her allies. In Germany Herr Ballin. the Jew, the creator of the mercantile marine, and now the organizer of the national food supply, stands as the Kaiser's friend; in France, General Heymann commands an army corps. Italy has joined the allies through the influence of Baron Sounino, the son of a Jew. The militanhospitals of Turkey are all under the direction of the Austrian Jew, Hecker. "The Jewish bravery astonished us all," said the vice-governor of Koono, "and indeed the heroism of the Russian Jew has 536 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. become an household word. More than 300 privates  they cannot he officers  have been accorded the order of St. George. One Jew, who brought down a German aeroplane, was awarded all four We degrees haveof used the order at once." the war as an illustration, because it is the all-absorbing topic of our times; but had we chosen to cite achievements in statesmanship, literature, music, painting", etc., the result would have been no less remarkable. Ephraim's record is equally woondcrful, when we think how numerically small he is. Consequently, reasoning" by analogy, it is perfectly logical to think of the peoples of the Book of Mormon, at such times as they were seeking to serve the Lord, as peoples of great intelligence, great talent and great achievement. Their own records, the findings of the archaeologists, and the marked talent of many Indians, found from Canada to Chili, all substantiate such conclusions. Consequently, we feel that it is no matter of supposition or conjecture, to say that these people produced great statesmen, great financiers, great captains of industry, great orators, poets, painters, in a word, that they had many great artists and great artisans. But these people suffered from tremendous limitations in trying to reveal themselves. The ancient people of the eastern world used both papyrus and parchment in their writings. All of the writings of the Nephites come to us on metal plates of gold or brass. The niechanical difficulties of engraving one's history on plates of brass and gold can hardly be estimated. The necessity for careful discrimination in material and the necessity of brevity would be an ever-present thought. Then, too, we have, in the main, only an abridgment; which means that many, many things which would throw great light on the advancement of these people has of necessity been stricken out. But all the difficulties have not been taken into consideration when we think of engraving on metal plates; the Egyptian language of hieroglyphics would be easier to engrave than the written language of modern times, yet even then it would be a long and tedious task. Yet, handicapped as they were, think what a glorious record they give us of Christ's ministry on this continent. They tell us that it is beyond the power of man to make a record of what He said, and of His manner of speech, and yet they have transmitted enough, that we know first, how terrible were the cataclysms, and secondly, how marvelous was His ministry. Elder George Reynolds, in discussing the knowledge these people had of history and geography, thinks there is evidence that the Lord revealed a great deal to them that was quite in advance of the knowledge of the world in general. In support of GUIDE LESSONS. 537 this belief he cites the following: Nephi told his brethren that they were upon an isle of the sea. "Now, says Elder Reynolds, "this knowledge they could iiot possibly have had save through the inspiration of God, for this fact was not authenticated by surveys and explorations until 1847. It was as late as 1854 that these surveys were put to the test. During that year Captain McClure sailed from the Pacific to the Atlantic Ocean through the Arctic Ocean." It is known through the Book of Abraham, that Abraham's knowledge of astronomy was far in advance of the knowledge of this time; the peoples of the BoOik of Mormon appear to have had astronomical knowledge far in advance of that of the European world. Alma, in speaking to Korihor, said, "All the planets which move in their regular form doth witness that there is a supreme Creator." Another of the Book of Mormon writers tells us. "It is the earth that moveth and not the sun." It was many centuries after the destruction of the Nephites that the peoples of Europe accepted the movement of the earth as a fact. Elder Reynolrls thinks it is not at all improbable that the Ne]')hites were acquainted with the Book of Abraham. Says he, "They undoubtedly had the writings of Joseph, the son of Jacob, as these are quoted in the Book of Mormon. The Prophet Joseph found the writings of Abraham and Joseph together with the Egyptian mummies." QUESTIONS. 1. What reference does Nephi make to his father's learning, in the first paragraph of the Book of Mormon? 2. Why is this a significant comment? 3. What written language had Lehi apparently adopted? 4. Why was it fortunate for the people of Lehi that he added the culture and learning of Egypt to that of Palestine? 5. Why is the Bible the greatest treasure of learning that any people can possess? 6. When the Lord commanded Nephi to slay Laban, that the plates containing the Scripture might be obtained, what did He say would happen to a nation that did not possess the Scriptures? (I Nephi 3:19,20; 4:13,15; Omni ver. 17). 7. In what respects was the Bible of the Nephites superior to our Hebrew Bible? 8. Reasoning by analogy, what conclusions might we come to relative to the learning of the peoples of the Book of Mormon at such times as they were serving God? 9. Give any illustrations, or cite any knowledge you may have of the talent of the American Indian. Of the Jewish people of modern times. 538 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZIXE. 10. Why is Elder Reynolds justified in the belief that God revealed to the Book of Mormon peoples matters of geography and astronomy in advaiTce of their times? 11. Cite instances in the building up of our mountain home that go to show that God has revealed to our modern prophets matters in advance of the time. LESSON II. Work and Business. Seco.vd W'eek in October. LESSON III. Genealogy. PERSONAL NAMES. (See Chapter 8, Surname Book). Words are symbols of thought. Words are bodies or tabernacles of thought and emotion. (a) Concepts or thoughts useless unless expressed in words or actions. (b) The power of S}-mbols  thought-words. Family life impracticable without personal names. (c) Sign words made by children and primitive peoples. Ca) The Lord named our first parents. (b) He taught Adam language, and Adam named beasts and birds. Ancient people chose personal names carefully and reverently. (a) Hebrews were reverent. (b) Pagans were superstitious. (c) Impressive ceremonies accompanied christening in olden days. Think how impossible it would be to tell anyone what was in our minds if we had no words with which to communicate with each other. A word is a symbol. Each of the four letters. w-o-r-d, is itself a symbol of another symbol, for words themselves are like the tabernacles of the spirit, they are the bodies which clothe our thoughts and our emotions. It would be unnecessary for us to have thoughts if we had no way of expressing them and no way to put those thoughts into action. Just imagine what we would be like if we were all speechless. We would have to use a sign language as did the ancient savages.
GUIDE LESSONS. 539 Teh power of a word is greater than we think, because the word actually partakes of the thought or action of which it is the symbol; and if the body is a necessary part of the soul, enclosing the spirit within it and making it possible for the spirit to speak and move and act, so then is the wo d the important part of the thought of which it is the tabernacle, or the body. Let your imagination dwell also a moment on the condition of a family who were born and brought up and given no names by which to call each other. They would have to motion to each other, out in orsuch call confusion each otherand "Say," anrl At chaos. "scarcely a daymancould once the be lived would find a name for the woman and the woman would choose something by which to call her children. Primitive savages, like children, make signs to each other, and this sign language is still used by ome savage races as well as used in a small degree by semi-civilized people. In the army they make signs with little flags from one point to another and from one ship to another, which they call "wig-wagging." God Himself gave Adam and Eve names, as you will find in the Pearl of Great Price. He not only did that, but He also instructed Adam to name the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air (Pearl of Great Price). Indeed we learn from this sacred book that Adam learned to write, and, of course, to read through the teaching of an angel (Ch. 6, verses 5, 6, 7, 8). We know from reading the Bible how reverently and carefully the ancient Hebrews chose names for their children. They were named reverently, because the parents realized that there is a close spiritual connection between a name and the person who bears it. And while anyone need not be unduly influenced for good or evil by his name, still the chances are that there will be an intimate reaction between the name and the person. Pagans became superstitious over naming, and fear often dominated them in their choice of personal names. People who have anv religious belief make ceremonial occasions for christening children, or bestowing upon them names. These ceremonies differed, of course, according to time, place and nationality. QUESTIONS. What is a symbol? (See dictionary.) How do Indians communicate at times? How were Adam and Eve named? Give a name incident from the Bible. What ceremony attends the naming of Latter-day Saint children? What is your personal name? And yours? And yours? 
 Let each member of the class endeavor to ascertain the meaning and origin of her personal name. Student lUbles often contain a list of Hebrew names and their meanings. Dictionaries, encyclopedias and other sources may be consulted. When impossible to ascertain the meaning of the name it may be referred to the Stake Genealogical Committee, who may send to this office the lists of any personal names, if of Anglo-Saxon origin. LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in October. CLOTHING THE FEET. One of the most essential comforts which an individual can possess, is that of proper covering for the feet. In fact one is not well dressed unless health and comfort are the concern of the wearer. Many times shoes and hose are selected with never a thought of comfort or economy. Money is expended wholly for style, fad, or color, and with never a consideration of suitability or wearing quality in the articles purchased. Someone has said that the moral advantage of family life is the suppression of a one-sided development. How well may this statement be applied in regard to the clothing budget. To discourage extravag'ant and unnecessary buying, and to purchase wisely, should be uppermost in the problems of clothing expenditures of today. Frequent reference to the family budget in regard to footwear would be the means of setting right many who blindly shop for such articles. It is difficult to find an average percentage cost to be allotted to shoes and hose, owing to the variation in the least possible minimum or number of pairs required to meet the demands for different individuals. However, in observing budg'et accounts for girls in school and office, there is sufficient proof to say that an average expenditure for footwear should not exceed one-fifth of the total amount expended for clothes. A woman earning fourteen dollars a week should not afiford more than two dollars a week for clothes, forty cents of which should go for footwear. This amount could not possibly pay for an outlay of silk hosiery and novelty shoes. It would merely cover the expense of sensible, good-wearing shoes and hose, and in addition, for the upkeep of old ones which may be repaired. The life of shoes depends greatly upon the care taken of them. Several pairs alternated in the wearing provides a chance for proper airing and less chance to lose their shape; especially GUIDE LESSONS. 541 if fit with shoe trees while not in use. Soles replenished or patched are necessary economy. Rubbers worn in wet weather prevent water from rotting the threads and separating the soles. Substantial low heels are satisfactory not only in properly balancing the body, but they do not wear off readily, hence require less repair than do fancy heels. Heels not repaired in time cause shoes to lose their shape and good appearance. Rubber heels are very satisfactory in wear and comfort. Leather may be kept flexible and impervious to dampness if occasionally rubbed with tallow, oils or vaseline and allowed to thoroughly dry before wearing. Invest in a mild polish which will not crack or rot the leather. Patent leather shoes do not wear long, and being nonporous are not comfortable in hot weather. Cheap shoes are not economical. It is best to get a standard make of shoes and buy no others unless the make is dependable. The care of stockings is also a vital feature in their service and length of life. Frequent laundering removes perspiration which rots and destroys the threads. Silk hose in contact with hot weather are weakened materially. They should be washed in a lukewarm suds of soap and water at least three times a week, if in constant use. To prevent runners starting at the top of the stocking, a machine stitching may be run around the hem with the use of a fine needle. A blunt needle in this case would cut the threads and do more injury than good. The tops of good stockings may be reinforced by using the tops of cast offs which are worth while. New feet may be used in old stockings or feet cut from old uppers, arranging the seam to come on the sides of the foot so as not to make a disagreeable ridge under the foot. Oftentimes, runners are started from the garters which can be avoided by placing a pad next to the sharp edge of the clasp. Much inquiry has been made in regard to proper supporters. The elastic above or below the knee stops circulation, hence it is very necessary to have the support come from the shoulders or hips. Straps may be made to extend from the shoulder and to cross in the front and back. Hip garters are widely accepted as there is no strain upon any particular part of the body, and they are easily made with the use of a yoke which fits the hips from which extends side and front garters. In purchasing hose it is very important to know a reliable make and to consider an economical grade, as cheap and unstable hose tend as much in depleting the purse as does the lack of immediate repairs. QUESTIONS. What important features should be kept in mind in purchasing shoes and hosiery? 
 What significance does footwear have in regard to the family budget? Upon what depends the life of shoes and hose? How do you care for shoes? For stockings? How may old hose be utilized? What is your opinion in regard to supporters? What brand of hose do you purchase? OUR SURNAME BOOK. The Surname Book will be ready for our students and friends by the 1st of September. There are 600 pages, with thirty-one chapters, and the Church surname index; with thirty-eight maps, charts and illustrations. Price, $3.00. In lots of one dozen or more, $2.75. The edition is limited, send in orders immediately; first come, first served. MUSIC BOOK. We hope to have our Music Book ready by October Conference. Price, 75 cents. Lots of one dozen, 65 cents. Send orders for both these books to Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. HOUSEKEEPERS PRIZES AT STATE FAIR. The Premium List of our coming State Fair has an innovation in the shape of an intelligent, up-to-date list of prizes for Housekeepers and Homemakers. Certainly Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe has done a brave, unheard-of piece of work. Prizes for all sorts of women's and children's clothing  not alone fancy work and embroidery  but shirt waists and children's nighties, pin cushions, knit shawls, gifts for invalids and old ladies, kitchen aprons, homemade hats, comfort kits, pajamas, darning and patching, remodeled clothing, Victory bread, one-piece dishes, meat pies, cottage cheeses, dried vegetables and fruits, with budgets for families of two or twenty on incomes or no incomes  well, surely, the women will go en masse to the Fair. Glad someone realizes housekeeping is a business and homemaking is an art. Good-bye, Fancy Work! Good-day, War Bread! The Country Needs Your Help The demands upon business executives today are the greatest ever known. They are constantly seeking bright, willing and capable workers who can handle various parts of the office routine. PREPARE FOR SERVICE Fit yourself through taking advantage of one of our courses to take one of these good positions. Throw your energy into winning the war by helping to keep business going. This appeal is especially directed to young women. Write or call and see us at once. L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City Shorthand Bookkeeping Telegraphy Burroughs Calculator Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing, 1918-19 The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing will begin its fourteenth year, Monday, September 15, 1918, Fourth Floor, Bishop's Building. Term eight months. This course consists of general instructions in nursing, emphasizing Home Care of the Sick, with practical demonstrations, seven and one-half hours per week. It includes in addition, a series of lectures and practical demonstrations in Invalid Cooking, First Aid Work, Hydrotherapy, Sterilization, and lectures on Elementary Hygiene, Public Health, Contagious Diseases, Drugs and Solutions, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases. These lecture courses, which are given successively and cover a period of five hours a week, will be given by prominent physicians, surgeons and other specialists. Each student of this course will be required to do at least twenty-five hours of field work in practical nursing during the term under the direction of the school. Tuition $25.00 cash, thirty days service charity nursing. Tuition to be paid and contracts to be signed upon registration. For further information, address Mrs.