[Vol3 | July 1916 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Who Can Help Me]

EDITORIAL Entered ai second-clas* matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.  THE GENERAL BOARD Mbs. Emuelinb B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Si;sA Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Home Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoeba Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley M-ss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SuSA Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop'a Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. III. JULY, 1916. No. 7. WHO CAN HELP ME? Not all the king's horses nor all the king's Broken men can put an egg together again. When Down, the body has broken with the over-strain of modern life, and the spirit runs out to spread itself despairingly over the ruins, life is like a broken egg, and the soul is flat and spent with the awful effort of breathing. The faculties are held in a misty suspension, the grinding pressure of the daily world-wheels press upon the brain with inconceivable torture. We are spilled out of God's hand, and neither time nor eternity possesses form or cohesion. How we long for help, for — any help human or divine. And human skill is so much nearer, so much easier to secure. We cry out for human aid God is — so long in reaching us —we say. On our bosom lies the agonized child whose The Sick fluttering breath creeps in dying gasps over Child. the twitching lips. Earth, men, hope, loves — all are as phantoms. We swing suspended in a universe whose immensity is the greater for the little body at its throbbing center. All the processes of nature cease, the demands of living creatures do not exist for us until the little gasping breath is still. — 
 The nig^ht is a g-aping^, open tomb to sick Weeping En- fancies. All the fears, the dread images, the dures Through panting terrors which hide away, when the the Night. sunshine and children are awake and about, come trooping out of their lairs and camp on the pillow and about the bedside of the lonely sufferer. Not for the world will we rouse the tired watcher by the bedside, nor disturb the sleeping husband. If it were pain, ah, then we could call and all would hear and spring to instant help. But these — — awful fears the vast troop of "what ifs" the fear of a fear — — the forecast the gloomy clutch of past sorrows or mistakes these are without form and void, and not sufficiently grave to justify our selfish longing for human help and sympathy. And — so we lie and suffer —we feel the point of every hair on our — head the quivering nerves almost snap! — Sleep sleep who — said that sleep was man's common heritage? — Not we who toss — — and pray and weep and shrivel with our fears. Hark! The baby's breath. Was there not a rasping sound to that? Down into the pit of our fears, the dear Lord Hope's Ladder, places a ladder of hope. It is there each — round is dully gold in the twilight of our suffering. We set foot there again and again, but we are too — weak too impatient to climb slowly and steadily. And so we thrust it away, and go on suffering, and agonizing. Our dark- ness is unlit, the pit is too deep, the ladder is too frail. The first step breaks so often that we bring the whole ladder tumbling about our ears while we lie crushed beneath its weight. Another weapon for oUr release the Lord The Trowel throws down to us. The trowel of faith. of Faith. — About us lie the ruins of our body like use- less bricks about a fallen building. Wemay — mend them slowly up again, if we will. It happens some rare — — times ah, what a happening is there that Jesus in His mercy seizes the trowel and with one stroke replaces the structure as it — was^clean, whole, comely. But He rarely does this He might — do so oftener if we only asked Him oftener but He has taught us how to build again the shattered body, placing brick on brick, moistening the mortar with our nightly tears, and using that strong, sure trowel of faith. Have you tried building thus a worn-out tabernacle? God is our help, now as in ages past. Not a He is Our passive help, but an ever-present, ever active Help. and constructive help. We may be sick, we may be sorry, but we need not stay so long. He is there, just behind the cloud. He and His angels are every- where. But unless you want His help, ask for it, crave it, pray for it, you will not get it. His common gifts of light and life He gives to all. But if you want a special gift, you must make a special prayer. you want help from a skilful physician, you If — must ask for it and then you pay the price. He comes to you again, and yet again. 'Tis so with God. He sends His healing angel to you once and yet again, and still again. Says the gracious mother of the Prophet in her history, speaking about one of her many healings (page 221) : "The next morning after our arrival, the family being absent, I seized the opportunity to make an effort to get far enough from home to pray without interruption. Accordingly I took a staff in each hand, and by the assistance which they afforded me, I was enabled to reach a dense thicket, which lay some distance from the house. As soon as I was sufficiently rested to speak with ease, I commenced calling upon the Lord, beseeching Him to re- store me to health, as well as my daughter Catherine. I urged every claim which is afforded us by the Scriptures, and continued praying faithfully for three hours, at the end of which time I was relieved from every kind of pain my cough left me, and I; was well." Think thoughts. healthful Say peaceful Help Yourself, words. Say over and over, in your mind, hymns or psalms. Refuse to think of your sorrow or your pain. Tell your will to obey your spirit. Don't be crushed or disheartened by constant defeat. You will not die till your time comes, nor will your loved ones, unless you open the door to death and invite him in through your allowing morbid fancies, and your constant talk and thought about your own symp- toms and fears or that of your dear ones, to weaken and destroy your citadel. You refuse to allow foul, physical air in your sick — room or bed chamber don't allow disease-breeding thoughts, emotions and whinings, to taint the spiritual atmosphere. Brace up. Be a good, spiritual sport. Grit your teeth, shut your lips, — hold your hands tight, and fight just plain fight. That's what Jacob did at Bethel, when his thigh was put out of joint. Die if you must, suffer if you have to do so, but be a soldier about it. Keep your face, your fighting face, to the foe. Not your squirm- ing, cowardly back. — The Lord loves a brave soldier so do all men. God is our help. He can heal and comfort us, if we greatly work and greatly pray.