APPLE FOR THE TEACHER to have a brother who looks after her. What is your name, and where do you live?" "My name's Jimmy Mason, and I live over by the mill in that old house without any paint. Mom says maybe when I get old enough to help out we can have a_ better house." "What about your Daddy?" "Oh, my Dad's dead. We had a better house before he died, but Mom couldn't make enough to pay so much rent, so we had to move." "Your mother works, then?" "Yes, she goes to work at night, after me and Nancy's asleep, and don't get home till nearly eightthirty in the morning. That's why I always come late to school." "Do you have any relatives or friends near?" "No, my aunt and uncle used to live here, but they moved away right after Dad died and we don't have anybody now. Mom says she don't have time to find friends and, anyway, she says our house is too shabby and nobody'd want to come there." "It isn't so much the house that counts, Jimmy, it's the people who live in it. But perhaps you'd better tun along now," she suggested kindly, "or you may not make it this time before the bell rings." "Oh, gee, yes, I almost forgot..." His words faded; he ran swiftly on and vanished from sight at the next corner. Gathering the basket of flowers in her arms, Mrs. Bently made her way across the green stretch to the house and into the living room. She arranged the basket at the foot of the mantel and sank, for a few 591 moments, into the easy chair beside her, before beginning her day's routine. As she looked about the cheery, well-furnished room, a feeling of gratitude swept over her, and she wished that all those less fortunate might enjoy the same comforts. Tom had left her a good home; with the insurance and other securities, she was amply provided for. True, Tom's death, and then the children's marrying and settling in distant towns, had left her lonely. But it was not for long. With so much to be done in the world, one could not lose herself to grief and loneliness for any length of time. "There's enough happiness in the world for everybody, and life is kind to those who search for it," she repeated to herself. SsTIMMY!" called Mrs. Bently across the fence that afternoon as she motioned the boy toward her. "Have you a few moments to spare, Jimmy?" "Yes, Ma'am, I think I have. The teacher let us out early this afternoon." He came near and paused outside the fence. Mrs. Bently unlocked the gate and pushed it ajar. "Come inside. Are you a good climber, Jimmy? I'd like to get you to help me pick my apples." The boy's face beamed as he slid through the gate. "Oh, gee! I'd like to help you pick your apples, Ma'am. I'm used to climbin' trees. I climb the big ones over by our house and Nancy watches me through the window." He straightened his shoulders proudly and shoved both hands in his pockets. (Continued on page 642)