INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN Member of General Board Inez Knight Allen Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, well-known to a host of friends in Relief Society circles, was called to the General Board. Of that organization, August 17, 1927. She is a woman of outstanding ability and personal charm, particularly gifted as a leader. She was born on a ranch near Payson and is the eldest daughter of Jesse Knight and Amanda McEwan Knight. The ranch had to adjust itself to practically all the needs of the family, consequently father and mother had to be teachers in addition to all the other. Duties exacted from parents on behalf of their children. Here Inez learned to write and spell and recite the multiplication tables. In the evening the ranch was regaled with visits from farm boys, who joining with the children of the Knight family, held good, lively spelling matches. To this, home training was added two terms spent in the Payson public schools. The Knight family now moved to Provo that the children might have better educational advantages. As a result, Inez entered the preparatory department of the Brigham Young Academy in 1889, remaining until 1896, when her course of study was completed. Her Church work began with the teaching of a Sunday School class in 1896. In 1898, this work was suddenly brought to an end by a call for a mission to England. This was somewhat startling to neighbors, as prior to this time women had been called on missions only in connection with their husbands. Mrs. Allen shares the honor with her sister-in-law, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, of being one of the first unmarried women to be called to do regular work in the mission field. While performing her mission she attended the session of the International Council of Women. While on her mission she assisted in conference work all over England and Wales, did six months work in Bristol, and eighteen months in the London district. While touring the continent she visited France, Germany, Switzerland and Holland. On her return from her mission she acted as matron of the Brigham Young University for two years, a position comparable to that of Dean of Women. At the same time she served her father as secretary, at a period when his business was daily reaching larger and larger proportions. On June 11, 1902, she married R. E. Allen, son of President Thomas L. Allen of Summit stake. Five sons have ' INEZ KINGHT ALLEN 535 been born to their union, the third while his father was serving as a missionary in the British Isles. Three of the sons - have been called on missions. Two are at the present time in the mission field, while the two younger sons are doing college work in the Brigham Young University. Mrs. Allen's Relief Society work began in the office of secretary, a position which she held from 1904 to 1905. At the same time she taught the first parents class organized in the first ward of Provo, the ward in which she has lived since her marriage. On January 10, 1906, she was called to be a counselor to Martha B. Keeler, President of the Utah Stake Relief Society. She has always valued her connection with Mrs. Keeler, for with her. She became initiated into Relief Society work, During this period Mrs. Allen acted as chairman of a committee of the Utah Stake Board, to whom was committed the work of preparing and publishing a five year outline of study, a pamphlet which was used throughout Utah stake and in a number of other stakes, by permission of the General Board. This was before the General Board published outlines of study. Utah Stake had used some outlines prior to this time, prepared by President Martha B. Keeler. Mrs. Allen's. Work was a continuation in this line. When, in 1918, Mrs. Keeler saw fit to retire as President of the Utah stake, Mrs. Allen was appointed president, a position which she held from February, 1918, to January, 1924. Her term of office was a very progressive term. The method of doing charity work was in a sense revolutionized. A trained social worker was engaged and installed in the office and a community welfare system taking into account modern scientific methods of doing welfare work, was inaugurated. The progress made in this work, which was new and exceedingly difficult, marked Mrs. Allen as far-sighted ana as a leader of tact and insight. She has always been interested in public affairs. She was the chairman of the Utah County Council of Defense and Liberty Loan Committee during the World War. During Mr. Mabey's incumbency as governor, she acted on the State Welfare Board. She was vice-chairman of the County Red Cross, a position which she filled in a notable manner. She is the only woman in Utah county who has received the nomination on a ticket for the State Senate, and in 1924, she served her party as a delegate in the National Convention, which was held in New York City. She has inherited great sympathy and understanding of human kind from her parents and possesses in a very marked degree the philanthropic spirit of her father. She comes to 
 the General Board well prepared for the work, gifted as a speaker, with a breadth of vision and depth of feeling that makes her intelligent in her judgments as a sympathetic and tender in all her contacts. Pies Ida Peterson Beal. The Junior member of the General Board of the Relief, Society is Ida Peterson Beal. In her womanhood she reveals all the charm that her girlhood promised. She was born in Ephraim, Sanpete county, and is the youngest daughter of the late President Canute Peterson and Charlotte Eckstrom Peterson. Her home is described, by one who is well acquainted with it, "as a good, old-fashioned, hospitable home where every stranger found a welcome." Her early education was received in the grade schools at Ephraim and later in the Snow Academy, from which she was graduated. Following her work at Snow Academy she attended the Brigham Young University, where she remained nearly three years. She specialized in music in that institution, and under the able training of Professor A. C. Lund, made rapid advancement. While at the Brigham Young University she had one of the most musical and truly beautiful voices that has ever been heard in the institution. She will be remembered by those who recall her work there as one of the first of Professor Lund's students to receive general recognition and admiration because of her unusual gift of song. She took the leading role in the first opera staged by the music department, playing opposite to Oscar A. Kirkham, Executive Secretary of the Young Men's organization. On her return home she taught two years in the grade schools of Ephraim, later marrying T. A. Beal, son of President Henry Beal, who was then serving on the faculty of the Snow Academy. This ambitious young couple continued their work first in the University of Utah and later at Columbia University, New York City, Three years were spent in the eastern metropolis, where Mrs. Beal was enrolled for special work. On her return home she was called to the presidency of the stake Primary Association, a position which she undoubtedly filled with delight to the children, as she is just the type 'of person to whom children are instinctively drawn. ~But her time was not solely taken up by the Primary Association, for Member of General Board MRS. IDA PETERSON BEAL 
 the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and Relief Society each claimed a share. In 1913, her husband accepted a professorship at the University of Utah, which established her in Salt Lake City. Since her residence in Salt Lake City she has served both the Y. L. M. I. A. And the Relief Society in an official capacity. About four years ago she was called to be a member of the Liberty stake Relief Society Board. A year, covering part of 1925 and part of 1926, was spent in Europe, where she took advantage of opportunities offered in the cities of Heidelberg and Berlin?cities noted for their cultural advantages. While abroad she came in contact with different auxiliary organizations of the Church, to whom she bore her testimony of the truth of the Latter-day work. On August 17, 1927, she was called to be a member of the General Board of the Relief Society. She is active in civic Organizations as well as Church organizations. At present she is the secretary and treasurer of the Woman's National Republican Federation, also president of the Faculty Women of the University of Utah. All her work has been done joyously, and all who have come in contact with her have felt radiating from her a spirit of delight that characterizes only those who love deeply and ? sincerely the work they are doing. Genevieve Thornton The Magazine is particularly gratified to present to its readers a sketch of the life of Miss Genevieve Thornton, who has been employed to supervise the case work of the Family Welfare Department of the Latter-day Saints Relief Society at Relief Society Headquarters. Miss Thornton comes to her new position especially -well prepared for her work. From her childhood she has been exceedingly ambitious. During one year of her high school work it was not possible for her to attend school, so she did her studying at home and passed an examination at the end of the school year that was of very high grade. She did her first college work in the Branch Agricultural College in Cedar City, afterwards completing her college course at the University of Utah. In the college at Cedar City she indicated her interest in social work by upholding the affirmative GENEVIEVE THORNTON 539 in a college debate on the question of a legal minimum wage for women in industry. While attending the University of. Utah she did field work for the Family Welfare Department of the Relief Society by special arrangement, and was employed by this organization as social worker for three years following her graduation. Miss Thornton was born in southern Utah, at Pinto, Washington county. She is the daughter of Edmund T. And Jennie Sargent Thornton. Her paternal grandfather was Amos Thornton and her maternal great-grandfather was William Snow. The names of these two men are household names in southern Utah. They were called to go to that part of the country and settle, and the achievements of their sons and daughters are yearly proclaiming the worth of their forbears. The family lived at Pinto and New Castle, a town settled by Pinto people, until a year ago, when they made Delta their home. Miss Thornton left Utah to enter the graduate school of Social Service Administration at the University of Chicago, from which institution she took her Masters degree in 1926. Miss Thornton's thesis made a study of public school provision for deaf, blind and crippled children in Chicago, the first city in the United States to make adequate educational provision for such children. This study included a first hand study of the special schools for crippled, the special centers for deaf and hard of hearing children, and the Braille and sight-saving classes for blind and partially sighted children. After taking her masters degree she was employed as social worker with the United Charities of Chicago, a family welfare organization which cared for nearly 12,000 families during the year 1926. Concerning this experience, one of the daily papers says: "Due to the foreign born and negro element in the population of Chicago and the fact that Chicago is a great industrial center, social work there offers a most varied experience." After leaving the employ of the United Charities, July 1, 1927, Miss Thornton spent three weeks visiting social service organizations, including the large church agencies in the larger cities in the East. One interesting feature in relation to Miss Thornton's work is the fact that last spring when Judge Victor P. Arnold of the Chicago Juvenile Court ordered a competitive examination for probation officers, Miss Thornton was one of a group of nearly 200 who took this examination. The citizens' examining committee in its report placed her tenth on the list of eligible officers. Through the summer of 1926, Miss Thornton was a res- MISS GENEVIEVE THORNTON, M. A. Supervisor of Case Work in Family Welfare Department, Relief Society GENEVIEVE THORNTON 541 ident at Hull House, a historical social settlement founded by Jane Addams in 1889, in the midst of large foreign colonies in Chicago. "In the beginning of the social settlement work at Hull House, northern Europeans filled in the surrounding space. Then the population shifted and southern and eastern Europeans came in. The newest comer of all is the Mexican. Yet, through the shifting scenes, Hull House has not ceased in its activities, but has provided an ever increasing number of social opportunities for the people of the neighborhood. Everybody who has visited Hull House remembers, the theater in which Hull House players, who are the neighborhood people, are the actors. A nursery for the children of working mothers and a dental clinic are among the features of this settlement." Miss Thornton has also had experience in the Chicago social settlement, close up to the stockyards where one is reminded with every breeze that blows that she is in contact with one of the not very agreeable features of our modern industrial life.. Recently at the organization of the Women's International League For Peace, in Salt Lake City, Mrs. J. A. Hogle was chosen temporary chairman and Miss Genevieve Thornton temporary secretary. Miss Thornton is a woman of marked refinement and of very gentle manners. She is the first person from New Castle, her home community, to take a Master's Degree, and one of very few to take a Bachelor's Degree. She is the most highly trained supervisor that the Welfare Department has as yet had on its staff. We congratulate Miss Thornton on her achievements and we also congratulate the Welfare Department of the Relief Society on the appointment of one so well fitted to carry on this very important branch of its work. Beautiful Logan Canyon By Mrs. George O. Rich O beautiful Logan Canyon, The brilliant red of the maple, Decked out in Fall array; The quaking asp turning gold, With all your bright, gay colors, We stand in admiration, You seem to have full sway. At what nature doth unfold. The big, pine trees on the mountain, Remain in their dress of green. As lovely a picture to gaze upon As artist has ever seen. Woman Customs-Head Pleads Right Living Taken from the Christian Science Monitor, Boston, July 26, 1927. ln HANDLING Bic Task IN HAWAIIAN ISLANDS Honolulu, T. H.?Mrs. Jeanette Hyde has now filled the post of Collector of Customs, in the Hawaiian Islands, for more than two years. As the only woman occupying so responsible an office in a collection outpost district, under the Treasury Department, the record of her service holds much of interest, especially when the fact is considered that the duties handled by her office average more than $1,750,000 annually. She came here from Utah by virtue of appointment by the President, confirmed by the Senate, and assumed her duties on April 21, 1925. She is at her office in the Federal Building, of which, by virtue of her position, she is custodian, usually at 7:30 o'clock, but not later than 8 in the morning. She remains usually until at least 4:30, and frequently until 5:40 and 6 o'clock, except when her duties call her to the wharves and docks or aboard some newly arrived vessel. WHAT TO OVERCOME Shortly after entering upon her work as a collector, Mrs. Hyde began a systematic effort to improve the customs service. She found that the employees were dissatisfied with their pay. "All wanted increases in compensation, whether it was earned or whether they were capable of earning it," she says. "It seemed to be the main thought that they must have better wages, without stopping to consider that I had first to adjust my pay roll to suit the budget which had been allotted for this port." Mrs. Hyde found that at the docks there was one set of working hours, the business houses had another, and the customs force a still different one. After several conferences with business men the hour of 7 in the morning was agreed upon as the daily starting time. She continues her narrative: "The next great problem was that of limiting the issuance of passes to board incoming vessels, to meet the regulations prescribed by the department. I think this called forth the most vicious attacks and most violent abuse that anyone has ever been called upon to endure. The very method of elimination of passes has since proved so satisfactory that the PLEADS RIGHT LIVING 543 steamship companies themselves are more exacting as to how many and to whom passes are issued, showing that the Government's regulations have proved successful." Explains Her Dry DUTIES Prior to the orders issued by Mrs. Hyde, communication between ship and shore was under little restraint. In consequence there were numerous ways by which narcotics, liquor and other contraband could be smuggled in. Mrs. Hyde is emphatic in her views on this phase of her duties. "As to prohibition," she says, "many people here are laboring under a misconstrued idea with regard to the functioning of the Collector of Customs. In the matter of enforcing prohibition, the only official recognition the Collector of Customs has is the seizure of foreign contraband coming ashore or being brought into the Territory. Local prohibition is enforced entirely through the Prohibition Unit, over which the Collector has no jurisdiction and no official concern; but so far as foreign imports are concerned it is entirely within the Collector's province to seize all foreign liquors and as far as possible to prevent their being brought into the Territory. This act has been consistently enforced. "But more serious than the amount of liquor brought in is that of opium, morphine, cocaine an other narcotics. It requires constant and vigilant perseverance on the part of the customs force to prevent large quantities being brought ashore. "T think one of the greatest handicaps, and one that gives one in an official position great concern, is the finding of men and women of the higher strata of life and those who have sworn to uphold and obey the law in their official positions disregarding the law itself. CrosE Watch Kept "If people in executive positions are exacting of themselves to observe regulations and will require those who work with them to do the same, it builds up the morale and confidence that only can be secured by right living and right doing. Your lives are above reproach, and no matter what the criticism from people or press, you have the confidence of men and women who know you as to the truth of statements made to the contrary.. "This is an honest administrative policy which cannot fail if adhered to. This has been the standard which I have tried to establish with myself, and I have asked of those who work with me to observe, as nearly as possible, the regulations which they are asked to enforce upon other people." After having rearranged working hours, Mrs. Hyde 
 instituted a system of promotions among the men and women of the customs force based upon merit. Then, as some of the employees resigned from the service, she utilized the pay which had been given them to increase the pay of those remaining, the latter agreeing to give more efficient service. The increases in pay thus given range from $100 to $150 a year. And yet the budget of expenses of the collector's office has not been increased or exceeded. Mrs. Hyde also found that employees receiving only $1,200 to $1,500 a year, with families of five and six children to support, were wearing $65 suits and $17 hats. "It was unreasonable in the extreme," she says. "So I obtained bids and prices on suits and caps. Then I turned the whole question over to the men themselves, and let them decide what they wanted to wear. They finally chose a lightweight blue serge uniform suited to this climate and in accordance with custom regulations, which, with an extra pair of trousers cost them only $59; also caps costing only $5? a total saving of $18 per man. PERSONNEL IMPROVED "T asked each man to equip himself with a new suit and cap, as those they had were much worn, and to appear in them when on the docks while on duty. They are privileged, however, to wear their old clothing while discharging cargoes. "With shoes polished, trousers neatly pressed, dark ties and light shirts, the force now presents the appearance of real Government employees. The department supplied me with new badges and insignias for the caps, adding to their natty apparel. "I ask the men to work with me and not for me. I have not been obliged to dismiss any member of the force, although I have made transfers to better the service. Efficiency records are kept of each employee, so that when application is made for a promotion, our office records show whether it is deserved. This permits the working out of an honor system. Personal attention to duty and personal interest in work is encouraged by promise of commensurate pecuniary reward." In the period from April 21, 1925, when Mrs. Hyde began her duties, to April 30, 1927, the collections of the Hawaiian customs district amounted to $3,635,256.92. Narcotics valued at $40,000 and liquor valued at $12,000 were seized. The disbursements of the office for the same period amounted to $328,491.69. Put more simply, the cost of collecting $1 from April 22, 1926, to April 30, 1927, was 9 cents. Such is the record of Mrs. Hyde's office from its financial viewpoint. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth Magazine Vou. XIV NOVEMBER, 1927 No. 11 EDITORIAL Grandsons of the Three Witnesses of the Book of Mormon It is exceedingly gratifying and, under the circumstances perhaps passing strange, that descendants of all three of the witnesses of the Book of Mormon should have visited the Arizona temple since it has been open to the public. It would be gratifying under any circumstances to have these visits, but it is particularly gratifying at a time when the centenary of the delivery of the plates. Of the Book of Mormon to Joseph the Prophet is being commemorated. It is passing strange because the witnesses, in having left the Church would naturally be expected to embitter their posterity when making explanation by way of justification for their act, after having had the visit of an angel. For this reason it is particularly significant that their interests should have led them to make a visit to a temple built by the Latter-day Saints. Oliver Cowdery's grandson came from Cleveland, Ohio. The grandson of David Whitmer very likely came from the place where David Whitmer resided, while Lehi Harris, the grandson of Martin Harris, is a worker on the temple. We are delighted that they have shown so much interest. We trust they feel that they are part and portion of the great latter day work. 
 With dinner due in an hour and a-half there was time neither for rest nor for the churning that must be done before night. She went into the closet for her hat, and while reaching, dislodged a kodak album. A picture fluttered to the floor. She picked it up and stood staring at it like something she had never seen before. It was one of those bits of crystallized life that almost drugs with its peace?she and Dr. Charlie Black, both in white, lolling contentedly in two huge wicker chairs, a glimpse of rose-bordered bungalow behind them; a sweep of wide lawn before them, with a shadow from an ash tree caught in its velvet?that was all; but it spoke to Ruth of what might have been. She remembered the days so well. Dr. Charlie had brought her out to his mother's home for a few days before he left to study medicine. For a moment Ruth almost caught the thrill of his caressing voice?'"It will all be ours some day, Girlie, if you'll just say the word.", Somehow her memories of Dr. Black were always bound up with leisure, moonlight nights, boxes of flowers and candy, and a vague, uneasy feeling that he was not wholly sincere. She had felt herself desperately in love with Dr. Black, then, but something had held her back from making the promise that he sought. "Wait till you come back and we'll see how we feel then," she told him. Then Melvin had come into her life, and something way down * in the deep, still part of her being responded to the bigness of his soul, his sincerity, his utter disregard of sham, and before Dr. Black had finished his second year of study, a narrow band of gold proclaimed Ruth?Mrs. Melvin Packard. Melvin had already bought a farm about ten miles out from Adamson, Dr. Black's home town. Dr. Black, himself, had married shortly afterward?a St. Louis girl, and three years later had come back to practice in his home town and occupy the white bungalow that his mother's death had made his own. "We are only here temporarily," Mrs. Black confided to Ruth at their first meeting. "I simply couldn't bear to live permanently in a town where its people fail to dress for dinner." A sharp contrast rose in Ruth's mind of the difference in hers and Mrs. Black's method of spending this day. Mrs. Black no doubt was working among her flowers, or embroidering out on her shady porch. Ruth looked with disdain on the ink-stained ' table runner. She must find time to run down to the store for a lemon. Lemon and, O yes, salt, that would take it out. INK SPOTS AND GOLDEN GLOW 557 Her toe caught in the frayed end of a rug. Another job that must not be put off another day. At noon, Ruth filled a bucket with hot water and set it with soap and wash basin on a bench outside the kitchen door. She hung two towels on a nail above it. If only the "hands" would wash before they wiped, and if the last sweating man would think to throw out the water. She found herself praying that there wouldn't be a black, dirty ring around the wash basin. The men talked incessantly of the need of getting the hay up before storm, of derricks, of bull rakes?she would scream if they said bull rake again! What would Melvin think if she screamed out at these men who were making a slave of her? draining the last drop of beauty from her soul! Melvin, ready to leave for the field again, touched her tenderly on the shoulder. "You don't look well, dear; leave the dishes and I'll help you when I come in tonight." "Oh, I'm all right. It's this awful heat." Suddenly she remembered the apples?she must cook enough for supper, and for pies for tomorrow's dinner. It was a shame to open her canned fruit with apples spoiling on the tree. She would go down and pick a pailful before she changed her dress. She put Junior in his buggy, and gave him some clothespins with which to play while she picked a few of the lowest apples; then finding that the reaching sent hot waves of pain through her back and head, she dragged out an old box and swung herself up into the lower limbs. One of Junior's safety pins converted her skirt into a basket and she proceeded to billow out its depths with the tender, luscious fruit. "Well, well, Mrs. Packard," a metallic voice greeted her, "is your husband hiring you by the day or by the hour?" Ruth's eyes rested in dismay on the smartly clad Mrs. Black so cooly scrutinizing her. "I?ve come to take you into Madrix." Madrix was the cosmopolitan little city that drew its trade, not alone from its own citizens, but the surrounding towns as well. "I'm driving in to get some dresses I ordered a week ago. I really haven't a thing to wear as you can see."; Ruth saw a rose-colored sport suit?the kind she had dreamed about for herself?lovely in its quality and cut. "T tried to call you up but central couldn't raise you; so I just took a chance on your going and drove out. We'll have dinner at Murello's,"' Mrs. Black continued, "and then home again at a respectable bed time. I left a note for the Doctor saying I'd be back not later than ten o'clock." "Oh, I'm so sorry, Mrs. Black, but I really can't." A vision of two "hands" again for supper, churning to do, apples to 
 stew, clothes to put to soak. Why, oh, why could she never get through? "Well, of course, if you can't?" Mrs. Black's voice held well-bred contempt, "it must be terrible to never have any leisure." When she had gone, Ruth got slowly down from the tree. For the life of her she could not hurry except in her thoughts. They rushed ahead to the never ending drudgery. She started for the kitchen but the house began to recede, whirling faster and faster as she neared it. She stretched her hand out for the knob to steady herself and fell headlong across the step. When she awoke it was in the dim stillness of a white hospital room. "What's happened?" she asked faintly of the crisp vision in white, bending over her. "Operation, Mrs. Packard, just lie still now and you' won't feel so sick," and the nurse tiptoed out for a moment, leaving Melvin alone with his wife. His face, Ruth thought, looked unnaturally white through its heavy coat of tan, yet his lips smiled whenever her eyes rested on him. It seemed to Ruth that she had been wandering through a burning desert and the coolness and stillness that had descended upon her now was an oasis of peace. Dr. Black, himself, came in presently, "Doing just fine. We'll have you up in no time now, and feeling a lot better than before you stretched yourself out on the doorstep, too." When Ruth was well enough to be propped up among her pillows, she found a quiet enjoyment in the well-ordered efficiency of the life about her, no rush or hurry; the calm and quiet nurses showed no signs of fatigue. Three times daily the tray furnished a happy surprise. She could even read a few minutes at a time, some of the lovely things in Browning or Keats?things that had been completely crowded out by the many demands that farm life makes on its women. Jasimine McFarlane, the nurse whom Melvin secretly called Jazzy, because of her kittenish action when Dr. Black was around, had warned Ruth against such "heavy trash" and had offered her a copy of True Stories. "Something racy enough to be interesting" she had told her. But Ruth had continued with her Browning. Once Dr. Black had brought her a great box of roses. "From my own garden," he told her. "T know, there on the south, I shall never forget how it looked that day we had those snaps taken." "Nor I," he answered. A warm note crept into his voice, "Oh, my Gypsy Lady,' INK SPOTS AND GOLDEN GLOW 559 Gypsie Lady was a name he had coined for her in one of his gay, tender moods, long ago, "that rose garden ought to have been yours. What a picture you'd make against those dark red ones!" Ruth resented his use of that endearing term, his tone; and yet it quickened her pulse and made flaming banners of her cheeks. Melvin had come in just then and he carried a huge bunch of golden glow. "Mother picked them;' he said, "while I was cranking the jitney. They look pretty commonplace against those roses, though." Melvin sat down by the bed and took one of her hands in his work-hardened ones. The hard callouses on his hands irritated her tender flesh. She found herself sharply aware of Melvin's rough khaki trousers, his heavy shoes. She wished he had taken time to put on his black suit. That wouldn't have contrasted so badly with Dr. Black's well pressed gray. Instantly Ruth felt ashamed. Hadn't Melvin already added another hour to his already long work day, digging the trenches for the pipe so that they could have the water installed in the house before she came home. "You can come for your wife tomorrow evening, Mr. Packard," Dr. Black told Melvin as he was leaving, and the light that sprang into Melvin's eyes found an answering one in Ruth's. Melvin left at nine o'clock. Through her open window Ruth heard him crank the car and drive away; one more night and she would be with him and baby Junior! Miss McFarlane came in presently to see if her patient needed anything, but Ruth was already asleep. The nurse tiptoed out, leaving the door partly ajar. Directly across the hall from Ruth's room was the supply room. It was here the nurses often congregated for a brief gossip and Ruth found her knowledge of human nature vastly enlarged from the low-toned conversations that occasionally drifted in. > Shortly after midnight, Ruth awoke. She could hear someone moving quietly around in the supply room. Miss McFarlane, no doubt, preparing a sleeping potion for some wakeful patient. Suddenly she heard someone coming down the hall. Dr. Black, she couldn't mistake those footsteps! She caught a glimpse of his coat as he entered the supply room. "I thought I'd find you here," she heard him say in a low voice. The girl's answer was blotted out in a ripple of laughter that followed. "You little devil,' Ruth heard a slight scuffle, "you know you want me to kiss you." A moment's silence then, followed by more hushed whisperings. Ruth's face burned in the darkness. And this was the man whose wife she envied! This was the man with whom 
 Melvin had suffered in comparison! She was humbled and humiliated. Why, Melvin was worth more than a world full of Dr. Blacks with their well pressed clothes, their laughing eyes and their lying lips. What did it matter if she did sometimes work beyond her strength; what mattered if she were denied some of the luxuries of life? Rose colored dresses, music, money, leisure, Mrs. Black needed them all to compensate her for the hollowness of her husband's love. Separators, churning, canning, hay men, yes, and a thousand other things, so long as she was harbored in the love of a man like Melvin. The following evening Melvin and Junior came for her in the jitney. The ride home through the mellow autumn twilight, Junior's chubby, little hands clutching tightly to hers, Melvin's voice tremulous with love and tenderness, it was like a benediction. "I feel like a church all lighted up with Easter candles," she thought. When they turned into the lane that led to the house, Ruth caught sight of her mother-in-law standing in the doorway, waving frantically with one hand while with the other she wiped her eves on her apron. "Joy is the only thing that can make mother do that," Melvin smiled. He drove up to the door and then carried Ruth in and deposited her on the living-room couch. Mother Packard had supper ready, and when she brought Ruth's tray, it held a single, white rose bud. "Melvin would have me put it. On," the good woman scolded, "though I've always said "less grass, more grub, for me." Her harsh laughter sounded strangely home-like and com- "forting after the stilled, unnatural atmosphere of the hospital. When the dishes were washed and Junior had kissed "Muvver" good-night, and been tucked into bed, Mother Packard, herself, awkwardly planted a kiss-on her daughter's forehead. ?I'll be over first thing in the morning," she said, "to see if Emmy's doing all right." She closed the door and Melvin and Ruth were alone in the silence of their sleeping house. Ruth looked lovingly at each object, the picture of Junior in its gilt frame, the piano in its shadow-darkened corner, the sixteen-dollar reading lamp Melvin had given her for Christmas. In its pool of yellow light, Ruth saw a great bunch of golden glow in her brass bowl. "It's to cover up that ink-stain," Melvin said quickly, when he saw her eyes resting on it. "You know, dear, you kept talking about the ink spots when you were coming out of the ether. I happened to remember it after I had started for you tonight, INK SPOTS AND GOLDEN GLOW 561 so I hurried back and filled that bowl with golden glow so those ink spots wouldn't show." "Dear boy," Ruth's voice was husky, "this home, my baby, your love?that's the golden glow. With it the ink spots don't matter." Thanksgiving By Beatrice Williams I thank thee, Lord, for mountains grand and tall, For dull, gray skies of bleak November days, For that lone robin on the old stone wall, That sings in sweetest tones his parting lays. I thank thee for that tiny flower, there, That in the garden bed still blooms alone. Its golden head was once so bright and fair, But now it droops as by the wind 'tis blown. I thank thee for the friends thou givest me, To clasp my hand and lead my feet aright, To banish grief and help my eyes to see, And give me faith to pray throughout the night. For thine own son, who died that we might live And know our Father's glory and his might; My humblest thanks in praise to thee I give, Oh, Lord and Savior, of the truth and light. List of Literary Lessons for 1928 Lew Sarett Bertha A. Kleinman Carl Sanburg Grace Ingles Frost John Masefield Gladys Ann Wagstaff Robert Louis Stevenson Elsie C. Carroll Charles G. D.