With dinner due in an hour and a-half there was time neither for rest nor for the churning that must be done before night. She went into the closet for her hat, and while reaching, dislodged a kodak album. A picture fluttered to the floor. She picked it up and stood staring at it like something she had never seen before. It was one of those bits of crystallized life that almost drugs with its peace—she and Dr. Charlie Black, both in white, lolling contentedly in two huge wicker chairs, a glimpse of rose-bordered bungalow behind them; a sweep of wide lawn before them, with a shadow from an ash tree caught in its velvet—that was all; but it spoke to Ruth of what might have been. She remembered the days so well. Dr. Charlie had brought her out to his mother's home for a few days before he left to study medicine. For a moment Ruth almost caught the thrill of his caressing voice—'"It will all be ours some day, Girlie, if you'll just say the word.", Somehow her memories of Dr. Black were always bound up with leisure, moonlight nights, boxes of flowers and candy, and a vague, uneasy feeling that he was not wholly sincere. She had felt herself desperately in love with Dr. Black, then, but something had held her back from making the promise that he sought. "Wait till you come back and we'll see how we feel then," she told him. Then Melvin had come into her life, and something way down ~* in the deep, still part of her being responded to the bigness of his soul, his sincerity, his utter disregard of sham, and before Dr. Black had finished his second year of study, a narrow band of gold proclaimed Ruth—Mrs. Melvin Packard. Melvin had already bought a farm about ten miles out from Adamson, Dr. Black's home town. Dr. Black, himself, had married shortly afterward—a St. Louis girl, and three years later had come back to practice in his home town and occupy the white bungalow that his mother's death had made his own. "We are only here temporarily," Mrs. Black confided to Ruth at their first meeting. "I simply couldn't bear to live permanently in a town where its people fail to dress for dinner." A sharp contrast rose in Ruth's mind of the difference in hers and Mrs. Black's method of spending this day. Mrs. Black no doubt was working among her flowers, or embroidering out on her shady porch. Ruth looked with disdain on the ink-stained ' table runner. She must find time to run down to the store for a lemon. Lemon and, O yes, salt, that would take it out.