HESTELLA KUTTLER CREATES BEAUTY WITH CROCHET HOOK AND KNITTING NEEDLES Hestella Abrams Kuttler, Pocatello, Idaho, has found the satisfying enrichment of life that handicraft gives to a woman who loves beautiful articles for decorating the home, for presenting as gifts, and for supplying ''best sellers' for Relief Society bazaars. Many of Sister Kuttler's crochet and knitting designs are made in patterns of her own creation, and all of them are ''stitched with fine exactitude.'' Her afghans, doilies, tablecloths, and bedspreads are exquisite, and she has made hundreds of novelty articles, including crocheted baskets, flower holders, pillow tops, wall hangings, and artificial flowers. She has also knitted and crocheted jackets and sweaters and made decorative stitchings as trimmings. Recently, in one year, she pieced three quilts and did all the quilting on four quilts. Sister Kuttler has served twelve years as a ward Relief Society president, twelve years as a class leader, and has served many years as a teacher in Sunday School and YWMIA, as well as being a devoted researcher in genealogy. After the death of her husband, she served in the Southwest Indian Mission. Six of her eight children are living, and she has thirty-seven grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. At eighty-one years of age, she attends temple sessions regularly and takes care of her own home. Synopsis: Julie Ridgehaven, of Sydney, Australia, while attending college in California, receives a cablegram from her Aunt Isabelle, asking her to fly home at once. Her friend Betz Condon accompanies her, and the girls meet Carolyn Bridges, matron at a hospital in Perth. During a stopover in Fiji, Dan Fargo, a friend of Grandfather Ridgehaven, boards the plane, and Julie learns that her fiance Ron McLaren is lost in the bush. When they arrive in Sydney, they find that Grandfather has made plans for an expedition into the bush to help in the search for Ron. Aunt Isabelle talked in such a low voice Julie had to bend her head to hear her. "T could not bear to tell Dr. George," she said. "I wanted his love, not his pity. So I went away for my first operation. No one knew, not even my parents. Only Dr. Spencer has known all these years." Julie caught her breath. Dr. Spencer was the best cancer uy