[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 2 | Fiction | Throw Down the | Gauntlet Chapter]
[Throw Down the Gauntlet Chapter]

The Relief Society Magazine - October 1967, Vol. 54, No. 


, VOL. 54, NO. 10 At Half-Past Autumn Peggy Tangren The year is measured by a shadow's length And now it is half-past autumn. Behind small weirs of sodden maple leaves Rain waters deepen into little lakes; The cradling nest has emptied To a sky wedge of swift wings. Two months ago this forest reeled And roared defiance In wars with storm and wind And held its roots. But now, at half-past autumn, A soughing fills the pauses in the woods' deep breathing. October, tremulous and slow, Descends the mountain Down from cliff and canyon To the drowsing hills, Then waits, as an aging patriarch Who, seeing beyond his sightless eyes, A vision of resurgence, and its keeping, Stands waiting with the waiting land. The Cover: Sun and Shadow in Zion Canyon, Utah Transparency by Willard Luce Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Fish Lake on the High Plateau, Utah Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far I am twenty-one years of age and a student nurse. I have been a member of the Church for nine months and many times the Magazine has been a great encouragement in strengthening my faith. I love the stories and lessons, and the poetry has a special appeal. Margery Miller Dublin, Ireland I have had to ask to be released as Magazine representative for Baldwin Park Ward, West Covina Stake, as my eighty-two years have, perhaps, rebelled at all the running around I have so very much enjoyed doing. No doubt I will still "guide" some of the subscribers to our new representative, Sister Kole. Mabel C. Ridley Baldwin Park, California We are living in La Paz, Bolivia, where my husband is working as a cereal advisor with a contract team from Utah State University. We enjoy the Magazine possibly even more here than at home, where so much is taken for granted. The Magazine is more beautiful all the time. Jayne D. Van Epps La Paz, Bolivia The Magazine is a real source of spiritual nourishment to myself and family. (When my daughter, who is eighteen, left for work this morning, she took a Magazine with her for reading at lunch time.) I always read the Magazine from cover to cover, and have my own index on stories, poems, articles, recipes, gospel doctrine, etc. that I find pertinent to my needs and disposition. The poetry is especially lovely. It is usually delicate and sensitive pastel colors of exquisite expression. Wanda F. Hilton Walnut Creek, California I received the June 1967 issue of the Magazine today, and felt excited and happy to see the note on the From Near and Far page from Nita Olsen, as she has been my friend for more than twenty years. We once lived in the same branch in Australia, and we still correspond to this day. She married and settled in Ogden eight years ago and has two children. I am married to an Aussie and have four children. My husband and I were on a building mission to New Zealand for two years and our first two sons were born there. I learned to make over clothes for my family and attended Relief Society regularly. I am thankful for the good and uplifting messages in the Magazine the stories and the lessons. I am enthused over the "Mix-and-Match Wardrobes" (by Ethelynn Keiser) in the June Magazine. I love to learn and am grateful for the development one can obtain from Relief Society and from the Magazine. Elaine Troy Beal Wood North Parramatta N. S. W. Australia I love The Relief Society Magazine and can never throw any of the numbers away. I especially enjoy the poetry. "Wind Lullaby," by Beulah Huish Sadleir in the April issue is just right for this spring. I hope sometime to see one of her poems as a frontispiece. Maxine Lind Salt Lake City, Utah I am most grateful for The Relief Society Magazine, and also to be able to be a member of the Relief Society, the privilege of baptism, and becoming a member of the Church in 1966. Norma Gill Park Alhambra, California Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve (Address Delivered at Relief Society Conference, Hyde Park Chapel, London, England, May 27, 1967) ¢ The Relief Society of the Church is spoken of as an auxiliary of the Priesthood. The more I have thought of Relief Society and the Priesthood together, the more I am convinced it is a great partnership even as husband and wife are a partnership. The Priesthood and Relief Society are a partnership, and together they are expected to carry forward the program, whereby the Almighty seeks to bring immortality and eternal life to all of us. Priesthood and Relief Society The great objective of both Relief Society and the Priesthood is the subject mentioned in the beautiful anthem just sung, '""My Peace I Give Unto You." It is peace not as the world gives it. The world does not understand true peace; but the true followers of Christ do, because it is that peace that passeth all understanding. And that peace, centered in the Savior of the world, rests to a large extent upon the homes and family life of Latter-day Saints. There again is the partnership of the Priesthood and Relief Society. We would hope that every woman in the Church be- 724 comes a member of Relief Society, and we would hope that every man in the Church would hold and honor the Priesthood. In the home father and mother—Priesthood and Relief Society are working together as a glorious partnership in developing a home life that will produce a new generation of humble, devoted Latterday Saints. The principal objective of the home is to produce good Latterday Saints. Relief Society — the mothers—cannot do this entirely by themselves. The Priesthood— the fathers—cannot do it entirely by themselves. Again, it is a situation whereby we need a complete, harmonious, understanding partnership between the men and the women of the Church. We need to build stronger homes, and in these homes we must see that the hearts of the fathers and the mothers are truly turned to the children, and that the children's hearts are truly tured to their parents. "The Hearts of the Children" We often quote the last two Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family verses of Malachi, wherein the prophet said, 'Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful. Day of the Lord... And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse." Generally, we relate this scripture to genealogical activity. It is properly so related, but must it be exclusively? I know of no scripture which says that this prophecy relates exclusively to the genealogical program. I am sure that under the inspiration of the Almighty, Malachi looked down through the ages and saw our time, when family life is breaking - up, wholesale, in almost every nation of the world. We, today, have lost sight—I speak of the world at large, not of the Church—of the real meaning of the family. They have lost sight of the importance of the relationship of parents to children and of children to parents. I think it is altogether fitting that the Almighty should send a prophet to the earth in the last days, as an angel of heaven, to turn the hearts of the parents to their responsibilities toward their children—their living children—and to turn the hearts—I mean the tender hearts—of children to their parents, so that children will really love their parents and be obedient to them, and so that parents will truly love their children and cherish them, and care for them all their lives, and never turn them out at fourteen or fifteen; and never do anything but develop and generate and preserve love and family harmony and unity and the closeness of the family. Responsibility of Parents Regardless of age, the hearts of the fathers must be turned to their children and the hearts of the children to their fathers, and I assure you that this means mothers also. The scriptures here use the word father in the broad sense that we use the word man. We speak of our forefathers and we mean foremothers, also, don't we? And when we speak in terms of man as being the human race, we certainly speak of all humans, male and female. When God said, "Let us make man in our image, male and female...," he meant exactly that. Where Malachi speaks of the hearts of the fathers, he is talking about the mothers, too. He is talking about parenthood. One of the great purposes of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ is to turn the hearts of the parents, in tenderness and love and in full responsibility, to their children. And one of the great purposes, likewise, is that we may so convert the children to the principles of the gospel that they will keep the great commandment which says, "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." It is a commandment of God that we honor our parents, and it is, likewise, a commandment of God that we honor our children and teach them the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.