[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 780 | Lesson | Spiritual Living Sustain the Brethren Roy | W. Doxey]
SPIRITUAL LIVING—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 84—Sustain the Brethren Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 108) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman is blessed as she observes her vows and sustains the Brethren in authority. INTRODUCTION From the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants. Many lessons are learned from the experience of early members of the Church. May we assume that instructions given to an individual at that time apply to members of the Church many decades later? When the Lord reveals a principle of salvation to one or to many, the same principle applies to all of us, provided he has not placed that law in abeyance. (D&C 93: 49.) Important instructions for the benefit of Lyman Sherman are recorded in Section 108. These truths are so essential to every member of the Church that exal- 780 tation in the celestial kingdom is impossible without obedience to them. RESISTING THE VOICE OF THE LORD Lyman Sherman resisted the voice of the Lord by failing to observe the vows he had made with the Lord. (Ibid., 108:3.) Wherein do Latter-day Sainis resist the Lord's voice? It may be, as it was with Brother Sherman, that the still, small voice is resisted when it brings assurance that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is God's organization on the earth. It may be resisted when the Spirit whispers, when a choice must be made between other activities and at- tending to one's responsibilities in the Church (attendance at appointed meetings, performance of Church activities when scheduled), that one should place the kingdom of God first. It may be resisted when one's inclination to observe the various laws of the gospel, such as the Word of Wisdom, tithing, honesty, and so forth, are ignored in favor of spending the Lord's money for some pleasure, or lying in order to gain some advantage. There are numerous ways in which one may resist the voice of the Lord. REPENTANCE In Brother Sherman's case we have an example of the Lord's concern for the repentant. This principle requires that the individual who has repented of his sins should be prepared to keep the covenants he has made with the Lord. Forgiveness comes from the Lord, as it did to Brother Sherman. (Jbid., v. 1.) It is certain that when the Lord said to him ''be more careful henceforth in observing your vows" (Jbid., v. 3), this same counsel could be said to every member of the Church. Class Discussion Why do you believe that you might profitably accept the counsel to Brother Sherman to be more careful in observing his vows? YOUR VOWS The word "vow" or "vows" as used in the Doctrine and Covenants follows the dictionary definition. A "vow" is a solemn promise or pledge, especially one made to God in which the person dedicates himself to service or a way of life. Lesson Department The word is used in association with words having similar meanings, such as covenants, contracts, bonds, obligations, oaths, and performances. It can be rightly said that every person who has accepted membership into the Church has made vows whereby he will abide by the laws of that kingdom. (Ibid., 41:5.) These covenants are to be observed 'in righteousness on all days and at all times" (Ibid., 59:11). PREMORTAL VOWS In the Great Council convened in the heavens before the earth was formed, the plan of salvation was presented to the spirit sons and daughters of God: Those who accepted the plan were permitted to receive a mortal body on the earth where they would "work out their salvation."' When we accepted the plan of salvation in the pre-earth life, we committed ourselves to abide by its laws and ordinances. (John A. Widtsoe, Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine, October 1934, p. 289.) Class Discussion Believing with all your heart that you lived premortally and that you made covenants there to perform certain services on the earth, how do you feel about fulfilling these covenants? VOWS OF THE KINGDOM Latter-day Saints begin their contract obligations at baptism. This vow includes the determination that the member will serve the Lord and show this by his works. (D&C 20:37.) The privilege of partaking of the sacrament to renew the covenants made in baptism is for the member of the Church. (3 Nephi 

781 October 1967

 18:5, 11.) These covenants include the following three things: (1) to take upon oneself the name of Christ; (2) always to remember him; and (3) to keep his commandments. (D&C 20:77-79.) In order to fulfill these vows the Lord said: And the members shall manifest before the church, and also before the elders, by a godly walk and conversation, that they are worthy of it, that there may be works and faith agreeable to the holy scriptures—walking in holiness before the Lord (Jbid., 20:69). Those who receive the Melchizedek Priesthood make an "oath and covenant" (Ibid., 84:40) that they will honor that Priesthood. (Ibid., 84:33-41.) Class Discussion What is your responsibility as a Latter-day Saint woman to encourage those holding the Priesthood? In the House of the Lord members of the Church have an additional privilege to make sacred covenants with him. President Joseph F. Smith, sixth President of the Church, in these words mentions some of these vows and the importance of observing them: We enter into covenants with the Lord that we will keep ourselves pure and unspotted from the world. We have agreed before God, angels and witnesses, in sacred places, that we will not commit adultery, will not lie, that we will not steal or bear false witness against our neighbor, or take advantage of the weak, that we will help and sustain our fellow men in the right, and take such a course as will prove effectual in helping the weak to overcome their weaknesses and bring themselves into subjection to the requirements of heaven. We cannot neglect, slight, or depart from the spirit, 782 meaning, intent and purpose, of these covenants and agreements, that we have entered into with our Father in Heaven, without shearing ourselves of our glory, strength, right and title to his blessings, and to the gifts and manifestations of his Spirit (Improvement Era 9:818). IMPORTANCE OF VOWS The Lord has declared by revelation that only those ordinances performed by his Priesthood at the time the recipients make vows, contracts, and covenants, remain in force when men are dead. All others "are of no efficacy, virtue, or force in and after the resurrection from the dead" (D&C 132:7). The person who turns away. From the vow which he has made with the Lord will find not only a loss of the promised blessings but cursings. (D&C 41:1; 124:48.) It is man who turns from the covenant, not the Lord. Class Discussion Why do you think that breaking a covenant with the Lord is a serious matter? STRENGTHEN YOUR BRETHREN On one occasion when the Israelites were brought out of Egyptian bondage, they were obliged to fight against Amalek. Moses commanded Joshua and some men to fight Amalek. When Moses held up his hands, Israel prevailed, when his hands came down, Amalek prevailed. Victory came to Israel because Moses was insistent in keeping his hands up until Israel won the victory. But Moses' hands were heavy; and they took a stone, and put it under him, and he sat thereon; and Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side; and his hands were steady until the going down of the sun (Exodus 17:12). And so it has always been. When the Lord's anointed has been supported by the people, the people, also, progress. When a bearer of the Priesthood acts in his calling to further the kingdom of God on the earth, he is performing service as though the Lord were doing it. (D&C 84:35- 38.) Symbolically, the saints covenant to support their leaders when they raise their hands to the square to sustain them. When a member of the Church refuses to accept the counsel of the First Presidency of the Church, he lays the foundation for insecurity. Such a person in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith was criticized in a revela-— tion for rejecting such counsel. ([bid., 124:84.) What does a person lose in his rebellion against the Lord's servants? President Joseph F. Smith answers by saying that the person "cuts himself off from the privileges and blessings of the Priesthood and Church, and severs himself from the people of God" (Journal of Discourses 24:193). COUNSEL TO ALL If a person enjoys the Spirit of the Lord, it will keep him from losing his faith and _ turning against the servants of the Lord. Some people, as President Joseph F. Smith said, will become critical because they "consider the small, mostly unintentionally committed errors of its officers, rather than the broader and more important labors" performed by them. (Gospel Doctrine, p. 254.) Lesson Department There are some specific things which members may do in sustaining those who preside over them. The Lord refers to these ways in the revelation to Elder Sherman, as follows: Therefore, strengthen your brethren in all your conversation, in all your prayers, in all your exhortations, and in all your doings (D&C 108:7). IN ALL YOUR CONVERSATIONS True loyalty to our friends and to our leaders is put to the test when we are not with them; when we have the opportunity to express our feelings to others about them. In all our conversations we are admonished to sustain those who preside over us. To speak falsehoods or rumors about someone is contrary to the principle of _ love of neighbor, a commandment under which we are placed. Surely one is not following this second great commandment if he is telling anything which would hurt another's character. (Matt. 22: 36-40; John 13:34-35.) In fact, James said that if one did not bridle his tongue, his religion was vain. (James 1:26.) It is believed by some that because something is true about a person, this thing can be told. Nothing could be further from the truth than to believe that one is justified in speaking the truth about a person regardless of the harm which may come to him because of it. Who knows but what that person has repented of that fault? The gospel teaches us that if we expect to receive forgiveness for sins we must also forgive others. (James E. Talmage, Articles of Faith, pp. 110-111.) We have no right to discredit a person before others. If the Lord has ac- '

783 October 1967

 cepted one's repentance, who has the right to mention one's faults to someone else? (D&C 58:42; Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, p. 263.) When we speak well of our leaders we increase their usefulness. An obligation rests upon the member of the Church to defend the character of an officer when assailed by someone. We cannot undo the wrong of bearing false witness against someone. (George F. Richards, Conference Report, April 1947, pp. 24, 26.) Parents who speak adversely against those in authority do harm to their children. Elder Mark E. Petersen related the case of parents who spoke against the bishop regularly in the home with consequent loss of respect for Church authorities by the children and which resulted in their being inactive. (Conference Report, October 1952, p. 30.) Two questions might well be asked by the person who is about to speak against another. First, what good will it do me to speak this thought? Second, what harm will what I say do to the person about whom I am about to speak? Class Discussion Explain how you can sustain the brethren in your conversations. IN ALL YOUR PRAYERS The person who has received the testimony that prayers are fulfilled, is anxious that the Lord will prosper the leaders of the Church. True love of those who preside in the Church is shown when there is a sincere desire for their physical well-being, their power to accomplish their calling, and for protection against harm. 784 This desire arises out of one's knowledge that the Lord has appointed the leaders and that the kingdom of God will prosper through these divinely appointed servants. With these solicitous feelings, the member of the Church prays that the Lord will bless the leaders. In a revelation, the Prophet Joseph Smith prayed that the Lord would remember the Presidents of the Church, that they might be exalted before the people, even that their names would be perpetuated through generations of time by what they would be able to accomplish. (D&C 109:71.) If a member of the Church does not sustain the brethren by praying for them, it would seem that he lacks the welfare of Zion in his heart. On the other hand, by this practice he builds in his own heart a further desire to accomplish his own responsibilities in the Church. The faithful member of the Church knows that the Lord will answer his prayers in behalf of his servants. IN ALL YOUR EXHORTATIONS Among the ways in which a member of the Church may show that he sustains those over him, is to show his loyalty in public. There are occasions when the Latter-day Saint has the opportunity to make such expressions, such as the testimony meeting, or when called upon to teach a class, or when speaking in the various meetings. In addition to counseling others to sustain the leadership of the Church, appreciation may be expressed for their diligent service. Although men and women must occupy positions of leadership in directing the work of the Lord, it should be remembered that one also honors the position or calling rather than the individual only. (Spencer W. Kimball, Conference Report, October 1958, p. 57.) When one remembers that the person appointed to office has not sought the position, but the Lord through his servants has appointed him, it should be evident that when respect is not shown to the leader, there is a disregard for the Priesthood of God. (Matt. 12: 30.) Class Discussion What value accrues to the presiding officer in the Church through the prayers of the saints and also in their exhortations? What value comes to the member of the Church when he prays for those over him and also when he sustains them publicly? IN ALL YOUR DOINGS In order that Elder Sherman and all other members of the Church might understand the extent to which one should sustain Lesson Department the brethren over them, the Lord said that this should be done "in all your doings" (D&C 108:7). _ Probably one of the additional ways in which this can be done is to accept the calls made upon the member by those in authority. CONCLUSION The Lord has said that only those who sustain his servants will find the blessings of the gospel. And if my people will hearken unto my voice, and unto the voice of my servants whom I have appointed to lead my people, behold, verily I say unto you, they shall not be moved out of their place. But if they will not hearken to my voice, nor unto the voice of these men whom I have appointed, they shall not be blest, because they pollute mine holy grounds, and mine holy ordinances, and charters, and my holy words which I give unto them (D&C 124: 45- 46). The member of the Church who sustains all of the officers of his ward, stake, and the General Authorities finds rich blessings. R BURNISHED FIELD Gladys Hesser Burnham When ripening grain waves softly in the breeze Rippling over hill and swale, it leaves An undulating swell like ocean waves In constant movement. Warming sunshine cleaves To golden stems and burnished fields await The combine. Circling furrows spin As heat waves shimmer, and the only noise A smokey drift of seagulls wheeling in To search out fallen grains. They glide and poise, Squalling a discord to a pleasant scene. > 

785 October 1967