[Vol25 | January 1938 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Ingenious Jane]
Ingenious Jane
By Lottie Hammer Singley
JANE vigorously turned the meat grinder as she gazed from her immaculate cream and yellow kitchen window. The wind had been playing hide and seek with the leaves all day, and dark clouds hung low, giving a chill to the autumn air that made one feel the certainty of winter just around the corner. The wind shook the snow-white curtains and made the appliqued designs dance inside as the colorful autumn leaves did outside.
Jane was a tiny thing, possessing more determination and stick-to-it-iveness than most two-hundred pound Scotchmen. Tucked within her was a philosophy of life enviable to the most astute. She was imbued with a power of meeting adversity equaled by few, envied by many. Crystallized to these characteristics and virtues was a strong unwavering faith and a highly developed mother love.
She was preparing the evening meal. There had been a time when it had consisted of from two to four courses. The last few years, however, circumstances had reduced the Harringtons from "T-bone steaks" to their present level of "stew". Her nose unconsciously went up as she emptied the left-over cabbage into the steaming brown mixture of meat and vegetables, for this was the third time this week for its return engagement and the week was yet young. In Jane's mind there were three convincing arguments for its return: Its nutritive value; its savory odor, which did have a cheering effect on a cold blustery night, and of this her husband was badly in need; and last because there was nothing else to cook.
She shook the grate vigorously. The old dependable Majestic boomed forth with its best efforts, throwing a cheerful glow about the kitchen from its open door. She hurriedly placed the kettle on the front part of the stove, and busied herself about putting the kitchen in order. This done she hung her blue and white checked apron on a peg back of the door, tidied her hair and went into the living room to look over the mail.
A pile of letters lay upon the table. She took from it a large imposing brown envelope, opened it and read, "Six dollars overdraft." Six dollars had never seemed so much to Jane. With their five years' savings gone and Bobby's shoes having a way of doing the same thing at the wrong time, with winter coming on and only a few buckets of coal left, and groceries?well, to be exact, the cupboard was bare.
"Why all this worry," soliloquized Jane. "Hasn't Mr. Crawford promised John something, even if it isn't just what he would like. We will just have to put our pride behind us. Things are picking up. Everybody says so. The radio is continually announcing big business increases."
With renewed hope, she opened the four remaining envelopes. She lay their contents out carefully before her. One hundred and forty dollars that must be paid. The butcher, the baker, the candlestick maker, only this time it was the doctor, the coal man, the grocer and taxes.
A lusty wail from the bedroom sent her scurrying, to appear again with arms filled with eighteen pounds of real boy, demanding his bottle with repeated yelps. At this very moment a sudden clatter on the porch revealed Bobby's presence.
"Mother, I'm in the team. I'm tackle. We won! We simply mobbed 'em!"
"Well, it looks like they simply mobbed you," for Bob's shirt hung in ribbons. "Oh, Bob, it's the only good shirt you have. Change into the one you took off this morning, son, and then pick a bunch of marigolds for the dinner table. They are so cheerful.
JANE knew by John's attitude as he entered that evening that his day's search had been in vain. He was a tall angular man, slow of speech, kind, gentle, reticent, and generally uncomplaining. He and his father had once been established in the manufacturing of soaps, a business which had been handed down from father to son for four generations.
She greeted him cheerily and proceeded to put the dinner on. He had little to say and ate poorly. Jane hurriedly put the children to bed, and as she tucked the pink coverlet over her baby boy and kissed her tousled-headed Bob, she suddenly remembered the need of a shirt at once. There was no chance of a new one. She hurried to the basement and with much difficulty made her way through Father Harrington's soap equipment and into Grandmother's trunk.
What a shame the factory had to have been closed. If things had gone as planned they would be well cared for, and Father Harrington had tried so hard. Life was like that but reminiscing would not supply a new shirt. She rummaged through the old trunk until she found a percale house dress, with mingled apologies and thanks to dear Grandmother. She returned to the kitchen and with deft fingers fashioned a shirt and the machine was soon humming merrily.
John looked up from his paper with an inquisitive expression. "Well, you haven't asked me how I got on today. I guess you are tired of it, always know the answer ahead of time."
"Not that, dear, just busy. I knew if there were anything important you would tell me."
"There is something important, Jane. I'm desperate. Two years now, with just a day now and then. Our savings are pretty low by now. I have tramped the streets all day. When I ask for work they look as if they would like to knock me down."
"Don't be discouraged, dear. Things are picking up. Only today different radio programs told of big increases in business."
