[Vol25 | January 1938 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: We Resolve]
We Resolve By Myrtle Wentworth
MARGOT stared resentfully; first at the figures in her check book and then at the row of figures she had been juggling back and forth on a sheet of paper. It was no use. No matter what sort of mathematics she used, the result remained inexorably the same. Her account was overdrawn exactly thirty-seven dollars and eighty-two cents and Perry would be dreadfully annoyed. The fact that Christmas, with its attendant expenditures, was in the immediate background would make no difference whatever. She had been given fifty dollars for the holiday "racket", as Perry called it, and had been expected to stay within that amount. She glanced over at the divan where Perry lay peacefully sleeping off the excitement of the New Year's celebration. There was no use asking for a new black lace dinner dress now. The bank statement would be here bright and early in tomorrow's mail and she would get her customary "curtain" lecture and make the usual promises to try and do better in the future. She shrugged her shoulders. Well, there was no need worrying about it. All the figuring in the world couldn't change that balance now, and anyway, Perry was an awfully good sort and would end up by forgiving her with a couple of kisses. She turned the paper over and began amusing herself making some New Year's resolutions. That was the timely thing to be doing and she would make some for Perry too while she was about it.
When she had compiled what she considered an excellent list, she went over to the divan and shook Perry by the shoulders. "Wake up, Lazy," she cried, releasing his shoulders for a more effective grasp of his curly brown locks. He partly opened his eyes and stared at her belligerently. "What for?" He demanded, "Isn't it a holiday and wasn't I up half the night?"
"It is and you were, but that isn't any reason for sleeping all through the day. And by the way, Perry, don't ever again let anyone persuade you to wear a paper cap. Ordinarily you look very intelligent, but?well, paper caps just aren't your style."
"Thanks," yawned Perry, "I'll remember," settling down to slumber again as if the whole matter were closed. But Margot was bent on "high resolve" and was not to be thwarted so easily.
"No, you don't," she cried, seizing the pillow from behind his head. "You are going to wake up and make some New Year's resolutions."
"Let's wait 'till tomorrow."
"No, indeed. 'Never put off 'till tomorrow what you can do today.' I'm glad I thought of that."
"You didn't think of it. Aristotle or Benjamin Franklin or somebody else did."
"I mean I'm glad I thought of adding it to your resolutions."
"My resolutions"? Perry was practically awake by now. "Do you mean to say that you are making New Year's resolutions for me"?
 
"Well?I have some suggestions," Margot admitted. "You may add to them, of course, but I believe that I can give you some extremely good help on the subject."
"Thanks," said Perry, with doubtful enthusiasm, "What about your own?"
"Oh, I have a lovely list made up for myself," Margot answered, her dark eyes sparkling. "Just listen. I resolve to get up one half hour earlier mornings?"
"Hooray," Perry interrupted, adding, "So that my husband will not have to fry his own eggs."
Margot ignored the interruption. "Second?Watch my diet more carefully."
"I trust your resolutions apply to yourself alone."
"Don't be alarmed?they do. You shan't be asked to give up a single piece of pie." Glancing back at her paper, she continued, "To do no more gossiping."
"My dear child, you needn't give up all pleasure. Besides," Perry added irrelevantly, "you're much too pretty to spend your time making resolutions."
"Thanks for the last remark. I'm ignoring the first?I suspect fine irony," and Margot went on, scarcely glancing up from her paper. "To cultivate a more cheerful disposition."
"Good girl," was Perry's enthusiastic comment. "Now, if you'll just add 'To always remember to put the lid back on the toothpaste and not to linger on the telephone when your husband is trying to call you from the office,' we'll say it's an excellent job."
"Done," assented Margot cheerfully. "Now shall we start on yours?"
"I resent your air of 'Now this is really important' and besides, I didn't say that I was making any."
"Oh, but you are. It gives one such a noble feeling to make resolutions. I feel better already. But if you don't want to be bothered, I'll make them and you can keep them." She picked up a clean sheet of paper and started with a flourish, reading each item aloud as she wrote it down.
"First: I resolve to be more careful about letting the dog in the house when Margot has just scrubbed the kitchen floor."
"O. K. And we'll pin a copy up where the dog can see it too."
Margot ignored his facetiousness and went on. "Second: I will not bring anyone home to dinner without phoning about it. At least fifteen minutes in advance."
"But darling?you know I just met?"
"Yes," she interrupted, "I know. You just met Harry Jarvis on the street and he was in town for the day only, and it was three flights by elevator back to the telephone. You've been forgiven for that time and the time before, but remember that for the future, you've resolved to do differently." She drew a deep breath and continued, "I will pick up my own pajamas every morning."
"No fair," shouted Perry, "I have for a week."
"Yes, but I've reminded you."
"Very well, from now on I'm a reformed character. Don't you think that three resolutions are enough at one time?"
"Well," said Margot virtuously, "I made four."
"So you did," assented Perry, picking up her paper. "What's all this?" he asked, as his eye caught the figures on the other side.
"Just my accounts," she answer-
WE RESOLVE
9
ed, reaching for the paper with seeming casualness.
PERRY, who knew from long experience that there was seldom anything very casual about Margot's accounts, hung on to the paper. He stared at the figures for a long time and then asked in steely tones, "Am I right in thinking that you have gone nearly forty dollars over your allowance for last month?"
"I?it looks that way," she admitted in a 'just as well have it out now' tone of voice.
"But didn't we agree?"
