[Vol25 | January 1938 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Guide Lessons | Title: Literature
L]

Literature
LESSON 7
ROMANCE OF AN OLD PLAYHOUSE
IN OUR former lesson, we have seen that from the very beginning the Saints were interested in the drama and that its leaders encouraged its presentation. We also traced the growth of the dramatic spirit among the people in Utah up to the point where President Brigham Young ordered a site to be purchased for the erection of the Salt Lake Theatre.
George D. Pyper says the building of a theatre was not a sudden inspiration but that the decision to build such an edifice became solidified as the President saw the need. He also states that it is only fair to say that John T. Caine and Hiram B. Clawson both urged the project.
At any rate, in July, 1861, excavation for the Old Playhouse began on the corner of First South and State Streets on ground which had been secured from Reynolds Cahoon. Missionaries in the fields of labor were asked to encourage the immigration to Utah of mechanics, artists, and musicians. The author has caused the following passage to be set in italics: "In response to this call there came to Utah many men of unusual capabilities. The wisdom and foresight of Brigham Young found definite expression in the building of the Social Hall, the Bee-Hive House, the Theatre; the famous 'Mormon' Tabernacle, and later the majestic Salt Lake Temple, and in the great love for the arts enjoyed by the people of the intermountain region."
Among the men who were of great importance in building the Old Playhouse, the following are worthy of special mention: William H. Folsom, the architect in charge of the work; Joseph A. Young, superintendent of supplies; William Wolstenholm, foreman of the diggers; Alexander Gillispie, foreman of the eight stonecutters; Henry Grow, foreman of the three millwrights; Joseph Schofield, foreman of the fifteen carpenters. A water-wheel placed in the water ditch furnished the power for hoisting the stone.
"By the time the walls were up," says Hiram B. Clawson, "E. L. T. Harrison, an architect from London, who had been trained in the very best schools, arrived in Utah." This man, working with Architect Folsom, designed much of the interior, patterning it largely after the Drury Lane Theatre in the British Capital. By the time the Theatre was ready for its interior decorations, ox teams had brought George Martin Ottinger, a gifted artist, to the state. The painting of the interior and of the scenery to be used in the Theatre was given into his capable hands.
Mr. Ottinger, assisted by Henry Maiben and William Morris, the latter a decorator from London, painted the scenery for four years. Later the painting work was turned over to Alfred Lambourne.
The following description furnished President Young by the architect, William H. Folsom, will be of interest. "It was commenced July 1, 1861, and completed for temporary use. March 5, 1862. The building is situated on the corner of State Road and First South street. The size of the building on the ground floor is 80 by 144 feet, 40 feet high from the water-table to the square of the building. The roof is self-supporting and hipped all around, with a promenade on top 40 by 90 feet. The south main entrance has an opening of 32 by 20 feet, supported by two Grecian Doric columns. The exterior of the building is Grecian Doric. The auditorium has a parquette and four circles, 60 feet on the outer circle, 37 feet on the inner, and covered with a circular dome in ogee bell form. In the interior, the stage has an opening at the drop curtain of 31 feet front by 28 feet high, and shows 27 feet in flats and 62 feet deep from the footlights, 10 feet proscenium and 40 feet high from stage floor to ceiling. The building is still in progress and will probably be completed the present season."
The author, Mr. Pyper, adds in one of his italicized passages: "You must remember this was eight years before the advent of the Union Pacific Railroad. There were no such things as autos, telephones, gasoline engines, electric power, or any of the agencies that make building easy now-a-days."
Inspiration was shown in the construction of that huge stage. It was so well done that the most elaborate plays of a much later period found plenty of room for their properties and scenic effects.
During the period of the construction of the Theatre, the Civil War began and Johnston's Army was called home. They left in such a hurry that it became necessary for the commanders to dispose of their possessions at extremely low prices. The Old Playhouse became a direct beneficiary. Even the iron from the abandoned army wagons was made into nails with which the historic building was put together. The author has this to say: "Judged from the present period, one would almost be led to believe that Johnston's Army was sent to Utah to assist the Saints in their recreational activities."
Mr. Pyper declares that there was little quibbling over wages among the workmen. "What they did receive was mostly in written promises of future theatre tickets. The experience of Mr. Walter J. Beatie, who afterwards became a son-in-law of Brigham Young, is typical of all who worked on the Old Playhouse. 'I hauled timber all summer,' he says, 'and attended the Theatre all winter, using up the orders received in payment for my work.'"
"When completed the structure stood far above any of its kind in Western America. It was the consummation of a people's desire for the artistic and cultural advantages of life; a monument to the new civilization in the wilderness."
On March 6, 1862, a dedicatory program was given in the Old Playhouse at which President Daniel H. Wells offered the dedicatory prayer and President Young made a speech on the subject, "The Capacity of the Human Body and Mind for Improvement and Development."
"There was nothing lovely in the world," says Mr. Pyper indirectly quoting President Young, "nothing delightful, but the Lord had created it for the good of His children, and it was the abuse, not the proper use of anything that constituted evil. Men could make evil of going to the theatre; they could make evil of anything, but they did not expect to do wrong in going there. Brother Wells, he said, had prayed that the building might crumble to the dust and pass away as if it had never been, sooner than it should fall into the hands of the wicked or be corrupted or polluted; and to that he said, 'amen'."
Other leading brethren made short