[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 244 | Special Feature | Correlation Brings Blessings Thomas | S. Monson]
Correlation Brings Blessings BLESSING NUMBER TWO— The Blessing of the Priesthood: Correlation teaches that the Priesthood is the central power in the Church and the authority through which the Church is administered. It is the means by which members of the Church can participate in saving ordinances. These truths form the thread from which the fabric of your curricula is woven. With our programs being Priesthood centered, and your courses of study correlated with those of the Priesthood and Family Home Evening Program, we eliminate the weakness of a woman or a man standing alone, and substitute, therefor, the strength of husband and wife walking hand in hand together. BLESSING NUMBER THREE— The Blessing of Home Emphasis: The First Presidency has often declared, "The home is the basis for the righteous life, and no other institution can take its place nor fulfill its essential functions." This inspired declaration is held uppermost in the minds and hearts of all who have a part in the preparation of your program. The curricula prepared for adult women open a new vision of the possibilities of a woman as homemaker. It has been said of mothers, "The hand that rocks the cradle is the hand that rules the world." In reality such hands do much more; for mother's hands, mother's heart, and mother's influence guide sons and daughters and assist their father and her husband to gain the cherished goal of exaltation in the kingdom of our Father, to live with him who not only ac- 

245 April 1967

 tually rules the world, but who created it in the first place. Family prayer, Family Home Evenings, coupled with the aid of effective home teaching from inspired and prepared home teachers, can bring the blessings of heaven to our homes here on earth. Such correlated activities teach family members to think of others first and self last. Indeed, we practice in our lives the principles taught by Robert Woodruff, an American business tycoon, and labeled by him as "A Capsule Course in Human Relations." He said: The five most important words in the English language are these: I AM PROUD OF YOU. The four most important words in the English language are these: WHAT IS YOUR OPINION? The three most important words in the language are: IF YOU PLEASE. The two most important words are: THANK YOU. The least important word is: I. BLESSING NUMBER FOUR— The Blessing of Balance: Correlation seeks to eliminate overlap and duplication of effort. All the curricula of the Church are so correlated that we are working together as members of a single team. The personal exaltation of the individual is paramount. Meetings become not an end in themselves, but the means to the desired end. Literature, art, and music are brought together in a way which permits them to complement the teaching of the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And through it all 246 your noble field of compassionate service is not submerged. Rather, it is exalted. In the spirit of the Master you continue to—... Gladden the lonely, the dreary; Comfort the weeping, the weary; Scatter kind deeds on your way; Make the world brighter today! BLESSING NUMBER FIVE— The Blessing of Unity: Closely allied with the blessing of balance is the blessing of unity. Occasionally, destructive competition characterizes the work of our various organizations. Correlation transforms competition to cooperation. We are brought to the realization of the truth, "... If ye are not one ye are not mine" (D&C 38:27). Though our objectives may at times appear unattainable, though the resources of that evil one loom overpowering, and though discouragement threatens, and weaknesses handicap, yet that blessing brought by correlation—even united effort— will bring us the victory we so much seek. We can take strength from the example of Gideon. You will remember how Gideon and his army faced the overwhelming strength of forces vastly superior in equipment and in number. The Holy Bible records that this united enemy, the Midianites and Amalekites, "lay along in the valley like grasshoppers for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand by the sea side for multitude." Fear must have penetrated each heart among Gideon's followers. But their leader went to Almighty God for his strength. To his surprise, Gideon was advised by the Lord that his forces were too many in number for the Lord to deliver the enemy into their hands, lest they say: "Mine own hand hath saved me" (Judges 7:2). Gideon was instructed to proclaim to his people, '""Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return and depart early from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand" (Judges 7:3). But the Lord said, "The people are yet too many..." (Judges 7:4). Through the test of drinking of the water, but three hundred men were selected to remain and fight the enemy. After again praying, Gideon said, "Arise; for the Lord hath delivered into your hand the host of Midian. And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty pitchers and lamps within the pitche
