THE POLITICAL QUESTION. 

	THE Delegates from two great political
parties have assembled in Convention and
formulated their platforms or adopted
resolutions and have declared in favor of
equal rights irrespective of sex. This is
certainly a step in the right direction and
will be a great credit to Utah, and is indeed
an act of justice which must recommend
itself to all fair-minded people. ‘‘So far
so good,” as a party both Republicans and
Democrats have done what they could, and
it remains now for the people to elect such
delegates to the Constitutional Convention
as will carry out the principles of justice
and equality. It will ever be a matter of
congratulation if the new Constitution
shall be so near perfect that it will not re-
quire amendments during the first Legisla-
tures that will meet.
	The two platforms are before the people
and certainly both parties have been honor-
able in declaring their principles and the
people both men and women can judge for
themselves of the facts as presented in the
Resolutions adopted. They are so clear
and well-defined that one can scarcely plead
ignorance in regard to points of difference
between the two parties. All these things
are educational and certainly the women of
the Territory will take an interest in the
study of the political question, and be care-
ful to note the distinctive differences that
are so apparent when one looks into the
subject deeply.
	The great fundamental principles of
government, however, should be carefully
studied and those who anticipate having
the franchise should arm themselves well
with this knowledge and not come ignorant-
ly into possession of the boon, so ardently
desired and so eagerly sought for. There
will be many important and serious
questions to be discussed that concern wo-
men as well as men; and perhaps the first
great subject to which the attention of wo-
men will be called will be that of education,
and study beforehand will be a great ad-
vantage. In the Associations throughout
the Territory this matter should be con-
sidered, and acted upon so that correct in-
formation may be obtained. There are
some departments of public interest relating
to a great commonwealth which come
more directly in the line of woman’s
province than others. Education, public
charities and such institutions as relate
more or less there to, sanitation and public
health, moral and other great reforms, etc.

[Column 2] 
Women have thought much upon these
matters but heretofore they have had small
opportunity to use any but silent influence.
If perchance Utah comes into the union of
states with equal suffrage as now seems so
likely to transpire, (and the woman of the
Territory should certainly work on the af-
firmative) they should make every exertion
to qualify themselves to be useful and
active in the exercise of every right and
privilege with which statehood will invest
them. Meantime they should not sleep,
but be awake to the grave issues and
emergences of the time and avail them-
selves of every opportunity to exert an in-
fluence in the direction of positive good, in
the interest of all that relates to the future
welfare, and betterment of the condition of
the people, who are to be the happy posses-
sors of the greater freedom, that comes
with increased responsibility and an exten-
sion of privileges.


