EQUAL RIGHTS.
	ONCE more this important subject pre-
sents itself before us. This question has
received great attention of late, and now
that fair Utah is just entering statehood,
let us be sure that she does not leave her
women behind.
	History tells us that in many cases, wo-
man has been regarded as inferior to man.
Why should this be? Are we not all God’s
children? We learn from the Bible that
God created woman to be a help-meet for
man; and does it look reasonable to think,
that He would create her an inferior being?
It is more likely that He would make an
improvement on His labors, rather than not
the equal. But of course, we do not claim
to be any better than they, but equally as
good. We do not wish to overstep our
bounds in the least, but desire to become
only that which God designed us to be.
We only ask for a voice in that which con-
cerns us and claim the right of political
as well as religious freedom.
	Who could call the law a just one, that
entitles one half of the community to en-
joy privileges that the other half cannot?
	We all admit that man stands at the head
and woman should not rule over him,
neither should he trample her under his
feet. In one of our American cities, a
short time ago, an address had been de-
livered one evening, by one of the well
versed women of the place one of the
listeners, a gentleman on his return home
was met by a friend who said, “Who was
your speaker to-night?” He replied in a
sneering tone, “only a woman,” while at
the same time we might ask, “what is his
mother?” and “what is his wife?” This
with many instances proves how lightly the
abilities of woman are spoken of at times.
If the franchise was restored, what true wo-
man would cast her vote in favor of a
dealer in the demon—Alcohol? In many
cases we find her tied to a drunkard, who
staggers to the Polls to vote, while she (no
matter how intelligent she may be) is com-
pelled to stay at home. Is this right? No,
there is no justice about it, for those who
are ruled by law should surely have a voice
in what the law shall be, and who shall be
the law-makers.
	If we assist in bearing the responsibilities
of the government, we certainly should
have our share of its privileges. How
much better it would be if Utah could be-

[Column 2]
come a prohibition State, then this great
waste of money could be used for the ele-
vation instead of the degradation of man-
kind. It is hoped that there will soon be a
reformation in this respect. Some women
say they have all the rights they want but
none of us should entertain such a false idea
as this, for God never designed us to spend
all our lives in the kitchen but that we
should study and become intelligent beings,
continually using our influence for the pro-
motion of our fellow-man. It is now time
that the chains of bondage were broken,
and let us ask ourselves the question; if the
victory is won, are we prepared to bear the
responsibilities that will develop upon us?
As we all know we are living in an age of
progress, and let us make a study of the
Suffrage subject for there is no "excellence
without labor." So let us prove by our
actions that we do not enjoy “taxation
without representation” and may we my
fellow suffragists not cease now the goal is
almost in sight, but may the flames of free-
dom and equality continue to burn in our
bosoms, until we gain that for which we
are now earnestly laboring—Equal Rights.
May God grant this to be our happy lot.
ALICE GUNN.
Adamsville, Utah.


