Unknowing of its cause of agony.
But she in these fond feelings had no share:
Her sighs were not for him, to her he was
Even as a brother—but no more; ’twas much,
For brotherless she was, save in the name
Her infant friendship had bestow’d on him;
Herself the solitary scion left
Of a time-honor’d race.”

	This was almost literally true in the case
of Robert Harrison. He confessed to Mrs.
Bland that he had no assurance of the love
of Clarice Courtney he had loved her as an
object enshrined, too good and pure to be
like other mortals, and when Sir Edward
Hilliard was accepted by her, he had
stormed and raged like one bereft of reason
and nearly broken his mother’s heart.
Afterwards they went abroad and there in
a foreign land his mother died; these two
great sorrows had so embittered his life
that, he had never really cared to mark out
any future, and no woman had ever
awakened an emotion of love in him from
that time until he saw his cousin’s daugh-
ter in the ball room in London, and it took
him back to the days of his boyhood. He

[Column 2]
recounted to Mrs. Bland many incidents of
his early life, but in it all she could not
discern in the least any return of his un-
bounded affection from the cousin whom
he so passionately adored, recompense for
the supreme affection he lavished upon her,
it was the ideal fancy of a boy for a mature
woman; yet she did not express her feel-
ings lest it might wound him, she waited
to see what he would say to her.
	“And now my story is told I have laid
bare my heart to you concealing nothing,”
said he. “What have you to say to me.”
You know, “for quickly comes such know-
ledge,” that I loved you from the first with
a devotion founded upon principle, I saw
your superiority to other women, even to
Lady Anna, I noted your strength of
character, your integrity to the family of
your kinsman, I heard you spoken of too, by
men, men of rank in the world, during that
London season, men who look below the
surface of things; and again and again your
uncle’s solicitors in London eminent barris-
ters, when Clair was with me and we were
arranging his affairs declared they had
never seen a girl like that Miss Conway—
such capacity, such judgment, such execu-
tive ability, they were astonished that you
had not been left equal in the will with his
own daughter. You have the Hilliard
character inherited from your mother, and
though I hated Sir Edward for carrying off
my cousin, yet from what I know of Eng-
lish history I am forced to acknowledge that
with all his faults, he had good blood in his
veins, the best blood of British lions: and I
forgive him now after all these years of
bitterness, and regret my estrangement
from the family, and most of all because
perhaps I might have saved from such a
fate my sweet cousin Anna, her mother’s
sacrifice and then hers, I cannot understand
it.”
	Mrs. Bland had listened to her lover (for
such he really was) while he told the story
she so longed yet dreaded to hear, and now
what answer must she give; she was al-
ready his in fact, if her own heart was the
criterion, she believed his love was honest,
she felt how lonely her life would be if she
should send him away; his arm encircled
her waist, her hand was clasped with tender
manliness, and he repeated the question so
often asked before, “And what have you
to say to me, will you be mine, my wife,
mine forever, to love, to cherish, to protect!”
And still Jane Bland hesitated, “What
more can I say, the devotion of my life,
what still remains, I know I am many
years your senior, but here in this new land,
I will begin a new career, I feel fresh im-
pulses for action, a great future awaits the
people who have settled here, they will
throw off the bondage of the mother coun-
try which oppresses them, there are men
ready to stand on a higher platform, you,
yourself know it, Sidney who has mingled
so much with the common people is aware
that, the sentiment of the country is under-
going a change, it will be a struggle, but it
will end in victory, it will give men of
brains, men of nerve an impetus unheard
of, will you share your fate with mine


