[Column 1]
		LADIES’ MEETING.
Minutes of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, Aug.
11th 1894. President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing, “Wel-
come best of all good meetings,” etc.
Prayer Sister Wilcox. Continued singing,
“For the strength of the hills” etc. Min-
utes of previous meeting read and approved.
President Horne said, “I believe it is cus-
tomary, if there is business to present, to
attend to that before proceeding with the
meeting. We desire to have our excursion
well advertised, we consider it a good and
worthy cause and think it should be well
patronized. Officers will please come for-
ward and take tickets. I have been in-
formed that there is a falling off in the num-
ber of Sisters who should be in attendance
at the Temple Saturday, this should not be,
sisters please take notice and be on hand
that there may be plenty of help. We
must work unitedly or we will be found in
the same position that the people of Babylon
were. We must be making a move toward
storing up wheat, grain will probably be
cheap this fall. We must take the warn-
ing given.”
	Sister Zina, “My dear sisters I greet all
most heartily, consider all hands shaken.
I have been absent from you for some time
but am always with you in spirit. Would
have been here sooner, but for the strike.
On arriving in Canada, found Brother
Dougall very ill. Thanks to our Heavenly
Father, through our faith and prayers in
his behalf, he has been restored to health,
the children of the Primary prayed for him,
their prayers were answered almost im-
mediately. Dominion day in Canada is al-
most the same as our fourth of July, I
heard a Senator there say, that our people
had accomplished more in three years, than
any others had in a much longer time.
The sisters meetings in Alberta and Moun-
tain View, were well attended, the saints
are filled with the spirit of the Lord, I
never attended better meetings in my life.
On one occasion my daughter said she felt
like giving the Bishop’s wife a blessing,
she spoke in tongues and gave her the very
blessing she had desired. The Young
Ladies have excellent meetings; at the
Fair a straw hat was given to my daughter
and with the exception of a little piece of
velvet, it was entirely home made; they
have made many articles of clothing; our
people held their first conference while we

[Column 2]
were there, at the last meeting of the Young
Ladies that I attended, they requested me
to address them, some of them greatly
desired to hear me speak in tongues having
never heard the gift. At the close of the
meeting I was called upon to dismiss, I
then spoke in tongues, I heard after that
girls had fasted and prayed, that I might
speak to them in tongues, their prayers
were answered, it was a testimony to them,
that the Lord does hear and answer prayers;
I am very much interested in this home in-
dustry movement; if I had means I would
send for a knitting machine and teach a
class of girls to knit. I feel the Lord is
well pleased with the labors of his hand-
maids, may the Lord add his blessing.”
	Sister Susan Grant “I am pleased to have
our stake join with you in this enterprise,
we can all see how much better it would
have been for us if we had taken the coun-
sel given years ago, but it is never to late to
mend, though late the Lord will accept of
our work. I think it would be well to
have notices sent to the Bishops, regarding
the store I don’t believe they fully under-
stand the motives of this enterprise; we
should be alive to the importance of our
work “The harvest is ripe and the reapers
are few.” We should place our whole de-
pendence on the Lord. When troubles
come we can call on Him for help, if we
are living as he desires us. Am glad to
hear of the blessing of faith being poured
out upon the saints in far off Canada, I
pray the Lord may bless all interested in
this work where ever they may be.’
	Sister Lula Greene Richards, “I am
sure all are delighted with the report of the
saints in Canada, they are filled with the
same spirit, enjoyed in the Temple here.
Brother Woodruff said the whole world
would be diffused with it, we all should try
to think of something to further the cause;
not be as the slothful servant that has to be
called. I shall, try to awaken an interest in
our Ward, we should follow the examples
of our mothers, think how they worked, if
we were as persevering we could accomplish
much more having greater facilities than
they had. I pray we may all be faithful
that we may secure our crowns.”
	Sister C. C. R. Wells, “I realize the set
time has come to favor our store. I knew
all the time the Lord had inspired the
movement, any sister that can make articles
of clothing send us samples of work, if
creditable have them in the store, take
stock by the sale of them, its only a ques-
tion of time when people will be compelled
to buy these things. Look and see what is
called for, make those articles. Some make
nice little hoods and shoes, bring them to
us, we want to prepare to help the poor,
that may come to us. We want to invite
people to come and see us, when stocked
with home-made articles, we can’t expect
to do anything without some labor, we hear
so much about hard times; if no other train
should ever come into Salt Lake, we are
still much better off than the Pioneers, they
studied, made over and thought of every
possible way to get along, let us all try and
think of something we can do to help in
the good work, etc.”
	Sister Margaret Caine, “It is impossible
for me to express my feelings of thankful-
ness and gratitude, I throughly ap-
preciate being again in the midst of friends,
I trust all my labors while absent have
not been in vain, many whom I have met
are very much interested in us, and desire
to investigate, people begin to see how use-

[Column 3]
less money is unless invested in benefiting
others; barriers are being broken down, it
is the Lord’s will that we build each other
up, my feelings have ever been in favor of
home manufactures. Always in my house-
keeping, I made it a point to use home-made
articles when able to get them. Let us ex-
port as well as import. I have disposed of
several thousand copies of the EXPONENT.
Have had the greatest compliments paid it.
One gentleman, who was a tourist and a
traveler, said he had never read a paper
where such pure thoughts and principles
were written. It has been published longer
than any othe lradies paper in the West; if
we can afford to take more than one for our-
selves, do so and send it to others. At one
time there was quite a large branch of our
Church in California, there are now only
about twenty-five or thirty members,”
made other good remarks.
	Sister Lucy B. Young was happy to hear
the remarks made by the sisters, was one
with them, said she was happy in early days
didn’t call it hard times, one would feel proud
to wear homemade all the time, the sisters
from the Sandwich Islands make beautiful
hats, it would be a good idea to get them to
take hold of the straw work”
President Horne in closing said she be-
lieved the spirit of building up home in-
stitutions was increasing. All seemed
more interested than usual, hoped they
would continue, and the Lord would bless
their efforts. Sang Doxology. Benedic-
tion Sister E. S. Taylor.
