FROM THE WOMAN’S JOURNAL.
	THE most insistent claim made in defense of the
present political subjection of women by the
rulers who wish this subjection to be perpetuated
is that all the interests of women are fully pro-
tected under masculine rule. A recent decision
of the Supreme Court of Iowa strikingly illus-
trates the absurdity of such a pretense. A
married woman of Manson, Ia., Mrs. Hall, hav-
ing fallen into a water main (carelessly left open
by municipal employees), and having, thereby,
sustained serious injuries, which incapacitated
her for work, sued the town for damages, and
received a verdict in her favor from the hurty,
awarding her $3,000. The town authorities ap-
pealed from the District Court’s decision, and
their appeal was sustained by the judge of the
Supreme Court on the following assumption: A
married woman being a "mere housewife" for her
husband, and he being bound for her support,
her earnings belong to him, and any loss of time
occasioned by the wife’s injury is solely his loss;
therefore, the husband only can recover damages,
and the wife’s claim is not valid, as the time lost
is not her time! Mrs. Ellen B. Dietrick, in the
Twentieth Cnntury, says:

	This remarkable decision (rendered in June of
the present year) places the wife in that Asiatic
category which speaks of a man’s wife, and his
ox, and his ass, or anything which is his. It deals
with the wife as a chattel, not even possessing the
measure of individuality conceded to the average
modern man-servant or maid-servant. It de-
grades housekeeping below the level of all self-
supporting occupations, for the "mere housewife"
is not credited with earnings even her own sup-
port! It reeks of the ignorance of the days of
barbaric despotism, when parents sold their boys
for one purpose and their girls for another; or, of
the days of savagery, when captives became their
captor’s property, male captives being broken to
one form of yoke, female captives to another.
Behold how far the rights of woman have traveled
in the year of our Lord, 1894, in a land which
wishes to be considered as Christian!


