FEMININE HINTS.

	THE house wife has been employed all
the summer long with her arduous but
satisfying labor of preparing fruit for the
winter months and now with what a
pleasure she points to her shelves filled with
bottles of fresh berries and fruits her jars of
rich preserves, her glasses of clear, delicious
jelly, perhaps though it is not yet too late
to publish a receipt for a catsup very highly
praised and pickles very sweet to taste.
	TOMATO CATSUP:—Take one bushel or
six pounds of nice ripe tomatoes, boil and
strain through a sieve. Take two quarts
of good vinegar, two ounces of allspice,
two ounces of blackpepper, two ounces of
mustard, one ounce of cloves one ounce of
cinnamon two grated nut megs, two pounds
of sugar and one pint of salt, mix all well
together and turn into the tomato juice,
let the whole boil four or five hours or un-
til it becomes thick, then pour in bottles or
jars and tightly cork.
	SWEET-PICKLE PEACHES:—Eight pounds
of fruit, four pounds of sugar one pint of
vinegar one ounce each of allspice, cloves
and cinnamon. Scald the syrup, peel the
peaches and drop in scalding syrup, boil
until soft enough to push a straw through
them, then take out and place in jar, allow
to cool when the boiling syrup is poured
over them, tie the spices in clean white bags
and boil all the time with syrup, stick three
or four cloves in each peach. Every other
day for the first week boil the syrup for
half an hour and pour back hot over the
fruit, then tie down securely with a cloth
wet in brandy over the top of the fruit.
	DRESS:—The colors though subdued
were never richer than this fall and the
bright autumn tints interwoven in a ground
of black, seal brown, dark gray, navy blue,


or some deep color give a very rich effect.
Whether the country generally is benefitted
or not the woman with a meager purse will
be delighted to know that she can buy her
a lovely winter gown for half the price she
paid last year, and her silks and woolens
will all be much cheaper. The becoming
and comfortable suit so much in vogue dur-
ing the summer still holds its own for fall
and winter wear, the round skirt the blouse
or shirt waist and the over jacket, only the
waist is made of darker and warmer
material. Probably this is due to the fancy
the feminine heart has always held for the
belt with its pretty buckles. These, the
buckles are as fashionable as ever only as
the season advances, the buckle becomes
larger and the designs are quite elaborate.
Coral and amber buckles are also mnch
worn and it is said that amber will soon re-
place the ivory, silver and porcelain for
ladies toilet articles.


