A REVERIE.

	AUTUMN:—Named by the poets as the
melancholy season and ever thought of as
the saddest, because the winds at night
sing their mournful songs and as they mur-
mur through the forests and the glens, they
blow the crimson and golden leaves to the
earth below them, and the song of the
autumn wind, and the rustle of the dying
leaves fill the soul with longings that no
other season brings. In the sweet gloom
of the September days the heart is full, not
so much of hope for the coming days as
memories, sweet memories of the past.
How thick and fast they crowd upon one,
the joys, the sorrows, the laughter, the
tears all intertwine into one sweet memory
chain. The rivers are clearer and more
sparkling; the mountains gleam with the
glorious tints that the early frost and the
heavy dews impart to the foliage of the
maple and the oak, mingled with the deeper
greens of the graceful pines; the great sun
casts shadows and flames through the
evening mist imparting the deepest purples
to the eastern hills, the ruddiest and brightest
golds and crimsons to the western skies and
all combined fill the soul with rapture,
poetry and love.


FLOWERS:—How few they are and yet
how beautiful as one traverses the rich and
well kept garden and notes with a sigh the
fading leaves of the rose, the carnation and
the pansy, she may also smile at the tender,
sweet elysium that has remained so true
through the long summer and still blossoms
and sends forth its fragrance with the
autumn winds; at the pretty aster with its
many colored blossoms, at the red and white
and purple berries nestling among the
glorious leaves of the honey-suckle and
wood-bine; at the stately dahlia in its rich
deep colors presiding like a queen over the
Autumn garden at the beautiful
crysanthemum, with her large lovely blos-
soms, cheering and comforting and atoning
for summer’s flowers lost.
	MUSIC:—A man once said that nature
had given less to music than any of the
arts. I wonder if he ever wandered
through a forest in the autumn time when
the leaves whispered their good-byes as
they swung and swayed through the mel-
low air in their falling to the ground; if he
ever heard the birds as they bade farewell
to their summer nests and flocking together
by the hundreds gave their glorious final
chorus before migrating to the south. If
he ever heard the soughing wind through
the leafless branches murmuring its
œolian tones. Why the world is full of
music in the autumn, nature’s world at
least, yes music, poetry and art, whose is
the soul that does not throb the quicker,
the heart that does not beat the faster, the
mind that does not think the deeper, in the
rich and glorious Autumn time.


