A PLEASANT EVENING.

Editor Exponent:
	AN informal reception was tendered last
night to our visiting sisters, Aunt Zina, as
we love to call her, and Sister E. B. Wells,
at the residence of W. G. Bickley. The
genial Professor and his worthy wife went
around and invited all the officers of the
Relief Society and some others to meet
these honored ladies at his house.
	About twenty-five people came together
and the evening passed very pleasantly
with songs, music, recitations and old time
reminiscences. Professor Bickley favored
the company with instrumental music, also
a song. Mrs. C. D. White gave, in good
style, a recitation entitled, “Hannah Jane
and I.” Another song from Brother Bickley
was followed by the stirring recitation of
“The Battle of Bunker Hill" by Mrs. Mary
E. Carter. Uncle Daniel Tyler sang, “The
Mobbers of Missouri,” after which Mrs.
Mary E. Lightner gave a thrilling recital of
some of the scenes she had passed through
during the persecutions of the Saints in
Missouri. One of these incidents occured
during the destruction of the Printing
Office in Independence Mo. She and her
sister seized each an armful of manuscript
revelations and ran and hid themselves in a
cornfield with the mob close at their heels
swearing they would shoot them. The two
girls escaped, however, with their prize and
afterward the rescued Mss. were
printed in book form one of which was
presented to Sister Lightner. Sister Wells,
in her bright, entertaining manner, related
incidents of her sojourn in Chicago, during
the World’s Fair. Also gave interesting
items of the different Congresses held at
that time. The trend of all these Con-
gresses was in favor of equality of the sexes.
	Aunt Zina talked in her loving motherly
way, showing that all the benefits we had
received from our showing at the World’s
Fair, came by the blessing of God and
through our organization of the Relief
Society.
	Brother Bickley sang a comic song. Mrs
L. Jones recited a short piece entitled.
“Linger not.” All sang that matchless
hymn, “O, My Father,” and after benedic-
tion, dispersed to their homes feeling that
they had indeed enjoyed a “feast of reason
and a flow of soul.” L. J.
	Beaver, Sep. 15, 1894.


