MRS. AGUSTUS HEMENWAY HON. PRES.
	THE Home Department will have merit
of an unusual kind and must be judged by
other than a merely exhibitional standard.
	It will be in the main a study of Domes-
tic Science and of Household Econony,
both of which are of great importance to
the National welfare.
	I have visited as a careful observer among
the industrial classes, in cities, towns and
manufacturing villages, and have studied
the conditions, tendencies, dangers, and
opportunities of these classes and the duty
towards them of the educated and the
wealthy, who have combined with me to
show during the days of October, work full
of testimony as well as theory, in the
Home Department of the Worlds Food
Fair 1894.
	The work will prove that these ladies are
more than mere observors, having drawn
large inferences, they will offer through the
best of engaged talent, remedial agencies
and appliances, to meet the real conditions
of house and society, elevating the tone of
both private and public life.
	The wide prevalence of haphazard
methods, and the general ignorance in re-
gard to proper ways of cooking and com-
bining articles of food to get the best as-
similation, is alarming, and jeopardizing
the fundamental interests of the State, and
the best development of the whole race,
unless a higher intelligence and more
rational methods are diffused.
	The formation of the Home Department
in connection with the World’s Food Fair
gives a wonderful opportunity for the
presentation of scientific facts in aid to
others less enlightened, to direct and help
them into more rational ways of living and
thinking. This work is made possible by
the allotment of space and the generous
financial support of the Board of Manag-
ment of the Fair, who will thus help to
spread a constant intellectual feast for all
who are interested in these vital subjects,
and who is not at least three times a day?
	We can only mention specimens of the
feature of the work. It will cover con-
densedly a large and varied field, dealing
with Home topics in the true spirit of high
moral aim united to sober study of facts.
Aiming to be lucid and simple, the work
of the department cannot fail to do good
service in at least stimulating suggestive
thought.
	A condition of pleasantness in the house
is a real power in refining and raising the
character of the inmates. Ugliness and
discomfort blunts the sensibilities, low-
ers the spirits, destroys and vitiates the
appetites.
	One suite of rooms will be under the
auspices of the Household Economic Ass.
of which Mrs. Augustus Hemenway is
Honorary President, and Mrs. Minerva B.
Tobey, Acting President, she being also
Vice President of the National Association
for Massachusetts. These rooms well il-
lustrate a Sanitary Bedroom and Bathroom.
	Our present sanitary ideas are reforming
the fittings and care of the sleeping apart-
ments, and the dealers keep pace with the
demands of the scientiest, from whisk
brooms, soaps and powders to sanitary floor
finish and furnishings. These subjects
will be presented and discussed by Mrs.
Tobey, in the lecture room.

[Column 2]
	The best authorities will likewise discuss
and give illustrations of hygienic, economic,
and vegetarian meals in a room set apart
for Hygienic and Economic features. The
table of costs and restrictive  values being
presented at the same time to show that
the grocer is not a secondary factor to the
butcher in furnishing table supplies.
	Mrs Susanna W. Dodds M. D. and Dean
of the Hygienic College of St. Louis will
visit Boston during the month to take an
active interest in this department. She
will add greatly to the value of the
Hygienic Feature.
	The Library will contain works on
architecture in its relation to Sanitation,
Cook Books, Health and Hygienic Litera-
ture, as well as current magazines bearing
upon the Home questions, such as the New
England Kitchen Magazine, Household
News, Table Talk, Food, Home, and
Garden, and others.
	A few days and evenings will have
national names, and be observed accordingly,
distinguished guests of those countries be-
ing present.
	The lecture room in the midst of the
latest conveniences for the scientific and
easy preparations of foods will after all be
the attractive spot for many, there some of
the best talent will daily demonstrate and
lecture upon cooking from 10-30 to 12 a. m.
	Mr. Nankanura will deliver a short lec-
ture in the lecture room which will be
beautifully illustrated by choicely colored
lantern slides. On this occasion he will
show us the interiors of their homes,
especially the culinary and feasting rooms,
interspersed among views of their gardens,
etc. A reception will be given to the
representatives of Japan visiting us. Miss
Shidsu Mori now attending Radcliffe Col-
lege will be among the honored guests.
	Lovers of beautiful things may find
most beautiful Russian Cottage Industries
goods for their home tables, examples of
the weavers skill, so delicate that even
fairy spinners might envy the gossamer
texture.
	These Industries were founded by
Princess M. Schahovskoy and her friend
Mme Pogosky. These ladies are at present
travelling through Russia collecting but
will return bringing with them many
articles for October and the exhibition.
Mme Pogosky’s daughter will assist in her
native costume, her head bound with a
scarlet fillet, hair tightly braided in a single
plait, and her neck encircled with string
after string of multicolored beads.
	Mme Eugenie Lineff, Musical Director of
the Imperial Opera in Moscow, will be
present also on the day when Russian Home
Costumes are shown.
	Princess M. Schahovskoy and Mme
Pogosky were associate judges with me at
the World’s Fair on the jury of experts.
A reception will be given these ladies, and
to specially invited guests. Russian Tea
will be served after which the audience
will be entertained in the lecture room by
Mme Lineff assisted by the Russian Choir,
giving some of the most characteristic
Russian music, followed by tableaux or
living pictures in the Russian costumes
and customs. Other nations will through
distinguished representatives make in-
structive and pleasant special days.
	A few evenings will be given to
Stereoptican lectures, illustrating sanitary
facts. We are to have a lecture by Mrs.
Tobey showing the plans of Mrs. Stuckarts
forty-four co-operative homes now building


in Hyde Park, Chicago. A large force of
earnest workers are busily engaged, as they 
have been for months to prepare this con-
tinuous treat to the public in connection
with the many attractions of the different
exhibitors. The work is most ably sus-
tained by the Honorary Board and will be
skillfully helped along by the lectures and
others on its corps of workers.
	The names are of well assured reputation,
and exact knowledge. Among them are
Mrs. D. A. Lincoln of Boston Cook Book
fame. Miss Anna Barrows, Prin. of the
school of Domestic Science for the Y. W.
C. A. Miss Carrie Dearborn,late Principal
and now Instructor in Physiology in the
Boston Cooking School. Miss M. A.
Boland of John Hopkins University and
Author of Invalid Cookery. Mrs. Minerva
B. Tobey on Home Sanitation, and Susan
W. Dodds on Hygiene.
	Mrs. Carrie M. Dearborn will be in charge
of the Artistic display of cooked foods.
	Miss Elizabeth B. Sheldon, a graduate of
our Art Museum, daughter of Judge Shel-
don of New Haven Connecticut, will be
the decorater of the rooms. Her work at
the World's Fair was beautiful and very
much remarked.
	Miss Lucy Page Stelle will be in charge
of the Library.
	Helena M. Richardson, Secretary of the
Department.
	Address—Washington Ave,
		Winthrop, Mass. 
