			U. W. P. C.

	IT is a most difficult thing to put this
subject into such shape as to make it pre-
sentable to a club of ladies of varied
opinions and views, and therefore perhaps
the best method is to give a few facts.
There are many newspapers and journals
where the writer of articles and even one
employed in editorial work is not allowed
to sign his name or even a nom de plume;
to give all the reasons why not, would be
to go too much into detail. 
	In Boston considered the Athens of
America, for instance, one of the most re-
presentative papers the Boston Globe has
given large liberty in that respect, while
the Boston Herald just as representative
and as widely circulated gives no encourage-
ment of this sort whatever; there is in my
opinion two sides to the question and the
utmost need of discrimination; there are in
this city even restrictions in this regard
and they seem very proper on a daily
paper—the Chief Editor is answerable when
articles are not signed, and in many cases
that is better; if one is indignant at an
article, the chief of the establishment, must
answer for it, and his very position holds
him above petty annoyances; unless in a
very aggravated case, when suit for libel
would be brought against the paper itself.
In most ordinary cases of write ups and
interviews the person would not wish his
name attached, unless it were some very
celebrated or renowned personage, then
vanity might prompt the signing of one’s
name. In politics it would be sometimes
very indiscreet, not to say unpopular to
sign one’s name, and in the case of verses,
it would very often be wiser not to subject
one’s self to the unfavorable criticisms that
are frequently indulged in by the writing
fraternity, of each others effusions. For-
merly I was greatly in favor of pen names
but experience has led me to think of late
years, that one’s own name is better. And
my advice to all young writers is, use your
own name or at least your initials instead of

[column 2]
something fictitious, and yet even in this
matter there might be some exceptions
made. A very able man and one of many
years journalistic experience says, that the
idea that a writer is profited in his own
community by asing a nom de plume, and
that in order to gain reputation a pen name
must be used until the people demand the
real name of the author is on the decline.
“And he adds the actual real signature to
every production has its significance and
carries with it unquestioned worth, with-
out any exception whatever.” Had I time
I could give many facts to substantiate these
ideas.
	Speaking however, more particularly of
what we in our Utah Woman’s Press Club
want to know, perhaps one should give a
few actual names and the pen name. It
may be that was what was intended, it is
so long ago since the program committee
assigned this matter to one of our younger
members who never responded, that the
real idea is lost, and I was absent when the
subject was allotted to me, so if I fall short
of the demand I beg to be excused—but
will give you an item or two about women
who have gained fame and renown by using
the names of men;—but the idea probably
originated in the fact, that women as wri-
ters were looked down upon, called blue
stockings and considered almost unfeminine,
at any rate not fit for wives or mothers, and
often thought or considered immoral. That
excuse is not valid now.
	Ever since George Sand made herself so
celebrated by using a man’s name it seems
to have been a fad by many others, inferior
in point of ability, although George Eliott
surpassed her certainly in depth of senti-
ment and philosophy, it has often been said
that these two famous writers would never
have reached the zemith of fame attained
by them, had they not taken a man’s name.
	We in this era of woman would scarcely
be more willing to hazard a literary reputa-
tion on the name of a man, than that of a
woman, though we might perhaps use a
fictitious signature for reasons.
	Olive Schreiner whose story of an Afri-
can Farm created quite a sensation among
literary people, used a man’s name Ralph
Iron, but now that she is married her hus-
band it is said takes her real name instead
of her taking his, though recently I saw
both names used. Marie Correlli whose
books are the fashion now-a-days in many
circles, because they break new ground
and treat of the unseen,or pyschological sub-
jects mostly, or the occult, uses a name
which suggests a French or Italian woman
although she is said to be Irish and a sister
of the famous Irish writer Eric MacKaye.
Mme. Higgins Glenerne whose real name is
Lida Lewis Watson, she writes for the
Boston Globe and New York Mercury, has
published a volume of poems of which the
title is ‘'UNREST.’’ Aunt Fanny who writes
books for children is Mrs. Frances Eliza-
beth (Mease) Barrow, she also wrote for
the New York Ledger, Mrs. Mary Cahill
who uses the nom de plume of Marie
Walsh is author of Hazel Kirke and other
similar tales. Drock pseudonym of Robert
Bridges, assistant editor of Book Reviews
in “Life” and Scribner Magazines.
	We all remember the inspiring genius of
Fanny Fern, the sister of N. P. Willis the
poet, who had such a wonderful literary
reputation, and a most romantic life. She
kept the secret of her real name many
years, until she had earned a competency
by means of her pen.


Mary J. Holmes on the contrary has
always used her real name, and has also
earned money, and is a favorite story teller.
	George Eliott had the satisfaction (if
such it be) of having her work favorably
commented upon by the great men of the
day, as the work of a man of brains and
of uncommon talent, as well as sublime
reasoning in untrodden ways,
	Grace Greenwood (Mrs. Lippincott) is a
familiar nom de plume to us and also 
Marian Harland, (Mrs. E. R. Terhune)
but some others we read of and do not
know what the real name may be, or indeed
if the name is a real or imaginary one;
coming home to our own Utah—we have
several writers who are much better known
by the pen name than by their own, Ruby
Lamont, Millicent, Hope, Homespun,
Hyacinth and a long list for a new country.
These are all women, but we also have
men who use a nom de plnme.
	When in San Francisco as a Delegate to
the Convention of the National Editorial
Association, I heard some discussion upon
this subject, both in reference to poets and
newspaper people. One lady who is em-
ployed a reporter on a Chicago paper whose
editor did not permit those employed by
the office to use signatures, stated that hav-
ing strong perferences in favor of using her
own name, and being desirous of building
up a reputation as a writer of some merit,
she persisted in signing her name to all her
articles, which for many months was as
persistently left out, though nothing was
said; finally the chief editor being absent
for some time, the signature attached was
used without comment, when the editor re-
turned she fully expected according to her
own account to get the “grand bounce”
but on the contrary nothing was said and
her name was allowed to appear.
	One other case was of Elizabeth Akers
Allen (whose daughter related the story to
me,) and who is famous all the world over
for her beautiful poems, and especially for
the one song sung in our own and other
lands, “Rock me to sleep mother,” when
a young girl she used the nom de plume,
Florence Percy and other signatures and
afterwards when she tried to collect her
poems for publication she found great diffi-
culty in securing them and some she never
succeeded in getting, consequently she ad-
vises all young writers to use the real name;
and, now let us come down to the reality of
our own club here at home, and be what
we are in and of ourselves, original as far
as possible, without affectation and without
imitation except in so far as we must con-
form to certain rules and observances, but
not be afraid of re-writing and polishing,
or fear that it will kill the spirit, for the
same rule will assurredly apply in writing
as the inspired prophet of old declared,
when He said the spirit of the prophets, is
subject to the prophets—and the world of
 mankind agree that poets are inspired, and
it matters not whether the poet be a man or
a woman—for we know of old, women were
inspired to lead, to sing, to judge, instance
the song of Deborah etc, and we have had
in our time, our inspired poet and prophet-
ess, and leader in modern Israel, Eliza R.
Snow whose name and fame are immortal-
ized.					E. B. W.


