HOW IT FEELS TO BE A VOTER.

	TWO women were judges of election in
one precinct, and one in another. One
daily paper mentioned the fact and the ladies
names, and said, “they took their knitting
with them and had a real good time.” I
will mention an incident and leave you to
judge whether or not our women are going
to take the trouble to vote. A lady, “one
of our fellow-citizens,” but neither young
nor active, presented herself at the polls to
vote and was informed that it was necessary
in the case that she should produce a tax
receipt for the year 1893, before she could
vote. She said the receipt was in her hus-
band’s possession, and he was not at home.
The judges told her she could have a dupli-
cate receipt if she would go to the Court
House for it. The Court house was nearly
three miles away, but she wanted very
much to vote, so she prepared to go down,
and got on a street car, but after riding
some distance, remembered she had not the
numbers of her lots. She got off and went
home, secured them and started again, ar-
riving at the Court House she had a dupli-
cate receipt furnished her, after explanations
and some delay. She reached home just in
time to attend a W. C. T. U. meeting, of
which she is an officer, and when it was
over, she went a second time to the polls
and accomplished her purpose to vote.
	A wealthy and prominent citizen of this
community who boasted on November 7th
last, that he had voted “A great big No” to
the proposition to enfranchise the women
of Colorado, caused a few of us to rub our
eyes and wonder if we saw aright, when
he appeared with his wife and daughter at
the Republican primaries, where all stood
in line, waiting to deposit their ballots,
which they did with as much ease and satis-
faction, apparently, as did your correspond-


ent whose heart and soul have been in this
cause for twenty years or more. For the
benefit of those who may desire to know
how it feels to be a citizen after being
classed with the “silent seven,” I give my
own experience, and curiously enough I
have been assured by several other women
that theirs was much the same. As soon as
it was known beyond a doubt that the
rights and duties of citzenship were for-
ever secured to the women of our State, so
many feelings took possession of me that I
could not sleep; feelings of rejoicing, of
gratitude, of sorrow for the brave life that
had gone out a little too soon, thoughts of
what this victory meant to the cause every-
where, and its effect upon our children’s
lives and all who shall come after us, but
over and above all was a feeling of not
exultation but exaltation, something indes-
cribable, never before experienced, and
probably never to be again by me.—Wo-
man's Tribune.


