Editorial President Williams Parts with her Life's Companion The heart-felt sympathy of the members of the General Board, all stake and ward officers, and members of the Relief Society the world over, goes out to President Clarissa Smith Williams in the great loss she has sustained in the death of her much beloved and devoted companion. For many months Senator Williams has been confined to his bed of suffering. All that skill and patient, loving hands could do to lighten his pain and give comfort during the period of his illness has been done. Chief among those who have ministered to him has been his beloved wife, assisted by their devoted daughter, Miss Bae Williams. At the service Elder George Albert Smith expressed the idea that Brother Williams' work, which marks a life of achievement, has been given that support that only a devoted and intelligent wife could give; consequently, his success was in a measure her success. In this regard what was true of Sister Williams was also true of Brother Williams. Senator Williams has shown the keenest interest in all of his wife's public work. There was no detail too small for him to take note of. On the 15th day of December we had occasion to visit Sister Williams to EDITORIAL 79 present to her the sketch for the new Magazine cover. She examined it and then said, "Take it in and let Brother Williams see it, for he has been waiting eagerly ever since he knew you were coming." We carried it in to him. He made some comments in relation to it when suddenly he caught sight of the two Relief Society teachers at the door, then his eyes filled with tears, and in words scarcely audible he expressed his appreciation. Many members of the General Board will doubtless recall with what pride he took part in the unveiling of the oil painting of President Williams that now adorns the walls of the Board room. His tribute to his wife on that occasion glowed with admiration and sincere devotion. It must be a matter of the deepest satisfaction to her to realize that she and her husband have builded well, and that love and harmony, together with other Christian virtues, have united to make their union outstanding and beautiful. President Williams' co-workers in the great organization at whose head she stands, with marked graciousness and nobility, unite in extending to her and to her sons and daughters their love and sympathy in this hour of keen sorrow. They pray that the mellowing influence of our Father's Spirit may abide with them to give comfort and all needed support. In extending our love and sympathy to our esteemed and much beloved leader we shall make use of Alfred Tennyson's noted lines written to Queen Victoria on the occasion of the death of the Prince Consort: "May all love, His love, unseen but felt, o'ershadow thee, The love of all thy sons encompass thee, The love of all thy daughters cherish thee, The love of all thy people comfort thee, Till God's love set thee at his side again!"