Past Echoes and Present Pep By Grace A. Woodbury Characters: Four ladies representing four generations (Great Grandma, Grandma, Mother and Daughter) girls of today and of yesterday. As scene opens a mother of today is sewing on a thin dimity dress of today's style. With her ls her grandmother and mother. G. G. Is knitting, G. M. Is darning stockings for her grandaughter.) G. M.: It seems to me that Louise is getting old enough to darn her own stockings. Not that I mind helping you out, Mary, but these silk stockings just don't have anything to darn to. I should think her legs would freeze. She's surely planning for a rheumaticky old age. I tell you, you never went out in any such stockings when you were her age. G. G.: Gracious goodness, I should say she didn't, neither did you. Good, home-knit stockings are the proper kind for everyone to wear. Now when Joseph was a baby I knit him a nice pair of white yarn, with red stripes around them and he never did wear them out, but these shoddy things you buy today are hardly worth carrying home. Now just look at this pair I am wearing, third year and never come to darning yet. Mother: I don't see how you can stand those wooly things, grandmother, in such warm weather. They give me the itch just to look at them. G. M.: Well, I must say, while home-knit wool stocking are all very well for winter, I find I can keep plenty warm enough in summer without them. Mother: (Holding up the dainty dress she has finished). Well, as far as I know, no one will deprive you, dear ladies, of the pleasure you get out of wearing your wool stockings all year round or only part of it, just as you like. But just tell me how Louise would look in this (shows the dress) with wool stockings. G. G.: Well, I must say, that even if they wouldn't look very well together, I would have the satisfaction of knowing that at least part of her would be properly clad. G. M.: (Examining dress.) It does seem a bit slimsy, doesn't it? And not much shape to it; she'll wear it out in one summer. Whey, when you were a girl, Mary, I made your dresses over and over?and?. Mother: (Interrupting.) Yes, I know you did, I don't think I ever did wear out any of my dresses, the material was so very 
 substantial. J have several, upstairs, now that Louise used to like to dress up in. G. M.: You must remember, Mary, when you were young that a dress was a dress, and I. Couldn't afford to buy a dress that would wear out in one season. G. G.: I am still wearing a brocaded silk that I have had for twenty-five years. Mother: Yes, but did you ever happen to think, mother, that a pair of leg-o-mutton sleeves would make a dress like this, that the material used in one hoop skirt, such as grandma used to wear, would make dresses for three or four girls of today. (Louise has come in during the latter part of the conversation.) Louise: Oh! Mother, what do you know about this, Jack Goodwin told Mary Clark today that he thought I was some classy little Jane. Said he liked girls with lots of pep and said he would step me to the dance tonight if he had the nerve and? ? ? G. G.: (To Grandma.) Dear me, what is the child talking about?: Pep and nerve! Who ever heard that pepper was good for nervous trouble. Lowise: Why, hello, old dears. I was so excited I never noticed you before, but you wouldn't blame me, if you knew Jack Goodwin. Why! He's a regular shiek! G. G.: A shiek! A shiek! Is the child talking about a foreigner? Louise: Let's see, how can I put it up to you, so you'll understand just what I mean by a fellow being a shiek. Now grandma, just suppose you were young and had a crush on some boy, who wanted to step with you awhile; and you were just crazy to have him. What would he say to you and how would you answer him? G. G.: (Primly.) He would first ask my father's permission to call on me, then if father gave his consent, he would then ask me for the pleasure of my company, and if I approved of him, I would say, "I shall be pleased to have you accompany me to the party," or "through life," just as the case might be. Louise: My! What a long round about process. No wonder they had to travel with ox team. Imagine trying to say all of that to a guy in a jitney.. G. M.: How I loathe those smelly, noisy cars. It doesn't seem respectful to hurry so; carriages are more to my liking. G. G.: It really seems disgusting to honk one's friend out, when calling to take them for a ride. Louise: Gee, what slow times you had. From what you say, I would imagine that a rag bee would seem wildly exciting. G. M.: I am certain that we enjoyed our quiet parties and modest dresses as well as you do your noisy dances and those sleeveless, collarless apologies, you call dresses. PAST ECHOES AND PRESENT PEP 7\ Louise: Please don't bawl me out any more, but tell me, What, oh! What can I tell my grandchildren? Mother: Don't worry dear, by the time you have grandchildren, dresses will be so short that you can say, ""My dear, when I was a girl my dresses reached clear down to my knees." (All laugh.) G. G.: I have a plan to suggest that will show you that the boys and girls of my day really were superior to the young folks of today in matters of dress, dancing, and general conduct. I am going to invite a number of my old friends and their partners and we'll wear our old fashioned clothes, dance our graceful old dances and sing our sweet, old songs. Mother: And just to show you that my friends were just as well behaved as you and your friends were, I'll invite some of them and we, too, will have a good time like we used to have when I was a girl. Louise: Now you are shouting; bring on your Rip Van Winkles and their wives. Grandma and mother will trot out some of their old stiffs and I bring in some of my peppy bunch and we'll see just how much better we are than you, and we'll leave it to the crowd to judge which of the three generations are the worst actors. (Goes to telephone and calls up Jack.) Hello, Jack? Come over tonight if you want to have the time of your young life, and bring Belle and Bill, and May and Jim with you. Sure, bring them, the more the merrier., G. M.: I must tell grandpa to call around and invite my friends. (Goes off stage as mother calls.) Mother: Just as well call them up on the phone, Mother. G. M.: (Primly.) No thanks. I don't like this modern way of inviting people to parties and that person you call central is rather inquisitive anyway. Mother: (Goes to telephone saying): Queer how these old people can't get used to modern conveniences. Yet Louise laughs at me because I won't drive the car. (Goes to telephone as curtain falls.) ACT?II. (As scene opens the four groups): G. G. In clothes of youthful days, light basques, full skirt, leg-o-mutton sleeves, etc. Grandmothers in skirts and waists; small waists, large bustles. Mothers in flounced or ruffled dress, bow of ribbon on hair, etc. Louise in modern, one piece short dresses, bobbed hair, etc. Group One sings: "Wait till the Clouds Roll by." Group Two sings: "Wake, Lady, Awake." Group three sings: "Two Little Girls in Blue," or "After the Ball." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Group four sings: "Yes sir, she's my baby," or any other late, jazzy song. The songs are followed by a dance from each group: One: "Minuet" Two: "Quadrille" Three: "Waltz" (out) Four: "Fox Trot" (Other songs may be sung if desired; these are given as suggestions. As this playlet was put on entirely by Relief Society members, ladies dressed for men. Fat ladies dressed as men, with tall thin partners. This caused much fun.)