Section 3.) GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 105 3. He was inspired. When inspiration ceased the translation stopped. That Joseph was more than man during the work of the translation is evident. His power to translate was supplemental to the man, it was a gift from God, just as the instruments of translation were a loan from the angel who was the permanent custodian of them and the plates. (See Doc. And Cov 3:11-14; 10:1, 2, 3.) The Instrument of Translation The Urim and Thummm. "A curious instrument which the ancients called Urim and Thummim which consisted of two trans-, parent stones set in the rim of a bow, fastened to a breast plate." Joseph Smith in a letter (see History of the Church, vol. 1, p. 335.) The words "Urim and Thummim" are said to mean light and perfection. The home of God is a Urim and Thummim, the earth will become a Urim and Thummim, and one of the blessings of the celestial glory is an individual Urim and Thummim. (See Doc. And Cov. 130:7-11.) The Urim and Thummim was evidently in use before the Abrahamic dispensation, as the Brother of Jared had one given to him. (Ether 3:22.) This instrument of interpretation was used by the Nephites (see Ether 4:5.) But the instrument used by Joseph the Seer was the one used by the Brother of Jared in fulfilment of a prophecy recorded in Ether 3:24. The Urim and Thummim was an instrument by which the mind and the will of the Lord was sought in ancient Israel. (See I Samuel 28: 3-7.) The interpreter used by Joseph was returned to Moroni. (See History of the Church, vol. 1, p. 18.) The translation was begun by the Seer alone, then Martin Harris became scribe for the Prophet and wrote one hundred and sixteen pages of manuscript, which, in the opinion of Elder Sjodahl, would equal not more than fifty printed pages, or the untranslated contents of four of the plates. These one hundred and sixteen pages of manuscript fell into the hands of enemies, and because of this error the angel Moroni took the plates and the instrument of interpretation into his own custody for a brief period and then restored them to Joseph. (See History of the Church, vol. 1, pages 21-23.) This ended the first period of the work of translation. The second period begins with Joseph fully reinstated before the Lord and with a new scribe, Oliver Cowdery, and new instructions concerning what to translate. Instead of retranslating that part of the abridgment made by Mormon, contained in the lost manuscript, he made a translation direct from the plates of Nephi which Mormon had abridged. This direct translation covered the history of the Nephites from 
 the time they left Jerusalem up until the time of King Benjamin, and so we have in the Book of Mormon a more detailed history of that period than we should have had, if the manuscript had not been lost. Instead of the 45 or 50 pages of matter contained in the lost manuscript of 116 pages, we have 132 pages of printed matter. The translation with Oliver Cowdery as scribe began April 7, 1829, and was completed July 1, 1829?eighty-five days? a miracle of months, a work that could not have been done by human agency alone. (Church History, vol. 1, page 32; Introduction to the Study of the Book of Mormon, by J. M. Sjodahl, page 24.) There have been fifteen translations of the Book of Mormon that were not miracles and yet each contributed to the making of the Book fill its prophetic destiny as a message to all "nations, kindred, tongues and peoples." These translations or versions are the Danish, French, Italian, German, Welsh, Hawaiian, Swedish, Spanish, Maori, Dutch, Samoan, Tahitian, Turkish, Japanese, Hebrew. Questions and Problems What is the one outstanding characteristic of a miracle? Why is the radio not a miracle theologically? Wherein was the first vision a miracle?. Over how much time did the miracle of translation of the plates extend? 5. Discuss the proposition: The acceptance and application of revealed truth is a mark of high intelligence. 6. What instance in the translation gives proof of the honesty and courage of Joseph Smith? 7. What books in the Book of Mormon are not a translation of the Book of Mormon plates or the plates containing Mormon's abridgement? 8. How many pages longer is the Book of Mormon than it would have been if the Harris manuscript had not been lost? 9. How many days were occupied in the divinely directed translation?,; 10. Why cannot the translation of the Book of Mormon into other languages be called miracles? 11. Name the languages into which the Book of Mormon has been translated. 12. Where did Abraham get the Urim and Thummim, and what did he see through the instrument. (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham, chapter 3.) il) ie GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 107 LESSON II Word and Business (Second Week in April) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR APRIL?HOME Cooperation in the Home in Work Habits "Successful cooperation bespeaks a high grade of social order, inasmuch as each of the cooperators must unfold specific activities within precise limits, and the results therefrom are enjoyed or shared according to some recognized principle."?Ross. I. Home should be a well regulated institution. A. Definite schedule (within reason) should be made and followed. IT. Children's part in household tasks. A. Each member in family should be given work responsibilities according to his capacity. 1. Growing children should not be overburdened. 2. Small children should not be given too great responsibilities such as: Leaving smaller ones in their care while parents are absent, endangering the children's lives by fire, accidents, etc. B. Over-indulgence on part of parent in withholding household tasks detrimental to growth and development. C. Efficiency in accomplishing tasks should be required. III. Parents should observe special traits and capabilities of children, with a view to training for a vocation or profession. 
 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in April) Robert Louts Stevenson In this age, which has been characterized time and again as the child's age, it would seem unpardonable to present a course in modern poetry without devoting at least one lesson to poetry for children. Today the reputation of some of our modern writers depends largely on their output of children's verse. Even Louis Untermeyer has turned into that field, while the verse for children written by Christina Rosetti is pretty generally known. In this lesson we shall present the child's poetry of Robert Louis Stevenson. When we think of the long struggle with ill health, which Robert Louis Stevenson had during his productive period, we are reminded of another great Scotch writer, Sir Walter Scott, the difference being that Robert Louis Stevenson's ill health covered a much longer period than that of Sir Walter Scott. When we think of his burial we call to mind the American writer, Joaquin Miller, whose ashes were also placed on a promontory overlooking the Pacific Ocean, the difference in this case being that Robert Louis Stevenson was buried on one side of the Pacific and Joaquin Miller on the other. Robert Louis Stevenson was born in the cultural center of Scotland, Edinburgh, at Number 8 Howard Place, on the 13th of November, 1850. It was our pleasure while visiting Edinburgh to mark the spot in a tour of the city. He was the son of Thomas Stevenson and Margaret Isabella Balfour. Even as an infant he was very fragile. In 1858, he barely escaped death by gastric fever. He went to school mainly from 1858 to 1867. His ill health prevented very steady application. His mother once said that "his teachers liked talking to him much better than teaching him." He often went on trips with his father, who was an engineer. It appears to have been the desire of the family that Robert Louis, too, should be an engineer, but fate seemed to have decreed otherwise, for at the age of six this boy showed a disposition to write. He did enjoy the outdoor business of the engineer's life but the strain on his physical endurance was altogether too much, so that in 1871 he reluctantly changed to law. He was called to the bar in 1875. Two years earlier he first met Mr. Sidney Colvin who proved to be a close friend throughout his life. He traveled in ~ Europe and then went back to Scotland where he was doing a good deal of writing in the year 1881. Among the books of this period was Treasure Island which Mr. Untermeyer has called ''that GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 109 eternal classic of youth. In 1882 appeared Familiar Studies of Men and Books, and New Arabian Knights. In January, 1884, his ambitious plans for intense and continuous writing were interfered with by the most serious illness from which he had yet suffered. Again he neared death. As a result the attack was followed "by long prostration and incapacity for work and by continued relapses." In August, 1887, his home was at Bournemouth. In 1885 he published, after long indecision, The Body Snatchers and the romance, Prince Otto, and A Child's Garden of Verses. Early in 1886 he presented the English public with the somewhat freakish story of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. This novel, in connection with Treasure Island, proved exceedingly popular. The same year he wrote Kidnapped, at Bournemouth, an English watering place. His poor health continued. The last four years of his life were spent at Samoa. He made his abode at Vailinia "where he. Took a small barrack of a wooden box 500 feet above the sea and began to build himself a large house close by. The natives gave him the name of Tusitala. His character developed unanticipated strength on the practical side. He became a vigorous employer of labor, an active planter, above all a powerful and benignant island chieftain. He gathered by degrees around him a kind of feudal clan of servants and retainers and he plunged with more generous ardor than coolness of judgment into the troubled politics of the country. "Through 1894, he was engaged in composing two romances, neither of which were finished at his death. He was dictating Weir Hermiston on the very day that he died, which was the 3rd of December, 1894. He was talking in a cheerful manner on the veranda of his house at Vailinia when he had a stroke of apoplexy from which he never recovered, death occurring that evening. Next day sixty Samoans of athletic build, who acknowledged Stevenson as their chief, carried him to the peak Vaea, where he had wished to be buried and where they consigned him to rest in hearing of the roar of the great Pacific Ocean." Many people in this country have listened to David Starr Jordan tell of the days when he knew Stevenson on the Samoan Islands. His report is the usual one that Stevenson was a mar of very exceptional charm. "That he was the most attractive figure of the men of letters of his generation is admitted, and the acknowledged fascination of his character was deepened and was extended over an extremely wide circle of readers by the publication, in 1899, of His Letters which has subdued even those who were rebellious of the entertainment of his books. It is, therefore, from the point of view of his 'charm' that the genius of Stevenson must be approached. In this respect there was between himself and his books, his manner and his style, his practice and his theory a very unusual harmony. Very few authors of so high a class have 
 been so sustained, or have made their conduct so close a reflection of their philosophy. This unity of the man and his work makes it difficult, for one who knew him, to be sure that one greatly gauges the purely literary significance of the latter. There are some living who still hear in every page of Stevenson's the voice of the man himself, and see in every turn of his language his flashing smile." We are interested particularly in this lesson in A Child's Garden of Verse. It is, says Louis Untermeyer, "Second only to Mother Goose's own collection in its lyrical simplicity and universal appeal." The poem "My Shadow" is characteristic. One can see how completely Stevenson has entered into the child-life thinking of things about him as a child might, and betraying that sympathy with all natural objects that the child often portrays: MY SHADOW I have a little shadow that goes in and out with me, And what can be the use of him is more than I can see. He is very, very like me from the heels up to the head; And I see him jump before me, when I jump into my bed. The funniest thing about him is the way he likes to grow? Not at all like proper children, which is always very slow; For he sometimes shoots up taller, like an India-rubber ball, And he sometimes gets so little that there's none of him at all. He hasn't got a notion of how children ought to play, And can only make a fool of me in every sort of way. He stands so close beside me, he's a coward you can see; I'd think shame to stick to nursie as that shadow sticks to me. One morning, very early, before the sun was up, I rose and found the shining dew on every buttercup; But my lazy little shadow, like an arrant sleepy-head, Had stayed at home behind me and was fast asleep in bed. Everybody knows that children love animals. As an example of Robert Louis Stevenson's recognition of this fact we include "The Cow": THE COW The friendly cow, all red and white, I love with all my heart: She gives me cream with all her might, To eat with apple-tart. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 111 She wanders lowing here and there, And yet she cannot stray, All in the pleasant open air, The pleasant light of day. And blown by all the winds that pass, And wet with all the showers, She walks among the meadow grass And eats the meadow flowers. "Good and Bad Children," has both the modern and the ancient ring. It is modern in that it touches good health habits and has something to say about diet. It is of the past because it emphasizes particularly the value of good morals and the sorrow that comes to those whose morals are bad: GOOD AND BAD CHILDREN Children, you are very little, And your bones are very brittle; If you would grow great and stately, You must try to walk sedately. You must still be bright and quiet, And content with simple diet; And remain, through all bewildering, Innocent and honest children. Happy hearts and happy faces, Happy play in grassy places? That was how, in ancient ages, Children grew to kings and sages. But the unkind and the unruly, And the sort who eat unduly, They must never hope for glory? Theirs is quite a different story. Cruel children, crying babies, All grow up as geese and gabies, Hated, as their age increases, By their nephews and their nieces. The poem called "Foreign Children" has a point of view that has been nursed very carefully by European and American children for many ages. It will be interesting, as time goes on, to find a poem that is a little broader and little more sympathetic in its outlook. However, this has an interesting point of view: 
 FOREIGN CHILDREN Little Indian, Sioux or Crow, Little frosty Eskimo, Little Turk or Japanese, O! Don't you wish that you were me! You have seen the scarlet trees And the lions over seas; You have eaten ostrich eggs, And turned the turtles off their legs. Such a life is very fine, But it's not so nice as mine: You must often, as you trod, Have wearied not to be abroad. You have curious things to eat, I am fed on proper meat; You must dwell beyond the foam, But I am safe and live at home. Little Indian, Sioux or Crow, Little frosty Eskimo, Little Turk or Japanese, O! Don't you wish that you were me? The little couplet called "Happy Thought" is worth including at this point: HAPPY THOUGHT The world is so full of a number of things, I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings. We are including as the last poem of Robert Louis Stevenson the noted Requiem that is found on his headstone. REQUIEM Under the wide and starry sky, Dig the grave and let me lie. Glad did I live and gladly die, And I laid me down with a will. This be the verse you grave for me: Here he lies where he longed to be; Home is the sailor, home from the sea, And the hunter home from the hill. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 113 Questions and Problems 1. Do you know of children who have been particularly interested in their shadows? Try to call to mind some things they have said about them. 2. What good health rules do you discover in "Good and Bad Children?" 3. Name some of the things that should make children happy as kings. 4. This is a time when personality is very generally discussed. What are your conclusions in relation to the personality of Robert Louis Stevenson. 5. How many members of the class have read Treasure Island? What is there about it that makes it so fascinating to your readers? 6. Name as many outstanding Scotch writers as you can call to mind. 7. Do you agree with Louis Untermeyer that Stevenson makes an approach to "Mother Goose," in his children's verses? 8. Call to mind other writers whose contribution is intended primarily for children. LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in April) THE CHILD?STUDY COURSE LESSON 4 THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE INTELLECT IN CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH Based on chapter 4 of The Child: His Nature and His Needs. In Part One of our text we are considering the different phases of the child's growing personality?his instincts, his active nature, his intellect, his moral and social traits, and his mastery of the arts of expression. The last lesson, it will be recalled, had to do with the child's active nature and needs, the main point being that, since the normal child is active, the chief job of the parent is to wisely guide this activity. We shall now consider the growth of the child's intellect. To help us here we have Chapter IV written by Dr. Walter F. Dearborn, professor of Education at Harvard University; a very reliable authority. 
 A.?WHAT IS INTELLIGENCE? Intelligence is difficult to define because it can never be detached from a lot of other personality traits which are closely related and which overlap it. The following, however, are samples of the definitions of intelligence attempted by a number of leading psychologists: 1. "The ability to learn." (Pintner.) 2. "General intelligence is the ability of the organism to adjust itself adequately to new situations." (Stern.) 3. "Intellect in general is the power of good responses from the point of view of truth or fact." (Thorndike.) It is interesting in this connection to note the very remarkable reference to intelligence made by the Prophet Joseph Smith: 1. "The glory of God is intelligence ---- 2. "Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be." Questions 1. Can intelligence be acquired, or is it part of the child's equipment at birth? 2. What has the brain to do with intelligence? 3. What is the difference between intelligence and knowledge? 4. Where and under what circumstances did the Prophet Joseph make the above statements with respect to intelligence? B.?HOW CAN WE TELL HOW INTELLIGENT A CHILD IS? (Pages 73-79) If one were asked to roughly estimate, without the aid of a test, the intelligence of a child, one would undoubtedly interview the child, cross-examine him, and observe his reactions generally. This common-sense method of appraising a child's intellect was used by the teachers in Paris when Alfred Binet started to experiment with intelligence tests. The intelligence test which Messrs. Binet and Simon devised is nothing more nor less than a refinement of this common-sense procedure. The chief difference being that the questions, instead of being asked at random, are standardized for the different ages. When these questions were made uniform it then became possible to compare the answers and responses of one child with those of other children. This is the genius of the intelligence test. The term "Mental Age" is used to indicate concretely the child's general level of intelligence. Thus, if Alice, 10 years of age, displays intelligence like that of the average eight-year-old GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 115 child, we say that Alice has a mental age of 8 years. The I. Q. or "Intelligence Quotient" represents merely the relationship of the child's mental age (M. A.) to his chronological age (C. A.) Thus, in the examples cited, Alice would have an I. Q. of 80, which is arrived at as follows: 10.00 (C. A.) 8.00 (M. A.) 80 (I. Q.) Questions 1. What is distinctive about the intelligence test of Binet and Simon? 2. What has been the effect of their work? 3. What other ways of testing and measuring intelligence do you know about? C.?WHERE DO THE INTELLIGENCE TESTS FALL DOWN? (Pages 79-82) There has been a great deal of criticism of the various intelligence tests because it is said they do not accurately measure intelligence. In the first place, it is contended that native intelligence cannot be tested apart from learning. That is to say, the intelligence test of necessity measures knowledge, experience, and learning, as well as capacity. Secondly, the child's facility or lack of facility with language enters into the test to a great extent. Thirdly, that the personality of the tester, the conditions under which the test is given, and the physical and emotional state of the person being tested, affect the results very materially. Fourthly, that most intelligence tests fail to discover and measure the nature and extent of unusual intellectual powers. Granted these criticisms and others, the fact remains that intelligence testing has come to be a most helpful method of comparing and classifying persons for educational and vocational purposes. It is axiomatic in the field of mental testing that the results of intelligence tests should, in individual cases especially, be accepted tentatively and interpreted very cautiously. Questions 1. What other values and limitations can you see in intelligence testing, as it is now practiced? 2. What kind of training is necessary to administer and to interpret intelligence tests? 3. What dangers lurk in the careless and unprofessional use of intelligence tests and test results? 
 D.?MENTAL AND PHYSICAL GROWTH (Pages 83-88) One of the most important and at the same time difficult problems is the inter-relationship of mental and physical development. The author's discussion of this topic is an excellent bit of work; it should be read carefully and with the following questions in mind: 1. Does the intellect develop at the same rate and for as long a period as the body? How is this to be explained? 2. What is the difference between the intellectual development of the inferior and the superior child. (Examine the chart on page 82, noting carefully the differences in the 3 curves.) 3. What is the author's theory as to why prodigies often "peter out" in later years? 4. How do you harmonize the author's statement that "The intelligence quotient tends to remain constant during the greater part of the period of growth?" (page 83.) With the actual facts in the cases cited? (pages 86-87.) Life's Sunset By Ida R. Alldredge There are days all bright and sunny With never a cloud o'er head, When the birds so sweetly warble In the trees just over head; When the world is full of beauty, And the heart is full of joy; Those, the happy carefree hours Of every girl and boy. There are days when clouds and sunshine Make a checkered path to tread, Or shadows dark are lurking In the trail that's just ahead, Or it might be lined with flowers Of some rare exquisite hue; Those the days when duty waits us, And bring joy and sorrow too. Then the peaceful evening follows, When the sun sinks in the west; 'Tis the sunset's rosy glowing, And the time we love the best; When it glows in gorgeous splendor, Casts its light o'er hill and plain, Golden tinted clouds and silver Blend with mellow shades again. So the sunset on life's pathway Should shine too with radiant light, Making rich the lives of others Who are struggling to the heights, Giving out their rich experience To help others find the way; 'Tis the peaceful benediction To a long and well spent day. Free Seed Guide Book FOR 1928 NOW READY You will find nothing of greater help in your garden and Orchard planting than P-W's New Seed and Nursery Book. It contains 100 pages of concise well-illustrated information of vital interest to Every Home Owner.