The Fruits of Good and Evil An Unpublished Poem By Charles W. Penrose In all our lives how careful should we be To square our actions by the rule of right, To speak the language of sincerity, And shun the path that will not bear the light. Who can the hasty, bitter word unsay? Who can a single deed obliterate? A flood of tears will wash no act away, Nor grief, the spoken thought annihilate. Our works on earth are like the seeds we sow, They pass from sight and fade from memory: But from them good or evil fruit shall grow, To multiply throughout eternity. No skill of man can make two kinds of fruit Grow from one seed, however rich the ground: And ne'er on branches from an evil root, Shall buds of good and evil both be found. Fruits "in their kind" from seeds prolific spring, In their own likeness they come forth again: And so our actions, right or wrong, shall bring To us a crop of good or evil grain. And fertile germs in their production dwell, Each to perpetuate their species still. When shall they cease to spread? Ah, who can tell? Who stop their increase by his feeble will? THE FRUITS OF GOOD AND EVIL 73 Do good to others; though ingratitude May often chill the warm and gen'rous heart, And though thy motives may be misconstrued, Still act a Godlike, charitable part. Hold not thine hand from doing worthy things, Though praised by none and known to God alone; Virtue shall be the glory of the kings Who share the splendor of the Father's throne. Oh! Think not that the shades of darkest night Can hide the wickedness in secret done! With all its dire effects 'twill come to light, And blast with trembling shame the guilty one. Beware of doing wilful injury, Close not thine ear to mercy's pleading voice, For thine own measure shall come back to thee, To bring despair, or make thy soul rejoice. Note: February 4 will be the anniversary of President Penrose's ninety-sixth birthday. Design for Shakespeare Memorial Theatre Made by Women It will be a matter of interest to women in general to learn that the design of Miss Elizabeth Scott for the new Shakespeare Memorial Theatre to be built at Stratford-on-avon has been accepted. The memorial theatre at Stratford is of general interest and it is in line with the achievements of modern women that one should draw a plan that has proved acceptable. Another thing about it that is interesting is that the plan looks very much like an old medieval castle. The name Scott usually suggests the name of Sir Walter Scott, the great novelist who did so much to revive the middle ages in his long list of extraordinary novels. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: = Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor- Alice Louise Reynolds Assistant Manager - -: - - - - Amy Brown LYMAN Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine  VoL. XV FEBRUARY, 1928 No.