As shadows fall; His Mother's Promise By Laura Moench Jenkins "Thy watchman shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion." The reader, a boy of ten years, raised his eyes from the book on his knee and addressed the wan figure on the bed. "The Lord will bring again Zion," he repeated, "Mother, does that mean the Lord will bring Zion from heaven?" "I think not, my son," the sick woman answered, "it is a city that will be built upon the earth in the last days." The boy sat lost in thought. "Mother," he queried at last, "will we ever see Zion?" A moment of heavy breathing and the sick woman thoughtfully replied: "My son, I shall never live to see Zion, but I promise you that, when I am gone, if you will always live as I have taught you? you shall yet go to Zion." It was a plain little room and a plain little cottage in the village of Neuphen, Germany, almost a century ago. The mother was Frau Rochell and the boy her son Karl. The time had been when the father, Herr Rochell, had been considered a rich man; he was a tanner, and owned the tanyard at the outskirts of the village, and Frau Rochell was loved by all the villagers for her hospitality. But reverses came, war held the country in its grip, and after that war debts were to be paid and taxes were high and there were losses and failures in business, until finally Herr Rochell decided to leave all and seek his fortune in the much talked of land of America. In the spring of 1850 he bade his family adieu and set sail over the great Atlantic for the harbor of New York. Frau Rochell, with her eight children, remained in the old home to await the outcome of the father's expedition. She was a frugal woman, but her family was large and it took a big loaf of brown bread to feed eight hungry mouths and there was little else. She spent much of her time among the sick of the village and her son Johann, a sturdy lad of sixteen years, worked in the tanyard which had been owned by his father, but wages were low and there was little to earn. In the new world, however, Herr Rochell was quite successful, and before winter came again, he was able to send his family enough money to make them more comfortable. But America was a long way off and it took six weeks for HIS MOTHER'S PROMISE 85 a letter to cross the big blue ocean and often the family were without even the necessities, depending upon the scanty earnings of the mother and Johann. Two years passed in this way, and then, one day there came a letter from America containing passage money for Johann and Mary to join their father in New York. Herr Rochell now owned a tanyard in that state and felt, with Johann to assist him in his business and Mary, now a young woman of fifteen years, to keep up their home, he could soon save means to emigrate Frau Rochell and the little ones. There was a dull heavy ache in the mother's heart as she made preparations for the departure of her children, the question, "Would they ever meet again?" kept rising in her bosom. She concealed her forebodings, however, and one bright May morning Johann and Mary kissed her goodbye and started on their long journey. Bravely Frau Rochell struggled on through another summer and the ensuing autumn, but her health was slowly failing. Winter came again and there was little food in the home; vainly she watched for the letter from America to relieve the wants of her family. At length, there came a day when there was no food and six hungry mouths to be fed. For many days she had eaten little herself, that the scant supply might last till the letter from father would reach them, but it had not come and now they were without. It was a cold December day, the snow was falling and a chill wind blowing. Frau Rochell rose early in the morning and wrapping her thin faded shawl around her shoulders, started out to seek work that perchance she might earn a few pennies and bring home a loaf of brown bread to her hungry little ones. All day she wandered over the village and all day the children watched for her return. At last, weary and disheartened, she came again to her home. Thinking she had brought them food, the children rushed to meet her. It was too much for the weary woman. She dropped into a chair and buried her face in her hands. "Children," she sobbed, "I have nothing for you." Silence fell over the room and for some moments nothing was heard but the heart-broken sobs of the mother. At length she became calm and called her daughter Barbara to her side. "Go, my child, to the cellar," she directed, "and bring what sauerkraut there still remains. The little ones must be fed or they will starve." The girl obeyed and while she was gone Karl, her younger brother, gathered a few sticks and built a fire in the old fashioned fireplace and the cold, starving children gathered around the comforting blaze. The kraut was cooked and eaten, and that night the family 
 became violently ill. The kraut was too heavy for their empty stomachs and two days later the two younger children, Ludwig and Louise, died from the effects. Too late the villagers came to the assistance of Frau Rochell and her family, and though the next day brought the long looked for letter from America, want and hunger had done their cruel work. The heart-broken mother never recovered from her terrible experience, overworked and undernourished, she became an easy victim for the grim white plague which made rapid inroads on her depleted body, and she took to her bed to rise no more. During that last, long illness, her greatest comfort was to listen to her son Karl read for her from her Lutheran Bible; hour after hour, he sat at her bedside reading its pages and listening to her explanation. And here is where our story finds them. Karl Rochell pondered long on the promise made him by his mother. She had told him he should go to Zion, and he never doubted her words, but where would Zion be? Time passed on, and one cold February morning the spirit of Frau Rochell took its flight and four motherless children stood weeping at her bedside. "Fear not though I die," she had told them, "I will never leave you," and these prophetic words were the only comfort left to that stricken household. The death of his wife was a severe blow to Herr Rochell and as soon as possible he sent for the remaining children, reuniting his family at last in America. New York was truly a new world to Karl Rochell. Everything was different, the boys with whom he associated, their mode of dress, they played different games and they spoke a different language. But Karl was young and soon mastered the new tongue and all the rest of it. In fact, he preferred New York to Neuphen except for one thing, and that was his home life. Home life in New York without his mother could never be what home in Neuphen had been with her in it. She had taught him to pray, and morning and evening reminded him of his prayers. No one bothered about that now. Father was too busy, when he was at home he just smoked his pipe and read the German papers. His sister Barbara always seemed to him very much like his mother, however, and he loved to sit and talk to her when they were alone. "Barbara," he said to her as they sat alone together one evening, "New York is a big fine place and Taylor's Hollow where we now live is better than Neuphen, but sometime I'd like to go home again." "But Karl," she replied with a little choke in her voice, "mother would not be there." HIS MOTHER'S PROMISE 87 "I know it, Barbara," was the response, "home would never be the same without her. I guess it's better to stay here. We're never cold or hungry now, are we, sister?" "No, dear," was the reply, "how I wish mother could have lived to see us so comfortable." A silence followed, broken only by the half suppressed sobs of the two children. "Barbara," the boy whispered when they had become calm again, "this cannot be Zion even though it is a better place than Neuphen." "Oh, Karl, what a funny boy you are! What makes you think about Zion?" and Barbara gave a little laugh and drew him to her almost like his mother used to do. For a moment the boy sat lost in thought. "Barbara," he replied at last, "once, just a little while before mother died, I read in her Bible that God would again send Zion. Mother said it was a beautiful city, which God would have built in the last days in the tops of the mountains, and sister, she said if I would always be good and do as she had taught me, some day I should go there." "There's mountains here," replied Barbara. "Yes, but this cannot be Zion, because people are not good. The boys are not good, they steal poor old man Casey's apples." "But you do not, do you Karl?" and Barbara gave him a confidential little hug as she put the question. "I don't know," he stammered, "sometimes I forget about mother and Zion and take a few apples so the boys won't call me names. No, Barbara, this is not Zion. Mother said the people who go to Zion will be good. Sometimes I forget to pray, and last night I dreamed I saw mother. I guess she wants me to be a better boy." Barbara Rochell's heart gave a little thud. Was the Zion mother had spoken of heaven, and was this little brother going there with her? She caught him to her bosom and he put his arms around her neck. Suddenly the door opened and Herr Rochell entered. "Ach, meine kinder! Gehe zu deinem bette." Never accustomed to question or argue with their father, the two children, so unceremoniously dismissed, wished their father "goodnight" and quietly retired. Herr Rochell was an industrious man and believed in developing habits of industry in his children. In fact, this was the secret of his success in the new world. Faithfully Johann had labored by his father's side since his childhood and Karl was expected to do the same. During the winter months the boy attended the village school and advanced rapidly. The remainder of the year he labored with his father and brother in the tanyard. 
 But Karl was ambitious. He never liked the tanyard. There was within his bosom a longing for an education and he was often roused from his day dreams by a sharp reprimand from his father or one of the men. Johann, however, was very patient with his younger brother. Something in his big blue eyes reminded him of their mother. One evening as Karl was wending his way homeward from the tanyard he picked up a copy book by the roadside. No name appeared on its cover and as there was no one near to whom it might belong he carried it home. His artistic eye admired the penmanship, and hour after hour, when he should have been in bed he sat practicing on its copies. His main ambition in life now was to write like the copies in that copy book. When he was fourteen he became dissatisfied with his home life and ran away to Canada. That night he slept in a cheap boarding house just over the Canadian line. In his dreams he saw his mother and by the sad look on her face he knew she was not pleased with him. He awoke early in the morning and lay upon his bed in thought. "If you will be a good boy and always do as I have taught you, you shall yet go to Zion." The words kept ringing in his ears. Karl had not been very careful to cover up his tracks and his brother Johann easily followed him, so when a few hours later the landlady ushered Johann into his room, he dutifully accompanied him home. Ambitious still, for an education, Karl carefully saved his earnings and all his leisure time was spent in study. He attended night classes and studied with private teachers and practiced into the early morning hours with his pen. At last he was able to attend the Bryant Stratton College in Chicago, from which he graduated with honors, having the distinction of being the best penman ever graduated from that institution. * * * * * The day had been unusually warm for so late in September, but Apollo in his golden chariot had reached the western horizon and was fast disappearing in a sea of crimson and gold. Exhausted from the excessive heat of the day, people gathered on their porches or doorsteps to enjoy the refreshing evening breeze. Salt Lake City was a social little village in the early sixties, neighboring womenfolk found time to gossip over fences or gateposts at the close of the day. Near the southeastern boundary of the city Martha Jane Allen and Eliza Purrington were enjoying a tete-a-tete over a green willow fence that separated their homes. Mrs. Purrington suddenly looked up. "Lawsy me, Marthy Jane! Who can that be?" HIS MOTHER'S PROMISE 89 "Blest if I know!" was the reply, "some more of them Gentile gold diggers agoin to Californy, I reckon." "Lawsy me, I believe they're goin to turn in here," and Eliza Purrington's hands went up to her head to straighten her sun bonnet and the brooch at her neck, before the strangers should have time to dismount and enter. The eyes of both women were turned to the street, where two dusty, travel-stained men had reined their mules under a locust tree, which threw a friendly shade over the street and sidewalk. One dismounted, handed his bridle rein to his companion, strode over to the wicket gate, opened it and walked briskly up the little walk and over to where the women were standing. Gallantly doffing his dusty hat he bade the ladies "good-evening" and enquired if the town afforded a boarding house where he and his companion could find accommodations during the few days they might wish to spend in the intermountain city. His gallantry rather confused these rural ladies but they managed to direct him to the home of Mrs. Mary White, a widow lady, who made her living by taking boarders. As the travelers rode away in the direction given, the women eyed them suspiciously. "My! Them Gentiles do have slick manners," remarked Mrs. Allen, and Mrs. Purrington replied that she would certainly keep an eye on her Nora while they remained in town. The mules were tired so the travelers rode slowly until they stood in front of the two-story adobe cottage to which they had been directed. The same young man dismounted, opened the little gate, walked up the gravel walk and knocked at the door. Mrs. White, herself, answered the knock and the young fellow introduced himself by handing her a card on which she read the name, finely pen written, Prof. Karl L. Rochell; he then handed her another card, which he explained belonged to his friend with the mules in the street. This read: Prof. Oliver Trescott. He then informed Mrs. White that they were on their way to California to open a college there, but had met with a little misfortune and would be obliged to remain in Salt Lake City a few days. If she could afford them accommodations in her home during their stay they would greatly appreciate her kindness. They had no extra luggage, because the outfit with which they had been crossing the plains had taken fire and burned while they were hunting in the hills above the city. They had nothing but the clothes they wore. Something in the boyish face of the young man touched the motherly heart of Sister White and she invited them into her home. The stay of the young men in Salt Lake City was prolonged into days, weeks and months. Both found employment there and 
 learned to love and trust the "Mormon" people. In place of teaching in California, both young men spent the winter of 1864 and 1865 teaching in the University of Utah. Professor Rochell was prejudiced against the "Mormon" people. In fact, he had remarked many times during his journey across the plains that he did not wish to remain in Salt Lake City over night. Sister White was a firm Latter-day Saint and no one could live in her home without feeling the influence of the religion she professed. Having received the light herself, she was anxious to remove the veil of darkness from those with whom she came in contact, who had not yet received of its brightness. So she put forth every effort to interest her boarders in the principles of the gospel. At first they resented this, but as they became better acquainted with this noble woman, they learned to love and respect her as a mother. One Sunday afternoon she insisted on their accompanying her to the Sacramental meeting. President Young delivered a powerful discourse. To Karl Rochell it was wonderful, for it was different from anything to which he had ever before listened. Strange that President Young should quote the passage of scripture which had made so great an impression on his mind when a child, reading at his mother's bedside: "Thy watchman shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion." "Let me say a few words with regard to Zion. We profess to be Zion. If we are the pure in heart we are so, for 'Zion is the pure in heart.'" Every word of that sermon sank into the heart of Karl Rochell. He had been promised by his mother he should go to Zion, and he placed implicit confidence in her words; he was learning to trust and respect the "Mormon" people through the exemplary life of the woman in whose house he had made his home. Had he really been led to Zion? Had an unseen hand controlled the forces which had compelled him to remain in Salt Lake City? Such were the thoughts in the young man's mind as he listened to the words of the "Mormon" prophet and leader. Again the speaker opened the Bible and read a passage of scripture which was also deeply imbedded in the memory of Karl Rochell, for it had also been discussed at the bedside of his dying mother: "And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the tops of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it." Surely this was a commonwealth built in the tops of the HIS MOTHER'S PROMISE 91 mountains. He had traveled far, but Utah met the prophet Isaiah's description the nearest of any place he had ever seen. After the meeting he excused himself and left Sister White and his friend to walk home together, and took a long walk beyond the outskirts of the city. He wanted to be alone and ponder over the things he had heard. It was late when he returned home, but Sister White had his supper waiting. As he was leaving the table she laid a detaining hand upon his arm. "Prof. Rochell," she said, "Here is my Book of Mormon. I would like you to read it." There was the "Mormon" Bible, he took it in his hands, the old prejudice seemed to surge through his whole being. "Joseph Smith and his golden Bible! Bah!" Suddenly the sermon of the afternoon rang in his ears. "We profess to be Zion. Zion is the pure in heart." Could a people making such professions have been organized under so vile a deception? He must investigate. He would read the book. So he thanked Sister White and retired to his room. Karl Rochell found himself confronted with the greatest problem he had ever tried to solve. Had he really found the "pearl of great price" for which he had sought all his life? He took the book in his hands and bowed his knees before his Father in heaven and besought him for wisdom and understanding that if he had found the truth he might be able to recognize it, but that he should not be deceived by fraud. He then sat down to read the Book of Mormon and became so interested that he read until far into the night. During the days that followed he spent all his leisure moments perusing its pages. Before he had finished reading the book, he was convinced that it was of God and that the religion professed by the "Mormon" people was of divine origin. Bishop Roundy was somewhat surprised the following Sunday morning when the young professor approached him and applied for baptism. After a few moments consideration he informed him that it was customary to perform baptisms on Fast day and confirm members of the Church at the Fast meeting. "Young man," said Bishop Roundy, placing his hand on his shoulder in a fatherly way, "I would advise you to continue your investigations and as next Thursday is the Fast day, if you are still in the same frame of mind, we will then perform the ordinance." "Suppose I should die in my sins?" queried the enthusiastic applicant. "You are a healthy-looking young man," smilingly replied the Bishop. "I think you will live until Thursday." So Karl Rochell waited and studied and prayed, until the following Thursday morning when he was baptized in the waters 
 of City Creek and at the Fast meeting confirmed a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. That night as he lay upon his bed thanking and praising the Lord for his blessings, a light seemed to enter his room, and beside his bed, stood his mother. She spoke no word, but the smile on her countenance convinced him she was pleased with what he had done. He felt that her promise had been fulfilled, and she, though in the spirit world, had been instrumental in leading him to the land of Zion.