[Vol24 | August 1937 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Life and Letters of Hales]

THE next ten years Galsworthy spent reading, writing, playing tennis (in which he was far too great THE LIFE AND LETTERS an individualist ever to play doubles really well) horse-back riding, traveling, always giving generously of his time and money. He and Ada were particularly happy in assisting the numerous members of the Galsworthy clan. While Galsworthy wrote, Ada, "the scent and the colour and the shape of his life," would work among her flowers. She filled the highest function of all in bringing beauty into Galsworthy's life but she helped him in many other ways. For thirty years she was his secretary. Galsworthy's letters, kindly, encouraging, honest and interesting pay many tributes to Ada. In one he writes—'I think of her sometimes as a piece of rare silk, with a bloom on it as delicate as that on grapes, but which you can't rub off."" Yes— the years between 1922-1932 were happy ideal years for them both. N November, 1932, Galsworthy received the Nobel Literature Prize. The Prize money—something over 9000 pounds—he made a Trust Fund for the benefit of the P. E. N.
Club with its Centres in thirty-five different countries.
About the same time he made his final living appearance before the public with his novel, Flowering Wilderness.
After this the shadows began closing in fast about him.
Slight ailments which he had long resolutely ignored began to appear more markedly.
Then came the day when he remarked: "You had better look at me well now, because it's the last time you'll ever
OF JOHN GALSWORTHY 493 see me quite well again." He was right.
Everything seemed just a little more difficult to do.
Gradually he became confined to his room and then to his bed. His nephew records: "Not one word or gesture of complaint did he ever show through all the indignities of the sick room. He just looks, and looks, and looks." His last conscious contact with the world was to gently caress the sorrowful face of Ada. Of his death H. V.
Marrot says: "One rebels at the thought that such a man, with so much yet to give, with so much service yet to do, should thus untimely be swept away, that one whose life of mercy more than most had deserved mercy at the hands of Life, should have died as he did. But he outlived neither his art nor his love. His last conscious moments were brightened and made sweet by his beloved Ada.
Instead of protesting against Life let us find a source of pride in his career, and encouragement in his example.
None that ever knew him can lose him from their hearts while they live: and, in the time that must come, when none are left who looked into his face, who heard his voice, who touched his hand, when this poor record is all that remains to conjure up the living man he was, his works —so like himself—will still endure to speak for him.