[Vol24 | August 1937 | Sequence: 36 | Category: Article | Title: Side]

side of infant training.
Play or free activity should not be emphasized to the neglect of this very essential part of the child's training.
Later other chores may be assigned for regular attendance and built into habits that will to some extent become automatic also.
Routine and chores have an important relationship to play.
Later in the life of the child play is a release from control; but if there is no control through routine and chores, how can play have its full value?
Work may be made a condition for play by such teaching as the following: "Now, Jimmy, let's hurry and put the play things away and see how quickly and well you can wash for dinner so you can get back to your play that much sooner." If regular routine as to meal time has been established, hunger sensations will be present at this moment and will make dinner look like a pleasant diversion from play. We are all familiar with how even chickens can be taught to be hungry at a regular feeding time. The freedom that comes from getting the routine "over with" so the child can do as he pleases again makes real play possible.
Play life for the only child, or the child in a small apartment or dwelling, suffers frequently from the interference of the parents.
Interruption of activities in progress for the child (or adult) is distinctly distasteful at best.
When the parent persistently shouts for the child to be quiet, to go somewhere else, or not to play with the telephone or sewing machine, his play life is definitely hampered and he may even fall victim of a certain degree of the treacherous feeling that he is not wanted.
What is really wrong in a home where this happens? The parents have not taken the child's need LESSON DEPARTMENT for play seriously enough and have not made proper provision for it. A special room for the child or children to play in is as important as any other room in the house. It should be constructed so that there is little danger of damage to the room or injury to the child, and when he is in his room he should be king.
Places should be provided for putting away toys and play materials, and proper light, heat, and ventilation should be provided so that the room will be pleasant in every respect. A number of cheerful pictures are often valuable aids to this end.
Since the child's need for play is as real as his need for food, he should be provided with ample materials suited to his stage of mental development. A number of guides to the play materials most suitable for various ages are now available, such as, "Play and Playthings," by Wolf and Boehm, (distributed by Child Study Association of America, 54
West 74th St., New York City).
Plain blocks, large and small, brightly colored, are especially desirable for small children because they permit much building up and tearing down, and permit so many novel tasks the child can set for himself. At a later age, Tinker Toys and the mechanical building sets are perhaps the most desirable type of playthings as well as the least expensive in the long run. Wind-up toys are not usually to be recommended because they so often have sharp edges, their paints sometimes contain poisonous amounts of lead, and the springs usually break within a few days.
Provide plenty of paper to cut up and mark with crayons and a small blackboard if possible, also picture books in abundance.
Teach the child to make as many of his own toys as possible, for the enjoyment 539 of making them is often as great as in using them. A well planned play room will soon become the most favored haunt in the house, and it will save the work and trouble of having the play things all over the house. The child should be left as much alone in the play room as is consistent with safety and peace among the other children.
Occasionally the mother should interfere to settle difficulties among the children and to see that the child follows his daily routine. She should see that the child has plenty of interesting materials at hand and sometimes even play with him to get him interested in some new activity, but in general she should leave him to himself as much as possible.
Before two years of age, as we saw in the lesson on social development, the child takes little interest in cooperating with playmates. It is not necessary, therefore, to provide playmates before this age and the child should be taught to play alone rather than to depend too much upon people to provide his amusement.
After two years, however, he does begin to take an interest in other children and will play first in pairs and later in larger groups. It is important to see that the child has playmates of suitable age after he is two years of age. His social development is greatly hindered when he has no opportunity to learn to share with others and to cooperate with them.
Outside play is generally to be preferred to indoor because it is more healthful, and because it gives the child more opportunity for a wide range of activity.
After about four years of age, children generally become interested in group games with progressively more complex tules.
These games generally call 540 for plenty of room.
Some parents make the mistake of putting the growth of a beautiful flower bed ahead of the development of the child. If possible a special yard of sufficient size should be provided for outdoor games. A certain amount of play apparatus can be constructed at a small cost and should be considered a necessity in any home building program. (For suggestions on economical out-door play materials see "The Child from One to Six," Publication No. 30, Children's Bureau, U. S.
Department of Labor.) Many parents say, "Yes, my child will play; but what can I do to make him work?"
Children should probably be taught early in their lives that some things must be done other than tasks of their own choosing.
Routine in infant care is a good preparation for work habits in later years. The task should be carefully chosen and should not tax the child's strength and sense of responsibility so much that he will be forced to fail.
Choose first those things that you are sure he can and will do, then gradually build his sense of responsibility by more difficult tasks, taking special care always to avoid a breakdown in his willingness.
Naturally the more interest the task holds, the more easily he can be motivated.
Some chores about a home are simply too dull for the child to ever want to do them for their own sake, in which event the parent must look for ways to motivate him. An appeal can sometimes be made to his selffeelings by pointing out his value and usefulness to you.
Everyone likes to feel that he is necessary to someone else.
Expression of appreciation is often neglected by the parent, and naturally when the job is distasteful the child cannot be expected to do it cheerfully unless he RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE gets something out of it in the way of praise, sense of being useful, or some material reward.
Sometimes he can be shown that everyone has to do things he or she does not like to do, and that mother herself often does tasks for the child because she is interested in him and that the child should do likewise.
This is dangerous ground, however, because devotion to mother can easily be overworked as a motive, and the devotion roc the work are both likely to sufer. It is possible for a parent to cultivate in the child an extreme distaste for work by forcing him to do drudgery with no other incentive except that she tells him to do it. We should look from the child's point of view whenever we set a task for him to do and take care that we do not ask the impossible.
This does not mean that we should bribe him into doing everything we ask, but it means that we should set up some kind of incentive whenever we ask a difficult task. Dr. Goddard, who has had much experience in the training of dull boys relates the following incident to illustrate how the ego feelings of the child can be used to lead him to do the work: "John... Is one of the farmer boys, he has been carefully trained and can plough and harrow and drive a team and do various other work when once it is planned out for him. One morning he came over to the stable and the farmer said to him, 'John, you can plough that field today,' but John was not feeling happy.
Perhaps he had a bit of indigestion, or he had not slept well. He did not appear with his usual good nature, and as a consequence he replied to the farmer, 'Ain't goin' to plough that field today.' To which the farmer replied pleasantly, 'Not going to plough the field, what do LESSON DEPARTMENT you want todo?' 'Nothing.' 'Nothing?
Well all right, do you want to go back to the cottage and rest today? 'I don't know, I don't know, I don't want to do nothing.' 'All right, John, you just do nothing today. You just have a good time doing nothing. I'll find somebody to plough the field and you can do nothing all day. Of course, I am sorry that you don't feel like ploughing the field, because while I can find somebody to plough it, there isn't anybody that can plough it quite so nicely as you can. And the farmer worked about, pretending to do something but in reality waiting for John.
John could not withstand that little bit of flattery?any more than a normal person. The fact is, it made him happy and the moment he was happy the whole situation changed.
After a few minutes he came along, perhaps rather sheepishly and said, 'Well, I guess I'll plough the field.' He got the thing that made him happy." (Goddard, H. H., Psychology of the Normal and Subnormal, pp. 324, 325.) Old and young alike need a balance between work and play.
Mothers would have better mental health if they would give themselves up to play more often. If a sharp dis- 541 tinction is drawn between work and play in the home, a great step is taken toward eliminating dawdling, procrastination, and slovenliness. The habit of working while we work so that we can really play while we play is invaluable for old and young. Problems For Discussion 1.
Show how play contributes to muscular, intellectual, and personality growth. 2. Why is excessive parental interference incompatible with real play? 3.
Characterize the difficulties you would expect the child to meet on his first steady job as an adult when he has never done any chores or regular work at home.
What difficulties in marriage would you expect a girl to meet when she has grown up under a mother who has always assumed all responsibility for the "chores"? 4.
What is the effect on the child when the parents are too arbitrary in insisting that he do dull tasks without proper incentives? 5.
What concrete measures can you take to improve the conditions in your home so that the children will have better play opportunities?