EDITORIAL    REUIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: - - ClarissaA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - Alice Louise REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop' s Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 

Vol. XII AUGUST, 1925 No. 8 Home and Parenthood Running like a thread through the recent conference of social work in Denver was the general theme of the home as a means of moral development. It assumed two phases?first the imperative need of some sort of training for parenthood before young persons enter upon this stage of their life, and second, the home, more than the past must endeavor to carry out its share of responsibility with the school and the church for the morals of the children and the young people. Also this same thought was urged upon the American nation by the conference of educators held last month in Indianapolis. It appears, therefore, that thinking people everywhere in this country are seeking to create stronger bulwarks for the home. Very gratifying indeed it is to know that the Latter-day Saints have all along stressed the value of the home as a nursery for morality. Perhaps no community, unless it be the ancient Hebrews, has placed greater emphasis upon the family life. And this from the very first. Children, with them as with the Old Testament Jews, have been and are still "the heritage of the Lord." Also they have adapted such means as will promote the virtues of the home life. They usually have family prayers night and morning; they generally have weekly home evenings. Families, after the children have grown up, aim to keep up the home spirit by family reunions. Then too, like the Roman Catholics, the Church frowns upon divorce and everything else that tends to break up the home. 
 But the "Mormon" people go a step further. In a day when marriage is being viewed more and more by certain classes as a mere contract that can be broken at will, the Saints have surrounded the marriage vow by the sanctity of religion. The ceremony, when under the sanction of the Church, is performed in the most sacred building known to the Saints?the temple. Special clothing, worn only on sacred occasions, is put on for the purpose. And the ceremony itself is binding in eternity as well as in time. Thus there is the suggestion of permanence in the home. In the next world as in this, the Saints teach, the home will continue to be a social unit, where love is the basis of all happiness. Recreation After the instinct of hunger and of sex none is so deepseated in man as the instinct for play. Recreation comes from a word meaning "to revive, to freshen, to make new." As water is to the thirsting flowers or food to the hungry man, so is recreation to the boy or girl worn out by the drudgery we call work. At its normal, human nature is resilient as an elastic ball. "Man is the only animal that can laugh." Since this instinct is not to be suppressed but guided, it follows that opportunity must be provided for its outlet. Otherwise it will make its own?like a stream that has been dammed up. Who is to provide this necessary recreation? The young and inexperienced, who do not know the approach to the pitfalls? Or the man or the institution whose only purpose is to make money by furnishing new thrills? Or the community or the church, whose main concern is human welfare? To ask these questions is already to answer them. How pitifully short-sighted it was in the beginning, whenever that was, for the community to license private individuals or corporations to direct the amusement of its youth. Then was the time?in the beginning?to set the movement on its foot, to turn its face in the right way. For after a thing has once got a start, it is very difficult to alter its course, let alone to stop it altogether. But that is the ideal, nevertheless, in all recreational programs?public control of recreational sources. Is there a dance hall to be established, a resort to be opened, a play house to be built? Let the community or the church bestir itself before any private interests can lay hold of these means of recreation. For as sure as fate itself, private interests will follow the lines of least resistance to the dollar, and the highest good can take care of itself. And this from the very nature of things, rather than from any desire to corrupt the youth, No man or set of men should be allowed to exploit the normal instincts of boys and girls, anywhere or anytime. Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Poem ANNOUNCEMENT 1925 The memorial shall be known as the Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Poem, and shall be awarded by the Relief Society annually. RULES OF THE CONTEST 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, but only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. Two prizes will be awarded?a first prize consisting of $20 and a second prize consisting of $10. 2. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written, and should be without signature or other identifying marks. 3. Only one side of the paper should be used. 4. Each contestant guarantees the poem submitted to be her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of any editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 5. Each poem must be accompanied with a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. 6. No member of the General Board, nor persons connected with the office force of the Relief Society, shall be eligible to this contest. 7. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. 8. The poem must be submitted not later than October 15. The prize poems will be published each year in the January - issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Other poems of merit, not winning special awards, will receive honorable mention; the editors claiming the right to publish any poems submitted, the published poems to be paid for at the regular Magazine rates. All the entries should be sent to Alice L. Reynolds, Associate editor, Relief Society Magazine, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not later than October 15.