Vitamines By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education Vitamines are probably the most talked of food substances at the present time. Their history and development are the result of painstaking experiment in animal feeding and the careful study of cause and effect of diet on humans. Several diseases are now well defined which seem closely related to the consumption of limited variety or poorly selected foods. While interest at the present time is keen in this important food factor it seems well here to offer a word of caution. Vitamines are only one of several important elements in nutrition. No less authority than Dr. Mary Swartz Rose says that altogether too much emphasis is being placed on vitamines. The old adage, "Be not the first the new to try nor yet the last. To lay the old aside," might well apply to the science of nutrition. Good standards in nutrition do not require mad chasing after food fads. In order, however, to profit by the many painstaking experiments and careful conclusions reached by a number of men who are devoting their lives to this field, it seems wise to give their findings some consideration. The term vitamin was coined in 1912 by Cassimar Funk and means "life giving" because diets in which the vitamines are lacking prolong life without growth only a short time and then death results if changes are not effected in the diet. The history and development of the so called vitamin is full of interest to the student of science. It also has an appeal for the homemaker because it helps her to understand the great importance of having foods in right amounts and kind if she would increase the resistance and improve the health standards of her family. In fact intelligent meal planning and satisfactory food preparation is much more interesting if some attention is given to the better known vitamines A, B, and C. The term vitamin would better be considered as a family name. Vitamines D, E, and X have already been added to the list. It is more than probable that additional members will be discovered and that their function and uses in the body will be quite as interesting as any information we now have regarding A, B, C. Other experimenters have applied different terms of these so called "Accessory food factors." Much of the discussion on them has been highly technical but the laymen need also to know something as to what they are and what their functions are in the body. Vitamines A, B, and C, deal with the cause and cure of three diseases which result from their absence. Contrary to popular opinion this development is less recent than is popularly supposed. The first interest expressed in relation of food selection and health VITAMINES 423 was in connection with one of the present so called deficiency diseases known as scurvy as early as 1920, Kramar wrote that neither medicine nor surgery could give relief in scurvy. His experiments proved that the use of green vegetables and antiscorRAT A Rat A. The diet for this rat consisted of food products which are essentially storage organs of plants such as grains and roots and muscle meats. This diet is low in ash constituents and vitamin A and is inadequate for growth. RAT B Rat B. The diet of this rat was similar in every respect to that shown in Rat A except a generous use of milk was given this rat. The addition of this so called protective food made the othe~- wise unsatisfactory diet adequate. 
 butic juices would, without the use of medicines, cure this disease which for many years has meant suffering and death where men were deprived of fresh foods for more than six weeks at a time. In further confirmation of this belief in 1804 the British Navy had lemon juice as a part of the regular ration. At the present time the juices of citrus fruits, raw cabbage, sauerkraut and green leaf vegetables are recognized for their antiscorbutic qualities. Radical changes in dietary customs have often resulted in disease. This is noticeably true in the development of beri beri in the Japanese army. Between the years 1878-1882 this disease was much more prevalent than previous to this time. Careful study and much experimentation showed that this disease resulted when the Japanese soldiers were put on a diet consisting largely of polished rice rather than the unpolished rice which had been customary before this period. The controlling factor in this change in dietary customs was later found to be the so called Vitamin B. Much of our knowledge of vitamines has been the result of careful experiments in animal nutrition. Workers along this line of research sought to determine values of different kinds of foods by feeding diets having carefully controlled amounts of pure proteins, carbohydrates and fats. Hopkins as early as 1906 determined and reported that "no animal can live upon a mixture of pure protein, carbohydrate and fat, even when the necessary inorganic material is carefully supplied, as the animal cannot flourish without the presence of vitamines in the diet. The animal body is adjusted to live either upon plant tissues or other animals and these contain countless substances other than the proteins carbohydrates and fats." In these experiments with animals it was found that when the diet was inadequate for proper growth or maintenance a small addition of milk would often make the limited diet adequate. In the early experiments much confusion resulted from the addition of milk as the experimenters did not realize that not one but three valuable vitamines A, B, C, were contained in this so called "most perfect food." The present keen interest in nutrition results from two factors. One of these is the outgrowth of a long series of animal experimentation, while the other is a study of cause and effect of different food combinations on human beings. The experimental work with animals by McCollum and Block and Hopkins, Mendell and Sherman paved the way for the conclusions regarding effects of wrong diet upon the individual and group. Animal experimentation further proved that effects of poor diet are cumulative, and that if wrong diet is persisted in during several generations results are more marked in each succeeding generation: by lack of vitality, increased infant mortality, and early aging. Considerable impetus was given to the study of foods con- VITAMINES 425 taining vitamin A during the war because of eye sickness or zerothalmia which was prevalent among the children of some of the Scandinavian countries. A study of the epidemics showed that this resulted when the diet lacked foods containing vitarnin A. In the countries most affected, all of the butter fat and cod liver oil had been shipped out to help win the war. Spectacular cures were effected when the addition of one or both of these valuable sources of vitamin A were made to the limited diet. More recent studies in rat colonies have discovered other sources of vitamin A. Green leaf vegetables have been found satisfactory supplementary means of supplying this valuable vitamin when there is little butter in the diet. The Japanese, whose milk supply is extremely limited, make generous use of diffrent kinds of green leaves. Absence of foods containing vitamine A, may cause the socalled deficiency disease zerothalmia or eye sickness. Lack of vitamin B may cause pellagra which is one of the best known deficiency diseases. Partial absence of these food substances may cause much suffering, death in terms of high infant mortality, physical inefficiency, early aging and poor teeth. The present tendency to live on foods low in ash and vitamines is producing far too many cases of borderline nutrition. The so called typical American diet, according to McCollum, of bread, 'meat, potatoes and pie is low in ash and vitamines. More attention must be given to increased consumption of milk, green leaf vegetables, root vegetables, fresh fruits and some whole grains. The diet of the nursing mother should contain a generous amount of food containing vitamin C in order to protect the child from this disease. From studies made by the American Medical Society it has been found: That breastfed babies are much less apt to develop scurvy. That the use of raw cow's milk causes little scurvy. That the use of pasteurized milk causes considerable scurvy. That the use of condensed cow's milk causes about four times as much scurvy as pasteurized milk. That the use of proprietary foods cause the greatest number of cases of scurvy. Their records show that out of 366 cases studied 214 resulted from the use of proprietary foods. When milk is the chief food of young infants less danger of scurvy results. When the proportion of milk is decreased and the use of cereals increased then the amount of anti-scorbutic fruit juices (oranges, lemons, raspberries, tomatoes) should be increased. Because of the danger in milk that isn't produced under absolutely clean conditions it is becoming more and more customary to use milk that has been heated or pasteruized. When this is done additional care must be taken to protect the baby from scurvy 
 by making small additions of fruit and vegetable juices containing vitamin C. Infantile scurvy was recognized in 1894 and has developed since it has been possible to rear a larger number of babies, since proprietary foods, condensed, and pasteurized milk, have been used. The discovery of vitamin C and its functions has been one of the biggest factors in decreasing infant mortality. In addition to the easily detected cases of scurvy there are many cases of border malnutrition which are really borderline cases of scurvy where the patient is below his optimum state of health. Scurvy develops gradually. The sufferer loses weight, is anaemic pale, weak and short of breath. Scurvy always means lack of appetite. When there is only a limited amount of green vegetables in the diet, do not overcook. This also applies to fruits, as fruit jellies made quickly are more valuable than those cooked over a longer period. In Conclusion The chief sources of vitamin A are milk and milk products, green leaf vegetables, liver, egg yolk, tomatoes. 'Some little vitamin A is found in grains. The chief source of vitamin B are grains, tomatoes, citrus fruits, green leaf vegetables, root vegetables, nuts, milk and yeast. The chief source of vitamin C are citrus fruits, raspberries, tomatoes, green leaf vegetables and milk. The functions of the vitamines are: Vitamin A helps to resist disease. Vitamin A is important for general stamina. Vitamin A is important for reproduction and lactation. Vitamin A is not destroyed by heat in ordinary food preparation. Lack of Vitamin A inhibits growth for a time. Lack of Vitamin A increases susceptibility to infection. Vitamin B is necessary for appetite. Vitamin B is necessary for maintaining weight. Vitamin B is necessary for normal growth. Vitamin B is necessary for increasing weight. Vitamin C is necessary for protection against scurvy. Vitamin C is necessary for growth. Diets consisting largely of muscle meats, finely milled flours, purified sugars and fats are inadequate from the standpoint of vitamines. Every meal should contain some vitamines. Every day's dietary should contain some vitamines A, }, C. Pictures courtesy of Dr. E. V. McCollum?John Hopkins University. Out of Work By Martha Hartford Webb The following play "Out of Work" was presented at the officers' meeting of the official conference held April 2, 1925, in the Bishop's building. In response to the demand for the play by Relief Society workers, the General Board has received permission from the author to publish it in The Magazine. It may be presented by any of the wards or stakes. There is no royalty charge. CHARACTERS: A Working Man Pattie AVIS......... His Wife Their Child Ellen Morris. Visitor for the Family Service Society Scene I (A poor room with a couch, a small table, three chairs. A picture or framed motto askew on the wall, soiled dishes on the table, bedding in disorder. Annie, worried and half sick, seated rocking Jessie, the child sick and listless. She rises and lays Jessie on the couch, laying an old cover over her. The child turns away from the light.), (Enter Will from outer door. He takes off his hat and lays it down, then as A. Straightens up and looks at him, he throws up his hands in a gesture of despair, and drops into a chair.) A. Oh, Will, I did hope you'd get a job today! (Turns away with her arm over her face.) W. We might as well give up, Annie. Tramped the town all day?tried everything between here and Steelton?asked for jobs from house to house. Ten months of it! Annie, I'm beat. A. (Coming toward him impulsively) Oh, Will, I wa'nt meanin' to blame you, I know how you've tried. Oh, why ain't I strong enough to be some good! I'm jest a drag on you, sick this way half the time. W. (Getting up and putting his hand on her shoulder.) There, there Annie it's havin' you and the little girl that's kept me goin'. (Turning to the couch, where the child lies motionless. ) How's Jessie been to-day? A. Oh, she's been like that all day, Will. She ain't got anything but a cold, but there don't nothin' she eats seem to suit her. W. It ain't warm enough for her here, Annie. Why don't you have her in the kitchen by the fire? (A. Covers her face with her hands. W. Looks at her a moment, then exits by the inner door. In a moment he returns, his head down.) A. I burned the very last of it this morning, Will. 
 W. (Throwing back his shoulders and trying to speak cheerfully. Now don't worry, Annie. I'll likely get an odd job tomorrow, and get a bushel of coal. As long as Jones is lettin' us have groceries, we'll get along. Onein (Starting and lifting her head, comes toward him timidly.) ill! W. (With the sharpness of anxiety). Well, what now? A. Why, I went in to get some milk for Jessie this afternoon?we ain't been getting much but meal and potatoes and such, you know?and she wouldn't eat 'em, so I went for the milk? and he said?he said?he couldn't let us have any more stuff. (W. Throws up his hand and turns away.) He had a family of his own to keep?and we'd got behind so far?(she pauses and speaks low) we ought to be askin' for help. W. Asking for help. 'A. (Desperately.) Yes, he said that was what the Family Service Society was for, and we ought to go to them?and he'd phone for me, if I couldn't leave Jessie so long. Oh, Will, I felt so awful, I knew how you'd feel, and I said, no, you'd likely get a job today, and I came home. And then?I got a notice that we'd have to pay up the back rent or move. And Jessie woke up and cried for milk?and I went back and told Mr. Jones to call them up. (Will sits down with his face hidden. Annie puts her hand timidly on his shoulder). A. You ain't mad at me, are you, Will? W. What else can we do?unless we jump into the river? (Jumps up and walks around wildly.) That's the place for me. I guess. You'd get along better without me. What good am I anyhow, can't keep my own kid from starving! (He makes for the outer door, seizing his hat. A. Runs to him frightened, catching his arm. Just as he takes the knob, a knock comes from without. He backs away. A. Stands a moment, hand on heart, recovering herself, then she opens the door. Enter Visitor, a bottle of milk in her hand. She turns to A. Smiling.) V. You are Mrs. Davis? I am Ellen Morris, of the Family Service Society. (W. Retreats another step, pulling a chair in front of him.) Your grocer called me up and said you were in trouble, so I came around to see what we could do. (She comes forward to the table, and ignoring the tension in the atmosphere, sets down the milk and her bag, and begins to take off her gloves.) I believe we are going to have rain before night. (Turns to couch.) And the little girl is sick? What is her name? A. (Gulping before she can speak.) Jessie. V. Why, that is my sister's name! The grocer thought she might like some milk, so I just brought some with me. (Goes to couch.) But she's asleep now. What a sweet little thing she is! OUT OF WORK 429 (Comes back and takes a chair.) Now won't you tell me all about it? I'm sure we can find a way out. (A. Comes forward slowly and sits down. W. Motions her to speak. ) A. Why, we were pretty well fixed a couple of years back, but Will got the flu, and he couldn't work for a long spell after. That took all we'd saved, but we kept going, I got a place clerking and Will minded little Jessie, and when he got back to work, we thought we'd get another start. But then little Billy came? we couldn't save any more?I wa'nt well and things was awful high?and he was only a year old?(she breaks down, covers her face with her apron and sobs. ( Pause.) W. We lost him a year ago, and Annie ain't never been well since. Just about then the steel plant closed down, and I've been walkin' the streets every day since?there jest ain't any work. V. You worked in the steel mills then, Mr. Davis? Is there any other kind of work you can do? (Jessie wakes and sits up, she reaches rapturously for the milk on the table. V. Takes up the milk.) A. Wait a minute, I'll get you a glass. (Exit to kitchen, returning with glass. V. Pours out milk and takes it to child, who drinks eagerly, then drops back against her mother who sits on the head of the couch, while V. Leans down over her.) V. Her hands are hot, do you think she has a little fever? Have you seen a doctor? A. The doctor was in yesterday, he said it was only a bad cold, but she was run down, and to give her milk and eggs. Milk and eggs! V. She will be better now, I think. 'And you need coal? We can see to that. Now do you suppose some of your people could help? Do they live near here? (W. Glances at A.) A. I ain't got a soul livin'! My father and mother died when I was just a little mite. We come from England, and I don't know the folks over there. And Will, he might as well not have none either, his father won't help him though he's got a good little business out in Kansas. Think (pointing to Jessie excitedly) this child's grandpa runnin' a grocery, and her cryin' for milk. (Sinks down and hides her face on Jessie's hair.) W. No, no, Annie, you mustn't blame Dad. (Turns to V.) I was a fool them days, lady, I jest wouldn't work. I loafed and ran with the boys. Dad give me chance after chance to work in the store for him, but I wouldn't pay no attention to business, and finally we had a fuss, and I left. (Rises and walks front.) I tell you, since I've had Annie and Jessie to look after, I've seen things different. But it's too late now. (Sits down again.)
V. Have you written to him since you were married?


W. Yes, I wrote after Jessie was born; but I never got no answer. I saw a man from there only last month, and he said Dad was alive and well, only he looked like he was getting old.
V. You were getting along well when you wrote before, it might be different now. Where does he live?
W. In Kansas City, on Highland St., the name's John Davis. But there ain't no use my writing. You don't know Dad, he's awful set.
V. We'll see what we can do, there's always a way out. (Rising.) Now here's an order on the grocer that will keep you going for a few days. (She lays it on the table, W. draws back from it.) And how about your rent?
A. We're paying fifteen dollars here and we're way back on it. They've sent us notice to move. The agent lives right over there on that corner.
V. I'll see him about it. And I'll send in some coal at once, we must keep Jessie warm. (Patting child's head as Annie stands holding her.) Cheer up, times will be better. (A. sets the child down and goes to the table to pick up the order, but drops it as Will speaks).
W. I never thought I'd have to ask for charity.
V. We don't consider this as a gift at all. It's an investment in you, and our returns will be to see Jessie well and strong, and your home happy. I'll be in again in a few days. Goodbye. (Exit.)
A. Goodbye. (Approaches Will.) Will, I can't help feeling better. She was kind now, wasn't she?
W. (Slowly.) Yes, she was. And she didn't seem to look down on a feller either; Annie, I feel most like trying again.
CURTAIN
Scene 2
(Same room in better order. Annie in a cleaner dress, sewing a button on a wrap for Jessie, who leans against her, watching. She finishes, puts wrap on child, and kisses her).
A. There, run along and play, dearie. If you get cold, you come right in to mother. (J. runs out. A. stands looking after her, then shuts the door and comes back to her sewing.) She's pickin' up every day now?and it's only two weeks since the doctor said she'd just missed pneumonia. Oh, I'm so glad, I'm so glad! (Hides her face in her work. Enter W., he goes behind A. and drops a few coins in her lap. She looks up delighted. He shrugs his shoulders.)
W. No great job yet, honey, but the Society put me on the track of this little one. Then?I don't know?it puts some heart into a man to know his wife and kid are warm and fed, and
OUT OF WORK 431
he can buck into things better. (Knock at door, W. opens it, enter V., he shakes hands with her warmly, A. jumps up and greets her.)
A. Why, Miss Morris, it's nice to see you again so soon.
V. And how's Jessie today?
A. She's out playing, she's as well as she can be. Will, you go call Jessie, you know how bad she felt because she missed Miss Morris last time, she'll be tickled to death. (Exit W.) Oh, Miss Morris, that day you come first?
W. (Outside.) Jessie, oh, Jessie!
A. I don't know where we'd a been if there hadn't been somebody like you to turn to. Will, he scared me, I was feared?and now, why, he's a different man. Of course, we ain't out of it yet, and it worries him dreadful that he ain't got a job, but he feels like he had something to stand on.
W. (Outside.) Jessie!
A. And you did it so nice, it didn't seem like we was?beggin'?you helped us just like you was a friend.
V. (Enter W.) We've heard from your father, Mr. Davis. (W. and A. look at each other hopefully.) The office in Kansas City hunted him up, and told him about you, how you felt, and about little Jessie. They sent us this letter for you. (Gets it out of her bag).
W. (Opens and reads, A. looking over his shoulder.) "Dear Will: "Seems like you are having hard luck. Mother never was satisfied after you left, and now she wants you should bring your wife and little girl for a visit. I could give you a job in the store, I guess." [Annie, Annie, he's going to give me a job!] "I'm aiming to send your tickets when I hear from you. I hope you have really settled down. "Your father, John Davis."
V. I'm surely glad you're going to get your new chance. (Enter Jessie, runs to V. and embraces her.) And with this little girl to look after, I know you'll make good.
W. I will that. And I won't forget what you folks have done for us, either. You've just about got us on our feet. I never could have got Dad to give me another chance. Most anybody will throw a feller an old pair of shoes or a basket o' stuff at Christmas, but you folks take the pains to put a man that's down and out where he can take care of himself again, and that's worth doing.
CURTAIN