[Healing by Mabel Jones Gabbott]

healing influence he feels while
635 WILLIAM COWPER performing daily, simple tasks in the presence of nature.
With an inner serenity that is pure in its innocence, and yet tinged by the tragedy of an unknown tomorrow, Cowper asked only that he might be able to relinquish the city's temptations of glitter and wealth to allow his worship of God to reign supreme: The dearest idol I have known, Whate'er that idol be, Help me to tear it from Thy throne, And worship only Thee. So shall my walk be close with God, Calm and serene my frame; So purer light shall mark the road.
That leads me to the Lamb. ("Walking with God," page 75, verses 5 and 6) Cowper is not one of our greatest writers, but in his poems we come to know a sweet spirit whom we can love, even as he loved others. His descriptions of nature (""The Task," pp. 76-77) are nostalgic, sincere, and 636 mellowed; his condemnation of London as a modern Babylon, his indignation at a world which practices slavery rather than brotherhood, accurately voice the growing romantic indignation at these evils, but the fire and scope of a great imaginative mind are not here. However, the final excerpt from "The Task," beginning I was a stricken deer that left the herd Long since; with many an arrow deep infixed My panting side was charged, when I withdrew | To seek a tranquil death in distant shades. (text, from Book III, "The Garden," page 79) contains somewhat of the personal note which enriches the remaining selections in our text, particularly "The Castaway" (page 82), which makes a genuinely powerful comparison between Cowper's own uncontains somewhat of the personal selections in our text, particularly he knows he can never be rescued. No voice divine the storm allayed, No light propitious shone, When, snatched from all effectual aid,  We perished, each alone: But I beneath a rougher sea, And whelmed in deeper gulfs than he. (text, page 83, lines 61-65) The tragedy and mystery of life are strong in Cowper; his own bewilderment at life's illogical offering, in turn, bewilders us. But even more we remember him for the more characteristic serenity he achieved amid the tranquil beauties of nature; his condemnation of the growing evils stemming from city and factory; and the all-encompassing love he felt for God and those near him during his troubled existence.
Note to Class Leaders It is suggested that one or two hymns of Cowper's might be selected as songs for the meeting, such as "God Moves in a Mysterious Way."
Questions for Discussion 1. How is Gray's classical training revealed in his writings? 2.
Discuss some of the romantic elements of his "Elegy." Why has it enjoyed so universal a popularity? 3. Why is Cowper considered a preromantic poet? 4. How do his writings reveal his awareness of his insanity? ITlusic— Fundamentals of Musicianship APPRECIATION, CONDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING Lessons for Union Meetings for 1951-52
Lesson 11—Increased Proficiency in Conducting and Hymn Singing Florence Jepperson Madsen Objective: To improve hymn singing through more effective conducting. "The best days of the church have always been its singing days" (Cuyler). The Four-four (4/4) Baton Pattern (a) Learn and practice the 4/4 baton pattern in the textbook, page 11. Thm, beats one and three. (b) There are two accents in this rhyBeat one is strong and decisive; beat three is weak LESSON DEPARTMENT and about half as strong as beat one. (c) All even rhythms in which the upper figure is 4 are conducted with the 4/4 baton pattern, such as: 4/1, 4/2, 4/4, 4/8, 4/16, or, when this rhythm is represented with a large letter C. If the C appears with a vertical line drawn through it, and there are four half notes in a measure, or their equivalent, it is called long Alle Breve rhythm and is conducted with the same 4/4 pattern. (d) Practice this rhythm in large (maximum), medium (ordinary), and small (minimum) patterns. 1. The baton pattern retains its original characteristic shape whether or not it is used in large, medium, or small size. 2. Use the large pattern when conducting a chorus or congregation of considerable size singing in full volume.
Hymns like the following require this pattern: "Onward Christian Soldiers," starts with beat one (down beat). "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," starts with beat four (up beat). To make the large pattern use the arm fully. 3.
Apply the medium pattern to songs that are to be sung in moderate volume, such as the following: "There Is Beauty All Around," starts with beat one (down beat). "Redeemer of Israel," starts with beat four (up beat). | For the medium pattern use the forearm. 4.
Conduct with the small pattern songs, or parts of songs, that are to be sung with minimum volume. Examples: "Hushed Was the Evening Hymn," (New) Hymns, starts with beat one (down beat). "We Ever Pray for Thee,'' starts with beat one (down beat). For the small pattern use the forearm closer to the body with gentle motions of the baton, or, use the wrist with slight gestures. 5- The large, medium, and small patterns are frequently used interchangeably 637° in a composition according to the necessary graduation of volume, or in keeping with the character of the musical selection. Examples: "Glory to God in the Highest," (New) Hymns. "I Know That My Redeemer Lives." 6. In an art song, particularly, the conductor must constantly make changes in the volume to produce the desired effects in interpretation, Therefore, the three sizes of the pattern may be used alternately in one composition. (e) Practice the 4/4 baton pattern in hymns of your own choice, applying the large, medium, and small baton patterns. (1) Observe the natural accents of the thythm. (2) Conduct gracefully and with meaning. The point of the baton should lead in making all of the baton patterns. (f) The characteristic qualities of the 4/4 rhythm are: majestic, dynamic, motivating, devotional.
Examples are: "Arise, O Glorious Zion" "Oh Beautiful for Spacious Skies" "The Hallelujah Chorus" "Worthy Is the Lamb" (The last two numbers from the oratorio The Messiah, by Handel). The conductor should avoid pressing any part of the arm against the body when conducting.. The arm should be relaxed and pliable, and the elbows should not be extended upward or outward unnecessarily, Expression in Hymn Singing (a) It will be noted that the hymns regularly appear without expression marks. In most instances just the tempos are indicated.
While it is recognized that the hymn is to be sung as a free vocal expression of the congregation and that, pumarily, it is not to be considered as an art song; nevertheless, it is essential that the full intent of the word message shall be expressed.
This makes it necessary for the conductor to assume the responsibility of choosing and suggesting the needed expressions. However, cau- 638 tion should be exercised in the liberties Questions and Suggestions for Discussion thus taken. (b) The words of the text generally 1.
Describe the 4/4 baton pattern.
Suggest how they should be expressed. (c) Hymns in which it has traditional to make variations are: "America" (fourth stanza) "The Lord Is My Shepherd" "Come Unto Jesus" —  2.
Discuss the necessity of the three types. 3.
What are the characteristics of 4/4 thythm? 4. How may hymn singing be. Improved?
Become o=}P-o Ue Good eas: for Work Meeting Luncheons | 1 c.
Elbow macaroni 1 c. Cream 1 c.
Soft bread crumbs % oc. Butter 1 c. Grated American cheese 3 ©ggs Macaron! Loar Christine Eaton tbsp.
Chopped green pepper tbsp.
Chopped parsley tsp.
Onion juice tsp.
Salt tbsp.
Chopped pimiento a ee ee Cook macaroni in boiling salted water until tender, drain, and rinse in cold water.
Scald the cream and add bread crumbs, butter, seasoning, beaten eggs, and cheese.
Bake in moderate oven (325°) one half hour.
Serve with tomatoes or mushroom sauce.
Mushroom soup may be used for the sauce by thickening with a little butter, browned flour, and cream.
Serves about 8. 4 @ a q