[From Near and Far]

From Near and Far," July 1951). —Dorothy Clapp Robinson Boise, Idaho I am a subscriber to the Magazine and intend to send the copies I have received with my poems in to poet friends not of our faithh Who knows the good they may do? I am proud to have my friends receive copies of the publications of my Church. —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho I have long wanted to write and tell you of my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. 'The lessons and articles are very interesting and helpful. I also enjoy the stories. I wish that more members here could read English, so that they could get the good out of the Magazine. In the branch here in Chur no one speaks English, and I don't have enough time to translate the articles. —Elder Wayne D. Cheney Chur, Switzerland  'ruins mentioned therein. I have had numerous calls on the Mexican story ('Vacation in Mexico," July 1951). One woman said she was "so relieved."" Her daughter, it seems, is making the auto trip to Mexico with some friends from New York, and her mother was worried about their -safety. She talked to me a long time about it.
Anda number of others have said they are going to plan a vacation there. —Olive W. Burt Salt Lake City, Utah I can't tell you how much I enjoyed the last copy of The Relief Society Magaine (July). I am a missionary here in Mexico, and I can certainly verify everything that was said in "Vacation in Mexico" (by Olive W. Burt). I have had the opportunity of seeing some of the They are really a testimony to the truthfulness of The Book of Mormon. I really appreciate this fine Magazine. —FElder James Peterson Mexico City, Mexico I would just as soon be without salt in my pantry as without the Magazine on my bookshelf, so indispensable it has become to me. I wish to express my appreciation for the exceptionally fine article on fasting by President Milton R. Hunter ("Fasting and the Fast Day," July 1951). —B. A. Dickson Alpha, Washington The Magazine continues to be my favorite reading. The last issue (July) was full of worthwhile and beautiful things. I thoroughly enjoyed it from cover to cover.