[Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W.
Cannon dedication to the cause, Fatima continues to prove herself the nearequal of her famous brother, who has died. His powerful influence still remains with the people, however, aided by his sister's influence. MINNIE IVERSON HODAPP, American Fork, Utah, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, is the author of a book of poems, Flowering Moments on Temple Square, recently off the press. The poems are descriptive in character and inspirational in spirit, beautifully illustrating the feelings of a poet for her religious heritage as it is expressed in historic Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah. LELLA MARLER HOGGAN, "well-known and much - loved Utah author, died July 4, 1951, in Ogden. Her first published story appeared in The Young Woman's Journal in' 1896, and was followed by many artistic and inspirational writings published in the L. D. S.
Church magazines, including the three series of essays: "Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of life," "Little Moments of Eternity," and "The Sunny Side of the Hill," which, among many other contributions from this gifted woman, have appeared over the years in The Relief Society Magazine.  Q-> EDITORIAL = 
VOL. 
What Shall We Read to Children? HE, treasure house of books, well stored with beauty and truth, should be opened for all children.
They need the inspiration, the entertainment, the lasting companionship of books, and they need to have their pliable young minds directed along the paths of thoughts which will enrich their lives and uplift their spirits.
Although the great concept of the everlasting value and the eternal truths, which our most valued books reveal, must be a gradual growth within the mind, still the beginnings of discernment can take root and grow in the mind of a small child. The mother, the child, and a book, make an endearing portrait of one of the dearest aspects of home life.
Fortunate is the child who has listened to his mother read words of wonder and beauty at a time when his young mind was eager to learn and to explore the bright and shining avenues of the life before him. And yet, today, many mothers neglect this opportunity, and many children lack the close unity with their parents which the sharing of books would give them. It is so much easier to let the children see a moving picture or look at television, or listen to the radio.
Many mothers forget that it is usually difficult to exercise any choice of the entertainment presented by these mediums, for their quality cannot be estimated until  after the performances are over— and then it is too late.
With books, it is different, their content. Can be measured and appraised before they are presented to a child, and many books, easily obtainable, have endured the test of years and remain as treasures.
Mothers who sincerely wish to read to their children and who make an effort to be selective in the choice of material are confused by the great variety of books available, and they are not sure which stories and poems and pictures will be appealing to their children. 'The classics and some anthologies of poems for children are dependable, and many modern writings are to be recommended.
Side by side in enjoyment, a child may listen to Eugene Field's "Sugar Plum Tree," Robert Louis Stevenson's "Bed in Summer,' or be equally entertained by Walter de la Mare or A. A. Milne. It is helpful to seek the advice of teachers, librarians, and Primary Association officers. The Children's Friend, beautifully and carefully prepared and edited, is a good companion for Latter-day Saint children.
Early in the child's development he can be taught that books are valuable, that they are not to be torn and pulled to pieces.
Before very long a child may be given his own small bookcase where he can keep the storybooks and the poem books he loves, and a mother should see EDITORIAL that other children in the family are not allowed to destroy the books which another child treasures.
Children two and three years old love to hear poems read to them, especially poems which have definite rhyme and which have rhythm or music, and it is a strange and interesting truth, that a poem or a story which a child loves never loses its charm and there is the continued request for a repetition. It is not the quantity or the variety of reading material which is so important.
Rather it is the quality.
Parts of the Bible can be read to very small children. 'The mother may tell a Bible story, showing pictures of the events, and then she may intersperse her narrative by reading a few sentences directly from the Bible. For instance, in telling the story of the coming of Jesus to earth, these words, or other selections, may be read: "And the angel said unto them.
Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord."
There is perhaps no story which is more beautiful or has greater value than the Book of Mormon account 597 of the visit of Jesus to the Western Hemisphere. And it came to pass that he commanded that their little children should be brought. So they brought their little children and set them down upon the.
Ground round about him, and Jesus stood in the midst. And he took their little children, one by one, and he blessed them, and prayed unto the father for them. And he spake unto the multitude, and said unto them: Behold your little ones. (See 3
Nephi, chapter 17.) The hearing and reading and learning of good prose and poetry give the child acquaintance with good and beautiful words and thoughts, inspire good writing, and add worth and influence to speech and action. And there is always the greater, the more lasting value, the treasures found in books are lasting, and they provide joy and companionship forever available, forever influencing the mind toward the heights of growth and development. Let mothers be always vigilant in the precious days when their children are young, when their minds are open to receive truth and beauty —a heritage for their eternal lives. —V. P. C. G oodbye Little Boy Angelyn W. Wadley He could hardly wait to start to school, To work with pencil, book, and rule. I couldn't really wish he'd stay At home by me this special day. But do mothers always smile through tears, On the day that ends the pre-school years?