[Literature: Two Other Pre-Romantic Poets: Thomas Gray and William Cowper by Briant S. Jacobs]

Literature of England Lesson 19—Two Other Pre-Romantic Poets: Thomas Gray and William Cowper Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, December 18, 1951
Thomas Gray (1716-1771) HOMAS GRAY was born in London in 1716 to a poor father who neglected him, and to a mother who kept shop that he might have the education of a gentleman's son. At Eton and Cambridge he was steeped in the classics, which he loved throughout his life.
Here he began lifelong friendships with other cultivated youths, such as Horace Walpole, fourth Earl of Orford, with whom he made an extended tour of the Continent in 1739-41.
Upon his return, Gray continued perfecting himself as a scholar at Cambridge, and published occasional verses which revealed how completely he was in accord with the teachings of Pope and the neoclassical school.
After six years of exacting revision and polishing, he published his "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard," his best work, and the most famous prteromantic poem of the century. His later poems, notably "The Bard" and "The Fatal Sisters," reveal a strong interest in the ancient myths and legénds of Ireland, Wales, and Scandinavia.
Throughout his lifetime, Gray dabbled in verse as a cultivated hobby, in much the same spirit as he wrote an immense volume of letters to his friends. His real concern was to prepare himself to teach at Cambridge, where he lived  eS W = x ¥ =. WY = \ aaa =I Z = Hi BA VA ree, at N = om \\\, = y PSN xy ae fi: i. AY hd Ht "df, Ii} f Pipl yi a fi 5 Z nia Fd 0 pss! Aa + Wy. ¢ Ce, rc Gig' Bier SB% a { 22 ef Z yy a t aS 1 = 4 t THOMAS GRAY throughout his mature years. 'Thus it was that Gray was one of the best-read of English poets, having read thoroughly in the literatures of Greece and Rome, the great English writers, and Nordic legend and history.
Since he was an extremely shy man who never married and had but few acquaintances, it is but natural that much of his world of reality was contained in books and a sense of the past. In training and environment his life was one of cultivation, studied care, and classical discipline, all of which served to bind him to the neo-classical LESSON DEPARTMENT school of thought. Finally, after the long years of such preparation, he was granted a Cambridge professorship. He had held the post for only a few years when he was advised to travel for the sake of his health, which had always been delicate, but it was of no avail. He died in 1771 at the age of fifty-five and was buried next his mother in the churchyard of Stokes Poges, doubtless the scene of his "Elegy." One might well wonder how, with such training, friends, and a classically disciplined taste, Gray could ever be classed as a romantic.
After a careful reading of his "Sonnet on the Death of Richard West" which begins In vain to me the smiling mornings shine, And reddening Phoebus lifts his golden fire; The birds in vain their amorous descant join; Or cheerful fields resume their green attire (text, page 49) it seems incredible that, with 'his rigid form, such classical allusions as Phoebus rather than sun, and so unfeeling and artificial a line as the third, Gray could ever exhibit the unrestrained emotion commonly associated with romanticism. The truth is that, while exactness of form and word remained paramount to Gray throughout his life, the tone of his work became increasingly romantic. In 1742, the same year in which the above sonnet was written, Gray also wrote "Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College," which from its first lines Ye distant spires, ye antique towers, That crown the watery glade, 633
Where grateful Science still adores Her Henry's holy shade... (text, page 48) appears and sounds rigidly classical. Yet the poem proceeds to contrast the happy student surrounded by benevolent nature with his inevitable future sufferings caused by man's worldly passions. Yet see how all around 'em wait The ministers of human Fate, And black Misfortune's baleful train! Ah, show them where in ambush stand, To seize their prey, the murtherous band! Ah, tell them they are men! (text, page 48, lines 55-60) Yet ah! Why should they know their fate?
Since sorrow never comes too late, And happiness too swiftly flies, Thought would destroy their paradise. No more; where ignorance is bliss, "Tis folly to be wise. (text, page 49, lines 95-100) In his letters, too, we find attitudes characteristic of the growing romantic movement. In a letter from Turin, Italy, in 1739, he is enthralled by the grandeur of nature, an emotion most rare at so early a date. He writes that I do not remember to have gone ten paces without an exclamation, that there was no restraining: not a precipice, not a torrent, not a cliff, but is pregnant with religion and poetry. (text, page 1, line 20 ff.) The letter following explains his minute interest in ancient Roman ruins at the base of Vesuvius, while the final letter (page 64) tells of the accumulating evidence which should cause him to believe that Macpherson really was the author of Ossian, and yet how he cannot help believing that Ossian is actually 634 the work of some noble bard of ancient Scotland (see text, page 7). Of his own attempts at ancient Nordic poetry, he says, "I am gone mad about them" (page 65).
That his madness is conveyed to the poems themselves is everywhere evident in "The Bard" (page 55) and "The Fatal Sisters" (page 58), in which romantic scenery, vivid dramatic action and tone, and gruesome horror comprise the essence. Gray's "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard" has successfully created within itself the universal concern with death: how death wastes with lavish hand whatever talent or future the ordinary man might have had, and consigns him to remain unsung among mortals, and soon forgotten.
While the poem's flawless phrasing and unbroken harmony of tone and form have made its memorable lines some of the most quotable in the language, it is the mood of haunting melancholy, and the tender concern for the common man living the simple life next to nature that give emotional body and weight to Gray's carefully studied art of expression. Like Collins, his solemn mood of shadows and dusk is created and sustained by skilled use of word-sound: The curfew tolls the knell of parting day, The lowing herd winds slowly o'er the lea, The plowman homeward plods his weary way, And leaves the world to darkness and to me. (text, page so, lines 1-4). In pointing out what might have been, in contrast to the very real triumph of death, Gray uses a gentle but piercing irony which serves to  ennoble man as he bows beneath his common fate. / Perhaps in this neglected spot is laid Some heart once pregnant with celestial fire; Hands that the rod of empire might have swayed, Or waked to ecstasy the living lyre.
Full many a gem of purest ray serene The dark unfathomed caves of ocean bear; Full many a flower is born to blush unseen, And waste its sweetness on the desert air. (text, page 51, lines 45-48, 53-56) Again in the epitaph Gray immortalizes the dignity and resignation of men as they accept the finality of death. Thus, while in form and finish Gray's Elegy reveals his rigid classical discipline, its melancholy concern with nature, death, and the unsung virtues of the common man give it eminent place in the pre-romantic movement. William Cowper (1731-1800) (Pronounced Cooper) "God moves in a mysterious way, his wonders to perform." 'True as this statement might be of events and people, these words from one of the best-known Methodist hymns apply to the life of their author as well.
Plagued by a recurring insanity which engulfed him at least four times during the last forty-five years of his life, Cowper became one of the greatest of English hymn-writers, a writer of letters which have become famous as a revelation of a frank, tortured soul, and a preromantic poet who during the last two decades of the eighteenth century enjoyed a wide following.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Cowper was never very close to his father, a country minister, but though his mother died when Cowper was six years old, she influenced him so profoundly that she became one of the guiding forces of his life. An extremely delicate, sensitive child, Cowper feared his bullying classmates and most everyone else. He was a distinguished scholar, and was admitted to the bar, but never practiced. A quiet government position was offered him, but when he discovered that he must take a competitive examination, he worried himself into his first attack of insanity. Upon his release two years later, Cowper was taken in by the Unwins, a rural clergyman and wife. After her husband's death, Mrs. Unwin became Cowper's greatest friend, and encouraged him to write during his long years of seclusion in the country. At one time they considered marriage, but Cowper's illness recurred. Soon after her death in 1796
Cowper became permanently insane and died four years later.
Even though Cowper's insanity was aggravated by his horrifying conviction that he had somehow committed the unpardonable sin, his devout religious belief was the keystone of his life. Despair, or resentment, or a desire for pity, seem farthest from his heart; instead we find in Cowper a humane kindness, a gentle, constant gratitude for those who have brought him love and kindness, as well as a concern about all injustice and cruelty. His steadying sincerity is also apparent in his praise of the rural virtues, and in the healing influence he feels while
WILLIAM COWPER performing daily, simple tasks in the presence of nature. With an inner serenity that is pure in its innocence, and yet tinged by the tragedy of an unknown tomorrow, Cowper asked only that he might be able to relinquish the city's temptations of glitter and wealth to allow his worship of God to reign supreme:
The dearest idol I have known,
Whate'er that idol be,
Help me to tear it from Thy throne,
And worship only Thee.
So shall my walk be close with God,
Calm and serene my frame;
So purer light shall mark the road
. That leads me to the Lamb.
("Walking with God," page 75, verses 5 and 6)
Cowper is not one of our greatest writers, but in his poems we come to know a sweet spirit whom we can love, even as he loved others. His descriptions of nature ("The Task," pp. 76-77) are nostalgic, sincere, and

636
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER 1951 mellowed; his condemnation of London as a modern Babylon, his indignation at a world which practices slavery rather than brotherhood, accurately voice the growing romantic indignation at these evils, but the fire and scope of a great imaginative mind are not here. However, the final excerpt from 'The
Task," beginning
I was a stricken deer that left the herd
Long since; with many an arrow deep infixed
My panting side was charged, when I withdrew
To seek a tranquil death in distant shades. . . .
(text, from Book III, "The Garden," page 79) contains somewhat of the personal note which enriches the remaining selections in our text, particularly
"The Castaway" (page 82), which makes a genuinely powerful comparison between Cowper/s own uncontains somewhat of the personal selections in our text, particularly he knows he can never be rescued.
No voice divine the storm allayed,
No light propitious shone,
When, snatched from all effectual aid,
We perished, each alone:
But I beneath a rougher sea,
And whelmed in deeper gulfs than he.
(text, page 83, lines 61-65)
The tragedy and mystery of life are strong in Cowper; his own bewilderment at life's illogical offering, in turn, bewilders us. But even more we remember him for the more characteristic serenity he achieved amid the tranquil beauties of nature; his condemnation of the growing evils stemming from city and factory; and the all-encompassing love he felt for God and those near him during his troubled existence.
Note to Class Leaders
It is suggested that one or two hymns of Cowper's might be selected as songs for the meeting, such as "God Moves in a Mysterious Way."
Questions for Discussion
1. How is Gray's classical training revealed in his writings?
2. Discuss some of the romantic elements of his "Elegy." Why has it enjoyed so universal a popularity?
3. Why is Cowper considered a preromantic poet?
4. How do his writings reveal his awareness of his insanity? m. ustc — Fundamentals of Musicianship
Appreciation, Conducting, Singing, and Accompanying
Lessons for Union Meetings for 1951-52
Lesson 11— Increased Proficiency in Conducting and Hymn Singing
Florence Jepperson Madsen
Objective: To improve hymn singing through more effective conducting.
"The best days of the church have always been its singing days" (Cuyler).
The Four-four (4/4) Baton Pattern (b) There are two accents in this rhy-
(a) Learn and practice the 4/4 baton thm, beats one and three. Beat one is pattern in the textbook, page 11. strong and decisive; beat three is weak

LESSON DEPARTMENT
637 and about half as strong as beat one.
(c) All even rhythms in which the upper figure is 4 are conducted with the 4/4 baton pattern, such as: 4/1, 4/2,
4/4, 4/8, 4/16, or, when this rhythm is represented with a large letter C. If the C appears with a vertical line drawn through it, and there are four half notes in a measure, or their equivalent, it is called long Alle Breve rhythm and is conducted with the same 4/4 pattern.
(d) Practice this rhythm in large (maximum), medium (ordinary), and small
(minimum) patterns.
1. The baton pattern retains its original characteristic shape whether or not it is used in large, medium, or small size.
2. Use the large pattern when conducting a chorus or congregation of considerable size singing in full volume. Hymns like the following require this pattern:
"Onward Christian Soldiers," starts with beat one (down beat).
"The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," starts with beat four (up beat).
To make the large pattern use the arm fully.
3. Apply the medium pattern to songs that are to be sung in moderate volume, such as the following:
"There Is Beauty All Around," starts with beat one (down beat).
"Redeemer of Israel," starts with beat four (up beat).
For the medium pattern use the forearm.
4. Conduct with the small pattern songs, or parts of songs, that are to be sung with minimum volume. Examples:
"Hushed Was the Evening Hymn,"
(New) Hymns, starts with beat one
(down beat).
"We Ever Pray for Thee/' starts with beat one (down bea t). "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," starts with beat four (up beat). To make the large pattern use the arm fully. 3.
Apply the medium pattern to songs that are to be sung in moderate volume, such as the following: "There Is Beauty All Around," starts with beat one (down beat). "Redeemer of Israel," starts with beat four (up beat). | For the medium pattern use the forearm. 4.
Conduct with the small pattern songs, or parts of songs, that are to be sung with minimum volume. Examples: "Hushed Was the Evening Hymn," (New) Hymns, starts with beat one (down beat). "We Ever Pray for Thee,'' starts with beat one (down beat). For the small pattern use the forearm closer to the body with gentle motions of the baton, or, use the wrist with slight gestures. 5- The large, medium, and small patterns are frequently used interchangeably 637° in a composition according to the necessary graduation of volume, or in keeping with the character of the musical selection. Examples: "Glory to God in the Highest," (New) Hymns. "I Know That My Redeemer Lives." 6. In an art song, particularly, the conductor must constantly make changes in the volume to produce the desired effects in interpretation, Therefore, the three sizes of the pattern may be used alternately in one composition. (e) Practice the 4/4 baton pattern in hymns of your own choice, applying the large, medium, and small baton patterns. (1) Observe the natural accents of the thythm. (2) Conduct gracefully and with meaning. The point of the baton should lead in making all of the baton patterns. (f) The characteristic qualities of the 4/4 rhythm are: majestic, dynamic, motivating, devotional.
Examples are: "Arise, O Glorious Zion" "Oh Beautiful for Spacious Skies" "The Hallelujah Chorus" "Worthy Is the Lamb" (The last two numbers from the oratorio The Messiah, by Handel). The conductor should avoid pressing any part of the arm against the body when conducting.. The arm should be relaxed and pliable, and the elbows should not be extended upward or outward unnecessarily, Expression in Hymn Singing (a) It will be noted that the hymns regularly appear without expression marks. In most instances just the tempos are indicated.
While it is recognized that the hymn is to be sung as a free vocal expression of the congregation and that, pumarily, it is not to be considered as an art song; nevertheless, it is essential that the full intent of the word message shall be expressed.
This makes it necessary for the conductor to assume the responsibility of choosing and suggesting the needed expressions. However, cau- 638 tion should be exercised in the liberties Questions and Suggestions for Discussion thus taken. (b) The words of the text generally 1.
Describe the 4/4 baton pattern.
Suggest how they should be expressed. (c) Hymns in which it has traditional to make variations are: "America" (fourth stanza) "The Lord Is My Shepherd" "Come Unto Jesus" — RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 2.
Discuss the necessity of the three types. 3.
What are the characteristics of 4/4 thythm? 4. How may hymn singing be. Improved?
Become o=}P-o Ue Good eas: for Work Meeting Luncheons | 1 c.
Elbow macaroni 1 c. Cream 1 c.
Soft bread crumbs % oc. Butter 1 c. Grated American cheese 3 ©ggs Macaron! Loar Christine Eaton tbsp.
Chopped green pepper tbsp.
Chopped parsley tsp.
Onion juice tsp.
Salt tbsp.
Chopped pimiento a ee ee Cook macaroni in boiling salted water until tender, drain, and rinse in cold water.
Scald the cream and add bread crumbs, butter, seasoning, beaten eggs, and cheese.
Bake in moderate oven (325°) one half hour.
Serve with tomatoes or mushroom sauce.
Mushroom soup may be used for the sauce by thickening with a little butter, browned flour, and cream.
Serves about 8. 4 @ a q