[Vol21 | December 1934 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Our Project]

Our Project "BOOKS OF THE BIBLE" From Union Stake
Boy enters stage repeating—Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers— Oh Gosh—I don't see why the Relief Society Teachers got Mom started in on this. I've got to learn the books of the Old Testament— 39 of them! I don't see why 'cause there is nothing interesting in it. I tried to read it once and couldn't find a thing good in it. Oh hum! I'm sleepy. (Turns pages of Bible) Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus. (Yawns lays head on book.)
BIBLE: Son, I am the Bible and I have such interesting things to tell you and some wonderful people to introduce to you. Here are two I know you will like to meet. (Enter Adam and Eve, dressed in white with girdle of leaves.)
ADAM: I am Adam and this is Eve. My boy, know this, that instead of being wicked transgressors as this world would have you believe, we gave to you a great gift, that of mortal life. We have kept the commandments of the Lord, to subdue the earth and we have multiplied and replenished the world. You should rejoice that through our fall and the glorious atonement of Jesus Christ the way of Eternal Life has been opened unto you.
BIBLE: This is Exodus. In its pages is a story greater than any fairy story you ever read because it is true. A story of a wicked king who oppressed and killed the children of Israel until a great prince arose to lead them out of bondage. Did you ever hear of the waves of the ocean ceasing to roll and people crossing on dry land? (Enter Moses, Aaron and Miriam. They stand gazing with hands shading eyes as if watching the Egyptians. Moses standing with arm across Aaron's shoulder.)
Moses: Which is like unto the Lord oh my brother Aaron.
MIRIAM: Oh my brother, Moses, may I sing my song of joy? (Bending on knee before them.)
Moses: Sing thy song my sister. (Miriam chants Ex. 15:1-6.)
BIBLE: When Moses died a light went out greater than ever shone in Israel again. He was a prophet who communed with God himself. Could Israel find a leader great enough to lead this mighty nation? Yes. Here he is. (Enter Joshua.)
OUR PROJECT
JOSHUA: I am Joshua. I am not a prophet and can not commune with our Father as does Moses but I have been trained under the hand of that great leader and I was permitted to be with Moses on the Mount in the very presence of God. If you like a story of mystery and floods, storms, and spies, turn my pages. I will tell you how the walls of Jericho fell before us without one blow. How, you ask? Read and know the secret.
BIBLE: After all the war and bloodshed, horror and tumult of Joshua and Judges how delightful to turn the pages to a wonderful story of love and home life. Young and old find delight in this simple story of love and loyalty. No one can read these four short chapters without being the better for the reading. (Enter Ruth, Naomi, Orpha. As they reach the center of stage Orpha kisses Naomi and walks to left of stage weeping.)
Naomi: (Ruth 1:15) Behold thy sister-in-law is gone back unto her people and unto her gods, return thou after thy sister.
RUTH: (Ruth 1:16-17) Entreat me not to leave thee. (Soft music during this.)
BIBLE: Again I turn my pages and find you a story of patriotism, of a beautiful woman who risked her life to save her people.
ESTHER: I am Esther—when a great crisis arose in my life, I called for fasting and prayer, I needed these to make me strong enough to face my test. I faced my king, made my plea and because of faith and prayer I was granted the life of my countrymen.
BIBLE: Now I will bring you a man who is counted the wisest man ever known. After all these centuries his wisdom brings us joy. The Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, "Ask what I shall give thee" (Judges 3:5) and this man replied, "I am but a little child, I know not how to go out or come in. Give thy servant' an understanding heart to discern between good and bad. This is Solomon. (Solomon enters followed by soldier carrying baby—followed by weeping women.)
SOLOMON: (Kings 3:26) Divide the living child in two and give one-half to one and one-half to the other.
MOTHER: Oh my Lord give her the living child and in no wise slay it.
FALSE MOTHER: Let it be neither mine nor thine but divide it.
SOLOMON: Give her the child— she is the mother thereof.
BIBLE: My boy—men have ridiculed me, laughed at me, claimed to have proven me false, condemned me to oblivion and still I remain the greatest force for righteousness in the world.
Each character after having made his speech passes either to the right or left of stage forming a semicircle just within the shadow of the light. After Solomon had made his last speech the light was flashed on all of the characters, and by the strains of soft music each in the same order as they had entered the stage, returned again into the folds of the huge Bible from which they had come upon the stage.
Boy (awakening): My but that was a beautiful dream, those people were so interesting. I think I'll read the Bible and learn more about them.
Characters Adam and, Eve; Moses, Aaron, Miriam; Joshua; Ruth, Naomi, Orpha; Esther; Solomon, Soldiers, Baby; Two Women.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Back To The Scriptures"—Project November—Old Testament By Twin Falls Stake Relief Society
November is our Thanksgiving month. Let us study the Bible with this thought in view, that more than ever in our lives we will be deeply grateful and praise God from whom all blessings flow.
Quoting Professor Goodell—"The Bible is the master book of the ages. No one young or old can afford to be ignorant of this greatest Book of Books. Shakespeare, Ruskin, Webster, Gladstone, and scores of other Great men in political and literary life affirm that whatever is worthwhile and impressive in their style can be traced to their familiarity with the Bible. The Bible includes the most beautiful of Literature and some of the unquestioned masterpieces of writing. The greatest value of the Bible however is not to be in its philosophy or poetry, its history or biography, but rather in the fact that it influences our lives for good as no other book can do."
First week in November
See Relief Society Magazine, December, 1933 and January, 1934— Literary Department—for the story "How our Bible came to us." Turn to your Bible index and find number and names of books in Old Testament. Memorize if possible. Study from Relief Society magazine, August 1934, page 468, "Aid for Our Project."
Second week in November
Creation of God's earth in all its perfectness as a home for His children. Read Genesis Chapters 1 to 9.
Third week in November
Thanksgiving stories in Old Testament. A. Hannah's Thanksgiving — 1st Samuel. B. Rejoicing and gratitude of children of Israel after crossing the Red Sea. Exodus Chapters 14 and 15. C. Story of Deborah and her gratitude. Judges Chapter IV.
Fourth week in November
Old Testament Songs of Praise. Select the ones you like best. Psalms 145, 146, 103, 111, 36, 93, 138, 150, 107, 33.
"Back to the Bible" is meant for all the family. Mother, much of the success of this project depends upon you. You will be asked how many chapters you have read. Please make note of this. Put this outline where you can easily find it.
The Old Testament By St. George Stake Relief Society
IN accordance with the request of the General Board, we wish our members to carry on the project of reading the scriptures in their homes. The Old Testament contains so much in the way of history, so many fascinating stories, such stirring prophesies and such profound wisdom that it would repay years of study. In two months we can do no more than make a superficial survey, but we hope we can create in our children a reverence for this book which will bring them back to it again later.
We suggest that every mother read the material in the August Relief Society Magazine for general background, and we offer the following as an additional help.
First, there are many general facts that can be taught about the Old Testament. The number of books it contains can be remembered by thinking of the number of letters in the word Old (3) and in the word OUR PROJECT Testament (9) put together to make 39. The names can be memorized by singing them to a simple tune which will be taught in the wards. The first seventeen books constitute history, the next five are the poetical books and the last seventeen are the prophets.
At least one valuable evening can be spent in teaching the children how we got our Bible. What were books like before the days of printing? This will lead naturally to a description of the papyrus rolls and the old quill pens. The Old Testament grew for thousands of years, as each prophet wrote his message. They wrote in the Hebrew language and their books were re-copied by hand and kept in the churches. Two hundred and eighty years before Christ these Old Testament books were all collected and translated into Greek so that Jesus used them in much the same form that we have them now, only in a different language. He probably had the Hebrew version. Three hundred seventy-five years after Christ they were translated, from the Greek into Latin.
There are many, many interesting stories connected with the translating of this Latin version into English, any of which the family will enjoy. Older children might read them aloud to the group. One such story is about Caedmon. I quote from the account of Bede, the scholar, written twelve hundred years ago.
"This man had lived the life of a layman until he was somewhat advanced in years, and had never learned any songs. For this reason often at the banquets where for the sake of merriment it was ruled that they should all sing in turn at the harp, when he would see the harp approach him, he would arise from the company out of shame and go home to his house. On one occasion he had done this and had left the banquet hall and gone out to the stable to the cattle which it was his duty to guard that night. Then in due time he lay down and slept, and there stood before him in his dream a man who hailed him and greeted him and called him by name: 'Caedmon, sing me something.' Then he answered and said. 'I cannot sing anything; and for that reason I left the banquet and came here, since I could not sing.' Once more the man who was speaking with him said: 'No matter; you must sing for me.' Then he answered. 'What shall I sing?' Thereupon the stranger said: 'Sing to me of the beginning of things.' When he had received this answer he began forthwith to sing, in praise of God the Creator, verses and words that he had never heard."
From that time forth Caedmon had as a gift the power to change the Bible stories into poetry. In those early times the Bible was considered too sacred for any but priests to read and handle. When Tyndale declared that the common people should have it to use, he was forced to leave the country. Because he insisted on printing the Bible and selling it to everyone, he was finally strangled and burned. Later (1604) King James was converted to Tyndale's idea and selected a group of the best scholars in all England to perfect the translations for everyone. This is the version we now use, called the King James' Version.
II
For younger children we suggest the following stories as some we are sure all will enjoy: Genesis 6, 7, 8, The story of Noah. Genesis 22, Abraham offers up Isaac. Genesis 3, 7-45, The story of Joseph in Egypt.
Exodus 2, The story of Moses. I Samuel 6, David Chosen King. I Samuel 7, David kills Goliath. Daniel Chapter 1:8-21, Daniel keeps the Word of Wisdom. Daniel Chapter 2, Daniel Interprets the King's Dream. Daniel 3, Daniel's friends cast into the Furnace. Daniel 6, Daniel Cast into the Lion's Den. I King's 17, 18, Stories of Elijah. II Kings 2, 4, 5, 6, Stories of Elisha.
III
Another excellent way of teaching the Old Testament is to have children memorize choice selections. We suggest the following as only a few:
Psalm 19, The Heavens declare the glory of God, etc.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Psalm 23, The Lord is my shepherd, etc. Psalm 24, The earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof, etc. Psalm 51, Have mercy upon me, O Lord, etc. (This is David's prayer of repentance and is said to have been used by more penitent people than any other one.) Proverbs 3, Verses 13 to 20. A beautiful tribute to wisdom. Proverbs 10, Individual verses. (Every chapter in Proverbs is rich in quotable verses.) Ecclesiastes 11:9-11, Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth, etc. Ecclesiastes 12, Remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth, etc. Job 38:1-8, God speaks to Job out of the whirlwind.
Note:—St. George Stake prepared much more valuable material than we are able to print, but this will show what excellent work they are doing.
Project Pamphlets
OUR Magazine subscription has gone so much higher than we anticipated that we long ago exhausted the supply of August Magazines which contains Dr. Swenson's help on the Project. So many are eager to have this material that we have gotten out pamphlets containing the seven pages found in our August Magazine on the Project. These may be secured at 2c a copy postpaid. Send orders to Julia A. F. Lund, Room 28, Bishop's Bldg.