[Vol21 | December 1934 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: President Grants Kimball]
AFTER graduation Brother Clark was principal of the high school at Heber for one year, member of the faculty of the Salt Lake Business College for two years and served one year as principal of the southern branch of the State Normal School at Cedar City, then he again returned to the Salt Lake Business College. In 1903 he began work in the law school of Columbia University. Here his long training under Dr. Talmage made itself manifest in his accuracy and his great power of application. Dr. James Brown Scott, one of Columbia's professors, when preparing a case book of quasi contracts, employed Brother Clark to assist him. He graduated in 1906 and Elihu Root, Secretary of State, appointed him assistant solicitor. This position necessitated his studying international law. In the field of diplomacy he came in contact with America's leading statesmen. He went into many old cases and had them settled. In 1910
President Taft appointed him to serve under Secretary Knox as solicitor of the State Department. While in this position,he won the famous Alsop case against Chile. The case was arbitrated before the King of England and the United States Government was awarded $900,000.00. About this same time he prepared a memorandum on the right of the Government to protect its citizens in foreign countries by force of arms. This has become an authoritative statement in the State Department. In March 1903 he was appointed United States Consel before the British American Claims Commission. A memorandum on mutual trade which he prepared attracted the attention of Mr. Morrow and a lasting and delightful friendship was formed, which resulted in placing Mr. Clark in an important diplomatic position. "In 1917 he became a member of the Judge Advocate General ReRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE serve Corps at the request of General Enoch H. Crowder. Later he was assigned to duty under Attorney-General Thomas Watt Gregory. He remained at this post for a year and was assigned as adjutant to General Crowder, so that he held the rank of Major and was later awarded a distinguished service medal by Congress upon the recommendation of General Crowder. "He made a careful and exhaustive study of the Versailles Treaty which ended the World War. No other man in the United States had a clearer understanding of this historic document and no one was better able to interpret it in the light of international policies pursued by this government. "J. Reuben Clark supplied the well-known senator from Pennsylvania, Philander C. Knox, and those supporting Knox's views, with data when the great question of the League of Nations was debated in the Senate of the United States." AFTER the War he returned to Utah but in 1921 was called to Washington by Secretary of State, Charles Evans Hughes, to serve as a special counsel to the State Department in preparing the agenda for the Conference on the Limitation of Armaments. He served as technical advisor to Secretary Hughes, who later appointed Mr. Clark counsel for the British-American Claims Commission. In 1926 he was made a member of the United States-Mexico Claims Commission and soon became its general counsel. This familiarized him with the Mexican-American relations and because of this knowledge Mr. Dwight W. Morrow, Ambassador, took Mr. Clark to Mexico as legal advisor. He later served as under-Secretary of State. When Mr. Morrow was elected a United
PRESIDENT GRANT'S COUNSELORS
States Senator, President Hoover selected Mr.
Clark to be our Ambassador to Mexico. He held this position with distinguished honor until March 3, 1933, when he resigned. In acting upon the resignation, President Herbert Hoover sent the retiring Ambassador the following communication: "I must of course, accept your resignation as Ambassador to Mexico, to be effective at the close of business March 3rd. "T wish to take this occasion to express to you the appreciation I have for the service you have rendered our country as its Ambassador to Mexico.
Never have our relations been lifted to such a high point of confidence and cooperation, and there is no more important service in the whole of foreign relations of the United States than this. A large part of it is due to your efforts, and I realize that it has been done at a great sacrifice to yourself. The American people should be grateful to you for it."
Secretary of State, Henry L.
Stimson said, "Your distinguished service as American Ambassador to Mexico has reflected signal credit upon the Department of State." His contributions to the literature of the Department of State on international questions have been very important. He prepared one volume of 1,500 pages on "Emergency Legislation to December 1917."
This stands out as the only publication of its kind and shows President Clark's ability to do a prodigious amount of work in a short time. He defined and clarified the Monroe Doctrine. Mr.
