GRIEVANCES.

		WASHINGTON, April 8, 1886.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE EVENING STAR:
	In the Evening Star of April 7th I find,
under the heading "A Mormon Petition,"
some errors stated that I am prepared to cor-
rect, in reference to the memorial of the
women of Utah recently presented in
the Senate of the United States by
the Hon. Henry W. Blair. The mem-
orial was drafted by a committee of
"Mormon" women, whose signatures were at-
tached to each engrossed copy, this committee,
having been nominated at a mass meeting of
over two thousand women from all parts of
the territory, while assembled to protest against
the wrongs and grievances under which they
are suffering from the maladministration of the
Edmunds law of 1882; and also against the
disfranchisement of the women of Utah, who

[Column 2]
have voted for sixteen years, and who are
not even accused of violating any law, and
other measures included in the Edmunds bill,
which recently passed the Senate of the
United States.
	"Mormon" women have, surely, some rights
left that ought to be respected, and one of
these is the right to petition the President and
the Congress of the United states for redress,
and of presenting to them and to the people,
facts and incidents in relation to the existing
condition of affairs in the Territory where
they reside, which are of vital importance to
the welfare of the community, and specially
oppressive in application to those mosst deep-
ly interested.
	The Edmunds law of 1882 is sufficiently
rigid when enforced, to satisfy those who are
really anxious to abolish "polygamy," and to
adopt harsher measures and add severity and
cruelty to the administration is not only an in-
justice to those already suffering punishment
but amounts to positive persecution.
	Do the American people forget that these
women, against whom such a pressure of cir-
cumstances is brought to bear at the present
time, are their sisters in the one great family
of the Union; and that they have human
hearts and affections as tender and true as
their own? Do they realize that it is simply
because of their religious faith, and for a prin-
ciple of it, which they hold to be sacred and di-
vine, that they are suffering these hardships?
If they do, is it not in the interest of humanity
to see that no cruelty is inflicted upon these
women and children, but that the law be hu-
manely and wisely administered by men who
have common sympathy and true respect for
motherhood and the purity of little children?
	That "Mormon" women are harrassed and
annoyed and insulted unnecessarily by un-
principled men employed as deputy marshals
and spies, who have no genuine respect for
womanhood, and think any measure will be
justified in dealing with the wives and daugh-
ters of "Mormons," is very apparent, and cer-
tainly calls loudly and should not call in vain,
for an investigation in regard to these offenses,
and a radical change in dealing with such a
delicate matter as the severing of family ties
and the breaking up of homes that were so
dear to those who toiled together to establish
them, and whose hearts are entwined around
each other so closely that to separate them is
to inflict a wound that only divine love can
ever heal.
	The incidents cited in the memorial referred
to are only a few of the many cases in which
insults and outrages upon propriety and even
common decency have been committed by
men who usurp authority in out of the way
districts and places, intimidating with threats
and in various ways defenseless women and
children. When at home in Salt Lake City I
am almost daily in receipt of letters from
different parts of Utah, Arizona and Idaho
giving information in detail of facts pertain-
ing to arrests, serving of writs, warrants and
the misconduct of these deputies and spies.
Houses are broken into in the night time, the
sleeping apartments of women are causelessly[-]
invaded and the occupants insulted. Whole
families are arrested and dragged before grand
juries, and women and children are terrorized
and interrogated in an indecent manner by
hectoring district attorneys and their assistants
in office. Do you think such things reasonable
because the women are "Mormons?"
	In the interest of motherhood, of young
women and children of tender years, and in
the interest of universal humanity, I appeal to
the mothers of America, and entreat them to
consider the situation in Utah, brought feel-
ingly and forcibly to their notice in the me-
morial just presented to Congress, and would
ask them to investigate the subject without

[Column 3]
prejudice, before further cruelties and greater
hardships are imposed upon a people already
suffering persecution for conscience sake.
	As one of the delegates sent here to present
the memorial of the women of Utah to the
President and to the Congress of the United
States, I felt called upon to reply to the un-
favorable notice of it in your paper; and as I
have been delegated on other occasions to re-
present the "Mormon" women at the national
capital and elsewhere, and am the editor of
the "Mormon" woman's paper, I feel author-
ized to speak in their behalf, and to defend
their interests in whatever way possible, and
especially at this time, when the flood of pre-
judice and misrepresentation is brought to
bear against them so heavily; and as the friend
of all who love justice and desire to protect
human rights, I remain, very respectfully, &c.,
		EMMELINE B. WELLS.
Editor "Woman's Exponent,"
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
From the Evening Star, Washington, April 10.


