DAY DREAMS.

	'Twas springtime. The glorious sun was
rising over a woodland country in majestic
splendor, kissing away the dews and filling the
earth with gladness. The cheerful birds
caroled sweetly in the dense, widening forest,
 whose mingling, mossy boughs embraced the
golden sky. The sunny, clime-lisping wind
swept softly across the lea, spreading the per-
fume of choicest flowers like an unseen censor
swung by seraphim through peaceful, resting
vales. Rolling on forever, the babbling brook
murmured more musically the everlasting song
of nature's never tiring loveliness. Leaning
over the picket gate, basking in the sunlight
of hopeful youth, stood a beautiful, one with a
darling babe, who was as happy as the singing
birds that wrapped her soul and all surround-
ing things in ecstacy divine. As a passing
man planted a kiss upon the cherub's cheek
and silently vanished from sight, ten thousand
panoramic thoughts flashed through her
dreamy mind, and she saw her long looked for,
cherished one return in safety from a distant
clime to fill her heart with increased joy, and
her lonely home with bounteous thanksgiv-
ing.
	The passer by was a stranger in a strange
land, a wanderer among men, teaching the
truth and setting forth righteousness. As he
traveled along, his head slightly forward, he
dreamed of a vale in the midst of the moun-
tains	There was his welcome home, surround-
ed with craggy, snow-capped peaks that have
battled the storms of ages. The blooming
orchard was full of merry birds, which filled
the balmy air with varied harmony. Near his


feet the little streamlet sang the same old song
of unceasing happiness, as it rippled o'er the
rocks to join the river's course.  The gentle
zephyrs that passed silently by, wafted pleasant
odors from the oasis of the desert.  With her
white arms on his painted gate, he saw his
dearest treasure,with his angel babe in her em-
brace, eagerly watching for his joyous return.
His soul o'erflowing with rapture, he kissed
the dimpled face, and was going to continue
his greeting when awakened to the unwelcome
reality that he was in a place he had never
seen before.  With silent emotion he pursued
his onward course, and dreamed that another
had made the same mistake in the valleys of
the west.
	The stranger had kissed the child and was
lost to view before she hardly realized her true
position.  She thought her bosom friend had
really returned, but now the bitter tears of
disappointment rolled down the rosy cheeks;
she said to herself in smothered accents, "The
man must have done it in fond remembrance
of his tender own dwelling in some distant
land.  I wonder if mine has ever done the
same in the strange country where he now so-
journs?"
