PASSING THOUGHTS.

How broad and high and deep the mighty theme,
Where past and present and the future gleam
In one vast glorious, panoramic view,
Showing the artist's skill sublime and true.

Mine but the task to point to each grand scene,
Of what has been, is being, and will be, I ween,
Unless Jehovah's word is null and void,
And prophets, Saints and Christ in vain have died.

First on the view a new born world appears,
To take its place amid revolving spheres—
Result of council of the gods above,
A plan of wisdom, majesty and love.

The work completed, and a day of rest
Appointed—still unto man of all most blest;
When he will keep its holy laws complete,
He will have light to guide his wandering feet.

Now let us gaze upon that Eden fair,
That Eden pure with fruits most choice and rare,
Adam and Eve untouched with deadly sin,
Ere the vile tempter there had entered in.

Oh! what a picture for the weary now,
Who 'neath the tyrant's rod in anguish bow,
Whose longing eyes now look for peace in vain,
For one bright spot free from sin's darkening stain.

But lo, the picture changed, the serpent's trail
Has marred each lovely scene, and sorrow's wail
Comes close upon the broken law; sin enters in,
Aye, to remain, unless a greater win.

The years roll on; another scene behold,
Where man has widely wandered from the fold;
God has repented His creation now,
And breathed a just and an unchanging vow,

To sweep him from the earth, all save a few—
Noah and his, who still were pure and true.
In vain had Noah warned the dying world—
They heeded not 'til heaven's darts were hurled

In anger down, and floods rose high and wide,
The swelling rivers meeting ocean tide;
One funeral dirge the wild winds sadly played,
When the fleeting breath of a whole world was stayed.

While sadly rested on the silent wave
The ark of him who tried in vain to save;
And he in time goes forth to build again,
Dwellings for man upon the mount and plain.

Nations arise and fall at God's command—
Egypt has felt the power of His right hand.
Stretched forth to set His bleeding captives free,
And mourns great Pharaoh's hosts beneath the sea.

Time's onward course displays each changing scene,
And Bethlehem's Star lights all with its bright gleam;
The Babe whose birthplace was a manger low,
Yet Lord of lords and King of all below.

But yet ye slew Him and His prophets dear,
Ye hosts of Satan!  but the time is near
When He shall come again and set His captives free,
Then chains and dungeons shall your portion be.

List to the words of that deep "still small voice,"
That makes the devils tremble and the Saints rejoice;
Study the glorious plan; then, if ye dare,
Go on, He will His mighty arm make bare.

We trust the Shepherd's voice we know so well,
And scorn the offer Him again to sell;
Though life and liberty the tempter be,
We'll wear the chains until He set us free.

	HOPE.
Mesa City, March 28.


[Column 1]

