"MEMORIAL."

	Following are some extracts from a letter
written by Mrs. E. B. Wells, April 6, 1886, on
receiving the news of the birth of a grand-
daughter.  The entertaining description of the
places named will no doubt prove acceptable
to our readers:
	Allow me to offer my most sincere congratula-
tions upon this auspicious occasion—the birth
through the royal lineage of the new and ever-
lasting covenant of one of the daughters of
Eve, and let us hope that she has come like a
sweet flower of the spring to bring joy and
fragrance to the household.
	The news of her advent came to me in the
Rotunda of the Capitol, as I was on my way
to the Marble Room of the Senate. The mes-
sage conveying "the glad tidings of great joy"
was handed me by a member of Congress, the
Delegate from Utah, and must, of course,
have been an official announcement.  You
know what a magnificent place the Rotunda is,
and the news coming to the grandmother there
ought to augur good for the newly born daugh-
ter of the house.  To describe this grand place
would take too much time, but suffice it to say,
it is 180 feet high to the canopy, and 96 feet
in diameter.  The sides are divided into eight
panels, with massive Roman pilasters support-
ing an entablature ornamented with wreaths
of olive. The paintings on the walls are also
eight in number, all historical.  The first re-
presents the landing of Columbus, the second
the discovery of the Mississippi, the third the
Baptism of Pocahontas, the fourth the Em-
barkation of the Pilgrims, the fifth the Declara-
tion of Independence, the sixth the Surrender
of Burgoyne at Saratoga, the seventh the Sur-
render of Cornwallis at Yorktown, the eighth
General Washington at Annapolis.  The apex
of the canopy represents an apotheosis of
Washington with Freedom on his right hand
and Victory on his left.  Here also are thirteen
female figures, representing the original States
and their products, and supporting a scroll on
which is inscribed E Pluribus Unum.  On the
outer margin are six groups allegorical of the
Revolution, viz., The Fall of Tyranny, Agri-
culture, Mechanics, Commerce, Marine, Arts
and Sciences.
	The Fall of Tyranny is represented by an
Eagle battling with Tyranny and Priestcraft,
a mailed soldier vainly struggling to uphold
the ermined robe of royalty.  Discord stands
by, also Anger and Revenge, with incendiary
torch.
	Agriculture is represented by Ceres with
cornucopia.  America wearing a red cap of
Liberty is turning over to Ceres the mastery of
a pair of horses attached to a reaper.  Flora is
gathering flowers and Pomona bears a basket
of fruit.
	Mechanics represents Vulcan resting his
right foot upon a CANNON, and the various in-
struments of his art are around him.
	Commerce is represented by Mercury hold-
ing a bag of gold and directing attention to it.
The figure thus called is Robert Morris, the
financier of the Revolution; there is Merchan-
dise with men at work, and two sailors point-
ing to a gunboat.
	Marine is portrayed by Neptune in his car
bearing his trident, accompanied by his attend-
ants, emerging from the deep, Amphrodite,

[Column 2]

Venus, is about dropping into the foaming
waters an electric cable, which has been hand-
ed her by a cherub.
	Arts and Sciences, the sixth and last, is re-
presented by Minerva, the Goddess of Wisdom,
surrounded by figures.  Franklin, the philoso-
pher, Fulton, the inventor of the steamboat,
Morse, of the magnetic telegraph, and the
figures of children, indicating teaching.—Now
tell me, is not this a propitious place in which
to receive the message of a new birth!
	Besides, on the very day that she was born
at nine o'clock in the morning, I walked into
the White House, or more properly called the
Executive Mansion, and at eleven succeeded
in obtaining entrance into the library, where
we sat about an hour and a quarter waiting
our turn to speak to the President of the
United States.  Shortly after twelve o'clock
we presented to him our credentials and the
Memorial of the women of Utah Territory,
and had an opportunity of stating to him some
facts and incidents relating to the abuses and
outrages perpetrated in the name of law.
	Now, if all these incidents combined are not
ominous of some special goodness or great-
ness in the mission on earth of the little
woman just ushered into life and being, I shall
give up prognosticating and speculating upon
such matters.	*	*	*	*
	March first was the anniversary of my bap-
tism, forty-four years  before, and I went to
Kirtland and walked over the historical
ground and through the Kirtland Temple,
which, though desecrated now by the teaching
and preaching of false doctrines, is still dear
to the Latter-day Saints on account of what
has transpired within those sacred walls, dedi-
cated as they were to the Most High God.
All those places where the Saints have lived
and worshiped, and toiled and suffered, are
dear to those who have shared or are sharing
similar trials and difficulties.  There is, of
course, this difference to me about Kirtland
and Nauvoo, though both are interesting and
both historical, that Nauvoo, with its scenes of
sufferings, trials and sorrows is engraven into
my very life, while Kirtland cannot become so
much a part of my very existence. I drank
in as much as possible the peculiar situation of
Joseph in the Whitney house in Kirtland,
where he received so many testimonies direct
from a divine source, and where he was almost
daily in communication with the Lord.  In-
deed, I have often heard Bishop Whitney say
that when he would ask the Prophet questions
he did not feel competent to answer, he would
often reply, "Bro. Whitney, I will go and ask
the Lord," and soon after, in a day or two, or
sometimes the same day, he would say, "I have
inquired of the Lord concerning that matter,
and have received the answer."  As you are
well aware, I am much attached to places, and
certainly a house where a prophet of God had
lived and received communications from on
high, possesses an interest to an ardent believer,
far above the palaces which have only archi-
tecture and adornments to recommend them.
So that the little chamber in Kirtland, deserted
and neglected, had a charm for me that con-
verted it, for the time being, into a fit place
for "the wise men of the west," who sat there
in council and who knelt there in prayer.  O
indeed, "it was good to be there," knowing
what I knew of what had formerly transpired
within those walls.
	I saw not that which was, but the vision of


the past.  Joseph the Seer with the Urim and 
Thummim, and around him were his few
staunch followers.  Mother Whitney has told
me of his struggles with himself and his
brethren in that room, when he would pace
the floor backwards and forwards, and in her
room just underneath she could hear him, and
O so many precious things she has told me of 
those wonderful days that are known to none
living now as she knew them.  How I wish
every day that she could have written some of
the beautiful things as she could describe them
episodes in history that ought to have been
left on record.  But she has gone, Sister
Woodruff has gone, and Sister Marinda Hyde
has gone now, and soon there will not be one
of those who first received endowments in the
old brick store in Nauvoo.  There were only
a few at the time, and so many of them are
dead, especially the women.  Bathsheba Smith
is the only one I can recall at the present
time, unless it is Augusta Winters' grand-
mother, and I am not sure about her.  One
thing I do think ought to have been officially
stated by Mother Whitney in her own hand-
writing, and that is, her knowledge of Emma
Smith's giving Joseph wives.  To be sure there
is testimony from the wives, but coming from
one outside the family, and a first wife and in-
timate friend would be very much stronger
with those not convinced.  Still, I suppose it
would be like those of old, who the Savior
said would not believe though one rose from
the dead.	*	*	*	*
	Yesterday the Memorial of the Women of
Utah was presented in the Senate and pub-
lished in full in the Record, and now only the
House remains to be heard from.  We intend
to get it referred to a committee there, and
then see what can be done with the committee.


