NAUVOO AS IT IS TO-DAY.

	Leaving Chicago Monday evening we reached
Montrose, Iowa, about nine o'clock next morn-
ing, March 9th, and found to our surprise that
there was but one way to cross the Mississippi
River at that point, and that was in a skiff.  The
ice was floating about considerably, and it looked
a little venturesome, but, having resolved to see
Nauvoo after forty years, having left it in Febru-
ary, 1846, we felt determined to make the effort.
There was no difficulty whatever in going over
except every now and then to steer clear of float-
ing ice, and the opposite bank was quickly
reached.  Nauvoo is still beautiful, or at any rate
picturesque in its situation. It looks very pretty,
and indeed presents rather a striking appearance
from the other side of the river, sufficient to at-
tract the attention of strangers, and when the
trees and vines, with which it abounds, are in leaf
it must look very handsome, coming towards it
from either direction. The people who live there
take considerable pride in its history, and tell
many remarkable stories, some of them much
more strange than true, of what transpired when
the Mormons were in possession.
	Nauvoo, like Kirtland, still bears some traces of
its former greatness, and one cannot help feeling
solemn in going over these historic places and re-
membering the familiar associations and recalling
the sad events that transpired in connection with
the persecutions and the exodus.
	The thoughts that rush to the mind, the recol-
lections of the past that sweep like a torrent over
the soul, bringing back vividly the remembrance
of that which once was, but is now no more, came
like magic when treading the well-remembered
streets and places to memory dear. What visions
unfolded themselves again to view. The dead
came back momentarily and stood all about us,
and the shrill wind seemed to echo their voices
and repeat the story of their wrongs. It does not 
require any very great stretch of the imagina-
tion to call up fantasies in a place so hallowed by
remembrances of loved ones gone before, as is
that consecrated ground. Some of the people be-
lieve it is cursed because of the drivings of the
Saints. We were told that many had moved away
on that account, they felt so confident that such
was the case. A short of spell does seem to rest
upon it, and it has the marked appearance of deso-
lation and ruin.  Many of the houses and old
landmarks are gone, and it is not so easy to find
places once well known, as might be supposed.
	Some houses have been pretty well kept up,
among the number are the residences of Brigham 
Young, Heber C. Kimball, Bishop Whitney,
Parley P. Pratt, John Taylor, Joseph Young,
Bishop Hunter, Bishop Woolley and Esquire
Johnson.  The people who own the residence of
Heber C. Kimball seem quite proud of the name
of its former owner, and refer to him with respect,
if not reverence. This house we went through,
even to the observatory on the roof, for there were

[Column 2]

associations connected with it that we loved to re-
call.  We also visited the Brigham Young house,
and several others which "fond recollection pre-
sented to view," and some of them brought
floods of tears that almost blinded us, as we
passed from room to room, recalling the incidents
that had transpired there and associated the
places in our mind; but tongue can never tell it
all, and the poet's cry came to us as we lingered
near the shrines so deeply engraven upon mem-
ory's tablets.

	"But ah! the tears that are not wept,
		The tears that never outward fall;
The tears that grief for years has kept
	Within us—they are best of all:
		The tears our eyes shall never know,
		Are dearer than the tears that flow."

	The great regret of all in mentioning Nauvoo is
that the Temple has been destroyed.  The people
who live in Nauvoo at the present time realize
what financial value the Temple or even its ruins
would be to that city to-day. Every year the
number of travelers and tourists increases, and
inquiries are made concerning people, places and
events, and there is very little reliable information
to be obtained. Mormonism has made such a
stir in the world since then, and people are just
beginning to see that there must have been causes
and conditions to influence its growth, and to
wonder what they were, and find an interest in
going back to the beginning and following it
through its several stages of progress and develop-
ment, even though men designate it the "hydra
headed monster." Those who lived in Nauvoo at
the time of the trouble all agree that it was a cruel
and bitter warfare that was waged against the in-
nocent and unwary, and many incidents of harsh-
ness and severity were related for our especial
benefit. Oaths and imprecations and blasphemy
were hurled at defenseless women and their little
children.  It is not forgotten, and it never can be
by any of those who participated in the struggle
against mob violence and ruffianism. There are
those living to-day—Gentiles—who were cognizant
of the facts at the time, who maintain that the
driving of the Mormons from their Temple and
their homes was something that American people
must ever look back upon with regret.  It could
only have arisen, they say, in a locality so new
that it might be considered border land; where
law and order could not be enforced, because of
the rough and unsettled condition of an unde-
veloped country.  This is the way in which men
pacify their consciences, or stifle them, and fancy,
perchance, that such lawlessness will never be
punished nor those terrible wrongs against the
innocent be redressed, but those who hold such
specious views will assuredly be mistaken, for
there is One who knows all, and will, in His own
due time,  mete out even-handed justice to all
mankind, and at that tribunal, if no other, Mor-
mons will stand upon their merits, and prejudice
will not control the decisions of those higher
courts.  Inquiring for people familiar with the
building up of the city, we were directed here and
there, out of town and in, and met quite a number,
none, however, that we had known personally
during the time we had lived there.  We saw Dr.
Weld, who, as we remembered him, had been a
dashing young man, and rather fine looking, but
now weak and feeble.  He had lived there through
the Mormon period, had known Joseph Smith,
Hyrum Smith,Esquire Wells, Foster, Bennet and
the Laws; was familiar with the record of the
people, and is disposed to vindicate their cause
and defend their attitude in the attempt made to
defend their wives, their homes, and their sacred
trusts.  Such men are called in common parlance
"Jack Mormons," and were they living now in
the vicinity of Salt Lake would be considered
worthy of disfranchisement for sympathy with
"such notorious offeners."
	One cannot recognize much of a sameness to

[Column 3]

the Temple grounds of former days. The
Catholics have a church just north of where the
Temple once stood, and a small store stands on a
part of the Temple site, and a dwelling house al-
most adjoining. The well in the yard that was 
under the Temple at the east end is in use, and
the water is excellent. Visitors to Nauvoo are
very much in the habit of carrying away a bottle
of the water as a sort of memento of their visit,
now that the rock is just about disposed of, and
cannot be broken up to serve the purpose of relics.
There is a house on the south west corner of the
Temple block, that was built by the Icarians, from
the elegant polished stone from that edifice.
That building shows more of the rock than can
be seen anywhere else, though many people have
carriage steps and front door steps made of the
beautiful white polished granite, cut and prepared
by the Latter-day Saints in the days of their
poverty, to build a house unto the Lord. It seems
to us a perfect sacrilege to so deface, destroy and
convert to such base uses material consecrated by
the prayers and labors of the Saints. Across the
street west of the Temple block stands the old
Armory,now remodeled and converted into a Con-
vent for the education of young girls.  We visited
the Riverside Mansion, as it is called now,
but what was originally designated the Nau-
voo House. Major Bideman and his pleas-
ant wife occupy the premises. A great part
of the foundation has been torn away and there
still remains a large part of it standing not built
upon, on the north side. Here Emma Smith
once "the Elect Lady" spent the latter part of her
life in comparative quiet—once the honored wife
of the great leader of this dispensation, mistress
of the Nauvoo Mansion where the Saints congre-
gated around Joseph, the Prophet,sharing the love,
affection and confidence not only of her beloved
husband, but of the whole body of the people.
Sad indeed was her fate,separated from those
who were her best and truest friends, without the
strong arm of him she had been wont to regard
with love and reverence, she was indeed left deso-
late.  Her grave is near by, but unmarked, and
the stranger is not privileged to read upon her
tomb the story of her eventful life; no, nor even
her name.	
	One of the most interesting, and one of the
saddest visits we made was to the old graveyard
east of the city. There, as elsewhere, were the
traces of neglect and ruin. The trees had grown
up, and the falling leaves and undergrowth had
scarce left a token of the graves hidden in grassy
beds and mossy hillocks beneath. Occasionally
a headstone might be observed, but even of the
few that were scattered here and there, nearly all
of them were broken or defaced. The place was
more like a wooded pasture than a depository for
the sacred dead. There is not, perhaps, a spot
in the world where one has more tender and pa-
thetic feelings than among the tombstones that
mark the graves and hallowed dust of the depart-
ed, even though unknown to those who linger near
to meditate upon the common fate that awaits,
sooner or later, all mankind. Trees are the best
companions in such a lonely place, for they an-
swer the weird imaginings of the soul in sighs,
and moans, and whisperings, that breathe a sort
of sympathy in harmony with those whose hearts
are mellowed by the touch of sorrow, and the
pensive thoughts that rise spontaneously when-
ever one "muses on death's long dreamless
sleep."
	While sadly contemplating the situation of this
last resting place of many hundreds of the faith-
ful, we could not help thinking how graciously
nature had provided for these unmarked graves in
the luxuriant foliage of the majestic trees, that
must beautifully adorn the cemetery in the sea-
son thereof.  And the birds make their nests
in the branches, and usher in the early dawn with
their matin songs, and at evening twilight warble
softly, making melodious music in this solitary


wayside God's acre. Alone here, I offered a
silent tribute of gratitude to One above, that our
loved ones had been left undisturbed; and as I
went from one to another of the little graves, I
wept for the many mothers who, perhaps, like me,
had laid away their first born there, and not been
permitted to visit the sod and consecrate them-
selves anew to the work of God. Words cannot
tell the anguish of the young mother when she
consigns to the silent tomb the idol of her earthly
affections, and when she leaves behind the conse-
crated ground forever.
	After wandering up and down and listening to
the cold March winds, whistling among the dry
branches of the trees, we wended our way on
foot, for not even a carriage can pass through the
winding pathway, repeating from Tennyson's "In
Memoriam,"

	 In words like needs I’ll wrap me o’er,
		Like coarsest clothes against the cold;
		But that large grief which these enfold 
	 Is given in outline and no more.”

	Phinehas Kimball, Esquire, lives on the place
once quite famous for its beautiful grounds, near
the Nauvoo landing, formerly owned by Hiram
Kimball, his brother, whose widow and sons are
well known in Utah. The house has been greatly
enlarged, though the old part, as it is called, is
still standing and in good condition. Mr. Kimball
seems to be about the ablest, and we were told,
also, the wealthiest man in Nauvoo. He made
many inquiries about his old friends and acquaint-
ances, and spoke with particular affection of
Brigham Young. We were pleasantly entertained
at his house a part of the time, and both himself
and daughter drove with us at different times about
the city. There is a newspaper published weekly
called The Nauvoo Independent, but the outside
pages are not printed there; think of one weekly
paper and half of it not local print. In summing
up the sketch of Nauvoo, we must mention the
drawings in crayon we saw of the Temple after it
had been burnt, as it stood then in ruins, and of
the column or corner that stood alone to mark the
magnificent edifice after the wind had blown down
the main part left from the fire. They were per-
fect gems—taken on the spot by a German artist.
He would not part with them, and we entreated
him to have the drawings photographed, which
he promised to do.
	There is much more to tell, but the article is
already too lengthy, and we will take up the sub-
ject at another time.


