THE FEMALE VOTE.

	It is often said if women vote, they will
have to be candidates for office, (though no
man has to be a candidate for office unless he
chooses) and that they will then be abused in
the newspapers—actually, in the newspapers!
There is always in these arguments a tacit as-
sumption that as long as women cannot vote,
they will be secure from abuse in the news-
papers.  But the papers that are opposed to
woman suffrage are ready to assail a woman
just as roughly as if she were a man,—general-
ly, indeed, with an added fling on the score of
her sex.  Witness the Boston  Herald, which
says in a conspicuous editorial:
	"In a shrieky letter to Senator Edmunds,
Mrs. De Lozier, of New York, protests with a 
blindness to facts characteristic of some mem-
bers of her sex, against depriving the Mormon
leaders in Utah of that bulwark of polygamy,
woman suffrage. 'The right of suffrage be-
longs to those women as a God-given right of
their nature,' says the writer.  On the con-
trary, the right was given them by an act of
Congress, and, having operated to strengthen


the Mormon power, it is about to be revoked."
	Blindness to facts seems not to be a purely
feminine characteristic; for the foregoing para-
graph contains almost as many errors as it
does assertions.  In the first place, the lady's
name is Mrs. Dr. Lozier, not Mrs. De Lozier.
In the second place, the Utah women were not
enfranchised by "an act of Congress," but by
an act of the Utah Legislature.  In the third
place, woman suffrage has in no preceptible
way strengthened the Mormon power; four-
fifths of the non-polygamous men of the Terri-
tory being Mormons, it makes not the slightest
practical difference to the Mormon power
whether the women vote or not. But in view
of the language habitually used by a certain
class of newspaper writers towards women
with whom they do not agree, is it not time to
drop the argument that women are treated
with respect, not because of their sex, or their
goodness, or their wisdom, but because of their
inability to vote?—Woman's Journal.


