RETROSPECTIVE.

	History is being made very rapidly nowadays in
Utah.  In after years it will almost seem incred-
ible that so many events of interest connected
with the Church could have transpired in so short 
a time. The Saints are having daily manifesta-
tions to convince them that the Lord meant what
He said when He declared that He would have a
tried people.
	During the last eighteen months great changes
have taken place, and the end is not yet. As if it
were not sufficient that ruffianly deputy marshals
were allowed to come and go and carry out the
mandates of the court in their own brutal and un-
seemly manner, influence was brought to bear to
secure the presence of a larger body of military in
our midst, and a portion of these were used to
bring to this city a captured and wounded prisoner.
The arrest and punishment of a man to the full
penalty of the law,for living with and acknowledg-
ing his wives, is not now considered sufficient, and
the "segregating" process is resorted to, accord-
ing to which any man who is considered guilty
once may be indicted a dozen times or more for
the same offense. The first wife, she who is con-
sidered by the world the legal one, is now com-
pelled, contrary to all principles of law, to testify
against her husband as to his family relations
"Raids" continue without any cessation, and it
would seem that no "Mormon" domicile is safe
from the intrusion of the minions of the court.
The people are indeed becoming a tried people,
and they are being compelled to learn the lessons
of patience and forbearance.
	On the other hand, God has been good to His
people.  He has brought them to this land of
plenty,and made their feet fast in the valleys of the
mountains.  The fruitful soil and streams of liv-
ing water have not been denied them, and in all


their outgoings and incomings, their existence in
these mountains has proved that the blessings of
the heavens and the earth have not been withheld.
They have abundant cause to be thankful, and we
believe they are.


