CRITICS AND CRITICISM.

	There are wise and unwise critics. And, ac-
cording to their natures, their criticisms are
wise or foolish, kind or unkind, true or false.
	Wise criticism is likely to be beneficial to
both critic and criticised; while unwise criti-
cism is detrimental to both, often more so to
the critic than the criticised.
	The true critic discovers many items to ad-
mire and profit by in matters which contain
only flaws to call forth ridicule or reproof
from the false or unwise critic.
	An instance illustrative of the above fact
recurs to my mind. Some years ago, in a
company of young ladies, a very humble and
unassuming girl remarked that she had but
little to say in company, because she felt the
want of an "edication." Another young
lady, who considered herself smart and also
well educated, proved to be too shallow-minded
or too thoughtless and unobserving to discover
the true merits, the modest beauty and purity


of sentiment contained in that little speech.
All she weighed or measured it by was the
mispronounced word, "edication," which she
sneeringly repeated to one sitting by her, in a
tone loud enough to be heard, I presume, by
every one present	In the eyes of at least the
majority of that company, the smart girl ap-
peared of far less value, and even good sense,
than the one who had so meekly confessed her
inability to make herself interesting to her
friends.
	Another good point may be made just here,
by the recital of something else which took
place the same afternoon, if I remember right-
ly, in the same company of girls.  A gentle-
man sent in a request for a favor to be done by
some of the young ladies.  As is ever the 
case with self-confident people, the smart girl
was quick to reply.  When the request had been
announced, "Let him do it hisself" she re-
sponded abruptly.
	Anyone the least acquainted with grammati-
cal accuracy would notice at once that the "well
educated" young lady had made a mistake in
speaking, quite as glaring as the one she was 
so ready to pick up and make much of but a 
short time before.
	What I would call attention to in this case
is the fact that all are so liable to make mis-
takes it is never safe or wise to offer uncalled
for or useless criticisms upon the language or
actions of others.  Had it not been for the un-
kindly manner in which the first mistake al-
luded to was repeated by the smart young lady,
her own blunder in saying hisself, instead of
himself, if noticed at all, would never have
been remembered.
	The wise and true critic searches for the
good and noble traits to be found in almost
every character not utterly depraved, and at-
tributes to every action the best and worthiest
motives.  Thus, something worth treasuring is
often found where the unthinking see only
cause for contempt or censure.

	Errors, like straws, upon the surface flow,
		Who s[---] for pearls must dive below."

			L .G. R.


