EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We, the women of Mancos Ward Relief So-
ciety, wish to express, through the columns of
your paper, our heartfelt sympathy for our
brethren and sisters who are undergoing such
bitter persecutions for the love of our holy re-
ligion.
     Although somewhat removed from the im-
mediate scene of affliction, we are none the
less interested in our dear brethren and sisters
that are enduring these trials.   We fully
realize that it is only a matter of time, when
we, too, will have to give as strong a proof of
our faith in the work of God established in
these last days for the exaltation of  man-
kind.
     We read with  a feeling of horror and
chagrin of our sisters being dragged before
courts and compelled to answer questions that
no man with one spark of manhood could be
induced to ask—of the privacy of their bed-
rooms being invaded, without even allowing
them time to dress, of their being thrust into
prison in a condition that has demanded the
respect of men worthy the name in all ages.
We read of these things, and many more of
like character, with feelings of deepest sym-
pathy for our brethren and sisters. We know
that they are brave and noble enough to 
avenge these wrongs, did they not know that
rashness on their part would only add to the 
persecutions of the people.  We read also with
pain and sorrow of our beloved leaders being 
deprived of their liberty and the kindly asso-
ciation of family and friends, at an advanced
period of life, after traveling thousands of
miles to carry the words of life and salvation
to their fellow men, but we have great conso-
lation in the knowledge that God is at the 
helm and will avenge our wrongs.
     When these wrongs can be inflicted by such
questionable characters as the present court
minions, with not only the sanction of the


courts, but the government, surely justice has
fled and honor departed from the nation.  It
seems that the end is not yet,from the bills now
pending.
     We join with every true Latter-day Saint in
thanking God for the  presence in Congress of
those few noblemen that dare face the flood of
bitterness and hate, that is almost everywhere
made manifest against us, and boldly contest
for our constitutional rights.  We fear there
are not many such—not enough to save the
nation, and like Sodom, it will go down.  We
are earnestly watching the progress that both
powers are making, with perfect confidence as
to the result, and praying for strength to stand
for the cause of God when our time of trial
comes.
     We humbly pray that God will comfort and
support the prisoner, the fugitive and the be-
reaved for His cause.
