OUR CHILDREN.

	One of the most forcible remarks, at the late
General Conference, was made by Apostle John
Henry Smith, which was, in substance, that the
Latter-day Saints were probably under greater
condemnation for neglecting to teach their child-
ren the things of God and lead them in His ways,
than for any other thing.
	How this sentiment should strike home to the
heart of every father and mother in this Church,
as a reproof to some, a warning to others and a
new impetus to all.  Is there any other gift or
blessing which the Lord bestows upon us in this
life so precious as our children?  Emphatically
no!  And shall we, dare we, neglect this greater
gift, while we pet and foster lesssr ones?  Had
such neglect never been known among the peo-
ple of God in this dispensation, should we find
infidelity among the young in Zion?  I cannot
hink we would.
	And what must we teach our little ones, as a
afeguard against the insidious wiles of the de-
stroyer of souls?  Teach them this one principle
—pure, true, heavenly love.  Is love all, then,
that our children need to be taught? "Perfect
love casteth out all fear." Where no fear is
found, perfect confidence must be established.
What more remains to be done, that salvation
may be secured, where perfect love of God and
perfect confidence in Him exist?  Jesus said, "If
ye love me, ye will keep my commandments."
This comprehends the whole matter.
	If we so live that our children may love us as
they should, will they not follow our admonitions?
In almost every instance they will, and if our ex-
amples before them are blameless, though some
of them should go astray, we can feel that we are
free from censure.  We are not capable of teach-
ing our children the pure principle of love, if we
fail to make it the ruling attribute of our own
lives.
   Can a husband and wife who are in the habit
of disagreeing expect to see real harmony among
their children?  Love and harmony are not to be
enforced, they must live in hearts, or they cannot
sparkle from eyes or sp[-]ak from lips.  There are
some things that children may be compelled to do,
but there is only one way of educating them to
love one another and delight in doing each other
good.  This comes of constant training; and the
one best method in teaching it is by parental ex-
ample.	
   There is not a commandment which has been
given us of God, but is replete with love in all its
bearings.  And all our instruction to our children
should be given in the same spirit.  Parents
should never be afraid of letting their children
know how dearly they are beloved; this cannot in
any wise diminish the respect a child should feel
for a parent.  Yet some fathers and mothers seem
fearful of allowing the least familiarity with their
children, lest by so doing they may lose some
power of control.  I cannot think it possible that
such could be the result of loving thoughts, how-


ever freely they might be expressed. I believe
with Fanny Fern: 
	"Too much indulgence has spoiled many a
child; too much love not one."
		LULA.


