BOX ELDER STAKE. 
	The thirtieth quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Box Elder Stake was held
in the Tabernacle in Brigham City, March 
9th, 1886, Sister Harriet Snow presiding. Af-
ter the usual opening exercises, the minutes of
the previous conference were read and accept-
ed, and twenty-one written reports were read
by the Secretary.
	Sister Perry, Prest. of the Society at Three
Mile Creek, had not attended the two previous
conferences, but considered it a great privilege
to enjoy these meetings. Spoke of two good
faithful sisters who had lately died in her
ward. We ought to understand the principles
of our religion, that mothers may be able to
teach their little children to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in all things. Let us not
deceive ourselves in thinking we are something
that we are not. Exhorted the mothers to
guard their children well, remarking that we
took great pains in dressing the body, but
should take more pains to clothe the spirit and
lay up treasures in heaven. Miss Fannie
Graehl, Treasurer, read her financial report,
and made some interesting remarks.
	Sister Albertsen, President of the Bear
River City Society, said the good sisters in her
ward felt united and well-toward each other,
and hoped all would prove faithful. She was
followed by Sister Dewey, Prest. at Deweyville,
who bore a strong testimony. 
	Sister Harper, Prest. at Calls Fort, said
when we are persecuted, we draw nearer to-
gether. If at present we are not so united as
we ought to be, let us strive to do better, and
learn to guard each other's interest.
	Sister Watkins, President of the 4th Ward,
thought this a time that we should strive to
live faithful and be wide awake teaching our
children to pray and being prayerful ourselves.
	Sister Andersen, President of the 3rd Ward,
who had been sick several months, remarked:
It is said, those who leave father and mother
for Jesus' name sake, shall receive a hundred
fold again. This she had seen manifested, for
the brethren and sisters could not have been
more kind if they had been her own relations.
	After some concluding remarks from Prest.
Harriet Snow, conference adjourned until 2
o'clock.
	Afternoon session: Sister Susannah P. Booth,
President of the 1st Ward, was the first speaker:
"I think it is high time we have something to
draw us nearer together as a band of sisters.
In our meetings we are blest with the Spirit
of the Lord; our mission, as a Relief Society,
is to assist those who are bowed down with
sickness and sorrow, or in destitute circum-
stances."


Emilia D. Madsen thought some might be
tempted to say concerning our case, "If this is
the true kingdom of God, why does not the
Lord take care of His own?" But we should
remember Jesus Christ, "in whom the Father
was well pleased," who, when crucified between
two thieves, was tantalized by them with the
remark, "If Thou art the Son of God, save
thyself." It was for Him to submit to all
things, and it is for us to acknowledge His
hand in every trial.
	Mary E. Snow, President of the 2nd Ward,
spoke of the love and good feeling we beget by
working together for each other's interest.
	Bro. E. A. Box said, "The Lord has brought
pressure upon us to purify us, and if we do all
in our power to purify ourselves perhaps the
Lord will shorten the time. We out here in
the mountains are very apt to suppose the
world very learned, very wise, and ourselves
ignorant, but the world of mankind is not
learned; some few are, but the great masses are
not educated. One might study and attain
great wisdom, and still know nothing of God.
The wise men of the earth take all the honor
to themselves, but we give all the honor to 
God. We have lived here in peace for many
years, and it has been stated that hereafter,
when we associate with those who have suffered
persecution, even laid down their lives, we
would feel injustice was done to us, in that we
were overpaid."
	Coun. Olivia Widerborg said, "If we have
the Spirit of the Lord in our hearts, we must
feel that every word is true we have heard
here." She felt that the sisters of Brigham
City, as a whole, were trying to live their re-
ligion. In reporting the Scandinavian sisters'
association, she bore a strong testimony to the
work of the Lord.
	Prest. Harriet Snow made a few concluding
remarks after which the conference adjourned
for three months.
