Seek After Shese Things 7 Ruth M. McKay Melbourne Branch, Australian Mission A few weeks ago one of our women investigators questioned me regarding women's activities in the Church. I would like to answer that question. Life, you know, is like climbing a mountain. You know full well that on reaching the Hope there will be unfolded to you, vistas that you never even dreamed of. But as you struggle upwards, pebbles get into your shoes and hurt your feet, briars tear and scratch you, and suddenly you trip and fall, having been unaware of a hidden rock in the ground. These can be likened to difficulties we meet with in everyday life. The pebble which hurts our feet can be likened to the unkind word, the briar which scratches and tears, the unkind act; and the hidden rock, the covert criticism of leaders. But the stout of heart, obeying the Lord's commandments, and despite their many hurts, follow the path with increased endurance. Aware of the beauty of life, they look for that beauty in everything they see, even in the things which have been misused against them, the symmetry of the pebble, the form of the briar bush, the color of the rock. So those who are pure in heart toss the pebble from the shoe, bind the bleeding scratches, and lift themselves from the fall upon the hidden rock, and go on their way with peace in their hearts, leaving far behind those who use against them the unkind word, the unkind act, or the covert criticism; for the time they spent in searching for the pebbles and briars, could have been better utilized in climbing the mountain themselves, and those who use these devices of Satan are retarding their own development. As the worthy approach the top, the gloriousness of life is etched before them. They have progressed so far that the pebbles, the briars, and the rocks cannot be seen amidst the breath-taking panorama which lies before them; and they look back over the way they have come with a sense of completeness permeating their being, fully aware that the way has been long and arduous, and that they have had to develop all their faculties to the fullest in order to reach their goal. It was in accordance with this desire to raise human life to its highest level that the women's organization of the Church, the Relief Society, was formed. What better way to give service to humanity, than by giving loving administration with gentle hands to the sick—to help the needy—to give a ready hand to those who need to rehabilitate themselves in society—to help our Latter-day Saint families by sending out visiting teachers—by helping each of our sisters develop to the highest degree, through monthly lessons in theology, where we learn of our Lord's work—in culture where we study the best of the world's literature—in music where we gain an appreciation of this lovely gift—in social science, which we can apply to everyday affairs—in our work meetings, held once a month, which provide an opportunity for the younger members to learn the skill of arts and crafts and homemaking under the guidance of the older members. This, then, is the work of the Relief Society—to help in any way we can.... Spiritually—materially—culturally, or practically, anyone desiring to attain the completeness of soul and the highest degree of happiness i in this life. I pray, that we may toss the pebbles of unkind words from our lives, brush aside the briars of unkind acts that tear and scratch us, and even though we falter because of unjust criticism, that we may straighten up again, and through obedience to the Lord's commandments, set out for our goal, giving a helping hand, without stint, wherever possible. Page 310