She Promise Maud Miller Cook Peace—a sweet tranquility,. Soothing as the dawn, When faith and hope are high, And doubts and fears are gone; It is a glowing light, A quiet, restful calm, That fills the soul of those Who seek this heavenly balm; Although the world is ruled by strife, His promise still holds true, That all who will may claim— "My peace I give to you." Page 354 FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS 355 For the Strength of the Hills (Continued from page 316) he said curtly, "We'll just forget it," although she suspected that his mother was doing theirs along with her own. Camilla was extremely grateful for having such a wonderful motherin-law. She had boundless energy and an efficiency that almost anyone would have envied. She thought nothing of coming over for an hour or two to help with the work in spite of her own numerous duties. If she had been at all superior about it, there could easily have been hurt feelings, but she never was. "I've always worked hard," she said once with a slight shrug. "I guess I'm happiest that way." ONE day, early in July, Camilla watched in some anxiety as the sky darkened and _ great black thunderclouds began rolling in from the west. "I hope that it doesn't lightning," she said to Stan, who was in for his lunch. "I'll never get used to these awful thunderstorms." "If it does I'll have an excuse to stay in here and hold your hand," he remarked cheerfully. "I was going to do some weeding in the lower field, but that can always wait." Half an hour later the thunder was crashing about them as if it would bring down the very mountains, and she sat huddled close in his arms. 'The accompanying rain began coming down in torrents, and Stan remarked, "I'm sure glad that I don't have to get out in this." Camilla turned to him with a look of deep concern on_ her already pale face and said slowly, "I'm afraid that we're going to have to go to the hospital. I thought there'd be two weeks yet—but there isn't." Both of them were remembering that the hospital was fifty miles away, and that she had been warned not to lose any time in coming before she became too uncomfortable. "We just can't leave in a cloudburst like this," he said. "Tl get you there in plenty of time. Just take it easy and relax." "Relax yourself,' she managed to say with a smile. "You have the look of a man about to enter a tiger's cage." "Okay, so we'll both relax," he agreed. "Only, I'll get your things here by the door so that we'll be ready to scat the minute this lets up.": The last of his sentence was drowned in a terrific crash of thunder, and he looked out of the window apprehensively as the rain beat still harder upon the panes. "It would have to happen today,' he scowled, "the worst rain of the year and it has to come today." "Maybe it's the other way around," she suggested, trying to keep her voice normal. "I've heard that electrical storms help fill up the hospitals, but I thought it was just an old wive's tale. Only, I'm not an old wife, and I'm so scared of lightning that I could almost die—and not be struck either." They waited tensely for another quarter of an hour, and then Stan said hopefully, "It's beginning to let up a little now. I think that I 356 e Appropriate eMusic _for eMother's Day HO M-o-t-h-e-r—Morse _ $.20 Mother—Romberg 18 Mother—Rubinstein 18 Mother Machree—Ball 5 Mother O'Mine—Tours 20 Little Mother of Mine— Burleigh _ 00-- 2 --.20 Little Old Lady—Carmichael.20 That's What God Made Mother For—Wood _.20 That Wonderful Mother of Mine—Goodwin 15 Those Songs