[Vol30 | December 1943 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science Standards Life]

Stories from the Book of Mormon Lesson 5Deliverance of Alma and Amulek from Prison For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science lessons. Tuesday, March 28, 1944
Note: For the full effect of this lesson it is imperative that the teacher and the class have at hand the Book of Mormon.
Lesson objective: To show that "the Lord gives us strength according to our faith which is in Christ, even unto deliverance." One of the many great and powerful prophets who cried repentance unto the people of America was Alma the Younger. His conversion to the cause of Christ was similar to that of the ancient Apostle Paul. Alma, too, was visited by an angel who reproved him for his acts against the Lord and then brought him to a true repentance that set him face forward on the path that leads to eternal life.
Knowing the anguish 776 of soul for wrongdoing and also the joy found in the deliverance from sin, Alma spoke with words of fervor the call of repentance: "O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of mine heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people!" (Alma 29:1).
Many of Alma's missionary experiences are among the most dramatic to be found recorded in the Book of Mormon.
Such is the case in his warnings to the wicked city of Ammonihah, at which time he was accompanied by another servant of the Lord, named Amulek.
This story illustrates beautifully the strength the Lord gives to one having unwavering faith in Christa strength even unto the deliverance from enemies. The moving story to be used as a background for this lesson can best be gained by an oral class reading of the events that provide the setting as well as the actual dramatic happenings of Alma's visit to Ammonihah. Elder George Reynolds in his book, The Story of the Book of Mormon, lays a colorful setting, describing the missionary activities that lead up to the imprisonment of Alma and Amulek. The Reynold's account follows. It is suggested that this be read, followed immediately by a complete reading of chapter 14 of the Book of Alma. The questions for active reading and discussion given below will provide opportunity to seek more of the plain and precious truths of the Gospel which appear in the spirited words of Alma and Amulek. "The next year (B. C. 82), Alma turned his face westward. He visited the land of Melek, where his labors
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEDECEMBER 1943 were crowned with abundant blessings.
Having satisfied himself with the good that he had accomplished, he traveled three days' journey on the north of the land of Melek, to a great and corrupt city called Ammonihah.
There he found a godless people, filled with the falsehoods of Nehor, and committing all manner of abominations without repentance, because they cherished the flattering lie, as the foundation of their creed, that all men would be saved.
This city was in the hands of a-corrupt clique of judges and lawyers, who stirred up sedition, tumult and rioting, that they might make money out of the suits that followed such disturbances.
Further than this, they were secretly plotting to overthrow the government, and rob the people of their highly prized liberties.
Among such a people Alma labored in vain; none would listen, none would obey, none offered him rest and food.
Scorn and mockery were his reward; and he was spat upon, maltreated and cast out of the city. "Weary in body and sick at heart because of the iniquity of the people after many fruitless efforts, fervent prayers and long fastings, Alma sought some other people more worthy of salvation's priceless gifts. He bent his way toward the city of Aaron; but as he journeyed, an angel of the Lord (that same angel that beforetime had been the agent in his conversion to God) stood before him and blessed him. He told him to lift up his heart and rejoice, for because of his faithfulness he had great cause to do so.