[Vol30 | December 1943 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Home | Title: Home Topics Windows, Window Fittings, and Curtains]
windows, admiring the decorations. I felt annoyed and asked the chief to send them away. He plead for them, as a father would for children, saying they had never seen anything like it before. Would I not indulge them this once, next time they should be sent (Continued on page 760)
CHRISTMAS PRAYER Claire S. Boyer
O Godman lifts his eyes tonight, He lifts his mind in certainty That Thou art the great ruling light Encompassing humanity, That Thou art love that warms the heart Of every humble child on earth, For as Thy symbol Thou did'st send Thy wordthrough mento earth!
O God, Thou gavest a perfect world, But man, forsaking once Thy face, Saw evil there and straightway hurled Himself into a fearful place A world divided between good And evilhence his soul was torn In twain, lost was his holihood, So came his mortal morn.
O God, he could not see Thee, yet He felt Thy presence ever near, In labor he could not forget, In suffering he seemed to hear Thy voice, eternal, comforting, Filtered through all his weary days, And thus his self was given wings And thus again he sought Thy ways.
Then in Thy blessed charity In Thy compassion, Thou didst send Prophets, with truth to make men free, But few, alas, could comprehend; So, as Thine own great sacrifice, Thy Son was given up to man, To plant Thy Kingdom, though the price Be allto give Thy plan.
Yet still man wavered in the right... Thou wert so very far away, Until man askedthen was new sight Given, to hail a latter day! For time had come for man to know That in his soul was God's own shrine, And"Ask and seek and knock" were so Thou wert revealed! Divine!
O God, at Thy Son's holy hour Of birth, again we turn to Thee Thou hast revealed man's hidden power That can transform humanity! Our earth is wrapped in evil's shroud, We see but darkly through the glass, Yet will Thy light dissolve this cloud And bring Thy Kingdom here to pass.
We, too, shall be the sons of God. When unto Thee we bring the whole Of love, when we transmute the sod Of earthly thought to heavenly soul! O God, tonight we kneel before This dreama Zion of Thy might! Send forth Thy Word from shore to shore And quicken all with thisThy Light
"Ye are divine! Your strength must be Godlike to carry out My plans!" The world waits this reality Give ittonightto man!
Christmas Thoughts of Long Ago
The following excerpts are from