[Vol30 | December 1943 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Drama]
upon the desirable features of have found helpful in cleaning windows. Each. 2. Discuss methods of cleaning windows that are located in the second story of a house. 3. Give suggestions on methods that you Reference America's Housekeeping Book, Sec. 14, page 169. Literature The Bible 38
Literature - Lesson 6A Bible Drama Tuesday, March 21, 1944 ISDOM literature of the Hebrew people rises to its highest peak in the "Book of Job." Here is a drama of superb artistry, portraying the philosophy of life as revealed through the Chosen People. Through living characters, vital problems are lifted into the clear, and saving truths are driven home. Even God Himself, speaking out of the whirlwind, plays a leading role in this Wisdom Drama. Briefly presented, the story of Job is as follows: Job is a wealthy man, ripe in years and steadfast. Nothing, it would seem, is lacking for his complete satisfaction and happiness. God is pleased with his servant Job; yet, He permits the Adversary to put Job to crucial tests to prove his integrity. Of a sudden Job is shorn of his riches. His flocks and herds are stolen, his servants slain, and even his sons are cruelly murdered. Yet, in the face of these losses and searching sorrows, Job utters no complaint, but holds true to his faith in God, saying, The Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away, Blessed be the name of the Lord. Failing to shake Job by this first attack, the Adversary strikes at the body of Job himself. He is smitten with a plague of boils, covering him from head to foot. In his suffering and pain, he goes out-of-doors to sit upon an ash heap and bemoan his fate, crying out, Let the day perish wherein I was born And the night in which it was said, "There is a man child conceived." In his anguish, the persecuted man gives way to the wish that he had never come to earth, but had remained in some blessed place There the wicked cease from troubling And there the weary be at rest. "Wherefore," he wails, "is light given to him that is in misery?" and "Why is light given to a man whose way is hid, and whom God hath hedged in?"
LESSON DEPARTMENT In this extremity, Job's three friends, who have come to comfort him, endeavor to explain to the tried man some cause for his suffering. One of them, Eliphaz, begins: If one assay to commune with thee, wilt thou be grieved? But who can withhold himself from speaking? Behold thou hast instructed many, And thou hast strengthened the weak hands * * * But now it is come unto thee, and thou faintest;; It toucheth thee, and thou art troubled. Then comes the basic suggestion that Job's suffering is the result of sin. Eliphaz continues: Remember, I pray thee, who ever perished, being innocent? Or where were the upright cut off? According as I have seen, they that plow iniquity, And sow trouble, reap the same. Job, however, refuses to accept this shallow argument. 'There are other causes for suffering than just sin. Yet, he says,: If I have sinned, what can I do unto thee, O thou watcher of men? * * * And why dost thou not pardon my transgression, And take away mine iniquity? Then Bildad, another of the friends, upbraiding Job for his assumption of sinlessness and his refusal to accept their argument, says, Doth God pervert judgment? * * If thou wert pure and upright, surely now he would awake for thee. * * * Behold, God will not cast away a perfect man, Neither will he uphold the evil doers. To which Job replies, Of a truth J know that it is so; 7169
But how can man be just with God? * Who hath hardened himself against him, and prospered? Yet, he continues: He destroyeth the perfect and the wicked. Then, Zophar, the third friend, takes up the argument, saying, Should thy boastings make men hold their peace? And when thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed? For thou sayest, My doctrine is pure, And I am clean in thine eyes. * * Know therefore that God exacteth of thee Less than thine iniquity deserveth. Canst thou by searching find out God? Canst thou find out the Almighty to perfection? To which Job retorts: No doubt but ye are the people, And wisdom shall die with you. Then he strikes out a bit savagely at their arguments, saying among other things: With Him is strength and sound wisdom The deceived and the deceiver are His. * * & Though he slay me, yet will I wait for him, Nevertheless I will maintain my ways before him. He also shall be my salvation For a godless man shall not come before him. Almost in despair he continues, Man that is born of a woman Is of few days and full of trouble. He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down, He fleeth also as a shadow and continueth not. Then he cries, Oh, that thou wouldest hide me in Sheol, That thou wouldest keep me secret, until thy wrath be past, That thou wouldest appoint me a set time and remember me! 770
Then comes the eternal question: If a man die, shall he live again? All the days of my warfare would I wait, till my release should come. The friends of Job persist in their arguing, even taunting him for his stubbornness, his refusal to admit sin, and his trust in God's judgment, until finally he cries out: How long will ye vex my soul, And break me in pieces with words? Oh, that my words were now written! * * * That with an iron pen and lead They were graven in the rock forever!
Then with fervor he declares: For I know that my Redeemer liveth, And that He shall stand at the latter day upon the earth: And though, after my skin, worms destroy this body, Yet in my flesh shall I see God. (Job 19:25-26) The drama continues with the arguments being flung rather fiercely back and forth until the goaded Job rises, and with uplifted hands demands of his "miserable comforters" a "bill of particulars." He challenges them, in effect, to point wherein he has failed, when he has "walked in vanity" or been deceitful or been covetous or oppressed his servants or withheld from the poor or not shared with the fatherless. 'Then he concludes: If I rejoiced because my wealth was great, * * & If I rejoiced at the destruction of him that hated me, If my land cry out against me And the furrows thereof weep together; If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEDECEMBER 1943 Or have caused the owners thereof to lose their life: Let thistles grow instead of wheat, And cockle instead of barley! The words of Job are ended! At this outburst of self-defense, another actor steps in. Elihu, a young man, who because of his youth has refrained from taking part, joins in the discussion. His elders having finished, he presents another reason, as he thinks, for Job's suffering. In essence, it has come not because of any sins committed, but rather because of the evil of self-justification.
Elihu says, For Job hath said, "I am righteous, And God hath taken away my right; Notwithstanding my right I am accounted a liar; My wound is incurable, though I am without transgression." Job makes no reply; neither do his three friends reply to the words of the young man, permitting him to argue on with words upon words.
While he speaks, signs of an approaching 'thunderstorm appear in the sky.
Then comes a whirlwind, and finally out of the whirlwind comes a voice saying: =~ Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge?
Gird up now thy loins like a man; For I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me.
Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare, if thou hast understanding ' Who determined the measure thereof, if thou knowest? * Whereupon were the foundations thereof fastened? Or who laid the cornerstones thereof; When the morning stars sang together, And all the sons of God shouted for joy? * * & Or who shut up the sea with doors,. * * & LESSON DEPARTMENT And said, "Hitherto shalt thou come, but no further; And here shalt thy proud waves be stayed?".
Hast thou commanded the morning since thy days began? * Have the gates of death been revealed unto thee e ek Hast thou comprehended the breadth of the earth? Declare, if thou knowest it all. Thus, with searching question upon question are the awed listeners brought to face life's mysteries, and to feel the power and majesty of God, Creator of the universe.
With masterful, poetic strokes the wonders of the world are sketched in picturesque lines like these: Hast thou entered the treasuries of the snow? *  Who hath cleft a channel for the waterflood, Or a way for the lightning of the thunder; To cause it to rain on a land where no man is; * & To satisfy the waste and desolate ground; And to cause the tender grass to spring forth xe oe Who provideth for the raven his food, When his young ones cry unto God, And wander for lack of meat?
Hast thou given the horse his might?
Hast thou clothed his neck with quivering mane? * Doth the eagle mount up at thy command, And make her nest on high?
Then another trenchant question: Shall he that cavilleth contend with the Almighty? He that argueth with God, let him answer it. A lull comes in the storm, and Job, humbly acknowledging God's might and wisdom, says, 771
Behold I am of small account; what shall I answer thee? I lay my hand upon my mouth. With a few other swift strokes, the drama is rounded to a close. Job's humility and steadfastness are approved; his friends are rebuked for "not speaking of me that which is right, as my servant Job hath." They are required to repent and make sac rifice. Job, on the other hand, is rewarded for his righteousness, and restored to health and wealth and happiness. He has passed the soulsearching test. Discussion and Activities. Why may the "Book of Job" be classed as a drama? B. In what respect is it similar to dra ma by Shakespeare? How does it differ from such a drama? C. Why might the drama of Job not be "a stage success" in these days?. What main character besides Job takes part in the drama? B. Where is the main scene in the play? 3- Sketch briefly the story part of the "Book of Job.". What is the main line of argument developed in the discussion carried on by Job and his friends? B. What is the basis of conflict between these friends and Job?. What are some of the unforgettable lines from Job that are frequently heard today? B. Complete the following expressions: "Where the wicked cease..." "I am escaped with the skin..." "When he has tried me, I shall come forth...". What for you is the main message from the drama of Job? B. Point its application for the world today. Note: Quotations given in the lesson are from King James Version of the Bible and from Dr. Moulton's Modern Reader's Bible, which will be found especially helpful in the study of the "'Book of Job." 
 DECEMBER 1943
Social Oelenee What "America" Means Lesson 12Standards of Success in American Life Tuesday, March 28, 1944
Life in America is a never-ending struggle toward the Promised Land; and no sooner have we topped one hill than another still higher rises before us, which we will find the easier to climb since our muscles have been hardened by the earlier effort. No sooner is one victory won than there looms large before us the next conquest to be undertaken. OT only is America a land of opportunity, but it has a people who like to go forth to conquer new land and to bring to a realization their best hopes and ideals. The native American is inventive and resourceful and loves to blaze new trails into the hidden secrets of nature and to develop the resources of the country.
This means not only wealth for the millions, but the realizing of those ambitions which mean much for the happiness of people.
From the beginning of our history, from the days of early Virginia and early New England, the people have been compelled to conquer the soil or perish in the wilderness.
They have gone forth and created villages, farms, and cities out of the land which for ages knew only Indians, wild animals, and virgin forests.
They have built schools and churches, colleges and libraries, museums and concert halls.
They have built beautiful homes, roads, and bridges that have made contact with their neighbors possible.
They have done everything to bring about a peaceful and happy country. "No sooner is one victory won, than there looms large before us the next conquest to be undertaken."  Brander Matthews The American people have accomplished great and lasting things for the development and building up of their country.
Within one hundred years, space has almost been annihilated by the building of railroads and telegraph lines.
Great skyscrapers have replaced the old business blocks.
Streets are paved and lights make homes and trees and the earth gleam and twinkle. Mr. Frederic Harrison, writing about Americans and their will to make successes of their lives, says, "The zeal for learning, justice, and humanity lies deep in the American heart." Dr. Hugh Munsterberg, one of the noted German philosophers of a half century ago, aptly remarked that "the Americans have more ways of realizing the meaning of life than have any other people."
Some critics of American life in general have held that Americans interpret the word "success" to mean material prosperity, the attainment of a comfortable fortune, and the acquisition of the "assured position which money generally gives."
While this standard may be prevalent among a certain class of Americans, it is far from the truth, for the American 'people have been and are LESSON DEPARTMENT a Christian people, and the two hundred and forty-five different Christian sects in this country bear witness that Americans strive to realize the spiritual life over and above the material. I have before me a very long list of American men and women who have been successful in life and who are typical of millions of others.
Although all have aimed at some great goal of human endeavor, no two have aimed at the same goal nor attained the same plane of success; yet each one has added something to the world's betterment. The list includes inventors, engineers, architects, sculptors, painters, musicians, physicians, lawyers, statesmen, soldiers, poets, literary men, journalists, and philanthropists.
Behind the activities of these men there has been a "strong ethical sentiment" and a "strenuous moral purpose" which can only flourish when deeply rooted in idealism. 'The average American may be a practical man, but he is a man moved by high purposes.
Lincoln was a practical politician, but he was an idealist. In fact, the idealism of the "common" men of America has become known the world over. It was "poor John Fitch" who gave us our first steamboat, and a humble teacher who lived in an attic gave us the cotton gin.
Americans are often asked if their country has contributed any one distinct thing or movement for the betterment of humanity. The words of President Eliot of Harvard University, included in Lesson 10, give answer to this question. He said that America had made five important contributions to the advancement of civilization: first, we have 773 done more than any other people to further peace-keeping and to substitute legal arbitration for the brute conflict of war; second, we have set a splendid example of the broadest religious tolerationeven though Holland had first shown us how; third, we have made evident the wisdom of universal manhood suffrage; fourth, by our welcoming newcomers from all parts of the earth, we have proved that men belonging to a.
Great variety of races are fit for political freedom; finally, we have been successful in diffusing material wellbeing among the whole population to an extent unparalleled in any other country of the world. "These five American contributions to civilization," says Professor Brander Matthews, "are all of them the result of the practical side of the American character." President Eliot says that they are "triumphs of reason, enterprise, courage, faith, and justice over passion, selfishness, inertness, timidity, and distrust." The schools and churches of America have always been insistent that every young person should have an aim in life, something loved for its own sake.
Children have had certain standards of success laid constantly before them. An example of such teachings is the famous lecture of Ralph Waldo Emerson entitled "The American Scholar" which was delivered at Harvard University in 1837.
Emerson emphasized the importance of understanding the past history of mankind, pointing out that from the books of the wise men of all ages we receive the influence of the past. "Books are the best of things, well used; abused, among the worst." And then he adds: "When 774 he can read God directly, the hour is too precious to be wasted in other men's transcripts of their readings." He closes his famous address by saying that "when men love men, it will be a wall of defense and a wreath of joy around all. A nation of men will for the first time exist, because each believes himself inspired by the Divine Soul which also inspires all men."
Another fine example of university influence is found in the lecture of Professor Albert Bushnell Hart of Harvard, entitled: "The Hope of Democracy." A few sentences will throw light on what Professor Hart said and taught: He spoke of the ideals that American democracy has given to the world and what the pioneer American has taught us in subduing a continent by sacrifice and labor.
Then he adds, "As a part of this process the Americans have established once and for all the possibility of a democracy in an area immense and various.... The Federal Union covers half a continent, and includes communities of many kinds, fastened together by bands of steel. The railroad section hand, the fireman on a river steamer, the foreignborn laborer hewing a tunnel through the Rocky Mountains, have been helping to weld the Republic together, and thus to transfer popular government to children's children." A true democracy must be founded on a lasting ideal. It must not only grow from beneath, but it must reach out to God in its life. The wrongs that have been done in our Democratic Government have not been because of democracy as such, but in the incompleteness of man's understanding of democracy. Man must be trained, educated, lifted. He must
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEDECEMBER 1943 learn to know his ideal worth and lift himself to it. "True liberty consists in not wanting for ourselves that which we will not grant to all. It is entering into the common life, putting aside special privileges, denying ambitions of indulgence or of power; being ready, not only to serve the common-weal, aye, but to suffer as well." One can hardly think of any standards of thought more sublime than those we have quoted from Emerson and Professor Hart. In spite of much that may seem like evidence to the contrary, the American people as a whole are not setting up false standards of success. 'The writer remembers one of the noble stories that his father used to relate to his children.
Father was a graduate of the medical college of the University of New York, and his graduation took place in the old Cooper Institute. He always loved to speak about Peter Cooper and his funeral which was attended by thousands of people "who held him in high regard because he had made the world a better place in which to live." "The average American clings sturdily to the belief that public service, in office or out of it, is the true gage of life. The most useful citizen is in fact the most successful; and it is those who have given loyal service to the community whom the community holds in highest regard."
Truly and nobly has America established high standards of success. The Gospel of Jesus Christ, restored in this land, embodies the highest and most vital standard of success. The Gospel is vital in its interpretation of human life, and the life lived in the light of this interpretation is the successful life. The LESSON DEPARTMENT Gospel gives to mankind the doctrine of Jesus Christ, as He Himself taught it. It is the divine plan for the redemption. And salvation of man. It is with reverent thought and deep feeling that one writes about the Prophet Joseph Smith and the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
Through the Prophet - Joseph, man's relationship to his Heavenly Father became known.
There was a new vision of the Kingdom of God in which the purpose of God was to culminate in the reign of righteousness upon the earth. God reigns in heaven and in earth. He is the rightful King of nations and the source of supreme good to mankind. The fact that the restoration was reserved for our day, fills us with a deepening sense of our responsibility and duty; and the knowledge that a new standard of success has been revealed from the throne of God. How true are these words: Not what we have but what we use; Not what we see, but what we choose These are the things that mar or bless The sum of human happiness, Not as we take but as we give; Not as we pray but as we live These are the things that make for peace, Both now and after time shall cease.
Questions and Topics of Discussion  1.
What is meant by the quotation at the beginning of this lesson? 2.
What do you think have been the causes of Americans being a progressive people? 3.
What is meant by the word "success'?
Discuss this question and express freely your ideas. 4.
