[Vol30 | December 1943 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: This man was truly a Prophet of the Living God The th Semiannual Conference]
This man was truly a Prophet of the Living God. The 114th Semi-annual Conference (Continued from page 735) published proceedings will be made widely available to the members of the Church. The presence of the women of the Church was sincerely missed.
That which we do without their full participation is always lacking in completeness. If the messages of the 114th Semiannual conference were heeded by the people of the world, or any substantial part of them, there would quickly be restored those conditions of peace and freedom which would enable us to return to some cherished things, and to realize many blessings yet greater than any we have known Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon DECEMBER! 'The month commemorating the birth of the Prince of Peace, finds the sad paradox of a world still at war! The statement of George Lansbury, Britain's pre-war pacifist, is worth pondering that whenever the will to peace becomes mightier than the will to war, we shall have peace.
This will is a qualitative, not quantitative, matter. Six years ago far more people desired peace than war; but the advocates of violence prevailed.
Women want peace. 'They now have more understanding of world conditions than ever before, and more influence.
Their will to peace must be so intense that no effort will be too costly, no price, within the realm of honor, too great to pay for it. SEVERAL women writers of Utah have won national recognition this year.
Have just published Peter's Story Goes to Press by Mrs. Olive Woolley Burt, a twenty-thousand-word story for juveniles. Her illustrated booklet-poem, God Gave Me Eyes, has sold more than 17,000 copies. 'Two of her forthcoming books are written about silver and wool. Mrs. R. Easton Walker, poet, who writes under her maiden name of Courtney E. Cottam, received, in July, the Anne Hamilton Honorable Mention Award, from the Writer Magazine. In the next quarterly issue of the magazine, Poetic Out look, three of her poems will be featured with an article regarding her work. AN interesting writers' enterprise is the Huckleberry Mountain Artists Colony located at Hendersonville, North Carolina, and conducted by Evelyn Haynes.
Classes are offered for writers of short stories, articles, poems, art songs, plays or radio scripts. An annual prize is given in each field.
This year, for the first time, the five judges were unanimous in awarding first place in the poetry contest to Mrs. Eva Willes Wangsgaard for her poem "Unforgetting Roots."
This poem was one of 1,500 entries. She received a $10.00 award and spent a delightful week at the camp as a guest of honor. Mrs. Burt, Courtney Cottam, and Mrs.
745 EDITORIAL 
VOL. 30 DECEMBER 1943 NO. 12
The Blessed Refrain THERE seems to be a spirit of love in the very air one breathes at Christmas timea feeling of friendliness, a desire to help others, and a reaching out to those less fortunate.
This spirit of true love pervades the air of the Christmas scene much as did the voices of the multitude of heavenly hosts nearly 2000 years ago who, praising God, said: "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." To many of the inhabitants of the earth, this year, this message may sound like hollow mockery.
Even in this country there will be few families whose circle will not be smaller, lacking the dear presence of some members who may be in grave danger in far-off lands under strange skies, or who may have gone ahead to that eternal land toward which we are all traveling. But to all saints who bear a love of Christ in their hearts and the knowledge that He is the Redeemer of the world, the first fruits of the resurrection, this heavenly enunciation should have added significance. Now especially should one render "Glory to God in the highest," and gratefully echo the refrain, "and on earth peace, good will toward men." One must give "glory to God" as much as one in his humble way may"For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life." As a result of this greatest Page 746 gift, as a result of the great sacrifice, there may come to all the inhabitants of the earth that peace which the heavenly hosts proclaimed following the angel's announcement of Christ's birth; the peace of the soul which comes from a knowledge of God's eternal plan and a consciousness that one is living in accordance with His plan; the peace which pervades the soul within and is in nowise dependent upon conditions without; the peace to be found in bringing one's own desires and hopes into harmony with the will of the Father and acknowledging "the Lord knows best"; the peace that comes from a ready acceptance of conditions as they affect one from day to day and a willing submission to them; the peace that comes from showing forth love toward one's fellow man even to the extent shown by so many loved ones in this day who stand ready to lay down their lives for their friends; the peace to be found at all times and in all dispensations in the Gospel of Jesus Christ'"The peace of God which passeth all understanding."
With this peace in one's heart, of necessity one has good will toward men.
Then let not the anxieties, the sorrows of this day obliterate the joy to be found in a true observance of this Christmas and an appreciation of the blessed refrain: "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men."M. C. S. - Women and the Church Canning Prog DURING the remarks made by President Clark at the opening session of the 114th semi-annual general conference, he estimated that fifty million cans of food had been preserved by members of the Church in 1943 for family and welfare use. He said:, For this tremendous achievement, the greatest that has come from a_ unified Church effort in a generation, the most credit and gratitude is due to the sisters of the Church who have done all the home canning as well as the bulk of the canning for the Welfare Program and the ward groups. We ask these sisters to receive the heartfelt thanks and congratulations of the whole body of the Church. As the remarks of President Clark were heard by the women members of the Church who were privileged to listen to the conference broadcast, they must have recalled long hours spent in hard work at a welfare cannery or over a hot stove on a summer's day when they had heeded the advice of Church leaders and preserved food for the coming winter. A feeling of satisfaction must also have come to these listeners as they fam visualized the rows of fruit and vegetables preserved for their families' use.
Many of the groups who banded together to go to canneries consisted of members of ward and branch Relief Societies and many pressure cookers owned by Relief Societies were utilized by different ward groups. The General Board extends appreciation for the faithfulness and hard work performed by Relief Society members and the women of the Church in general who did so much to make this stupendous canning program a reality. A mother could ask for no greater blessing than to know that her children will not hunger during the coming winter, and to those women who not only provided for their own needs but for others as well, additional blessings will be visited upon them. An editorial in the Deseret News, October 4, 1943 "Women of the Church, We Pay a Tribute" honored the women for the part they are playing today both in the Church and nation. M.C.S.  ACROSS THE PLAINS OF BETHANY Bertha A. Kleinman Across the plains of Bethany, Across the waves of Galilee, Hark, list, the angels sing!
Beyond the proud Jerusalem, From Bethel to Capernaum, List to the echoes ring!
Angelic hosts from out the sky, Bring adoration from on high, To hail the new-born King. Peace, peace on earth, good will to men, Peace, peace on earth, good will to men, Hail, gloria, and sing! Page 747
Care of the Christmas Gift Plant Hazel D. Moyle, Deseret News Garden Editor CHRISTMAS will be made more C joyous and happy for countless sweethearts, wives, and mothers by the gift of some lovely, living plant, blooming in cultivated perfection. Few gifts carry so eloquent a message of love and courage, or say so well that old, old greeting of "Merry, Merry Christmas," of "Peace on Earth." The Christmas plant has now become one of the most popular and treasured of gifts; never are flowers more appreciated than during this loved season when all our thoughts turn to home and loved ones. "A thing of beauty is a joy forever" sings the poet, but alas! All too often our pleasure upon receiving such a plant is marred by the sad disappointment of seeing our lovely plant begin to droop and fade, often within a few hours after it is received. Why is it so difficult to keep these beautiful specimens of the professional florist's skill happy and contented in the changed environment of the modern living room? Why must the lovely, flaming poinsettia droop its great handsome leaves and vivid flower in such a discouraging manner?
What makes the exquisite cyclamen, with its silken blooms poised like butterflies ready for flight, suddenly wither and become but a ruined shadow of its former glory; and why does that glamorous plant, the azalea, refuse to continue its thrilling show of fluted-petaled flowers and even discard its beautiful glossy foliage? 'These are the Page 748 questions that have puzzled countless recipients of the Christmas gift plant. We seldom stop to consider that the flowering plant has been living in the cool, moist air of the modern greenhouse, and that the change from this humid atmosphere to the hot, dry heat of the modern living room is a severe shock.
Here are a few rules for the care of different gift plants.
While no two are exactly alike in their requirements, one safe rule can be applied to all: namelydo not place your plant near a hot radiator nor in a too hot or heavily curtained room. Few greenhouse plants can endure the temperatures that we human be- - ings find so comfortable. Drafts, too, are extremely detrimental, and many a well-meaning flower lover will stand a beautiful flowering plant in a draft-swept hallway, thinking that it is just the right place for the plant's well-being, when really it supplies the most harmful conditions.
