Thoughts on the Prophet Joseph Smith (Continued from page 732) trees be planted and that all houses should be solidly built. Of the charter, which was to govern this city, he wrote: "The City Charter of Nauvoo is of my own plan and device. I concocted it for the salvation of the Church, and on principles so broad, that every honest man might dwell secure under its protective influence without distinction of sect or party." He believed in home manufacture and under his encouragement many manufactories were established, a few are here mentioned: namely, a cabinet manufactory, a rope manufactory, a bakery, a _ bookstore, and bindery, a comb manufactory, a boot and shoe shop, a carpenter and joiner's shop, a library, a blacksmith shop, a brick kiln, a dentist parlor, a spinning wheel manufactory, a millinery and dressmaking shop, and a watch and clockmaker's shop. In an educational way he was instrumental in having established,. The School of the Prophets, The University of Nauvoo, The Nauvoo Seminary, an Institute, common schools and the Nauvoo Manufacturing and Agricultural Society.
This man was truly a Prophet of the Living God. The 114th Semi-annual Conference (Continued from page 735) published proceedings will be made widely available to the members of the Church. The presence of the women of the Church was sincerely missed.
That which we do without their full participation is always lacking in completeness. If the messages of the 114th Semiannual conference were heeded by the people of the world, or any substantial part of them, there would quickly be restored those conditions of peace and freedom which would enable us to return to some cherished things, and to realize many blessings yet greater than any we have known Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon DECEMBER! 'The month commemorating the birth of the Prince of Peace, finds the sad paradox of a world still at war! The statement of George Lansbury, Britain's pre-war pacifist, is worth pondering that whenever the will to peace becomes mightier than the will to war, we shall have peace.
This will is a qualitative, not quantitative, matter. Six years ago far more people desired peace than war; but the advocates of violence prevailed.
Women want peace. 'They now have more understanding of world conditions than ever before, and more influence.
Their will to peace must be so intense that no effort will be too costly, no price, within the realm of honor, too great to pay for it. SEVERAL women writers of Utah have won national recognition this year.
Holt and Co.
Have just published Peter's Story Goes to Press by Mrs. Olive Woolley Burt, a twenty-thousand-word story for juveniles. Her illustrated booklet-poem, God Gave Me Eyes, has sold more than 17,000 copies. 'Two of her forthcoming books are written about silver and wool. Mrs. R. Easton Walker, poet, who writes under her maiden name of Courtney E. Cottam, received, in July, the Anne Hamilton Honorable Mention Award, from the Writer Magazine. In the next quarterly issue of the magazine, Poetic Out look, three of her poems will be featured with an article regarding her work. AN interesting writers' enterprise is the Huckleberry Mountain Artists Colony located at Hendersonville, North Carolina, and conducted by Evelyn Haynes.
Classes are offered for writers of short stories, articles, poems, art songs, plays or radio scripts. An annual prize is given in each field.
This year, for the first time, the five judges were unanimous in awarding first place in the poetry contest to Mrs. Eva Willes Wangsgaard for her poem "Unforgetting Roots."
This poem was one of 1,500 entries. She received a $10.00 award and spent a delightful week at the camp as a guest of honor. Mrs. Burt, Courtney Cottam, and Mrs.
Wangsgaard are all contributors to The Relief Society Magazine. ISS Mildred Steelman of Salt Lake City won seventeenth place in the hundred prizes offered by the Writer Magazine for the best short-short stories. She was awarded $75.00 worth of books of her own choosing. ME:. Dorothy Handley of Salt Lake City has published stories in the Saturday Evening Post, Family Circle, Romantic Stories, and in the Woman's Home Companion. One was reprinted in England. Page
745 EDITORIAL 
VOL. 30 DECEMBER 1943 NO. 12
The Blessed Refrain THERE seems to be a spirit of love in the very air one breathes at Christmas timea feeling of friendliness, a desire to help others, and a reaching out to those less fortunate.
This spirit of true love pervades the air of the Christmas scene much as did the voices of the multitude of heavenly hosts nearly 2000 years ago who, praising God, said: "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." To many of the inhabitants of the earth, this year, this message may sound like hollow mockery.
Even in this country there will be few families whose circle will not be smaller, lacking the dear presence of some members who may be in grave danger in far-off lands under strange skies, or who may have gone ahead to that eternal land toward which we are all traveling. But to all saints who bear a love of Christ in their hearts and the knowledge that He is the Redeemer of the world, the first fruits of the resurrection, this heavenly enunciation should have added significance. Now especially should one render "Glory to God in the highest," and gratefully echo the refrain, "and on earth peace, good will toward men." One must give "glory to God" as much as one in his humble way may"For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life." As a result of this greatest Page 746 gift, as a result of the great sacrifice, there may come to all the inhabitants of the earth that peace which the heavenly hosts proclaimed following the angel's announcement of Christ's birth; the peace of the soul which comes from a knowledge of God's eternal plan and a consciousness that one is living in accordance with His plan; the peace which pervades the soul within and is in nowise dependent upon conditions without; the peace to be found in bringing one's own desires and hopes into harmony with the will of the Father and acknowledging "the Lord knows best"; the peace that comes from a ready acceptance of conditions as they affect one from day to day and a willing submission to them; the peace that comes from showing forth love toward one's fellow man even to the extent shown by so many loved ones in this day who stand ready to lay down their lives for their friends; the peace to be found at all times and in all dispensations in the Gospel of Jesus Christ'"The peace of God which passeth all understanding."
With this peace in one's heart, of necessity one has good will toward men.
Then let not the anxieties, the sorrows of this day obliterate the joy to be found in a true observance of this Christmas and an appreciation of the blessed refrain: "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men."M. C. S. - Women and the Church Canning Prog DURING the remarks made by President Clark at the opening session of the 114th semi-annual general conference, he estimated that fifty million cans of food had been preserved by members of the Church in 1943 for family and welfare use. He said:, For this tremendous achievement, the greatest that has come from a_ unified Church effort in a generation, the most credit and gratitude is due to the sisters of the Church who have done all the home canning as well as the bulk of the canning for the Welfare Program and the ward groups. We ask these sisters to receive the heartfelt thanks and congratulations of the whole body of the Church. As the remarks of President Clark were heard by the women members of the Church who were privileged to listen to the conference broadcast, they must have recalled long hours spent in hard work at a welfare cannery or over a hot stove on a summer's day when they had heeded the advice of Church leaders and preserved food for the coming winter. A feeling of satisfaction must also have come to these listeners as they fam visualized the rows of fruit and vegetables preserved for their families' use.
Many of the groups who banded together to go to canneries consisted of members of ward and branch Relief Societies and many pressure cookers owned by Relief Societies were utilized by different ward groups. The General Board extends appreciation for the faithfulness and hard work performed by Relief Society members and the women of the Church in general who did so much to make this stupendous canning program a reality. A mother could ask for no greater blessing than to know that her children will not hunger during the coming winter, and to those women who not only provided for their own needs but for others as well, additional blessings will be visited upon them. An editorial in the Deseret News, October 4, 1943 "Women of the Church, We Pay a Tribute" honored the women for the part they are playing today both in the Church and nation. M.C.S.  ACROSS THE PLAINS OF BETHANY Bertha A. Kleinman Across the plains of Bethany, Across the waves of Galilee, Hark, list, the angels sing!
Beyond the proud Jerusalem, From Bethel to Capernaum, List to the echoes ring!
Angelic hosts from out the sky, Bring adoration from on high, To hail the new-born King. Peace, peace on earth, good will to men, Peace, peace on earth, good will to men, Hail, gloria, and sing! Page 747
Care of the Christmas Gift Plant Hazel D. Moyle, Deseret News Garden Editor CHRISTMAS will be made more C joyous and happy for countless sweethearts, wives, and mothers by the gift of some lovely, living plant, blooming in cultivated perfection. Few gifts carry so eloquent a message of love and courage, or say so well that old, old greeting of "Merry, Merry Christmas," of "Peace on Earth." The Christmas plant has now become one of the most popular and treasured of gifts; never are flowers more appreciated than during this loved season when all our thoughts turn to home and loved ones. "A thing of beauty is a joy forever" sings the poet, but alas! All too often our pleasure upon receiving such a plant is marred by the sad disappointment of seeing our lovely plant begin to droop and fade, often within a few hours after it is received. Why is it so difficult to keep these beautiful specimens of the professional florist's skill happy and contented in the changed environment of the modern living room? Why must the lovely, flaming poinsettia droop its great handsome leaves and vivid flower in such a discouraging manner?
What makes the exquisite cyclamen, with its silken blooms poised like butterflies ready for flight, suddenly wither and become but a ruined shadow of its former glory; and why does that glamorous plant, the azalea, refuse to continue its thrilling show of fluted-petaled flowers and even discard its beautiful glossy foliage? 'These are the Page 748 questions that have puzzled countless recipients of the Christmas gift plant. We seldom stop to consider that the flowering plant has been living in the cool, moist air of the modern greenhouse, and that the change from this humid atmosphere to the hot, dry heat of the modern living room is a severe shock.
Here are a few rules for the care of different gift plants.
While no two are exactly alike in their requirements, one safe rule can be applied to all: namelydo not place your plant near a hot radiator nor in a too hot or heavily curtained room. Few greenhouse plants can endure the temperatures that we human be- - ings find so comfortable. Drafts, too, are extremely detrimental, and many a well-meaning flower lover will stand a beautiful flowering plant in a draft-swept hallway, thinking that it is just the right place for the plant's well-being, when really it supplies the most harmful conditions.
This is especially true of the poinsettia, perhaps the most popular of all Christmas plants.
Place your poinsettia in some warm, sunny, draft-free window, after first standing it in a pan of water until moisture shows on the surface of the soil. It should have a warm place which does not go below 70 degrees even at night. A lack of sun, chilling, and too much or too little water are the reasons why the flowers so often droop and fade.
Water the plant thoroughly, using luke-warm water, CARE OF THE CHRISTMAS GIFT PLANT then wait until it begins to dry out slightly on the surface before again _ applying a generous drink.
When the poinsettia begins to droop, after its flowers are all over, its resting time has come.
Give it less and less water and remove it to some cool spot, the basement is ideal, where it can be given just enough occasional watering to keep the roots alive.
When spring comes, cut your plant back to four inches and repot, using fresh garden loam, sand, and leaf mold or mountain soil of equal parts.
Sink the pot outside in some spot where it can receive regular watering and soon it will begin to grow again. Be sure to bring the plant indoors before cold weather, and it will bloom again in time for the holiday season. HE azalea is becoming better known each year, and now rivals the poinsettia in popularity.
This exquisite plant can now be purchased in sizes all the way from a small plant in a five-inch pot to the great specimen tree producing hundreds of lovely blooms.
Should you be the fortunate recipient of one of these gorgeous flowering plants, do find a really cool spot for it. A sun parlor with indirect heat is ideal, but lacking this, place it in a cool window facing east or north. The azalea demands copious watering, twice each day not being too much.
Some successful house-plant growers even keep the pot in a pail of water for a while each day. The roots of this plant are formed in a hard mat, and often the home gardener fails to give enough moisture to penetrate this hard mass. The foliage and stems of the plant should also 749 be sprayed or sprinkled often.
Continue to give constant and plenty of moisture after the flowering period is over and remove the faded buds to prevent the seeds from maturing. If your plant begins to fade or look sick, give it a dose of the acid content which it needsone-half teaspoonful of aluminum sulphate in a quart of water, and apply gradually.
When good weather arrives, the azalea should be put outside, sinking the pot in a hole and filling up with peat moss which is sold by nurserymen and florists.
Water the plant with one-half teaspoonful of any good commercial fertilizer in a quart of water every two or three weeks, and when fall comes, remove the plant to the house, and it will again put out its lovely crop of bloom.
Some local house-plant fans keep azalea plants flowering year after year with such treatment.
The cyclamen is another favorite plant. This grows from a central corm or bulb, much like a gladiolus, and it, too, needs a great deal of moisture, but beware of allowing water to reach the central bulb from which the delicate fleshy stems grow. The best method of watering the cyclamen is to stand the pot in a shallow bucket of warm water for an hour, then drain the water off before placing the plant back on the saucer on which it stands. Never, never, allow water to stand in the saucer under the plant, and if the leaves or stems wither, jerk them sharply away from the bulb before they begin to rot, for this may spread to the bulb itself. Do not expect to keep the cyclamen happy in your living room, but place it in some really cool, light window, which faces east so as to avoid full sun. If you can keep the cyclamen cool enough, it will go on opening its abundant supply of buds for weeks, and may even develop new ones.
We are all familiar with the cheery little Jerusalem cherry plant with its gay Christmas colors of red and green, but sad to tell, this dainty plant usually presents problems to keep it from dropping all its leaves soon after it comes into our overheated homes, for this plant considers 50 degrees a comfortable temperature in which to display its bright berries. If you receive this plant for Christmas, place it at once in your coldest north window, and spray and sprinkle the leaves several times each day to supply the moisture which it craves. The pepper plant with its oblong berries that are found in all stages of growth and coloring, endures a warm room much better than does the Jerusalem cherry, but it, too, needs the same constant care of watering and spraying. A daily bath and plenty of moisture it must have in order to be happy.
One other plant is grown extensively in local nurseries for Christmas time, the improved begonia semperflorens. Grandmother grew this plant in her kitchen window, but how the modern plant wizards have glamoured it and made it sparkle! The plants we enjoy today are a dazzling mound of vivid color with the flowers almost obliterating the foliage. If you can find just the right conditions for this plant, it will go on blossoming for you all winter, and you can take cuttings from it for planting out in your garden in the spring where they will continue their amazing flowering week after week. Place the plant, during the summer, in your coolest window which has sun, but guard against allowing the hot midday sun to strike it through the glass. This plant, too, needs plenty of moisture, but should not be kept sopping wet, just constantly moist.
To keep these flowering plants in bloom is no easy task, as you can see, but it is well worth taking the time to give each plant somewhat the conditions it needs, for nothing gives a home such a gay and happy note as do a few blossoming flowers, especially when ice and snow are in command on the other side of the window pane.
ONE STAR Della Adams Leitner
The heavens were filled with myriad stars, But one star led the way Unerringly through unknown lands To where the Christ Child lay.
And in this day of flickering lights One steadfast beam from far Leads Christward every soul who seeks, God's love, His guiding star.
Christmas on Tubuai in 1851 Nettie Hunt Rencher
My grandmother, Louisa Barnes Pratt, was the first woman to be called to fill a mission for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In conference in Salt Lake City on the 6th of April, 1850, she received her call. When President Brigham Young set her apart for this work, he made her many wonderful promises which were literally fulfilled. Her mission was to the women and children of the South Sea Islands. She and her family of four daughters left Salt Lake City on the 7th of May, 1850, in company with ten missionaries, some of whom took their families. Louisa's husband, Addison Pratt, had preceded her eight months before. She made the long journey of one thousand miles by land, and five thousand miles by water in safety, as she had been promised. Five and a half months being required to make the journey. Her eldest daughter, a young lady nearly nineteen years of age, learned the language very easily, and acted as interpreter for her mother until she had mastered the language. Being born and reared in Massachusetts, Louisa had a splendid education for that day and time. She had taught school in the States, in Canada, Nauvoo, Winter Quarters, and Salt Lake City, and was now to continue her teaching in the Islands. She did a great work among the women and children of Tubuai, where she spent most of her time. She kept a journal a good deal of her life, and all the time while on her mission, the first entries being made more than one hundred years ago. It is from this journal that the story of "Christmas on Tubuai in 1851" is taken, given in her own words:
When Christmas was drawing near, I called the Native Sisters around me and told them of the nearing event. We had taught them of the Savior's life and mission. I told them we would have a big celebration, and of course a great feast, as no affair was complete without a feast. They were all very much pleased. First I told them we must clean the large room used for church services, or angels would not minister unto us, for they take no delight in filth. So we took sand and scoured the benches and floor, to the delight of the native women who had not witnessed anything of the kind before. Now began our decorating. In the center of the room was a large pillar supporting the roof. On either side I placed an ito tree, of the most livid green, extending almost to the roof; to these I attached tea leaves, of which the females make wreaths because of their bright color, and pleasant odor. Added to these the bright fresh flowers of the bouran tree scattered about among the branches forming a pleasing contrast of lively green and yellow. Overhead and around the entire room, I hung boughs, flowers and branches of the lime tree with the fruit on. I had with me a picture of the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum; these I hung on the wall. The native Saints regard them with great reverence. Then we invited our Church members and intimate friends. The natives gathered from far and near; thronged around the house, looking in at the windows, admiring the decorations. I felt annoyed and asked the chief to send them away. He plead for them, as a father would for children, saying they had never seen anything like it before. Would I not indulge them this once, next time they should be sent (Continued on page 760)
CHRISTMAS PRAYER Claire S. Boyer
O Godman lifts his eyes tonight, He lifts his mind in certainty That Thou art the great ruling light Encompassing humanity, That Thou art love that warms the heart Of every humble child on earth, For as Thy symbol Thou did'st send Thy wordthrough mento earth!
O God, Thou gavest a perfect world, But man, forsaking once Thy face, Saw evil there and straightway hurled Himself into a fearful place A world divided between good And evilhence his soul was torn In twain, lost was his holihood, So came his mortal morn.
O God, he could not see Thee, yet He felt Thy presence ever near, In labor he could not forget, In suffering he seemed to hear Thy voice, eternal, comforting, Filtered through all his weary days, And thus his self was given wings And thus again he sought Thy ways.
Then in Thy blessed charity In Thy compassion, Thou didst send Prophets, with truth to make men free, But few, alas, could comprehend; So, as Thine own great sacrifice, Thy Son was given up to man, To plant Thy Kingdom, though the price Be allto give Thy plan.
Yet still man wavered in the right... Thou wert so very far away, Until man askedthen was new sight Given, to hail a latter day! For time had come for man to know That in his soul was God's own shrine, And"Ask and seek and knock" were so Thou wert revealed! Divine!
O God, at Thy Son's holy hour Of birth, again we turn to Thee Thou hast revealed man's hidden power That can transform humanity! Our earth is wrapped in evil's shroud, We see but darkly through the glass, Yet will Thy light dissolve this cloud And bring Thy Kingdom here to pass.
We, too, shall be the sons of God. When unto Thee we bring the whole Of love, when we transmute the sod Of earthly thought to heavenly soul! O God, tonight we kneel before This dreama Zion of Thy might! Send forth Thy Word from shore to shore And quicken all with thisThy Light
"Ye are divine! Your strength must be Godlike to carry out My plans!" The world waits this reality Give ittonightto man!
Christmas Thoughts of Long Ago
The following excerpts are from editorials by Emmeline B. Wells, published in the December 1890, and 1891 issues of the Woman's Exponent.
December 15, 1891The people who dwell in these mountain vales have much to be grateful for even though they have some things not so agreeable. The children, for instance, their playhouses overflow on Christmas day; Santa has been very lavish in his regular supplies for the last few years, and our children of the present know very little of what the generation now grown up experienced in the early years in these valleys. Some of the many little stockings that were hung up around the primitive fireplaces were very scantily filled and others perhaps not at all. The mothers in those days didn't go out looking for Santa Claus, but many an earnest and heartfelt prayer was offered with tearful eyes and sorrowing heart, that the little ones might be happy and contented on Christmas day with what little it was possible to bestow.
December 15, 1890We should be joyful at Christmas time for the sake of the children, if not for our own sake, and even if burdens oppress us or griefs have overtaken us, lay them aside for the time being and contribute in some measure to the enjoyment of others.... Children's impressions are deep-seated and strong and often follow them through life, and perhaps there is not a day that fastens itself more closely upon the heart and remembrance, and to which the child when grown to manhood turns with greater affection, than Christmas day at the old home, whether he goes out into the world alone, or travels the raging main, on sea or land wherever he may be, when the blessed Christmas time comes he invariably recalls the incidents of home life.
Tomorrow's Cup Anna Prince Redd
CHAPTER IX
Synopsis: Janet still fearful of San Juan, returns to El Toro with her twins to find that the country has risen to strike at her again, this time in the guise of a friend, now blind and helpless. It is almost more than she can face; but seeing the pain and disappointment in her husband's eyes, she determines to conquer her fears and accept the inevitable for his sake. In being "eyes and ears" for Dr. Groneman, Janet comes to an understanding of the strength and grandeur of San Juan, and above all, of the beauty around her. When it comes time for the famous doctor to return to his home in New York, she decides that his last day in the country shall be one to be remembered through all his dark and lonely days to come. This high resolve is all but shattered when the doctor announces that he wants to spend the day at the river. At once, and with renewed force, Janet's fears return, for the river above all else holds the most dread for her. But she courageously accepts the challengefor she feels that it is oneand says they will go to the river.
"Here's where we chute the chutes down the dugway," Janet warned. They rounded a curve, hung suspended above the river for a terrifying moment, and then shot downward with a speed that took Groneman's breath. He held onto his hat, whistled with satisfaction and measured their descent in seconds as they careened down the narrow dugway toward the bottom of the gorge.
Groneman chuckled. "You drive as though you want to get there before you change your mind."
"Sorry," Janet apologized. "We'll approach the monster with caution!" She jammed on the brakes and skidded to a snail's pace.
Groneman leaning back leisurely gave a short, teasing laugh. "Monster?" he questioned. "Prehistoric or current?"
"Please!" Janet's voice was tense. "I try not to fear this country. Most of the time I can divert my unreasoning attitude" She laughed shakily. "Silly, isn't it? And the funny part is that the river isn't at all concerned about my fear. It is concerned only with its relentless destinationjust as I am with mine. Sometime our paths will cross. One of us will have to yield the right of way, and from the looks of that gorge down there, it won't be the river!"
Janet proceeded down the dugway at a pace that was very safe and sane, but Groneman knew she was trembling. Potsworth had told him that much of Janet's illness was the result of her instinctive fears. But he had discredited the extent of that, or he would not have insisted upon this trip to the river. He'd hoped vaguely that in some way he could help her. Now he knew that only the river itself could do that. And the country itself. Janet would never be happy in San Juan unless it took her to its heart by its own strength and beauty, its spiritual grandeur.
"Shall we walk to the edge?" Janet asked, seemingly controlled.
"If you'll promise not to look down and get dizzy," he agreed lightly, glad to be rid of his unprofitable speculations.
They left the car with its engine pointing down hill, stalled against a boulder, and walked to the edge of the gorge just above the bridge that spanned it.
"Um-m-m, I can smell the water!" Groneman sniffed appreciatively. "Wonderful smell, isn't it?"
"I like wood smoke," Janet evaded. "I can smell fire."
From across the river, close to the bridge, came a long, thin "Hello-o-!"
Janet's eyes traced to the source of the call. On a jut of rock twenty feet or more above the water level stood two naked little figures, wraithlike against a spiral of smoke.
"Juanee's twins!" Groneman exclaimed. "Tugi-Chee and Maneto!"
"Yes." Janet clutched his arm. "They'reThat's too high! It's halfway up to the bridge. They can't dive from there!"
"How high is it?"
"I don't know. Only tell them not to dive; they'll listen to you!"
"If I know those kids, they'll make it!"
"Nine-year-old boys! How can they know what the river will do to them?"
The call came again. Friendly. Urgent. "Hello-o Miss Janet!"
"They'rewaiting for us to signal... They want me to see them... Please, Dr. Mark, tell them it's too high!"
"Wave to them, Janet. It's the only way to conquer your fear."
"No! How can you ask such a thing?"
Groneman raised his own arm as if to wave for her. Janet thrust it sharply aside, said nervously: "II didn't realize they are so tall.... They're exactly the same height.... And their hair wet from the last divegleams like anthracite. Did you ever see such perfect bodies?"
"You're evading, Janet. Wave to them."
"II can't! It would kill them to dive from there. The river's a devil!"
"Wave, Janet. They'll come up. You'll see that they will."
"I can't, I tell you!" Janet sprang back. "The current! Listen to it, snarling as if it were alive! It is alive!" She took a step forward. "I'll wave," she said slowly, and raised one arm. "You're cruel! Cruel when I thought you were kind."
"We see you, Maneto!" Groneman shouted, pretending not to hear.
There was not a sound.... Then a single splash, a moment later an exultant, long cry. Janet tried to shut her eyes but her lids were frozen with fear. Then she saw themtwo black heads bobbing like corks on the water, four copper arms rising and falling in unison.
Groneman, listening intently, said: "They swim with almost no effort. It's beautiful."
Under his slow, cool voice, Janet began to relax. Juanee's boys were safe. No! She couldn't see them at all! There was nothing where they had been but a deep trough where a current had cut through! She gave a terrified scream. "They've gone under!"
"They'll come up. Keep your eyes open, Janet."
"Yes. Yes, I will. But isn't itShouldn't we do something?"
"There they are," Groneman said with assurance, touching her arm.
"How could you tell?"
"I heard the water, placid after the current, break above their heads. I could hear them gulp new breath."
Tears coursed down Janet's face. "You do not need eyes," she said humbly.
"Can you see them, Janet? Have they come ashore?"
"They'll pop up pretty quickly." Janet was surprised at her own assurance. "They must have a trail that leads up and down to the waterand there they are, heads bashfully peeking around a boulder, their bodies out of sight."
"How you like that?" the boys asked proudly.
"Fine!" Groneman answered. "That was a pretty swell dive! How do you judge your distance?"
"We measure us. Every six moons we measure us," Maneto said.
"Five times we measure us. Ethli, noki, ta, tee, ostha," counted Tugi-Chee. "Five times higher than our own heads we dive!"
And they scurried away to dress.
Janet turned toward the car. "We'll have to hurry if we get to the Goosenecks," she said.
The sun was setting when they reached the plateau and crossed to Lookout Point. They left the car and walked to the brink. Twelve hundred feet below lay the Great San Juan Goosenecks.
Janet sighed raptly. She began, hesitantly: "The gorge is gray-pink; misty, yet shot with spikes of gold from the sun. Far below us the Goosenecks build up. Layer upon layer, like pyramids. Each crusted stratum is smaller than the one before, until at the very top, hundreds of feet above, the mammoth lobes end in giant, tilted pancakes ready to slide from their dizzy height."
Groneman's face lighted up. He said: "Yes, I see it plainly."
Janet's pulse quickened, her eyes shone, her voice deepened. "There is nothing else like it in all the world!" she breathed. "Each meander, interlocking on alternate sides of the gorge, is connected to its parent wall by the thinnest of partitions. Mere necks that shape the river into gleaming platters for the stacks to rest upon." Her voice caught, tears glistened in her eyes, but she went on, after a deep, steadying breath. "The river goes in and out around each curve, undercutting on the outside, building sand bars on the inside. Smooth. Relentless. Three miles to achieve a hundred yards. We'reFrom down there, we're but dots against the sky!"
Her voice took on new meaning, became the voice of a scriptural reader, hushed with reverence. "Sunlight. Vastness. Strength. Blended into such spiritual grandeur that I can't breathe...."
Groneman's hand brushed across his sightless eyes. "So shall the lame be made to walk and the blind to see," he said reverently.
They drove back through the scented desert night, and it was five years before Dr. Groneman returned to El Toro. Five years in which Janet turned steadfastly from the river, hoarding his last sentence there at the Goosenecks, wondering when she, the lame, would be made to walk, by faith and without fear.
The sun hung in its place in the hot dome of sky above El Toro with blistering intensity. Day after day through the long dry summer, Janet had watched it curl the leaves and sear the earth. Sand drifted across the paths and around the house, ankle deep, hotter than the sun and dryer than the wind that blew it there. Floors wore a constant film of dust and grit in spite of her efforts to keep them clean. Nothing escaped the ravages of the drought. Sand drifted through every crevice, sifted between the sheets of the beds, and lodged in the pockets and seams of clothing. Insects multiplied into a plague. Water stood hot in the barrels, and there was no ice to cool it for a drink.
Five years! Janet poured the dishwater from her pan onto the few plants in the yard that she had stubbornly kept alive. Most of it went to the swing tree. Jerry and Paulette's swing treeplanted the day they were born.... Five years! Years in which Paul had seen his herds dwindle to half their number. Cattle, crazy from thirst, plunged over canyons at the smell of water they couldn't reach. Another year of this and Paul would be penniless, robbed of all he had so stubbornly achieved.... But what was the good of thinking about that?
She took her empty pan and went in out of the sun. As she came in, Paulette began to cry. "I'm too hot," she moaned, "and Jerry broke my fan."
Janet smiled encouragement. "Daddy will be home tonight, and he'll fan you with his big hat."
Paulette was a lovely, golden-haired child, as different from her brother as day from night. Jerry was dark like Paul, tempestuous like his mother. Paulette, usually all smiles, was like neither of them. Rhae and Warren Newsbaum claimed her, spoiling her as much as Paul would let them. Every summer, regardless of rain or drought the Newsbaums came to their ranch in the desert. Paul, scoffing at first, had long ago added them to the list of his country's converts. Janet had never ceased to wonder at her sister's swift acceptance of everything and everyone in the whole country.
One more year of this, however, and the stoutest enthusiasm would wane. Summer after summer as the drought had persisted she had taken the children and gone East for a brief stay, merely to please Paul. It was too hot anywhere for comfort. This time she had refused to go. A few years from even the dearest place and one became a stranger. The noise of Washington frightened Paulette, and Jerry was restless and dissatisfied there. "Kids in this town don't know how to play," he'd scoffed. "They've never even shot a bow and arrow!"
When her father had died, the last tie was broken and this year she had stayed in San Juan.
"Mother, look!" Jerry's excited tone brought Janet back to the present. "There comes a strange car. I betcha it's coming here!"
"Betcha?" Janet reproved. "Is that the way to talk?"
"Bet your boots! Daddy says those words 'riginated right here in San Juan, and anything that 'riginates here is okay by me!"
Janet smiled above the clean dress she was holding over Paulette's head. Already this five-year-old son was fierce with loyalty. The little dress fell, crooked, over Paulette's head.
"Mother, you smother me!" Paulette gasped.
Janet straightened the dress absently. Jerry tugged at her sleeve. "Aren't you the least bit excited?" he questioned. "Let's go out on the porch!"
Paulette had already dashed out to see who was coming. Jerry had waited for his mother. He always did, and it never failed to make Janet's heart leap, and to tighten her throat. She took his hard little hand and they ran to make up for lost time.
The car swung into the yard, sending a shower of sand into the air. "They'll be drenched," Janet thought, and smiled at the incongruity of the term. She said: "Jerry, I'll bet that's Uncle Warren's new car!"
"It is, Mother!" Paulette was already dancing up the path between Rhae and Warren Newsbaum.
"Only this minute I was thinking of you!" Janet cried. "Oh, I'm so glad you've come. But to what a place!"
"Best country in the world!" Jerry quoted. "How do you do, Uncle Warren?"
Warren Newsbaum shook hands with his young nephew soberly. "I'm fine, Jerry. And you're right about the country, son."
"Then we're glad you've come to El Toro," Jerry said, and led them grandly into the house.
"Jerry makes the most of company," Janet smiled behind his straight little back.
Warren tossed her an assenting nod, and there was a tender twinkle in his eyes.
"Did you bring the house that's to look like El Toro?" Paulette asked her Aunt Rhae.
"We did, Sweet," Rhae hugged her happily. "It's in our pocket books."
"Then it isn't nearly as large as El Toro!" Paulette said proudly.
"Where's Paul?" Rhae asked, her arm affectionately around Janet.
"I'm ready for a little sparring again!"
Janet laughed appreciatively. "Every time you come I expect it to be your last, the way you two fight. Paul will be here tonight."
"We'll stage a celebration," Rhae suggested.
"I hope Daddy'll like it," Jerry said.
Janet flushed with embarrassment. Rhae and Warren laughed good naturedly.
"From the mouths of babes," Rhae quoted.
"I'm not a baby," Jerry said angrily. "I'm five years old!"
Warren Newsbaum slapped him on the back. "Right you are, old man," he said. "Right you are."
Jerry flinched, but his dignity was fully restored.
After dinner Janet put the children to bed. Her head throbbed after the long day of heat and the excitement of seeing her own folks again. Rhae had retired early, leaving Warren to sit on the porch with Janet, to wait for Paul.
"She wants to be fresh for the encounter," Warren laughed. "Right now this heat has dulled even my enthusiasm."
For a while the two on the porch were silent. Finally Janet spoke: "I can't think what's keeping Paul. He sent the foreman ahead to tell me he'd be home early this afternoon. The cattle are jumpy and dry. Anything can happen at a time like this!"
"Here he comes, now," Newsbaum said cheerfully. "Hear that horse?"
Janet was on her feet. "That isn't Paul; he wouldn't be riding that hard. It's a runner! Something's happened!"
Warren Newsbaum's hand reached out in the dark to steady her.
"Miss Janet!" Indian Joe's voice penetrated Janet's consciousness before she realized the riding had ceased.
"Tell me..." Janet's voice was steady.
"There's been"
"A stampede," Joe answered.
"Yes. I knew there would be. Will Mr. Paul come home?"
"Yes, Miss Janet."
"Thanks, Joe. Goodnight. Goodnight, Warren."
Warren understood Janet's need. "Goodnight," he said, and left her to wait alone....
(To be continued)
Christmas on Tubuai in 1851 (Continued from page 751)
away. I felt that he was right, and consented for them to feast their eyes as long as they wished.
Then came the dinner, and such a feast! Pigs weighing as much as a hundred pounds roasted whole, plenty of wild chickens, fish of all kinds, poi, bread fruit, cocoanuts, with the fresh milk from them as a beverage, pineapples, bananas and many kinds of native fruit unknown in America. Each article of food, as it is prepared usually the day before, is wrapped in large leaves excluding the air, and piled in a heap resembling a small hay stack. Mats were spread for the guests to sit upon. A very few had a knife, fork or spoon. No dish washing, new dishes for every meal. A large palm leaf is placed before each person, and removed when the meal is finished. Leaves platted together formed the table cloth.
When all was in readiness for the dinner Elder Franklin Grouard blessed the food and offered thanks for our multiplicity of blessings. After dinner we held a religious service. As evening came on we illuminated the house with all the glass lamps in the village. The lights threw over all a mantle of romance exceeding anything I had ever seen. Elder Jonathan Crosby playing the violin and our daughter Ellen the flutina, made the instrumental music; added thereto the sweet melody of human voices, made it seem in reality like the birthday of our blessed Savior.
The day was extremely warm, as December and January are the summer months here, and as I gazed at the scenery, beautiful beyond description, the tall stately cocoanut trees reaching toward the sky, verdure everywhere, the roar of the mighty ocean, it seemed I must be in a different world entirely from the one on which my parents, and all my relatives, save those who were with me, lived, wrapped in ice and snow, as I knew they would be on this day in far away Canada and New England; but I knew their love and blessings were being wafted to us, and that in their hearts, as in ours, glowed the love of the lowly Master and the Spirit of Christmas.
Supply of Relief Society Songs Exhausted
The General Board regrets to announce that the supply of Relief Society Songs is exhausted, and because of the shortage of metal it will be impossible to issue a new edition at this time.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology
Articles of Faith Lesson 22Religious Liberty and Toleration Tuesday, March 7, 1944
Article 11: We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship, how, where, or what they may.
Lesson Aim: To show that religious liberty and toleration are principles safeguarded by our inspired Constitution, and that they are supported by all Sacred Scriptures; that they enable men to inherit whatever kingdom of glory they desire in righteousness, but that intolerance is an enemy to God and impedes the progress of man.
CONDENSATION OF CHAPTER 22, TALMAGE'S, ARTICLES OF FAITH
Man's Right to Freedom in Worship
The Latter-day Saints proclaim their unqualified allegiance to the principles of religious liberty and toleration. Freedom to worship Almighty God as the conscience may dictate, they affirm to be one of the inherent and inalienable rights of humanity. The inspired framers of our charter of national independence proclaimed to the world, as a self-evident truth, that the common birthright of humanity gives to every man a claim to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
What is Worship?
The derivation of the term suggests an answer. It comes to us as the lineal descendant of a pair of Anglo-Saxon words, meaning worthy, and condition or state, and connotes the thought of worthy-ship. The worship of which one is capable depends upon his comprehension of the worthiness characterizing the object of his reverence. Man's capacity for worship is a measure of his comprehension of God. True worship cannot exist where there is no reverence or love for the object. Knowledge is essential to worship; man cannot adequately serve God in ignorance. Worship is the voluntary homage of the soul. Formalism in worship is acceptable only so far as it is accompanied by an intelligent devoutness. The most acceptable form of worship is that which rests on an unreserved compliance with the laws of God as the worshiper has learned their purport.
Religious Intolerance
The Latter-day Saints accept as inspired the constitutional provision by which religious liberty within our own nation is professedly guarded, that no law shall be made "respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof;" and they confidently believe that with the spread of enlightenment throughout the world a similar guaranty will be acquired by every nation. Intolerance has been the greatest hindrance to progress in every period of time; yet under the sable cloak of perverted zeal for religion, nations, while boasting of their civilization, and professed ministers of the Gospel of Christ, have stained the pages of the world's history with the record of such unholy deeds of persecution as to make the heavens weep. Christ, in His ministry among the people of Israel, saw with compassionate sorrow the spiritual and intellectual bondage of the times, and declared unto them the saving word: "The truth shall make you free" (John 8:32).
Intolerance is Unscriptural
The teachings of our Lord breathe the spirit of forbearance and love even to enemies. Hatred was not countenanced even toward foes. His instructions were: "Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you; that ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven...." (Matt. 5:44, 45)
Toleration is not Acceptance
It is in nowise inconsistent for Latter-day Saints to boldly proclaim the conviction that their Church is the accepted one, the only one entitled to the designation "Church of Jesus Christ," and the sole earthly repository of the eternal Priesthood in the present age, and yet to willingly accord kind treatment and a recognition of sincerity of purpose to every soul or sect honestly professing Christ.
Man is Accountable for His Acts
The unbounded liberality and tolerance with which the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints regards other religious denominations, and the teachings of the Church respecting the assurance of final redemption for all men except the few who have fallen so far as to have committed the unpardonable sin, thereby becoming sons of Perdition, may suggest the erroneous conclusion that we believe that all so redeemed shall be admitted to equal powers, privileges, and glories in the kingdom of heaven. Far from this, the Church proclaims the doctrine of many and varied degrees of glory, which the redeemed will inherit in accordance with their merits.
Graded Glories
To the apostles, the Messiah said: "In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also" (John 14:2-3).
A fuller knowledge of this subject has been imparted in the present dispensation. From a revelation given in 1832, we learn that three great kingdoms or degrees of glory are established, known as the Celestial, the Terrestrial, and the Telestial. Far below the last and least of these, is the state of eternal punishment prepared for the sons of Perdition (Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 76).
The Kingdoms with Respect to One Another
The three kingdoms of widely differing glories are severally organized on a plan of gradation (See Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 76; 131:1; also II Cor. 12:2). It is reasonable to believe, in the absence of direct revelation by which alone absolute knowledge of the matter could be acquired, that, in accordance with God's plan of eternal progression, advancement within each of the three specified kingdoms will be provided for; though as to possible progress from one kingdom to another the scriptures make no positive affirmation. Eternity is progressive; perfection is relative; the essential feature of God's living purpose is its associated power of eternal increase.
The Sons of Perdition
We learn of another class of souls whose sins are such as to place them beyond the present possibility of repentance and salvation. These are called sons of Perdition.
SUGGESTIONS FOR CLASS PROCEDURE
Suggested Songs
"Come, O Thou King of Kings," Parley P. Pratt, Relief Society Songs, page 1; Latter-day Saint Hymns, No. 158.
"The Lord Is My Shepherd," T. Kaschat, Arr., Relief Society Songs, page 29; Deseret Sunday School Songs, No. 212.
"My Prayer," P. P. Bliss, Relief Society Songs, page 35; Deseret Sunday School Songs, No. 294.
Solo"In My Father's House Are Many Mansions," Mac Dermid.
It is suggested that for this lesson the class leader, prior to the class period, place on a blackboard in front of the room a brief outline of the lesson. At the beginning of the class period, the attention of class members should be called to this outline with the suggestion that they note the development of the lesson in accordance with the outline.
In the early editions of the Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage, a series of questions and suggestive exercises were included. The 15 questions included for this lesson (Chap. 22) might be copied and at the beginning of the class distributed among 15 class members, one question to an individual. Persons receiving the questions should be informed that answers to the questions will be found in the presentation of the lesson; they should be told to follow the lesson carefully so as to be prepared to answer the questions when called upon to do so. Because of the great number of questions, answers must be brief. The class leader must then make sure that answers to these questions are to be found in her presentation of the lesson, and that her lesson be so planned as to allow time for answers.
Dr. Talmage's questions for chapter 22 follow:
1. What is worship?
2. Show that man's ability to worship rightly is a measure of his conception of God's attributes and powers.
3. Show that worship, to be valid, must be voluntary.
4. Demonstrate man's right to freedom in worship.
5. Explain the intolerance, in matters of worship, characterizing early and modern times.
6. Show that intolerance is unscriptural.
7. Demonstrate that tolerance is not necessarily acceptance.
8. Show that man, being free to choose for himself, is justly held accountable for his acts.
9. Explain Christ's expression, "In my Father's house are many mansions."
10. What kingdoms or degrees of glory are specified in the revealed word of God?
11. Who are to inherit the Celestial glory?
12. For whom is the Terrestrial glory provided?
13. Who will be consigned to the Telestial kingdom?
14. What is known of the gradation of glory within each of the kingdoms specified?
15. Who are the sons of Perdition? What is known of their fate?
Note: Class members should be urged to continue to bring to class copies of the standard works of the Church.