[Vol28 | January 1941 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: MissionThe New Home in Parsons]
houses  were  erected,  mission  homes 
and  mission  chapels  were  acquired, 
and  missionary  work  was  augment- 
ed financially  in  keeping  v^th  the 
changing  economic  conditions  of  the 
missionaries  and  the  demands  of 
the  mission  fields.  Numerous  shrines 
of  early  Church  history  were  acquir- 
ed in  Vermont,  New  York  and  Mis- 
souri. The  Church  undertook  the 
construction  of  its  first  hospital  in 
Salt  Lake  and  erected  its  Bishop's 
Building  and  magnificent  Church 
Administration  Building  to  house 
the  various  offices  of  the  rapidly 
growing  Church.  In  addition.  Presi- 
dent Smith  selected  and  dedicated 
sites  for  Temples  in  Hawaii  and  Can- 
ada. 
Much  adverse  criticism  was  heap- 
He  continued  the  financial  policies     ed  upon  the  Church  in  general  and 
of  President  Snow  with  such  success      President  Smith  personally  for  this

56 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY,   1941 
apparent  outward  show  of  what  was 
termed  a  growing  'Vorldliness"  on 
the  part  of  the  Church.  President 
Smithy  however,  had  a  broader  vi- 
sion than  his  small-souled  critics.  He 
made  Httle  distinction  between  the 
temporal  and  spiritual,  or  the  earth- 
ly and  the  eternal,  and  viewed  them 
as  being  integrally  associated.  He 
replied,  *'It  has  always  been  a  cardi- 
nal teaching  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints  that  a  religion  that  has  not 
the  power  to  save  people  temporally 
and  make  them  prosperous  and  hap- 
py here,  cannot  be  depended  upon 
to  save  them  spiritually  and  exalt 
them  in  the  life  to  come." 
OUTSTANDING 
CONVICTIONS  OF  HIS  LIFE 
As  one  reads  extracts  from  the 
numerous  sermons  and  writings  of 
this  sixth  President  of  the  Church, 
it  becomes  apparent,  because  of  the 
frequency  with  which  they  are  stress- 
ed, that  two  convictions  actuated 
him  in  all  of  his  conduct  and  teach- 
ings: first,  his  testimony  of  Jesus  and 
His  atoning  work;  second,  the  unwav- 
ering certainty  of  the  divinity  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith's  mission  and 
the  reality  of  the  truths  that  were 
revealed  through  him.  In  these 
revelations  of  God's  plan  of  salva- 
tion, he  saw  that  human  personality 
and  human  relationships  were  the 
fundamentals  that  would  survive  in 
the  eternities,  if  obedience  to  God's 
will  had  been  shown  during  mortal- 
ity. 
FAMILY  LIFE 
Those  who  personally  remember 
President  Smith  can  recall  that  one 
of  the  outstanding  characteristics  of 
his  life  was  the  love  he  manifested 
for  his  family.  He  was  never  too 
busy  to  be  of  assistance  to  a  little 
child,  or  to  counsel  someone  con- 
cerning home  and  family  life.  He 
believed  that  the  home  was  the  best 
possible  place  for  the  training  of 
children  and  stressed  the  responsibil- 
ity of  parents  to  win  the  love,  admi- 
ration, and  confidence  of  their  chil- 
dren. His  writings  reveal  that  he 
considered  his  wives  and  children  as 
his  most  worthwhile  possessions,  and 
felt  his  eternal  happiness  would  be 
dependent  upon  their  faithfulness 
to  the  Gospel. 
He  was  confident  that  marriage 
was  a  God-ordained  and  God-sanc- 
tioned institution,  not  something 
that  man  or  society  had  created.  The 
marriage  relation  was,  he  taught,  one 
of  holiness— a  relation  into  which 
every  capable  soul  was  expected  to 
enter.  The  obligation  of  bringing 
children  into  the  world  was  a  re- 
sponsibility that  God  placed  on  eve- 
ry mortal.  He  was  firm  in  his  view 
that  no  man  should  rule  his  wife 
or  children  by  force  or  tyranny. 
Love  was  to  be  the  only  power  used 
for  control.  Throughout  his  long 
and  active  life,  he  constantly  placed 
his  obligation  toward  his  families  as 
paramount,  and  he  left  behind  a 
numerous  posterity  which  manifests 
that  he  practiced  within  his  own 
family  the  principles  of  kindness, 
love  and  consideration  which  he  so 
often  preached  in  public. 
THE  ETERNITY  OF  FAMILY 
RELATIONSHIPS 
Not  only  did  President  Smith 
hold  lofty  conceptions  of  the  place 
of  family  life  in  society  and  the 
Church,  but  he  also  was  firm  in  his 
conviction  that  family  relationships 
should  have  eternal  existence.  He 
had  the  prophetic  ability  of  gaining 
a  long-range  view  of  the  eternities

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
57 
and  saw  that  earth  life  was  but  a 
temporary  halting  place  in  the  on- 
ward march  of  personal  existence. 
In  answer  to  the  query,  ''Why  did 
God  teach  us  the  eternal  union  of 
man  and  wife?"  he  answered:  "Be- 
cause God  knew  that  we  were  .  .  . 
to  remain  His  children  forever  and 
ever,  and  that  we  are  just  as  truly 
individuals,  and  that  our  individual- 
ity was  as  identical  as  that  of  the 
Son  of  God,  and  would  therefore 
continue,  worlds  without  end,  so 
that  the  man  receiving  his  wife  by 
the  power  of  God,  for  time  and  for 
all  eternity,  would  have  the  right  to 
claim  her  and  she  to  claim  her  hus- 
band in  the  world  to  come.  Neither 
would  be  changed,  except  from  mor- 
tality to  immortality;  neither  would 
be  other  than  himself  or  herself,  but 
they  will  have  their  identity  in  the 
world  to  come  precisely  as  they  ex- 
ercise their  individuality  and  enjoy 
their  identity  here." 
This  concept  influenced  his  teach- 
ing. He  taught  that  the  ultimate 
happiness  of  immortality  would  de- 
pend upon  the  success  with  which 
a  family  was  able  to  train  its  mem- 
bers to  obey  the  laws  of  God  and 
thus  gain  salvation.  This  made  him 
solicitous  of  the  welfare  of  all  those 
connected  with  him.  In  respect  to 
this,  he  said,  ''Nobody  has  more  in- 
terest in  the  welfare  of  my  own  chil- 
dren than  I  have.  I  cannot  be  sat- 
isfied without  them.  They  are 
part  of  me.  They  are  mine.  God 
has  given  them  to  me,  and  I  want 
them  to  be  humble  and  submissive 
to  the  requirements  of  the  Gospel. 
I  want  them  to  be  .  .  .  worthy  of  the 
distinction  that  the  Lord  has  given 
them  in  being  numbered  among  his 
covenant  people  ....*' 
It  is  interesting  to  read  his  state- 
ments concerning  the  motives  that 
prompted  him  in  selecting  and  dedi- 
cating the  sites  for  the  temples  in 
Hawaii  and  Canada.  It  is  true,  of 
course,  that  he  was  thinking  of  sal- 
vation for  the  dead  as  part  of  the 
augmented  temple  program.  How- 
ever, he  publicly  said  that  for  many 
it  had  been  impossible  to  make  the 
long  and  expensive  journey  to  one 
of  the  Utah  temples  in  order  to  be 
properly  married.  These  new  tem- 
ples—to be  followed  by  others,  to 
serve  remote  sections  of  the  Church 
population  —  would  make  temple 
marriages,  the  only  valid  form  of 
marriage  in  God's  sight,  more  readily 
available  for  great  numbers  of  the 
young  people. 
HIS  VISION  OF  THE 
REDEMPTION  OF  THE  DEAD 
On  October  3,  1918,  shortly  be- 
fore his  death.  President  Smith  re- 
ceived a  vision  in  regard  to  the  meth- 
od of  missionary  work  among  the 
disembodied  spirits.  This  vision  in- 
dicates that  he  had  long  pondered 
the  problems  connected  with  mak- 
ing family  ties  complete  in  the  patri- 
archal lineages.  Shortly  before  he 
closed  his  mortal  career,  the  Lord 
granted  him  this  vision  to  enlighten 
the  world  concerning  this  process. 
It  was  submitted  to  and  approved  by 
his  counselors,  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve,  and  the  Presiding  Patriarch, 
on  October  31,  1918. 
THE  MARKS  OF  A  TRUE 
SERVANT  OF  GOD 
For  many  years.  President  Smith 
was  the  target  for  some  of  the  vilest 
newspaper  and  periodical  attacks  to 
which  any  person  has  been  subject- 
ed. In  addition,  his  family  life  was 
openly  ridiculed,  and  he  was  person