(Continued from page 38) "No, you don't. I'll get supper. You lie down and rest. I'll put the spuds on, then go out and chore, and fix the rest when I come back in. Don't you worry.
Your old man's a good cook." "Oh, Harry, you're so good. I'll never do another thing without asking you," said Helen tremulously, as she went toward the bedroom. If Harry believed her, he didn't say so. Instead, he covered her gently with a shawl, for the evening air had grown chilly. As Helen lay there, her hands pressing her handkerchief over her aching eyes, she murmured wearily, "Oh, well, any day can end!" Out in the kitchen, Harry was attempting to rebuild the fire. He swore softly, for the grate was filled with damp orange rinds. "Seems like women just can't learn," he muttered to himself. Popularity (Continued from page 32) of popularity. A sort of excitement madness characterizes the usually sociallyimportant group, for they do not think.
Everyone wants to be popular. But there are many kinds and grades of popularity available on the present social market.
Some take less down payment, but are ruinously expensive in the end.
Others require a heavy investment of the best there is in you, but pay larger and choicer dividends as friendships grow. It's all in the Business of Living. How successful your business is depends far more upon your self-management, your social skills, and a sense of community with your fellows than upon your luck, or looks, or lucre. "Non-raters, let's stop mooning and moaning, envying and nursing secret sorrows, trying to be dauntless lone wolves yet paying too heavily for it. "Raters, let's stop blind tushing and gushing, cliquing and 'cutting,' being dogs in a social manger that deal out pitifully cheap rations. In this popularity business, there's a life-sized social experiment to set up and carry through."
Quotations used by permission of Willet, Clark and Company, Chicago, Illinois. 
 ?JANUARY, 1941
Give Me Melodies e| Ivy H. Woolley GIVE me a melody From out the languid skies; Give me a melody That sings through sparkling eyes, A melody that stirs From cool, damp lips of spring. Give me a melody And let me learn to sing. Give me the melody That rippling water knows, The secret melody That clings to fainting snows; Give me a melody, A song as undefiled As waxen tint that glows Upon a sleeping child. Give me the melody That floats from soaring wings; A quiet melody The hidden zephyr sings; Give me the melody A rose tree breathes at morn When from her leafy breast, The scented buds are born. Give me the song of love A mother softly sings, As through her tasks she works At common homey things. Give me the song of hope As sung by pioneers, While courage filled their hearts Assuaging want and fears. Oh, give me melodies, A song for everything; My praise to God on high Forever let me sing. Happy New Year! IT'S an old, old greeting, and it's often used too causally. A New Year gives proper cause for reflection; reflection, not alone upon the failures and successes of the past, but also upon the strength or the weakness of the armour with which each of us girds himself for the battle of the New Year. It is as true as it is trite to say that the peoples of the world look forward to the New Year with hope, commingled with fear and foreboding. It is equally true, and perhaps equally trite, to observe that nothing that happened during 1940 disproved what mankind has learned to look upon as truth, namely, that justice and fair-dealing are the best weapons with which to meet whatever challenge the future holds. And so, with full assurance that our wish has every likelihood of fulfillment, we say will, THE DESERET.. NEWs PRESS PIONEER PRINTERS AND: BINDERS OF THE WEST ?99
Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah The Cover LIBERTY ENLIGHTENING THE WORLD or THE STATUE OF LIBERTY as itis known today was given by the people of France to the United States to commemorate the hundredth anniversary of American independence. The funds for the statue were raised by popular subscription in France. The Statue was executed by Frederic A. Bartholdi, and is the largest one in the world. The work was intended to symbolize the historic friendship between the two republics and to typify the idea of freedom and brotherhood which underlies a republican form of government. Only a few people are aware of the poetic inscription inside the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty written by Emma Lazarus: "Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore Send these, the homeless, the tempest-tost, To me. I lift my lamp beside the golden door." The statue stands on Bedloe Island, also known as Liberty Island, in New York Harbor.
Index.