Greetings to Our devoted and faithful co-workers—Relief Society women throughout the Church—we extend, in behalf of the General Board, love, greetings and sincere good wishes for a peaceful and blessed New Year. We are deeply grateful for the untiring efforts you have put forth during the past year in the great Relief Society cause—for the splendid growth and progress which have come to the organization as a result of your efforts, and for the faithful service you have rendered so unselfishly to your fellowmen in connection with, and as a part of, the Church welfare program. We have grown not only in numbers, but in strength and efficiency, and in spirituality. 'The good you have done to others has been a blessing to them, and because of this work your own lives, as well as the lives of all others concerned, have been enriched spiritually. And brought in closer touch with our Heavenly Father. We are sure you have felt in your ministrations that "It is more blessed to give than to receive." We are grateful to our Father in Heaven for mercy and for His many blessings to us, and, above all else, we are grateful for the Gospel which has been restored in these latter days and through which we receive cur greatest comfort and solace. We realize that your year of service has been marked with real work and toil, but we are sure that it has been blessed by the lessons learned, the development received, and by the loving friendships and comradeships which have been formed and which come while working unitedly in a noble and righteous cause. 'These close personal and spiritual associations which are outstanding features of Relief Society work are no less important than other things acquired and accomplished.
While we rejoice in our work and achievements and in our many blessings, our hearts are heavy and sad at this sacred season because of the spirit of strife and bitterness and hate that is abroad in the world, and because of the suffering and sorrow of thousands of innocent, Christ-loving men, women and children who, through no fault of their own but through the selfishness and greed and sinfulness of others, are victims of this tragic situation. Let us keep these unfortunate children of our Heavenly Father in mind, let us appeal to Him daily for their deliverance, and for the peace of the world, which Christ came so many years ago to bring. And now, dear sisters, let us begin the New Year with a desire in our hearts for guidance and inspiration, for faith and courage; let us seek the fellowship of our Heavenly Father and live according to His teachings, that the fount of His spirit will be open to us. Let us treasure our testimonies and hold fast to our convictions and live so that we can claim the blessings which are promised to those who are faithful. May we realize that "the world passeth away and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever." Amy Brown Lyman Marcia K. Howells Vera White Pohlman Donna D. Sorensen General Secretary-Treasurer _ General Presidency RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL PRESIDENCY AND GENERAL SECRETARY-TREASURER Front row: Donna D. Sorensen, second counselor; Amy Brown Lyman, president Back row: Vera W. Pohlman, secretary-treasurer; Marcia K. Howells, first counselor The Relief Society Magazine 
Vol. XXVIII JANUARY, 1941 No. 1