[Vol28 | January 1941 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Definition Of a Woolsey]
DEFINITION  OF  A  WORD 
Lael  Woolsey 
A  word  is  a  sound 
By  which  silence  is  broken, 
A  symbol  said,  causing 
A  thought  to  be  spoken; 
A  message  of  danger 
Or  faith  ever  healing, 
A  vow  and  a  promise 
Eternally  sealing. 
A  strange  thing,  a  word  .  .  . 
Like  a  small,  bright  jewel  hung 
In  the  dark  robe  of  stillness, 
A  song  not  quite  sung.

Some  Literary  Friends 
Florence  Ivins  Hyde 
No.  VI 
^Popularity 
A  
BOOK  which  I  beHeve  will  selves  satisfactorily  to  the  groups  we 
interest    every    growing  boy  feel  are  socially  worthwhile/'  and 
and  girl  has  been  written  by  she  attempts  to  show  how  we  may 
Regina    Westcott   Wieman    under  adjust  ourselves  to  group  life  in  the 
the     intriguing     title,     Popularity,  "presence  of  powerful  and  often  ob- 
Whether  we  are  young  or  old,  this  jectionable  social  patterns."       She 
word  attracts  us,  for  we  all  seem  to  discusses  the  things  we  do  to  make 
have  an  innate  desire  to  be  popular,  ourselves    unpopular,    the    defense 
Particularly  is  this  true    of    young  mechanisms  we  use,  the  types  and 
people  during  high  school  and  col-  qualities  of  popularity,  the  things  we 
lege  days.    Most  of  them  would  ra-  must  do  to  become  popular,  and 
ther  be  called  "popular''  than  any-  finally  the  way  out  when  the  groups 
thing  else  that  might  be    said    of  we  live  among  do  not  measure  up 
them.     So  important  has  it  come  to  our  ideals. 
to  be  that  the  business  of  charm  All  of  us,  perhaps  unconsciously, 
has  become  a  profession.  Advertis-  do  things  that  make  us  unpopular, 
ers  appeal  to  this  desire  to  be  popu-  Some  of  the  unpopular  types  Mrs. 
lar  by  putting  out  wares  that  are  Wieman  describes  are:  the  high-
