[Vol28 | January 1941 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Social ServiceHome Renting]
Social Service EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE ~ Family Relationships Lesson 6
Home Owning or Home Renting (Tuesday, April 22, 1941) HE problem of shelter is one of those problems with which every person, young or old, married or single, is confronted.
Even though the person may not be responsible for providing his own shelter, he is concerned with that which is provided for him. The great majority of people, however, do not consider the problem seriously until they begin to plan for marriage, at which time, to most young people of today, it becomes an almost insurmountable obstacle.: Probably every landlord who has apartments for rent has had the experience of facing the disappointed, discouraged expression on the faces of young couples who, after they have inspected the apartment, learn that the amount of rent asked is far beyond what their budget will allow for shelter, even after every possible economy has been figured in. If already married, the young couple may choose between taking an apartment quite different from the cozy, cheery one they had pictured in their minds or they may devise means whereby they can increase their income.
About the only way this can be achieved in the immediate future is for the wife to get a job. Then, with the two incomes, they can manage to secure the standard of housing of which they had dreamed ?but what a price they pay. The great majority of young people, even before they are married, cherish the dream of someday owning their own home, and, sooner or later, the moment arrives when they must decide whether they shall build or buy a home for themselves or continue to live in rented quarters. And we may add that all too many couples make their decision on the basis of an insufficient knowledge of the facts upon which such an important decision should be determined. It shall not be the purpose in this discussion to suggest that any particular family, or families in general, should rent or should own their own shelter, but rather to emphasize the fact that each case must be decided according to the specific circumstances surrounding the particular family, and to point out some of the major advantages and disadvantages with which the home owner and the renter are faced, also to present a few basic points that should be considered in selecting shelter, whether owned or rented. In discussing family housing, Howard E.
Bigelow lists the following arguments as those most frequently presented in favor of renting: It costs less to rent than to own. For the same expenditure, a family can maintain a higher shelter standard by renting than by owning. The family renting its home pays for shelter as it goes. By investing in sound securities the amount it would spend if it bought a home, it can frequently secure a larger return upon its investment. The renting family is in no danger from loss of capital through decline in property values. If rents decline, the renter can benefit from reductions in shelter costs. The renter's chief obligation is the payment of a periodic sum. The renting family has no responsibility for the management of the property in which it lives. If it rents an apartment, it may have no responsibility for providing heat, utilities, or for assuming any other operating expenses. The renter is free to move at any time when conditions become unsatisfactory, or when better housing is available elsewhere. The renter can, therefore, adjust more easily to changing shelter needs. If his income is radically reduced, he can move to less expensive quarters to bring his shelter expense into line with his income. He is not faced with fixed charges for maintaining his home. If his income increases, he can move to a better neighborhood. The renter can bargain better than can the home owner in selling his services to his employer. He can move to another town if necessary in order to take advantage of promotions. In case he loses his job, he is not tied to the community in which he lives by his investment in his home. The same author says, "The usual arguments in favor of home ownership run somewhat as follows: It costs less to own than to rent.
Home ownership reduces shelter costs to a definitely known figure. The family that owns its home is not subject to rent increases. A family can reduce shelter costs by making its own repairs.
Home ownership induces _ thrift, especially if the home is purchased on the installment plan. A home is a safe investment for a family. The family may profit from increases in property values. A family that owns its own home finds it easier to establish its credit.
Home ownership is a means of establishing financial independence.
Home ownership makes the family independent of control by a landlord.
There are no restrictions upon children.
There are no limits to the size of the family.
There are no restrictions upon pets. The family is free to make such alterations and improvements in its home as it pleases. The family can secure healthful exercise from work around the home. A neighborhood of owned homes is usually better kept up than is a neighborhood made up largely of rental property.
Home ownership provides security for the family. It assures the members of the family of a home in their old age. It guarantees them a place to live during periods of unemployment. It provides them with a permanent environment..
Home ownership makes it unnecessary for the family to be adjusting continually to new conditions.
Home ownership in many cases increases the family's social prestige and strengthens its position in the community.
Home owners are considered to be permanently identified with the community.
They are expected to assume more civic responsibility.
Their voice has more weight in community affairs. It is of interest to note that both lists of arguments begin with the declaration that it costs less. People, generally, are agreed that it costs more to own than to rent. The owner who claims that it costs less usually fails to figure in the interest on his investment, the depreciation and upkeep and possibly some other items of expense, 

 ?JANUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT In deciding the value of home ownership, it must not be placed on an economic basis alone, because the real values of home ownership fall largely into the non-material category.
Long before one hundred and eight years ago when some nostalgic American composed the words of "Home Sweet Home," the great mass of the people of our country had the ambition and a burning desire to own their homes. To live in the home one owns is a sentiment deep in the heart of the American. Our recent president, Herbert Hoover, made the following statement in the foreword of How to Own Your Home: "Maintaining a high percentage of individual home owners is one of the searching tests that now challenge the people of the United States. The present large proportion of families that own_ their homes is both the foundation of a sound economic and social system and a guarantee that our society will continue to develop rationally as changing conditions demand. "A family that owns its home takes pride in it, maintains it better, gets more pleasure out of it, and has a more wholesome, healthful, and happy atmosphere in which to bring up children. 'The home owner has a constructive aim in life. He works harder outside his home; he spends his leisure more profitably; he and his family live a finer life and enjoy more of the comforts and cultivating influences of our modern civilization. A husband and wife who own their home are more apt to save.
They have an interest in the advancement of a social system that permits the individual to store up the fruits of his labor. As direct 69 taxpayers, they take a more active part in local government.
Above all, the love of home is one of the finest instincts and the greatest of inspirations of our people."
Home ownership has virtually been accepted as a doctrine of our Church. The Latter-day Saint people have always been admonished by their leaders to strive to own their own homes and to keep them free from mortgages. The person paying for a home on the installment plan, the method most people must use, or the person who has a mortgage on his home, does not own his home?he has only an equity in it to the amount of that portion of the valuation which is free from debt. As has previously been stated, every couple must decide for themselves whether or not it would be advisable for them to buy a home. The primary consideration is well stated by Stuart Chase, who says, "A lot of us feel better if we own, and that feeling demands respectful consideration. Let us try, however, to detach the desire from mere possession and transfer it to the sense of living.
Will this projected house reduce our worries, reduce our risks, reduce our headaches, and make a peaceful, homelike atmosphere really possible?. If the chances look good, buy. If they do not look good, rent.
What one seeks, after all, is not a parchment, but peace." It is unwise for any family to decide offhand to change from the status of a renter to an owner, or to decide such questions as to where to buy or what kind of a house to buy.
These are questions worthy of painstaking investigation and careful thought based on the advice and in- formation of trained people in various fields. The many points for decision should constitute the subject for discussion during numerous sessions of the family council.
Some of the most important questions upon which expert advice should be secured are: Tenure of the breadwinner in his job, so far as can be known. The best possible method of financing such a venture. For most home owners, the purchase of a home represents the largest single outlay he will make during his lifetime. All aspects of the location?physical and social. The type of house to build. If finances are not sufficient to build an adequately large house now, provision should be made for adding additional rooms. The size of house desirable while the children are growing may be entirely too large after the children are married. The amount of money that the particular family should invest ina house. The total costs of ownership are usually calculated at approximately 10% to 12.5% of the investment. On this basis a family should not invest in a home more than from two to two and one-half times their annual income. Hence, on an annual income of $2500 the home should not cost more than from $5000 to $6250.
Selection of architect, if one is to be used, and also a reliable contractor. In contemplating all matters, a long-time point of view should be maintained, since a well-built house serves on an average of fifty years. The effect of the purchase of a home on the future life of the family. It should be remembered that the advantages and disadvantages of home owning as well as the advantages and disadvantages of renting may, to a great extent, be modified either positively or negatively by the homemaking attitudes of the family. The purchase of a home may.
Bring unhappiness and resentment into the family or it may bring peace and contentment.
Always the aim.
Should be to make of home a place of refuge for the family.
Questions and Problems 1.
Make a list of the physical factors to be considered in the selection of a home. 2.
Make a list of the social factors to be considered in the selection of a home. 3.
Give examples to prove each one of the advantages suggested by ex-President Hoover in regard to owning one's home. 4.
Compare the effects of renting and owning a home as they relate to the rearing of children. 5- Make a list of the different types of specialists who should be consulted in preparation for building or buying a home. References Family Finance, Howard E. Biglow, Chapter 10. "Home Ownership, Income and Types of Dwellings," Report of the President's Conference on Home Building and Home Ownership, Appendix 1, 2, 3 "To Own or To Rent," House Beautiful, August, 1937. "Our Five Year Plan," American Home, September, 1938. "The Case Against Home Ownership," Readers Digest, June, 1938. TRIAD 
 ?JANUARY, 1941
Mission LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired) Lesson XVI The New Home in the Mountains (Tuesday, April 15, 1941) S you may remember, the pioneer company entered the Salt Lake Valley in July, 1847. All told, they numbered one hundred and sixty-eight persons, for Amasa Lyman had brought three men with him from Pueblo on the Monday following the entrance of the pioneers.
After the departure of about half of the pioneer men to return for their families, there still remained in the Valley about two hundred men and women. 'This is to be accounted for by the fact that meantime more than a hundred Battalion men had arrived from Pueblo. On June 19 of this year, there had left the Missouri River a company of about eighteen hundred men, women, and children.
They had between six and seven hundred covered wagons. 'This group was under the direction of the Apostles Parley P.
Pratt and John Taylor. On the South Pass Plain, they met the returning pioneers under the leadership of Brigham Young and _ the other seven Apostles.
They entered the Salt Lake Valley some time in October. In the meantime some Mormon Battalion men, who had been discharged on the Coast, arrived in the Valley.
During the winter of 1847-48, there were in the new mountain home between two thousand and twenty-one hundred persons. One can easily imagine how critical was their situation that winter.
Here they were, eleven hundred miles from their people on the Missouri, seven hundred miles from what is now Los Angeles, and eight hundred miles from what is now San Francisco. In this vast region, silent as a great forest, were only wild animals, wilder Indians, and a few fur traders and trappers. As the people did not know much about the natives, except what they had heard and read about them, they were more or less fearful. To make matters worse, however, they did not have quite enough food to last them till the harvest the next fall. 'They would, therefore, have to be careful on more than one account. Fortunately, that first winter in the Valley was what is called an open winter. 'That is, there was almost no snow and very little frost. The men were able to plow during the months of December and January, and were ready for seed planting long before spring came. 'They had measured off the Big Field, a five-acre patch of ground, and fenced it. 'This was cultivated in common ?plowed, harrowed, planted, and watered. Already, of course, a fort had been built to protect the people from Indians, and within this enclosure were log houses, with earth floors and earth roofs.
Here all the settlers lived till they could erect better houses on land outside the fort. In this fort, too, they danced, they sang songs and hymns, they held religious services, and here babies were born. ONE of the first things these people did was to establish a school and a government. The government, of course, was religious. 'The district was made into a stake. John Smith, Charles C. Rich, and John Young were the presidency. 'They had been appointed by the Apostles at the time when the two companies met at South Pass. As you may remember, there were ten Apostles there?eight going back to the Missouri and two coming on to the Valley. Gradually, this government became partly political, so as-to give more power to the officers.
Some of the rules, made by a committee and sustained by the people, are interesting.
Every able-bodied man was compelled to work to sustain his family, so that they would not be a burden on the community. If he would not work, he was declared a "vagrant," and what property he had was administered in the interest of his family.
Certain crimes were forbidden, on pain of the lash?"not exceeding thirty-nine lashes on the bare back."
These rules, it seems, were not broken by anyone, but the punishment stood ready as a threat to the wrong-doer. Of course, there were judges, before whom any offenders were to be tried. As for the school, that was held in a tent till a better place could be built. The pupils sat around on logs, they used burnt sticks for pencils, and they read from the Bible and the Book of Mormon. The Saints felt that it was necessary for everyone to be able to read. EFORE the crops could be matured, the little colony ran out of food.
They had to live partly on roots, berries, milk, and whatever else they could find.
During the - winter, some of the men had gone to the Coast to see whether they might buy some cattle.
They bought some, to be sure, on credit, but on the way home some of the animals were lost, others died, and still others were stolen by Indians. In spite of all the settlers could purchase, their food supplies gradually gave out. In the spring most of the families moved out of the fort. It had never been comfortable. It furnished but cramped quarters at best. A whole family had to live in one room, and when it rained the roof leaked. It was not a pleasant experience to have thin mud trickling down on everything. And so, as soon as they could safely do so, they went out on the land, where they could have more room and fewer discomforts.
When the corn, peas, beans, and cucumbers pushed their green stalks through the ground, a frost came and turned them all black.
When the wheat was nearly ripe, crickets swarmed down from the canyons and began to devour the grain. The story of how the crops were saved is one of the most inspiring stories that the West has produced. HE cricket is described in the records of the period as a heavy, clumsy, hopping insect, about the size of a large man's thumb. It has a ravenous appetite. It would crawl 

 ?JANUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT up a luscious stem of wheat, nip off the head neatly, then follow it to the ground as it fell, and feed until it was satisfied. If there had been only a few of these crickets, food could be spared for them. But there were more than a few.
