[Vol7 | August 1920 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Eulogy to Emmeline B. Wells O. F. Ursenbach]

Emmeline B. Wells as her proxy, is herself of Norwegian extraction. Her mother was born in Norway and Mrs. Dusenberry will therefore find very much of personal interest in her visit to her mother's native country. The meeting in Christiania will consider public health service, educational advancement, citizenship, juvenile courts, better films, etc., etc., in their relation to international, as well as national, needs. Mrs. Dusenberry is especially qualified to assist in these deliberations on all questions of educational interest and modern social service methods. Her excellent reasoning power, her quick perceptions and her trained intellect will add force to her oratory, while the truths she will be able to present will inform her remarks and inspire her utterances. She goes with the congratulations of the General Board and the blessings and good wishes of the members of this society. Her only daughter, Margaret, who is an accomplished musician, will accompany her mother on this trip. Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, the business manager of our "Magazine" and a prominent and popular member of the conservation work, done during the war, and now carried forward in the Civic Center, has been singularly honored in a national way. She was appointed by the national Republican committee, under Chairman Will H. Hays, on January 4, 1920, to act as a member of the national council of one hundred. On January 14, she was invited by the National Republican Committee to represent the Utah Republican women in a regional conference, held at Denver, January 14, 1920. Such a favorable impression was made that she was again invited to speak in Denver at the Lincoln Club, February 9, 1920. 
 She was elected as a delegate at large in our state convention, held May 3, 1920, and was chosen as the first full delegate, of her sex, from Utah, to attend the national convention in Chicago in May. Later she was appointed as one of the assistant secretaries of the national convention and sat upon the platform with the general officers of the convention. She has been appointed as an executive national committee woman for Utah, through both the presidential Republican nominee. Governor Harding, and National Chairman Will Hays. An even greater honor was shown in placing her upon the executive committee of the committee of the whole. On July 1, she received a telegram appointing her on the notification committee to go to Marion, Ohio, the home town of Governor Harding, to formally notify him of his national appointment, July 22, 1920. While in the Chicago convention she was asked to speak at the Philadelphia Club, at the Blackstone Hotel, as the guest of the Woman's Cycle and Saddle Club. She was the guest of honor at the Arts Club in the Arts Building while at Chicago. Prior to these appointments she served as state chairman of the women of Utah for several years. The following extract from the conservative Democratic paper, the "New York Sun," proves the impression made by Mrs. Hyde and her associates in the Republican convention: "To those who have watched the evolution of women in public life without prejudice the excellent impression made on all observers by the women at the Republican convention does not come as a surprise. There were some members of that convention, however, who have not been unprejudiced, and the tributes the women won from them are worth recording. "A most interesting event occurred in the private committee meeting held of all of the women delegates to the convention, on arriving in Chicago, presided over by Mary Garret Hays. Advanced measures were proposed and resolutions brought forward during this meeting. Suddenly Mrs. Hyde was made the subject of an attack by Mrs. Emma Bush, in connection with the resolution brought forward by this delegate denouncing "Mormonism," Senator Smoot, etc., etc., and calling for an order in the convention which would prevent any "Mormon" from taking part therein. Miss Hay at once called upon Mrs. Hyde to answer this charge, expressing her own admiration at the same time for "Mormon" women and for Mrs. Hyde in particular. Instantly the delegate from Michigan was on her feet and sharply asked Mrs. Hyde a GUIDE LESSONS AND SUGGESTIONS 487 question: "Do you believe in polygamy?" she said. "Yes, I most certainly do," replied Mrs. Hyde. There was a hubbub followed which Miss Hay again quieted. Mrs. Bush repeated her question and Mrs. Hyde repeated her reply, frankly and without reservations except the explanation that the principle is not practiced today nor has been since the issuance of the manifesto, in 1893. Mrs. Hyde countered by explaining that she supposed the gathering was a political one and not a religious one and that she did not feel called upon to inquire if any of the women believed in the signs and crosses of the Catholic faith, nor Christian Science, nor any other religion, but left every woman to worship as she pleased, feeling that a common ground for all good will be found in the principles of freedom upon which this government was founded. Mrs. Hyde's independent and frank reply won the instant admiration of all members present and she was showered with social attentions all the time she was in Chicago. "Mrs. Hyde is an intimate friend of Senator Smoot and wife and loyally devoted to the cause of Republicanism which she so ably represents." Utah women, indeed "Mormon" women, have also been greatly honored in the appointment of Mrs. Elizabeth H. Hayward, a year and a half ago, to act as National Democratic committee women from Utah. Mrs. Hayward has long been locally famous as a suffrage leader, legislator, and publicist. She was at the San Francisco convention with our well known professor, Alice Reynolds, and both were shown great attention and courtesy. Miss Reynolds made two seconding speeches from the floor of the convention. Indeed, both parties, now and always in Utah, have been just and liberal in their treatment of women, both as individuals and as a sex. We congratulate our famous representatives and ourselves in these recent developments.