[Vol7 | August 1920 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: An Unknown Heroine]

AN UNKNOWN HEROINE. We hear much about the power of continued effort and persistent labor, but few of us realize what can be accomplished by one human being when the will to do and the opportunity to accomplish is given. We are presenting to our readers this month the picture of one of the most retiring and least known heroines in this Church and kingdom. Few, indeed, know her or know of her and yet consider the work accomplished by this little woman, Mrs. Amanda Wessman. She is eighty-two years old and has made the following remarkable history: She was born, April 7, 1848, in Gothenburg, Sweden. She was a friend to all the missionaries, fed them when they were hungry, clothed them in their need, and ministered generously to their support, although very poor herself. She took care of the Church hall for seven years in her native city. She was baptized in February, 1878, but did not reach Utah until October 29, 1893. She is the mother of seven children, twenty-nine grand children, and nine great-grand children. And she has been a Relief Society teacher since 1898. This, however, is not uncommon history for the women of this people. Yet, when I tell you that this good woman began her temple work in March, 1898, and has been a temple worker in the Salt Lake temple for the last ten years — when I tell you, I say, that she has been baptized for eighty-four thousand six hundred and fifty women, you can guess at the great concourse of people who will meet her on the other side and greet her as their earthly savior and friend. Who 
 MRS. AMANDA WESSMAN. among the mighty ones may surpass her in that life to come? Who will greet thee, heroine of mine, When thou shalt reach that better shore? Thy loved ones — yes — my friends and thine, Ah, yes — but more — ten thousands more. For, in this span that we call life. Thou hast thy labor nobly done, As daughter, sister, mother, wife, Thy crown of glory long's been won. Yet not alone, these tender ties within But Will countless bind the souls to thy Master's from redeemed throne. sin Will bear aloft thy glory as their own. This veil of flesh not long shall hold thee bound. For years and time fleet fast away. The choiring angels wait the welcoming sound, That thou hast entered into perfect day.