[Vol31 | July 1944 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

SALT LAKE TABERNACLE CHOIR Woman?s Sphere Ramona W. Cannon With every great people the past is of incalculable inspiration to the living.
Stories of the prowess of ancestors have ever been repeated while young hearts kindled with admiration. Latter-day Saint history is unique; it has been open to misconception and ridicule. Our young should be steeped in Mormon traditions.
They should comprehend the faith and the ideals which governed the dramatic lives of their forbears.
Mothers can help to create such a condition with Mormon literature. We recommend The Story of the Mormon Pioneers by Mabel Harmer, a tale of the journey from Nauvoo to Salt Lake Valley; the Mormon Battalion, pioneer life; the handcart pioneers; Indian battles; pioneer schools; colonizing; and the Utah War; enriched and vivified by many quotations from original letters and journals. LADY WAVELL, addressing the Trained Nurses Association of India on its thirty-second anniversary, stated she thought she was correct in saying that quite recently there was only one trained nurse to over fifty thousand of the population. The reason appears to be that trained nurses are "regarded, paid and housed as menials," and therefore educated women will not undertake the profession (Indian Information, Feb. 1, 1944)- Page
368 MADAME ADRIENNE BUCK, M. A. (Sorbonne), fashion designer, artist, captain in the French Army Nursing Corps, and fashion contributor to Vogue and Good Housekeeping, fled Nazi-invaded Paris and now resides in Salt Lake City.
From reliable sources she receives underground news. The French women frequently play a more important part than the French men, she states, and believes that if the Nazis, as they have threatened, imprison all Frenchmen upon allied invasion, the women will still fight France's battle, co-operating with the Allies. One famous woman lawyer recently escaped to Switzerland.
Important dressmakers know underground customers and send information sewed in hems of dresses.
Mothers put notes in children's lunch baskets and underground workers find them?each student is assigned a certain place for his basket.
There are at least 150 underground newspapers; every press is moved each week.
French chic has not disappeared, though hats are made of blotting paper and braided cornhusks, and artichoke leaves are sewed together into beanies. As a substitute for gloves, hands are painted to match the color of one's gown.