[Vol31 | July 1944 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Field Program]

NOTES TO THE FIELD Activities for Busy Days 1. Community Singing a.
Rounds and fun songs b.
Church hymns (Along 'with these, a short history of the hymn could be given and discussed. See Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns, by George D. Pyper, and Mission Lessons, "Latter-day Saint Hymns," Relief Society Magazine, July 1941 through February 1942.) 2. Short Expositions by Relief Society Members (At a previous meeting women could be told to come Prepared to briefly Present these subjects. ) a. A travel incident A missionary experience c. A faith promoting incident d. A pioneer story e. An early life incident f. A fascinating hobby (Women could not only tell about their hobbies, but.
This could be enlarged upon, and hobbies could be exhibited. ) 3. Current Events (Someone could be delegated to introduce topics of current interest, and others could be given Opportunity to express themselves on the subject. ) 4.
Displays of Heirlooms or Art Work The owners could give interesting information about these. ) Activities for Less Busy, Quieter Days 1. Music Appreciation a.
Recordings of Operas or other choice musical selections (Where a record player can be obtained, many interesting programs can be arranged; for example, brief biographical sketches of the compos- Is OF singers might be given in connection with the music, or something interesting might be told about the composition itself. ) b.
Recordings of folk songs. (The history of folk songs might be presented as the records are played. ) 2.
Reviews of Articles from Relief Society Magazine (A variety of articles, including those " on "General Housekeeping Problems" 389 by Claire P.
Dorius which will appear in the Magazine for eight consecutive months beginning with this issue, might be reviewed and discussed. ) 3- Discussion of Miscellaneous Subjects a.
Vocabulary building b. Conversational English c.
Home gardening d.
Table decorations 4. Book Reviews (Books should be carefully selected.
This feature, while appropriate for occasional use, should not be overdone nor used to the exclusion of other types of activity. ) Because a sewing day is more or less informal, accompanied by a certain amount of confusion, activities conducted simultaneously with the sewing must also be rather informal. In arranging for people to.
Assist with these activities, it is suggested that consideration be given principally to the use of local talent.
There are many women in the local organizations who are gifted or who have some special skill who could provide profitable programs and at the same time further develop their own talents.
Those invited to participate should understand the nature of the day and should be willing to take part while the sewing Proceeds. However, when inviting people to participate, judgment must be used in the type of program selected for the day; ie., a lecturer should not be invited to speak when it is necessary to operate sewing machines; neither should a person be Invited to review a book at such a time. Home Topics' Class Leaders The General Board recognizes that the recommended changes in the work-meeting program will entail adjustments in class leaders, but 390 feels confident that these will be satisfactorily made and that the program will be carried forward successfully. The General Board thanks the many devoted home topics' class leaders for their splendid service to  the Society.