[Vol31 | July 1944 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Annual Report—1943]

OUTSTANDING accomplishments of the Relief Society during 1943 were: (1) intensified sewing service including fulfillment of an extensive quilt assignment for the Church Welfare Plan; (2) continuation of the special war services described in the 1942 annual report (Magazine for June-July 1943, pp. 414-418); and (3) the overwhelming response to the appeal for increased Magazine subscriptions (reported in detail in the issue for June 1944, pp 315-345). In addition, all usual Relief Society activities were carried forward with fairly satisfactory results, but not without evidence of the effect of wartime conditions and restrictions.

ONE HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY OF RELIEF SOCIETY SEWING SERVICE

1943 marked the hundredth anniversary of the beginning of sewing service in the Relief Society. It was in the Society's second year, in a meeting held October 14, 1843, that Phebe M. Wheeler, the assistant secretary, proposed "that a sewing society be appointed that garments and bed clothing may be made and given to such as are suffering cold and nakedness," and a time was appointed for this purpose. This service soon became a feature of regular Relief Society meetings and, when uniform courses of study were introduced in the Society in 1914, one meeting each month was reserved for sewing. At this meeting a variety of work is done according to the needs and the opportunities for service. Women are taught to sew and remodel for themselves; they have opportunity to sew on quilts and other articles for distribution to the needy; to earn funds for the Society by sewing on articles for sale at bazaars or to fill individual orders; to learn various other handicrafts; and to sew or knit for the Poor and other worthy purposes.

The quantity of articles made at Relief Society meetings throughout this century of sewing service must have been tremendous, but no Church-wide records were kept of this activity until 1942. This first year's report was, however, considered inadequate as many local Relief Societies did not at first keep account of the newly required data. Even so, this initial but incomplete report indicated this sewing service to be one of the major activities of the Society. A more complete report for 1943, and an intensified sewing program during this year to meet new assignments and new opportunities for service, have resulted in a new high record of accomplishment—a record which effectively and appropriately commemorates the hundredth anniversary of Relief Society sewing service.

According to the records kept, sewing service in the Relief Society was approximately twice as great in 1943 as in 1942. Completed articles numbered 244,636—nearly a quarter of a million—as compared with 174,561—nearly a quarter less—completed the previous year. Nearly 370 three-quarters million hours (709,494) were given to this service—almost twice the sewing time reported for 1942. This tremendous service was given by an average of 32,892 women per month—an increase over 1942 of only 4,187 women or 15 per cent, as compared with the increase of 109 per cent in number of articles completed and of 86 per cent in number of sewing hours. The average number of women participating in the Society's sewing service corresponds closely with, but slightly exceeds, the average number of women in attendance at Relief Society meetings. Nevertheless, this group of sewing women represents less than one-third of the total membership of the Society, and it would seem that a larger percentage might be brought into the sewing program, even though some of the members are unavailable for this service because of war work or other employment.

Suggestions for emphasizing, and extending the Society's sewing program throughout the Church, and for enlisting the interest and participation of more women in the work meeting through promotion of sewing skills, appear on pages 387-9 of this issue of the Magazine.

Relief Society's Greatest Quilt-Making Year

Quilts constituted the largest group of classified articles in the 1943 reports. Although quilt-making has been traditional in the Relief Society for a hundred years, 1943 was doubtless the greatest quilt-making year in the history of the Society for, in addition to the usual number of quilts made for the needy, and for bazaars or to the order of individuals, the Society: (1) undertook an extensive quilt assignment to supply bishops' storehouses under the Church Welfare Plan; (2) made quilts to supply the 12 quilts or blankets specified as part of the ward first-aid kits recommended for all wards in war-risk areas; and (3) made a final check of bedding facilities of families in the wards, conducting help-one-another quilting projects both for families able to supply their own material and others.

Quilts made during 1943 for all purposes numbered 23,114—an increase of 10,080 or 77 per cent over the 13,034 recorded during 1942. The Church Welfare quilt assignment was the first uniform sewing assignment made to the Relief Societies of all the stakes of the Church since inception of the Church Welfare Plan in 1936. This assignment was in the ratio of one quilt to every one hundred Church members in the stakes, and aggregated 4,296 quilts; it was more than filled within the year, for 4,488 warm, well-made quilts, many of them of fine design and lovely coloring, were turned into bishops' storehouses for subsequent distribution to the needy. Not only did the Relief Society make these several thousand quilts but, upon authorization by the General Board, purchased the required material to the extent of several thousand dollars from Relief Society funds.

Other Church Welfare Service

Many stakes also received Church Welfare assignments for production of clothing, and some others and a few missions with self-initiated projects also made clothing for this purpose. Altogether, including the quilts, a total of 19,570 articles was reported by Relief Societies as made and turned into bishops' storehouses during the year.

Inasmuch as many of these articles were quilts requiring a considerable amount of time, the extent of sewing service for this program cannot be measured entirely in terms of articles completed. No separate count was kept of hours spent on Church Welfare sewing in Relief Society meetings.

In addition to Church Welfare sewing service at Relief Society meetings, Relief Society women responded to calls for volunteer service on other Church Welfare projects, principally food canning and drying, and sewing requiring special equipment, conducted largely at work centers in connection with stake or regional bishops' storehouses. According to Relief Society records, members of the Society gave 287,810 hours' service on such projects, of which 33,095 hours or 11 per cent were by women whose families were receiving aid, and 254,715 hours or 89 per cent represented volunteer service. The extent of service by women receiving aid reportedly decreased by 15 per cent from 1942, doubtless because fewer families were in need, but there was an increase of 49 per cent in the amount of time given by Relief Society women who were not receiving assistance.

Relief Society women also responded eagerly to the advice of the General Authorities of the Church to assist in the raising and conservation of food for their families, and took advantage of the group canning privileges offered at Church Welfare canning centers. Indications are that a tremendous quantity of food was produced and conserved for home use by women throughout the Church.

Sewing Other Than Quilts

In addition to the 23,114 quilts made during 1943, children's clothing to the number of 18,224 pieces constituted the next largest classified group of articles completed in Relief Society work meetings, followed by 14,724 pieces of men's clothing, 13,436 pieces of women's clothing, 4,607 bedding items other than quilts, and 170,531 miscellaneous articles.

These miscellaneous articles—three times the number reported in 1942—reflect the extension of services by the Relief Society to meet new needs in many localities, as a result of a wartime labor shortage, such as volunteer sewing service for hospitals and recreation centers at military camps, and paid sewing service in response to appeals from both public agencies and private concerns unable to procure the service through the usual commercial channels. For example, the Relief Societies of Salt Lake City made approximately 6,000 articles for the Latter-day Saint Hospital there—44 different kinds, such as drawsheets, basin bags, towels, ether coats, bedpan covers, breast binders, doctors' caps, infants' supplies, et cetera—and, in addition, prepared from newspapers thousands of bedside bags and rectangles for sterilized cotton. They also made dozens of drapes for soldiers' club rooms from material supplied by the Red Cross, and did paid sewing for the State Board of Health and for a commercial company with an emergency war order. Similar services have been given by Relief Societies in other localities.

One sewing project of special importance was the contribution, during 1943, of 802 articles of temple clothing to the new Idaho Falls Temple by the Relief Societies of the fourteen stakes in the vicinity of this temple. The assignment, made through the General Board, was for 548 articles, but 254 additional pieces were contributed.

The 244,636 articles completed by Relief Societies during 1943 are distributed in the table on page 381, both as to kind and purpose for which made. In addition to the 19,570 articles already mentioned as completed for the Church Welfare program, 52,384 articles (80 per cent more than in 1942) were made for Relief Society purposes; that is, for charitable purposes, ward first-aid kits, for sale at bazaars, and custom sewing for pay in order to increase Relief Society funds; 49,727 articles were made for the Red Cross—not counting extensive service by Relief Society women at Red Cross centers—(11,346 or 30 per cent more than in 1942); and 122,955 articles were made for all other purposes—four times as many as in 1942. Doubtless many of these articles should have been classified as for the three major purposes for which the Society sews—for the Society itself, for Church Welfare, and for the Red Cross—but nevertheless, increased sewing during the year for other worthy causes has added to this pool of articles made for a variety of unspecified purposes, and includes the sewing service extended to various hospitals.

OTHER WAR SERVICES

As already indicated, war services described in the 1942 annual report were continued during 1943, in addition to the Red Cross and other special sewing incident to the war. Ward first-aid kits, which at the end of 1942 the General Board recommended be established by all wards considering themselves to be in war-risk areas, were reported to number 736 by the end of 1943. Furthermore, it was reported that 469 home-nursing supply chests, containing an aggregate of 9,882 articles for loaning or renting in case of illness in the community, had been established; and 538 wards stated they were maintaining current lists of trained and practical nurses residing within their boundaries, as had been requested by the General Board.

Also, early in 1943, all English-speaking Relief Societies distributed to all families of the Church pamphlets issued by the General Board urging every possible precaution to preserve health through such means as proper nutrition, adequate clothing and bedding, and general care, and recommending that all families provide themselves with a family first-aid kit for use in case of disaster, accident, or household emergencies. The pamphlets also contained a recommended list of articles to constitute a family first-aid kit.

Red Cross courses in home nursing and nutrition were continued in many localities, and canteen service was given by Relief Society women at railroad stations and other points where troop trains stopped. Many Relief Societies also continued to sponsor recreational activities for service men, and to provide hostess service at service clubs.