[Vol31 | July 1944 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Preview 405 Testament]
based  on  fact  to  be  convincing  and  last- 
ing? (c)  Give  illustrations  of  historical 
hterature  outside  the  New  Testament. 
2.  What  are  two  characteristics  that  lift 
the  writings  of  St.  Luke  to  a  high  stand- 
ard of  literary  history? 
3.  Have  some  member  of  the  class  read 
aloud  the  excerpts  from  St.  Luke  given 
in  the  lesson. 
4.  Let  members  of  the  class,  previously 
assigned,  continue  the  reading  by  giving  in 
their  order  these  other  "high  points"  in 
the  story  of  the  Savior  and  His  Apostles: 
(a)  Jesus  Teaches  the  Nazarenes  (Luke 
4:  16-24);  (h)  Jesus  Casts  out  a  Devil 
(Luke  4:32-37);  (c)  Jesus  calls  Peter  and 
Others  to  the  Ministry  (Luke  5:  1-11); 
(d)  Jesus  Answers  the  Pharisees  (Luke  6: 
1-15);  (e)  Jesus  Heals  the  Centurion's 
Servant  (Luke  7:1-9). 
Note:  The  foregoing  quotations  are  sug- 
gested as  typical  ones  showing  the  lucid 
style  of  St.  Luke.  As  they  or  other  excerpts 
from  his  Gospel  are  read  aloud,  note  how 
clear  and  rhythmic  is  his  record  of  the 
events.  Other  choice  selections  may,  of 
course,  be  taken. 
5.  Why  is  it  of  basic  importance  in  the 
study  of  literature  that  one  learn  first  the 
historic  background?  Illustrate  with  ref- 
erence to  our  own  story  of  America  and  its 
literature. 
Social  Si aence 
Modern  Applications  of  Ethical  Principles 
Preview  of  Lessons  for  1944-45 
npHE  social  service  lessons  outlined 
for  this  year  and  next  will  deal 
with  the  field  of  social  ethics.  Our 
decision  to  devote  this  much  time 
to  a  study  of  this  subject  grows  out 
of  our  sincere  belief  that  much  of 
the  confusion  and  despair  in  the 
modern  world  results  from  man's  in- 
clination to  desert  the  great  moral 
principles  of  the  ages.  Modern  liv- 
ing is  too  superficial  and  hedonistic 
to  bring  the  peace  and  happiness  so 
much  desired  by  everyone;  there  is 
need  for  a  quick  and  complete  re- 
turn to  virtue. 
In  treating  the  subjects  chosen  for

410 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY   1944 
discussion  we  will  attempt  to  pre- 
sent materials  and  develop  points  of 
view  that  will  be  helpful  in  righteous 
living.  Our  concern  will  be  more 
with  the  present  and  the  future  than 
with  the  past,  and  our  approach  will 
be  more  analytic  and  synthetic 
than  dogmatic.  In  other  words,  our 
aim  is  practical  rather  than  theo- 
retical. We  are  anxious  to  present 
a  series  of  helps  to  better  living  that 
will  be  understood  and  will  find  ap- 
plication in  the  hves  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  For  this  reason  our  emphasis 
will  be  upon  immediate  social  situa- 
tions rather  than  remote  philosophi- 
cal abstractions. 
The  first  year's  lesson  series  will 
deal  largely  with  ethical  principles; 
and  the  second  year's  with  areas  of 
application,  but  there  will  be  over- 
lapping of  these  phases  all  the  way 
through,  and  an  ever-present  at- 
tempt to  see  principles  side  by  side 
with  applications  in  real  life  situa- 
tions. Lesson  titles  for  the  first  year 
are  as  follows: 
1 .  Morality  in  Our  Day 
Lesson  Aim:  To  set  the  stage  for  what 
is  to  follow  throughout  the  course  by  ex- 
amining some  of  the  important  trends, 
problems,  and  concepts  in  the  field  of 
modern  social  ethics. 
2.  Men   Are   That  They   Might 
Have  Joy 
Lesson  Aim:  To  develop  the  thought 
that  happiness  is  the  goal  of  all  human 
endeavor,  the  inner  quest  of  the  soul;  and 
that  the  greatest  happiness  is  the  greatest 
good. 
3.  The  Road  to  Righteousness 
Lesson  Aim:  To  expand  on  the  idea  of 
happiness   through   personal   achievement, 
and   to   show,  thereby,  that  the  road    to 
righteousness  involves  intelligent  and  pro 
gressive  living. 
4.  Freedom  and  Responsibility 
Lesson  Aim:  To  show  that  freedom  and 
responsibility  are  inseparably  connected; 
that  consequences  follow  acts;  and  that 
individuals  are  therefore  morally  respon- 
sible for  their  acts. 
5.  Truth  and  Its  Perversions 
Lesson  Aim:  To  examine  truth  as  the 
framework  of  ethics,  and  to  study  some  of 
the  ways  in  which  it  becomes  perverted. 
6.  Honesty^  The  Core  of  Charac- 
ter Lesson  Aim:  To  analyze  the  ethical 
aspects  of  character,  and  to  show  that 
honesty  is  at  the  heart  or  core  of  it  all. 
7.  Brotherhood.  The  Key  to 
Greatness 
Lesson  Aim:  To  show  that  greatness  is 
dependent  upon  bigness  of  soul;  that  virtue 
in  its  highest  sense  requires  the  submerg- 
ence of  self  to  the  welfare  of  others. 
Class  leaders  will  do  well  to  read 
as  widely  on  these  subjects  as  time 
permits.  The  references  listed  at 
the  end  of  each  lesson  are  intended 
to  be  suggestive  rather  than  ex- 
haustive, and  it  would  be  advisable, 
where  possible,  to  supplement  this 
reading  with  other  sources  found  in 
home  or  local  libraries.  Standard 
Latter-day  Saint  works,  together 
with  other  Church  books  and  peri- 
odicals will  prove  most  helpful. 
Reader's  guides  and  card  indices  in 
libraries  should  also  reveal  ample 
supplementary  material  under  such 
headings  as  ''morality,"  "ethics," 
''social  ethics,"  "Christian  ethics," 
et  cetera.  The  dictionary  should  be 
used  frequently,  and  encyclopedias 
will  prove  valuable  as  well. 
It  is  realized  that  some  of  the  list- 
ed references  will  not  be  available  to 
all  class  leaders,  but  a  careful  search- 
ing of  sources  that  are  available 
should    bring    to   light    more    than

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  411 
enough  material  to  make  the  lessons  to  be  held  down  by  these  sugges- 
both  interesting  and  beneficial.  tions.    Adapt  your  discussions  to  the 
It  is  to  be  understood  that  the  les-  needs  and  interests  of  your  group, 
sons  themselves    are    to    form    the  Do  not  expect  complete  agreement 
groundwork  or  nucleus  for  all  dis-  on  every  point,  but  welcome  friend- 
cussion.  References  listed  with  thes6  ly  clashes  in  opinion  as  stimulants  in 
lessons,    though    not    endorsed    in  the  cross-fertilization  of  ideas  leading 
their  entirety,  can    provide  supple-  to  growth    and    character   develop- 
mentary    material    that    will    prove  ment.    Some  of  us  need  to  be  shak- 
stimulating,  and  they  should  be  used  en  out  of  the   moral    complacency 
for  this  purpose,  but  though  used  and    stereotyped     standards     into 
they  should    always  be    sifted  and  which  we  have  slipped,  and  well-di- 
slanted  toward  the  Latter-day  Saint  rected  lively  discussions  can  help  us 
point  of  view.  re-think  and  revitalize  our  lives  in 
Use  the  problems  given  at  the  end  line  with  righteous  and  progressive 
of  each  lesson  as  it  seems  desirable  living.    That  is  our  hope  in  offering 
and  advisable  to  do  so,  but  try  not  these  lessons. 
Lesson  I— Morality  in  Our  Day 
For  Tuesday,  October  24,  1944 
Lesson  Aim:  To  set  the  stage  for  what  is  to  follow  throughout  the  course  by  examin 
ing  some  of  the  important  trends,  problems,  and  concepts  in  the  field  of  modern  social 
ethics. 
"lATE  live  in  an  age  of  complexity,  plexity  of  social  structure  both  add 
speed,  and    confusion   such  as  to  the  confusion,  and  in  it  all  one 
the  world  has  never  before  known,  is  led  to  exclaim  as  Aristophanes  did 
Ideas  clash  with  ideas,  faith  yields  many    centuries    ago,     ''Whirl     is 
to  skepticism,  and  everything  bows  King.'' 
to  change.  In  the  cross  currents  of  The  message  of  this  and  other  les- 
opinion  and  expression  so  common  sons  to  follow  is  one  of  optimism 
today,  many  become  bewildered,  and  hope  growing  out  of  the  under- 
frustrated,  and  lost;  sucked  in  by  the  standing,  courage,  and  struggle  in- 
mad  whirl  around  them,  many  are  trinsic  in  anything  really  worth 
left  floundering  for  something  to  while.  The  pictures  presented  will 
hold  to  that  is  solid  and  funda-  not  all  be  pretty  but  they  will  be 
mental.  The  moral  codes  of  yester-  real,  and  they  can  be  made  pleasant 
day,  many  of  them,  are  uprooted  if  mankind  will  but  put  forth  the  ef- 
from  their  established  moorings  and  fort  necessary  to  change  the  situa- 
their  ties  still  dangle  for  want  of  tions.  Much  of  the  confusion  and 
anchorage  in  modern  life.  The  tem-  despair  in  the  world  today  results 
po  of  social  change  and  the  com-  from  man's  inclination  to  desert  the

412  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1944 
great  moral  principles  of  the  ages,  the  thesis  of  social  progress.  If  the 
We  cannot  solve  these  problems  of  advancement  of  humanity  is  to  be 
human  suffering  by  shutting  our  eyes  measured  in  terms  of  material  in- 
to them,  by  running  away  from  re-  vention  alone,  then  progress  we  have; 
ality,  by  being  ostrich-like  and  hid-  but  if  happiness  and  kindness  are  the 
ing  our  heads  in  the  sand.  Neither,  criteria  of  human  advancement,  the 
of  course,  can  we  alleviate  man's  mis-  question  of  progress  remains  a  ques- 
ery  by  simply  looking  at  it  and  brood-  tion.  It  is  in  the  realms  of  the  social, 
ing.  But  we  must  look  before  we  the  moral,  and  the  spiritual  that 
can  intelligently  act;  we  must  see  man  has  climbed  the  least  and  suf- 
where  we  are  before  we  can  start  fered  the  most, 
building  for  something  better.  It  is  This  tendency  for  change  in  the 
in  the  spirit  of  realistically  under-  social  and  less  tangible  aspects  of 
standing  where  we  are  so  that  we  culture  to  drag  and  remain  far  be- 
can  build  for  a  better  world  that  we  hind  innovations  or  changes  in  ma- 
turn  now  to  glimpse  some  of  the  un-  terial  culture  the  sociologist  has 
pleasing  aspects  of  human  relation-  called  a  cultural  lag.  It  is  well  recog-
