Vol. 29		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1901. 		No. 24


CONTENTS.
In the Interest of Peace.........May Wright Sewall	103
Queen Victoria..............................................E. J.	103
Primary Sociable............................Ella W. Hyde	104
Lucy M. Hewlings..................................E. B. W.	105
A Tribute to Mrs. Avery.......................................	105
General R. S. Conference..................E. B. Wells	106
Anniversary Celebration..................Maria Cook	108
In Memoriam.......................................................	108
R. S. Reports........................................................	109
EDITORIAL—The Woman’s Exponent.............	106
	Birthday Celebration...................................	106
POETRY—Sister Bathsheba’s Birthday, L. G. R,	103
	An Ideal..............................L. M. Hewlings	105


[Column 1]
	SISTER BATHSHEBA’S SEVENTY-NINTH
				BIRTHDAY.

MAY THIRD, NINETEEN HUNDRED AND ONE.

	The Sister Workers in the Salt Lake
Temple presenting Sister Bathsheba with a
beautiful white lace fichu, designed to be
worn on the head.

The "crown" that we bring you, our mother and
	friend,
    Is only a token of true, tender love,
But adorned with it here, your dear presence will
	lend
    A cheerful reminder of glories above.

While the beautiful "soul crown" you've chosen to
	bear,
    Is Faith unalloyed with any disparity;
Pure hope is the “soul-robe” you modestly wear,
    And your chaste, royal mantle is unfailing
	Charity.

		“WHYS AND WHEREFORES.”

“In the beginning!” Well, it is not stated,
    Why everything in heaven and earth was made;
And yet we read that God or Gods created
    The earth and sea, the sunshine and the shade.

And as we daily learn, the plain truths witness,
    That God’s unfailing plans together run,
We find in all, through all eternal fitness,
    And come to see why some great things are
	done.

And yet with all we learn we know so little!
    Like school boys who of old their balls would
	wind,
We snap a thread sometimes, as pipe-stem brittle,
    It tangles, snarls, the end we cannot find.

Like “stupids” idly on the high stool perching,
    Or meekly bearing the old master’s rod;
The lesson comes, no mortal man by searching,
    Without the Spirit’s aid can find out God.

But by the light of heavenly inspiration, 
“The testimony of the Lord is sure,”
And making wise the simple brings salvation
    To all who seek sincerely to secure.

I deviate from points I wish to touch and there-
	fore.
    Will turn abruptly here and finish soon;
I’d like to try to tell the “why and wherefore,”
    These friends are gathered here this afternoon.

’Tis not to show off clothing rich and splendid.
For that the weather should have been more
fine.*
Nor vet that costly gifts would be extended,
    By this dear day’s fair guest, now Seventy-nine.

Beloved Bathsheba, our sister, mother,  
    ’Tis not for any worldly rank you claim;
But for a greater cause than any other—
    You follow Christ and magnify His name.

You do His works and have done strictly, purely,
    These seventy-nine long years, your whole life
	through;
And we your sincere friends are honored surely,
    In doing honor unto one like you.
-----
	*A shower of rain continued all day.

[Column 2]
Not only we who have this priceless pleasure,
    Of greeting you with greetings true and fond,
But all the Saints your name revere and treasure,
    Not here alone, but in the world beyond.

Joseph and Hyrum are anticipating,
    With thousands more, the happy, joyous scene,
When President George A. Smith now calmly
waiting,
Shall, welcome home his bride, his priestess,
	queen!

But, oh, “come down,” we’ll not go off in
	raptures;
    This world is good enough for you to stay, 
Long, long, ere that dear hand your spirit cap-
	tures—
    We want you here for many a glad birthday.
				Louisa L. Greene Richards.


[Column 1]
IN THE INTEREST OF PEACE.
	On May 15, 1899, a universal demon-
stration in behalf of peace was undertaken
by an international committee of women.
Through the indefatigable labors of this
committee numerous meetings were held in
eighteen different countries. The chairman
of the entire committee, Frau Margerethe
Lenore Selenka, Munich, reported the
results of this demonstration the peace con-
ference at its opening session at the Hague,
which took place on May 18th of that year.
	Notwithstanding the discouraging condi-
tions of the intervening years, and the many
pessimistic jeers at the Czar’s conference at
the Hague, it is certainly a matter for
grateful consideration that as a result of
that conference the permanent court of
international arbitration will convene at the
Hague on the second anniversary of the
conference. To celebrate this event, to
show that their zeal for peace, instead of
being cooled by wars and rumors of wars,
is only by these events excited to greater
ardor, the same international committee has
undertaken another demonstration by
women to be held on May 18th, 1901.
The demonstration will be simultaneous
with the opening of the court of interna-
tional arbitration,
	By the authority of the international
committee, including distinguished women
of Germany, England, Austria, Canada,
Belgium, Denmark, Spain, France, Hol-
land, Roumania, Hungary, Italy, Norway,
Russia, Servia, Sweden, Switzerland and
Japan, as the representatives on the com-
mittee in the United States, the under-
signed hereby urges women throughout the
United States to arrange for meetings, large
and small, in behalf of international peace
and arbitration.
	Wherever local councils exist, it is rec-
ommended that such organizations as they
include shoud take the initiative in making
arrangements for such meetings.
	In 1899, with less than a month’s notice,
there were held in the United States on
May 15th, in twenty-one different States,
163 meetings, at which there were reported
to be present 73,921 women. With that
precedent the same length of time should
enable the women of our country to double
the number of meetings to be held on May
18th, and to proportionately increase their
attendance.
	The taste of war which has been so bit-

[Column 2]
ter upon our lips should, and surely does,
increase the desire of women everywhere to
strengthen public sentiment for peace and
to increase public faith in the possibility of
ultimate arrival at a condition of universal
peace, where war will no longer be toler-
ated by enlightened nations more than per-
sonal combat is now tolerated by enlightened
individuals.
	Let all women to whose notice this call
comes feel the appeal to be an individual
one to aid in a local demonstration. 
	Where local councils do not exist
women’s clubs, temperance unions, educa-
tional associations and college leagues are
all appropriate agencies through which ar-
rangements may be made for local demon-
strations.
		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,
Representing the United States of America
	on the International Peace Committee
	of Women.


QUEEN VICTORIA.
	Queen Victoria was the only daughter, in
fact the only child of Edward, Duke of Kent,
Fourth son of King George the III. She
was born May 24, 1819. In her childhood
and through the early years of girlhood,
she was somewhat acquainted with the
trials of genteel poverty. At her father’s
death, her mother, the Duchess of Kent,
and her young daughter, Victoria, Eng-
land's future Queen, were entirely depen-
dent upon the bounty of her uncle for their
support, and for the education of the future
ruler of Great Britain. This support we are
told was not liberal, but rather grudgingly
bestowed, and our young princess was
therefore taught to practice economy in her
early life, which has doubtless proved of
great benefit to her since. It certainly
brought her into closer communion with
the greatest number of her subjects. Her
sympathy was extended very many times
by relieving the wants of the distressed.
	Those who had the privilege of her ac-
quaintance in her childhood say she was of
a very lovable disposition, kind to all, yet
firm in what she conceived to be right.
	Victoria was proclaimed Queen of Eng-
land, Ireland, Scotland and Wales, June 20,
1837, ascending the throne in her eigh-
teenth year. She had been brought up far
from the court by her widowed mother, al-
most isolated, shut off from royalty and
their customs. Although living in Ken-
sington palace, she was confined to the
rooms, grudgingly allowed them by her
uncle, not permitted the freedom of the
palace and its surroundings. The small in-
come allowed them compelled them to live
in retirement. She was almost unknown
to those even whose duty it was to announce
to the new queen her accession.
	The Archbishop of Canterbury and the
Lord Chamberlain arrived at five in the
morning at Kensington palace, where they
resided. All the gates were shut and it
was with some difficulty that they obtained
admittance to the presence of the princess,
awakened suddenly by their message. At
eleven o’clock the council met.


[Column 1]
	Mr. Charles Greville, secretary of the
Privy Council, has related with an amia-
bility unusual to him, this first entrance of
the Sovereign upon her public duties. The
king died at twenty minutes after two a.
m., June 20, 1837, and the young queen
met the council at Kensington palace at
eleven a. m. Never was anything like the
first impression she produced, or the chorus
of praise and admiration which was raised
about her manner and behavior, and cer-
tainly not without justice. It was very ex-
traordinary and something far beyond what
was looked for. Her extreme youth and
inexperience and the ignorance of the world
concerning her, naturally excited intense
curiosity to see how she would act on this
trying occasion; and there was a consider-
able assemblage at the palace, notwith-
standing the short notice that was given.
	The first thing to be done was to teach
her her lesson, which for this purpose,
Lord Melbourne had himself to learn. She
bowed to the Lords, took her seat and then
read her speech in a clear, distinct and
audible voice, and without any appearance
of fear or embarrasment.
	She was quite plainly dressed and in
mourning. After she had read her speech
and taken and signed the oath for the
security of the Church of Scotland, the
privy councilors were sworn—the two royal
dukes fi[-]st by themselves, and as these two
old men, her uncles, knelt before her, swear-
ing allegiance and kissing her hand, she
blushed to her eyes, as though she felt the
contrast between their civil and their
natural relations; this was the only sign of
emotion which she evinced. Her manner
to them was very gracious and engaging.
She kissed them both and rose from her
chair and moved toward the Duke of Sussex
who was fartherest from her, and too infirm
to reach her. She seemed rather bewil-
dered at the multitude who were sworn,
and who came one after another to kiss her
hand; but she did not speak to anybody,
nor did she make the slightest difference in
her manner to any individual of any rank,
station or party.
	The Duke of Wellington was heard to
exclaim, “If she had been my own daugh-
ter I could not have wished her to do
better.”
	Victoria was crowned Queen one year
after her accession, her coronation taking
place in June, 1838. Some-months after
troubles arose over the Dominion of
Canada and Her Majesty resigned. The
Duke of Wellington advised the young
queen to send for Sir Robert Peel, who
formed a new ministry, but it was a Tory
cabinet. Sir Robert Peel readily made his
selection. The queen although offering
no objections did not hesitate to say she
regretted the loss of the Whigs, but
yielded without hesitation to the consti-
tutional rule which required her to part
with them.
	But when Sir Robert interfered with her
household, requesting the dismissal of
Lady Normandy and the Duchess of
Sutherland, to whom the queen was at-
tached, she could not see why because
their husbands were politically opposed to
Sir Robert Peel, that her household should
be broken up, and she declined to dismiss
any of her ladies
	As she was unmarried it was her duty
according to custom to make the proposal
of marriage. Prince Albert, her cousin,
was visiting her at one of her palaces, (I

[Column 2]
think it was Windsor) when she naively
asked how he would like to live there al-
ways? He answered that he would like it
very much.
	When the queen opened Parliament on
the 16th of January, 1840, she announced
to the nation her intention to marry her
cousin, Prince Albert of Saxe Colburg, of
Gotha. They were married at the Chapel
Royal, St. James, February 10, 1840, and
all England rejoiced.
	This marriage was productive of much
good. Prince Albert proved a wise
Counselor to Her Majesty, and he endeared
himself to Her Majesty’s subjects, because
of his love and kindness to all the people
of the realm. Their union was blessed
with nine children, five daughters and four
sons.
	Queen Victoria was of a very sympathet-
ic nature. She fully sympathized with the
oppressed. After a most successful reign
of nearly sixty-four years, during which
Great Britain grew to be the mightest
nation in the whole world, the good Queen
Victoria, like other mortals of less renown,
passed to the great beyond. She died on
the Isle of Wight, January 22, 1901. When
the news of her demise was wired abroad,
it sent a thrill of sympathy and sorrow
throughout the entire world.
	The greatest woman sovereign that ever
wore a crown is no more numbered among
mortals was the universal feeling in all
civilized lands She has run her course,
finished her work on earth and left a rec-
ord behind her that in many respects has
never been surpassed by any of her sex.
	She reigned successfully over a people
which like the Americans stands for liber-
ty, progress and enlightenment “Queen
Victoria was certainly the greatest sover-
eign of our century,” wrote an English
editor. “She was the noblest, the kindest,
the most devoted of women who ever sat
on a throne. Woman, yes it is that holy
word, heavy with blessings to most born to
this planet, which comes to the lips from
hearts in which it has long been enshrined,
as we stand by the dead form of our be-
loved queen. She was always so womanly,
so tender and unselfish; so prompt with an
arrowy word sped by wise and informed
affection; so just in her silence; so truly
eloquent in her speech; so steadfast in her
trust in all that is best in men and women;
so ready to take us all, helpless children,
wounded soldiers, broken lives and bruised
hearts, triumphant servants and conquer-
ing geniuses, into the sunshine of an
appreciative and compassionate heart.”
E. J.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY SOCIABLE.
	The Primary officers’ held a special
meeting and social in the Templeton build-
ing, Saturday, March 20, 1901, in honor of
the retiring counselor, Sister Mary L. Mor-
ris, and also to appoint another counselor
in her place. President Camilla C. Cobb
presided at the meeting.
	After the opening exercises the roll of
officers was called and was responded to
with sentiments.
	President Cobb in her opening remarks
said this special occasion was tendered sis-
ter Morris to show our love and esteem for
her. She had always done whatever she
was called upon to do, and had been very
efficient in her work. She now wished to
resign her position as counselor in the

[Column 2]
Stake Board on account of ill health. It
would be necessary to appoint another
counselor, but among so many faithful
workers it was difficult to choose.
	Counselor L. A. Wells moved that Sister
Fanny Woolley be elected to fill the
vacancy. A vote was taken and Sister
Woolley was unanimously sustained.
	Sister Fanny Woolley expressed her
thanks for the honor conferred, and was
willing to respond to the call. Said she
felt her weakness but knew the Lord would
assist her to fill the position. Asked for
the faith and prayers of the sisters.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt it a privilege to
be with us on this occasion. Had known
Sister Morris for many years. She had al-
ways been interested in Primary work.
Her influence with the children reflected
great credit on her, knew she had the con-
fidence and prayers of us all.
	Sister Katherine Wells thought Sister
Mary L. Morris should be made honorary
aid in the Stake Board. The idea was
favorably received by all present.
	Sister Morris responded, saying: “While
my hand has its cunning and my brain its
power to act, I am going to work for the
kingdom of God.”
	A number of the officers expressed their
love for Sister Morris and regret at losing
her from the Primary, and also felt we had
been directed aright in selecting Sister
Fanny Woolley to fill the vacancy.
	Fanny Farnes favored us with the solo,
“O Happy Day.”
	Counselor L. A. Wells was pleased to
speak a few words in honor of Sister Mor-
ris. Referred to their labors together.
	Sister Amanda Done gave a recitation
entitled, “The Returning Summer.”
	Sister Mary L. Morris felt honored in
being with us. She loved all the officers
and had enjoyed her labors with them, but
was not able to continue her work in the
Primary. Spoke of her interest in the
Temple, and said that she desired to labor
there. Felt grateful at this expression of
love that had been shown her, and prayed
that God would bless us.
	A vote of thanks was then tendered Sis-
ter Morris for her past labors in the
Primary.
	Sister Rida Taylor gave a recitation en-
titled, “Trouble in the Amen Corner.”
	After singing, “Our Work and Our
Wealth,” and benediction by Sister Barrett,
the company adjourned to another room
where refreshments were served, and Presi-
dent Cobb, in a neat little speech, presented
Sister Morris with a handsome china berry
dish, as a token of love and appreciation
from her co-workers in the Primary cause.
	In response to a gift from the Primary
of a handsome berry dish and a very choice
bouquet of American beauty roses and car-
nations, Sister Morris said, “I value these
tokens of love more than gold and dia-
monds.”
			ELLA W. HYDE, Sec.


Minneapolis entertains the National Con-
vention the week beginning May 30. En-
tertainment will be furnished to all dele-
gates and speakers whose names are sent to
Dr. Cora Smith Eaton, Chairman Local
Arrangement Committee, 607 Masonic
Temple, Minneapolis, Minn., or to Mrs.
Ima Winchell Stacy, Chairman Entertain-
ment Committee, 1322 Vine Place, Minne-
apolis, Minn.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AN IDEAL.
		L. M. HEWLINGS.
Here is my home! far, far away from dying,
	A mansion in the city of the blest,
For which long years my weary heart was sighing
	’Mid worldly ways of toil and cares opprest;
Where joys were brief, and oft-times brought re-
		pining,
	That made earth-life a dream of deep unrest.

In this fair home thro’ all its pleasant borders,
	No place is found for soul-destroying sin,
Sickness, disease and pain, those dread marauders
	Are feared no more! they cannot enter in.
No weary watchers wait for coming morrow,
	No night is here, and all is peace within.

No graves are here! no loving ties are severed,
	No mourners weep, all tears are wiped away,
No dreaded monarch, mighty king of terrors,
	O’er this fair clime can ever hold his sway.
No valley’s gloom, nor cypress wreath of sorrow, 	
	No emblems sad, of parting, or decay,

Thro’ the Red sea of trial holding ever,
	His loving hand I passed with tearful eyes,
Into the radiance of bliss forever,
	Into a glorious home of glad surprise,
Renewed, redeemed, torturing bonds all riven,
	A home of endless rest—sweet rest in heaven.


[Column 1]
		LUCY M. HEWLINGS.
	“So He giveth His beloved sleep.”

	Mrs. L. M. Hewlings, who died in this
city, April 23, 1901, was a very remarkable
woman; even in her early school days giving
great promise of talent in literary work and
was a charming companion and ardent
friend of her young associates.
	She was born in Petersham, Worcester
Co., Mass., Dec. 3, 1817, and was descended
from the old Puritan stock and possessed
those sterling qualities and distinctive
characteristics which have marked the pos-
terity of old New Englanders from their ar-
rival in America.
	Mrs. Hewlings, as she is best known
here, was married March 30, 1837, to Henry
H. Granger, of Hardwick, Mass., where
they lived afterwards and where their six
children were born. When the civil war
broke out her husband and two sons entered
the service as volunteers. Her husband re-
cruited the 10th Massachusetts Battery of
light artillery and was made captain.
Afterwards for gallant and meritorious con-
duct he was promoted Colonel on the recom-
mendation of Generals Grant, Hancock and
Miles. He served with great distinction
until October 27, 1864, when he was mortal-
ly wounded at the battle of Hatcher’s Run,
Va., and died in the hospital at City Point.
His body was taken to Hardwick, Mass,
where he was given a public funeral, and a
handsome monument has been erected to
his memory. The record of the Granger
family, which is the same from which Sarah
M. Kimball comes, says, “when Col.
Granger was wounded he asked his men to
gather around him that he might take them
by the hand and bid them good-bye and to
look out for the Battery after he was gone,
and to get Lieut. Smith, who had been
wounded, off the field if possible.”
	Henry Corydon the eldest son enlisted in
Company B. 11th Massachusetts Volunteers,
in 1861, and was made soon after first
Lieutenant. He was killed at the battle of
Williamsburg, Va., and buried on the field,
but his remains were afterwards taken to the
National cemetery at Yorktown. His
Colonel, Bromwell Granger, speaks highly
of his courage and said he once procured his
honorable discharge on account of his youth
and delicate health, fearing he could not en-
dure the hardships, but the boy refused to

[Column 2]
accept it and said when he wanted a dis-
charge he would ask for it. His death on
the battlefield occurred May 5, 1862.
	Another son, Louis Edwin, was also in
the Civil war at the same time, and was al-
so made Lieutenant Colonel. He died in
New York City in 1899, and is buried at
Hardwick beside his father. Col. L. E.
Granger came to Utah in 1869, and while
here married Miriam Decker, daughter of
Charles and Vilate Young Decker, and
granddaughter to President Brigham Young.
His two boys, offspring of that marriage,
are living here, and were with their grand-
mother, Mrs. Hewlings, during the time of
her recent illness and death.
	Mrs. Hewlings children were all dead.
Her eldest daughter died soon after the war,
her youngest son died at six years of age,
during the war, another son had died when
a babe and one daughter remained who
came to Utah in 1872 and taught school
with Miss Mary E. Cook in the Social Hall.
She will be remembered by many of those
teachers, pupils and friends associated with
Miss Cook in those days. She married and
lived in the East afterwards, where she
died July 29, 1880, leaving two boys.
	Sometime after the war, in the early
seventies, the widow of Col. Granger mar-
ried the Rev. George R. Hewlings, an
English minister, a man of fine family, his
father a member of the British Parliament,
who had been educated at Cambridge
University, England, and graduated first in
law, L. L. D., afterwards choosing the
ministry for which he prepared himself,
thinking to go out to India, but instead
settled first in Lincolnshire and subsequent-
ly in Yorkshire, his wife having died and
his children married he came to America,
and shortly after married Mrs. Lucy M.
Granger and they came to Utah, living in
Salt Lake City for about five or six years.
	Mrs. Hewlings was an ardent temper-
ance woman and for some years during her
widowhood traveled and lectured on tem-
perance and upon other subjects; she had
an excellent voice and fine presence, and
was well-informed on the topic of the
times; her memory was quite remarkable
and she was a brilliant conversationalist. All
her life she had written for newspapers and
magizines, both in prose and verse.
	She had been a great Bible student and
was devotional and intensely religious in
her nature. She was a great admirer of
Sister Eliza R. Snow and of Sister Sarah M.
Kimball with whom she became well ac-
quainted during her sojourn here in the
seventies, and she knew intimately in the
East, Lucy Stone, Mary A. Livermore,
Frances Willard, also Julia Ward Howe
and many others of the women whose
names are familiar to the public. Mrs.
Hewlings was a woman of very strong
character, and one who had seen much of
the world and kept posted on the vital sub-
jects of the times in which she lived.
	Mrs. Hewlings was 83 years, four months
and twenty days old at the time of
her demise. She retained all her faculties
to the very last, receiving letters from her
friends in the East and dictating to those
about her what to reply until the last day
or two before her departure from this life.

	“So—Through storms and darkness,
		Through great waters deep,
	Through the cloud whose black embraces,
		Hidden sunbeams keep:
	So He brings His chosen there,
	To the Haven safe and fair!

[Column 3]
		“So—Through fierce winds blowing,
		Through rough desert ways,
	Through long nights whose dreary darkness,
		Reaches o’er the days:
	So, He brings them Home at last,
	Safe from every stormy blast!”
							E. B. W.


A TRIBUTE TO MRS. AVERY.
	A tribute to Mrs. Rachel Foster
Avery, who has announced her re-
tirement at the coming National Suffrage
Convention from the corresponding secre-
taryship, is receiving many expressions of
affection and good-will. Mrs. E. M. Bab-
cock writes of her:
	Nothing could more forcibly express the
esteem in which she is held than the words
of one who has been actively engaged with
her in suffrage work for many years: “She
is the loveliest character that I ever
knew.”
	Mrs. Avery is not only a suffragist, but a 
philanthropist, humanitarian and reformer,
in the full sense of these words; in fact she
is everything that tends to make the world
better. She possesses rare executive abili-
ty, and in her enthusiasm for humanity she
has used both her abilities and private for-
tune most liberally. . . . Mrs. Avery was
corresponding secretary of the committee of
arrangements for the World’s Congress of
Representative Women, the National and
International Council of Women and 
National Suffrage Association, all of which
held such successful meetings in Chicago
during the World’s Fair. She was also
corresponding secretary of the National
Council of Women held in Washington in
1895. Mrs. Avery’s management of the
International Council of Women, held in 
Washington in 1888, under the auspices of 
the National Suffrage Association, was the 
crowning effort of her executive genius. 
There were representatives from fifty-three
different national organizations from seven
distinct nations. The expenses of this
meeting made a grand total of $14,000, the
financial risk being assumed by Miss
Anthony and Mrs. Avery. 
	Mrs. Avery has for several years wished
to retire from the secretaryship, and has re-
tained it only through Miss Anthony’s
persuasions. She has been secretary first
in the National and later in the National 
American W. S. A for twenty-one years.
						—Ex.


ABOUT 200 delegates took part in the
annual meeting lately held in Brooklyn,
N. Y., of the General Society of the
Daughters of the Revolution. Miss Ada-
line W. Sterling presided. The Society’s
work in behalf of the Valley Forge enter-
prise has been active, and all the State
auxiliaries have contributed appreciable
amounts, Massachusetts leading off with
$1,700. One new undertaking proposed
is a “fund” for young women in procuring
a college education. From the fund $300
will be advanced without interest, until it
can be repaid. Applicants must be eligable
for membership in the society. A resolu-
tion offered by Mrs. John L. McNeill of
Colorado protests against the use of the
national flag for commercial and decorative
purposes. A committee has been appointed
to co-oporate with a society organized to
prevent it.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, at
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1901.


[Column 1]
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
VOLUME TWENTY-NINE.
	This number of the paper closes volume
twenty-nine of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
and in June the thirtieth volume will com-
mence. It is certainly a matter of con-
gratulation for the women of Utah and the
surrounding country in this intermountain
region that this woman’s paper has been
kept alive so much longer than any other
woman's paper in the west that was
started about the same time, and indeed
several woman’s papers that have been es-
tablished since, have only continued for a
few years and have had to be given up for
lack of patronage.
	Our sisters and patrons should appre-
ciate these facts, and that it takes not only
perseverance but money to carry on any
enterprise of this kind, and now when it
has been kept alive so many years through
such very extraordinary efforts, surely
those who feel an interest in woman’s ad-
vancement will try to sustain it at least
until it is through the coming year, which
will make three decades. 
	The agents of the EXPONENT and those
interested in the work of the women of the
Church, and in the higher education and
elevation of women along all the many
lines that tend to the uplifting of the
human race, should feel it a privilege to
help maintain a paper that has done and is
doing  what the EXPONENT has for the
benefit of womankind.
	Looking back over the volumes of our
little paper on file one finds how largely it
has entered into every work and enterprise
undertaken by women, not only here at
home, the centre of women’s organizations
of the Church, but it has reached out all
over the civilized World, and sought to
bring before its readers the best work be-
ing done by women the world over.
	We do not any of us live alone to our-
selves, but every human being owes
something to others, and the example of
the women of Zion is and should be one
worthy of imitation, and it is by contact
and association through women’s great
organizations that much good is being ac-
complished; and much of this is done by
correspondence and literary efforts made
by such women as have the ability and
disposition to write, and to communicate
by means of the pen, the ideas and senti-
ments that help to enlighten the masses of
the people.
	Any sister in the Church who will take

[Column 2]
the time and the pains to look over a few
numbers of the EXPONENT will find so
much of interest that has found place in
its columns, that she would really feel it
worth double the price of the subscription.
As a reference to what women have done
here and elsewhere it is indeed a reposi-
tory, and President Brigham Young was
right when he said he wanted the women
to take the EXPONENT and keep it and
have it bound, for it would be a part of
Church history. It is a record of the
women of Zion, their work and activities
though comparatively few ever think of it
in that connection, and like many other
things the EXPONENT is not estimated at
its real value, because its outward appear-
ance is very plain and unattractive.
	It is possible for the women of Zion to
patronize it so largely that it could be
made much more desirable and a greater
interest taken by those who write for it to
enhance its value so that it may be a
blessing to every home and household in
Zion. The Saints do not have too much
good reading though the remark is often
made, there is not time to read the papers
of the day; yet it is a fact that many books
that are not beneficial are bought not only
in the city, but in the small country towns.
The first investment in the way of reading
matter should be home production, and if
it is not up to the highest standard of ex-
cellence by renewed efforts strive to help it
along. Certainly this people have the best
material there is for stories, verses, essays
and especially history there is no lack of
variety of which to write; nature has been
bountiful in its productions here. The
lakes, the mountains, the mines are all
rich in subjects for the active energies of
the student and specimens of wild flowers
are a treasure to the botanist and even bird
life here has been made a study by the
celebrated ornithologist, Olive Thorne
Miller. Those who dwell in this mountain
region, among the wild and picturesque
scenery, partaking of its beauty and grand-
eur, have a wide range for their ambition
if they but take into consideration what
lies all about them.


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.
	The seventy-ninth birthday anniversary
of our revered and honored Mother in Israel,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, was celebrated
at the handsome residence of Mrs. Philo T.
Farnsworth, in this city, May 3, 1901.
	The beautiful parlors and library were
artistically decorated with flowers, flags and
historic pictures, the parlor and library in
sweet peas, the dining room in red and
white roses and carnations. The music
was by some of the best talent in the city,
Prof. Joseph Anderson and Prof. A. C.
Lund, and the selections were from the
old masters. It was a great addition to the
delightful entertainment.
	Sister Smith was dressed in white and
looked the veritable “Queen of hearts and
homes,” lovable and motherly and alto-
gether charming. Those who received with
her were Mrs. Zina D. H Young, Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mr.
and Mrs. P. T. Farnsworth, Mr. and Mrs.
George H. Horne, Mrs. B. S. Merrill and
Mrs D. R. Allen. Several beautiful young
women assisted in the dining room and a
few lovely little girls acted as ushers,
among them some of Sister Farnsworth’s
daughters.

[Column 2]
	“A Tribute to Aunt Bathsheba,” by the
hostess, Mrs. Farnsworth, was given be-
fore the program proper was rendered, re-
marks by Bishop Winder and Apostle Brig-
ham Young, and Mrs. L. L. G. Richards read
an original poem. Mrs. Thomas Hull sang,
“The End of the Way,” in a delightfully
Scotch way.
	The toast master was Judge William H.
King, late Representative to Congress,
whose eloquence is proverbial, and who
carried off fresh honors in this rather diffi-
cult role.
	Prayer by Bishop O. F. Whitney and the
first response to a toast was given by
President Lorenzo Snow, “George A. and
Aunt Bathsheba.” ‘Our Family,” John
Henry Smith. “The Old Home,” Clarissa
Smith Williams. “Noted Virginians,”
Bishop Whitney. “The Prophet.” Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith. “Father’s First
Counselor,” Brigham Young. “When Old
Friends Meet,” (poem) by Mrs. E. B.
Wells. “Sister Bathsheba in the Relief
Society,” by Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, was
given by Sister Zina Y. Card, as her mother
had retired from the room. “Sister Bath-
sheba at the Temple,” Mrs. A. W. McCune.
“Childhood Reminiscences,” by Mrs.
Bathsheba S. Merrill.” “Grandfather and
Grandmother,” Mrs. D. R. Allen. “Great-
Granddaughter,” Mary S. Horne. “Aunt
Bathsheba,” Julina L. Smith. “Aunt
Bathsheba in the Ward.” Bishop Beatie.
The Bishop having left his wife responded
for him.
	The exercises were so varied by the
toast master’s original introductions that
the program could not possible seem
to have any sameness. A list of the names
of the guests is too long for our little paper
but suffice to say, it could not include all
Sister Smith’s friends and admirers, for
they fill these valleys of the mountains and
extend far away from here into other lands
and climes.
	Congratulations and good wishes were
simply showered upon the honored guest of
the day, her praises were said and sung and
the banquet was in every way desirable,
and the tables so arranged as to give all an
opportunity to see and hear. There seemed
nothing lacking in the management
of the entire affair, which owed
its success to the tact and artistic
skill of the two ladies who gave the party,
Mrs. Farnsworth and Mrs. Alice M.
Horne, to whom all the guests feel indebt-
ed for the great pleasure and honor of par-
ticipating in doing honor to one in every
way so worthy of our love and esteem as
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith.


GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held on Monday, April 8, 1901,
in the Assembly Hall in this city, meeting
commencing at 2 p. m., Counselor Jane S.
Richards presiding. Singing, “Come, let
us anew,” etc. Prayer by Elder Theo-
dore Curtis. Singing, “Let us pray,
gladly pray.” Minutes of October confer-
ence read by the secretary and approved.
	Counselor Elizabeth Moody reported St.
Joseph Stake. The president and counsel-
ors had visited every society in the Stake
except one, and felt all were trying to
serve the Lord. Rejoiced in the work
being done by the women of Zion.
	Sister Black represented Wayne Stake. 
The sisters were doing a great deal in seri-


[Column 1]
culture, they had put out thousands of
mulberry trees, and were not behind in any
of the duties required of the Relief Society.
	Sister Harriet M. Brown, a member of
the General Board, gave a good account of
the Relief Society in Kanab Stake. The
sisters were zealous and faithful in good
works.
	Counselor Angeline Hinckley spoke en-
couragingly of the society in Millard Stake.
They were progressing nicely and had dur-
ing last year had many young mothers
added to the list of members, and felt it
would be an incentive to others to mention
the fact in the conference.
	President Elizabeth Delong, of Pan-
guitch Stake, said they labored under the
disadvantage of being very much scattered,
some places being very remote, but they
visited all as often as possible. They had
some poor to care for, and were anxious to
perform every duty, doing as well as cir-
cumstances would permit.
	President Annie U. Larson, of Emery
Stake, stated they had visited all the settle-
ments and found the sisters alive to their
duties and responsibilities, tried to en-
courage them in saving grain and in rais-
ing silk. There were some sisters had
raised eighty pounds of cocoons. “We
have six halls of our own to meet in in
Emery County.”
	President Jane S. Richards said: “My
dear sisters, I am very much pleased to see
so many here, it is good enough for me to
sit and enjoy it, though we all feel sorry
that our president, Sister Zina, is not her
with us, but you must not think that you
will not have her here, she sends her love
and blessing and good wishes. There is a
great work to be done and we must be
alive and energetic in trying to do our part
and be thankful to the Lord that we live in
this day, and pray that he will bless our
efforts, and help us to do much more in the
future than we have ever done in the past.
It will do Sister Zina so much good to
know that we are doing all we are capable
of to assist her, by kind words and charity.
If any one does a kind act let us appreciate
it, and we must be forgiving and long-
suffering and follow the example of our
Savior, and feel honored that we can do the
work He did. How much mercy He ex-
tended to others. We, too, must be merci-
ful, visit the sick. I realize how good it is
to be visited in sickness,” Sister Richards
related an experience of this kind to illus-
trate her remarks. “When the Prophet
Joseph was living we did not think much
of fine clothes but put a clean apron on our
children and took them to meeting with us.
Now we must have something grand to
take them in. Then it was different and
we were happy, but times have changed. I do
not want to weary you with a long speech.
There are many to hear from. I am glad
we have so many present, I know Sister
Zina will rejoice when she hears of this
gathering. May the Lord bless us all.”
	President B. W. S[-]ith said, “Sisters,
we want to obey counsel and be self-sustain-
ing and appreciate every good thing. We
must exert ourselves to sustain home indus
tries, especially the silk and be honest and
punctual and not neglect our Temple work,
that is one of the obligations we should
keep in mind, go there whenever we can.
I love to see the sisters come to the Temple.
And we want to build a house, we have
the ground given to us and we must exert
ourselves to get the means to build and we

[Column 2]
shall be blest and accomplish it if we are
humble and do right, and I bless you, my
sisters, with all the authority I have, in the
name of Jesus. Amen.”
	President M. Isabella Horne, was glad to
see so many present. Said, “We know we
are doing a great and grand work, to look
after the poor and needy; and we shall
have a reward. This is a grand and
glorious dispensation. What has there
ever been like it? Think of the Lord Him-
self appearing to Joseph Smith, a boy, and
His Son with Him; and saying to Joseph
“This is my beloved Son, hear ye Him!”
And during all his persecutions and trial she
was sustained by an Almighty power.
How many times his enemies sought his
life in various ways, but were not permitted
to take it, until he delivered himself up.
But the Gospel must be preached to all
nations and gather in the honest in heart,
and we are doing our part in caring for the
poor, the needy, the afflicted and distressed;
we must be diligent in our work and seek
at all times the spirit of the Lord and pray
always.”
	Counselor Marilla Daniels reported Utah
Stake. She told us they had been building
two meeting houses, and granaries and col-
lecting grain and trying to fulfill all their
duties and keep pace with the work and
not fall behind in the race.
	President Lucy S. Cardon, Cache Stake,
said, “We are striving to do right and
keep the commandments of the Lord, fol-
low the counsel we receive and be indus-
trious in all the pursuits of life. We have 
fifteen granaries in our Stake and quite a
large amount of grain.
	President Lillie C. Page, of Nebo Stake,
reported that very new Stake scarcely two
months old, organized February 14, 1901
President Jane S. Richards attended the
meeting when the officers were called to
preside and gave instructions. Sister Page
manifested a desire to fulfill all the respon-
sibilities of her office, they try to keep up
with the good work of the society.
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs, of Alpine
Stake, stated that their Stake too was very 
young, not yet three months since it was
organized. The president and counselors
intended to visit through the settlements in
the near future, they were trying to instil
into the minds of the sisters the necessity
of wisdom in all things.
	Sister Emily S. Richards spoke favorably
of the Woman’s Building thought it would
not be hard for three great organizations to
put up a handsome structure that would be
characteristic of women. It should be a
pleasure to do this that in years to come
our children would be proud to look upon
it and say it had been built by their moth-
ers and grandmothers.
	Sister Alice M. Horne in her remarks
said, “I see here more fine women than I
have ever seen before at any one time, and
hope to see our young mothers come for-
ward and join in the work.” She gave out
the notice of the Mother’s Congress which
would convene in the Assembly Hall the
following day and invited all to attend.
	Sister Julina L. Smith said Sister Rich-
ards said Ogden has larger congregations at
conferences than we have here. She felt
we ought to awaken the people to attend.
She then reported for the committee that
had been appointed to call upon the First
Presidency, and spoke of the land so gener-
ously donated to the sisters, knew all
would feel like helping. Referred to the

[Column 3]
first organization of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo, only nineteen members, and now
it numbered several thousands. Spoke
tenderly of Aunt Zina and how we missed
her presence, and also of President Cannon
having gone away to regain his health, it
would be a great sorrow if he should not
recover, hoped he would be raised up and
return home.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon said a few
words, though reluctantly, but stated if she
spoke it must be of the things uppermost in
her mind. She felt that we needed a build-
ing of our own, and we should labor untir-
ingly to accomplish it. Said we sisters
had helped to build every Temple and
every meeting house in Zion, no one
grumbles about tithing, and she thought
the sisters should be willing and glad to
give to the building and believed they
would be richer at home if they would give
freely.
	Meeting adjourned till 7 p. m. Congre-
gation standing sang the Doxology. Bene-
diction by President Susan Grant.
	Evening session, President Jane S. Rich-
ards presiding. Singing, “Come, come ye
Saints.” Prayer by Counselor Annie T.
Hyde, of the Salt Lake Stake. Singing,
“We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
	Sister E. J. Stevenson, of the General
Board addressed the meeting upon the
Word of Wisdom; the proper training of
the children of Zion; faith in the ordinances
of the Gospel and administration for the
healing of the sick instead of employing so
many physicians; kindness, charity and
forgiving each other. Thought we should
be exemplary in all things and by no
means go into debt, refrain from everything
that is not right. Spoke feelingly of home
duties and obligations and improving the
talents given us and adding to them.
	President Wilhelmina M. Erickson, of
North Sanpete Stake, said Sanpete Stake
had been recently divided and she had been
called to preside in the northwest of the
county. The Relief Society had not yet
held a conference, but we know that the
sisters are always willing to do what is
required. “We shall do all that lays in our
power for the General Building and every
call made, and I shall try to do my duty
always, I feel that I need instruction.”
	President Alvira L. Cox, South Sanpete
Stake, said she had not yet visited around
since the division of the Stake had been
made, but had sent instructions to each
branch. The sisters will be able to respond
to the call made for the Woman’s Building,
and when we have a place of our own we
shall not be subject to so much inconven-
ence in holding our meetings and con-
ferences.
	Counselor Hildah H. Larson spoke for
Jordan Stake. The president and counselors
had visited all the branches and found them
in a good condition. There were four
Relief Society halls and ten granaries
owned by the sisters. Sister Larson made
an excellent report. She had watched the
efforts of the women of Zion in various
directions and rejoiced in the progress they
were making.
	President Rebecca Standring said: “I
often think of the labors of the Relief Soci-
ety in Zion to feed the hungry and clothe
the destitute. And the teachers—none can
labor in that cause more faithfully than the
teachers. They are ministering angels of
mercy to publish salvation. The progress
now being made by our sisters rejoices my


(Column 1)
heart and to have a house of our own. Con-
sider what the Savior thought of the
widow’s mite and do not hesitate to give.
If the means is small, "where there's a will
there's a way," and we should persevere and
feel that when we come to Salt Lake there's
a building of our own to come to, that
should stimulate us to new energy. I am
thankful that we are to wait till we get
$20,000 before we commence building. I
have confidence our sisters will do their
best." The speaker referred to the meet-
ing house being built in Alpine Stake,
which the sisters were helping with. They
had helped to build the Provo Tabernacle
and spoke of the many calls and obligations,
but all a part of the grand work. Her re-
marks were excellent.
	President Jane S. Richards felt the re-
marks were just what was needed, and was
glad we had the land to build a house on,
and if we ever get a house the departed
will visit us, Sister Eliza and Brother
Brigham Young and others. What a satis-
faction when we go to the brethren and get
a word of comfort. We have labored long
and have done for all in need, both saint
and sinner, rich and poor and every living
thing; and angels will visit us, and what a
consolation it will be to have a building for
the mothers of Israel, and then after the
storms and so on, we could perhaps have a 
conference in midsummer, about the middle
of June. We have tried two or three times
and have not yet succeeded," Sister Rich-
ards made further explanations in reference
to the proposed conference in June of this
year.
	Counselor L. M. Hart, Bear Lake Stake,
said they had very few poor, but when-
ever there is a case of sickness and distress
all are ready to respond and do all in their
power to alleviate sorrow or suffering. Our
sisters are liberal in giving. We have
about one hundred dollars to appropriate to
the Woman's Building. There were ques-
tions by Sister Hart, which were satisfac-
torily answered by President Richards.
	President B. W. Smith spoke a few
words about the house, explained the ar-
rangement of the basement, kitchens
pantries, dining rooms or banqueting hall
cooking utensils, etc. She thought every
woman who could should give a dollar, the
sisters would never feel it. Sister Smith
wanted the house to be completed by her
birthday in May 1902, so we could cele-
brate her 80th anniversary there.
	President Susan Grant spoke upon union
and love and diligence in attending meet-
ings and in all things, and seeking for the
Holy Spirit, bore a good testimony of
Joseph the Prophet.
	The secretary, Sister E. B. Wells, ex-
plained concerning the Woman's Building,
the ten cent fund and the annual dues and
some other practical matters, and spoke of
the magnitude of the Relief Society, its
marvelous growth and called it the best
woman's organization in the world.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams, the Building
Fund treasurer, bore her testimony and
made some excellent remarks, said she ap-
preciated and enjoyed the work of the
Relief Society.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt rejoiced in the
grand work we were doing, appreciated its
benefits to the world. Said it had been one
of our ambitions to build this house now
talked of, thought it would not take long
money would be sure to come in, we could
soon get what we needed. "Sister Smith

(Column 2)
wants the house finished next year so we
can celebrate her birthday there, and it will
be sixty years since the Relief Society was
organized. "I believe it can be done if we
will all have faith and persevere in our 
efforts.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, told us of the South and that the
early fruit had all been killed for this year.
Made powerful remarks in regard to teach-
ing our children and the consequences of
neglecting their moral and spiritual educa-
tion, we have good institutions for our chil-
dren.
	President Richards adjourned the confer-
ence until some time in June, notice to be
given later. Singing, "The Spirit of God."
Benediction by Sister E. B. Wells.
		E. B. Wells, General Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.										107


108 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION,

	On the 18th of March, at2 p. m., the peo-
ple of Syracuse met in the ward meeting
house and held their annual meeting in 
commemoration of the first Relief Society
organized, President M. A. Walker presiding.
The choir sang the opening hymn. After
invocation by Brother Joseph Bodily, Presi-
dent M. A. Walker made appropriate re-
marks concerning Relief Society work. The
program was very interesting, consisting
of speeches, songs, recitations and readings. 
	The singing was inspiring and sweet. 
Bishop Cook spoke appropriately on the
work of the Relief Society. 
	After the program the time was occupied
by brethren and sisters who desired to speak,
and the meeting was characterized through-
out by that congenial and blessed spirit that
draws souls together in a feeling of oneness
and love.
	One of our number, however, was greatly
missed, our aged and beloved sister, Nancy
S. Kerr, who departed this life on Saturday,
March 16, at the age of eighty-eight years.
The funeral was held here on Sunday 
afternoon, and on Monday the 18th she was
taken to Ogden and services were held in
the Third Ward meeting house, she having
resided in that ward until she moved with
her daughter and family to Syracuse three
years ago. She was buried by the side of
her husband in the Ogden cemetery. Sister
Kerr was personally acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph Smith and was present when
the first Relief Society was organized. She
has been a faithful member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and has by
her affectionate pleasant nature endeared
herself to all who knew her.
				MARIA COOK, Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
PASSED TO THE GREAT BEYOND.

Mrs. Annie Barlow, the wife of Patriarch Israel
Barlow of Wood’s Cross, died April 26, 1901, of
jaundice and liver trouble, after an illness of many
weeks. She was born in England August 8, 1843,
and was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, while in her teens, and came to
the valley of the mountains, shortly after, crossing
the plains in wagons with ox teams, and passed
through manv trials of early pioneer life.
She became acquainted with Israel Barlow, and
they were married on April 26,1863. She
therefore died on the anniversary of her thirty-
eighth wedding day.
She was a loving and faithful wife and devoted
mother and leaves a husband and ten children,
four sons and six daughters to mourn her departure,
all of whom are married but one daughter and two
sons, one son being on amission at the time of her
death.

[Column 2]
The sisters of the Relief Society feel it a great
loss, for she was an honest, energetic, faithful
president and it will be hard to fill her place.
The funeral services were held at the West Ward
meeting house, Monday, April 29, 1901. The
house was beautifully decorated in white with
potted flovers fora background. The floral tributes
were many and beautiful.
The speakers were Brothers C. R. Jones, J.
Argyle, Sr., Patriarchs Edward Powel and Tole-
man, President Hyrum Grant and Bishop L. M.
Grant. They all spoke highly of our beloved sister
and president and encouraged her children to fol-
low in her footsteps, be faithful and true to their
covenants,and they would meet their mother again.
JOSEPHINE C. WOOD, Sec.

A PIONEER WOMAN.
Sister Ann Van Wagoner Nebeker was born in
Vompton, New Jersey, March 28, 1817. She
lived in Vompton twenty years, then moved to
Bergen, N. J., where she was married to John
Havens and had three children. While there she
was converted to the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and was baptized March 13,
1844. In 1845 she went to Nauvoo and shortly
after her husband died.
In 1840 she left Bergen for Utah. On the way
she was married to Henry Nebeker and came the
remainder of the journey with him, arriving in
Salt Lake City in the autumn of 1847. In 1857
they moved to Payson, where she has lived most
of the time.
Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has called
from our midst our dear sister, Ann Van Wagoner
Nebeker, and
Whereas, We the members of the Relief Soci-
ety have been called to mourn the loss of a faith-
ful member, a patient, loving and self-sacrificing 
woman, a firm friend and a true Latter-day Saint,
therefore be it,
Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt sym
pathy to the bereaved family who mourn her loss.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family, one published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT and one placed on the record
of the Relief Society.
ELIZA ALISPACH, Sec.

ANNIE CHRISTINA ZUNDEL. 
Sister Annie Christina Zundel was born July 31,
1811, at Reibach, Oberent, Denburg, Hessen,
Darmstadt, Germany. She was the daughter of
John and Margaret Latenshlager. She came to
America about the year 1830, located in Pennsyl.
vania, was married to John Zundel in 1831, em-
braced the Gospel in the year 1840, and was bap-
tized in Nauvoo. She also received her endow-
ments there, she. with her husband being so
privileged, to be one of the first eight couples
chosen to have their endowments in the Nauvoo
Temple.
She was a benevolent woman who loved to give
to those that were in need. She left Nauvoo with
the Saints at the time of the expulsion. She
traveled with the Saints and shared in their perse-
cutions. Soon after leaving Nauvoo her health
failed. During her travels she laid four of her
young children to rest, some of them by the road-
side. In 1850 she and her husband gave their
property, consisting of one wagon, two yoke of
cattle and some monev for the emigration, and
they stayed and worked for another team.
She came to Utah in 1852, her husband was sick
the entire journey. They came to Salt Lake City
in September and he passed behind the veil in
November, leaving her with a family of eight
children, the eldest being eighteen years of age
and the youngest six months.
She came to Payson at the time of the move in
1858, where she has lived since. She always loved
to converse on the principles of the Gospel. She
was ever true and faithful to the gospel of our
Lord and Savior, and is now gone to rest. She
passed away on the 7th of February, 1901, being
89 years, 6 months and 7 days old.

RESOLUTION OF RESPECT.

Resolved, That we cherish her memory and
that a copy of these resolutions be placed on our
record and one sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication, also one sent to the family.

“Methinks I see the book opened,
And an angel the pages turn o’er,
Till he comes to her name, when he pauses—
“Sainted woman thou’lt sorrow no more.
Thy life has been weighed in the balance,
Which tipped at the mark pure gold,
By thy name is recorded ‘most worthy,’
Enter into the joys of the Lord.”

ELIZA ALISPACH, Sec.


[Column 1]
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in His infinite
love and mercy to call home our beloved sister,
Rosina Crook, who was born 1847, in Oberbruder,
Wurtenberg, Germany. She joined the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the year 1893,
and emigrated to Utah in 1896. She was married
to Joseph Crook, who died fifteen months later.
She had been ill ever since and suffered very
patiently till death released her, the 17th of Janu-
ary, 1901. She died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint. Her friends will miss her, still
to know that her sufferings are passed, became a
comfort to those who loved her, and that she is
now enjoying sweet rest.
				ANNIE JONES,
				ROSINE BOKI,
				ELIZABETH THURBER.
MARIA TAYLOR MCRAE.
	Maria Taylor McRae, daughter of Geo. E. and
Annie Wicks Taylor, born January 17, 1845, at
Spilsby, Lincolnshire, England, died April 19,
1901, with catarrh of the bowels, a patient suffer-
er for nearly four years.
	She first heard the Gospel as taught by the
Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, when four years old and eagerly awaited
the arrival of her eighth birthday to be baptized.
She, in company with her mother and Sister
Martha Little, now president of the Relief Society
in Haden, Idaho, emigrated to America in 1854,
remained in St. Louis a year and then walked
most of the way to Salt Lake City without a mur-
mur, only too glad to get to Zion.
	In 1862 she married Joseph McRae, son of the
late Bishop Alex McRae, and their life since has
been devoted to pioneer work. They lived in Salt
Lake City through the hard times, then went to
Charleston, Wasatch Co., where after five years
struggle in a new country, and they were prosper-
ing financially and had established a good home,
when the call came from President Brigham
Young to prepare for a mission to the South.
	Taking their lives in their hands and trusting in
God, they went to an unexplored wilderness where
the Indian reigned supreme. No pen can de-
scribe the hardships encountered or trials endured.
The company under the leadership of D. W. Jones
arrived in the Salt River valley in the spring of
1877, where they took out the first canal and
planted trees. In the fall the company divided
part of them (in whose company was Sister McRae
with Brother P. C. Merrill as leader) wended their
way to San Pedro valley, stopping on the way for
a few days at Tuscon. While there they heard
of the death of President Brigham Young. Ar-
riving at San Pedro they built a fort for protec-
tion from the savages, but as Sister McRae often
said they were not sent there to be murdered by
Indians.
	During the rainy season sickness set in until
one was scarcely able to wait on another. Apostle
Erastus Snow and party arrived in October and
found them in this condition. Apostle Snow as he
preached to a congregation mostly in beds, shed
tears and blessed the people and said the land
would yet be peopled with Saints from one end of
the valley to the other, which blessing in part is
yet to be realized, Sister McRae had strong be-
lief in this promise, and although her home has
been for the last eight years in the Gila valley, she
has expressed a desire many times to end her days
at St. David.
	Her constant desire for an education urged her
to gather the children of the colony around her,
and impart into them, free of charge, such knowl-
edge as she could give them. “All her lifetime she
longed to be obtaining knowledge and information,
and while in the home of Mrs. E. B. Wells, where
she lived three years, she manifested an intense
desire to acquire learning from books and from
obseivation, and the association of the good sisters
who frequently visited Mrs. Wells’ home. Mrs.
Wells’ little girls were very fond of her and looked
upon her as a dear friend, almost a sister. Maria
was then very young, only fourteen years of age,
when she became a member of the family, and
she endeared herself to all with whom she became
acquainted. She is deserving of the highest
tribute of praise and commendation for her nobili-
ty of character and her unflinching integrity to
the truth.”
	She leaves a husband and eight children, six
sons and two daughters, and ten grandchildren to
mourn her loss, A loving, tender and wise mother,
a devoted wife and wise counselor to her husband
and a genuine friend, hospitable in the home and
full of charity for all who were in need.
RESOLUTIONS.
	At the regular monthly meeting of the officers

[Column 2]
of the St. Joseph Stake Relief Society, the follow-
ing resolutions were adopted by unanimous vote:
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has called our
beloved sister, Maria McRae, from our midst, who
was a member of the Stake Board of our Relief
Society, a faithful worker, a kind and loving
mother and a friend to all. Therefore be it
	Resolved, That we the members of the St.
Joseph Stake Relief Society do hereby express our
sympathy to her bereaved husband and family,
and we also desire to emulate her noble examples.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be placed on
the record of the St. Joseph Relief Society, a copy
sent to the bereaved family, also one sent to the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

 		     MARICOPA STAKE.

	The Relief Society quarterly conference
was held in the Stake Tabernacle, March
21, 1901, Stake President Mabel A. Hakes
presiding. All the Stake officers were
present, except our treasurer, who has had
the misfortune to fall and break her arm.
	Five out of six wards were well represen-
ted with both officers and members. A
good spirit pervaded, all seemed ready and
willing to lend a helping hand with their
means to help the poor and needy, also to
assist those placed over them in rolling on
this great work. Though last year was
very dry considerable grain has been stored
away for time of need by being sealed air-
tight. The insects are very bad in this hot
climate. There are better prospects this
year, we all want to do much more in saving
grain, also beans, many fruits of all kinds,
or anything that can be saved in this way
The responsibility of parents, the drawing
of our young people around us, that we may
have an influence with the wayward, were
the principle subjects treated upon. Much
good instruction was given by Stake Presi-
dent R. H. Hakes and others.
	Meeting adjourned for three months, all
feeling this had been the best conference we
had ever had.
			Annie E. Fuller, Sec.

		UINTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the 25th conference of the
Relief Society of the Uintah Stake, held
April 13, 1901, President Sarah Pope pre-
siding.
	Singing, “Guide us, O Thou Great.
Jehovah.”Prayer by President Sarah
Pope. Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sin-
cere desire.” Roll called. Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.
	Bishop John N. Davis spoke at some
length on the good that is accomplished by
the sisters of the Relief Society.
	Sister Althura Collett was pleased to be
numbered among the sisters of the Relief
Society. Where are the sisters of this Stake
that there are not more at conference?
Thought all should strive to come.
	Sister Abigail Oaks said there were a
great many more temptations placed before
the young people now than when she was
a girl. We should teach our children the
beauties of being virtuous.
	Counselor A. K. Bartlett thought there
ought to be more at conference this morn-
ing. We should pray for wisdom to be
able to counsel our sons and daughters
right, that they may become noble men
and women in Zion. It behooves each and
every one to strive with all his might to
help our young people in the straight and
narrow way.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
Singing, “Where the voice of friendship’s
[column 2]
heard.” Benediction by Bishop John N.
Davis.
	Afternoon session opened with singing,
“Now let us rejoice.” Prayer by Counselor
A. K. Bartlett. Singing, “O ye mountains
high.”
	Brother James Hacking said he realized
in part the responsibilities and burdens rest-
ing upon the mothers in Israel. It is
marvelous to think of the labor performed
by the Relief Society sisters. Brother Jos.
H. Gardner always loved to listen to the
remarks of the sisters. Thought the sisters
of the Latter-day Saints were more blessed
than any women upon the face of the earth.
	Sister Davis bore her testimony to the
truthfulness of the Gospel and related some
of her experiences in the Church.
	The statistical and financial report was
read and the general and local authorities
were sustained.
	President Sarah Pope bore a faithful
testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
	Sister C. A. Stringham said belief alone
could not save us, we should not grow
weary in well doing.
	Sisters Minnie Davis and America Orser
spoke a few words in regard to to the Re-
lief Society work.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.” Benediction by
Brother James Hacking.
			Addie Longhurst, Sec.

		ALPINE STAKE.

	The first quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held in
the meeting house at American Fork, on
Friday, April 26, 1901, President Jemima
Durrant presiding. On the stand were
President Jane S. Richards, Sister Julia P.
M. Farnsworth and Rebecca Standring, all
of the General Board. The officers of the
Alpine Stake were all present and all the
presidents of the different wards.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Come,
come, ye Saints.” Prayer by Emma J.
Featherstone. Singing, “Redeemer of
Israel.”
	The secretary read a report taken at the
General Conference of the Relief Society.
	President Jemima Durrant made some
opening remarks. Said her mission had
hitherto been with the young ladies, but
was assured that now the Lord would bless
her in her present duties and calling. Vice-
President Martha Webb reported American
Fork Society. Pleasant Grove was re-
ported by President Sarah Foutz; Linden
by President Martha Woolley. President
Rebecca Standring was always proud to re-
port Lehi. They have 302 members and
more joining, all willing to work in this
great cause. They paid their ten cent fund,
they also have 1,687 bushels of wheat, hold
their meetings every two weeks, and some-
times take their meetings to the scattered
Saints. Prayed that all might be prepared
to give a righteous account.
	President Jane S. Richards said she was
pleased to be with us today and to see so
many present. Hoped the sisters would be
paid for coming, for it is the Lord’s work
we are engaged in and we agreed to come
and do it. We are here to stay and the
Lord has a care over us. He has made the
country and everything beautiful and if we
have a work assigned us we should try to
do it in the best possible manner. One of
the greatest things in the world is to have
children and to raise them in the best pos-


[Column 1]
sible manner, and we must ask the Lord
daily what we should do to accomplish
this and to keep them from going astray.
There is much required of those who pre-
side and let us sustain them, and do all we
can to help each other. Let us have all
the union that we can and all the love that
we can. The Savior lived among the poor
and lowly. She believed He had a great
respect for the poor. We are all on the
Lord’s side. And let us live so that we
may belong to that tried people who will
get their reward hereafter. Advised the
sisters to keep correct reports, referred to
President Brigham Young who said the
women had been slighted, their work had
not been recorded, and one month before
his death he established quarterly confer-
ences that the women might be represented.
Urged that every member pay ten cents
a year for the general fund, the Lord gives
us all we have, and we should not feel this
a hardship, but give it willingly. 
	Singing, “I need Thee every hour.”
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth bore testi-
mony to the remarks of the previous speak-
ers. She was proud of the Relief Society.
Said women made but little advancement
in the world until the Prophet Joseph
Smith organized the Relief Society.
Thought the reports given were very
creditable, and would be very glad when
our General Building was completed, so
that the sisters could have the use of it.
Spoke of her mother’s motto, which was
“Trust in God and fear no evil.”
	Singing. “How firm a foundation.”
Benediction by Sister Harriet Jacobs.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 o’clock.
Meeting opened by singing, “Joy to the
world, the Lord will come.” Prayer by
Brother Wm. R. Webb. The choir sang
an anthem, “Heavenly Father, hear our
prayer.”
	Cedar Fort Relief Society was reported
by President Elizabeth Berry; Alpine, by
President Sarah Marsh, and Manila by
President Isadora Beck. The reports were
quite encouraging. The officers and teach-
ers all seemed alive to their duties and will-
ing to take hold of any work.	Nearly all
the Wards have granaries with a consider-
able amount of grain. Realized that
the Relief Society is just the place for
women to work out their salvation and
learn to rear their children to serve the
Lord.
	President Jane S. Richards felt honored
to see the brethren come to meeting to help
the sisters. Thought we were a blest peo-
ple, we enjoy each other’s society, and one
of the best things that ever happened to us
is to be organized in this society. Wished
the sisters would visit those who are tardy
and hold meetings with them.	Desired all
the sisters to be alive to their duties, and
no one should be neglected. Said she used to
visit twenty-five branches every year, visit-
ing will keep them alive. Sister Eliza R.
Snow used to be very energetic in visiting.
The Lord will assist us in our duties. He
will give us His spirit to aid and improve

[Column 2]
us. Let us respect the authorities over us,
and if we have trouble, settle it without
going to the teachers. Let us rather go to
the Lord, and He will help us if we are
humble before Him.
	Singing, “Only remembered by what I
have done.”
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth said as 
the home is incomplete without the mother,
so the Relief Society is not perfect without
the brethren. She was proud to know the
pioneer men and women of this country.
Always had an interest in Relief Society
work, for it was established by the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Spoke of the General
Building to be erected for the use of the
sisters. Thought we had one of the finest
sites in Salt Lake City.
	Brother Geo. Cunningham encouraged
the sisters in their work of relieving suffer-
ing humanity. Referred to the widow
who cast in two mites. It is the little
things that count, but these sisters are
doing a great work.
	Sister Harriet Jacobs said the Lord was
always willing to bless His children. We
have had a feast today in answer to prayer-
If we could realize our true position we
would never willingly stay away from
meeting. The Lord blesses his people.
We want our sons and daughters to go
forth and help to spread the Gospel. Spoke
of the blessing of paying tithing and desired
to stimulate the sisters to do their duty.
	Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
	Sister Annie S. Hindley said we are
God’s children and it is necessary that we
have trials. We must make sacrifices if we
expect to receive the blessings. Let us be
humble before the Lord, and do all the good
we can.
	Sister Zina Chipman was pleased to be
numbered with the Relief Society, and de-
sired to perform every duty required of her.
	Sister Laura Cutler said we had a great
work, not only in our own households, but
in the community where we live. Let us
do something to bless mankind and to im-
prove ourselves.
	President Stephen L. Chipman said we
form good resolutions in these meetings,
but when we go away we are apt to forget
them. It is necessary for us to be work-
ing constantly to keep us in line. When
we have responsible positions we become
brightened.
	President Jas H. Clark said here may be
found the spiritual backbone of the com-
munity. I believe the sisters a great in-
fluence in the Church, and in the progress
of the work of the Lord. “Sisters, you are
acknowledged of God. Your responsibili-
ties are no less than those of the brethren
and are no less recorded in heaven.”
	Brother Wm. Webb felt to congratulate
the sisters on the good advice and instruc-
tion they had received. We need to labor
as a unit in these things. Let us wake up
and do our duty and attend our meetings.
	President Jemima Durrant made some
closing remarks. Felt grateful to the
speakers, and also to the “Old Folks’

[Column 3]
Choir,” who had attended and cheered us
with sweet music. 
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us with Thy
blessing.” Benediction by Brother Wm.
Grant. Conference adjourned for three
months.
	EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.

WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
much as possible for you money.						TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
Oregon Short Line
	Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . . . .

Se that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the best

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles,		D. E. Burley,
	Gen Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T.A.


Errata:—We regret that in the minutes
of the anniversary celebration of the Sixth
Ward this city, last issue of the paper, there
is an error in the name of the counselor in
the Relief Society, Sister Ellen R. Watson,
and the misprint makes the name West, in-
stead of her real name, Watson.
