Vol. 29 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1900. No. 15


CONTENTS.
Greeting to the World..........Lorenzo Snow		65
R. S. Report........................................			66
Birthday Party.....................................			66
Suffrage Bazar Notes........................			66
An Allegory...............Susa Young Gates		67
Relief Society Annual Reports......E. B Wells	67
Symposium. The 19th and 20th Centuries....		68
What Hath the Century Wrought?.Homespun	70
A Woman Missionary.......Mrs. Addison Pratt	71
Notes and News.................................			62
EDITORIAL—The New Year and New Century	68
POETRY—The Passing of the Century.R.M. Fox	65
	Santa Claus on a Pullman Car.......A. J. C	77
	The Generations..........Lydia D. Alder		72


[Column 1]
THE PASSING OF THE CENTURY.

Toll, bells toll, toll, bells toll,
A century is passing away,
With its follies and woes, 
Its horrors and throes;
So swiftly ’tis passing,
Not peacefully passing.
But striving with bloodshed and sin.

Toll, toll, toll, sadly toll;
For its great contentions and wars,
For the heroes they’ve slain
Upon land and on main,
For women that are weeping,
Their lone vigil keeping—
For loved ones who never return.

Toll, toll, mournfully toll,
For the needless hunger and cold,
For those who have perished
Unloved and uncherished,
For those who were driven,
Though bravely they’d striven,
To sell their own bodies for bread.

Toll, toll, solemnly toll.
For the crime of the century dire,
For the sorrow and shame,
That shall ever remain;
For the cry that’s ascending—
Forever ascending
To the throne of the great I Am.

Toll, toll, remorsefully toll;
'Tis the blood of the martyrs so true—
Of prophets rejected,
Who were called and elected,
To emblazon the way,
With a luminous ray,
Direct from the courts above.
		*	*	*

Toll, toll, tenderly toll;
It is but a memory now:
Let the soft robe of charity,
That mantle of rarity.
Encircle the bier;
For do we not hear?
’Twas truly a wonderful age!

Toll, toll, cheerfully toll,
Good works in part may atone;
'Tis its own bereavement.
Though there be no retrievement.
The world has grown better,
Full many a fetter
Has been loosed in the century past

Toll, toll, joyously toll;
Real greatness will always remain—
For its wondrous advancement,
'Twas an age of enchantment;
Its way has been fraught,
With the marvels God wrought,
In sight of the children of men.

Toll, toll, toll, proudly toll;
As swift as the wind we go,
For the science and arts,
And the o’erflowing marts,
For the messages speeding,
Long distance unheeding,
For speech flashing over the wire.

[Column 2]
Toll, toll, wond’ringly toll!
For the electrical current unseen;
Which simply astounds us,
Its limits are boundless,
Its magical power
Is a magnificent dow’r,
To bequeathe to ages to come.

Toll, toll, gratefully toll!
For the age of liberty’s dawning,
Shall cast its bright beam
Adown Time’s running stream,
Until freedom shall reign, 
Over mountain and plain,
And the rivers join in the glad song.

Toll, toll, toll, loudly toll!
The world’s deliverance is nigh;
The angels of wrath,
Are sweeping the path,
The scourges and wonders.
The tempests and thunders
Are proclaiming “Prepare ye the way."

Toll, toll, toll yet again!
For who shall His coming abide?
In His glory resplendent,
With a host of attendants, 
He is coming again.
O’er the whole earth to reign,
And to Him shall all nations bow.
				RUTH M. FOX.


[Column 1]
GREETING TO THE WORLD.
BY PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW.
	A new century dawns upon the world
today. The hundred years just completed
were the most momentous in the history of
man upon this planet. It would be impos-
sible in a hundred days to make even a brief
summary of the notable events, the mar-
velous developments, the grand achieve-
ments and the beneficial inventions and
discoveries, which mark the progress of the
ten decades now left behind in the ceaseless
march of humanity. The very mention of
the nineteenth century suggests advance-
ment, improvement, liberty and light.
Happy are we to have lived amidst its
wonders and shared in the riches of its
treasures of intelligence.
	The lessons of the past century should
have prepared us for the duties and glories
of the opening era. It ought to be the age
of peace, of greater progress, of the univer-
sal adoption of the golden rule. The bar-
barism of the past should be buried. War
with its horrors should be but a memory.
The aim of nations should be fraternity and
mutual greatness. The welfare of human-
ity should be studied instead of the enrich-
ment of a race or the extension of an em-
pire. Awake, ye monarchs of the earth and
rulers among nations, and gaze upon the
scene on which the early rays of the rising
Millennial day gild the morn of the twen-
tieth century! The power is in your hands
to pave the way for the coming King of
Kings, whose dominion will be over all the
earth. Disband your armies, turn your
weapons of strife into implements of indus-
try; take the yoke from the necks of the
people; arbitrate your disputes; meet in
royal congress, and plan for union instead of
conquest, for the banishment of poverty,
for the uplifting of the masses, and for the
health, wealth enlightenment and happiness
of all tribes and peoples and nations. Then
shall the twentieth century be to you the

[Column 2]
glory of your lives and the lustre of your
crowns, and posterity shall sing your
praises, while the Eternal One shall place
you on high among the mighty.
	Ye toiling millions, who, in the sweat of
your faces earn your daily bread, look up
and greet the power from above which
shall lift you from bondage! The day of
your redemption draweth nigh. Cease to
waste your wages in that which helps to
keep you in want. Regard not wealth as
your enemy and your employers as your
oppressors. Seek for the union of capital
and labor. Be provident when in prosper-
ity. Do not became a prey to designing
men who seek to stir up strife for their own
selfish ends. Strive for your rights by law-
ful means, and desist from violence and de-
struction. Anarchism and lawlessness are
your deadly foes. Dissipation and vice are
chains that bind you to slavery. Freedom
is coming for you, its light approaches as
the century dawns.
	Men and women of wealth, use your
riches to give employment to the laborer!
Take the idle from the crowded centers of
population and place them on the untilled
areas that await the hand of industry. Un-
lock your vaults, unloose your purses, and
embark in enterprises that will give work to
the unemployed, and relieve the wretched-
ness that leads to the vice and crime which
curse your great cities, and that poison the
moral atmosphere around you. Make
others happy, and you will be happy your-
selves.
	As a servant of God I bear witness to the
revelation of his will in the nineteenth cen- 
tury. It came by His own voice from the
heavens, by the personal manifestation of
His Son and by the manifestation of holy
angels. He commands all people every-
where to repent, to turn from their evil
ways and unrighteous desires, to be baptized
for the remission of their sins, that they
may receive the Holy Ghost and come into
communion with Him. He has commenced
the work of redemption spoken of by the
holy prophets, sages and seers of all the
ages and all the races of mankind. He
will assuredly accomplish His work and the
twentieth century will mark its advance-
ment towards the great consummation.
Every unfoldment of the nineteenth century
in science, in art, in mechanism, in music,
in literature, in poetic fancy, in philosophi-
cal thought was prompted by His Spirit
which before long will be poured out upon
all flesh that will receive it. He is the
Father of us all and he desires to save and
exalt us all.
	In the eighty-seventh year of my age on
earth, I feel full of earnest desire for the
benefit of humanity. I wish all a happy
New Year. I hope and look for grand
events to occur in the twentieth century.
At its auspicious dawn I lift my hands and
invoke the blessing of heaven upon the in-
habitants of the earth. May the sunshine
from above smile upon you. May the
treasures of the ground and the fruits of the
soil be brought forth freely for your good.
May the light of truth chase darkness from
your souls. May righteousness increase and


iniquity diminish as the years of the cent[--]
roll on. May justice triumph and corrup-
tion be stamped out. And may virtue and
chastity and honor prevail until evil shall
be overcome and the earth shall be cleansed
from wickedness. Let these sentiments, as
the voice of the “Mormons” in the moun-
tains of Utah, go forth to the whole world,
and let the people know that our wish and
our mission are for the blessing and salva-
tion of the entire human race. May the
twentieth century prove the happiest as it
will be the grandest of all the ages of time,
and may God be glorified in the victory that
is coming over sin and sorrow and misery
and death. Peace be unto you all!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake convened in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall at 10
a. m., Dec. 1, 1900. Officers present on
the stand were Counselors Annie T. Hyde
and Clara C Cannon, Presidents B. W.
Smith, S. J. Cannon, M. W. Wilcox, E. J.
Stevenson, J. C. Howe. President Horne
absent, not very well.
	Meeting called to order by Counselor
Hyde. Opened by singing “Our God we
raise to Thee.” Prayer by Counselor Clara
C. Cannon. Singing, “Where the voice of
friendship’s heard.”
	The roll was called, a good representation
being present. Minutes of conference held
Sep. 8, read and approved.
	The presidents were then called upon for
reports, especially regarding the building
fund. All the wards were reported that had
a representative present, and all expressed a
willingness to do whatever was required of
them. Quite a number of the societies have
a reserve fund and all felt the need of a
central building and were more than willing
to work and use every means to accomplish
this end.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke on the same
subject. She felt sure that the amount
could be raised to build a comfortable build-
ing. Asked all the societies to please send
in the amount they felt it possible for
them to donate.
	Sister Howe felt that the sisters who had
reported had exhibited a spirit of humility
and obedience. Gave a very interesting
account of her work in the Relief Society
from its first organization in this city. It is
usually the poor that help the poor, and
those who are wealthy are not so liberal. “I
have been promised to live to see this new
building dedicated and I am enthusiastic
over it, and hope we will work energetically
to accomplish the good work.”
	Meeting adjourned till 2 p. m. Closed
by singing “Come let us anew.” Benedic-
tion by Sister Augusta W. Grant.
	Afternoon session. President Horne
being unable to attend Counselor Annie T.
Hyde presided assisted by Clara C. Cannon.
	Meeting opened by singing “Arise, O
glorious Zion.” Prayer by Sister Elizabeth
Webb. Singing, “Let those who would be
Saints indeed.” Minutes of the previous
conference of September 8, 1900, were read
and accepted.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson said she felt
it is good to be a Saint. Thought our chil-
dren had great privileges, how careful we
should be as mothers, that our children may
never have to suffer for our evil acts.
Thanked the Lord for inspiring Joseph

[Column 2]
Smith to organize this society. Spoke of
the perseverance of the sisters in the differ-
ent wards in building halls and granaries,
helping the poor and many other things.
Spoke of the unity that existed among the
sisters and thought we should be united in
building this new central building. Hoped
the presidents and officers of the society
would be inspired to know how to accumu-
late means to erect it.
	Sister Annie L. Johnson began by reading
from the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
45th chapter. She was for thirty years an
invalid. There are three things to be
understood: abdominal breathing, relax-
ation and a thorough knowledge of hygiene
and we can overcome disease. She believed
in simple remedies. If we gain knowledge
pertaining to ourselves we can overcome
every disease. Realized we should believe
intensely when we pray. President Snow
had told her to visit the different wards and
teach the sisters how to care for their
bodies, said she would be pleased to have
any one visit her, and would talk with them
on these subjects.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon said she felt pleased
with the spirit made manifest by the presi-
dents in the reports this morning. Read an
extract from the third Relief Society meet-
ing held April 28, 1842. President Joseph
Smith gave the Relief Society a lecture
and told the sisters that they would be able
to heal the sick and gave them special
instructions. Referred to 1 Cor. 12th chap-
ter. He spoke of the jealousies among the
officers. Said the signs spoken of by Christ
in healing the sick, etc., applied as well to
the sisters as the brethren. There is no sin
in the women laying on hands for the heal-
ing of the sick, said there were aspiring
men, and this society would be troubled in
the same way. Exhorted the sisters to sus-
tain their husbands and to put down ini-
quity. Said “You cannot go too fast when
in the path of virtue. This is a charitable
society, it is natural for women to be inter-
ested in such work. If you are pure you
can come into the presence of God. Don’t
think yourselves more religious than others.
Let your hearts be enlarged towards others.
You will be instructed by the priesthood
from time to time. I now turn the keys for
woman. Don’t envy the show and finery
of others, for they are fleeting. Do not in-
dulge too much in the gift of tongues.”
Said the sick should be nourished with mild
herbs, and there is no one better qualified to
do this than the sisters.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said she was
in the lodge room above the brick store in
Nauvoo when President Smith gave these
instructions.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze said she needed to
come to the Relief Society to get the spirit
of the meeting. She knew the spirit of the
Lord was with them in the society. She
knew the women of the world had felt the
spirit of women’s organizations ever since
Joseph Smith first organized this society.
Said she believed we should use more of
our blessed oil, the Lord knew what was
good for us. Said she thought women
should claim all the blessings due to them,
believed there was more happiness in the
world than sorrow. Heard President Snow
said we should aim to live a hundred years.
Believed all scourges are the fulfilling of
prophecy.
	Annie T. Hyde said we should all
exercise faith for President Horne. Said
the new nurse course numbered 42. Said let
us try to keep the love of God in our hearts. 

[Column 2]
	President S. J. Cannon made some
practical remarks about the Woman’s
Building and encouraged the sisters in
striving to do their part.
	Sister Hyde said the conference would
now be adjourned for three months. In
four weeks would be the officers meeting,
and in two weeks the Retrenchment meeting.
	Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet.” Benediction by Julia S.
Woolley.
		J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec. pro tem.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.
Victor, Idaho, October 17, 1900.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	On September 22nd the members of the
Relief Society of Raymond Ward, with
some of the brethren, met at the ward meet-
ing house in the capacity of a surprise on
Sister Telitha Avery, first vice-president of
the association, who had just reached
the 76th milestone in life. She has always
taken an active part in religious affairs, was
one of the members of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo and has acted as president in some
of the wards in Utah. A nice program was
carried out, every number being worthy of
special mention. Two little girls, great
granddaughters of Sister Avery, sang very
nicely, and Sister Margaret Rice, seventy-
one years of age, sang sweetly a Nauvoo
hymn.
	After the program a nice lunch was par-
taken of and all joined in wishing the lady
many happy returns of the day.
	Our Relief Society is progressing nicely.
We have purchased a lot on which to build
a meeting house and granary in the near
future.
A.


SUFFRAGE BAZAR NOTES.
	ONE of the booths at the recent Suffrage
Bazar, on the right of the platform, dec-
orated with the national colors attracted
much interest. It was that of the en-
franchised states. Colorado sent a par-
ticularly fine exhibit. It included a large
doll dressed in white by the Governor's
wife, pressed Rocky Mountain wild
flowers, ornamental china plates, glass
tumblers with graceful figu[-]es of cowboys
and Indians upon them (every cowboy, we
were told, was supposed to represent
Teddy) pictures of berries burnt on yucca
bark and painted on orange wood, views of
the Holy Cross Mountain and other lands[-]
	THE doll presented by the wife of Capt
Hunt, Governor-elect of Idaho, was unique
among the many gubernatorial dolls of the
Bazar. Her name was "Miss Idaho." She
was dressed by a Sioux Indian woman; she
wore moccasins and a red dress plentifully
adorned with wampum, and her hair was
from the scalp of a Black Crow Indian.
Idaho also sent arrow heads, petrified
wood, a cane of polished onyx tipped with
silver, penholders and buttonhooks with
handles of agate, made in the Idaho peni-
tentiary, mineral specimens, souvenir spoons
hand painted china plates, a beautiful calf-
skin baby blanket, a figure representing a
Coeur de Alene miner with his pick, a
saddle blanket taken from the Sioux chief
"Snow on the Hill," moccasins that be-
longed to the Sioux chief, "Charlie Black
Horse," and other curiosities.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SANTA CLAUS ON A PULLMAN CAR.

It is New Year’s Eve, but let me tell
	What happened, strange but true,
To travelers on a flying train
	As they sped the darkness through.

It was Christmas Eve upon the train
	As well as in crowded town,
And through the windows we could see
	The drenching rain come down.
And while we sped as a bird might fly,
	Safe there in the warmth and light,
An old man spoke. “I think the rain
	Will change into snow tonight;
And ’twill be more like Christmas time
	If we get there covered with snow.”
And the old man laughed and a smile went
		round 
	For the heart still all aglow.

There sat another, but stern of look,
	You could tell no thought had he
Of a home ahead, or a happy past
	Around the Christmas tree;
For he scanned and scowled o’er columns long
	Of the market’s fall and rise,
With now and then impatient sniffs,
	Or deep drawn, troubled sighs.

Before him sat a mother pale
	And a restless boy of four,
Who turned in his seat and upon his knees
	Looked the stern man o’er and o’er
In silence, but so deep and long
	The man looked up to see
A chubby face and wondering eyes,
	Grave, earnest as, eyes could be.

“Has you any boys like me?” he asked.
	“No!” he answered, surlily.
“Maybe you’ve got little girls, I guess?”
	“No boy, don’t bother me.”
But he could not read, for the restless boy
	Whispered out, in his mother’s ear—
“I’m bein’ still—but that poor man—”
	“Sit down and don’t talk, my dear.”

He sat awhile, then his head turned back
	As a bird in its cage will do;
Gazed earnestly, slipped around, leaned o’er:
	“I am so sorry for you;
We’re going to grandpa’s to live;
	Papa is dead, and you see
I’m all mama’s got; aint you sorry,
	Mister, for mama and me?”

But we never knew what answer
	The stern man might have made,
For some one called—“Just look outside!”
	All the earth in white was laid.
The pale young mother rose with her boy
	It was time for him to sleep,
But I knew she longed to be alone
	Her burning tears to weep.

But ’twas not long ere the little hands
	Stole gently, and there outside—
To the curtain’s fringes, in open view,
	His little stocking he tied.
And O, what a look and startled thought
	Shone out in every face;
Till some cynic said “A Pullman car
	For that’s a poor kind of place.”

But a woman answered: “I don’t know—”
	And she opened her satchel wide,
Candies and cakes and a pretty knife—
	She laid them side by side;
And as the impulse ran through the car
	Each took a sudden joy
In giving out from the gifts they bore
	To the widowed mother’s boy.

The stern man folded a golden coin
	In paper and softly said:
“God bless the child, he has waked to life
	Memories that seemed dead.
I must hear his little voice again,
	I would like to know his name,
For long ago, I have known such eyes—
	Their color, and look, the same.”

The little stocking never could hold
	The gifts of women and men;
But silken handkerchiefs came forth
	And did a duty then;
The word had passed all through the train
	And passengers came in,
With smiles and gifts, to see the sight,
		[-]ad strangers been.

[Column 2]
Why was it that each one would pause
	To list the sleeper’s breath—
The little one around whose lot
	Love rose in shades of death?
And if a sigh, or oft a tear,
	Before that curtain fell,
’Twere love’s and pity’s offering,
	Sweeter than words could tell,

The early morn waked the little lad,
	And who were there but smiled—
To see the happiness love had wrought
	For the soldier’s stranger-child!
And the stern man when he asked his name
	Found sudden joy and tears,
For the little one was his brother’s child,
	Brothers, parted for years.

And he clasped him then in his strong arms,
	And the stern look fled away,
And he cried: “This is my Christmas gift!
	I’m going to grandpa’s today!”
She looked at the gifts and paler grew—
	“O, Teddy, why did you so!”
“Why Santa Claus didn’t know where I’d gone,
	And I wanted him to know.”

“Goodbye!” spoke many a smiling one,
	As they parted from the train;
But grandpa’s house was filled with joy
	For the dear ones home again.

		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Erda, Tooele Co., Utah, Dec., 1900.


[Column 1]
AN ALLEGORY.
	I stand on the narrow strip of land called
The Present, between the great Ocean of the
Past and the mighty Sea of the Future.
Behind me the circling waves stretch back-
ward into the fading distance of the un-
known. Before me the ripples break at my
feet, casting here and there a pebble or a
sparkling shell from the Eternal Shores.
There are great ships on the ocean behind
me, all sailing into my port of the Present;
some bear the name of Science, some of
Learning and some of Art; in most there is
the sound of pleasure and the incense of
selfish thought. How few there be that fly
the pennon of peace, and fewer still that
carry at their mast-head the Figure on the
Cross. They are laden with riches and
brightened with gold; but down, below the
decks, there are sighs and tears and helpless
creatures with no staff to lean upon. The
Captains boast of Honor and parade their
Virtues. I called these virtues up and
passed them in review before mine eyes;
Honesty led them, and Truth, which was
only Half-Truth, followed after. There
paced Sympathy and Benevolence; Mercy
and Justice were there, yet all looked some-
what queer, as if the face or vesture were
awry! I looked so carefully for Chastity;
and anon she came, but she bore a name in
her forehead, and I wondered! One half
of her was paralyzed! And then I knew
what had changed the others, for she was
mother of them all; each had inherited a
warped form, and Integrity was not their
father. Yet looking back into the mighty
past, I saw the ships bore better fruitage
than they did a thousand years ago, and I
was cheered!
	Before me lay a shell, with pink and deli-
cate tracery. I put it to mine ear and
listened! I heard the swift rush of softly
flying feet, and the sweet clamor of the
angelic multitude. ’Twas only a word
here and there that I caught, but in that
echo came insistently the sound, “Lo, the
Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet
Him.” And ever and anon repeated, "He
cometh—cometh quickly!" And I looked
so eagerly at my lamp, which burned dim
and pale. The heartache of it! And then
the waves threw at my feet a smooth,
white pebble, and I took it up and cupped

[Column 2]
it in my hand. And then I saw as if in a
vision: a struggling, serious people, led by
a white-haired man; and I saw his heart and
it was pure like unto gold, and his eyes
were clear with the visions of Eternity
And he put out his hand, and the people
arose, here and there one. With one pur-
pose they came from the north, the south,
and from the west they came, yet they were
few; the choice ones of that People! And
they journeyed Eastward. With fearless
feet they walked among the plague-smitten
people of the world, and in the deserted
cities they tarried as they would. They
pitched their tents upon a mighty river, and
there grew upon its banks a great city.
Over it rested a cloud by day and a pillar of
fire by night. And I looked for the vener-
able Leader. He was there, but he had
been translated. And he talked with One,
a glorious, beautiful Man in form, whose
matchless beauty and whose kingly mien
proclaimed Him King of Kings and Lord of
Lords. Yet he walked and talked with the
people. I tried to get anear Him in the
vision, for He won my whole heart’s devo-
tion, but he turned His dazzling counten-
ance towards me, and I dropped the pebble
to cover my face with my hand, for I could
not bear the effulgence.
	The pebble was gone, the waves had
washed it away, and I stood as before,
alone on the sands of the Present, with the
Ocean of the Past behind me and the Sea
of the Future rippling at my feet.
SUSA YOUNG GATES.


RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORTS.
	The time has come for annual reports and
it is important that reports be sent in as soon
as possible after the close of 1900. It is not
only necessary to have Stake reports, but
wherever a Relief Society has been organized
outside Stakes, whether in the United States,
British Empire, Scandinavia, Germany,
Switzerland, Holland, the islands of the sea,
reports for the year 1900, from January 1
to December 31, are expected at head-
quarters.
	E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.


SECRETARY LONG on December 19,
bought a residence site in Colorado Springs,
and will build a house there at once. His 
daughters who have been spending a year 
in Colorado for their health, propose to 
make the State their permanent home. May 
they vote at many more presidential
elections.—Ex.
	UTAH had some beautiful specimens of 
Utah-grown silk. There were silk hand-
kerchiefs with pictures of the Tabernacle 
and Assembly Hall in the corners, netted 
silk scarfs, and lovely soft skeins of raw 
silk in the jubilee colors, yellow, red and 
green. There were Navajo blankets made 
expressly for the Bazar, one of them worth 
a hundred dollars; Navajo rugs (the Utah 
women ordered them from an Indian 
woman in San Juan who makes them;) fine 
blankets from the Provo and Beaver mills 
pictures by Culmer and Ottinger, samples 
of gold and salt, photographs of magnificent 
Western scenery and of groups of Indians.
There were Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells’s
poems, three volumes of the Young 
Woman’s Journal, published in Salt Lake 
City, “The Wonderland of the Wild West”
	o her books.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
	ace one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH JANUARY 1, 1900.


[Column 1]
THE NEW YEAR AND NEW CENTURY.
	A Happy New Year and New Century to 
all our readers and patrons and to the pub-
lic generally. Many peculiar emotions are 
awakened, and half-forgotten memories of 
long ago called up on entering, not only the 
new year, (so often done before) but the 
new century, the last of the two thousand
years since the birth of the Savior.
	Greetings from great writers, and great 
leaders, heroes, statesmen and authors have 
been sent out to the world in a spirit of love 
and good-will, and one may assume from 
this that the world is in greater harmony 
as a whole than ever before.
	It is good to pause sometimes on the ap-
proach of a given period and take one’s self
into consideration, and ascertain if possible 
how one stands toward the world as re-
gards humanity at large. Whether the 
Golden Rule is being observed or if there is 
a nearer approach to loving one’s neighbor. 
	To examine one’s own heart is good for 
us all, if we will be as exact with ourselves 
as we would be with others. We are cer-
tainly living in a wonderful age, and it be-
hooves us to do our part well in the great
program that has been prepared for the 
Latter-day dispensation.
	The prophecy of the future as we read it 
in the sacred books that have been written 
by inspired men in the different periods of 
time in the past, all point to the day in 
which we live. Already the Saints have 
accomplished much temporally in building 
Temples in which sacred rites and ordinan-
ces are being solemnized for the living and 
for the dead; and ere many decades in the 
new century have come and gone, the greater 
Temple in Jackson County will be built and 
dedicated. Meantime great events will 
transpire that will facilitate the progress of 
the work of the Church.
	Poetry, music and art are being developed 
in the highest sense, and all these as well 
as mechanism of great variety and the ut-
most perfection will be essential to complete 
the Latter-day Zion. Skilled artisans in all 
kinds of workmanship are essential to the 
building up of Zion.
	Who of the young people of today are 
preparing themselves for such positions of 
usefulness? Every advantage of higher 
education is open to those who are ambi-
tious to make themselves proficient along 
the new avenues of engineering and similar 
pursuits, which require not only specific

[Column 2]
training but common sense put to use with 
the knowledge obtained. One of the ablest 
men of the present day predicts that the 
man of this new century will be the en-
gineer.
	The construction of all great railroads,
canals, bridges, fortifications and all such 
great enterprises require the thorough work 
of the engineer. The world is to come into
closer connection by these great under-
takings. 
	The manual training now being made a
part of the curriculum of the schools and 
colleges, will assuredly give the physique,
the strength of muscle and sinew, the 
physical development such as has not been 
known heretofore; and it will be needed in 
the great problems that are being presented 
in the industrial progress of the American 
nation. Steam, electricity and dynamo are 
the agents that will be most in evidence in 
the great work yet to be executed, and 
these require skilled masters as well as 
workmen. No doubt the first quarter of a 
century will give an assurance of such 
mighty problems solved as those now living 
have never dreamed could be wrought out.
	The great reforms that have been started 
in the Nineteenth century will possibly—
yes probably—find their fulfillment in this 
new century before it is half completed; 
for instance, International Arbitration, and 
various governmental improvements which 
must necessarily follow along with the 
humanitarian views that are being agitated 
and advocated for the betterment of mankind.
	The outlook for the future is most hope-
ful when one considers the great strides that 
have already been made during the last 
half of this century in more directions than 
it is possible to name in these pages. The
light and knowledge that has come by direct 
revelation through the prophets and seers of 
these latter days, has blest the world and 
lifted up mankind far more than they are 
themselves aware of or able to appreciate
	Yet there is much to be done that will 
require almost superhuman efforts, and to 
this people particularly, who believe the 
second advent of the Savior is not far off,
there is no time to waste if the Saints are to 
be ready for His coming. The Gospel has 
not yet reached every nation, and thousands 
of Elders will yet go to foreign lands to 
proclaim the tidings of great joy to the peo-
ple that sit in darkness, that the scriptures
may be fulfilled; and the way is being 
opened up in ways of which we had not 
dreamed in the past. The Republic of 
America that guarantees religious liberty is 
extending its borders afar off, and the end 
is not yet and we venture the prediction 
that other lands will yet come under her 
flag, and without war or bloodshed, but be-
cause of the freedom and liberty vouchsafed 
under the glorious Constitution framed by 
our forefathers.


[Column 1]
SYMPOSIUM.
THE NINETEENTH AND TWENTIETH
CENTURIES.
	The nineteenth century has been fraught
with wonderful events. Our Father in
heaven and His Son Jesus Christ, appearing
before Joseph Smith and instructing him
about religion and sending Moroni to him
and delivering the ancient [-]ecord on golden
plates, from which he translated the Book
of Mormon. Also in sending Peter, James
and John to Joseph Smith and Oliver
Cowdery, and conferring the Holy Priest-

[Column 2]
hood upon them, and teaching them how to
organize the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and how to attain salva-
tion for the living and redemption for the
dead.
	How the Prophet Joseph, had to lay
down his precious life for the truths he had
taught.
	How about the next century? There
will be greater calamities, more sickness,
pestilence of every name and nature until
the earth will be cleaned of wickedness,
and the Gospel will be preached to every
nation, and the honest in heart gathered to
Zion, and the Center Stake built up, many
of the Lamanites converted and Jerusalem
will be rebuilt and the ten tribes will re-
turn.
	Jesus will come in the clouds of heaven
with all His holy angels, and the Saints be
caught up to meet Him.
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,

	These are my views of the century just
passed.
	I consider it the most important
and wonderful since the days of Christ. The
rapid strides which have been made in
every branch of science are marvelous to
hmman understanding. But the greatest
and most important to the whole human
family is the mission of the young prophet
Joseph Smith. When in the sincerity of his
soul he besought the Lord to show him
which of all the religious denominations was
the right one, God the Father revealed
Himself unto him with His Son, Jesus
Christ, beside Him, and told Joseph to join
himself to none of the sects then existing, as
he had a great work for him to do. The
Lord afterward opened up to his under-
standing the great plan of salvation for the
children of men, and restored the Everlast-
ing Gospel with all its power and authority.
	Especially to the government of the
United States has it been eventful and
profitable. The opening up of the Western
intermountain region, with its untold
wealth, through the influence and perse-
verance of the Latter-day Saints, has added
materially to the strength and importance
of this nation.
	The whole century has been replete with
the fulfillment of prophecies of the ancient
prophets. The signs of the times to which
the Savior referred have been vividly mani-
fested, and will become more marked dur-
ing the centuiy that is before us. The wars
and rumors of wars, the famine, flood,
pestilence and other calamities that were
promised in the latter days, are of daily oc-
currence, and are destined to continue until
the coming of the Savior to reign upon the
earth.
M. ISABELLA HORNE.

	To any Latter-day Saint the event
of the present century which eclipses
all others in importance is the restoration
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. And I be-
lieve that the early years of the coming
century will show to the whole world that
the view now taken by only a handful of
people is the correct one. It is, perhaps,
not too much to think that all will soon see
that the Gospel will bring about the uni-
versal brotherhood and the reign of peace
on earth so long foreseen by the prophets.
SARAH JENNE CANNON.

	In contemplating the great advancement
that has been made in discoveries and in-


[Column 1]
ventions of the nineteenth century, re-
markable as they are, they are not to my
mind so great as the restoration of the
Latter-day dispensation by the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and turning the key for the
advancement of womankind, whereby
woman has come forth from her oppression
and stands side by side with her brother in
all the best thoughts and inspiration of the
age.
	Who can tell what the coming century
will reveal? The coming forth of the Ten
Tribes, gathering to Jackson County of the
Saints, building of the great Temple and
other important prophecies. Great men
will be inspired to invent and more impor-
tant discoveries in arts and sciences, and the
brotherhood of mankind will be more per-
fect.
		MARGARET Y. TAYLOR.

	My reply to the request for a few of my
thoughts on the events of the nineteenth
century and a prediction of what the
twentieth will unfold, must be that the
first, among many important events effecting
the present and future state of every one of
God’s creatures, is the restoration of the ful-
ness of the Gospel through the instrument-
ality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, present-
ing a plan broad enough to reach every soul
who ever has or ever shall be born upon
this earth.
	Important as is this event it has been
made possible by another of scarcely less
importance, viz., the development of this
grand government of ours, under the oper-
ation of that God-inspired instrument, the
Constitution, from a few struggling states
to the greatest nation on earth. Not only
great in numbers and wealth, but great in
her political and religious liberty, which
she has extended to the down-trodden and
oppressed of all nations. Through her
institutions woman has been placed on a
higher plane than she ever occupied before.
	The leaven of this nation has had its
effect for good upon almost all the powers,
especially Japan, which has made wonder-
ful progress in the last quarter of a century.
	An important movement already born
will doubtless gather strength during the
early part of the twentieth century, and
reach its final consummation before its close,
is the efforts being put forth by a number of
wealthy Hebrews to establish the Jews as a
nation upon the land of their fathers; and
this in fulfillment of the predictions of the
prophets.
		EMMA SMITH WOODRUFF.

	A few reflections on the passing and
coming centuries.
	Surely the one just closing has been a
wonderful and marvelous one. The many,
many great and grand incidents that have
come to pass, none of which any human
being understood,only the inspired Prophets
of God taught by His Holy Spirit long be-
fore our Era, looking down through the
vista of time predicted what would and has
come to pass in the last days, and has been
ushered in during the past century, even of
the revelation of the Gospel in its purity,
and a prophet being raised up, to which we
can testify.
	The establishment of the kingdom of
God, the coming forth of the Book of
Mormon, and how the Prophet Nahum pre-
dicted of the railroads being builded in the
day of the Lord’s preparation. And how
could those who had obeyed the Gospel in
distant parts or lands have been gathered to-

[Column 2]
gether as they have been had not these
prophecies been fulfilled. Abundant are
the reflections that might be written but
space will not permit.
	Of the coming century even far greater
and mightier events are expected, but it
would take a prophet or seer to determine
what they will be.
		ELIZABETH J. STEVENSON.

	The nineteenth century is drawing to a
close, and as we take a retrospective view
of the great and wonderful events that have
transpired since its commencement, the re-
flecting mind is struck with awe and
wonder at the improvement that has been
made in the step toward perfection of the
various arts and sciences, literature, music
and all other branches of education that
have been developed for the benefit and
progress of humanity.
	One of the great events that has tran-
spired in this century was the War of the
Rebellion, and the freedom of the colored
race from the bondage of slavery; also the
enfranchisement of women in various parts
of the land, whereby they have been en-
abled to enlarge and develop their oppor-
tunities of doing more good in many ways
for the improvement and advancement of
their sex and the world.
	The establishing of the Gospel of Jesus
Christ once more upon the earth in its ful-
ness and purity for the salvation and re-
demption of the human family by our
Heavenly Father, and the rearing up of a
prophet, an inspired man of God to assist
Him in the great and glorious work. The
Gospel is being preached to the nations of
the earth by our faithful missionaries.
Prophecies of both ancient and modern
prophets are being fulfilled concer ningwhat
should transpire in the latter days.
	The recent war in Cuba and the Philip-
pines is not to be passed over lightly,
neither the tearing down of the famous
Chinese wall and the entrance of troops into
China, as it has been hitherto thought
impossible. Disasters of almost every
known nature have been poured out upon
the land, and various other things of great
magnitude that have transpired in the
present century.
	And now a new era is about to dawn
upon the world; another century is about to
be ushered in, and no doubt greater and
mightier events will transpire in the future.
He above, who reigns in the heavens and
controls the destinies of His children upon
the earth, knows the extent thereof.
	But let the Saints prepare themselves for
another great event, which we believe is
near at hand, even the coming of our Lord
and Savior Jesus Christ, when the glorious
Millennial reign of Peace and Rest will be
ushered in perhaps in the twentieth
century.
			MARIA W. WILCOX.

	The signs of the times are fraught wtih
deep interest to the Latter-day Saints. We
see the fulfillment of many prophecies of
the prophets in both ancient and modern
times. In my soul I heartily endorse the
sentiments expressed and the testimonies
borne by our prophets, seers and revelators,
the Watchmen upon the walls of Zion, who
are ever alert, whose voices are ever heard
in defence of the revelations given through
Joseph Smith, the Prophet, to this gener-
ation, for the uplifting and redemption of
the whole race of mankind, both the living
and the dead. Since the year 1885 my life

[Column 3]
work has been in the Temples of God. I
have had great joy in my labors. The
Prophet Joseph declared this to be the
most important work the Latter-day
Saints could be engaged in.
	I do indeed feel proud of the distinction
of being chosen as a bosom companion of
the Prophet Joseph Smith. That I am a
living witness of his divine mission and I
bear testimony to all the world that the
foundation of the everlasting hills are not
more firmly set or established than the
knowledge I have received, or the witness
that has been given me of the spirit, con-
cerning the divine origin of the great
Latter-day work.
	May the new century bring peace, joy
and happiness to all seekers after truth.
			LUCY W. KIMBALL.

	In summing up the many wonderful
events of the marvelous nineteenth century
now closing, every Latter-day Saint will
instinctively place as the leading headlight
in the list, the birth, mission and death of
Joseph Smith.
	When his work on earth was completed,
the Prophet Joseph, sealed his testimony
with his blood, as did Christ and many of
His disciples anciently. But in this century
the light of the Gospel of Jesus Christ was
ushered in to remain and continue to in-
crease forever.
	Joseph proclaimed the utmost freedom for
all men; and following his appeal for uni-
versal liberty, slavery was abolished in the
United States of America. At a fearful
cost, it is true; but had the government
listened to the inspired words of the young
prophet, it need not have cost one drop of
blood, nor a tithe of the money expended.
	He declared when he organized the
Sisterhood of the Church into the Relief
Society, that he “turned the key in favor of
woman.” Since that time what a noble
work has been accomplished in woman’s
favor by hundreds of heroic women in this
and other nations, including many of the
Society which the Prophet organized.
	With the progress of light darkness has
wildly striven to keep pace, or out do. But
on the 6th of April, 1893, an advance step
was taken by the over-ruling power of light,
which will never be quite approached by
the shadow of darkness.
	At that time the Prophet Wilford Wood-
ruff declared that the key was turned in
favor of the Saints, and was in the hand of
Jesus Christ; and that from that time
righteousness would have greater power
and wickedness less in the world. With
this proposition in view, what may we not
anticipate for the coming twentieth century?
To be brief, ere its close, Satan may be
securely bound and Christ may reign over
the earth.
	LOUISA L. GREENE RICHARDS.

	Two centuries—what shall I say of them,
the passing away and the new birth ?
	To one whose life is centered in the hap-
piness and well being of the children of the
Saints, it seems but natural that whatever
has happened in the past, or may happen in
the future, our little ones must of necessity
be the center from which and towards which
what thoughts I have at this particular
time ebb and flow.
	So many changes have come to pass in
our actions toward children and in our
methods in rearing and training, that much
might be said or written about them.
	We have much to be grateful for to


[Column 1]
Pestalozzi and Froebel and many others
who have filled our own and our children’s
lives with pleasures and experiences of
object lessons, and the Kindergarten, with
its many beautiful phases, none of which
appeal more strongly than the pleasures of
“learning by doing.”
	Among us, as a people, we feel that much
has been accomplished and that the path
lies very bright before us for the progress
and advancement of the future, and that
this is made possible through the restora-
tion of the Gospel during the past century,
and through the Prophet Joseph Smith,
who opened the door for woman.
	And now where are the limitations of
woman’s progress and improvement? And
as the care of children is woman’s special
charge, the new century will see much ad-
vancement and many things which today
are in the experimental stage will be proven
and tested, and whatever is unworthy will
be cast out. For however much may be
said of the present wickedness of the world,
with the education of our children in the
care of that sex which has always, and will
still maintain the chastity and virtue of the
race, with the possibilities of the newer
education added to those long inherited
qualities, the race of men will grow and in-
crease in the virtues and graces of life, as
well as in intelligence and power.
LOUIE B. FELT.

	The nineteenth century may be called the
century of Liberty and Light.
	Although the announcement of the birth
of Liberty was in 1776, it was scarcely en-
throned until the nineteenth century.
	On the soil of Liberty the intellect of
men and women was encouraged, protected
and permitted to unfold and increase in the
arts and sciences ornamental and practical.
Steam in all its possibilities was developed
and shot forth on rivers and seas, making
the nations neighbors.
	The wonders of electricity are lighting
and linking the whole world by its mighty
and various powers. The inimitable Light
of Truth in all its effulgence of authority
and power descended from heaven and
planted its feet on earth no more to be
overcome and flee, but to overcome all evil
and bring gradually all good men and
women into the perfect life. Slavery lifted
its Medusa head in the South, but
Liberty enthroned in the North gave forth
the edict for it to depart and it fled the land.
	Tyranny in Cuba with its mailed hand
was striking terror and death over all its
fair land till Liberty could no longer shut
the hideous sight from her eyes nor close
her ears to the cry of the oppressed, and
she thundered Halt to Spain, the oppressor,
and with swift showers of shot and shell
(the only available language to convince
her of her errors) quickly shattered her
chains of bondage. Cuba, Porto Rico and
the Phillipines, will now enjoy the
blessings of Liberty, so soon as the benighted
minds of her inhabitants can perceive the
great boon offered them.
	The harpoons of the natives have been
firmly fastened in the dreadful soul-
devouring Dragon, China, where tyranny
and oppression have reached the climax,
and its door will be thrown wide open for
the ingress of light, law and civilization, the
forerunners of the establishment of truth.
The British lion has laid his paw on unpro-
gressive Africa for the same purpose.
	In view of these great beginnings of
the nineteenth century what developments

[Column 2]
shall we look for in the twentieth?
	Turkey will be plucked and prepared for
the feast of law and order. The helpless,
the needy, the down-trodden and oppressed
of all nations will be fed, comforted and
instructed and lifted up into light, law,
civilization and truth, in fact, a great ad-
vance towards, if not the accomplishment
will be achieved on the earth of the
Fatherhood and Motherhood of God and
the Brotherhood of men.
ROMANIA B. PRATT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


70	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WHAT HATH THE CENTURY WROUGHT
	If the question were asked, what has
been the most remarkable development of
the Nineteenth Century, a number of
answers might be given.
	The scientist would point to the magnifi-
cent records of medicine, of steam, of
electricity, of all the mechanical devices and
discoveries.
	The artist would refer you to the rejuven-
ation made in music, painting, literature
and in all the arts which made Greece sole
mistress of the world for centuries.
	The religionist would quote any one of
the great revivals, or perhaps would point
to the intense expressions of materalism on
the one hand, and spiritism on the other.
	Each and all would choose a different
phase of the many-sided Progress in this
passing century, which is as varied as the
natures, occupations and dispositions of
men who have taken part therein.
	If a being from some other sphere, whose
vision had been clarified through absence
of time-limits were asked to answer this
question, his answer, based on the superior-
ity of men to things, would be—the most
wonderful feature of the past century is the
development of the individuality of man.
	Men there have been; individuals have al-
ways arisen here and there on the horizon
of history; but men have been lumped to-
gether, as it were; the nations have hereto-
fore been forcibly classified. The shot at
Lexington tore away the constructing bands
of all previous tradition, and man stood
there alone, each one classifying himself
forever more.
	In primitive conditions men were all indi-
viduals; but as social expression became
necessary men found it expedient to invest
united authority in one or more of their
number. That moment there began the
monarchical form of social life, in which
the man gradually lost identity and the
government rested in the hands of the few.
	With varying forms, this type of life con-
tinued down to the close of the 18th cen-
tury
	Sporadic forms of individuality existed, it
is true, but usually they appeared in law-
less or barbaric life.
	It is not the purpose of this writing to
inquire into the prehistoric or spiritual
causes of such facts as have been stated,
but to group about this premise some ex-
planations and deductions, and to add a
forecast of the near future.
	Consider for a moment what conditions
surrounded the man born into monarchical
life. He was, as a child, environed with a
chain of circumstances which held him with
deathless power. If he were born into a
palace, or on the steps of a throne, he could
have no choice, except between being a
good or bad monarch. All the teachings
and arts of courtiers might portray to him the
unexcelled grandeur and splendor of his

[Column 2]
future; but if he were an artist, a cook or a
carpenter by nature, nothing could be done
for him except to fit him up a playhouse for
his rare leisure moments. Not even his
heart could dictate his marital relations, in
legality. The woman he longed to crown
might be a scullery maid, and the eloquence
of the kingdom might supplement the
teachings and traditions of his youth, while
a dozen utterly disinterested men canvassed
neighboring kingdoms to select the woman
best fitted, politically and strategically
for his consort. One thing he could al-
ways resort to, to relieve the pressure of re-
straint upon his will, he could be wicked or
spiteful, or both.
	Pass down through the various positions,
classes and degrees, until the street gamin
is reached, each, the nobleman’s son, the
merchant’s heir, the child of the tradesman,
the offspring of the day laborer, each was
held closely in the circle into which he was
born by environment, by education and by
tradition.
	One thing each one could do, sink to the
level below him, or down and down till
disgrace and death closed the scene. But
none could go higher, except in rare and
peculiar cases; and these exceptions but ac-
centuated the rule.
	There were exceptions; but where the
individual, through accident or design, suc-
ceeded in reaching a higher class, he was
absorbed into the upper class, and he must
perforce sever all connection with his own
class, no matter at what cost to himself or
to his former associates.
	All these conditions are familiar to the
student of history, and indeed, they exist
today, in such governments as still per-
petuate the monarchical forms.
	No man in Europe says who shall be his
next Sovereign. Nor do they in any
measure, except in France, Switzerland and
England, dictate the policies of their
countries; and in France, in England and
in Switzerland it is the classes which hold
the partial franchise and even then the
power is limited and the choice restricted.
	American independence gives not alone
the power to vote for this man or that, for this
policy or that. The ethical foundation upon
which that right rests is the most precious
gift ever given to man; it is the right of
choice, limitless, boundless.
	A man under this flag may vote or not
vote; he may be a plunger in the Stock-
market or a bootblack on the street. He
may be the ruler of the country, or a tramp.
	If he moves above his youthful conditions
into a wealthier or more cultured class,
there is no reason why his family and
relatives shall not accompany him, if they
comply with the same conditions.
	He may do or not do, he has every human
choice offered him, and the only limit is his
capacity and his will. In other words, he
makes his own environments; in the 
European countries, his environments make
him.
	With this understanding, let us approach
another phase of this subject, and consider
it well.
	When men faced the enemy at Lexington
there were those within the distant cottages
of the village, who melted the lead and
ran into molds the deadly missilles which
gave the final expression to revolt from
tyranny and classification.
	These were women! 
	When she saw, that wife, that mother,
what her husband and sons had wrought;
when she beheld the shackles which had


[Column 1]
bound them to tradition, to classification
and to oppression, stricken from the manly
wrists; when she saw them awaken as from
a long sleep and grasp the reins of self-
government, free, free as divinity itself;
free to choose and the whole world to
choose from, she looked down at her own
slender hands and found them bound by a
far more delicate and ethereal band, but
none the less, bound!
	There came in the early part of this cen-
tury, born just at its dawn, just after the
smoke of the Lexington cannonading had
cleared entirely away, a young prophet into
the midst of men, and he taught them that
government was harmony with law; that
the only free soul is the one which is in tune
with the universe. Disobedience or inhar-
mony is slavery; yet obedience must
rest wholly and solely on the free agency of
man.
	It was a doctrine taught by Jesus to His
apostles, and retaught by Him to the
courageous young prophet.
	The soul of the young man hung upon
the altar of revelation.
	As he looked about the world he felt the
hem of his garment drawn away, and he
turned about; it was his mother, his wife,
his sister who held out to him in wordless
entreaty their delicately manacled wrists.
	He saw what other men could not see,
and his heart was moved within him; he and
his brothers had but late borne a similar
chain.
	With a smile he turned and said gently:
	“Here is the key; unloose thy bands.”
	What help he could he gave. But his
own life was hunted and driven, and at
last he was slain for his testimony.
	The revolutionary flag which was flung
to ‘the breeze starred and striped with
Freedom’s insignia, gave man his political
right; the fearless prophet voice whose
echoes even now are rapidly encircling the
globe—sounded in men’s ears spiritual
freedom; and as the very keynote of that
universal human right was sex freedom,
authority of choice, vested not in a few men
nor even in men alone, but in each one
alike, regardless of creed, color or sex.
	From the hour the key was given, great
and restless activity has marked every
phase of womanly life. One by one barriers
have been swept down and obstructions
cleared away. Here and there individuals
have, broken from the ranks, and have
created momentary confusion and trouble
through recklessness and lack of wisdom;
but the battle has been steadily on. Not
with powder and shell, not with beating
drum and flying flag; but with the subtle
weapons of the spirit, the warfare has been
waged.
	And what mighty generals have led the
forces—Eliza R. Snow, Susan B. Anthony,
Emma Smith, Elizabeth Cady Stanton,
Mary A. Livermore, Sarah M. Kimball
Margaret T. Smoot and Lucy Stone.
	It is incumbant on the student of these
problems to deduct from them some spiritual
conclusion.
	First: men have achieved, for the first
time in the world’s history, absolute right
of choice within the last century. The
awakening came at the close of the former
century, and the close of this sees the grand
accomplished fact.
	Woman received the key to her individu-
ality in the first part of this century, a little
behind her brother in that awakening,
consequently a little behind in the accom-
plishment of the whole purpose. 

[Column 2]
What humanity has received from the
freedom of man, will be doubled in extent
when the freedom of woman is as thorough-
ly established in even this one country.
	The right of choice!
	The right to do or not to do; to choose
any occupation, climate or companion. The
right to ascend, as well as the unhappy
power to descend in the scale of existence.
The precious right of a voice at the ballot,
and the no less precious power to choose
her traditional place in society or to reject it
if she will.
	When woman has acheived her per-
fect liberty, she will choose to be tender,
gentle, intuitional, and, in a word, woman-
ly; she will eschew too active public life,
and she will esteem her natural sphere as
godlike and perfect. But she must be al-
lowed to elect this herself, not be man or
men or even other women, say she ought or
she shall. She will possess and exercise in
full her heaven-ordained right of choice.
Then will come, in this beautiful (20th)
century, whose dawn purples all the hills of
progress, the ideal woman side by side with
the ideal man. She is very near, and be-
side her stands the Mighty One, who died
to redeem all mankind.
	Two notes must be sounded at the close
of this brief exposition: let all men and all
women guard carefully word and thought
when dealing in any wise with the subtle
warfare. For a word may hasten, an act re-
tard, the coming of the ideal. So, too, must
the hand which has been set to the plough,
not weaken in its grasp. Onward! no mat-
ter what be the obstructions.
	The last word of caution is to that eager
restless woman-heart, which sent to spy out
the land of Caanan, and intoxicated with
the beauty and glory of it all, grows reck-
less in her advice to the home army, and
would sweep away and trample down every
opposing force. There is a new element in
our spiritual evolution; even as this sex-
battle is ethereal and indefinable instead of
being waged with arrows or lead, so in our
earth history we have grown away from
retaliation and force. Not bullets with
smiles, not forts but firesides, not revenge
but love, not to force our way but to win it,
this is the inscription on the key which was
put into the woman’s hands over half a
century ago.
	Therefore, the sum of all science, of all
art, of all religion is the development of
man; and out of the ashes of this dead cen-
tury there rises a pure spirit of Progress
which paces towards us, not as man alone
in deified form and mien, nor as woman
alone elevated by sentiment or selfishness;
but side by side they come, the ideal man
and the ideal woman of the (20th) century,
content, smiling, glorified!
					HOMESPUN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.]
	One old lady whom we had not invited
as soon as she learned what was being
done, donned her finest white robe and
made her appearance. I received her as I
did the invited guests, knowing she was
ignorant of our customs. The natives
from far and near thronged the house,
looking in at the windows to admire the
decorations. I felt annoyed and asked the
chief if he would tell them to go away.
He plead for them as a father would for his
children. They had never seen anything

[Column 2]
of that kind before and he wished me to
indulge them for once, another time they
should be sent away. I felt that he was
right and consented to let them feast their
eyes as long as they would.
	After dinner we held a prayer meeting,
and at evening illuminated the house with
all the glass lamps in the village. The
brilliant lights threw over all a mantle of
romance, exceeding anything I had ever
seen. Brother Crosby and Ellen made the
instrumental music, and added to the sweet
melody of human voices made it seem in
reality like a birthday of the beloved
Savior.
	Here, now in December, the heat is ex-
cessive. It is the first time I have suffered
with it. Frances, I discover, is getting
uneasy. I pray that the way may appear
for us to return home, lest our daughters
become unhappy.
	The 28th. After returning from the
Sabbath morning service I was sent for in
great haste. Sister Grouard was taken
suddenly with a severe chill. She was
exercised in a singular manner. The
natives exclaimed, “Tupau pau,” (That is
an evil spirit.) In vain I remonstrated;
told them she had taken a cold, it was an
ague chill. They said I was “maro,” that
is stubborn and hard to believe. As the
chill left her they let down the curtains to
dress her. A native sister whispered,
“Look you under the curtains and see the
spirit when it comes out.” So great is
their supersition. The sick woman got out
of bed with a high fever, a little wondering
in mind. They eyed her very closely and
thought they saw the devil. She is fast
recovering.
	There is another sick woman sinking
every day. She is in the bloom of life and
has six children. O, gladly would I save
her. She is surrounded by unbelievers in
the ordinances of the Gospel, even in the
same house. It is hard to have faith then.
I regret we were not supplied with simple
medicines when she left home.
	January 1, 1852. New Years we cele-
brated by making another feast. We dec-
orated Brother Crosby’s house, made it
white with coral lime, “Te fau nehe whe te
fare no yo nu tuna.”
	Many of the natives were invited and
seated at the tables. There were five
tables set for seventeen. They improve a
little each time. The outside of the house
was surrounded by the poor, uncouth
beings. It is a trial to bear with their
extreme ignorance, still a little pleasure to
amuse them. They will gaze for a half
hour at a picture, and you must answer
forty questions concerning it. They must
know the history entire or not be satisfied.
We all agree in wishing our friends in Salt
Lake a happy New Year. We trust they
are wishing us the same. On these oc-
casions we dress ourselves in a becoming
and tasteful manner, ornament our rooms
as we would to receive fashionable and re-
fined company, all for the purpose of ex-
ample, that they may understand our cus-
toms and to stimulate them to imitation
and improvement. Twice today we
thought we heard the cry of “Pakiia hoi,”
(ship coming), but were disappointed. The
children’s ears are open now and will be
till the Ravai comes into port. We shall
watch to see her tall masts and white sails
reeling in the strong breeze, which now
blows fair for Tubuai. There is no other
hope of again being relieved of monotany
but the return of the vessel. I have been


toiling all the morning cleaning my door-
yard. I often do such things to encourage
the native women to clean theirs. They
will pass along complimenting me in this
way. “e hara! Pa ruita va hine foa nehe nehe
aua! They seem to think all the little
nice habits belong exclusively to the
Europeans A few there are who have
imitation large Such if they had courage
to excel would do well, but it is no trait of
a native to be above his fellows. With
this people there is little division or dis-
tinction, even those who do not belong to
the Church must be treated as brethren.
	Today the Elders broke bread. The
brethren came from the other village.
Brother Alexander called after the close of
the services, and talked of his trouble with
his native wife. She is a childish girl, it
is evident she does not love him. What a
pity that sensible men should involve them-
selves with these poor ignorant women.
They cannot bring them to their level, it is
unwise to attempt it. To be comfortable
with them they must descend to their level.
	The 5th day. Head winds, no prospect
of the ship coming in tomorrow, we shall
go to Mahu for a few days. Walked to the
village, a distance of five miles, wind very
high, did not feel fatigued. Made the
the village at twelve, visited and went to
see the sick woman. She was laying on a
mat spread upon the ground, a hard pil-
low for her head. I saw she was dyimg,
her feet and hands were cold. Her hus-
band was leaning over her, apparently the
only mourner. I felt distressed to see no
one doing anything for her relief. I ordered
chicken broth, which she took easily. I
heated rocks and applied to her hands and
feet. I saw they were expecting her to
die, and so sat idly down to await the
event. A large pile of cloths lay near her,
brought to wrap her in, as their custom is
when one dies. She spoke distinctly
several times, had her reason well, seemed
calm and resigned.

	The bell was rung and the children
called together. I organized them into a
class and taught them to translate Tahitian
words into English, to count and reckon—
nearly anything for employment is better
than idleness. The white children amuse
themselves rambling about and gathering
flowers. They go often to the bathing
places. I cannot be contented without
business and company. Anything like
employment I grasp with eagerness. This
is a silent place, no noise but the rumbling,
roaring old waves of the sea.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St. Salt Lake City.

WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.						TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ing s accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
OREGON SHORT LINE
	RAILROAD.
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . , . .

See that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the best

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 Wes
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. ECCLES,	D E. BURLEY,
	Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. A & T.


[column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	FRIENDSHIP, says Robert Hall, is the
cordial of life.

	No man is so ready for a quarrel with
another as he who has a quarrel with him-
self.

	THE difference between the sound of
[column 2]
wedding bells and a decree of divorce—the
first is a marriage peal and the second a 
marriage repeal.

	AN old lady once remarked that she had
"often heard of men being struck with a 
happy thought, but had never been able to
find out where it hit them."

	THE  National Suffrage Bazar cleared
about $7,000 instead of $6,000, as at first
reported. The supplementary sale at
Philadelphia netted $317, and some goods
are still on hand.

	MADAME BEROSTHORN, wife of the
Austrian charge d' affaires at Pekin, has
been given the cross of the Legion of 
Honor for her heroic conduct and her as-
sistance to the French during the siege of
the legation. Only one other foreign 
woman has been thus decorated—Maria
Schellenck, a Belgian woman who dis-
guised herself as a man and joined Napo-
leon's army as a private soldier. She be-
came a corporal, a sergeant and then a 
lieutenant. She served seventeen years,
went through twelve campaigns, and was
eight times wounded. Napoleon decorated
her personally in 1808.

	MRS. CAROLINE M. SEVERANCE, one
of the pioneers who could not be present in
person at the Suffrage Bazar, was repre-
sented by a quantity of beautiful plumes of
pampas grass, which she sent from her 
home in Los Angeles to the Lucy Stone
booth.

	A PRETTY Irish servant maid who had
got married, called to see her mistress. "I
hear that you are going to Australia with 
your husband, Kitty," said the lady. "Are
you not afraid of such a long voyage?"
"Well, ma'am, that's his look-out." said
Kitty. "I belong to him now, an' if any-
thing happens to me, shure it'l be his 
loss, not mine."

	UTAH'S doll was presented, not by the
Governor's wife, but by the Governor.
Gov. Wells is a widower, and the Salt Lake 
ladies felt a delicacy about asking him for
a doll; but he somehow heard of the fact
that governor's wives in the different
States were giving dolls to the Suffrage
Bazar, and he at once appointed a com-
mittee of six women to go out and buy the
handsomest doll to be found in the city.
There she was at the Utah booth, looking
quite bridal in her white laces, and none
the less elegantly attired because the
women who dressed her were voters.—Ex.


THE GENERATIONS.

Dust unto dust, ’twas decreed at the first,
O, mortality, turn thou to clay! 
But a dazzling splendor ere long will burst,
Where has flourished but death and decay.

Proudly monarchs have sat since long ago,
On the nation’s imperial throne;
Royal scepters have swayed their hearts aglow,
Empires of earth, seeming all their own.


They’ve played their part, good or ill on life’s
	   stage,
	Have tasted the sweets of earthly power;
Have measured the world by their human gauge,
	Then life is over, brief as an hour.

Voiceless the dust for long ages has slept,
	Been borne on the air or ocean’s foam,
To sounding caverns has secretly crept,
	Where waves are singing a ceaseless moan.

O, this home of kings of their grandeur shorn!
	On a level all who enter here;
No thrones of gold has this realm ever known,
	Nor subjects knees bent in trembling fear.

The Omnipotent One is king o’er all.
	His sceptre must rule supreme, alone,
And this sleeping world soon must hear His call
	To judgment, before the Great White Throne.
							Lydia D. Alder.
Stratford, England, Nov., 1900.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 29
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15 & FEBRUARY 1, 1901. Nos. 16 & 17


The Great and Good Queen Victoria...Editor 73
Great in Small Things..............R.A.S. 73
Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting. .C. S. Williams 74
Visit in St. George Stake. ...Ann C. Woobury 74
A Tribute of Love............... E.B.W. 75
Notes and News............................ 75
A Word of Love and Greeting................ 77
R. S. and P. A. Reports...................77
Obituary................................... 78
New Hall Dedicated..............J.N.Price 78
Oneida S ake...........................................................78
EDITORIAL-Some Happenings of the New Year 76
 National Live Stock Convention............ 77
Poetry—The New Century... J. B. Hartswick 73
The Poet...........................Selected 55


THE NEW CENTURY.

When in the dim, gray East shall rise,
	The morning of the birth—
When thy first dawn steps from the skies
	Upon the hills of earth—
Shall waiting nations breathless stand
	Oppressed with haunting fears,
Of what thou holdest in thy hand, 
	Thou coming Hundred Years.

Or shall a glad world welcome thee
	With laughter and a song
Thou unborn child of Destiny—
	Whose reign shall be so long ?
Who knows !—we only know that thou
	Shalt enter like a king
Into thy courts,—that we must bow,
	Whatever thou dost bring.

What matter whether war or peace
	Thy heralds shall proclaim—
The story of the centuries
	Is evermore the same !
Thy children-years shall tell abroad,
	Through all thy mighty span,
Naught but the Fatherhood of God—  
	The Brotherhood of Man.

JENNIE BETTS HARTSWICK.


[Column 1]
THE GREAT AND GOOD QUEEN VICTORIA. 	

The death of Queen Victoria has caused
not only sincere sorrow and deep and heart-
felt mourning in Great Britain, but there is
a universal feeling in all the civilized world
that the greatest sovereign of her time has
departed. In fact she is spoken of as the
greatest without making comparisons. Not
only queen of Great Britain and Ireland,
and colonies attached thereto, but Empress
of India. Her life reads like a fable almost,
so grand have been her virtues and so
numerous the honors that have come to her
unsought by herself. So magnificently has
she reigned that it has been hard for those
who envied her (and indeed they were few)
to find any grounds of complaint either in
her public or private life, and her name will
go down through the ages as the good, pure
and true Queen Victoria. This is the more
remarkable when one considers how very
long her reign has been, longer than any
other king or queen who has sat upon the
British throne.
	The reading public are everywhere in-
formed that her death occurred at Osborne
House, on the Isle of Wight, January 22,
6:30 a. m. The Prince of Wales dispatch to
the Lord-Mayor of London reads:
	“My beloved mother has just passed away
surrounded by her children and grandchildren.
(Signed) Albert Edward. 
The Lord-Mayor’s reply was.
“Your Imperial Highness’ telegram an-

[Column 2]
nouncing the nations great loss I have re-
ceived with profound distress and grief, and
have communicated this most sad intimation
to my fellow citizens. Her majesty’s name
and memory will forever live in the hearts of
her people.
	“May I respectfully convey to your royal
highness and to all members of the royal
family the earnest sympathy and condolence
of the city of London in your great sorrow.”
	The queen is said to have bade farewell in
a feeble monosyllable to her family assembled
at her bedside at mid-day. She first recog-
nized the Prince of Wales to whom she
spoke a few words of great moment; then
Emperor William and the others present filed
past and heard a whispered good bye. All
those in the bedroom were in tears.
	Volumes might and will undoubtedly be
written of this celebrated sovereign and most
excellent woman; but nevertheless in a great
kingdom like the British Empire order must
be preserved, and therefore another monarch,
even though he be bowed in grief, must be
proclaimed, and the regular routine observed.
	“London, January 23, 1 p. m. The King
Emperor entered his capital at 12:55 and pro-
ceeded to Marlborough House where at the
meeting of the privy council the king took
the title of Edward VII, king of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and
emperor of India.
	After attending the first privy council at St.
James palace, at 2 p. m., when a decision will
be reached regarding the public proclamation
of his accession, which, it is expected, will be
read tomorrow at 10 a. m., his majesty will
proceed to the house of lords for the meeting
of parliament.
	London has donned a garb of mourning
from end to end and an early hour found a
thick fog enveloping the city like a pall, a
fitting accompaniment of the funeral apparel
of every one. Throughout the west end
drawn blinds are the order of the day, while
on all the embassies, government offices and
public buildings the flags are half-masted. The
law courts, the stock exchange and all the
produce and metal exchanges throughout the
country only assemble to close immediately
after the presiding officers had addressed to
the members a few words of tribute to the
dead monarch.”
 			*	*	*
	In the throne room at the St James palace
a gathering of great men, cabinet ministers,
press commoners, Bishops, Judges, the Lord-
Mayor, etc., including the Duke of York,
the Duke of Connaught and lesser members.
of the royal family, Lord Salisbury, Lord
Rosebury, A. J. Balfour, the Duke of
Devonshire, Lord Strathcona and Mount-
Royal and prominent personages to see the
king take the formal oath, binding him to
govern the kingdom according to law and
customs, and hear him assume the title of
King Edward VII. of Great Britain and
Ireland and Emperor of India. The cere-
mony was according to precedent. The Duke
of Devonshire, Lord-President of the
Council, formally communicated the death of
Queen Victoria and the succession of her
son, the Prince of Wales.
	The Lord Chancellor, Lord Halsbury, ad-

[Column 3]
ministered the oath to the king, afterwards to
the various members of the Council, com-
mencing with the Lords in Council, took the
oath of allegiance and passed in turn before 
his majesty, as at a levee, excepting that each
paused and kissed the king’s hand before
passing out.”
	The King was lustily cheered as he drove
to Marlborough House, the crowd was im-
mense. Opposite the house gates a tall
gentleman raised his hat and shouted “Long
live the king,” when the crowd cheered more
loudly than ever. The king wore a military,
uniform at the ceremonies and his speech was
brief and extemporaneous.
	The proclamation of the accession of His
Majesty was signed by the princes present,
first Duke of York, the Duke of Connaught,
the Duke of Cambridge, Prince Christian,
the Arch-Bishop of Canterbury, the Lord-
Chancellor, the Lord-Mayor and the other
representatives of the city of London.
	At 4:30 p. m. the artillery began firing
salutes in St. James park to signalize King
Edward’s accession to the throne. There
were many other public testimonials of this
royal event.
The sympathy of all nations with the peo-
ple of Great Britain in the death of their
Queen is very apparent by the marks of pub-
lic respect and reverence, business suspended
and flags at half-mast, telegrams from all
nationalities announce the fact, of the love in
which she was held and eulogies of her good-
ness and popularity fill the papers of every
land.
	When the Pope received the news of the
Queen’s death, he dropped on his knees to
pray, remaining several minutes in that atti-
tude. He gave orders that in all the churches
prayers for her majesty be offered the follow-
ing day.
								Editor.


GREAT IN SMALL THINGS.
HOW TO FORGIVE.
Keep the picture of Christ being crucified 
before you, remember these words "Father 
forgive tbem, for they know not what they 
do," or if you have been injured, you know
that you are happier than they who have
wronged you, for it is better to suffer 
wrong than to do wrong. If you were 
acquainted with the circumstances that in-
duced this person to do wrong, you would
undoubtedly say, "I am afraid that I could 
not have done so well had I been in his 
place." Tender him your sympathy and 
be thankful that you are stronger-minded 
and able to combat with temptation better
than he or she, or you have received the 
light of the Gospel, which he has not.
Criticising and finding fault will have its 
effect. When you meet that person again,
whom you have spoken against, there is a 
feeling of dislike, not love or leniency,
which we should have had.
We are all God's children, with all our 
faults and failings, and very liable to yield 
to temptation. If we are not able to do a 
great work, can we not do good in little 
things? always having leniency one with 
another, selecting the good from a person's


character and letting the bad alone; filling
our lives with so much good that the evil
will have no place whatever. By doing
this it will be said of us, as of all good peo-
ple, “I like to be with them, it does me
good, I feel better and happier in their
company, they exert a good influence.”
	‘‘Judge not that ye be not judged.”
Leave it to a higher Judge who is better
able than we are to know how to judge.
Our religion is broad and by studying these
principles of our religion we can become
great in small things. Our influence will
be felt wherever we go, we will be loved
because we have charity and live for others

			A GOOD WOMAN.

	One who on her bed of sickness was, as
she always had been, thinking of others,
had learned that an old book keeper was
out of employment, which worried her.
The Elders were called in to administer to
her. After they had gone, she said, “I am
so sorry, but I was feeling so bad while
they were here that I forgot to ask them if
they could give this brother employment.”
	The second time when they were called
in she thought of it. The employment was
not found but it was taken under advise-
ment and the brother was helped.
	She would also mention some good that
others had done her, which they undoubted-
ly had forgotten. She could most likely
have found a great deal of evil to say of
them had she been looking for it.
	Love begets love, and this was the dis-
position of this good woman, this true Saint
of God, who had all her life been gentle,
kind, sympathetic and forgiving, even to
those who had been thoughtless. Her life
was a lesson to all those who came in con-
tact with her, and they must have felt the
sweet influence of the spirit of meekness
and forbearance. To do good to others was
ever her motto in life. She has passed from
our midst, but her memory is still fresh and
green in the hearts of her children and
grandchildren and all her family, and she
will always be held in honorable remem-
brance among neighbors and friends.
	‘‘Blessed are the dead who die in the
Lord from henceforth, for their works shall
follow them.”
							R. A. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


VISIT IN ST. GEORGE STAKE. 
	Sister Morris and I left St. George with
the missionaries, Brothers William Stirling
and Oscar Bentley, to visit the settlements
south of St. George, November 9, 1900.
We reached Littlefield that evening and
held meeting with the Primary Association,
presided over by Sister Hannah Iverson.
This settlement is a corner of Arizona. We
go on about ten or fifteen miles and find
ourselves in Nevada.
	On the 10th we reached Bunkerville. We
held a meeting with the Primary, Sister
Harriet M. Earl (who is very efficient) pre-
siding. 	We were entertained at Bishop
Edward Bunker’s, who informed us that he
had raised 8,400 pounds of seedless dried
grapes from three acres of land. 	It shows
us what can be done by a systematic way
of working.	Bishop Bunker went, to Cali-
fornia and learned what he could in regard
to raising grapes.
	Sunday morning we met with the Sab-
bath School.	 After the exercises Brother
Stirling talked on the first principles of the
Gospel, followed by Brother Bentley. After


the afternoon meeting we met with the
Relief Society. Read the circular letter in
regard to building a house to hold our
General Conference in, in Salt Lake City.
There was a ready response to it. The
sisters feel to serve the Lord, observe the
Word of Wisdom, pay their tithes and
offerings, attend their prayers and teach
their children to pray.
On the 12th we traveled over to St.
Joseph and held a meeting in the evening.
I believe all the people of the settlement
were there. The brethren gave them the
Gospel in its purity. We had a good time.
On the 13th we went to Overton. We
held a meeting in the forenoon for the people,
in the afternoon for the Relief Society. The
Bishop met with us and we filled vacancies
in the Relief Society and Primary.
On the 14th we went on to St. Thomas,
visited among the sisters. Met in an eve-
ning meeting. Bishop Jones said we had
the spirit of the Lord in our midst.
There is plenty of good land in the
Muddy Valley, and would make homes for
many people if enough would come in to
purchase it.
On the 17th we returned to Bunkerville.
In the evening we held a meeting with the
advanced Primary, the children going
through the exercises very creditably.
On the 16th we went to Musquito Flat.
Here the people are filling up this settlement
very fast. We held two meetings here and
went on to Brother Nephi Johnson’s, where
they are building a very nice house,and par-
took of their hospitality. We arrived at
Littlefield in time to hold an evening meet-
ing.
We reached St. George on the 17th,
having traveled two hundred miles, held
twelve meetings and, we trust, done some
good in urging the sisters to their duty.
 Ann C. Woodbury.


LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
Minntes of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting, Jan. 12 President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Present on the stand, President M. I. 
Horne, Annie T. Hyde, Elizabeth Webb,
S J. Cannon, Julia C. Howe.
	Meeting commenced by singing, "All 
hail the new born year." Prayer by Sister 
Sarah Jane Cannon. Singing, "Come let 
us anew our journey pursue." 
	President Horne welcomed the sisters at 
their first semi-monthly meeting of the new 
year and the new century. Made very 
instructing remarks relative to the prophecies 
of the opening of the new year and new 
century, and concerning this people. Testi-
fied of the goodness of the Lord in assisting 
the people to reclaim the desert places and 
improve this country to which we were led 
by the prophets of the Lord. Prayed for 
the spirit of the Lord on all the people.
	A sister in the congregation testified to 
the goodness of the Lord to her in restoring 
her memory and in answering her prayers 
in many instances. Sister Julia C. Howe
testified of the goodness of the Lord to her.
Was grateful for the preservation of her 
life. Felt that there was a great work for 
her to do in working for her dead. Ac-
knowledged the goodness of the Lord in 
answering her prayers. 
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon considered it a 
privilege to attend these meetings, for the 
words of testimony uttered were a great 
help to her. Hoped we would all live ex-
emplary lives and live so that we would be 
saved in the celestial kingdom.
[column 2]
	Sister Webb thought these meetings 
created a feeling of love among those who
attended. Hoped we would all live so as to 
have faith to meet the trials and scourges 
that were bound to be in our midst and of 
which we will be sure to have a part.
	A sister in the congregation from the 
Twenty-Fourth Ward bore her testimony. 
Sister Annie T. Hyde encouraged the 
sisters to speak, as it not only assisted 
themselves, but helped others. Spoke of 
the necessity of doing Temple work and of 
the great development of science in the past 
century, was sure we could not have an 
idea of what awaited us in the future. Bore 
a faithful testimony to the truth of the 
Gospel.
	A sister in the congregation bore an 
earnest testimony.
	Sister Sophia T. Nuttall said she was 
glad to be present, was especially thankful
for health and the preservation of her life 
and the lives of her children. Felt to praise 
her Heavenly Father and to rejoice in 
the work, and hoped to be able to endure to 
the end.
	Sister Brown thanked her Heavenly 
Father for all the blessings given her, was 
thankful for the privilege of working in the 
Temple. 
A sister from Brighton Ward realized 
that it is a great blessing to live at this 
time, hoped to have strength to do the 
labor devolving on her. Had received 
many testimonies of the truth of the Gos-
pel.
	A sister in the congregation said she 
knew the Lord would open the way for us if 
we earnestly ask him to assist us, made 
other interesting remarks.
	Sister Hardy prayed for strength to re-
main faithful and for assistance to perform 
the duties of life. Was thankful for the 
blessings of the Lord.
	A sister spoke of the blessings of the 
Father to her in giving her a testimony of 
the truth. 
	Sister Mary Silver was glad to be a mem-
ber of the Church, thought we should 
stand firm and keep the commandments 
given us and the covenants we have made. 
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams bore her testi-
mony to the blessings of the Lord which 
are constantly given to His people.
	A sister in the congregation spoke of the 
blessings which she had received from the
Lord.
	Another sister said she had been in the 
Church fifty years. She had a testimony
that this was the work of the Lord. 
Sister Barrow was glad to have a testi-
mony. She was always learning something.
Spoke of the answer to her prayers in giv-
ing health and strength to her children. 
Knew that the Lord did answer prayers,
We must work for the blessings we receive.
	Sister Horne made a few closing remarks.
Said the sisters should study the life of the 
Savior, and we should do as we would like 
to be done by. Spoke of administering to 
the sick, said that those administering 
should have the spirit of the Lord, or the 
sympathy of the one administering might 
impel him to promise blessings which the 
Lord did not see fit to give.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. 	Benediction by Sister
Silver.
	CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, Sec. pro tem.


HON. GEORGE F. HOAR is still the
senior Senator from Massachusetts.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE POET.

His home is on the heights; to him
Men wage a battle weird and dim;
Life is a mission stern as fate,
And Song a dread apostalate. 
The toils of prophecy are his,
To hail the coming centuries—
To ease the steps and lift the load 
Of souls that falter on the road.
The perilous music that he hears
Falls from the voices of the spheres.

He presses on before the race.
And sings out of a silent place, 
Like faint dotes of a forest bird
On heights afar that voice is heard;
And the dim path he breaks today
Will some time be a trodden way.
But when the race comes toiling on,
That voice of wonder will be gone—
Be heard on higher peaks afar,
Moved upward with the morning star.

O, men of earth, that wondering voice 
Still goes the upward way; rejoice!

SELECTED.


[Column One]
A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
SISTER JANE BALLANTYNE TAYLOR.

A mother in Israel has gone to her rest,
	She has said her farewell to loved ones so dear, , 
Across the bright river in realms of the blest,
	She was welcomed by those who loved her while
		here.

Dear friends, do not sorrow, her trials are o’er,
She has fought the good fight, the battle is won,
Anon you will meet her on that golden shore,
And she’ll joyfully echo the plaudit, “Well
		done.”

	For such women as Sister Jane Taylor
there is joy unspeakable in meeting those
hear ones who have gone before, but to
those who remain the loss is great of the
presence in the home. The angelic spirit
that characterized her whole life was more
than an example, it was like sweet incense
the household. She has gone from her
earthly home, we shall hear her sweet voice
no more, nor see her smile of welcome.
	Yet we can never forget her saintly man-
ner and loving spirit, always the same gentle
welcome to her friends.
	As she lay in her white robes in the
beautiful casket, she wore the same sweet
smile and looked like a bride going to the
marriage altar. The floral tributes of
loving children, grandchildren and friends
seemed as fitting for this queenly mother as
though she were indeed going on a wedding
tour. The purity and integrity of her long
life are a bright example to the young
women of Zion.
			 ---------
Sister Jane Ballantyne Taylor was born
April 11, 1813, in Sheffield, near Edinburg,
Scotland. Her father was David Ballantyne
and her mother Annie Bannerman Ballan-
tyne. Richard Ballantyne, famous in
Sunday School work in early days in the
valley, and until his demise, not long ago,
was her brother. The Ballantyne family
embraced the Gospel in Scotland in 1842.
	In 1843 they emigrated to America and
were seven weeks in crossing the ocean to
New Orleans. They went direct to Nauvoo
and February 25, 1844, Miss Ballantyne be-
came the wife of the late President John
Taylor. The marriage ceremony was per-
formed by Patriarch Hyrum Smith. Sister
Taylor shared in all the trials, hardships and
sufferings of the troublous times. At the time
of the exodus irom Nauvoo she crossed the
Mississippi river, walking over it the whole
distance, when at every step the ice cracked
under her feet. The weather was intensely
cold, the Saints were not well provided with
shelter and Sister Taylor, with another

[Column Two]
sister, sat up in a wagon the whole night, as
there was not room to lie down, but no
murmur escaped her lips. During the
arduous journey from Nauvoo to the Mis-
souri river, and the prolonged stay at
Winters Quarters, she, in common with
others, bad much to endure, but her faith
never wavered, she was willing to endure
the trials to gain her experience, and to
earn an exaltation hereafter.
	Her faith in the Gospel was firm and
steadfast, never doubting the goodness of
God, always hopeful and patient under
even the severest trials.
	President Taylor and family came across
the plains from the Missouri river to the
Salt Take Valley in 1847, in the first com-
pany behind the pioneers, so that Sister Jane
Taylor was a real pioneer.
	Annie, her eldest child, was born in
October, 1849, just as her husband was
leaving to go on amission to France, and
the family were very scantily provided for.
But Sister Taylor with her sublime faith
and trust in God was nothing daunted, and
then, as always, thanked God for His good-
ness and trusted on. A noble, heroic
woman, in every way worthy the name of
Saint.
	Her youngest son, David John, died very
suddenly while in New York on business in
the summer of 1881, leaving a young wife
and babe. His mother bore this trial as
she had all others, with heroic complacency,
acknowledging the hand of God even in
this seemingly lamentable occurrence. She
leaves one son, Richard B. Taylor, who
resides in Ogden, and one daughter, Annie,
wife of Alonzo E. Hyde, of this city, many
grandchildren and three great grandchildren.
It was at her daughter’s residence that she
passed away, having resided there ever
since her husband’s death in 1887. Her
children, Richard and Annie, and her eldest
grandchildren were wiih her to the last.
She fell asleep without a struggle on the
morning of Tuesday, December 26, 1900,
at the age of eighty-seven years eight
months and fifteen days. Sister Taylor
leaves one sister almost her own age, Sister
Annie Quayle, of Ogden.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord,
yea, from henceforth, for their works follow
them.”
	Sister Taylor was a woman of generous
impulses and gave much to the needy, and.
she was especially charitable in heir estimate
of the character of others. It is said of her
that she never spoke evil of any one; silence
was her habit when there was gossip or
islander of one’s character, unless she could
refute what was being said. In reviewing
her life, her virtues shine out most conspicu-
ously, though she was of a very retiring
disposition, the old-fashioned type, as
Milton says in “Paradise Lost,”

	“Nothing lovelier can be found.
In woman than to study household good,
	And good works in her husband to promote.”
				---------
	The funeral services were held Thusday,
December 28, at the residence of her
daughter, Bishop George H. Taylor presid-
ing. The opening hymn, “I need Thee
every hour,” was sweetly rendered by a
quartette of male voices. Prayer was offered
by Elder Rodney C. Badger, and the next
hymn very feelingly sung was “Nearer my
God to Thee.”
	The remarks made by the speakers were
appropriate and telling. Bishop Taylor
made opening remarks followed by Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon and Apostle John

[Column Three]

W. Taylor. Then Mrs. Maggie Hull sang
sympathetically, in her clear voice, without
accompaniment, the good old hymn, “I
know that my Redeemer lives.” After-
wards Apostle John Henry Smith and
President Joseph F. Smith made very
consoling and impressive remarks, and
the quartette sang “We shall meet Beyond
the River.” Benediction by Counselor
Arthur Barnes of the Bishopric of the ward.
A large number of people, relatives and
friends followed the deceased to her last
resting place in the city cemetery. The
grave was dedicated by Elder John W.
Taylor.

E. B. W.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Dr. Alice Byram Condict, of Orange,
N. J., after serving eight years as a self-
supporting medical missionary in India, is
how doing medical missionary work m
Manila. She left Bombay three months
ago after exhausting herself caring for the
famine sufferers.”

	Miss Mary G. Hay, who has been for
some years one of the ablest and most
efficient organizers in the ranks of the
National Suffrage Association, has accepted
an important position in the Mutual Life
Insurance Company, where her admirable
business talents will have large scope.

	Miss Estelle Reel, Superintendent of
Indian Education, has just issued her
annual report, from which the following
extracts are made. Since her appointment
26 months ago, Miss Reel has been in the
field 17 months, lias inspected 49 schools,
traveled 41,138 miles, of which 2,087 miles
were covered by wagon, pack horse and
on foot, over lofty mountains, through
dense forests, on remote frontiers and over
rugged trails between precipitous cliffs. 
	Col. T. W. Higginson, accompanied
by Mrs. Higginson, has gone on a two
weeks lecturing tour out West It is many
years now since he has given lectures in
cities outside Boston and vicinity. He
does it now because he feels physically
able. He will speak in Chicago before the
Twentieth Century Club, in Cleveland at
the Northwestern University, offering three
lectures on “American orators and ora-
tory,” and in Minneapolis, Indianapolis
and Akron, O He has also in view a trip
to the Mediterranean, taking in Grenada, 
the Alhambra and Italy, and returning by
way of France and England. His wife and
daughter accompany him. They will sail 
in March.

	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe was an honored
guest at the banquet of the Daughters of
Vermont on the last night of the old year,
and was introduced by the president of the
club, Mrs. Sallie Joy White, as one of
Massachusetts’, America’s and the world’s
loved daughters. Mrs. Howe referred
pleasantly to her visits to Vermont in win-
ter when it was sheathed in ice, and in
summer when it was blooming and green,
and it was always beautiful. She said she
had lived four-fifths of the century just
closing. The country had grown and 
cities sprung up like flowers since she
could remember. “Let us expect the new
century will surpass the one now going
out,” she said. ‘‘Let us expect that all
good things will go forward and surround
[]he world with a bond of p


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparie
	ace one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JAN. 15, & FEB. 1, 1901.


[Column 1]
SOME HAPPENINGS OF THE NEW YEAR.
	President George Q. Cannon’s visit to the
Sandwich Islands to attend the Semi-Centen-
nial celebration of the advent of the Gospel
into that faroff land, was an event of consider-
able significance, and as President Cannon
was one of that company of Elders, though
then a very young man, who first took the
Gospel to that people fifty years ago, it did
seem a fitting tribute to him, that he should
be present and give them the opportunity to
hear him speak in the language he learned at
that time, and it must have been a great
satisfaction to them to see and hear him.
	Those who have read the account of
his trip in the Deseret Evening News know
how delighted the native people were, and
especially the descendants of those who re-
ceived the Elders into their homes at that
time, to have him among them now that he
has attained to such a high position in the
Church and in the nation.
	It was very affecting even to read of the
ovation paid him, and must have been a
most pathetic scene to witness. It reminds
one very forcibly of Longfellow’s salutation to
his college fifty years after, when the class in
Bowdoin college celebrated its semi-centen-
nial. The poem is one of the most beautiful
in the English language.
**Alas, what have I said?
What greetings come there from the voiceless dead?
What salutation, welcome or reply?
What pressure from the hands that lifeless lie?
They are no longer here; they all are gone
Into the land of shadows—all save one.
Honor and reverence, and the good repute
That follows faithful service as its fruit,
Be unto him, whom living we salute.

The great Italian poet, when he made
His dreadful journey to the realms of shade
Met there the old instructor of his youth
And said in tones of pity and of ruth:
“O never from the memory of my heart
Your dear, paternal image shall depart,
Who while on earth, ere yet by death surprised.
Taught me how mortals are immortalized.
***
Today we make the poet’s words our own,
And utter them in plaintive undertone;
Nor to the living only be they said,
But to that other living called the dead,
Whose dear paternal images appear
Not wrapped in gloom but robed in sunshine here;
Whose simple lives complete and without flaw,
Were part and parcel of great Nature’s law,
Who said not to their Lord, as if afraid
"Here is thy talent in a napkin laid,”
But labored in their sphere, as men who live
In the delight that work. alone can give.
Peace be to them, eternal peace and rest,
And the fulfillment of the great behest;
“Ye have been faithful over a few things,
Over ten cities shall ye reign as kings,”

[Column 2]
	Since January 1st of this year, 1901,
time has been busy with its record of notable
happenings. The inauguration of the
Governor of Utah and the State officials
should be mentioned first perhaps, although
the demonstrations were unostentatious, it
was sort of military, Brigadier General John
Q. Cannon, of the National Guard of Utah,
having charge of the affair.
	The official proceedings took place in the
Hall of Representatives, in the City and
County Building, the platform being
appropriately and artistically draped with
flags and banners, the Declaration of
Independence, handsomely framed, hanging
on the wall at the back and over the heads
of the judges and officers of the State.
Held’s Baud discoursed martial music.
General Cannon was Master of Ceremonies.
	Prayer was offered by the Right Reverend
Bishop Scanlan, of the Catholic Church of
this city. Chief Justice Miner, of the
Supreme Court of Utah, administered the
oath of office in the formal manner to the
State officers, except the Governor, who
then proceeded to give his inaugural address,
and after the conclusion of the address,
which was a very able document, and when
the applause had subsided, the Chief Justice
administered the oath to the Governor, and
General Cannon announced the Governor of
Utah and gave the signal for a salute of
seventeen guns. The cannon boomed just
at the hour of twelve and the band followed
with “America,” the audience rising in re-
sponse to the national air, and the great and
grand ceremonies of State were over.
	Congratulations and handshaking fol-
lowed. The day was very stormy but all
passed off pleasantly nevertheless. Better
storms without than storms within, and one
cannot help feeling it a good omen to open
a new century so auspiciously as
Utah has by ushering in its new officers of
State with such general good feeling by all
political parties and the people concerned in
its welfare.
	Elaborate preparations had been made for
an inaugural ball to finish the day’s exer-
cises, and the Salt Lake Theatre had been
decorated profusely with flags, banners,
bunting and colored electric lights; an
immense bee hive, the State emblem con-
spicuously placed in the centre of the first
circle, opposite to the platform, added much
to the attractive features.
	Many mottoes were arranged in the colors
of lights and were very handsome, as well
as significant. The ball was given by “the
National Guard of Utah in honor of the
Governor, Heber M. Wells and the State
officers of Utah.” It was a superb affair,
and most enjoyable. Printed programs,
on the cover the bee hive and monogram of
the N. G. U. in blue and gold, encircled by
the sego lily (the State flower) and below the
words “Inaugural Ball,” with arrows
crossed underneath and finished with the
figures, 1901.
	The Governor’s staff and officers of the
National Guard were in uniform, which
added greatly to the attractions of the
scene on the floor, although, of course, the
Governor himself was the great attraction,
not even the brilliant ladies in their elabor-
ate toilettes, outshining him on this festive
occasion.

	The Legislature of the State of Utah con-
vened on Monday, January 14, and have
been in regular session since that time.
An effort was made, as there were no

[Column 3]
women members, to get the Senate to
appoint a woman chaplain, but it was not
successful.
	The electing of a United States Senator
has occupied the attention of the general
public, as naturally it should, and feeling
that matter to be a most important one,
finally, after voting for this and that candi-
date, the Republican members of the
Legislature in joint session, on Wednesday
at high noon, January 23, elecedt Hon.
Thomas Kearns United States Senator for
Utah, with the entire vote of the House
and Senate, thirty-seven in all. The
Democrats, true to their party, honored
A. W. McCune by casting the whole num-
ber of their votes for him. A committee
of two was appointed from both the Senate
and the House to conduct the Governor
and one of the Supreme Court Judges to
Senator Kearns, and present him to the
joint assembly.
	While awaiting the arrival of Senator
Kearns, Senator Smoot reminded the
Legislature that they had been notified of
the death of the greatest sovereign the
world had ever known, and thought it
proper for the Legislature to adjourn in
honor of Queen Victoria, and offered
Resolutions of sympathy.
	At 1:25 the Governor came into the hall
and introduced Senator Kearns, who briefly
addressed the Members of the Legislature
and Friends.
	“No man could receive so high an honor
as that you have just conferred upon me
without feeling a deep sense of gratitude.
To say that I thank you from the bottom
of my heart but feebly expresses my feel-
ings at this time. I am no orator. I am
but a plain, blunt man, and what I lack in
oratory I hope to make up in action. I
promise you now that so far as lies in my
power I shall do everything possible to
maintain the honor and integrity of our
beloved State, and my hig[-]est ambition
will be gratified if I can advance Utah’s
material interests and place her in the
forefront of western States. Again I thank
you.”
	The Governor said in part:
	“I have known Mr. Kearns for many
years and found him to be an example of
integrity, good citizenship and splendid
executive ability; He has risen from the
pick and drill, from what might be called
the bucket brigade, to his present high
commercial standing by his own efforts.
I have no fear as to the results of his
election as Senator. I do not fear that
that there will be blood on the moon or
that the earth will stop revolving on its
axis. He may not be long on oratory, but
he will make up for this lack in his other
sterling qualities, and I have no doubt will
prove a credit to our State.”
	Justice Miner of the Supreme Court then
said a few words on the choice of the new
Senator. He said that he believed in the
selection that had been made we would
have for Senator a business man of sterling
quality and a man of character who would
reflect honor on the State-


MRS. EVANGELINE HEARTZ, member of
the Colorado House of Representatives,
has been made chairman of the committee
on enrollment and a member of the com-
mittee on appropriations and expenditures,
education, State institutions, temperance
and public health.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A WORD OF LOVE AND GREETING.

TO THE OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF THE
	RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF
	JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS.

Dearly beloved Sisters, both far and near:

	With hearts full of gratitude and bless-
ings, we desire to offer you a few of our
thoughts and reflections concerning the
great work in which we, as daughters of our
Heavenly Father, are privileged to be en-
gaged.
	Were circumstances such as to permit of
our doing so, we should greatly rejoice in
visiting personally every branch of our
society, in speaking words of encourage-
ment, and where necessary offering sugges-
tions, and, perhaps, instructions, and in
shaking hands with every member; and
even the young ladies and the little chil-
dren who are to continue the work after us.
But in as much as it is impossible for us to
do this, we have decided to express our-
selves by means of writing. That you
may understand that our hearts are ever
full of loving appreciation of your faithful
and far-reaching labors and of prayers and
blessings for you all.
	To begin with, we bear you our testi-
mony that the work we are engaged in is
of God. That the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints and the Relief Society,
which is a portion of that Church, were
organized by the Prophet of the Lord. That
we knew Joseph Smith personally, and saw
and heard him many times speaking to the
Saints when he was so filled with the Spirit
of the Lord that his countenance became
transparent, and he looked and spoke like a
heavenly being. And the Holy Ghost bore
witness to us that Joseph Smith was a true
prophet of the living God.
	We desire to leave this testimony with
you all, and to have you understand and re-
member that the Prophet of the Lord organ-
ized our Relief Society that we might have the
glorious privilege of doing the same kind of
work that our Lord and Savior did when
He was upon this earth.
	We all know that he was interested in
looking after the sick and the afflicted, the
poor and the needy, the deaf and the dumb,
the blind and all who were discouraged or
in any way troubled. We should do all
these things cheerfully, according to the
beautiful example He has set for us, with
patience and long suffering, such as con-
tinued with Him to the last.
	Questions are often asked concerning the
requisite of a Relief Society president and
other officers of the organization. We may
answer that the holding of the sacred posi-
tion of President over a Relief Society is a
very responsible calling. It means much
besides the honor that may be attached to it.
It means constant care and solicitude, as
well as actual labor with head and hands
to keep all matters pertaining to the society
straight and right; to see that there is no
suffering of any kind in any quarter, over
which she has supervision, that there is a
possibility of relieving.
	When a sister accepts the position of
president over a Relief Society; she should
endeavor to fully consider the importance of
that position. The charitable, loving,
Gospel feelings which she must cherish to-
wards her counselors, the other officers and
all members of the Society. And the coun-
selors should be one with the president, al-
ways sustaining and upholding her in their
various duties. The president should als<o>

[Column 2]
respect her counselors, consulting with
them freely, the three being truly united, 
working in harmony, dividing responsibili-
ties and labors so that none shall be over-
taxed where it can be avoided, ever remem-
bering the Savior’s words to His disciples,
“Be ye one.”
	“He that thinketh he is something when
he is nothing, deceiveth himself.” This
passage of scripture expresses a sentiment
which we should never lose sight of. For
we are all as nothing, except the Spirit of
the Lord enlightens and helps us. If we
have not that Spirit to enable us to under-
stand and perform our duties we are not
prepared for Relief Society work; neither
can we become useful in the kingdom of
God in any capacity without the companion-
ship and assistance of His Holy Spirit. We
want to bear in mind constantly that “of
ourselves we are nothing.” We are but
frail instruments in God’s hands to assist in
His work.
	Never feel that one is of superior worth to
her neighbor, but that each is necessary in
her place. Those who hold office should
be more humble even than others. Who
should set the example of humilty, long-
suffering and charity for the failings of
others in the home but the mother? And
who in the Relief Society but the president?
And as with the president so with the
counselors, and indeed, all the other officers.
	And then: every member in the society
should consider it her duty and privilege to
uphold and assist by every means at her
disposal, the officers of the society to which
she belongs; just as a loving, faithful
daughter in the home should seek to relieve
the heavily burdened mother, as much as
possible, of her anxieties and re-
sponsibilities.
	The sisters should meet together often,
and a good, reliable record should be kept
of all that is done. A competent Secretary
is a most important factor in a society. The
Treasurer’s office is also a weighty one, and
must be filled by careful selection.
	And the teachers—oh what a responsible
position the teachers hold! How much
they require the Spirit of the Lord to help
them in their duties! Their visits to the
sisters must ever be in all kindness, love
and sympathy, to comfort, encourage and
relieve all suffering ones. Wisdom and
discretion should be among their gifts.
	These requisites, which we have but
briefly mentioned are some of the qualifica-
tions necessary to make capable officers in
the Relief Society. It is not to be supposed
that when appointed to office every sister
will be fully prepared to undertake her
duties without the probability of making
mistakes. But we must be willing to
learn and never be discouraged because of
some failures.
	The officers of a society must consult to-
gether, instructing and edifying each other
so that all may come to understand the re-
quirements of their positions.
	And here we will say, that misunder-
standings and disagreements which may arise
in the society, the sisters should settle in all
kindness, quietly and effectually among
themselves. They are an organized society
and should have the power and grace to ad-
just their own difficulties. Where they lack
wisdom, let them ask of God, who giveth
liberally and upbraideth not, and it will be
given.
	Among our young people, a knowledge
of the design of our Relief Society work
should be made more general than it is,

[Column 3]
Our children, sons as well as daughters
should be encouraged to visit our meetings
at least occasionally, that they may better
understand the purposes of this organization
to which their mothers belong.
	Hoping, dear sisters, that in the near
future we shall have the opportunity of
communicating further with you on these
most important subjects, we will now con-
clude by again extending to you our heart-
felt love and blessings, ever praying for
your welfare and happiness and the con-
tinued success and growth of our mutual
work.
	Your sincere sisters and colaborers,
				ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
				JANE S. RICHARDS,
				BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
				SARAH J. CANNON.


NATIONAL LIVE STOCK CONVENTION.
	Great preparations were made in the
city for the National Live Stock Conven-
tion, held here the third week in January.
Business houses and all public buildings
were profusely decorated, and the Electric
Light Company did much to enhance the
beauty of the night with the colored
lights ingeniously strung here and there.
The Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in which
the Convention was held, was a dazzling
scene of splendor by night and more elabor-
atety decorated than ever before, the
heads and horns of cattle making it very
picturesque, and the seals of all the States
arranged around the gallery, were very
interesting indeed.
	The reception at the Knutsford Tuesday
evening the 15th, was a grand affair, both
for strangers and citizens. The Governor
and a few of the ladies committee (his
staff, and Gen Cannon of the N. G. U., in
uniform) received the guests in the center
of the parlor, which was very handsomely
and elaborately decorated in honor of the
ladies and gentlemen of the Convention.
Other rooms were beautifully decorated as
well as the dancing hall, which was a scene
of beauty. The music was very fine and
the evening passed pleasantly, notwith-
standing the immense crowd.
	Much credit is due the General Commit-
tee, of which the Governor was chairman,
and Mrs. Holmes, who furnished all the
beautiful flowers that made the rooms so
attractive.
	The receptions in private residences
given to the ladies of the party, were all
very pleasant affairs,and one hopes a happy
remembrance of Salt Lake City to these
lady visitors from all parts of the United
States.
	On Friday afternoon, January 18, Mrs.
Thompson and other ladies at the Mayor’s
residence, Mrs. McCornick and ladies at her
elegant home, and Mrs. Snow at the Bee
Hive, with a few of her friends,opened their
homes from 2 to 5 to the visitors of the
party making the occasion as festive as such
formal entertainments can be by furnishing
the best of music and appropriate drapery
and decorating for the time and occasion.
	At the Bee Hive, which is a historic house
built early in the settlement of Salt Lake
City, a program of the songs and music had
been printed, and each guest was given one
as a souvenir of the occasion. Some of the
best talent of the city gave both vocal and
instrumental selections from the greatest
composers.
	So many things have transpired during


the first month of the new year that it is
impossible to do justice to the subject un-
less one had more space or a daily paper.


78					WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
	    R. S AND P. A. REPORTS.

		MARICOPA STAKE,

	The Relief Society conference of the
Maricopa Stake was held in the
Mesa Relief Society hall, Decem-
ber 20, 1900, Stake President Mabel Ann
Hakes presiding. Meeting opened with the
usual exercises, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m.,
attendance of thirty-four officers besides the
members.
	The wards were all represented and re-
ported with one exception. The instruc-
tions were timely and such as would elevate
mankind. The subjects mostly dwelt upon
were the moral lives of ourselves and chil-
dren; reverence for the Gospel; the duties
of the Relief Society, both financially and
spiritually; restitution should not be put off
until tomorrow, also many strong testi-
monies were borne to the divinity of the
Gospel. We had a glorious conference. Ad-
journed for three months.
				ANNA E. FULLER, Sec.

		PUEBLO, COLORADO.

	The Relief Society of Pueblo, Colorado
celebrated the second anniversary of the
organization, on Tuesday, December 4,
1900. It had been organized two years on
July 3, but on account of sickness and
deaths, we concluded to put it off for
awhile. The sisters arranged a program to
be followed by refreshments. The admit-
tance was by invitation, and the hall was
quite comfortably filled.
	President Lizzie Hart welcomed the
guests, of whom a great number do not be-
long to our faith but attend meetings
regularly, we had given them invitations
and President Hart gave each gentleman a
white buttonhole Bouquet souvenir.
	First Counselor Amanda Coleman took
charge of the program. The sisters whose
names were on the program all did their
parts well. Several of the brethren spoke
and said they were certainly surprised at
the growth of the society, which now num-
bers three times as many as when it was
organized; also our Bishop, John T. Hart
was present and he spoke briefly on the
organization of our Relief Society and gave
us some good instructions which were very
encouraging to the sisters. While refresh-
ments were being laid on the tables by
Counselor Lillie Coleman, assisted by
Treasurer Turner, John Sessions and Sister
Sarah Hall, President Harts's son, Willie,
entertained the company with selections on
the phonograph. After the tables were
spread with every bounty that heart could
desire the guests were waited upon by three
charming young sisters, Martha and Maud
Hall and Bessie Coleman, assisted by
Brother Carl Frank Coleman, James T.
Johnson and Claude Betenburger.
	After supper there was singing by the
company, and they each laid every care
aside and expressed themselves as feeling
that it was the most enjoyable affair that
they had attended, which greatly encouraged
the sisters of the society, as every one had
worked faithfully to make it a success.
	Benediction was pronounced and all left
for their homes feeling happy.
AMANDA COLEMAN, Asst. Sec.
[column 2]
	PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	Minutes of Primary Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake, held in the Assembly
Hall, December 15, 1900, President Cam-
illa C. Cobb presiding.
	On the stand with President Cobb were
her counselors, Lydia A. Wells and Mary
L. Morris and aids, President Louie B.
Felt, Counselor Lillie T. Freeze and May
Anderson, secretary of the General Board.
	Meeting opened by singing "Open the
door for the children." Prayer by Master
James Hooper. Singing, "Did you think
to pray." Roll called, twenty-one Presidents
responding with sentiments. Minutes of
previous conference read and approved.
The program was carried out as follows:
"Story of the Life of the Savior," by
the Nineteenth ward Primary.
	Song by Edith Grant, "A Miracle."
"The Widow of Nain" was repeated by
Master Pruette Goddard.
	Song, "Think of These Things," by
members of the Ninth Ward Primary.
	Recitation by Mercy Bywater, and song
by Katie Martin of the same ward.
	An address on the duties of the children
was given by Master Woolley.
	The parable, "The lillies of the field,"
was repeated by Mary Grant.
	An exercise on the "Book of Mormon"
was given by members of the Twenty-Fourth
Ward Primary.
	Song by Leah Ashton.
	Recitation and song, "The Rosebud,"
by four little girls from the Third Ward.
	Sister Olive Derbidge told a pleasing
Christmas story, which was very much en-
joyed by the children, after which Master
Asper gave a selection on the organ.
	President Felt then addressed the confer-
ence. Said she had listened with pleasure
to the exercises. Told the children that if
they wanted to be happy on Christmas day
they should visit the poor and the families
of missionaries, and try to make them hap-
py. Said as there were so many sick in
our midst would give them a mission to
pray for them.
	Veda Jones gave a recitation, entitled,
"Uncle Pete's Plea."
Counselor Lillie T. Freeze spoke to the
children. Asked them to carry out in their
lives the sentiment, "Whatsoever ye would
have others do to you, do ye even so to
them," and make it their life's lesson; and
also told them they should try to make
some one happy on Christmas day. Felt to
bless teachers and children.
	After singing, "We thank Thee, O God,
for a prophet," conference was adjourned
for three months. Benediction by Brother
Goddard.
	At the close of the conference packets of
candy were distributed to the children.
				ELLA W. HYDE, Sec.

	FRISCO RELIEF SOCIETY.

	In obedience to a call from Stake Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Beaver
Stake, Sister C. C. Shepherd, the sisters
and a fair showing of the brethren met in
the Frisco school house August  1900, at
9:30 a. m., with a view of organizing a
society.
	Elder William Ashworth presided. The
congregation sang "We thank Thee, O
God, for a prophet." Brother S. A. Chase
offered the opening prayer. Singing,
"Redeemer of Israel."
Brother Ashworth spoke of organization
[column 3]
and reminded us that we were here to do
good, then turned the meeting into the
hands of the sisters.
	President Shepherd was pleased to see so
many present, but would have been better
pleased if there had been more. Said they
were instructed to come and organize, if the
people wanted. a Relief Society, thought
much good could be done here. "If the
sisters will do their duty the Lord will
bless them and they can do a great deal of
good."
Brother Ashworth put a vote to find how
many were willing to organize, and all were
favorable.
	Then came the question of a president
and Sister Adams nominated Sister Matilda
Olsen. A vote was finally taken and Sister
Olsen unanimously sustained.
	Comments were made and a vote taken
that we have one organization and hold
meetings alternately here and at the mine.
	Sister Olsen chose as counselors Sister
M. E. Adams and Sister Crassiah Jones.
	A secretary was called for, but the matter
was deferred. Sister Margaret Jones was
chosen treasurer.
	Matilda Olsen was then set apart as
president, Sister M. E. Adams as first
counselor, Sister Crassiah Jones as second
counselor and Sister Margaret Jones as
treasurer.
	It was then moved and seconded that
Sister Clara Griffith be secretary. Carried.
She was set apart.
	Sister M. A. White spoke, showing how
we should love each other and our God.
True happiness comes of God. The Lord
has always compassion with the sinner.
Our heavenly Father is the only judge. We
must exert our energies that we may fulfill
our duties. Was pleased with the election
of the president. People of energy are al-
ways busy. We must be wide awake
mothers and try to make our children better
than ourselves. Try to realize the responsi-
bility of motherhood. Spoke at length on
cheerfulness and control of self. Instil
truth and purity into our children. We
have duties to the sick and distressed.
Prayed God to bless our organization.
	Congregation sang "There is beauty all
around." Benediction by Brother William
Ashworth.
			SARAH GRIFFITH, Sec.


OBITUARY.
SISTER SARAH S. HARDER.
 	Sister Sarah S. Harder died at her residence in
Kamas, Summit Co., October 28, 1900, after a long
and painful illness and severe suffering for five
months.
	She was born in Portsmouth, England, March 3,
1840, and was the daughter of Stephen and Eliza-
beth Biddlecome Spicer, and the wife of [-]illet S.
Harder. She leaves a husband, two married
daughters, seven grandchildren and many friends
to mourn her loss. Two sons preceded her to the
great beyond. She was a faithful member of the
Kamas Relief Society for many years.
	Sister Harder was set apart as assistant secretary
on March 7, 1881, and appointed secretary of the
same society on June 10, 1895, which position she
held until her death. Her Relief Society work
was well and faithfully done and stands to her
honor. She came to Utah in 1863, and crossed the
plains in Rosel Hyde’s company.
		M. L. WOOLSTENHULME, Stake Sec.
SKETCH AND RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolutions adopted by the officers and mem-
bers of the Georgetown Relief Society in honor of,
their beloved sister, Hetta Emeline Welker Dunn,
who departed this life Nov. 17, 1900, at her home
after an illness of many years of lung trouble. 
	Sister Dunn was born in the State of Iowa,


[Column 1]
November 1, 1848. She was a faithful Latter-day
Saint, and as such we mourn her departure. She
was president of the Young Ladies’ Association in
Bloomington (her former home) for ten years, and
second counselor in the Georgetown Relief Society,
which position she filled with honor until her health
failed and she resigned her position as counselor.
	She was of a quiet, retiring disposition, yet
always willing to do her duty. She was the
mother of eight children, three sons and five
daughters, all of whom attended her funeral ex-
cepting one son. who resides in Canada and did
not arrive in time to see his beloved mother, and
drop one tear of sorrow on her marble brow.
	Resolved, That as our Heavenly Father has
taken our beloved sister to her heavenly home,
that we desire to emulate her noble example, and
that we herewith express our heartfelt sympathy
for her bereaved husband and children. Be it
fnrther
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed on
the record of the society, a copy be sent to the
family and one to the Woman’s Exponent for
publication. 
			SUSAN E. THOMPSON, Pres.
MARY CRAIGG PETERSON.
	Sister Mary Craigg Peterson, who, after an ill-
ness of several months, of dropsy, departed this
life November 11, 1900.
	Sister Peterson was born in Denmark, May 20,
1863. After embracing the Gospel she came to
Zion to mingle with the chosen people of God. She
leaves a husband and four children, three sons and
one daughter the youngest child being a boy six
months old.
	Sister Mary was a faithful worker as a teacher
in the Pleasant Green Ward Relief Society, of Salt
Lake Stake of Zion. She never shrank beneath
the responsibilities of her duties in the cause of
trnth.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from
henceforth, yea. they rest from their labors and
their works do follow them.”
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved. That as God in His in[--]ite wisdom
saw fit to call our beloved sister to the Great
Beyond, we all share in the grief of her departure
from us, yet joy when we think of her being in
happiness in her heavenly home.
	That we will miss her as a faithful worker and a
dear associate.
	That we present a copy of these resolutions to
her bereaved husband and family, to her mother,
one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication and
one be placed on file in the Relief Society record
book.
					ALVIRA S. HIRST, Pres.
ANNIE LAZENBY.
	Sister Annie Lazenby died at her home in Loa,
Utah, October 29, 1900. She was the daughter of
[-]ohn Tether and Phebe Oads Tether. She was
born at Thorn, near Doncaster, England, June
30, 1845, joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. June 1866, was baptized by
Elder Fulmer and came to Utah in 1868 on the
good ship Constitution. She crossed the plains
from the Platte River, walking most of the way.
There were sixty wagons drawn by oxen. Cap-
tain John Gallispie’s company arrived in Salt Lake
City in September, where she took a room near
Brother Betson Eardley in the seventh Ward.
	She was married to John T. Lazenby by D. H.
Wells in the Endowment House, March 17, 1869,
and went with her husband to the railroad at the
mouth of Weber canyon on J. W, Young’s con-
tract. They moved to Pleasant Grove June 1869,
and to Minersville Nov. 1869, and came to Fre-
mont Valley Nov. 1878, and located at Loa, which
was then a part of Grass Valley Ward, the in-
habitants at that time being mostly Indians.
	She was a faithful Latter-day Saint, was the
mother of three sons and six daughters. One son
and one daughter preceded her to the better land.
She leaves a husband and two sons (one of whom
is now on a mission to South Carolina) and five
daughters to revere her memory.
	She was a teacher in the Loa Relief Society ever
since its organization until her health was so poor
she could not go as a teacher any longer, but was
always a faithful, energetic woman. She was an
invalid for about five years before her death.
					M. J. TAYLOR, Pres.
ANNA CHRISTINE MARIA PALLISEN JANSEN.
	Sister Anna Christine Maria Pallisen Jansen,
widow of the late A. A. Jansen, of the Third Ward
of Brigham City, died Monday, September 17, at
9:15 p. m., of dropsy, after a lingering illness.

[Column 2]
	She was born October 27, 1838, in Norie, Konges-
lov, Niborg, Amt, Denmark, and joined the Latter-
day Saints when eighteen years of age. She came
to Utah in 1858, settled in Brigham City in 1859.
	She was the mother of four children, two
daughters surviving her.
	She was called and acted as teacher in the Re-
lief Society in 1876 and on March 13, 1878, was
called as second counselor to Mary Stark, which
position she held until she was called to preside
over the Relief Society of the Third Ward, Feb.
25, 1896, which position she held with honor until
a few months before her death, when her failing
health caused her to request and obtain honorable
release.
	She died as she had lived, a true and faithful
Latter-day Saint. Her many friends will miss her,
still to know that her sufferings are passed became
a comfort to those who loved her, and that she is
now enjoying sweet rest.
	The following resolutions were unanimously
adopted at a recent meeting of the Relief Society
of the Third Ward of Brigham City.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in
His infinite love and mercy to call home our be
loved president. Sister Anna Christine Maria
Pallisen Jansen, therefore be it
	Resolved, That in her death we have lost an
earnest and faithful president and worker of the
Relief Society, one who was ever ready to help the
needy and give words of sympathy to those in
trouble.
	That we, her co-laborers, have lost a true, loving
sister, and that we will miss her words of wis-
dom and advice. But we know that God doeth all
things we[-]l, and while we miss her here, she is
happy with her husband and friends in the
eternal world.
	That we express our love and gratitude for
her unceasing labors, present a copy of these
resolutions to her bereaved family, and also that a
copy be sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publi-
cation and a copy be placed on file in the ward
record book.
			ANNA S. THOMPSON, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NEW HALL DEDICATED.
	Minutes of a meeting of the Relief Society
of the Oakley Ward, Cassia Co.. Idaho,
held in the new society hall, the principal
object being the dedication of the building
to the purpose for which it was erected,
President Isabel Martindale presiding.
	Singing by the congregation, “The
happy day is rolling on.” Opening prayer
by Patriarch Franklin Brim. Singing,
“Behold the Savior of mankind.”
	President Martindale felt pleased that the
hall had been so far completed that we could
have it dedicated, and knew that the Lord
had blessed the society in the endeavor
to build a comfortable place fo meet in.
	She then called upon Stake President
Wm. T. Jack to offer the dedicatory prayer.
	President Wm. T. Harper hoped that the
spirit of God would continue with the
meeting as it had to the present. Said
that he sometimes thought that if it were
not for the great mercy of our Heavenly
Father, it would be useles, for us to attempt
to do good, as we so often failed; but God
is full of charity and mercy and is long-
suffering, and is willing to help us as long
as we have a spirit of repentance and are
willing to go before our Father in heaven
and acknowledge our sins and ask Him in
faith for the blessings we need, for the time
is fast coming when we must live by faith,
such faith that we can go before God with-
out doubt, knowing that we will receive
the blessing that we need. It is this power
that is going to make us great on the earth.
Read a few paragraphs from the Doctrine
and Covenants regarding the responsibility
of parents in teaching their children the
principles of the Gospel, and the conse-
quence of a failure on the part of the parents
in Zion in not teaching their children these

[Column 2]
principles, and seeing to it that all children
in Zion are acquainted with the same and
are baptized at the age of eight years. He
urged the young ladies and young men of
Israel to be careful in selecting their life
companion, that they marry only those who
are full of the spirit of the Gospel, that the
fruits of their union may grow up full of
the spirit of God. This condition cannot
be brought about when one of the parents
is opposed to the Church of Jesus Christ.
Asked the blessings of the Lord upon the
sisters especially and the Saints in general,
that we may all feel the importance of living
the lives of Latter-day Saints.
	President Martindale then called upon
Stake President Louisa Haight, of the
Relief Society.
	Sister Haight was glad in meeting with
sisters, and that they had been blessed so
much that they had been able to build so
beautiful a hall, and that it was so nearly
out of debt.
	The Bishop’s counselor, T. W. Robbins,
congratulated the sisters on the haste in
which they had been enabled to complete
their building, and was also greatly inter-
ested in the remarks of President Harper
regarding the responsibility of the parents
in Israel teaching their children the princi-
ples of the Gospel, and the fact that if any
of our children, through our failure to do
these things, should prove untrue to the
principles of truth, that God would require
their sins at our hands, or rather would
visit their sins upon our heads. Asked the
blessing of the Lord upon those who had
labored so hard to complete their building;
also upon all the officers, both ward and
Stake, and upon all that had a desire to
further the kingdom of God.
	Brother George Craner, who had labored
so hard as a member of the building com-
mittee, was called upon to speak a few
words. He referred to the adverse con-
ditions the committee had to meet during
the erection of the building. Said that
there was almost enough money on hand to
settle for the building.
	President Martindale felt pleased with the
spirit manifest during the meeting and for
the many good instructions given by the
brethren. Said that the sisters had always
been willing to do their part in the erection
of the building or any other labor required
of them.
	Brother George Craner proposed a vote of
thanks to Brother George Bunn for the
energy displayed in laying the brick.
Carried.
	Singing, “Come go with me beyond the
sea.” Benediction by Brother George
Bunn.
				J. N. PRICE, Sec. pro tem.


RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORTS.
	The time has come for annual reports and
it is important that reports be sent in as soon
as possible after the close of 1900. It is not
only necessary to have Stake reports, but
wherever a Relief Society has been organized
outside Stakes, whether in the United States,
British Empire, Scandinavia, Germany,
Switzerland, Holland, the islands of the sea,
reports for the year 1900, from January 1
to December 31, are expected at head-
quarters.
			E. B. WELLS,
				General Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ONEIDA STAKE.
	Minutes of the semi-annual conference of
the Relief Society of Oneida Stake, held in
the Preston meeting house, November 10,
1900, President Louisa B. Benson presiding. 
Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Prayer was offered by President
Susan Grant, of Davis County. Singing,
“O, say what is truth.” Roll called, show-
ing, of Stake Board, President Louisa B.
Benson, Second Counselor Hannah Mickle-
sen and Secretary Elise B. Alder. First
Counselor Martha Lawiscli had been called
to Provo on account of death in the family.
Local presidents, ten answered and one sent
a written report.
	Minutes of the morning session of last
conference were read and approved.
	Of the priesthood there were present,
President George C. Parkinson and Brother
Peter Micklesen, of Weston; Bishop George
T. Benson and Brother William Tanner, of
Whitney.
	President Louisa B. Benson asked for the
sympathy and prayers of the sisters. Re-
ported the Stake Board as united, holding
officers’ meetings monthly also hold meet-
ing s quarterly with local officers. “We have
thirteen branches of the Relief Society. At
our last meeting ail the local presidents
were present but three. Since that time I
have met two of these, so that I can report
all the branches of the society but one,
Treasureton, expect to visit that one the
coming Monday. All are doing fairly well.
The attendance at the meetings is not what
we would like it to be, but hope the sisters
will awaken to the necessity of doing their
duty. Some have been very energetic,
having accomplished more work during the
past few months than ever before. This has
especially been the case with Preston
and Franklin. The presidents are ener-
getic and willing to do their duty. There
is a spirit of improvement manifest in our
officers’ meetings. President Susan Grant,
one of the General Board, is with us today,
has kindly come to accompany us in our
tour around the Stake to visit all the
branches. Brother Nuttall was expected,
but owing to circumstances over which he
had no control, had to postpone his visit un-
til next spring. Sister Grant and myself
have visited four branches since we met in
Franklin last Thursday, and we expect to
continue after conference until we have
held meetings with all.”
	Sister Grant said: “It is not good to talk
of our weaknesses, it gives the adversary
power over us. She was pleased to see the
priesthood with us. Had felt blessed in
visiting this Stake so far, had met so many
good brothers and sisters. It is our mission
to administer comfort to our sisters. Teach-
ers should be faithful, so that when visiting
they can stimulate others to faithfulness.
Spoke of the training of children. We
should always be subject to those who are
placed over us. The Prophet Joseph Smith
said that the duty of the Relief Society
was to save souls and to encourage their
husbands in the performance of their duties,

[Column 2]
as well as to look after the poor and afflicted.
Spoke of the law of tithing, it has been
neglected in the past, and the Lord has
been displeased with us. Spoke of the
storing of grain. Felt to reverence the
priesthood of God.
	A vocal solo, “Should you feel inclined
to censure,” was given by Sister Dora
Geddes.
	Counselor Hannah Micklesen expressed
her willingness to do whatever she was
called to do by those who are placed over
her. Thought the Relief Society was a
benefit to all.
	Sister Nellie Parkinson recited, with
much feeling, “A Thread of Thought,”
composed by Sister L. G. Richards.
	President George C. Parkinson was
pleased to be with us. He had enjoyed
the timely remarks of Sister Grant. What
glorious opportunities we have, how
wonderfully we have progressed. Referred
to the beautiful recitation given and en-
couraged mothers to trust in the Lord.
	President L. Benson spoke of the beauties
of motherhood. We have heavy burdens to
bear, but we take up our cross and are
thankful that we have been permitted to
live in this day, if we can only see our
children serving the Lord. The subject of
Sabbath breaking had just come to her
mind. Are we raising Sabbath breakers?
As mothers are we setting an example
worthy of imitation in this respect? Are
we trying to prepare for the Sabbath the
day before, that the Sunday may be a day
of rest and still our children be cared for?
	Meeting adjourned until two p. m. Sing-
ing, “Lo the mighty God appearing.”
Benediction by Brother Peter Mickelson.
	Afternoon session, two o’clock p. m
Singing, “Now let us rejoice.” Prayer by
Brother Joseph Geddes. Singing, “How
firm a foundation.” Minutes of the after-
noon session of last conference were read
and accepted. A circular letter from the
General Beard concerning the conjoint
building to be erected in Salt Lake City for
the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and
Primary, was read by the secretary. Presi-
dent Benson fully explained the same. The
General and Stake Relief Society officers
were sustained.
	Vocal solo, “Daughters of Zion,” by
Lula B. Parkinson.
	Sister Grant said: “We always have to
depend on the Lord when we speak.” She
had enjoyed the singing. Encouraged the
mothers to teach their children to sing and
told of Apostle Heber J. Grant’s persever-
ance in learning to sing. She had lived in
the time of the Prophet Joseph Smith and
looked forward with pleasure to the time
when she would meet him again and be
recognized by him. Related some instances
of her early life in the Church. Encouraged
the keeping of the Word of Wisdom. Spoke
of and explained the ten cent fund. Gave
an interesting outline of the plans of the
conjoint building, explained its objects and
how much it was needed by the daughters
of Zion. Bishop John Larsen, of Preston,
felt well in meeting with us, found the sis-

[Column 3]
ters to be better Latter-day Saints than the
brethren. He had enjoyed the remarks.
	President Joseph Geddes always enjoyed
hearing the sisters speak, especially those
who had lived in the time of the Prophet
Joseph. This is a work of great magnitude,
the sisters seem awake to their calling.
	Sister Phebe McNeil, President of Fair-
view Relief Society, spoke a short time.
She had been much pleased with the in-
structions we had received during the con-
ference, especially wtth what had been said
in regard to Sabbath breaking.
	Conference was adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Come thou glorious day of
promise.” Benediction by Brother Joseph
Geddes.
			ELISE B. ALDER, Sec.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for you money. 						TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah. 
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts. 
		The laws of Utah permit married 
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar [---] thousands, and compute said
	int[--]est four times a year
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest. 
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street. 

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
OREGON SHORT LINE
	RAILROAD. 
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . . . .
See that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the best

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles,			D. E. Burley,
	Gen. Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. &T A.


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
Vol. 29	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15 & MARCH 1, 1901.	Nos. 18 & 19


CONTENT.
Home and Ideals.............Alice Merrill Horne	81
Bazar Letter..................Carrie Chapman Catt	81
Domestic Science..............Susa Young Gates	82
Nottingham Relief Society..........Edith Cable	82
Thoughts on the New Century.............P E. C.	83
Mima..........................................Leila Marler	83
A Friendly Letter................Luella M. Rhodes	83
Autobiography of Sarah B. Layton................	86
In Memoriam..................................................	87
R. S. Report....................................................	87
Woman’s Congress in Paris.....................E. J.	88
Editorial—L. D. S. Building Dedicated.........	84
A Double Birthday Celebration......................	84
A Pleasant Birthday Party...............................	85
Young Ladies’ Bazar.......................................	85
Editorial Notes................................................	86
Poetry—Resignation...........................Sygnet	81
Glimpses Backward and forward, L. L. G. R		83


RESIGNATION.
She lay like a lily in her cold, white bed
	With her hands crossed close on her breast,
While over her eyelids and lips there spread,
	And brooded, the spirit of rest.
But my heart was torn with a mighty grief.
	And I cried who talks of God’s will?
To snatch from our home this half-ripened sheaf?
	Methought her lips whispered “God’s will.” 

With a startled tear, I knelt at her side,  
	And prayed an agonized prayer:
“My dear, if thou hear’st and knowest beside,
	Tell me, sweet, why liest thou there!
Have I failed in my duty, forgotten my part?
	Have I carelessly said, ‘All is well?’
Exposed thee too blindly to death’s cruel dart?’
	The pale lips but echoed, “All’s well!”

“O, if I’d done this, or had not done so,
	Perhaps thou would’st still be with me!
Yes, I have been harsh, failed my true love to show,
	’Tis from these Death setteth thee free.
But ah, if thou knowest my pain and regret,
	And the prayers I have prayed unto Heaven
Mayhap thou’lt forgive, and never forget!”
	But the lips only echoed “To Heaven!”

Then o’er my sad heart, there fell like a balm,
	The peace which He giveth His own,
I dried up my tears, my spirit grew calm,
	I knew that I was not alone.
The sparrow He sees, feeds the raven wild,
	And leadeth the weary to rest,
Then why should I doubt He called to my child
	For her sweet lips echoed, “To rest!”

I will trust in His grace, I will not bemoan,
	For that which hath gone before,
He knoweth my weakness, yet makes me His own,
	I will love Him and serve Him the more.
He helps me and He alone knoweth how, 
	For no one but He is the Judge!
I kissed her white lips to seal up my vow,
	And they murmured “Lo, He is the Judge!”

Be at peace, O my heart, thy trials are known,
	And thy struggles will some day cease,
For the sweetne s of death is victory’s crown.
	He giveth His children release,
Be at rest, O, my heart, you strive not alone,
	Nor alone feel the chastening rod,
Give up thy dead ! He but taketh His own!
	She goeth to rest with her God?
								SYGNET.


[Column 1]
HOME AND IDEALS.
	Whether built of logs or marble, be the
surroundings picturesque or desolate, a spot
marked by squalor or opulence, the four
walls of home close in and nurse the best
there is in man.
	The love for mother in the tender babe
grows upward to the stars to the “Fear of
God.”
	The love for little brothers and sisters
goes out from widely stretched arms to the
“Universal Brotherhood of man.” 
	The birds on the garden shrubs unfold

[Column 2]
their secrets to the growing child, from
birds, blossoms, fruit seed, over and again
he learns his first lesson of his relation to
God and nature.
	If art reigns in the home there will grow
out of it beautiful parks, streets, thorough-
fares and cities.
	If art reigns in the home it will be sur-
rounded and filled with the influence of
Honesty, Purpose, Work, Simplicity,
Sentiment, Peace, Unity and Harmony,
while banished must be Coarseness, Vulgar-
ity, Deceit, Slothfulness, Shallowness,
Gaudiness, Discord and Unrest.
	Life in the influence of art trains the soul
to respond to the God-like in man and
nature, to feel the beautiful and to cherish
and follow higher ideals. Soul greatness is
the ultimate end and aim of all effort.
	When this life is done I believe men will
be judged more by what they think and feel
and love and know than for the deeds done
in the flesh.
	A life consumed by following society’s
unprofitable and foolish fashions has a par-
allel in that of a woman who never takes a
moment for study and self-improvement but
makes herself a very slave to her home.
The home must be kept sweet and clean
but the brain is as prone to get cobwebby as
the best room.
	A little regular study in some line that is
interesting will be a source of rest and in-
spiration. In every soul there is a spark of
greatness, there is a feeling, a desire to
create something beautiful. Do not crush
that feeling. Read Christ’s lesson about
the Talents. Do you ever stop and consider
that God has given you mental power to be
used and improved for your own good? If
you have a gift in composing pursue it to
the end of your days. If your talent is
music, drawing, needlework, designing,
cabinet making, farming or any other line
of work, do not neglect it, but put into it the
best you are capable of giving.
	And right here let me say that there are
great opportunities for art in both house-
keeping and farming. Give the furnishing
of a room careful study, and, “be it ever so
humble,” it will be a work of art. Give
thought to the arrangement of your shrubs,
gardens, trees, house, sheds, lawns, and
your farm will be a living picture.
	So, I say, into that which you undertake
put the best workmanship your head and
hand can give.
	It must be the mass of individual effort
that will place Utah ahead of her sister
states, in art, in edcucation, in music, in in-
dustry. If the growing child is surrounded
with such influences that naturally feed his
sense of art it will help him to place the
purpose of his life where it should be—above
the Dollar mark, above all the trifling things
of the world. He will do things well, he
will labor to make a work of art rather than
to make money. It is the careless, dis-
honest, unprofessional, shoddy work, the
motto, “Anything that will sell” that
threatens the success of any community.
	Let Utah’s sons and daughters see the
danger which threatens and rise to their
duties.

[Column 3]
Let us not only have the best music in the
land but let others come to Utah for our
silks and laces, paintings and statuary.
	Let them come to learn our modes of
cooking, sewing, gardening, farming,
house building and all things that are
beautiful when well done.
	ALICE MERRILL HORNE.


BAZAR LETTER.
Mrs. J. Fewson Smith:
	We have been so overwhelmed with the
work of the Bazar that we are away behind
with our correspondence. I trust this will
explain to you my neglect of your letter. I
would be glad to have you read this letter
to others who are interested, in order that
one writing may do for all.
	Your goods were all properly received.
Mrs. Gilmer came from Boston to take
charge of the Utah exhibit. We had a five
pointed star to represent the suffrage states
and the goods from all four of them were
put in this booth. The Indian things
sold like hot cakes. You sent a splendid
exhibit, we thought. The doll was the ad-
miration of all. Mrs. McKinley sent a doll
beautifully dressed in white, and that
and the Utah doll were rivals; and there
was an amusing difference of opinion as to
which was the finer doll.
	It did not sell to please us, however. We
found that people did not buy expensive
dolls and that the cheaper ones went faster.
We had so many of these beautiful dolls
that we could find no ready market for
them. However, there was a return from
the dolls not measured in money. Nothing
advertised us more than the report of
the beautiful dolls from the Governors’
wives. Reporters found in that fact much
of interest to write up, and the first thing
the people wanted to see when they came to
the Bazar were the beautiful dolls. They
were greatly admired and I think were the
source of attraction which sold many other
goods. For this reason I can feel that even
though they sold below their actual value,
they were not a loss.
	The Utah doll was a costly one but we
were only able to sell it for $13.00 or $13.50.
We sold it at auction the last night. The
little girl who got it was made very happy
by her possession, but did not realize what a
bargain she had. However, as I have said
before, although this was far below its
cost, it did its good work for us in other
ways.
	The one thing which seems to me most
cruel about the Bazar is that so many things
have to be sold below their value. This
was a heart-rending thing to me all the
way through the Bazar, and when I saw
the chairmen of booths marking down their
goods. I have never had any experience in
bazars. I was always told that this was
the way they always did in bazars, and I
found that most purchasers were bargain-
hunters, and bargains they found.
	I think at this writing that our balance
will be $700.00. We have still some bills
to pay and some receipts to come in, so we


do not know how we stand. I think this is
it, however.
	I want to thank you good women in Utah
for all your good work and co-operation.
You are noble friends of the cause, and I
assure you we appreciate you every one.
We were very glad Mrs. Gilmer could come.
She had the misfortune to catch cold and
very nearly lose her voice, and consequent-
ly worked with great suffering throughout
the Bazar. She was loyal help, however,
and we appreciated her.
		Yours faithfully,
			CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT.
	December 29, 1900.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		DOMESTIC SCIENCE.
		SUSA YOUNG GATES.
	Some people are vaguely alarmed and
others are mildly sarcastic when the term
domestic science is used. Why, say the
first, should we invade the sacred precincts
of the home, and try to fashion and shape
into laws that which God has given
women and men divine instinct to perfect?
Those who choose to be sarcastic, say flip-
pantly, “I can sweep a floor, make bread
and keep house as well as any woman in
this town, and what’s the use of people
making a fad out of this domestic science?
My mother taught me how to wash by
making me do it, and that’s the way I am
teaching my daughters; I have no need for
classes in a school, nor clubs, nor books
even; any women with ‘get up’ in her can
keep house.”
	Just so women talked about sewing
when Elias Howe went into his little shop
to study out the principle of the shuttle.
But science did not wait for the woman who
was a hundred years behind the times; the
sewing machine was perfected by Howe,
and the poorest as well as the most con-
servative women of today uses the tool of
science to hasten her flying needle.
	The man or the woman in this Church
who is narrow and bigoted has not yet
grasped the true meaning of the Gospel.
Progression is the key to the door of
heaven. What made and makes Joseph
Smith, Brigham Young and Lorenzo Snow
the peers of the most advanced theorists of
the Church and of the world today? Their
power of receptivity. The wisdom and
prescience which gleans out the truth
from every so called fad and uses it to the
utmost advantage.
	No one grows old who remains pro-
gressive.
	Domestic science is merely the term
which is used to cover all the labors and
problems of home life. To discuss these
labors, to solve these problems, this is
what many wise and noble men and
women are doing all over the civilized
world.
	Every woman, rich or poor, is ready to
admit that housework is drudgery. This is
hardly true, either. It is work, hard work
and taxing work; work that requires for its
perfect service, a wide capacity and great
physical strength. But it can only be
drudgery to the ignorant or to the mean.
Work is the salvation, the solace, the hope
and even the redemption, in a way, of
mankind.
	Now, less than a hundred years ago, men
grasped the thought that almost all classes
of hand labor, in their own sphere of activ-
ity, could be better accomplished by the
use of suitable machines. Before this, inven-

[Column 2]
tions were sought mostly for transportation, or
for the acquisition of wealth; for this latter
purpose the science of alchemy—as chemistry
was then called—was devoted chiefly to the
search for transforming metals into gold, or
similar purposes.
	It is not very long since men discovered
that farm labor, from the planting of wheat
to the making of butter, could better be
done by steel and steam than by the tedious
hand work of the centuries.
	Men, naturally, made haste to devise ways
and means to throw down their own heavy
and rude implements of toil, and to pick up in
their stead the light handles and electrical
buttons of modern machinery.
	Women’s toil has also been lessened and
lightened. The spinning, weaving, candle-
making, knitting, sewing, canning, milk-
ing, churning and many other old-time
house duties, have been taken from the
hands of women by iron wheels and
leathern bands.
	But, alas, neither men nor women have
any more time to devote to the intellectual
or the spiritual culture of their three-fold
natures, nor, indeed, have they as much.
The poor man of today has wants and
needs which even the king on his throne
never so much as yearned for two hundred
years ago.
	Life has become far more complicated
with all these conditions and instead of
severe simplicity of diet, dress and amuse-
ment being the characteristic of the poor and
the ignorant, as it once was, it is now
rather the mark of the truly refined and in-
telligent. For now, in direct contrast to
life fifty years ago, the struggle is, not to
break away from the naturalness and health-
fullness of a simple home life, but to resist
the current of mad recklessness and extrava-
gant worldliness which sweeps with deafen-
ing force against the very doors of the
home itself.
	Those who, in the world, are studying
this question of domectic science, are more
deeply concerned with the increase of
facilities for more and better equippe
domestic labor than with the simplyfying
the home life.
	But the true Latter-day Saint recognizes
the fact that there is no place in the religion
of Christ for bond and free, nor for mistress
and maid. All serve, all are servants.
There are the young and inexperienced,
and the matured and wise; that is all!
	Yet, caught with the whirlwind of fashion
and frivolity which is sweeping over the
earth, we, too, have our domestic problems.
And not all of these problems are due to
worldliness, some are the natural conse-
quence of the economic conditions of the
day. However, our problems are different
in many ways and we must study them
from our own point of view.
	We are told that our principal mission on
this earth is to save souls. Not alone to be
saved, remember, but to save others.
Saviors upon Mount Zion! It is a term of
solemn import! No trifling, no carelessness
of purpose nor act should be found in the
mature Latter-day Saint.
	Souls to save! Either by love and ser-
vice to the living, or by service and love for
the dead! Is not that our mission?
	The Elders of our people have this same
mission upon them, and they, too, have
their problems to meet and solve. But the
women have theirs, and it is to them we
should turn our attention with zeal and de-
votion.

[Column 3]
	Is it sufficient that women shall rear and
train a family of children? Perhaps. But
there may be twenty-five years before she be-
gins, and twenty-five years after she is
through that are her own; and if she does
nothing before and nothing after towards
the salvation of other souls besides the
children of her own body, she will be a
small factor in the preservation and exalta-
tion of herself and her own.
	And what is it that prevents the women
of this people from entering fully into the
service of Christ? Is it the rearing of chil-
dren? Nay, only about one half of them,
young, mature aad old are mothers of
families. Ask any candid, intelligent
woman this question, and whether she be
the mother of a family or not, she will
frankly answer, “It is my housework that
keeps me tied ever at home.”
	Men have accepted work as a blessing;
women have multiplied work to themselves
when they were relieved of former burdens.
What then is the duty of our women?
	To study their own conditions, to prayer-
fully consider the possible solution of the
vexed problem of housework and to pre-
pare themselves to be true exponents of
Domestic Science, while they labor side by
side with husband and son as saviors on
Mount Zion.


NOTITNGHAM RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The members of the Nottingham Relief
Society held their annual party on Boxing
day, December 26, 1900. A hearty invita-
tion was extended to all. A committee of
young ladies was appointed to decorate the
room with Christmas decorations, the tables
being also tastefully arranged and decorated
with flowers and ferns.
	Tea commenced at 5 p. m., and about
sixty persons, including Elders, Saints and
some nine or ten strangers, who had
been induced to come, sat down and par-
took of a hearty meal.
	After tea a short program was rendered,
consisting of an opening address by Presi-
dent Stephen Walker, songs, duets, etc. A
stump speech was also successfully delivered
by Professor Muddlechump. The patriotic
spirit of the Elders found voice in their
national anthem, “The Star Spangled Ban-
ner,” all joining in the chorus with a ready
response. The rest of the evening was
devoted to games and various amuse-
ments were indulged in to make the evening
a success. Refreshments were also on hand
for all those who required them, the pro-
ceeds of which were to be given into the
relief fund for the benefit of the poor.
	The amusements were brought to
a close by singing “O, my Father.” Bene-
diction was pronounced by Conference
President Stephen Walker.
			EDITH CABLE, Sec.


MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT, president
of the National Suffrage Association, spoke
in behalf of equal suffrage at the debate
held by the League for Political Education
on January 11, in New York City. The
League invited the Anti-Suffrage Associa-
tion to send a speaker to present the nega-
tive, but the “Antis” had no one who was
willing to meet Mrs. Catt in argument.
Mrs. Lillian W. Betts, a member of the
League, supported the negative from the
floor. The vote stood in favor of suffrage
33 to 3.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GLIMPSES BACKWARD AND FORWARD

Written for Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Jane
S. Richards on their birthday, January 31, 1901.

Sometimes, in thought, we seem to look within
The Spirit-world, where life and works begin. 
Not yet a hundred years ago, there stood,
Two sister spirits, gentle, fair and good,
Zina and Jane together worked and walked,
And often of their wondrous future talked.

Once Zina said, “I’m called and now must go
To be embodied on that earth below!”
I think they wept, because they likely knew
That mortal years must pass—if only two,
Ere Jane should follow; but they said, “Ah, well!
’Tis Father’s plan, and we will not rebel.”

And so they parted; Zina came to earth,
A tiny, struggling infant at its birth,
And as a deep sleep had enwrapt her mind,
She had forgotten all she left behind.
But—sure enough! in two years, to a day,
Came Janie, following in the self-same way!

Forgetting all, and struggling now for breath,
Scarce nearer unto life than unto death;
Yet born to live, and help the marvelous plan
Of eternal unto fallen man.
And, since those spirits found to earth the way,
Is Seventy-eight and Eighty years today.

As in two different towns their births were cast,
They met not until their childhood years had passed.
But when the Gospel in each heart found place,
And drew the two together face to face.
There must have been a tender, mutual thrill
Of recognition, which connects them still.

And all the way, for sixty years or more,
They’ve worked together, as they did before
In that first life; they stand as there they stood,
Two faithful sisters, loving, true and good.
One may precede the other onward; then,
As when they parted first, they’ll weep again.

Look forward, Seventy-eight and Eighty years;
What rapturous scenes of glory there appears!
Zina and Jane their birthday celebrate,
What noble mansions, and the throngs how great!
Prophets and Kings and Queens!—account here
	stops;
I’ll write it in its time. The curtain drops!
			L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


THOUGHTS ON THE CLOSING CENTURY.

	What strides have been made in all
directions, in science, particularly, what
great discoveries have been made. What
mighty wars have desolated the land. But
God rules over all, and from the ashes of
battle arises a better state of feeling, a
nearer fellowship, a drawing together of
nations. In no department do we observe a
greater change than in the religious world.
Such an intolerant spirit as was manifest
between the different sects and denomina-
tions of forms of religion within my remem-
brance. The Master’s leaven of Love is
working as we come to know Him better, to
have His spirit pervade our hearts. We
see less faults and more to admire in those
people of other faiths, different from ours.
	And I believe the good work will go on,
slowly but surely, until Christ’s kingdom
shall be eatablished in every land.
	But, ah, the wickedness that still exists,
and greatest of all is caused by the liquor
traffic! What an awful curse it is, what
misery and degradation it causes! If my
faith were not strong in the final triumph
of good over evil, I should be in despair;
but the world moves and I hope
and trust towards the right. The growth
must be upward. God goes forward ever,
oven amidst our tears and fears, and He will
prevail.
	This century will bring about great
changes, it must be for the better. The bad
must die, the good lives on forever, ah, yes,
forever!
						P. E. C.


MIMA.
		LELLA MARLER.

	Was her earthly mission finished? God
knows best! He who is infinite, He who
is wise has again received His beautiful
flower, His bright jewel—and now we
shall see sweet Mima’s face and form no
more.
	Young and noble and happy and beauti-
ful, Oh, yes, divinely beautiful! The
loveliness of her soul was portrayed in her
countenance. Pure and good as the angels
in heaven.
	But disease is stern and pitiless, and in
all his hideousness he siezed upon our dear
one. Science and skill were of no avail;
fervent prayers were not heeded. Slowly
she faded, patient and faithful to the last.
The final spark of life died out, and there
she lay, in her marble beauty, a faint smile
still lingering on her face—dead.
	God had called her spirit to another
sphere, and with great effort we whispered,
“Thy will be done.”
	She was buried in the little churchyard.
Only a tiny mound dedicated to God and
laden with nature’s sweetest flowers, that
is all; and yet a home has lost its brightest
hope, its dearest comfort, its sweetest joy.
A village has lost its ministering angel.
The world has lost a queen, and in heaven
a priestess is welcomed.
	She came to earth like a bright sunbeam,
shedding rays of love and hope on all who
came within her radius. Her influence,
unlike the sunbeam’s, was so luminous
that its light will never cease, but will be- 
come brighter and warmer day by day; and
live on in the hearts of some, as stars of hope
leading them on to nobler, better deeds,
through time and through eternity.
	Her book of life is written. Not one
page is stained with a dark or fearful deed.
Every chapter contains some beautiful
thought, some high desire, some encourag-
ing whisper or some worthy deed.
	To know her was to love her. To be in her
presence was an incentive to seek a nobler,
better way of living. She carried hope
with her. Her sweet, musical voice com-
forted you always; her low, gentle words
cheered all who heard them; her bright
smile cast fears and worries aside, her
gentle touch banished pain.
	And now she is gone! A sad chord is
touched in the hearts of all who knew her.
There is a tremor of the lips of those who
speak her name. When she is mentioned
it is in a low, gentle voice, as if her life
were too sacred to be discussed. And un-
consciously one lingers lovingly upon that
sweet name, “Mima.”
	When we kneel in sacred prayer, we im-
plore the Father to heal the bleeding
hearts of her loved ones.
	When we think of her, a sweet calm
enters our souls.
	We lisp her name and the gentle zephyrs,
kissed by the perfumed roses, steal through
the moonlit window, catch the whisper and
it is vibrated through the house, borne
away to the gurgling brooks, carried
through grassy dells and leafy trees, and
thence to the mighty ocean, and then on
and on to the realms above; and as the
echoes are dying away in the distance, we
hear the faint murmur, “Mima, sweet
Mima.”
	Were we all more like Mima, how
blessed the world would be!


A FRIENDLY LETTER. 
	Gleneyre, Colorado, Dec. 20, 1900.
My Dear Mrs. Wells:
	I write so you will get this in time for the
last meeting of the Press Club of 1900. I
do not want the sun of the new century to
shine upon me knowing that I owe club
dues. I send them to you, not knowing
who the new officers are, and as the Press
Club without Mrs. E. B. Wells would be
like the play of Hamlet with Hamlet left
out, I know you are there.
	I visited in Denver for about six weeks
after leaving Salt Lake, then I came up to
visit a friend who lives eighty miles from
the railroad, we were cut off from all
sociability, only within ourselves. The
wild natural beauty and the spicy breath of
pine woods and mountains always suggest
to me “The Funeral of Moses,” where it
says:
	“The dark rocked pines, with tossing plumes,
		Over his bier shall wave,
	And God’s own hand in that lonely land, 
		To lay him in his grave.”
	Friendship induced me to come to this
romantic spot, and when physical endur-
ance is no longer able to stand the butterfly
existence of city life, this is a beau ideal
habitation for the “Rest for the Weary.”
	I would that I had the gift to describe the
beautiful sunsets, the elevatiou is 8,500
feet, and if an artist could transfer the
beautiful scenes to canvas, all of the gor-
geous tints which are intermingling in the
glowing colors of nature, his fame and for-
tune would be made.
	The house is picturesque, large and
roomy, built of logs. Situated aloft on
the very summit of a mountain range,
yet nestling in the shelter of pine-covered
heights, sweeping into circles around it.
	The ranch of 1,100 acres is watered by
the purest and coldest of running streams,
the atmosphere clear and bracing, the little
pine draines or gulches around them put me
in mind of “The Deserted Trail.”

“And half way up there stands all slim and white,
A grove of quaking asps,
And often there when morn the mountain clasps,
I’ve stood in mute delight
Betwixt each silvery stem you catch a glance
At ranges far and blue,
And one great peak that leaps so straight and true,
A mighty ice-tipped lance.
Within that grove in August late I’ve found, 
A thousand columbines
Flaunting their purple heads so fair and fine,
Carpeting all the ground.
Amid the city’s rush and smothered wail,
see that mountain shine,
The quaking aspens and the Columbine.
The old deserted trail.”

	This describes those little gulches so
much better than I could. I have a gallery
of brain pictures stowed away, but my pen
is not equal to the occasion.
	I want to get back to Utah by the first of
the year, but my home for most of 1901 will
be in Price, Utah. I shall endeavor to
keep in touch with the Press Club, as I en-
joy it so much. Remember me to all
friends.
		Sincerely yours,
			LUELLA M. RHODES.


It is said that no funeral in England ever
called out such a demonstration of respect
and regret as that of Queen Victoria, and
that the only one in modern times which
came near it was the funeral of the Duke of
Wellington.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
ace one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
c<o>unt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, at
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEB. 15, & MAR. 1, 1901.


L. D. S. BUILDING DEDICATED.
	The Latter-day Saints new Business
College was formally dedicated with appro-
priate ceremonies on Thursday, February
7, 1901, exercises commencing at 2 p. m.
	The assembly room was handsomely dec-
orated, the stand with flowers and bunting
in red, white and blue, and flags suitably
draped. Portraits of the First Presidency
in a group were hung above the stand, and
on the wall either side being photographs of
Dr. Maeser and the Board of Education.
	Many palms and pots of flowers in bloom
adorned the window seats.
	The exercises opened with a quartette,
“Alma Mater,” Lizzie Thomas Edwards,
Mabel Cooper, Thomas Ashworth and H.
S. Ensign. Prayer was offered, after that
a trio, Mabel Cooper, Thomas Ashworth
and H. S. Ensign, followed with an
address by President Lorenzo Snow and
a song, “My Valley Home,” Mrs. Edwards
and quartette.
	Presentation speech, Chairman Building
Committee, Bishop Geo. Romney. Accept-
ance, Hon. Angus M. Cannon, Chairman
Board of Trustees. Piano solo, Prof. J. J.
McClellan. Dedicatory prayer, President
Geo. Q. Cannon. Singing, “America,” by
the students. Future of the College glow-
ingly portrayed by Elder J. E. Taylor. Flag
Presentation by S. H. Derbyshire, student,
also one of the Utah Volunteers. Acceptance
of the Flag, Prof. J. H. Paul. Singing,
“The Star Spangled Banner.” Benediction
by Hon. Brigham Young.
	The ceremonies were all impressive and
the remarks were well chosen as “apples
of gold in pictures of silver.” The dedi-
catory prayer was a masterpiece of its kind,
if the term is admissible.
	The banquet below to which so many
hundreds sat down was tastefully arranged,
one wondered where so many sweet violets
had been found in February, and the sim-
plicity of style manifest is a reccommend to
the college girls, and in much better taste
than a more elaborate menu would have
been.
	Music and dancing continued until mid-
night with the young students and their
friends.
	The success of the Building Committee
has been beyond the most ardent expecta-
tions when the plan was first devised to
build immediately after the land had been
donated. May the College prosper as brisk-
ly and successfully and the students achieve
unprecedented success along all useful


lines of education, and may the spirit that
brooded over the dedication ever remain
within those walls, that the young people
may be inspired to pursue the noblest course
of life, cultivating the highest virtues, truth,
honesty and uprightness, integrity, patriot-
sm and chivalry, until it shall be said as
prophesied of old:
	“That our sons may be as plants grown
in their youth; that our daughters may be
as corner-stones, polished after the simili-
tude of a palace.”


[Column 1]
A DOUBLE BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.
	The 31st of January, 1900, was made
memorable by the General Board of the
Relief Society whose members celebrated
appropriately the birthday of the President
and Vice-President of the organization.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, the President,
was born on January 31st, 1821, and was
consequently 80 years of age. Mrs. Jane
S. Richards, First Vice-President, was born
on January 31st, 1823, two years later.
	Mr. and Mrs. F. S. Richards opened their
handsome and commodious residence on A
Street, in this city, for the birthday party
which was set for 2 p. m., Thursday the
31st. The parlors and library were beauti-
fully decorated with vines and white carna-
tions, the design being principally green
and white, though pink and American
beauty roses were disposed tastefully in
suitable places and added to the brilliancy
of the effect. The two honored guests of
the occasion were seated side by side in the
front parlor, where they received the con-
gratulations of their distinguished friends.
	President Lorenzo Snow and wife were
among the first to arrive. President George
Q. Cannon and wife, President Joseph F.
Smith and wife, Apostle Brigham Young
and wife, Apostle John Henry Smith and
wife, Bishop John R. Winder and wife and
Mrs. W. B. Preston, President Angus M.
Cannon and wife, President Joseph E. Tay-
lor and wife, President C. W. Penrose and wife,
Bishop O. F. Whitney, Mrs. Robert Pat-
rick, Counselor Wm. Barton and wife; also
Mrs. Julia C. Howe, Mrs. Mary Alice
Lambert, Mrs. William Jennings, Mrs.
Elizabeth Webb and Dr. E. S. Barney; also
Mrs. N. Twiss Young, Margaret P. and
Amelia F. Young and Mrs. Maria Y. Dou-
gall, Mr. Chariton Jacobs and wife, and his
son, Zebulon and wife. The Ogden party
were Hon. C. C. Richards and Mrs. Josephine
R. West, Mrs. D. H. Perry, Mrs. William
Driver and Professor Moench and wife, Mr.
and Mrs. Walker West, Mr. and Mrs. John
Herrick, Elder Samuel W. Richards and
wife, Mrs. Maria W. Wilcox, Mrs. H. P.
Richards, Mrs. Heber John Richards, Elder
Levi W. Richards and wife, Mr. and Mrs.
W. B. Dougall, Mr. Hugh Dougall, Mrs.
Mary C. Cannon, Misses Grace and Vera
Cannon and Miss Clarice Dougall.
	Two distinguished guests were Elder
Nathan Tanner, father of Mrs. F. S. Rich-
ards, and his sister, Mrs. Maria Lyman,
mother of Apostle F. M. Lyman. Of the
General Board, besides the two senior presi-
dents mentioned, there were Presidents
Bathsheba W. Smith and Sarah Jane Can-
non, E. B. Wells, Romania B. Pratt, Susan
Grant, Julina L. Smith, Emily S. Richards,
Rebecca Standring, Julia P. M. Farnsworth,
Elizabeth J. Stevenson and Annie T. Hyde.
	There were a number of others invited who
for various reasons could not be present, but
the party was an exceedingly pleasant one

[Column 2]
and all seemed to enjoy meeting the two
veteran women, whose good works of love 
and charity and benevolence are known 
throughout Israel.
	At one long table in the library were 
seated Sisters Zina Young and Jane S.
Richards and President and Mrs. Snow, 
President and Mrs. Cannon, President and 
Mrs. Smith, Brigham and Mrs. Young, 
John Henry and Mrs. Smith, Sisters B. W. 
Smith and Amelia F. Young, Mrs. Maria
Lyman and Mr. Nathan Tanner, Sen.
	Small tables in the parlors accommodated
the other guests. President Snow pro-
nounced the blessing. The dinner was de-
licious and admirably served. During the
dinner telegrams of congratulation were
read from absent members of the family and 
from friends. Also some letters containing
both congratulations and regrets for absence.
	After the guests had partaken of the
bounteous repast tables were cleared and
President Snow was invited to make a few
remarks. He responded briefly, speaking
of the long acquaintance he had enjoyed
with the sisters whose birthday was
being celebrated and congratulating them
upon the success they had made of their
life work, and wishing them happiness and
long life here and an eternity of glory
hereafter. Alluded to the mothers in
heaven and referred to the beautiful hymn
of his sister, Eliza, with which he believed
we were all familiar.
	President George Q. Cannon spoke next.
He eulogized the lives of these good 
sisters, and alluded to the trials through
which they had passed without wavering in 
their faith, and dwelt much on the integrity
of the Saints, who had endured suffering for
principle and to establish righteousness.
	President Joseph F. Smith followed in a
similar strain, noting the great strength of
character, fortitude and endurance of the 
women who had helped to lay the founda-
tion of righteous principles in the early 
days, and of the great blessings in store for
the faithful mothers in Israel. He also 
congratulated them on having lived so 
many years in such wonderful times, having
known the Prophet Joseph and others who 
had succeeded him, and said many more 
good and excellent things.
	Sister Zina responded in a few words of
grateful appreciation and spoke of her long
experience in the Church and her great love
for the Latter-day Saints and the work of 
the last days.
	Elder Hugh Dougall then sang “The
Holy City,” and thrilled every heart pres- 
ent with the melody of his superb voice.
	Elder John Henry Smith made a brief 
address representing the quorum of the
Apostles.
	Bishop John R. Winder spoke briefly and
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith expressed her
love for the work in a few well chosen
words, alluding to the days of Joseph and
some of her own personal experiences, and
her deep appreciation of the blessings en-
joyed by the Saints.
	Elder Nathan Tanner, who was one of
the oldest member in the Church, gave a 
few of his ideas of the past and present of 
the Latter-day work.
	Elder Samuel W. Richards was one of 
the speakers and gave some reminiscences 
of his acquaintance with the Prophet Joseph. 
	Elder Dougall, by request, rendered 
another sacred song entitled, “The Palms,”
his voice and expression doing ample justice 
to the theme and delighting the audience. 
Poems were read by Sisters Susa Young


Gates, L. L. Greene Richards and Ruth
inda H. Moench. Mrs. Richards poem
appears in this number, the others will be
given in a later number.
	President Jane S. Richards in a few
appropriate remarks expressed her feelings
at the honor shown and spoke of her great
love for the Relief Society work in which
she delighted and urged the younger sisters
to become acquainted with the labors of the
sisters who were now actively engaged
in the organization.
	During the evening souvenir cards with a
very small picture of Mrs. Young and Mrs.
Richards were given each guest. The cards
were tied with white ribbon and contained a
motto suited to the work in which they have
spent so many years. Sister Zina’s motto is
"Charity never faileth,” Sister Richard’s,
“He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the
Lord.”
	At the close of the impromptu exercises,
for no program had been prepared before-
hand by the committee, the audience stand-
ing sang “Praise God from whom all bless-
ings flow,” and Patriarch John Smith pro-
nounced the benediction.
	The spirit of the gathering was heavenly
and the party was certainly one to be re-
membered by all who were present. The
committee of the General Board of the Re-
lief Society feel grateful to all, who by their
presence and their generous words of appre-
ciation and blessing upon these noble and
devoted mothers in Israel, added to the suc-
cess of the entertainment, and especially ex-
press their thanks for the hospitality of
Brother and Sister F. S. Richards who so
generously gave their home and heartily
welcomed the invited guests.
	The General Board only regretted that so
many were absent that had been invited,
and that it was not possible to entertain all
the dearly beloved friends, associates and
fellow-laborers of Sisters Young and Rich-
ards, who have given so many years of
faithful service for the advancement of
women in all that pertains to a higher life
here and an exaltation hereafter.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A HAPPY BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	Mrs. Elizabeth J. Stevenson invited a few
friends to her new residence on Friday,
February 8, to celebrate her birthday,
though the party was really given in honor
of Sister Zina and the General Board of the
Relief Society of which she is a member.
Congratulations and hearty good wishes
were showered upon Sister Stevenson and
her pretty home was radiant with glowing
coal fires in the bright new grates[-] and
though the day was not so pleasant without,
rather blustering, yet within was a beautiful
spirit of peace and love and good will.
	A sumptuous dinner had been prepared
and the table was handsomely decorated
with carnations and roses. Covers were
laid for fourteen and a happy party it was
indeed who sat down to partake of the good
things. Sisters Zina D. H. Young, Jane S.
Richards, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emmeline
B. Wells, Julia C. Howe, Emma S. Wood-
ruff, Maria W. Wilcox, Romania B. Pratt,
Maria Y. Dougall, Julina L. Smith, Emily
S. Richards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Annie
T. Hyde and the hostess herself.
	Sister Zina asked the blessing upon the
feast. Conversation was general and en-
livening and the time passed so swiftly that
the ladies could scarcely believe they had
lingered so long over the dinner table chat-
ting and complimenting the hostess, until it


was nearly time to take leave of their genial
friend and sister.
	The EXPONENT adds its best wishes.
A long life, happiness and prosperity for
Sister Stevenson and many more happy
birthdays with old friends and new ones to
cheer and gladden her heart.


[Column 1]
YOUNG LADIES' BAZAR.
	The young ladies of the Fourth Ward,
Provo, having in mind the need of a Social
Hall, opened a Bazar, hoping to raise
means to help build a suitable place for
musicales and ward entertainments, and
they have made many articles useful and
ornamental, the workmanship of their own
hands, that are very creditable and make a
good showing and sell well. They also
have home made candy and good lemonade
for sale. The Bazar is in S. S. Jones’ store,
a commodious place, and the large room is
lined on both sides all the way down the
building with booths, prettily draped and
curtained in colors, and strikingly pretty
girls in quaint costumes have charge of
some of the booths, while others, where
more substantial articles are sold, are pre-
sided over by young matrons, who seemed
to be quite as attractive to customers, in
the way of pleasing conversation, as the
younger sisterhood.
	The undertaking is a very commendable
one. Each evening they have a change of
program up stairs in the hall to entertain
the public, at ten cents a piece. On the
Tuesday evening to which the Governor
and others from Salt Lake had been especi-
ally invited, a fine musical program was in
the hands of Prof. Anthon H. Lund, Jr.,
and consisted of choice selections from
great composers, as well as a few simple
ballads which always add to the enjoy-
ment of the audience, filling the gap be-
tween the exalted tones of the higher and
more classical music, and the coming down,
so to speak, of the audience, who cannot
quite, keep up the enthusiasm consequent
Upon the intenseness of the soul-inspiring
music of the great masters.
	Prof. Lund and his coterie of singers and
musicians did themselves proud on the oc-
casion, and indeed when it came to the
speaking, one could not find fitting words
to express the delight such music had in-
spired in the hearts of the assembly.
Governor Wells was in a happy mood and
never fails to make a good impression, and
his aunt, who accompanied him, made a few
brief remarks, touching upon the future
destiny of the young people of Utah.
	The hall was crowded to overflowing and
it is ardently hoped a good sum of
money was realized, for the program was
worth it.
	Then came the banquet to which Gover-
nor Wells and other dignitaries sat down
and feasted. Mrs Susa Young Gates was
toastmistress, and her gift in this line is
well known. She shines brilliantly in this
sort of role.
	The banquet was a sumptuous affair and
the table decorations, roses and ferns, were
both beautiful and fragrant. Mayor Taylor
pronounced the blessing. Young girls in
pretty costumes, with smiling faces, waited
upon the numerous guests. It was a festive
gathering. Many of the toasts were re-
sponed to in the wittiest manner, and a little
delightful sparring between the toastmis-
tress and one of the ladies, gave zest to the
occasion.
	The Governor was, as usual, brilliant

[Column 2]
and original in his response to the toas
“Utah and Her People.” Miss Reynolds
gave a literary dissertation, and Prof. Brim-
hall soared high, but that is to be expected
of professors. There were also others, too,
who acquitted themselves well, and the feast
was a great social success.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The conference of the Relief Society of
the Salt Lake Stake of Zion will be held in
the 14th Ward Hall in this city, Saturday,
March 2, 1901. It is desired by the officers
that there be a good attendance from all
parts of the Stake.
	The sisters in all of the Relief Society
branches throughout the Stakes of Zion and
its missions are reminded that the 17th of
March is near at hand, and that the annual
meeting on the anniversary of the organiza-
tion, March 17th, 1842, is to be observed
as usual, and the ten cent fund of member-
ship collected. But as the 17th of March
this year is on the Sabbath day, it will
probably be kept either on Saturday or Mon-
day, as may be most convenient for each
respective society, according to circum-
stances.
	The first Parliament of the reign of King
Edward VII, was opened Valentine Day,
February 14, 1901, by the king in person.
He was accompanied by Queen Alexandra,
the Duke of Connaught and other members of
the royal family. The gorgeous State
coach was used by the king and queen in
driving from Buckingham palace to West-
minister where the ceremonies took place.
The chariot was drawn by eight famous
cream-colored horses with postilions in red
and gold liveries, and footmen leading the
horses. The chariot was preceded and fol-
lowed by life-guards in full uniform with
silver breastplates and red-plumed helmets,
a small escort of gentlemen-at-arms in his-
toric costumes immediately surrounded the
royal coach. The crowd was immense and
the roars and shouts of the multitude is said
to have been deafening. Thus the king,
who has always been considered a liberal,
makes his first public appearance after taking,
the formal oath of His Majesty’s office. The
king wore a field marshal chapeau when he
read his speech, which was not a lengthy
document, but dealt with special subjects,
War with South Africa, Capture of Pekin,
Australian Commonwealth, Rebellion in
Ashanti, Drouth in India, Estimates to be
Submitted, the Military Force and the Irish
Land Question. The whole world will
look anxiously for the future course of this
new king and emperor. Indeed it is to be
expected that having such an admirable
mother he will be moderate in his career
and wise in statesmanship.
	The Legislature visited Provo in a body
on Wednesday and looked over the Insane
Asylum, as is their duty, it being a State
Institute. Dr. and Mrs. Hardy, who are in
charge, had made elaborate preparations
and about three hundred guests were seated
at the four long tables in the chapel, which
was handsomely decorated with stars and
stripes and festooned with bunting, and potted
palms on the platform, where the band
played delightful music during the dinner.
Dr. Hardy spoke briefly for the needs of the
institution and the Governor followed in his
original and happy style. President of the
Senate, Evans, made a telling speech.
Mr. Glassman, Chairman of the House of


Representatives, also spoke of the subject in
question, the need of more room for these
unfortunate men and women. A few other
speakers were called and time was up and
the party, who had been invited to visit the
B. Y. Academy, repaired thither. At the
Academy the Lecture hall was filled
with young men and women students, a
pleasing sight indeed, and promises much
for the future of the State. Here again the
Governor, President of the Senate, and
Hon. John T. Axton, made brief remarks
and “America” was sung with much spirit
by the students and visitors.
	The sudden demise of Dr. Karl G
Maeser has taken the community by sur-
prise. In his death the State of Utah has
lost one of its strongest educational pillars.
Prof. Maeser was untiring in his efforts to
advance a perfect system of education among
the masses of the people. His whole life
was given to noble service for the good of
his fellow men. He filled important posi-
tions in the schools of his own country be-
fore moving to America. In Dr. Maeser’s
conversion to Mormonism and his coming to
Utah some very remarkable incidents oc-
cur, which are powerful testimonies to the
truth of the Gospel. Prof. Maeser before
going to Utah to found the Brigham Young
Academy, was employed in the University
of Utah, and many young men and women
now filling places of importance in this State
and elsewhere studied under his tutelage in
that institution in the old Council House.
Too much cannot be said in favor of this
devoted servant of the Lord. It is an irre-
parable loss for the time being to the people;
the work will go forward notwithstanding.
Sometimes when such earnest, humble,
faithful and unassuming men and women
pass away, the question arises, “Have we
sufficiently appreciated their labors?” If we
have not, it is a good time to begin now
and help build up and strengthen those who
labor zealously and unremittingly for Zion.
Dear Brother Maeser, how gentle, yet firm!
What a beautiful life, so full of good deeds,
charity, mercy, benevolence, integrity and
all the virtues that adorn and glorify man-
kind. His death was beautiful, and it may
certainly be said of him that [-]e fell asleep
and never tasted death, as many of the
Saints have been promised if they continue
faithful.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
AUTOBINGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON.
			(Continued.)
	That summer I worked very hard to get
my things ready. Brother Layton told
my parents that he would bear all my ex-
penses in going to the land of Zion, and
they consented for me to go. My only
sister was there alone and my father thought
it would be very nice for me to come and
live with her, she had no family of her own.
	Brother Layton and Sarah Martin were
married on the third day of May, 1850, at
Sandy Church, by Rev. Cook.
	The summer soon passed. Sister Layton
and I made a number of straw bonnets to
bring with us to this country. Shortly
before we were ready to start some one told
my father the Mormons had more than one
wife, and for him not to let me go with Mr.
Layton to Utah, or he would marry me.
My father did not know what to do, for he
had never heard of such a thing. He
worried some about it and finally told me
that if what he had heard were true, and
that if he thought I would marry that man,

[Columm 2]
he would rather bury me there and then
than to see such a thing happen. My
mother sanctioned all that he said, but I
told them that I thought I was old enough
to take care of myself. It hurt me to think
they would feel so hard about those things
that they did not understand, and I told her
that I had never in my life disobeyed her
but once, and that was when I came into
this Church, and that when she found out a
little about the Gospel she would be glad
that I had, and asked her why she should
think now that I would do anything that
was so wrong. She had promised Brother
Layton that I should go with him, and he
had promised to take care of me, and why
should she believe that Satan would make
up without considering it first, and seeing
if it were all right. They soon became
reconciled and felt better.
	September 26th was the day decided on to
start from home for Liverpool. My relatives
and friends were there in full to persuade
me to stay, and not go to Utah, where they
said I had neither friends nor money. I told
them that the Gospel taught me that unless
I was willing to forsake all for the Gospel’s
sake, I was unworthy to be called one of
the chosen. I shall never forget my feel-
ings on that occasion, for though my heart
felt as though it would break, I felt that my
way had been opened in answer to my
prayer. I felt that God had been kind to
me when father, mother and friends had all
turned a cold shoulder on me, and why
should I now distrust him? I had set my
mind and could not be turned from what I
felt was my duty, and I had so long prayed
for a chance to gather with the Saints to
Zion. I had also learned that sacrifice
would bring forth blessings, and I would
not let them see that it worried me in the
least.
	That day I went to Brother Layton’s
place that we might start together from
Bedford station. The next morning on
arriving there I found my mother and a
cousin there, they having walked twelve
miles to see me again. That was a hard
parting for me.
	As the train passed through the tunnel
going into Liverpool, the sight that met my
eyes was wonderful to me, as I had never
seen a ship nor the sea; but there I saw the
ships for miles along the harbor, and
the broad ocean spreading out before
me; what a wonder!
	We spent some time going about in
Liverpool and through the ships. We also
went through a “man of war” that was
there.
	The morning of the 30th came and we
boarded the ship James Pennel. The first
night out they began to be seasick, but I
was not bothered until the second morning.
As I arose I walked out of the cabin and
looked over the side of the ship, when all at
once I turned so dizzy that I could not
stand and began to vomit. That was a
good introduction to the disease. Nearly
all on board had a spell. After I had been
on the sea about two weeks I was taken
down with a severe cold, and was so bad
that I could hardly move. The captain told
Brother Layton to take me out and put me
in a chair on deck. This he did without
telling me what it was for. But I soon
found out, for I had not been there long
before a great wave came in sight, and I
sitting there helpless and alone. I was
fastened to the chair and the wave rolled
over me and drenched me through. It made
me angry, for I could not so much as change

[Column 3]
	At the end of six weeks we were within
one day’s sail of the Gulf of Mexico, and
we retired about midnight, the stars shin-
ing as brightly as possible. But we were
awakened soon after by the heavy roaring
of the sea, and the sound of the sailors.
Such thunder and lightning I had never
heard or seen. In a short time the main
mast was torn off and we drifted
helplessly for eleven days, not knowing
what our fate would be. But we were res-
cued and landed safely at St. Louis, Decem-
ber 4, thankful to our Heavenly Father for
our deliverance from what seemed would be
a watery grave.
	It was a cold, rainy day when we landed;
we knew no one, and no one seemed to
know us. We were as pilgrims in the
promised land, without home or shelter.
But Brother Layton went out in town and
rented a large store room on Fourth and
Poplar Streets. We went in and were
sheltered from the rain, but were very
cold. In a short time some one came up
with a new cook stove and set it up in the
room, but we had never seen such a thing
before and did not know what to do with
it, so we left it just as they put it. After
waiting a few hours, sitting on the floor of
that large, dirty room, Brother Layton re-
turned. He had been busy getting our
luggage off the boat. We did not know
how to rough it, as we had always had plenty
at home, and every accomodation possible
on the voyage, but when we came to be
placed in such conditions we were lost.
	O, how awkward we were at trying to
cook! But we made the best of it. Brother
Layton hired some one to do our washing,
but we did not stay in that place long, we
moved to Twelfth and Franklin Ave. In
the spring of 1851 Orson Hyde came down
from Kanesville and counseled Brother Lay-
ton to rent a farm if possible near St. Louis,
and put the men to work that were owing
him, and let them work it out. This, of
course, delayed our journey to the moun-
tains.
	One very hot day in July, as I was about
to eat my dinner, I began shaking violently,
and did not know what was the matter.
Soon a fever developed, and I then realized
that I had chills and fever. Every day I
would have a spell until I became very weak.
Many a night I never closed my eyes. One
time I felt a little better and was left alone
to do some work while Sister Layton was
away to see her father, who was sick. I
got a pan and went to get some flour from
the barrel, and that was the last that I
knew that day. When Brother and Sister
Layton returned they found me in an un-
conscious condition, and everything just as
they had left it in the morning. I had torn
my clothing into strings and pulled my
hair, but knew nothing of it. I had the
best of care that could be had, but could
get no relief as long as I lived in St. Louis.
	In the spring of 1852 we started on our
journey for the West. We went up the
Missouri river to Kansas City. While on
the boat I was taken down with congestive
chills that nearly cost me my life. I was not
able to walk around when we landed at
Kansas City, but soon improved so that in
a few days we moved out into the woods
where we made our camp. There were
four in our camp. Brother Layton and his
father and Sister Layton and I, and we
were miles away from where any other
white folks lived. Indians were passing
constantly, but we were never molested by
them. Brother Layton was called to


go to Lexington to buy horses for the Emi
gration Fund Company.
	Before we were ready to start on our
journey across the plains, the cholera broke
out in the camp and several died, but it did
not attack any of our camp. The chills
and fever was a constant attendant on me
nearly all the way. I did not walk at all
crossing the plains on account of sickness.
When we were traveling along the Platte
river I was baptized for my health, but it
did not appear to have much effect, so my
travels were anything but pleasant. I had
taken enough quinine for a dozen people, I
thought, but it was of no avail. The
morning we reached the Bear river bottom
I had my last shake, and it was a very
severe one. It was a cold, frosty morning
and took a long time to get up a large hill
that we had to go over. They took the
carriage up first, and then we had to wait
several hours for the rest of the camp. It
seemed that the chills had no more power
over me, but I had something else that was
almost as bad. A pain began in the roof of
my mouth, then it began gathering until I
could not open my mouth or swallow. Just
after we crossed the top of the mountains
Brother Franklin D. Richards and several
others came to meet us. He came to the
Wagon that I was riding in and administered
to me and promised me that my tongue
should be loosened that I could talk to friends
when I arrived in Salt Lake the next day.
My sister and her husband had come a long
way to meet us, but on account of my
mouth I had not been able to talk to her.
	Next morning we left camp early and as we
caught sight of the valley we saw some of
the elderberries and Sister Layton jumped
off the wagon to get some of them for me. I
tried to crowd some of them into my mouth,
when all at once the gathering broke; and
what a relief! My tongue was loosed just
as I was told it should be, and I did talk to
my friends.
	The first house that I went into in Salt
Lake was Brother Elias Smith’s. It was a
log house with but one room in it, but we
Were made welcome, and it was a rest after
our long journey across the plains.
(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
SISTER LAURA MARIA LEVANDER.
	Sister Laura Maria Levander was born Septem-
ber 8, 1858, in Norway, Christiana, and was bap-
tized in 1876. She came to Utah July 14, 1877,
and was married to John Levander, November 10,
1881. She died at Santaquin, November 20, 1890,

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Eternal Father, in His infinite
Wisdom, has seen fit to call from this stage of
action our beloved sister, Laura Levander, who
was a very faithful and energetic worker in the
Church, was counselor in the Primary for a num-
ber of years, a constant Sunday School teacher and
a faithful teacher in the Relief Society,
	Resolved, That we realize that God calls from
our midst our esteemed associate and friend, that He
doeth all things for the best, and we must be re-
signed to His holy will.
	That we her colaborers extend to her husband
and the family our heartfelt sympathy in their sad
loss.

	Death also claimed one of our aged sisters,
Sister Sarah Elizabeth Jackson, who passed quiet-
away November 18, 1899, aged eighty-four
years- She was born in Sweden, March 16, 1816,
was baptized December 21, 1871, and emigrated to
Utah September 28, 1862. She died as she had
lived, a true and faithful Latter-day Saint.
	’Tis hard to be parted from those with whom we
forever could dwell, but we know they have entered

[Column 2]
that beautiful city, there with the angels to dwell
				NETTIE FRETJEN,
				ALICE ELLSWORTH,
							Committee.
RHODA BARNES SNELL.
	Rhoda Barnes Snell, the subject of this brief
sketch, was born at Sackville, New Burnswick,
November 21, 1815. Her father’s name was John
Barnes and her mother’s maiden name was
Hannah Dixon. She was the eldest of a large
family of sons and daughters. Her paternal
ancestors came from England in the year 1665,
and settled in Connecticut, and those on her
mother’s side came from the same country and set-
tled near where she was born.
	In 1832 she was married to Cyrus Snell, a native
of New Hampshire, and became the mother of six
sons and one daughter, two of whom she buried in
infancy.
	In the year 1836 John Hewit and Lyman Johnson
brought the Gospel to that land, making their
headquarters for a time with the Snell family, at
whose mill (Mr. Snell being a wool carder and
cloth dresser) they preached, and baptized quite a
number of souls, among whom were the subject of
this sketch and her husband and parents.
	In her old home she continued to live in the midst
of relatives and former friends, by whom she be-
came the object of much ridicule and pity. Many
of the Saints, her father’s family included, having
moved to Kirtland, she was sorely tried at times,
but never wavered in her faith in the Gospel.
	At length, in the year 1853, the Lord opened the
way, by raising up an apostate to purchase their
property, and they started for Deseret in April,
staying in Wisconsin a year with some of her
father’s family, who, in the meantime, had aposta-
tized and settled there. Here they purchased their
outfit, three ox and one horse team, for crossing
the plains, and in the following April started,
out for Salt Lake, a distance of over fifteen hundred
miles.
	Besides doing the washing and cooking on the
trip, she drove the horse team a good share of the
way
	This family traveling nearly alone across the
plains landed at their destination on the 27th of
August 1854, and in the following spring moved to
Spanish Fork, where she resided until the time of
her death, October 26, 1900.
	She passed through all the trials incident to set-
tling a hew country in a desert, and when the
Relief Society was first organized at Spanish Fork
in the year 1857, she was chosen as its president,
which office she continued to fill for fourteen
years, and labored in the silk industry for eighteen
years.
	She was very zealous in laboring in the Temples
for her dead relatives and friends, many of whom
had been her former revilers. She was a woman
of great courage, having faced the drawn arrow of
a savage when alone, without flinching, while she
totally unarmed, continued to chide him for his
rascality and cowardice until he sneaked away like
a cowardly cur.
	For over sixty-eight years she lived in the full
light of the Gospel, and always bore a strong testi-
monp of its truth and of the divinity of the mission
of Joseph Smith.
	After a very active life of nearly eighty-five
years she has passed to her reward, leaving behind
her a numerous posterity of three generations to
mourn her departure, and it may well be said of
her:

	You’ve been a friend to man,
		Prophets and beggars can
	This truth declare,
		For often at your board,
	Your morsel they have shared,
		Their blessing your reward
	And welcome were.

	And now, in Spirit land, 
		Your friends around you stand,
	A Savior meet,
		They’ll take you by the hand,
	While tears of joy descend,
		Their ridicule be turned
	To praises sweet.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Father in heaven has called from
our midst Sister Rhoda Snell, who was always
true and faithful in the performance of her duties
in the Relief Society, and won the love and respect
of all who associated with her, we feel to express
our love for her.
	Resolved, That as a sister, associate and friend
we feel that words are inadequate to express the
high estimation in which we hold her, and while
we feel the deepest sorrow at the loss we sustain in

[Column 3]
being deprived of her society, we bow submissively
to the will of Him who doeth all things well, and
say, “Thy will, O Lord, not mine, be done.”
	That we cherish her memory and follow in the
example she set us, that of being a faithful Latter-
day Saint.
	That we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the
bereaved family and relatives.
	That one copy of these resolutions be presented
to them, a copy be entered on the record of our
society and a copy be sent to the WOMAN’S EXPON-
ENT for publication.
	In behalf of the First Ward Relief Society of
Spanish Fork.
			RHODA E. ROBERTSON, Sec.


R. S. REPORT.
WAYNE STAKE.
	The Wayne Stake Relief Society confer-
ence convened at Torrey meeting house,
December 6, 1900, Stake President W. E.
Robison, Counselor H. M. Hansen, Patri-
arch E. H. Blackburn, Bishop George H.
Crosby, George S. Coleman and several
brethren present.
	Singing, “The morning breaks, the
shadows flee.” Prayer offered by Patriarch
Blackburn. Singing, “The time is nigh,
the happy time.” Minutes of last conference
read and accepted. President Jane Cole-
man presided,
	President Coleman felt grateful for the
presence of the brethren with us. Reported
the local Relief Society as being in good
condition, they having visited and found all
feeling, well in their labors of love. Said
the Relief Society sisters should lead out
and assist in everything in a ward that is of
an elevating nature, look after the poor a n
sick, keep in view what Relief Society work
is organized to accomplish, then let other
worthy ambitions follow. The Prophet
Joseph Smith turned the key of knowledge
for women in the organization, and we have
been blessed of the Lord to do and accom-
plish much good. Prayed the blessings of
the Lord upon our conference.
	President Margaret A. Adams reported
Torrey Relief Society in good condition,
was pleased to have conference held at
Torrey.
	President W. E. Robison spoke on the
importance of the Latter-day work, said we
should spend our energies in assisting in the
work of God, and not shift responsibility on
some one else, but realize the part that rests
upon us in the Church. The work of the
Lord is progressive, and it takes effort to
keep pace with the same. Prayed the
blessing of the Lord upon our labor.
	Grace Allen president of the Grover
Relief Society, reported that society as
doing well, said it was good to attend con-
ference and enjoy the spirit of God, it re-
vived our spirits and renewed our love for
the Gospel. Sister Sarah A. Robison was
pleased to meet with us under such favorable
circumstances. A great labor devolved up-
on the Relief Society. “I feel thankful the
Lord has blessed me with a family. We
should not let our children hear a murmur-
ing word from us. We should pray often
that our children may be raised in the truth
of the Gospel, for this is a noble work.”
	President H. M. Hansen said if we carry
out the instructions given to us we will be
benefited thereby. We live in a time of
improvement and should appreciate the
time we live in and be thankful for the
privileges we enjoy.
	Sister Sarah G. Meeks, of Thurber Relief
Society, reported that branch in good order.
Bore testimony to the truth of the Latter-
day work.


Singing, “Brightly beams the sacred
dawning.” Benediction by Elder R. N.
Adams.
	Afternoon session. Singing, “Prayer is
the soul’s sincere desire.” Prayer by Bishop
George G. Crosby. Singing, “Earth with
her ten thousand flowers.”
	The officers of the General board were
presented and sustained, also Stake officers.
	President Jane S. Coleman spoke upon
our efforts in sericulture, we had been
blessed and prospered thus far, but while
the trees are making growth we are to make
preparations to build a house for the
work. Wished those who felt to assist to
do so, and their interest in this direction
would be appreciated. Said we should im-
prove the talents God has given us, speak
kindly of each other and practice our re-
ligion in our lives.
	Patriarch Blackburn said he was grateful
for the opportunity of meeting with the sis-
ters and to bid them God speed. We should
appreciate the day and time in which we
live, the sisters are called of God to fill
these positions. The Lord spoke to His
servant, the prophet. The work we are
engaged in is endless. You should do
your duties as mothers, felt to bless the
sisters. You should cultivate faith in
your children, should remember the chil-
dren are constantly watching the parent.
The mothers work is never done, but we
must take time to look after our
children and cultivate love and union at
home.
	President Lydia C. Adams reported
Teasdale Relief Society doing well.
	Sister Robison said our religion makes us
one, instructions given have all been
good, let us treasure them up in honest
hearts and always have kind words for
every one.
	Bishop George H. Crosby said he had
much experience in Relief Society work,
appreciated the labors of the sisters. Spoke
encouraging words. Sister Eliza Brinkerhoff
spoke on woman’s work.
	President W. E. Robison said the in-
structions given had been timely, we should
repent and improve, we should magnify our
callings and speak good things of each
other. Blessed the Relief Society and its
interests and all our laudable undertakings.
	Choir sang, “Guide us, O Thou Great
Jehovah.” Benediction by George S.
Coleman.
		ANNA O. COLEMAN, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you al
much as possible for your money. TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank n Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the.....
Oregon Short Line
Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden...,..

ee that your tickets read via the
“SHORT LINE”
And Get the best

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles, D. E. Burley,
Gen. Tfc. Mgr. G. P. & T. A


[Column 1]
WOMANS CONGRESS IN PARIS.
	The meeting of women in International
Congresses, comparatively speaking, is yet in
its infancy, only two having been held up
to date, but both of those have proven emi-
nently successful, and the good that re-
sulted from them will doubtless be far-
reaching in its nature. These Congresses
are especially of great benefit to women
and the noble cause they represent.
	At these meetings women from all
quarters of the globe come together and
talk about matters of material interest, and

[Column 2]
thus a better understanding is effected be-
tween the women of the different nations
and they become more familiar with each
other’s conditions and needs. These meet-
ings tend also to bring women closer to-
gether and the spirit of sincere fraternity,
which is so essential to progression, is thus
fostered and cultivated.
	A good example of these gatherings is
presented in that of the Second Internation-
al Congress of Women’s Works and In-
structions which was held in Paris this year,
which in every way was a pronounced suc-
cess.
	The Congress opened in the grand Hall
of Congresses, on the 18th of June. That
people were interested in it was attested to
by the fact that the hall was filled long be-
fore the hour of commencement by the
many friends of woman’s cause.
	M. Mabillean, director of the social
musee, opened the Congress with a few
well chosen remarks wherein he expressed
himself as being in sympathy with the
woman’s movement, and he thought that
all difficulties and obstacles would be sur-
mounted and overcome ere long, and
woman’s cause be triumphant.
	President Monod then spoke eloquently
and with much feeling. First she paid
tribute to the memories of the ones who
were the prime originators of the Congress,
viz., M. Jules Simon and Mme. Emilie de
Morsier.
	“The family is an indivisible body which
the connection above renders complete.
We may say that woman is nothing without
man, and man nothing without woman.
Together they constitute the organic and
complete human being. When the Creator
said ‘It is not good for man to be alone, I
will give him an aid like to himself,’ he
certainly intended to give him neither a
slave nor a rival.
	“Many have thought and still think that
the cause of woman would take care of itself
the better the less was said about it. 
	“Do you not think, ladies, the experi-
ment of silence has been tried long enough,
and it is time now to try other methods?”
	She then spoke about the moral and in-
dustrial emancipation of woman as chief
issues before the Congress.
	“We hear much about the woman
in the home. What about all the
woman without a home? There are
3,000,000 unmarried women of marriagable
age in France. These must be armed for
their struggle. We must unite not only to
keep them, but to change conditions so that
children will not toe endangered in advance
with a deplorable heredity.
	“We must not be superficial, helping
here and there an isolated case, we must
combat the evil not in its effects, but in its
cause.”
	The speaker then said, “It has been
stated that the era of prevention must
begin.” She claimed charity was not dead
but living in a new form, that of preven-
tion.
	Mlle. Monod closed her excellent dis-
course in the following terms: “What will

[Column 3]
go out from this Congress? In a great
measure that which we ourselves carry
there. To work the works of justice and
peace let us bring here a spirit of justice, of
peace and of true fraternity.”
	Mme. Isabella Bogelot then made a
splendid address.
	Telegrams were sent to President and
Mme. Loubet and others. In the evening a
brilliant reception was given in honor of
the delegates in the palace of women,
where Mme. Pegard received the guests.
The evening was spent in admiring the
beautiful works of women in statues, paint-
ings and other objects created by women’s
talent.
							E. J.


Kana[-] Relief Society
Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

Vol. 29 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15 & APRIL 1, 1901. Nos. 20 & 21


CONTENT.
A Child of Nature....................E. B. W.			89
Celebrations, March 17, 1[-]01........................	91
D. R. Society..................................				91
Cannon-Willey Wedding..............A. J. C.		92
R. S. Reports....................................			93
In Memoriam..................................			[-]4
Salt Lake Stake..................C. S. Williams		95
Silk Notice................Margaret A. Caine		96
EDITORIAL—In and About Washington......	92
	Editorial Notes............................			93
POETRY—Crumbling...............L. M. H.		89
	Birthday Poem.................S. E. Moench		91


CRUMBLING.
Who reared that lofty frieze and architrave
O’er western desert fanes? And who the sum
Of untold years have named of hall and nave,
In crumbling ruin? Time is silent, dumb.
Who planned and placed almighty Jove or Thor,
The thousand pillar’d temple of the East?
And ere its waning what bold idolator
Did worship there, or who did hold his feast?
Where by Stalla’s azure-mantled sea.
The Sister Cities doomed for ages dire—
Lost Herculaneum and Pompeii?
O’erwhelmed by wild Vesuvius stormy ire!
Where now Minerva’s far-famed Parthenon,
“Athena’s wonder” that enthralled the world?
Fallen to dust, its glowing beauty gone—
The Grecian’s glory into ruin hurled!
Where grand, unrivaled Thebes and Tentyra,
And their divinities all o’er the plain?
Crushed ’neath the wheels of Time’s engulfing car!
All crumbling with their gods to earth again.
What famed Palmyra? ’Tis the wild beast’s lair!
Voluptuous Ninevah, so vast and brave?
The Ephesian City and strange “Temple” there?
The hooting owl sits brooding o’er their grave!
What Babylon? that fain would heaven amaze?
With Babel's tower, her walls and brazen bars?
The lion’s whelps cry thro’ her lonely ways,
Where the enraptured Chaldee worshiped stars!
What now thy once proud cities, Palestine?
The ploughshare brightens o’er their crumbling
	walls.
The olive waves aboye the Christian’s shrine,
His temples, palaces and halls!
Crumbling to dust is Petra’s rock wrought tomb!
And Baulbec’s temple—“sacred to the sun!”
Silent is “Mennon” wasting to its doom;
Earth once again, Rome’s monuments have won.
Crumbling the Astecs glory and their fame—
Thy sculptures rare, Palenque and Copan;
The dream of ages now but dust to scan.
Great London, thou renowned of all the world—
Thy banners floating over every nave:
Are they invulnerable when unfurled
’Gainst old Nemesis’ Time, and canst thou save?
Will ghostly shades flit thro’ each silent street,
Where he has reaped his human harvest here?
As now within thy famed crowned abbey west,
The weird spectres sound each mouldering bier.
Man hath his monuments; nations, cities, states,
Their centuries; to all the same as naught,
Threads spun, are wrought and severed by the
	fates,
To be respun again and still rewrought.
Man’s monuments are fleeting shapes of fame—
Like airy mists soon fading to decay,
God’s still enduring, still renewing flame,
Are starry worlds, and ever shining way.
January, 1901.					L. M. H.


MISS ANTHONY entirely disapproves of
Mrs. Nation’s smashing saloons; Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton entirely approves of
it; and the opponents of equal suffrage are
as much divided in opinion as the anti-
suffragists.


[Column 1]
		A CHILD OF NATURE.
	[Read before the Parent’s class in the Academy 
at Provo, Nov. 7, 1900, by Mrs. E. B. Wells.]
	A child of nature! What a sublime 
theme for the poet or the painter, but, alas!
for me who am neither, and only a poor 
scribbler, it is indeed beyond my language 
to express in words or sentiment this mighty 
subject. But because I fain would try to do 
each task allotted to me, however hard, I’ll do
my best tonight, even tho’ I may fall very 
far short of my own ideal. 
	The new-born babe is the fairest, sweetest 
flower of Paradise, and when the mother 
clasps it to her breast it is the supreme 
moment of her existence. No other earthly 
joy can possibly compare with the ecstacy of 
motherhood. All pain, all suffering, how-
ever great, is forgotten in that new life of
hers—the gift of God, the symbol of His 
love for woman, say what you will. God 
so loved the world that He gave His only
begotten Son, but He gave His only
begotten Son, but He gave Him through 
the woman, Mary, the mother of Jesus! 
Holy Motherhood! greatest and best of all 
gifts to womankind! 
	We behold the child! Who is it? What 
is it? It is curiously and wonderfully 
made; it surpasses our understanding. There 
are no words to convey the idea of the mother-
love. It is God’s child still, and it is its 
mothers; the spirit of the Eternal animates 
it, and it is endowed from on high with 
understanding in embryo; it smiles, it cries,
it opens its eyes upon the new world into 
which it has come, and, perchance, it 
wonders why—we none of us know, not 
even the mother who has borne it, and who 
claims it by a sort of divine right. 
	Byron in his wonderful prayer said, 
“Without my own consent I came but with my 
	wildest wish I go,
For I would fainly be the same I was ere born to
	woe.”
	But Joseph Smith, the prophet of this 
dispensation, has told us that we consented 
to come, to leave the glorious mansions on 
high and take upon us mortality. 
	I would I could tell you how Joseph loved 
little children, and to me this trait in his 
character is another proof, and a strong one 
of the divinity of his mission. Jesus loved 
little children and he taught the people that 
unless they could become like unto a little 
child, they could in no wise enter the king-
dom of heaven. 
	The babe may be born here or there, in a 
cottage or in a palace, or in the open air of 
heaven, or upon the great, wide ocean, the 
blood of the generations before it is in its 
veins, it is a part of the great human life,
but its destiny even to those around it is
unknown—for oft the little babe born and 
reared in childhood in the country of its 
forefathers, finds in its riper age a home far,
far from the land of its birth and childish
associations; and yet, methinks, almost al-
ways with something of its past clinging to 
it still, an inheritance not of lands or 
material possessions, but something innate 
that manifests itself in habits, tastes and 
qualities, a mysterious something difficult 
to analyze.

[Column 2]
	We may say the babe is the same whether 
born in sunny Italy or among the snow-
clad hills of Norway, or in any other clime
or any other country, and so it is apparent-
ly at its birth, but its growth and develop-
ment reveals to the acute observer phy-
sically and spiritually, or, if we may use 
the term, intellectually, in various phases al-
most intangible, yet unmistakable tokens of 
its birthplace and early environments, as 
well as its race and parentage
	I fear I diverge far from my subject, like
the preacher who takes a text for his dis-
course, yet wanders hither and thither and 
never touches it. However, one must in-
deed be narrow-minded if in so vast a field of 
beauty and of variety as that of a child of 
nature, one does not wander about some-
what at random, for there are no bounds to 
childhood's realm, no heights too lofty for 
its thought, no flights of fancy too ethereal
for its imagination. 
	It stretches out its arms at first to grasp
whatever it may seize upon; it tries its 
strength of limb in many ways; it begins to 
inquire first with its eyes; it asks for love,
for endearments, and when the baby lips 
can lisp but simple words how soon we find 
it longs for knowledge, of itself, the home,
the little things that surround its daily life.
The bird that sings or chirps at the window,
the flower that grows within or without the 
domicile or yard where it has strayed or 
been taken, the cat, the dog or other house-
hold pets, any and all the little living 
trifles that make up the sum of the daily 
life of the home.
	The love that is born in the child’s
nature, if cherished and fostered, is a mar-
velous gift, and ought never to be checked,
lest the natural tendency of its life become
artificial, or, we are apt to say, “soured.”
The child cannot have too much love, it is 
indeed possible it may have too much at-
tention and too much indulgence, but that 
is not true love. It is, however, my own be-
lief parents often control or govern too 
much (though neither of these are good 
terms to use in this connection.) They do 
not study child-life from the child’s stand-
point, but from their own older and more
matured views of life. I may be treading 
now on dangerous ground, but whatever 
my faults in dealing with children, I cer- 
tainly would never advise severity. It 
assuredly crowds out the beautiful in the
child’s life and makes the little one more or 
less unhappy, without producing the desired 
effect of willing submission to authority,
that is beyond its comprehension.
	Happily for the children of this genera-
tion, the rod has gone out of fashion; we 
have indeed fallen upon better times and 
the chances are all on the side of self-
development instead of self-abasement. If 
we do not go too far and get self-conceit in-
stead of a proper degree of modesty, if we 
can strike the happy medium in child-life,
then indeed we may begin to believe in the 
coming of a higher race, because the 
parents themselves will have learned how 
carefully to deal with the delicate nature of 
these little precious plants, given into their
<c>are fresh from the garden of the gods.


[Column 1]
	I have sometimes thought that if our
Father in Heaven were to deal with his re-
fractory and disobedient children in the per-
emptory way some intelligent parents do
with theirs, there would be a great change
come into the world suddenly.
	I am quite sure, however, I was not asked
or expected to write a dissertation upon the
training of children, but simply to tell you
of the child of nature.

I tell the story old, creation’s song
	Thrilling the mother-heart the ages down
New every day as centuries roll along,
	The height-of motherhood—the crown.

Fresh from the royal courts far, far away.
	All duly poised whither in winged flight,
There came a fairy creature—bless the day!
	Into the motherland of glad delight.

This beauteous one brought hither joy and grace
	And made the dream of life more radiant still,
Than erst had been that happy home and place,
	Though sacred were its duties to fulfill.

The beauty of the little babe bespoke
	The harmonies which to the soul belong,
And all the higher, finer senses woke
	To the divinest melody of song.

	It is thus the little child comes into our
midst, first into the home nest, but gradu-
ally into the great, busy, bustling, worka-
day world. It comes to know evil where it
may perchance have thought all was good
—finally it knows temptation, and, oh, how
terrible if it is not wisely taught, and care-
fully guarded. If reared in a home where
simplicity of living is the rule of life, and
thrift and honesty and all the homely
virtues are inculcated in its daily associa-
tions, where vanity, pride and prejudice
are things unknown, and freedom of
thought and action encouraged and strength-
ened by healthy exercise of mind and
body, and above all where reverence for
all that is sacred is taught in precept and
by example—then indeed are the environ-
ments such as must naturally tend to make
the child.

“A thing of beauty and a joy forever.”

	And true to my own theory of one’s past
clinging to the personal character or devel-
opment, here let me say, the child allowed
to roam, or one inclined to be much in the
haunts of nature, grows in a sense akin to
its surroundings, and these rural scenes,
these pageants of nature, these magnificent
panoramas, help the child to enter, as it
were, into the Temple of glory “through
the gate called Beautiful.” Who would
dare to say this admiration of the works of
an Almighty hand do not lift the soul of
the child into loftier heights and feast itself
in the realms that are fresh with the im-
press of Him, who has made all things by
His infinite skill and divine power? Thus
Gray, the poet, says:

"The meanest floweret of the vale,
The simplest note that swells the gale,
The common rain, the air, the skies.
To him are opening Paradise.”

	The love of nature is a great gift, and
one for which no description can prepare
us so well, as to be in a sense, to the man-
ner born. The greatest thing in the world
is to see something, and yet one might
fancy from what we know of some people
that they had walked through the world
with their eyes shut, or at any rate
with them closely veiled.
	In nature we have the most wonderful
variety. It is more than pictures on the
walls or in the galleries, for they are al-
ways the same, but outdoor life, whether in
the heavens or on the earth, is changing

[Column 2]
every day, every hour, or every moment.
Evidently, as one great writer has said,
“The material world was not made ex-
clusively for the purpose of being painted.”
	But here again I fear I am digressing,
and I was not expected to talk about art,
and really were I to launch into color there
is no telling what extravagances I might
indulge in, because it is one of my pet
hobbies.
	I would not wish that the child might
grow up in the woods in order that it
might be good, nor yet would I reason that
one reared in a crowded city would for that
cause alone be bad; but one cannot help
recognizing the effect of the wonderful
pageantry of nature upon those who have
lived much in its realm. One need not go
far for illustrations, not that we are not in
favor of progress in its modern sense, but
if we look at the men (leaving women out
of the question) who have helped to move
the world onward, we must of necessity re-
fer to those that have been brought up,
one might almost say, to use a homely
phrase, “in the backwoods.”
	For instance, Brigham Young, whose
ideas of progress in almost all directions are
to be seen today on every hand, who
founded this great institution of learning
from which so many students have gone
forth into the great world to build up homes
and colonies and establish industries, and to
preach the Gospel to those that sit in dark-
ness, was born and reared in the Green
Mountains of Vermont, and remember those
were not bare mountains like ours, but
covered with dense forests, from which the
great trees were hewed down to make a
clearing for human habitation. Brother Smoot
the president so many years of this Stake of
Zion, and whose record is engraven on the
hearts of the people here, is another illustra-
tion of the same idea, tho’ he lived in a
different part of the country but where it
was new and wild and primitive.
	Abraham Lincoln, of the same type,
was another of the stalwarts born
to just such an inheritance. The founders
of this Church were nearly all of them men
reared among the scenes of nature and
acquainted with the hardships of outdoor
life, as well as gifted with the rich heritage
of the love of nature’s haunts. I recall
vividly to mind more than one of these
Nature’s noblemen who delighted in the
poems of nature, because it brought back
recollections of the scenes of childhood and
youth—the woods, the brooks, the hills, the
rocks, the wild flowers, the songbirds, the
meadows, the mosses and the ferns. And
these things impress even the strong
natures of men, making them gentle, kindly
and thoughtful, not only of human beings,
but of animals. Such a one was Brigham
Young. He treated his animals' with the
utmost kindness and consideration.
	In these days of the craze for fresh air
one would naturally suppose that the chil-
dren would incline to the studies and
beauties of scenery in its wilder character,
instead of which it seems apparent nowadays
that cricket and football and such like
games are the order of the day much to the
regret, I had almost said disgust, of the
tender-hearted mothers, and I might add
the hard-worked, over-burdened mothers,
who have not only the tending of their
wounds and bruises, but the mending of
their jerseys and trousers.
	The Roman proverb that a child should
be taught nothing but what it can learn

[Column 3]
standing up, went no doubt into an extreme,
but surely we in this day fall into another
error, or an extreme equally dangerous,
when we act as if athletic ames were
the only thing which boys could learn upon
their feet. The love of athletic games
among boys may be a healthy instinct, but
is, in our opinion, carried too far in some of
our great scho[-]ls.
	Our children born here, though not
brought up in the woods, have yet an
intimate association with the beauties of
nature. We have as yet no densely-
crowded cities, but lofty mountains whose
snowy peaks seem to reach to the skies, the
canons that are full of beauty and of variety,
waterfalls, rivers, brooklets, lakes and an
inland sea of surpassing beauty, the wonder
and surprise of tourists and scientists; an
abundance of fresh air and lands to culti-
vate and make beautiful and servicable.
	The character of our children, brought up
among such scenes of nature’s manifold
grandeur, should be of surpassing excel-
lence. They should excel in all the virtues
that are most useful and desirable. They
should and must, for it is the prophecy of
the future, become physically, mentally,
morally and spiritually the greatest states-
men, heroes, scholars, scientists, artists,
linguists and preachers of righteousness the
world has ever produced; the best and
wisest fathers, the tenderest, gentlest and
noblest mothers, examples and teachers of
all mankind. Such is to be their high
destiny, and in view of the fulfillment of
all these things, how shall we order their
lives aright? Temperance and moderation in
all the habits and pursuits of childhood;
healthy exercise upon the farm, or in the
field a part of the year, not too much close
confinement in the schoolroom all the year
round, but leave some development to
nature and obeying nature’s laws. Study
some things from the great book of nature,
as well as from the books of men.

"There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
There is society where none intrudes,
By the deep sea, and music in its roar;
I love not man the less but nature more,
From these our interviews from which I steal
From all I may be or have been before,
To mingle with the universe and feel
What I can ne’er express, yet cannot all conceal."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISS LUCIE BARRON, of Clarendon, has
been elected State Librarian of South
Carolina.
	QUEEN WILHELMINA was “given away”
at her wedding by four peers of the realm,
Victoria was given away by her uncle. The
custom of giving away the bride is an an-
achronism, a relic of the days when a
woman was a chattel belonging to her male
relatives. It seems peculiarly absurd
in the case of a queen. Happily it
is nowadays only a form. It is well known
that both Victoria and Wilhelmina chose
their own husbands.
	MRS. L. H. GREENWALD, of York, Pa.,
is said to be the only woman weather fore-
caster in the country. She has been em-
ployed by the government in that capacity
for twelve years, has been often commended
for exceptional accuracy, and is an ac-
knowledged authority on climatology and
meteorology. Mrs. Greenwald is also
president of a woman’s organization inter-
ested in scientific research—the National
Science Club.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY POEM. 
	To President Jane S. Richards.
Pause for a moment and backward, turn back
O’er life’s strong ocean of time,
	Its billows and roar,
	And tempests it bore,
To a scene of grandeur sublime.

’Tis our Father’s dwelling, the home of our God,
Who dwelleth in mansions above,
	Where zephyrs so calm,
	Bear only the balm,
The balm of true heavenly love.

The Father called forth from his palace of peace,
A daughter so trusty and true,
	“Because of your worth,
	A mission on earth,
Is given my daughter to you.

“Go forth in your calling, be humble and brave.
Act nobly and wisely your part,
	The cross you must bear,
	If the crown you would wear,
And reign with the righteous at heart.”

In a neat little cottage a baby was born,
’Twas “only a girl” it is true,
	So tiny and weak,
	With no power to speak,
Or tell what she came here to do.

All, all was forgotten of that blest abode,
That life of exquisite bliss,
	With music and song,
	From heavenly throng,
All changed for the sorrows of this.

But often there hovered around that dear child,
A spirit of heavenly ray,
	Which helped her along,
	Through evil and wrong,
By whispering, “This is the way.”

She heeded the whisper and shunned many snares,
Through childhood and also through youth,
	When a message came,
	In our Father’s name,
And brought her the Gospel of truth.

Twas the “Pearl of Great Price,” she gave up
		her all,
That one precious pearl to possess;
	She knew ’twas the key,
	To life’s grand mystery.
Which opened the door to success.

From that very moment her life work began,
Each weakness she sought to subdue,
	The cross she would bear,
	The crown she might wear,
For she knew that the Gospel was true.

We can but begin to portray the good work,
That her willing hands have done,
	But this we must say, 
	By her unselfish way,
Our love and respect she has won.

And now to our bountiful Father in heaven,
We earnestly, fervently pray,
	So loved and so true,
	Aunt Zina and you,
May have happy returns of the day.
						S. E. MOENCH.


[Column 1]
	CELEBRATIONS, MARCH 17, 1901.
		POCATELLO, IDAHO.
	Tuesday afternoon the Relief Society
of Pocatello celebrated the anniversary
of its first organization by the Prophet
Joseph Smith. A meeting was held in the
afternoon, and a program was rendered
consisting of speeches, songs and recita-
tions, and a paper was read by President
Harrison giving the history, rise and pro-
gress of the society. In the evening an
elegant supper was served, after which a
dance was enjoyed by the old and young.
			MORONI.
	Our Relief Society has just held its an-
nual celebration of the organization of the
first society of its kind, by the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Nearly all the married
folks participated, and a very en-

[Column 2]
joyable time was spent from noon until
midnight. A suitable program of
songs, recitations and addresses was
rendered. A fine repast was provided and
much appreciated. The light fantastic
was duly tripped; indeed it was just such a
time as our wives and mothers know best
how to make.
		ELEVENTH WARD.
	The Eleventh Ward celebrated the fifty-
ninth anniversary of organization of the
Relief Society in their ward hall, on Mon-
day evening the 18th, when the following
program was rendered.
	Selection by the choir. Prayer, Charles
Livingston. Solo, Laura Madsen. Read-
ing, Alexander M’Master. Duet, Olive
Cushing and Alice Wickens. Recitation,
Erma Felt. Soprano Solo, Emma Arm-
strong. Recitation, Ethel Allen. Soprano
solo, Nellie Penrose Whitney. Sketch of
Society Work, Maria Bidgood. Recitation,
John Knight. Solo, Sperry Lawson. Reci-
tation, Josie Morris. Song, Henry Hul-
bert. Remarks by Bishop Morris. Bene-
diction, Isaac Sears.
	A very enjoyable time was spent.
		SARAH H. G. M’MASTER, Pres.
		ELIZABETH D. LEAKER, Sec.

		AN ENJOYABLE TIME.
	The Relief Society of Lehi celebrated the
anniversary of the first organization by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, on Monday evening,
March 18, 1901, by having a social party in
Garff’s Hall. About one hundred and fifty
sat down to supper. After all partaking of
the repast the following program was
rendered:
	Opening hymn, “Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah.” Prayer by
Elder W. Southwick. Address of Welcome
by President Rebecca Standring. The
company joined Elder James Kirkham in
singing “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Speech by Bishop T. R. Cutler.
Solo, Mrs. N. Garff. Speech, State Senator
A. J. Evans. Solo, Mr. James M. Kirk-
ham. Speech by Counselor A. R. Anderson.
	Dancing then commenced, President
Standring leading the grand march, fol-
lowed by the Board of Directors the
trustees and teachers, who were distin-
guished by wearing white waists and black
skirts, and wore very slight headdresses.
	The remainder of the evening was spent
very enjoyably in dancing. A time long to
be remembered.
	ALICE STANDRING, Sec.
		ST. JOHN, KANSAS.
	We have been instructed through the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT that all the Relief
Society should meet on the 17th of March
each year, to celebrate the organization of
the society in the year 1842, and to pay a
membership fee of ten cents each.
	Our society was organized January 8,
1899, by Elder W. T. Jack, he being the
president of our mission at that time.
	We met at our church in St. John,
Kansas, March 16, 1901, (the 17th being on
the Sabbath) for the purpose of celebrating
that day, and had a short entertainment of
which the following is a sketch. Our
president presided.
	Opened by singing “Redeemer of
Israel.” Prayer was offered by Grand-
father Baker. Continued by singing “Come
all ye sons of God.” Elders King and

[Column 3]
White talked to us for a short time and
gave us some good instructions, after which
we served refreshments.
	Each member present gave her ten cents
membership fee, which amounts to one
dollar and thirty cents ($1.30), which
amount we send as per instructions.
	MARGARET BUDGE, Sec.


D. R. SOCIETY.
	The Annual meeting of the Utah State
Society Daughters of the Revolution was
held Saturday, March 16, 1901, in the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT office, Templeton
Building, and was an enthusiastic gather-
ing. An excellent program was rendered
and followed by the election of officers for
the present year: Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams,
Regent; Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth and
Mrs. Mary A. H. Cannon, vice-regents;
Mrs. Sarah F. Smith, Rec. Sec; Mrs. Lucy
W. Smith, Ass’t. Rec. Sec.; Mrs. Julia F.
Lund, Cor. Sec.; Mrs. Myra Y. Rossiter,
Treasurer; Mrs. Mary E. F. Webber, Regis-
trar; Mrs. Susa Y. Gates, Historian; Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Chaplain. Committee on
Program and Entertainment, Mrs. J. F.
Lund, Mrs. E. W. Hyde and Miss Claire
Clawson.
	The next meeting will occur on April 19,
as that day is the battle of Lexington. The
next year’s work includes the following:
	April I.—Colonization: (a) Growth of
Colonies; population. (b) Nationality; from
what class of society. (c) Language; religion;
industries. Miss Katherine Wells.
	May—II. Government of Colonies: (a)
New England; middle colonies; south. (b)
Charter; proprietary; royal province. (c)
Leading cities. Miss Mabelle Snow.
	June—III. Great Political Parties: (a)
Whigs and Tories in England and America.
(b) Famous leaders. (c) Their influences.
Miss Claire Clawson.
	September—IV. Causes of the American
Revolution: (a) Rights of Englishmen;
Magna Charta; establishment of the
House of Commons; petition of rights
(Charles I.); bill of rights 1688, etc.;
rights of people under such acts, (b) Re-
lation to American history, (c) Oppres-
sive laws and acts and their effects on
colonies. Mrs. C. S. Williams.
	October—V Important events of 1875
and 1876: (a) First Continental Congress;
place of meeting; purpose of president;
noted delegates, etc. (b) Beginning of the
war; Lexington; Bunket Hill. (c) Survey
of opposing forces, officers, etc. (d) Siege
of Boston. (d) Declaration of Independ-
ence. Mrs. Hyde.
	November—VI: From 1776 to 1783: (a)
Geography of the American Revolution;
outline the battles; movements, etc., and
locate important historic spots from Lex-
ington to Yorktown. Mrs. Lucy Smith.
December—VII. Government of the
colonies during the Revolution: (a) Con-
gress, articles of Confederation and the
State government. (b) Great leaders.
Mrs. Mamie Cannon.
	January—VIII. Close of war: (a) Win-
ning of independence. (b) The definitive
treaty of 1883. (c) The extent of terri-
tories ceded to the colonies. (d) Our com-
mission in Paris. Mrs. Webber.
	February—IX. Romantic events con-
nected with the Revolution: (a) Boston
tea party; Nathan Hale; death of Mont-
gomery; Arnold’s treason; Andre; Lee at
Monmouth; surrender of Cornwallis, etc.,
etc. Mrs. A. S. M. Horne.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, at
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAR. 15 & APRIL 1, 1901.


NATIONAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The conference of the National Relief
Society will be held in the Assembly Hall
April 8, commencing at 10 o’clock.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
			JANE S. RICHARDS,
			BATHSEBA W. SMITH,
			SARAH JANE CANNON.


CANNON-WILLEY WEDDING.
	On Thursday, March 21st, occurred the
marriage of Miss Emily Hoagland Cannon
and Mr. Israel Emerson Willey.
	The marriage ceremony was performed at
noon in the Salt Lake Temple by the bride’s
uncle, President Angus M. Cannon, and in
the evening members of the families and a
few friends gathered at the Cannon home
to offer congratulations and good wishes.
An elaborate and delicious dinner was
served at five o’clock, after which the hours
were pleasantly spent in conversation, inter-
spersed with musical selections, the bride
herself favoring the company with a song.
	The rooms were beautifully decorated
with cut flowers, vines and potted plants
from the home conservatories, and altogether
the gathering was one of the most informal,
sociable and delightful affairs of the season.
	The bride is a most charming and talented
young woman, the daughter of President
George Q. Cannon, the only cloud to the
wedding festivities being that the beloved
father was not present, having sought a
lower altitude and warmer climate, on ac-
count of ill health.
						A. J. C.


[Column 1]
IN AND ABOUT WASHINGTON.
	Our readers have heard all about the
inauguration ceremonies and read Presi-
dent McKinley’s speech, undoubtedly, and
the inaugural ball has been written up
with elaborate details all over the country;
and, therefore, one scarcely knows what to
tell of great interest, even though one has
visited the nation’s capital and been present
at public proceedings of great importance.
	Mrs. Gates, too, has told the same story in
her graphic way, and, therefore, one must
still repeat the same things over and over.
However, each one speaks for herself in her
own way and may give her own impressions
of places and incidents.
	It is always worth while to go to Wash-
ington when Congress is in session, if one
has the opportunity. There is at these

[Column 2]
times something of interest to the American
people, even women, who are not supposed
to be after Federal appointments; and
certainly at a time when a new administra-
tion is coming in people flock from all parts
of the country in great numbers.
	Washington was full to overflowing on
March 4th of 1901. Long before the time
to open the Senate galleries the halls were
filled and the rush at the doors when opened
was tremendous; the men in charge, how-
ever, preserved order, and the seats and
aisles were very soon filled.
	At first the great attraction was the en-
trance of Vice-President Elect Col. Theodore
Roosevelt, and after that had subsided the
President, his cabinet, Judges of the
Supreme Court and Foreign Ministers,
Ambassadors and Officers of the Army and
Navy, whose elaborate uniforms gave a de-
cided rich tone in contrast to the general
sombre regulation dress of State dignitaries.
Ladies all over the house watched the
Executive gallery to see Mrs. McKinley
enter, and many glasses were turned in her
direction, as was perfectly natural, when
one occupies the high position of the Lady
of the White House.
	Inside the capital the crowd was totally
oblivious of the weather, but in peering out
the crowds on the street, ranged in dense
columns, were standing in pouring rain,
never flinching in the least, waiting to see
the President appear on the stand, in front
of the great historic building. Such
cheers as were raised must be heard to be
appreciated, even though the weather was
so unfavorable, and the flags, banners and
insignia of the day and time were soaked
through and through. We stood very near
and heard every word distinctly. The
President’s voice was clear and far-reaching
and the crowd were so enthusiastic that one
wondered what the effect would have been
had the weather been fine.
	Afterwards along the street where the
parade was expected to pass the people were
simply packed, waiting in pouring rain for
hours to see the officers of State and
the military.
	Colonel Willard Young rode with Gen.
Greene, at the head of the parade, and of
course the Utah people were delighted to
see him in this place of honor. All those
who witnessed the parade were eloquent in
praise of the management of so immense an
affair. In the rooms on Pennsylvania
Avenue, which Senator Kearns had secured,
there were many Utah people, Mrs. John
Henry Smith and her niece, Mr. and Mrs.
H. G. Whitney and Mrs. Willard Young,
Mrs. Ben Rich, Jr., Mrs. Sol Seigel, Mrs.
J. E. Bamberger, President George C.
Parkinson, Mrs. Wilson, Miss Ivers, Mrs.
John Kearns and many more, all too
seriously intent on watching and admiring
the parade as they filed past to make any
comments, but we did notice how the Presi-
dent bared his head and bowed and ac-
knowledged the enthusiastic cheering of the
crowd in his honor.
	The inaugural ball in the new pension
building the same evening was one of the
most elaborate affairs ever given at the
capital, (some people said the most) the
floral and electrical decorations were works
of art and the music was of the highest
order. The surging crowds of people up
stairs and down were exceedingly interest-
ing to look at, though very little dancing
could be indulged in, as there was not
space, and it seemed surprising in such a
crowd to find any one we knew. We met

[Column 3]
there John Young and his mother, formerly
Libbie Canfield, of Philadelphia, whom we
had not seen for many years.
	The next evening we attended the con-
cert given in the same hall, thinking we
would be better able to see the decorations,
and to hear the patriotic music and songs;
but, alas for our hopes, the crowd was much
greater, and we were told it continued so
up to the last evening of the series of con-
certs.
	Washington has had a gala time of festi-
vities during the inaugural week, recep-
tions, operas and theatres all over-crowded,
even the receptions at the White House
were no exception, also excursions to the
various historic places and buildings, so
much so that it was not a good time to see
these places to advantage.
	To one deeply interested in the welfare of
his country and of its progress, such visits
to the capital are instructive and broaden-
ing, and in a direct sense educational; but
there is not even space to give facts, and
therefore one must not indulge in one’s own
impressions.

	The evening of our arrival we attended
the Republican Woman’s banquet, an
elaborate gathering of two hundred notable
women from all parts of the United States,
(and a few men) Mrs. Foster presiding,
Mrs. Foster received in the parlors at the
Riggs house for the first two hours, per-
haps, and then repaired to the banquet hall,
where the floral decorations were very ele-
gant and artistic, and the banquet all and
more than one could desire. Mrs. Foster
looked superb and acted not only as hostess
but toastmistress, and filled both positions
without apparent effort, gracefully and in
a dignified manner. Mrs. Gates, of Utah,
responded to the toast “What protection
has done for Utah in the way of indus-
tries.” Her speech was humorous and
forceful and her audience was intensely
appreciative, if one can judge by the
applause, and she received many congratu-
lations afterwards.
	Thursday evening and Friday all day we
attended the International Press Union
meetings held at the Riggs House, Mary S.
Lockwood, president, at which we had the
opportunity to speak, also Mrs. Gates; and
other privileges on committees, etc. There
we met a number of women whom we had
known previously—Mrs. Clara B. Colby,
editor Woman’s Tribune, a good friend to
our people, another prominent press woman
and other good friends.
	Mrs. Foster arranged a trip for some few
ladies to Glen Echo to pay a visit to Miss
Clara Barton, President-General of the Red
Cross, whose fame as a practical philan-
thropist has encircled the world. This visit
was most delightful, and enroute, via
Georgetown, where we changed cars, we
saw the unpretentious dwelling of Mrs. E. D.
E. N. Southworth, whose stories were the
delight of young and old twenty and thirty
years ago. Her home is prettily situated
on the bank of the picturesque Potomac
river, a most romantic spot, the opposite
bank rising in galleries of evergreen trees.
Fancy what it would be in summer, with
its picturesque sailing boats and the per-
fume of Southern bloom.
	We found upon our arrival at Miss Bar-
ton’s home that she was much better in
health and really glad to see us, chatted
pleasantly a little about herself, as the
ladies drew her out, and finally was per-
suaded to show us some of her gifts and


medals given her by royalty and distin-
guished people of the nobility of foreign
lands and our own, in recognition of her
work for suffering humanity. Miss Bar-
ton’s name is not only engraven on medals
of honor and precious gifts set with jewels,
but on the hearts of many thousands at
home and abroad, never to be obliterated.
She is a Yankee of the old Bay State, born
in Oxford. She is small with rather strong
features and unpretentious and unassuming
in appearance, but great and heroic in soul
and in purpose, and with the ability to cope
with all adverse conditions and bring order
out of chaos. A rare woman of extraordin-
ary endowments, she has blazed the way for
her sisters of the Red Cross, who have the
courage to follow in her footsteps.
	On the afternoon of the same day we at-
tended a reception given by Mrs. J. Ellen
Foster, at the “Portner,” where we met
many more ladies and a few gentlemen, and
had an encounter, so to speak, with a
Methodist minister who knew the Rev. T.
C. Iliff, and had visited Utah. We invited
him to come again and see for himself and
get facts.
	Mrs. Foster’s guests of honor were two
cousins of hers, Miss Houghton, of Cali-
fornia, and Mrs. Bradbury, of Boston, very
interesting and intellectual women, whom
she wished to present to her friends.
Among the ladies who attended were several
we had met before, but many were total
strangers. Mrs. Olive Logan, whom we
had met at the Republican reception, well
known as a writer and speaker, and sister
of the late Gen. Logan; she has recently
married quite a handsome young man,
(though she is advanced in years) who has
taken her name, and seems very proud to be
the husband of so eminent a woman.
Another celebrated woman present whom
we knew very well, was Mrs. Ida Husted
Harper, of Indianapolis, who spends her
winters in Washington, a famous writer and
brilliant journalist. She made one of the
best speeches, if not the best, at the Inter-
national Congress of Women in 1899. Mrs.
Harper wrote the Life of Susan B. Anthony
and is now engaged to write (indeed has be-
gun the work) the Fourth Volume of
Woman’s Suffrage. We met in Washing-
ton also Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer, our
good friend when we first visited conven-
tions in that city, and Mrs. Ellen Spencer
Mussey, a woman lawyer who holds many
responsible positions of honor; Mrs. Belva
A. Lockwood, a dear old and tried friend;
Marilla M. Ricker, firm as the everlasting
hills in friendship and fidelity, and Dr. Kate
Waller Barrett, with whom we dined at her
own home in Alexandria, a home full of
beautiful things and a jolly, happy family
of young people; Mrs. Fannie Humphreys
Gaffney, President of the National Council
of the United States, and her husband and
charming daughter, Jayta.
	Of other noted people and historic places in
Washington, Baltimore and New York, we
will tell you more anon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	In the Twelfth Ward, in this city,
Bishop H. B. Clawson and Relief Society
President Julia Druce united in celebrating
the anniversary of the organization of the
Relief Society in 1842, and the affair was a
brilliant success. A fine banquet was
given and all present had the opportunity
of partaking of the delicious viands. Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon pronounced the


blessing upon the food. The program was
delightfully carried out, Elder Thomas L.
Woodbury was master of ceremonies and
carried his part well. George Margetts
and Sydney Clawson provoked a great deal
of merriment and Mrs. Nellie Brown
warbled ragtime melodies quite naturally
to the accompaniment of the banjo. Music,
both vocal and instrumental, was excep-
tionally good, and the solos by Nellie
Druce Pugsley and Seymour B. Young, Jr.,
were simply divine. Indeed where all do
well it is difficult to make special references
but an exception must be made in favor of
Miss Druce’s piano playing, she bids
fair to make a brilliant pianist. Governor
Wells was present by invitation, as also
several other notable men and women.
	On Friday evening the 21st of March,
the Saints of the Fourteenth Ward and
many of the old-time residents, now scat-
tered in other parts of the city, held a re-
union under the auspices of the Bishop,
but the affair was largely in the hands of
the young people. Love and goodfellow-
ship abounded, and there was a fine pro-
gram rendered and many interesting
reminiscences were given. This historic
building is one of the first of its kind
erected in this city and many enjoyable
gatherings have convened there. Presi-
dent Brigham Young and many of his col-
leagues have danced there in the early
days, President Eliza R. Snow Smith has
often been present there, both on festive
and sacred occasions. It has always been
a favorite place for recreation as well as
meetings. Dr. Willard Richards, Dr. Levi
Richards, and Elder Phineas Richards, all
resided in that ward, also Apostle Frank-
lin D. Richards and his brothers, Samuel
B. and Henry P. Richards, for very many
years. President John Taylor and Patri-
arch Joseph Horne, also at an early period
President George Q. Cannon; and his
brother, Angus M., President of this Stake
of Zion, is still a resident there. Many
old-timers made brief remarks during the
evening, there was sweet singing and
music and dancing, and the program
closed with “Auld Lang Syne.” Delic-
ous refreshments were served to all the
invited guests and the hours flew swiftly
by. These are the green spots in life’s
pathway.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SEVIER STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
held at Richfield, in the Relief Society hall
at ten a. m., November 24, 1900, President
Christina Sorenson presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet." Prayer by
Sister Agnes Thurber. Singing, “Prayer
is the soul’s sincere desire." Minutes of
the last conference read and accepted.
	President Christina Sorenson made open-
ing remarks. Spoke of the instructions
given at the General Conference in Salt
Lake City, also of the second coming of
Christ and the building up of the center
Stake of Zion. Said to prepare ourselves,
set a good example to our children, put away
selfishness and keep the Word of Wisdom.
	President A. Thurber reported the Rich-
field Relief Society. The sisters are trying
to do their duty; teachers report favorably;
meetings held semi-monthly; visit the sick;
visit the Young Ladies and Primary.

[Column 2]
	Sister Hannah Roberts reported Anna-
bella Relief Society doing a good work;
grain in their own granary; have a good
lot of sisters; teachers visit regularly.
	President Mary Buchanan reported Glen-
wood Relief Society; sisters are willing to
donate; hold semi-monthly meetings; have
a good lot of sisters; grain in their own
granary.
	President Mary Anderson reported Koosh-
arem Relief Society in good condition. Al-
ways felt well paid in coming to conference.
	Sister Josephine Jensen reported Salina
Relief Society in good condition; grain in
their own granary all right; sisters willing
to perform their duty; visit Young Ladies
and Primary.
	President A. M. Dastrup reported Sigurd
Relief Society: meetings well attended[-]
sisters willing to help; felt to do her duty.
	Sister Elizabeth Gledhill reported Ver-
million: sisters are interested and willing to
do their duty; grain in tithing granary.
	President Seegmiller presented for vote
General and Stake officers of the Relief
Society—all sustained by sisters.
	President Seegmiller was pleased to hear
reports of sisters. Spoke of the late General
Conference; of the second coming of Christ;
of the labors of the Prophet Joseph; build-
ing up of the Center Stake of Zion. Thought
the Relief Society was doing a great work.
	Secretary Mary Swindle read Stake
report.
	President Christina Sorenson spoke of
nurses class; of membership fee; hoped we
would be prompt this afternoon.
	Minutes read and approved. Singing,
"Earth with her ten thousand flowers.”
Benediction by President W. Seegmiller.
	At 2 p. m. conference continued, Presi-
dent C. Sorenson presiding. Singing,
“O, ye mountains high.” Prayer by
Brother G. M. Jones. Singing, “Now let
us rejoice.” Minutes of last conference
read.
	President Laura Staples reported Elsi-
nore: sisters are united; teachers are well
received; grain in tithing granary.
	Sister Cora Birdsall represented Monroe
Relief Society: have testimony and work
meetings; sisters united: wheat in tithing
granary.
	Joseph, Inverury, Burrville, Marysvale, Au-
rora, Venice and Redmond not reported.
	President C. Sorenson spoke of the
General Relief Society House to be built in
Salt Lake City. Related the success of the
committee who went to see President Snow,
and that we are expected to do our part.
Spoke of the joy of our aged sisters to look
forward to the time when the place will be
completed; of the interest taken by all the
Stake presidents, who voted each Stake
would do its part. Hoped the sisters of
our Stake would not be behind in this work.
	Vice-President Mary E. Magleby read
from the EXPONENT of March 1899, about
this house, also read a circular from the
General Board, dated November 2, 1900,
about this building, also the Relief Society,
Young Ladies and Primary having an inter-
est in the same.
	Vice President Ellen Hanson said, “I am
glad to be numbered with the sisters of the
Relief Society, it is good to speak by the in-
fluence of the Holy Spirit. Cultivate our
speech, show a good example to our chil-
dren. Let us live humble before the Lord,
obey the Priesthood and ask the Lord to
help us to do our duty.
	Brother G. M Jones favored us with a
solo, “Visions of the Old Folks at Home.”


[Column 1]
	Sister Lucy Heppler said, “No doubt all
have taken in the spirit of this conference.”
Spoke of this conference, and of the in-
fluence of these meetings; of life and work
of mothers at home and the many duties
devolving upon us. Was glad to hear good
reports. Spoke of the famine in India,
flood in Galveston, also of returning to
Jackson County and of the second coming
of Christ. Said, “Of course we must have
a house, to be a beacon to the world. Let
us go on in this great work. The evil one
is trying to overcome our children, not only
teach but fast and pray for our children.”
	President Sorenson made closing remarks.
She was pleased with the instructions given.
Spoke of the money to be gathered for the
house.
	Minutes read and approved. A vote of
thanks was given to Brother Jones and
choir. Singing, “Our God we raise to
Thee.” Benediction by Sister Laura
Staples.
			MARY SWINDLE, Sec.
R. S. HAWAIIAN MISSION.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of the Hawaiian Mission, held in the Laie
meeting house, October 5, 1900, President
Alice R. Woolley presiding.
	Meeting commenced by singing “Stars of
morning shout for joy.” Prayer by Sister
Kalua. Continued by singing “Ye who
are called to labor and minister for God.”
Minutes of last conference, held October 7,
1899, were read and approved.
	Sister Alice Woolley said, “Through the
mercies of our Heavenly Father we meet
again in our conference to be fed the bread
of life. I am thankful to our Heavenly
Father for His kindness during our past
lives. We meet together to encourage one
another and to listen to the instructions
that will be given us. We are a blessed
people in being privileged to live on the
earth in these last days, and we are receiv-
ing great blessings each day, and the great-
est of these blessings is the privilege we
have of embracing the Gospel of Jesus
Christ. We have been baptized into the
true Church as Jesus said was necessary,
as recorded in John third chapter fifth verse:
‘Unless a man is born of the water and of
the spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom
of God.’ If we read the newspapers we
can see that the end is near at hand, there-
fore let us ever be on the watchguard.
During the month of June last, I in com-
pany with Sister Williams and Pualvia,
visited the Islands of Hawaii and Maui.
We visited among the people, encouraging
them and I was very much pleased to see
the interest the young girls were taking in
the Relief Society work. This is a work
that will help us as members of the Church
of Jesus Christ and I exhort you all, my
sisters, to be faithful, and may the Lord
bless us all.
	Ruth Kauhine, president of the Laie
society, reported said society in a good con-
dition. “We hold our meetings weekly,
have good programs and endeavor to take
care of the poor in our midst.”
	Sister Hattie Davis, of Awaiolimu, said
we observe Saturday of each week as our
meeting day, and we have a full attendance.
Our membership extends over one hundred.
We take care of the poor and needy, widows
and orphans and assist in taking care of our
missionaries.” She was very pleased to
meet again in this capacity.
	Sister Julia Wilder reports mission-

[Column 2]
ary labors in the Island of Kauai. Said
“We found the sisters in a favorable con-
dition, and as a rule the people were ener-
getic in their labors.”
	Sister Ellen Cole desired the faith and
prayers of all, that she might be able to say
something that would be beneficial to all
persent. I endorse the remarks of Sister
Wilder in regard to our labors in Kauai.
The Saints were kind, thoughtful of us, and
we did not suffer for anything that was nec-
essary for us to carry on our work.” She
felt thankful that she had been privileged
to spend a portion of her time among this
people, was thankful that we met today
nnder such favorable circumstances.
	Sister Oliver, of Waikiki, reported that
society as follows; “We meet each Thurs-
day of each week. Our society is fully
organized and I am pleased to say that a
goodly number of our members are here to-
day. We help the poor and needy and
there are some widows and orphans in our
midst, and we try to do our duty towards
them.”
	Three branches from Hawaii, six from
Maui and four from Kaui were reported by
their representatives as being in a prosper-
ous condition, all working unitedly and
striving to carry on this great work accep-
tably before our Heavenly Father.
	Sister Kealohapauole reported her mission
to Kohala and Hamakua, Hawaii, as suc-
cessful, followed by Maunahina, a mission-
ary to the same district. They traveled
among the people and tried to encourage
them in their labors, exhorted them to be
faithful. “We were blessed of the Lord on
our journey and did not lack for anything.”
	Sister Fernandez and company, of
Awaiolina, then favored us with a song,
“Beautiful Eden.”
	Sister Olive Pendleton was pleased to
meet with us today and asked the blessing
of the Lord upon ns all.
	Sister Williams made some encouraging
remarks and reported her labors on Hawaii
and Maui. Felt that she had been abund-
antly blessed of the Lord while she had been
on her mission. She had been privileged
to visit three of the Islands of this group
and met with the people in their homes as
well as in their meetings. She exhorted all
to be faithful and help with this great
work. Bore her testimony to the divinity
of the Gospel.
	The Kahana society was reported by
Poopuu.
	Sister Hannah Makanoe gave a descrip-
tion of her trip to Zion in company with her
mother. Gave a synopsis of her labors and
experience there. She was very much
affected, had come here on business and in-
tended to return to Zion where the re-
mains of her mother lie buried in Utah soil.
Spoke on the principle of gathering and of
the condition of Hawaiians at Josepa, Utah.
“In Zion we have trials, but they only
make us stronger.” Spoke of the blessings
to be obtained in the Temples. Exhorted
all to be faithful and to carry on the great
work our parents had begun.
	Sister Minerva Fernandez was thankful
she had been privileged to become a mem-
ber of the Church of Jesus Christ. We
are told he that has faith, repents and is
baptized, will be saved: but he that be-
lieveth not shall be condemned, She en-
dorsed the remarks made concerning the
young girls joining the society and assisting
in the great work.
	Sister Woolley made a few closing re-

[Column 3]
marks and meeting adjourned by singing-
and benediction by President Samuel E.
Woolley.
	Number present two hundred and sixty-
one.

	Monday morning, October 8, 1900, an
officers’ meeting was held at the Mission
House at nine o’clock. There were eighty
present, consisting of the local and visiting
sisters. The spirit of the Lord was with us
in rich abundance and a well prepared pro-
gram was rendered, consisting of songs,
speeches upon the principles of the Gospel,
and testimonies and encouraging words
from a number of the sisters. Some valu-
able instructions were given by President
Alice Woolley and Sister Williams concern-
ing the Relief Society work, its blessings
and benefits and the duties of the officers,
teachers and members in the same, and ex-
hortations to the mothers to teach their
children correct principles and to have faith
in the Priesthood of God, so that in times of
sickness they would rely upon the adminis-
trations of the servants of the Lord.
	After meeting a lunch was served by the
white sisters to all present, both to the sis-
ters and a large number of brethren who
had come to say “aloha nu” before leaving
for their several homes.
	A feeling of brotherly and sisterly love
was manifested by all and many were the
hearty handshakes and a God bless you as
we separated, feeling we had been fed with
the bread of life and that this was the best
conference we had ever had.
		ALICE R. WOOLLEY, Pres,
		ELIZABETH WILLIAMS, Cor. Sec.
	Laie, Oahu. NOV. 12, 1900.
GRANITE STAKE.
	The second quarterly conference of the
Reliet Society of Granite Stake was held
in the Taylorsville meeting house, Novem-
ber 10, 1901, President Emma S. Wood-
ruff presiding. Meeting convened at 10
o’clock a. m. Singing “Redeemer of
Israel.” Prayer was offered by Stake
Counselor Edwin Bennion. Singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
	Present on the stand were Stake Counse-
lor Edwin Bennion, President M. Isabella
Horne, of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Soci-
ety, President Woodruff, Counselors Mary
P. Young and Katharine H. Brockbank,
Secretary Armeda S. Young and Treasurer
Maria B. Winder, of the Granite Stake
Relief Society, President E. Pixton, of
Taylorsville, and most of the presidents of
the different wards were present.
	Roll called, showing all the Stake officers
present, 23; local officers 23. Minutes of
the morning session of the former confer-
ence, held August 1, 1900, read an
accepted.
	President Woodruff made opening re-
marks in her kind, welcoming way. She
was pleased with the minutes of the last
conference. Read a business letter from
the General Board relating to the Woman’s
Building. Made some very interesting re-
marks and gave instructions concerning
the building. Said they were very anx-
ious to get the foundation in this fall if
possible. Regretted being obliged to ab-
sent herself from the afternoon meeting,
but as the monument of President Wood-
ruff was to be dedicated that day she must
excuse herself. She felt proud of the sis-
ters of Granite Stake, and loved them. Re-
joiced in the kingdom of God and loved to


labor in the Relief Society. President
Taylor had said to her that it would be
impossible for him to be here today. She
had invited Sister Horne to come and com-
fort and bless us. Felt that every time we
could get her it added one more to our ad-
vantage. Prayed the Lord to bless us with
His Holy Spirit.
	President Sarah B. Gibson reported
Sugar Ward; President Jenson, Forest
Dale; President Turnbow, Farmers;
Counselor Hamilton, Mill Creek; President
Eliza Ann B. Neff reported East Mill
Creek and spoke of the faithful few she
could always depend on. Said obedience
is one of the first laws of heaven. Where
there is obedience there is no dissension.
Gave an account and explained the way
they managed their Fairs.
	President E. S. Woodruff said: “Sisters,
if you want to ask any questions about the
“house,” you can get instructions from
Sister Horne.”
	Miss Winnie Tibbs gave, with much
expression, a pleasing recitation.
	President Woodruff said: “I must now
bid you good bye, sisters, and God bless
you. I will leave Sister Mary Young to
preside.”
	Murray Ward was reported by President
Margaret Carruth; South Cottonwood by
Counselor Annie M. Thompson.
	President Pixton, of Taylorsville, said:
“Sisters, I feel well repaid by having the
conference here today and I am sorry our
Bishop is not here, but he is a good mem-
ber, the right man in the right place. The
erection of this Woman’s Building that has
been talked about I think is good. I hope
the project will meet with the greatest suc-
cess.”
	Counselor Mary P. Young said; “We
will leave the rest of the reports and give
the time to Brother Bennion.”
	Brother Bennion: “I hope I will be led
by the Spirit of the Lord in what I say.
All these societies in the Church are for
our betterment. Those who enjoy these
meetings are those who come regularly;
and if we attend all our duties regularly
we will receive the joy of it. The duty of
the sisters is to attend these meetings. I
believe those that stand up to speak are
more benefited, as they are supported by
their sisters and they receive peace and joy.
If we do every duty then we don't feel any
regret for a neglect.” He spoke of the
necessity of cultivating charity, referring
to the Apostle Paul’s teachings. “Paul in
writing to some of the Saints told what a
hard thing the tongue was to control.
Alexander the Great said that he who
can control himself is greater than he
who can control a city. In the Relief
Society work is the place to exercise the
gifts of faith, love, kindness and cheerful-
ness, as nothing gives such joy as to ad-
minister to others. The Savior, I believe,
had joy greater than any of us can con-
ceive, although he had great suffering.
Home is the place to begin to do good, to
love our neighbor and those around us. I
honor the sisters of Zion, especially these
aged ones who have been tried and proved.
They cannot receive too much honor. Let
us teach the young people to honor, love
and respect them. God bless you. Amen.”
	Singing, “Guide us, O Thou Great
Jehovah.” Conference adjourned till 2 p.
m. Benediction by President Elizabeth
Pixton.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
		MARY ANN CHRISTENSON
	It becomes our painful duty to record the death 
of our beloved sister, Mary Ann Christenson, who
departed this life February 2, 1901. She was a 
great sufferer for over two years with dropsy and 
other diseases. A few of the Relief Society sisters 
visited her two days before she died. She bore a 
faithful testimony of the goodness of God. She 
died as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.
She was born in Allbury Co., Denmark, February 
14, 1837, baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints May 28, 1883, and emigrated 
to the valley in 1883. She was the mother of 
eleven children, nine of whom survive her. 
	The following resolutions were adopted by the 
Relief Society of the Lyman Ward in honor of our 
beloved sister and colaborer, Sister Mary Ann
Christenson.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has called our 
beloved sister from our midst, who was a faithful
worker, a kind and loving mother and a friend to
all.
	Resolved, That our Heavenly Father has called 
her home and that we desire to emulate her ex-
ample; that we herewith express our sympathy 
for her heart-broken husband and her loving chil-
dren and grandchildren.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed on 
the records of the Lyman Relief Society, one sent 
to the bereaved family and one to the EXPONENT 
for publication.
			JEANNETTE SENROOT, Sec. 
		MARY CLARKSON LARK.
	Sister Lark, whose recent death we record here 
was born in England sometime over seventy 
years ago, and received the Gospel in her native 
land, emigrating to this country with her husband 
and family for the sake of her religion.
	She passed away at her home in Woodland,
Summit county, Utah, January 28, 1901, after a 
severe illness of ten days with La Grippe. Her 
husband preceded her to the “other side” a few 
years ago, and now she has gone to meet him to 
part no more forever. She leaves four children, 
two sons and two daughters, and a host of friends 
to mourn the loss of a kind and thoughtful mother 
and adviser. 
	Sister Lark, or “Aunt Mary,” as she was affec-
tionately designated by those who knew her inti-
mately was a consistent and upright Latter-day 
Saint, and was regarded as a model woman in her 
daily life and conversation, never speaking ill of 
any one. Such an example is worthy of imitation 
by all, and especially those who profess to live by 
the Golden Rule. 
	Sister Lark was very highly esteemed by mem-
bers of the family of President George Q. Cannon,
with whom she had been intimately associated in 
past years, as nurse and companion in times of 
sickness, and some of them were acquainted with 
her for thirty years.
	Her loss will be deeply felt, for she was beloved 
by relatives, neighbors and friends; but our loss is 
her gain, and those who remain have no need for 
sorrow, except that of missing her society here
Our beloved ones are not lost, they are safe, and 
those who loved them here should not mourn with-
out hope of meeting them again, but strive to follow 
in their footsteps, that they may attain to the same 
exaltation hereafter. 
	“They are not lost, they are within the door 
	That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing,
	With angels bright, and loved ones gone before,
	In their Redeemer’s presence evermore,
	And God Himself, their Lord and Judge and
		King.”
								S. J. C.


[Column 1]
		SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the Salt
Lake Stake was held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Hall, March 2, 1901,
President M. I. Horne presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “Oh Jesus,
the Giver.” Prayer by Maria W. Wilcox.
Singing, “O say what is truth.”
	Present on the stand were Sisters Zina D.
H. Young, B. W. Smith, M. I. Horne,
Sarah J. Cannon, Annie T. Hyde, Clara C.
Cannon, Maria Wilcox and Julia C. Howe.
	After some business reports were given,

[Column 2]
Sister Horne thanked the sisters for the
interest they had taken in her during her
sickness, acknowledged the hand of the
Lord in raising up friends to them during
the time they were quarantined and
thanked the Lord for His great goodness to
them. Said she felt like Job—the afflic-
tions she dreaded most had come to her.
She had been promised her life should be
lengthened out to perform the duties de-
volving upon her.
	President Zina D. H. Young said,
“Obedience is better than sacrifice.” She
was glad to be with the sisters. The restor-
ation of Sister Horne’s health was as the
restoring spirit. Felt very much in earnest
as to the work which would have to be ac-
complished. The Lord has opened up the
way for His people. If we are humble and
faithful and keep the faith of the Lord with
us, we will be blessed and preserved.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said we certainly
all rejoiced to have these dear mothers with
us today. Spoke of the words of Solomon,
that those who should look towards the
holy temple, (in that day) with prayerful
hearts, should receive a blessing. Felt that
we are a blest people and should be happy,
and not a sorrowful people. Thought we
had everything to be thankful for, and
should have faith and teach our children
faith. Spoke of the marvelous way in
which we obtained records for Temple
work. Believed that the Lord would open
up the way for all who desired to do
Temple work. Told the sisters of the con-
templated organization of a class in parlia-
mentary law by Mrs. Urquhart Lee. Read
what the Prophet Joseph Smith said with
regard to this in the first organization of the
Relief Society. Hoped the Relief Society
presidents would have a representative at-
tend this class. It was certainly necessary
for each society to be conducted in a busi-
ness way.
	Sister Clara C. Cannon said, “The 17th
of March will soon be here and the several
branches of the society will take pains to
have the meetings, and also collect the fund
towards the expenses of the General Soci-
ety.” Thought it was necessary to re-
member this great day. Made good and
encouraging remarks to the sisters on the
subjects of Temple work, belief in the Gos-
pel, faith in the Lord and in His com-
mandments to us. Sister Cannon also en-
dorsed the study of parliamentary law and
believed it would result in much good.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith encouraged
the sisters to attend this class. She would
join it herself and if it did not do her much
good, was sure it would help others. Knew
that the Prophet endorsed this in his day
and thought it was just as necessary at the
present time. Prayed that the Lord would
help us to keep in the faith, that we might
never go astray.
	Sister Sarah Jane Cannon said she wished
to join this class, and believed it would do
much good. What we learn in this life we
will not need to learn in the hereafter.
Was thankful to have Sister Horne here
with us. Said we should be careful to do
the little things of life, they will often re-
sult in more rea[-] [illegible line]
	Morning session closed by singing “The
time is far spent.” Benediction by
Clarissa S. Williams.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing
“How firm a foundation.” Prayer by Sis-
ter Clara C. Cannon. A quartette from the
Temple choir sang “O Jesus, the Giver of
all we enjoy.”


[Column 1]
	Sister Horne welcomed the sisters, of
whom there was a large number present.
Spoke in her usual kind, motherly way a
few moments. Told the sisters to do their
duty and lay up treasures in heaven.
	There being so many more present at the
afternoon meeting Sister Annie T. Hyde
announced the forming of classes in parlia-
mentary usage, and urged the sisters to at
least send one representative from each
ward.
	Sister Julia C. Howe appreciated the
fellowship of her sisters, said it is a day of
progression, also a day of trial. In every
position we should do our duty, temporally
and spiritually. Spoke of the Relief
Society as being the parent society. En-
larged on the numberless duties connected
with this society which we should give our
close attention. Advised the sisters to
seek the Lord for His help to assist them to
perform the requirements made of them.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson said it is a
blessing and a comfort to mingle with the
Latter-day Saints. She was truly thankful
to be one of the people. Likened the meet-
ings of the sisters to the school of the
prophets, as the things we learn here are
such as we could not learn any where else.
Spoke of the day of trial which would surely
come upon us, thought we should cultivate
kindness and every good quality of character
and prepare ourselves for the great work of
the future.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze said she was
pleased to be present, felt blest in the
privilege of associating with good men and
women. Told of the anxiety of those who
could not visit the Temples and be in con-
stant association with the prophets of the
Lord. Hoped we would all appreciate the
great blessings which we enjoy. Seeking
for the spirit is the proper way and will
bring us into possession of that spirit, and
our Father alone can read the heart, and as
long as we keep the faith it will finally lead
us aright.
	Sister Ruth M. Fox bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel and spoke
of trials as being stepping stones to glory,
thought they prepared us for the future and
rendered us more broad and useful. Be-
lieved that happiness meant work and work
meant happiness. We want to overcome our
trials and not let them overcome us.
Thought it an honor to be a member of the
Relief Society and a greater honor to be a
member of the Church. Asked the Lord to
bless every one of the sisters in their efforts
to do right.
	A beautiful solo was rendered by Sister
Maggie Hull, the song was entitled “When
I get to the end of the way.”
	Sister Lula Greene Richards hoped when
“we get to the end of the way” we would
have the same sweet singers to greet us.
Advised the sisters to have a reccomend
ready to go to the Temple and take ad-
vantage of it occasionally. Believed we all
desired to have our children taught in the
way of the Lord. Likened the spirit in the
Temple to the spirit of a kind parent, and

[Column 2]
was afraid we were not appreciating the
privilege of the Temple and the good we
get there.
	Brother C. J. Thomas rejoiced to hear
the good remarks which had been made.
While he had not seen the Prophet Joseph
he had seen and heard many glorious and
wonderful things, Was thankful for the
honor and the privilege of being called as a
worker in the Temple. Said the Lord is in
waiting and urging us to attend to the
glorious Temple privileges.
	In her closing remarks Sister Horne said:
“We are very anxious for our sons, but
what of our daughters? Is not their mis-
sion as great as any other, and perhaps
greater? They bring the souls of the
generations of men to earth. Their mission
is wonderful and the sisters should be en-
couraged in their duties.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
The quartette sang, “Zion stands with hills
surrounded.” The singing was a very
enjoyable feature of the afternoon’s exer-
cises. Closing prayer by Sister Sarah
Phelps.
CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, Ass’t. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you al
much is possible for your money.							TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
Oregon Short Line
	Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . . . .

See that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the best

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles,			D. E. Burley,
	Gen. Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T. A


NOTICE TO THOSE INTERESTED IN SILK
				CULTURE.
	
	The Utah Silk Commssion desire to call 
attention to the fact that the time for raising 
silk is again upon us, and we trust that 
those who intend entering upon the work
this year will write to us at once for eggs.
Those who are taking up the work for the 
first time will kindly state the number and 
size of the trees from which they can obtain 
leaves, also the number of persons who can 
give their time during the latter period of 
the raising season, so that we will be able 
to send the necessary number of eggs. We 
also desire to state that eggs can be obtained 
from the Commission free, and we would 
prefer to have every one who is going to 
raise the worms obtain eggs from us, as we 
provide a quality which gives much better 
results than those raised by people having 
little or no experience. We will also send 
pamphlet of instructions free to those wish-
ing any information on this subject.
	We also wish to remind the people that 
the season for planting trees is here, and 
while we have been greatly pleased with 
the number of trees which have been 
planted during the last few years, yet we 
are anxious for an increase in this work, as 
the production of large quantities of silk in 
the future depends on the planting of trees 
now. One of the sad things which still 
comes to our notice is that we occasionally 
hear of some one's destroying some of the 
old trees, and we urge those who have be-
come interested in this important industry 
to be watchful lest any more of these valuable 
trees be destroyed.
	We again ask those who have trees and 
do not care to use them, to allow others to 
use the leaves, for we assure you it will 
only benefit the trees, even if they are strip-
ped, they will soon come out much more


beautiful and will only help to destroy the
fruit which is sometimes so annoying,
especially where trees are planted on the
street.
	Address all communications to Margaret
A. Caine, Secretary Utah Silk Commission,
Room 502, City and County Building, Salt
Lake City, Utah.


The chapter of the Autobiography of
Sister Sarah B. Layton, and also a part of
the Relief Society report of Granite Stake
were left out of this issue of the paper after
having been “set up,” also two poems, but
they will appear next month.


Woman’s Exponent.
		The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
Vol 29 						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15 & MAY 1, 1901. 						Nos. 22 & 23


CONTENT.
A Second Letter....................................			95
R. S. Report............................				96
Notes and News..................................			96
Autobiography of Sarah B. Layton.............		97
Sixth Ward Anniversary......Elizabeth Condie	100
Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting...............		100
Relief Society Hall Dedicated...Emily Clark		101
Obituary........................................				101
R. S. and P. A. Reports..........................			101
Celebrations, March 17th......................			102
EDITORIAL—In Memoriam........................		96
	Editorial Notes..........................			97
POETRY—In the Wilderness of Mexico........	95
	Zion’s Mighty King..........L. D. Alder		97


[Column 1]
IN THE WILDERNESS OF MEXICO.
Camping on the lonely prairie, with a brilliant star-
	lit sky,
In the distance weird and weary, listening to the
	coyotes cry—
He is fierce and wild and hungry, watching at this
	midnight hour,
Howling, barking in a frenzy, seeking whom he
	may devour.
In this wilderness so quaint, nature’s children roam
	at will,
Savage tribes now run at riot, over plain, and
	dale and hill.
Through the grass so tall and slender, reptiles
	drag their length along,
In their nests the birdlings tender long have
	hushed their vesper song.

Craggy rocks the precious metals, like unwilling
	prisoners hold—
Flowers, too, have closed their petals, holding
	dewdrops in their fold,
Like sentinels the prickly cactus, rear their tower-
	ing forms on high,
As afflicted Saints in anguish, turn their faces to
	the sky.
Mascall, so heavy in her juices, dot the hillside
	thickly here.
Born to pamper man’s abuses, oft to cause the bit-
	ter tear!
Like so many of God's mercies, destined for a
	higher plain—
But by evil minds perverted, bringing endless grief
	and pain.

Even through the winter hours, oose is green—
	while graceful vine
Makes luxuriant fair bowers, in the treetops where
	they twine;
Mistletoe like faithful brothers, clinging in the
	limbs above,
Just as true, devoted mothers, never loose their
	bonds of love.
While the stralight soft and mellow, forms the
	covering of my bed,
Mother earth my welcome pillow, Father watch-
	ing overhead—
Wondering brain, in wakeful vision, wandering to
	former days—
Ancient peoples and their mission, what their
	habits, hopes and ways.

Now from out the yawning caverns, o’er the cliffs
	so high and steep—
Where they dwelt in fear and trembling, dusk[-]
	faces seem to peep—
Forms seem flitting from each crevice, voices
	whisper soft and low,
Echoing o’er hill and terrace, thrilling tales of
	long ago!
When the ancient tribes of Lehi sought to find the
	promised land,
Thither led by righteous Nephi, through the Lord’s
	inspired command.
He who took the wise position ere to live by holy
	light,
By example and monition, sought to guide his
	brothers right.
Yet though brothers of one mother, angry jealousy
	and strife,
Oft arose with one another, through their wild and
	rambling life.

Through repeated generations, peaceful days were
	far between.

[Column 2]
Though they laid such grand foundations, relics
	now of which are seen,
Mounds and terrace in profusion, strongholds in
	the mountain peak,
Where they fled in wild confusion, peace and safe-
	ty there to seek.
Records, too, were often hidden ’neath the strong,
	cemented wall.
Where the pine trees now unbidden, rear their
	branches thick and tall.
Smooth Matatti, broken oyer, hyroglyphics on the
	stones,
And uncovered there before you, bleaching,
	mouldering human bones.

And it seems opposing forces, met in warfare’s
	dread array.
For we find their battle axes, even at this distant
	day.
Ancient structures long since buried, modern
	science [-]as revealed
Pomp and crime, to one grave hurried—raging ele-
	ments concealed,
Was it when the blessed Savior gave His life for
	mortal sin?
That in penitent behavior, earth and sea their
	faces hid?
Beauteous plains and peaceful valleys, in convul-
	sive natures throe,
Wildly threw themselves together burying cities
	far below.

Closing o’er their wretched victims—silenced all
	their songs of war,
Stilled the voice of hopeful peacetime—final set-
	ting of life’s star—
No more to rise, till generations long have slept
	and passed away,
While their old corrupt traditions, with their bodies
	find decay
Heaven’s Truths are never vanquished! Writ on
	pages golden leaved—
Though long buried, while men languished, is
	again to earth revealed!

Telling of those ancient races, how they struggled
	with the right.
Till before their frightened faces, beamed the
	Everlasting Light!
Darkened natures to illumine, by God’s sacrifice
	for sin.
How His Son with passions human, came redemp-
	tion to begin.
How He taught the Jewish nation principles of
	righteousness,
Speaking words of sure salvation, all mankind to
	save and bless.
But rejected was the message, by the many on the
	earth!
Little knew they of the blessing, that would bring
	celestial birth.

For the world for many ages, long in stagnant
	darkness slept,
As we find on history’s pages, yearning men and
	women wept,
Heresies and false traditions, blinding faith, ob-
	scured desire—
Only lowered man’s condition, smouldering the
	dying fire,
Till a youth of humble station, destined by a
	power on high,
Had angelic visitation, telling where the records
	lie,
That restored again the Gospel, in its fulness to
	the earth,
Bringing to all tongues and peoples, promise of
	Eternal birth.
ELLIS R. SHIPP.
Colonia, Jaurez, Chihuahua, Mexico.


MRS. MCKINLEY is to be presented at
San Jose, with a bouquet more than a hun-
dred feet in circumference, and containing
two tons of flowers. The flowers will all be
contributed and a special committee are
working to have all the different varieties
of blossoms and leaves in the country in-
cluded.


A SECOND LETTER.

A WORD OF LOVE AND GREETING.

Beloved Sisters:

	Agreeable to our promise, and also in ac-
cord with our most heartfelt desires, we
again address you. It is our most earnest
wish that we may commence as though we
were actually in meeting with you and
could feel your presence with us; and by
the influence of the Holy Spirit we may
understand your inmost thoughts and needs
and be able to offer such suggestions as may
meet the necessities and fill the require-
ments of the sisters who are anxiously
striving to learn and do their full duties in
the Relief Society.
	Again we will remind you of the
holy and grand work for woman to
which you are called in this important
organization. As formerly stated, we will
also repeat that to be a good member of the
Relief Society, and especially to hold office
therein means work. There is always
business of importance to be looked after,
and it is highly essential that a correct
understanding of all the business of the
society be sought for and obtained, so that
all the work may be done in order and in
harmony.
	How necessary it is then that the Holy
Spirit be cultivated, as it is impossible to
carry on the work acceptably without it.
While with its aid and support, even the
weakest of us need not shrink from any duty
to which we may be called by proper
authority. And here we will say, that
when we are in the full line of our duty we
will be in accord with the priesthood.
	One great lesson for us to learn if we
have not already done so, is to speak no evil.
Study Christ’s Sermon on the Mount and
practice its teachings, especially remember-
ing ‘‘Blessed are the peace makers, for they
shall be called the children of God.”
	We are interested in the welfare of our
sisters, the young as well as the old; and we
invite you all to attend the Relief Society
meetings and conferences. Young mothers
would be greatly benefited and blessed by
the instructions of older sisters who have
gained wisdom by lives of toil and experi-
ence. The mission of a mother is a holy
calling, which is attended with many cares
and anxieties. And every mother needs
the Spirit of God to assist her.
	The more you attend your meetings, the
more the spirit of your callings will rest
upon you, and your burdens will become
lighter and your daily tasks be easier to
perform, and your life will be sweeter and
brighter. Teach your children to pray, to
observe the Sabbath, to have regard for the
authorities of the Church, their parents,
aged people, places of worship and all such
things. Teach them to be orderly, obedi-
dient while they are young, and their
minds are pure. Be awake, sisters, get the
Spirit of God, and don’t let the cares of life
and worldly things prevent you from at-
tending to the duties which you owe to God
and to each other. You have all received
talents from on high. Don't fold them in a


napkin and lay them away, but bring them
forth to be used for the benefit of mankind.
Let your light shine to help lighten the
world, that all may glorify our Father
which is in heaven.
	How rich were the blessings showered
upon the Saints at our late General Confer-
ence! Let us not forget or lose sight of
them. And how encouraging to us were
the great gatherings of the sisters at our
Relief Society Conference on the 8th of
April, 1901. Seldom before had we so large
an attendance at a sisters conference. Those
of you who had the privilege of being pres-
ent will, we trust and believe, try to fully
appreciate the point which was that day so
clearly and practically illustrated regarding
the necessity of our having a building of
our own suitable for our general conferences
and all needful business. And let the spirit
of progression, the influence felt at our con-
ference, be diffused throughout our entire
society, that every one may be profoundly
interested in the erection of our Woman’s
Building, and use all legitimate plans for
raising the necessary means to accomplish
this very desirable end. Talk up this
building, sisters, in all your assemblies and
in your conversation until the matter is ac-
complished, which we dare to anticipate may
be at an early day. But while talk and
agitation are essential we must keep in mind
that intelligent planning and energetic labor
are the agencies, after all, by which great
works are accomplished. 
	Let us show our appreciation of the mag-
nificent gift which the presidency of the
Church have bestowed upon us in the form
of a beautiful building site, by erecting
thereupon a building worthy of the situa-
tion; a house that shall stand as a monu-
ment to do honor to the women of Zion.
	Beloved sisters, we have hopes of seeing
the contemplated building completed in our
time, which, according to the common
course of mortality, may not be many years
longer in the flesh, and that President
Lorenzo Snow in his time may have the
privilege of dedicating it. We hope to hold
at least one conference with you in our own
building, and as many more as the Lord
may, in His infinite goodness, see fit to al-
low.
	Now, as always, we pray God to bless
you all in your loving and charitable duties,
and that His Spirit may guide and aid you
throughout your lives.
	Your sincere sisters and co-laborers,
ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
JANE S. RICHARDS. 
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
SARAH J. CANNON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
GRANITE STAKE.
(Concluded.)
	Afternoon session, November 10, 1901,
Counselor Mary P. Young presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “O say what is
truth.” Prayer by Sister Armeda S.
Young. Minutes of afternoon session of
previous conference read and approved.
	Sister Young said, “We will now hear
the reports.”
	President M. E. Porter of Granger re-
ported her society in good condition; Presi-
dent Charlotte Neilson, of Hunter, reported
her society in a lively condition; President
Mary Parker, of South Taylorsville,
gave a good report; Counselor Louisa

[Column 2]
Cummings, of Wilford, reported the recent
organization of that ward and spoke of the
energy of the officers and members. The
number of teachers was eight and members
fifty. Counselor Julia Jensen, Big Cotton-
wood Ward, reported her society as making
it a practise of visiting those who were not
able to come out and holding meetings
in their homes.
	President M. I. Horne said: ‘I feel very
thankful, my brethren and sisters, to be at
your conference. I have visited among
you for about twenty years. I was very
much pleased with the minutes of your last
conference. You have excellent officers in
the Granite Stake, both men and women,
of God. I cannot say one thing to you of
benefit unless prompted by the spirit of the
Lord.” She was pleased with the remarks
of the president as they were timely and to
the point. “By our daily course we are
judged; our acts and thoughts are all open
to our Heavenly Father, the angels are
silent notes taking. As Brother Bennion
said this morning, 'We are here in a school,
we are to take our tabernacle and be proven
in this school by trials and tribulations.
How was it with Job?’ I often wonder
how it was that Satan was allowed to so
afflict and try him. Job was an upright
and just man.” Sister Horne spoke
earnestly and very interestingly upon the
trials of Job and his integrity, and said, “I
wonder why so many of our sisters stay
away from meetings? There is a book kept
of our record and another one is to be
opened, if we are so lucky as to have our
names recorded on the Lamb’s book of life,
we must arouse ourselves and have our
lamps trimmed and burning.” Spoke feel-
ingly on the sermon of President Cannon
concerning the coming of the Savior. The
signs of the times, said false spirits will
come among the people and teach false
doctrines. “When you see these signs
know the time is drawing nigh. Read the
Prophet Isaiah, it is full of prophesy con-
cerning these days.” Urged the young peo-
ple to read this book, especially the third
chapter. Quoted from Daniel and said the
prophecies of the Prophet Joseph Smith are
coming to pass daily. Drew our minds to
the condition of many of our people today
and their slackness. The Lord calls, per-
suades but forces no man to heaven. Felt
that the sisters had been too careless about
the wheat and the need of their waking up
and being more energetic concerning this
most important duty. “The time is coming
when those who will not take up their
sword against their neighbor must flee to
Zion. President Woodruff told us at the
dedication of the Temple that the sword
would be unsheathed and would reap down
the nations. The scriptures say, ‘I will
send them the truth, and if they do not ac-
cept it, I will send them fables.’ ” Refer-
red to the rebelion of Satan when he drew
one third of the hosts of heaven with him.
What would we have been if the Lord had
not organized the Relief Society through
the Prophet Joseph? We should have
been groveling with earthly things and
working at home not improving the spirit-
ual by attending these meetings. The
Prophet Joseph in his time said this society
would flourish and grow until it became
one of the greatest on the earth.
	Sister Horne then mentioned the Fairs
the Relief Society had in the early days and
the amount of means that had been raised
in this way. Encouraged the sisters to

[Column 3]
take hold of these things. She hoped that
 the sisters would take good care of the
wheat; flour should also be kept. She had
eaten bread made from flour kept for four-
teen years and it was sweet. Prayed that
the Lord would bless the officers and
Bishopric of the Stake who spend their time
in doing good. “May the Lord bless
you, sisters, and the Lord will bless you in
as much as you are faithful.”
	Winnefred Tibbs then pleased the congre-
gation with one of her interesting recita-
tions.
	Counselor Brockbank made some very
pleasing remarks and said many of the
wards would do well to pattern after Sister
Neff’s society. She enjoyed Brother Ben-
nion’s remarks, that by living up to our
duties we should receive blessings.”
	Treasurer Maria B. Winder felt a desire to
do all the good she could and felt an in-
terest in Relief Society work since travel-
ing among the sisters. Thought we should
pray in the assemblies. She spoke of the
Temple work and the good it had done her.
	Sister Armeda S. Young bore testimony
to her love of the Gospel.
	Counselor Mary P. Young made closing
remarks. “Two features that interested
me particularly were the reports of the two
extreme wards: one reported of their success-
ful Fair work, the other reporting of the
sisters of her society going to comfort with
words of cheer and encouraging with
their presence the afflicted ones who could
not attend their meetings. The world looks
upon death with fear. Related a story told
to the Primary children that showed so
beautifully the reason we should not fear
death, but always feel to say, “Thy will
not mine be done.” Spoke of some when
they had sickness feeling to rebel at their
condition and the spirit of darkness crept
over them and made them feel horrible.
But when they were resigned to God and
willing to say “Thy will not mine be
done,” peace would come to them. Sister
Young related numbers of instances of
mothers rebelling and the sorrows that
came to them. She then announced the
next conference to be held in three months.
Said Sister Woodruff wanted the mission-
aries to report at the next officers’ meeting.
Singing, “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers.” Benediction by Counselor
Bennion.
			A. S. YOUNG, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	A new compauy started this year in
Manchester, England, the “Manchester
Distributive Kitchen Limited,” will cook
meals and deliver them ready for the table
It is purely a business undertaking. If the
scheme meets with success, it will be ex-
tended to other localities, working-class
neighborhoods especially. The distribuitve
kitchens are expected to prove not only a
boon to women who cannot find cooks, but
a good training school for servants.
	Mrs. Ida Eckert Lawrence, of To-
ledo, O., has been chosen to write the poem
to be read at the launching of the battle-
ship “Ohio,” at San Francisco in May.
Mrs. Lawrence hopes to go to San Fran-
cisco to read her own poem. Mrs. Worth-
ington Babcock, of Columbus, a step-
daughter of Governor Nash, of Ohio, has
been selected to name the “Ohio.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ZION'S MIGHTY KING.
Upon the cross the Savior hung,
A crown of thorns pressed on his brow,
With anguish deep His heart is wrung;
Aloud he cries, “ ’Tis finished now.”

His slayers taunt with cruel scorn,
"Come down, if Son of God Thou be.”
The world’s Redeemer He was born,
From sin to set His people free.

In agony He bowed His head,
With broken heart and moans he died;
All nature groans, her light is fled,
God’s sinless Son is crucified.

These emblems eat, remem’bring Him, 
His body broken for our sake,
That we may life eternal win,
When in his likeness we awake.

Now of His blood so freely spilt,
Drink and make thy covenants new,
Then from the dreadful stains of guilt,
Thy trembling soul is purged anew.

O, solemn thought, the Savior’s slain!
But here we’ll testify of Him,
Till He shall come to earth again,
To reign as Zion’s Mighty King.
	Lydia D. Alder.


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON
			(Continued.)

	It was on the 3rd of September, 1852,
that we arrived, and the people were busy
discussing a sermon that Orson Pratt had
given the Sunday before our arrival.
	After resting some time and taking din-
ner with Brother Smith, I left Brother and
Sister Layton and went with my sister to
Kaysville, Davis Co., where she and her
husband had made a home,
	I staid with my sister a few days, but it
seemed that the only subject discussed was
what Orson Pratt had preached. I then
realized that there were more covenants and
obligations to enter into and I fully believed
the principle was true, but I felt that I was
not prepared to live in that order. I made
it a matter of prayer before the Lord, that
if I were not able to live up to those
covenants, that I might be released from my
promise. I spoke to Brother and Sister
Layton about it, and told them I did not
want to make those sacred covenants lest I
should not be able to live up to them. And
still in that principle there are promises that
are no where else. I realized I had coven-
anted to serve the Lord, and I could not
deny that as one of His orders for us to
obey if we would secure the highest degree
of glory, I sometimes wished that I had
not promised to obey that order. The
struggle to decide whether or not to enter
that order of marriage caused me to lose
many a night's sleep, and caused me to
utter many a fervent prayer to the Lord
that He would guide me. I felt that if I
now refused to respect the promise that I
had made I would be despised by my best
friends, and lose the respect of those who
once looked up to me, and those to whom I
had made promises would lose confidence in
me. I had believed the principle to be true
for a long time, and had heard one of the
apostles of this dispensation declare that the
Lord had given revelation telling the peo-
ple that they were to enter into that princi-
ple if they would have the highest degree
of glory. I had covenanted to serve the
Lord; I had obeyed the first principles of
Gospel, and in that I was told that I must
not stand still but must go on. On the
other hand, I remembered the words of my
father and mother. I thought of my
inability to live up to the requirements.

[Column 2]
I could find no way to be honorable to get
out of my promise. It seemed that the
more I tried to find a way to get away and
break my promise. the closer they would
cling to me. I could find fault with no-
body or nothing, but myself so I decided
to make the best of it. I told my Heaven-
ly Father that if He would give me strength
I would obey this principle and would do
the best I could trying to live up to it. So
Sunday, September 26, 1852, after the
morning meeting, we went to the Council
House, just south of where the Tabernacle
is, and there I was sealed to Brother Lay-
ton. I believed that I did right then, and I
think so till this day, for the principle is
true, but there are many hills to climb along
that road, and I have climbed a few, but am
satisfied.
	Brother Layton bought a home in the
Fifteenth Ward, and made some additions
to the building and we were very comfor-
tably situated. He had a great many cattle
that he had brought from the East, and
they were running loose over Jordan. He
thought it best to put a small house
over there and move where he could see
after the stock. So he bought logs and
put up a small room, and on the 9th of
November we started for our new home.
The snow was very deep, so deep that it
piled in great heaps in front of the axle.
There was a great thaw at that time and
when we reached the house the water was
running through it; there was no roof over
it, but we got some willows from the river
and placed on the top and then put some
dirt on top of them and soon had shelter.
	That was a very cold, hard winter. We
lost many of our fine blooded stock. One
night, I well remember, there was a very
heavy storm from the north and one of our
best mares came up to the side of the
house and cried so pitifully that my hus-
band could not bear to hear it, so he got up
and brought it in the room where we were
sleeping; and though the house was small,
the animal was put in one side, there it
stood quiet all night and its life was saved.
	On January 1, 1853, Sister Layton gave
birth to a boy. That night it began to
rain, and our roof was not water-proof so
that the water came through the roof all
over, not excepting where Sister Layton
was lying. We kept her dry as best we
could with a large umbrealla and oilcloth
coat. I had stored a few pieces of slab
away, and this came in very handy then
for fire. This and the green willows that
we had for fuel kept the fire going all
night, and we got along very well, neither
Sister Layton nor the infant took cold and
we could but acknowledge the hand of the
Lord in preserving them under such cir-
cumstances. We were happy and enjoyed
ourselves, but I sometimes think that if the
young people of today had that to go
through, what would they do?
	My father, mother and family emigrated
to Utah in the year ’53. My father did
not join the Church until he reached Utah.
In the spring the Indians were very
troublesome in many of the settlements,
and in places where it was thinly settled;
but although we were away from everybody
we never saw an Indian.
	In August we moved back to Salt Lake
to our home for the winter, and on the 8th
of August I gave birth to my first son, we
gave him the name of Hyrum John. The
next spring my husband bought a place on
Emigration Street, in the Thirteenth

[Column 3]
Ward, and we set up a butcher shop and
we began the business; we also had one on
Main Street. Having so much grease, as
we would in that business, we made a
great deal of soap and candles. We were
glad to get the candles to burn in those
days, for lamps were a rarity, and not all
could afford to buy candles. We were not
troubled with so many of the diseases as
we have now, we had no use for so many
lawyers as we have now and we did not
have all of these pleasure resorts to draw
the people away, but we lived and minded
our own business and attended to the work
in which we were engaged and had the
blessing of the Lord to depend upon. We
did very well with that business, and the
people in passing through the country to
the land of gold, as it was called, would
bring many things that were useful to us.
	In the spring of 1855 President Young
advised Brother Layton to give up the
butcher business and go into the country
and buy a farm. He obeyed counsel and
went into Tooele County and bought a
farm from Mr. Seth M. Blair. The farm
was near Grantsville and we moved to that
place for the winter. On the 18th of
January, 1856, my second child, a girl,
was born, and we called her Mary Ann. I
was very sick that winter, and came near
losing my life.
	At the April conference Brother Layton,
together with a number of others, was
called to take his family and all that he
had and go to the Carson valley, both as
missionary and to settle that part of the
country. We sold our farm to a man
named John Caley, and by the 1st of May
we were ready to start. The 10th of May
found us crossing Bear river. We arrived
at the Washa valley about July 16th
Brother Layton immediately started for
California to get the flour, as we had but
very little. The day he arrived we had
but enough to make one pan of biscuits,
and we had been very saving that it should
last till his return. It was a difficult thing
to get salt and what we did get we paid
twenty cents a pound for, while sugar was
selling for eight cents. But we had to be
very careful with everything to eat, for all
that we had was brought over the mount-
ains from California on pack mules or
horses. We kept a small store and took in
considerable money that way. But we were
left without men in camp very often and
the Indians would flock around our camp.
They would come and cook their game on
our stove and spread their blankets down
on the ground by the side of our wagons
and sleep, but there was not much sleep
for me when they were around. Brother
Layton’s father, a blind man, was with us
in camp all the time, but with that exception
we were left with our children days at a
time, but they never molested us in the
least. We attended to our prayers and had
the satisfaction of knowing that we were
remembered by our Heavenly Father. Late
in the fall Brother Layton built a large log
house, and then we were in good condition
for the winter.
		(To be continued.)


MISS ROSE LANE, of Buffalo, N. Y., who
died a short time ago, has been described as
a “mother to thousands,” from the fact
that as the “orphan agent” of Erie County
she had found homes for nearly three 
thousand children.


Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, at
second-class matter.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM. 
It would be utterly impossible even to 
attempt to do justice in words to so eminent 
a man and so true a Latter-day Saint as 
President George Q. Cannon; yet some ex-
pression we must give, some tribute we 
must pay to his memory and loving ser-
vice for humanity and the people of his 
own faith, so near and dear to him, and the 
cause for which he would willingly have 
laid down his own life; how faithfully he 
served thousands can and do bear witness.
A great and good man, a giant in intellectu-
al endowments, a pure-minded and chaste 
man, though he was reviled and persecuted 
for his belief in the principles which the 
world condemn. 
President Cannon was one of nature's 
noblemen, refined, sensitive, tender and 
true as steel, his whole life was a grand 
poem in itself, and one could truthfully 
say of him, as Shakespeare said of one of 
his heroes: 
"His life was gentle, and the elements 
So mixt in him, that nature might stand up.
And say to all the world,- This is a man." 
No doubt he inherited many of the 
sterling qualities of character, but he also 
cultivated those nobler traits and attributes
of mind and heart, that lift a man above the 
grosser elements of human nature 
bringing him nearer to the divine. To 
know President Cannon intimately was a 
sort of education in itself, and one could not 
but feel his power for good when in his 
presence. Men of the world with whom he 
was associated in business matters and his
colleagues in the Congress of the United 
States all realized and felt the great intellec-
tual power and maganimmity of this 
wonderful man among men. He was one 
of the staunchest and truest friends, not only 
to woman, but to woman's cause in the 
broad and liberal sense of emancipation and 
equal rights and privileges.
But he has gone from us to enter into a 
higher and holier state of existence. We 
shall see his face no more, nor hear his 
clear, penetrating, harmonious voice in our 
great public congregations and assemblies.
Gone to join the innumerable company of 
the redeemed upon the other side and has 
doubtless met his loved ones there, the 
wife of his youth, his little children who 
were taken away so young, his sons grown 
to manhood, who passed away when life 
seemed bright and full of promise; his 
mother whose death at sea was such a grief

[Column 2]
to him in his childhood; his father who 
died at a much earlier age than himself,
while sojourning in St. Louis, ere he had 
reached Nauvoo. Beside these dear ones 
he has met, we believe, Brigham Young,
his uncle, John Taylor, and Wilford
Woodruff, all of whom he labored with in 
the Gospel, and Joseph the Prophet, whom 
he knew and revered as the great leader of 
this dispensation, and hosts of Saints and 
brethren whome he knew and who loved 
and reverenced him.
Much as we may long for his presence,
even his family who loved him most and 
best, they cannot call him back, he has 
gone to the city John the revelator saw in 
vision.
"To the city set with jasper, having twelve founda-
tions fair,
Flashing from their jeweled splendor, every color
soft and rare. 
Twelve in number are its gateways—numbered by
the seer of old—
Every gate a pearl most lustrous—and its streets 
are paved with gold
In the midst in dazzling whiteness, lightens the 
eternal throne; 
From it flows the living water—round it gleams an 
emerald zone. Luscious fruits and balmy odors, healing leaves 
and cooling shade,
Either side the Life-tree sheddeth, by sweet storms 
of music swayed.
O, thou grand and templed city, seen by John in 
vision bright,
Glory-flooded, needing neither, sun by day nor 
moon by night.
Filled forever and forever by the shining light of
Him
Who redeemed the world and sitteth throned be-
tween the seraphim. 
Through thy lovely gates the nations, of the world
 in triumph stream,
Chanting praise above all praises--love of love 
their holy theme. 
They no more shall thirst or hunger, they no more 
with heat shall faint; 
Christ for tears shall give them gladness, blissful 
rest for sore complaint.
"Blessed they who do His bidding," cries the angel,
day and night,
They shall find abundant entrance—they shall
walk with Him in white." 
George Quayle Cannon was born in 
Liverpool, England, January 11, 1827.
His parents, George and Ann Quayle Can-
non, were natives of Peel, on the Isle of 
Man, but his ancestors came originally from 
the borders of Scotland. George Q. was 
the eldest of seven children; his sisters, 
Mary Alice and Ann, and his brothers,
Angus M. and David A. also a younger 
sister, Leonora, and half-sister, Elizabeth,
by his father's second marriage, after his 
mother's death, all survive him. He leaves 
a large family of his own, wives, children 
and grandchildren, to mourn his loss—to
them irreparable. 
President Cannon's life from his youth to 
the close was a busy one, filled with work 
grand, noble and inspiring, no matter how 
hard the way seemed, he always saw the 
light shining in darkness, it was the bright-
ness of his own happy, buoyant spirit. 
In Nauvoo Brother Cannon worked in 
the printing office of the Times and Seasons 
and Nauvoo Neighbor, there he learned the 
printing business. He was in the house-
hold of Elder John Taylor, whose wife was 
his father's sister. Under his hands 
George Q. was ordained an Elder, Febru-
ary 5, 1845, and the same day ordained a 
seventy. He traveled with the Saints in 
Winter Quarters, leaving Nauvoo at the 
time of the exodus, and crossed the plains 
in 1847 with his Uncle Taylor's company,
arriving in the valley October 3, of that 
year. In 1849 he was sent on a mission

[Column 3]
to California and endured great priva tions 
and in 1850 he was called with nine others 
to take a mission to the Sandwich Islands, 
where they landed December 12, 1850; not 
meeting with much success, most of the 
Elders decided to leave, but Brother Can-
non declared he would stay and preach to 
the natives if he had to remain alone. Four 
of the missionaries stayed with him, he 
learned the language by diligence and 
study and the gift of God, in a marvelously 
short time and was soon able to preach the 
Gospel to the natives in their own tongue.
He translated the Book of Mormon into the 
Hawaiian language and with his brethren 
was so successful that when they left the 
islands in July, 1853, there were more than 
four thousand members in the Church in 
that country. He went on another mission 
to California, May, 1855, and during that 
mission published the Western Standard 
and also the Book of Mormon in Hawaiian,
which he had previously translated. He 
returned by advice of President Young at 
the time of Johnston's army reaching this 
city, January, 1858, and was appointed 
Adjutant General in the army of defence.
He was soon after sent to Fillmore with the 
printing press and material of the Deseret 
News, which he published there from April 
to September in 1858.
On his way home from Fillmore he was 
n tified to take a mission to the Eastern 
States for which, after his arrival, he got 
ready in three quarters of an hour. He 
was away nearly two years laboring among 
editors and prominent members of Congress 
to correct misrepresentations made against 
this people. He had charge of the branches 
of the Church in the East and acted as 
emigration agent in New York. On his re- 
turn he was ordained an Apostle, August 
26, 1860. Six weeks after he was sent to 
Europe to take charge of the Millenial Star 
and the emigration business at Liverpool,
where he landed December 21, 1860, and 
established a Church printing office. He 
remained there until May 14, 1862, when 
he was called to Washington, D. C., to 
meet Captain Hooper, who had been elected 
delegate to Congress. They endeavored to 
obtain the admission of the Territory into 
the Union as a state at that time. 
When Congress adjourned Brother Can-
non returned to England, arriving July 21,
1851, where he presided over the European
mission until 1864, visiting the branches of 
the Church in Scandinavia, Germany,
Switzerland and France. After his return 
he became the private secretary of Presi-
dent Young for three years. In the winter 
of 1864 and '65 he organized and taught 
a Sunday School in the 14th ward of this 
city. 
In January, 1866, he commenced the 
publication of the Juvenile Instructor, of 
which he continued to be the editor to the 
time of his demise. In the fall of 1867 he 
took charge of the Deseret News, which 
was then weekly and semi-weekly, but on 
November 21st of that year he issued the 
first number of the daily under the title of 
the Deseret Evening News, continuing for 
several years editor and publisher, though 
traveling much through the settlements 
with the first Presidency and Apostles.
In 1871 he was sent to Washington, D.
C., with President George A. Smith, where 
he spent his time defending the people of 
Utah from the attacks of their enemies.
After his return home he was elected a 
member of the Constitutional Convention


[Column 1]
of 1872, and after the Constitution was
framed and adopted he went to Washing-
ton with Hon. Thomas Fitch and Hon.
Frank Fuller, to present the Constitution
and apply for Utah’s admission to state-
hood again.
	In August, 1872, he was elected Delegate
to succeed Hon. W. H. Hooper, and was
re-elected four successive terms, making
five in all. His course in Congress was so
irreproachable, and his wisdom and judg-
ment so admirable that he won the respect
and confidence of all with whom he came
in contact. He was highly esteemed by all
as a man of refinement and excellent abili-
ty, and he never failed to win the confi-
dence and good-will of all whom it was his
duty or privilege to associate with, however
great their station in life or in affairs of
State.
	The latter part of the life of President
Cannon is perhaps better known to our peo-
ple than the earlier occurrences, although
he has really occupied a higher position in
the Church in later years. He has been
General Superintendent of the Sunday
School Union ever since its organization in
1867, which has grown to be such an im-
portant institution in Zion. He was a mem-
ber of the General Board of Education from
its organization, April 5, 1888, and he filled
many positions of public trust beside those
of the Church, always with credit to him-
self and the cause he represented. His
life was a very busy one, no man could do
more, his capacity for work of the best
quality seemed unlimited. His books are
all perfectly written and contain exalted
truths, and it would be well for the Saints
to read or re-read them and recommend
them especially to the youth of Zion, His
magazine articles written for various period-
icals were always worthy of the man and
his subject, and though the outside world
did not agree with his religious views, yet
his literary ability was admired by the
most competent judges.
	To the saints who are living he must
seem very real, for his work and its results
are everywhere apparent, he has left behind
him indeed a shining mark that will light
the way for all time. “He is not dead, but
sleepeth” is true of President George Q.
Cannon. His memory is more than a
shadow, it is engraven on the hearts of those
who heard his wonderfully magnificent
voice, his sublime teachings, his cordial
greetings on all occasions. The youth of
Zion should strive to attain to the same ex-
cellence in all they undertake, never give up
President Cannon was a self-made man, so
far as education of his own time, he was a
student of the Bible, but he had not the
opportunities for schools and colleges that
the young men of today enjoy, and yet he
surpassed most men of his time in the ac-
quirement of learning and accomplishments.
He regretted not having had the advantages
of a classical education, but his indomitable
perservance in the pursuit of knowledge
was almost unparalleled.
	President Cannon passed away surrounded
by near and loving relatives although far
from his own home and many dear ones,
yet in a beautiful spot in the old city of
Monterey, California, commanding a fine
view of the Bay, which was pleasant to look
out upon.
	Of his illness the public were almost
daily notified by telegrams to the friends at
home, which were published in the city
papers.
	The funeral services held in the large

[Column 2]
Tabernacle were numerously attended and
the great organ pealing forth its grandly
sublime notes awakened the tenderest emo-
tions of the human heart, albeit attuned to
sadness, and yet to victorious triumph.
	The first hymn by the choir was Presi-
dent Woodruff’s favorite, “God moves in a
mysterious way.” The prayer was offered
by Apostle F. M Lyman, and a male chorus
of the best singers rendered the funeral
anthem, “Not dead, but sleepeth.”
	The speakers of the occasion were the
Apostles and First Presidency, men with
whom his life had been spent in loving ser-
vice for the Gospel, and many glowing
tributes were paid to his memory by these
great and noble men who had labored with
him and knew whereof they spoke.
	During the service Elder R. C. Easton
rendered “Sister Eliza’s” immortal invo-
cation, “O, my Father,” in a most impres-
sive style, his superb voice filling the
Tabernacle with melody. A male quartette
gave beautifully, “O, Love Divine,” and
the last musical number was Evan Stephen’s
anthem, “When the Soul is Sad and Weary
Seek Relief in Prayer.”
	The white draping festooned with heavy
white silk cord and tassels and rosettes and
bows of white satin ribbon made the place
sacred and fitting for such service over one
whose life had been consecrated to the ser-
vice of his Lord and Master.
	The floral emblems were suggestive of the
various places he had filled and the work he
had performed. The flowers were the
choicest and rarest varieties to be obtained.
	The gift of the Sunday School was a large
open book encircled with a wreath and a
tablet with the words “The Childrens’
Friend.” From the family a floral mauso-
leum with solid roof, and floor of pink and
white carnations and roses, and columns
twined with smilax and flowers, the word
“Father” embedded in the banked flowers.
	There were many other exquisite floral
offerings and the effect was beyond any
mere description on paper or canvas, and
must have been seen to be realized or appre-
ciated. The fragrance and beauty com-
bined with the exquisite taste of the ar-
rangement reminded one of the poet who
wrote,

	“Flowers preach to us if we will hear.”

	After the funeral cortege had reached the
cemetery and while the casket was being
lowered into the grave the quartette rendered
the good old hymn, “Come ye disconsolate.”
	The grave was dedicated by Apostle
Anthon H. Lund, and Bishop John R.
Winder expressed, in behalf of the family,
gratitude for all the kindness and the at-
tention shown them in their time of sorrow
and affliction. The quartette sang, “When
the Swallows Homeward Fly.” The grave
was literally embowered in flowers. Presi-
dent Cannon was buried at the side of his
wife, Elizabeth, who died in 1882, and his
two sons, Abraham and David, and
other children.

		CROSSING THE BAR.
	“Sunset and evening star, 
		And one clear call for me!
	And may there be no moaning of the bar,
		When I put out to sea.

	“But such a tide as moving seems asleep,
		Too full for sound and foam,
	When that which drew from out the bound-
			less deep,
		Turns again home. 

[Column 3]
	“Twilight and evening bell,
		And after that the dark!
	And may there be no sadness of farewell,
		When I embark.

	“For tho’ from out the bourne of Time and
			Place
		The flood may bear me far,
	I hope to meet my Pilot face to face,
		When I have crossed the bar.—TENNYSON”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We have a number of anniversary meet-
ings held in March that we are unable to
find space for at this time, and we also have
held over the minutes of the General Relief
Society Conference, but they will be pub- 
lished during the present mouth. There is
also much other matter on hand, but we
hope to use it all within a reasonable time.
	By request of Mrs. May Wright SeWall,
who represents the United States on the
International Peace Commission of Women,
it is expected the women of Utah will
arrange for meetings on Peace and Arbi-
tration on Saturday, May 18. Certainly
our sisters throughout the state are in favor
of creating a sentiment for peace. A call
will soon be issued through the local papers.
	We are sure the sisters everywhere wil
be delighted to know that Sister Zina D.
H. Young, President of the Relief Society,
has recovered from her recent severe illness,
which prostrated her for a few days, alarmed
some of her friends and prevented her at-
tending the General Conference of the Relief
Society held in April in the Assembly Hall,
in this city. We all rejoice to see her again
in our midst and trust her health and
strength may be equal to the duties and re-
sponsibilities of the honorable position she
occupies in the Church.
	On April 11, 1901, at the residence of
Mrs. Alonzo E. Hyde, in this city, a num-
ber of ladies met, by invitation of Mrs.
Hyde, in honor of the birthday of her
revered mother, who passed away recently,
and organized a society which they named
“The Daughters of the Pioneers.” We
hope to give particulars and names of
officers in the next issue of the Exponent.
Mrs. Hyde is at present in Logan, and
consequently we have not been able to get
the proper notice to publish.
	The workers in the Salt Lake Temple
and a few friends gave a party in the Bee
Hive House, April 3, President Lorenzo
Snow’s eighty-seventh birthday anniversary,
and with congratulations, music, floral
tributes and other beautiful things and
choice sentiments, spent a few hours happi-
ly in honoring this venerable leader of the
hosts of Israel. The Exponent adds its
sincere congratulations and hopes and trusts
he may live yet many years in health and
strength and fully accomplish the work as-
signed to him of the Lord.
	Mrs. L. M. Hewlings, who died at the
Cannon House, in this city, April 23, 1901,
was a very remarkable woman. Our readers
will remember her through her writing for
the Exponent, and the poem “Crumbling”
published in the last issue of the paper was
composed by her during her last illness. A
brief sketch of her life will be given later.
She was the sister of the editor, and has
written occasionally for our paper for more
than twenty years, and as she never re-
ceived any remuneration for her writings
except a copy of the paper, we feel it only
just and proper she should become better


known to our readers through some inter-
esting incidents in her life. Mrs. Hewlings
was a philanthropist in the true sense of the
word.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SIXTH WARD ANNIVERSARY.
	The third anniversary of the Sixth Ward
Relief Society, held in commemoration of
the first organization by our beloved
prophet, Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo, Ill.,
was held in the Sixth ward Assembly Hall,
March 18th, 1901, at 2 o’clock p. m., Presi-
dent West presiding, Counselors Ellen R.
West and Alice Butterworth assisting.
On the stand were Bishop James C. Wat-
son, Counselor Allen Burt, Patriarch Jesse
West, Brothers Arnold G. Giauque, James
Latham, Carl A. Ek, Thomas Green, Presi-
dent of the Y. L. M. I. A., Albert Reiser
and Organist Jane Poulton.
	Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Prayer by Bishop James C.
Watson. Singing, “How firm a founda-
tion.”
	President West felt grateful for the pres-
ence of the brethren and sisters with us on
this occasion to celebrate the anniversary of
the first organization of the Relief Society
by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Spoke of the
noble work the Relief Society was doing,
the growth of this work. Many noble
women are heart and soul in this work.
Much good had been done, the poor had
been relieved, the sick ministered to. Our
Heavenly Father blessed us in our labors.
Spoke of the importance of assisting with
our means towards the building of a Relief
Society hall, where the sisters could meet.
	Sister Hickenlooper said the first princi-
ple taught to her after embracing the Gos-
pel was obedience. This she had tried to
observe. When we are humble and will-
ing to be obedient to those in authority
over us, the Lord blesses us. Gave a brief
sketch of the first Relief Society work in
the Sixth Ward. Though they were not
properly organized, yet several sisters were
noble women endeavoring to alleviate the
sufferings of the poor and sick. She, with
Sister Robins, Sister West and many others,
were untiring in their efforts in visiting,
cheering and ministering to those in need.
	Sister Pugh felt to sustain the presiding
officers in regard to erecting a Relief Soci-
ety hall where all can meet. Prayed the
Lord to open up her way, that she might
donate her mite in assisting in this worthy
cause. “We sisters feel that it is an aim
worthy of our means and we should sustain
those over us in such a noble effort. Let
us endeavor to keep the commandments of
God better in the future than in the past.
	Sister Caroline F. Fulmer left home when
quite a girl for the Gospel and never felt to
regret so doing. Her parents came some
time afterward. Had been associated with
many noble women who were earnest work-
ers in the Relief Society, Sister Eliza R.
Snow Smith being one of them. Said,
“Her teachings have made me a better
woman, she taught me true principles.”
	Bishop James C. Watson spoke of the
kindness of Sister Hickenlooper to him dur-
ing the time of the move to Provo.
Spoke of the integrity of President West,
her faith in the servants of God and in the
administration, being raised from sickness
to health able to perform her duties. Spoke
of the indifference of some of the sisters in
attending Relief Society meetings. Said
this room should be filled today. Spoke of

[Column 2]
the progress the sisters were making. The
Prophet Joseph in organizing the Relief
Society did not realize the magnitude of
this grand work. Desired soon to have a
better hall for the brethren and sisters to
meet in. Invoked the blessing of the Lord
on all present.
	Patriarch Jesse West said one year ago
we met on a similar occasion. We breth-
ren are interested with the sisters in this
work. Spoke of the good instructions
given in this hall a short time ago by
Apostle Cowley, also of the necessity of the
organization of Y. L. M. I. A. and other
auxiliaries of the Church for the benefit of
the youth. The Lord in His wisdom in-
spired the presidency of the Church to or-
ganize these associations to inspire the
young. Spoke of the indifference of many
in living up to their privileges. The Lord
inspired the Prophet Joseph Smith to or-
ganize the Relief Society. We are all in-
terested in this grand and noble work with
them, they are ministers of peace, taking
words of comfort to the suffering, assisting
the poor. Referred to the integrity and
unity of the sisters and the progress of the
work of the Lord.
	Counselor Alexander Burt had recently
visited with them in their meeting, enjoyed
himself very much. The Spirit of the Lord
was in their midst. Was requested by
President West to speak to the sisters at
that meeting, felt well while so doing.
Spoke of the noble work they were doing,
also of the bad effects of evil speaking; the
care we should have in speaking of each
other, not try to hurt each other’s feelings.
All are not constituted alike, let us be wise
in these things. Seek for wisdom from our
Heavenly Father, that we may see aright.
	Elder Arnold Giauque spoke of the mag-
nitude of the work which had been done by
the sisters. When the angel of death enters
into a family, they are ministers of peace to
cheer and comfort the bereaved, to clothe our
dear ones who are called home in suitable
robes. “I have received of their kindness
at a time of this kind. I appreciated it
more than I can express. None are exempt
from shortcomings and weaknesses. Is the
Lord to blame for this? No. But He has
opened a way for us to retrieve them, if we
live up to the principles of the Gospel we
shall learn to overcome them. I have seen
a man’s life so changed after he had received
the Gospel in its truth and purity that he
was not like the same man, so changed
were his acts and course in life. He was
full of love for the Gospel.” Spoke of the
magnitude of this Latter-day work. Invoked 
the blessings of our Heavenly Father on the
society.
	Brother James Latham spoke of the anni-
versary of the organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
of the integrity of President West with
whom he had been acquainted over forty-
one years. In every capacity he had found
her faithful in ministering to the sick,
cheering those who were cast down; she
never faltered. Counselor Alice Butterworth
he had also known forty-seven years ago,
from her childhood. She had been highly
favored of the Lord with abundant means,
and she had extended the hand of charity
and kindness to many. Such acts of kind-
ness were not openly known. The Prophet
Joseph in organizing the Relief Society was
inspired of the Lord. He did not foresee
fully the magnitude of this work the grand
effects it has produced it does not reach

[Column 3]
alone to the several Stakes of Zion but it
has grown till it extends to the islands of
the sea, and wherever the Gospel has been
preached there also is the Relief Society,
and it will continue to grow.
	Brother Thomas Green spoke of the in-
tegrity of President West, also of the sisters
connected with the Relief Society. Did
not believe in class distinction. The Lord
blessed the poor, spoke of them in His ser-
mon. He himself came of humble birth,
this teaches us humility. We should be
ministers of peace to cheer the distressed,
alleviate the wants of the poor. Endorsed
the sentiments of the former speakers.
	Brother Carl A. Ek said he had come to
meet with the sisters in honor of the first
organization. Referred to a painful acci-
dent a brother had met with, also his ad-
verse circumstances. Spoke of the sym-
pathy and kindness of the Bishop, also the
president of the Relief Society. Spoke of
his busy life thus being deprived to a great
extent of the society of his wife and family.
Said, “The society is doing a noble work.
My wife is a teacher in the Relief Society
and feels well in the performance of her
duties.
	Sister Ek was pleased to be one with her
sisters in this society. Felt blest in per-
forming her duty and spoke of her recent
sickness.
	Sister Swenson also bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth, was blest in performing
her duties.
	Brother Albert Reiser said he was pleased
to meet to celebrate the anniversary of the
first organization of the Relief Society.
Spoke of the respect he had for these sis-
ters; also of the magnitude of their work
and the great good they were performing,
alleviating the suffering and pain of the
sick. His mother was connected with the
society, it was through her faith and pray-
ers in his behalf during a severe illness he
had, that convinced him of the truth of the
Gospel and he received a testimony of the
same. The sisters have a right to minister
to the sick, and in this they will not over-
reach their authority. Spoke of their faith
and prayers in ministering to the sick, and
the benefit and consolation he had derived
during his mother’s sickness, and after her
death they were there to cheer, comfort and
prepare and clothe her in proper robes. The
young ladies are beginning to see and real-
ize the importance of the Relief Society and
to honor the sisters in their calling.
	Bishop James C. Watson made closing
remarks. Benediction by Patriarch Jesse
West.
	The evening was spent in a social dance.
		ELIZABETH CONDIE, Sec.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Hall, Febru-
ary 9, 1901, at 2 p. m , with Counselor
Stevenson presiding.
	Opened by singing “For the strength of
the hills.” Prayer by Sister Elizabeth
Webb. Singing, “All hail the glorious
day.” Minutes of December 15, 1900, were
read and accepted
	Counselor Stevenson spoke of the sick-
ness of President M. I. Horne, that she was
just convalescing. Spoke of the sacred house
we are meeting in today and of the many
excellent meetings held here.
	Sister Mair said she felt thankful to be 
here, had been a member of the Church


twenty-five years, and was thankful for it.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said she knew
that God loved His daughters as well as
His sons, and she had never regretted that
she was a woman. This house would not
hold the women of Zion if they knew what
was good for them.
	Sister Smith bore her testimony. She
felt all should pray for those who preside
over us; said how the Lord had blessed her
with health to perform Temple work.
	Sister Hardy bore her testimony, also
Sister Julia C. Howe, who said God had
planted a love of the Gospel in her heart.
Said she had felt she could never get over
the loss of her relatives, but now she felt
that where her treasures were, there her
heart is also. Hoped we would all prove
faithful to the end.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “O Jesus, the
Giver,” assisted by the congregation.
	Sister Hannah Lapish spoke of a vision
she had received, and Sisters Hannah
Workman, Long, Gardner, Long, Wood-
ward, Martha Morris, Sister Shaw, and
several others whose names were not known
to the secretary, bore their testimonies.
	Sister Harriet Ann Badger said she felt
the Spirit of God was here, and she felt
thankful for the testimonies of so many.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said: "It is a great
privilege to meet together. Sisters, let us
set an example before our children. Do
not let us even play cards. I know a great
many Latter-day Saints entertain their
friends in card playing, I believe it a
device of the evil one to lead us away. Let
us remember every light word must be ac-
counted for.
	Counselor Stevenson thought the time
had been profitably spent. We are told out
of the books we are to be judged, so let us
not let the records be blanks. Exhorted all
to overcome their timidity and all bear their
testimonies.
	Singing, ‘‘Guide us, O Thou Great
Jehovah.” Benediction by Julia S. Woolley.
				J. S.WOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY HALL DEDICATED.
	The Provo Third Ward Relief Society
dedicated their new and beautiful hall on
Friday, March 15, 1901, it being just one
year from the time of commencement until
the dedication.
	The services were held at 2 p. m., Presi-
dent Eliza N. Taylor presiding. After
singing by the ward choir and prayer was
offered, short speeches were made by the
president of the ward society and her
counselors, some of the Stake officers, also
the presidency of the Stake. President
David John offered the dedicatory prayer,
A duet by John Johnson and Emma Knud-
sen. The Bishop of the ward, F. W. Taylor,
spoke in praise of the great work accom-
plished by the sisters and a song was sung
by James E. Daniels.
	After the closing exercises the congrega-
tion adjourned to the Assembly Hall, where
a sumptuous dinner was in waiting, about
four hundred partaking thereof. In the
evening a fine program was rendered.
This completed the day, which will long be
remembered by all.
EMILY CLAR, Sec.


IN San Francisco the authorities have
taken action against the slavery of Chinese
girls by arresting a number of the girls and
preparing to send those who have not certifi-
cates back to China.


OBITUARY.
	Again we are called to report the death of a be-
loved sister and friend, Sister Ann Methly Abel,
who died at her home in American Fork, January 
7, 1901.
	Sister Abel was born June 27, 1824, in Sheffield,
Yorkshire, England. With her husband and chil-
dren she emigrated to Utah in 1863, and settled in 
American Fork, where she continued to reside un-
til her death. She was the mother of eight chil-
dren, five of whom survive her; also twenty-two 
grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. She 
was an affectionate wife, a devoted mother and a 
good friend, always willing and ready at any 
time, day or night, to help in sickness or death, and 
by her industry setting an example worthy of emu-
lation.
	She was a faithful and energetic teacher in the 
Relief Society from its first organization until
about five years ago, when her health failed and 
she very reluctantly had to give up the work which 
had been a labor of love with her. She was in 
very deed a true Latter-day Saint, and through all 
her sickness was patient and cheerful, her faith in 
he ordinances af the Gospel never faltered.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 

	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father 
to remove our dear sister and take her to a higher 
sphere, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a faithful 
worker in the cause of truth and that we desire to 
emulate her earnest labors; and be it 
	Resolved, That we tender our sympathy to the 
bereaved husband and children and pray our 
Heavenly Father to let the comforting influences 
of His holy spirit rest upon them that they may 
realize that she has only gone before and is enjoy-
ing the rest of the faithful and will come forth to a 
glorious immortality and eternal life. And be it 
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be 
placed on our record, one sent to the bereaved 
family and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for 
publication.
	Committee in behalf of the Relief Society. 
					ELLEN D. CLARKE, 
					ELIZABETH MCCARTY. 
		ANE ANDERSON POULSEN.
	Ane Anderson Poulsen, born July 21, 1822, in 
Fastrup, Denmark. She was married to August 
Poulsen in 1830. They removed to Alborg where 
they embraced the Gospel in 1858 and endured 
much persecutien for the sake of the Gospel. Their 
home was the home of the Elders. They never 
tired of ministering to their wants. 
	Six children were born to them, of whom four 
are living, three sons and a daughter, the latter 
emigrating to Utah under the care of the Elders 
in 1867. The next year her husband and two of 
their sons emigrated to the valley of the mountains, 
where her husband labored to earn sufficient 
means to send back for his wife and their remain-
ing child. In the year 1870 they made their home 
in Alpine, Utah Co., where her husband departed 
this life in 1877.
	In the year 1884 she moved to Arizona together
with her children where she resided until the day 
of her death, December 3, 1900.
	Sister Poulsen was a faithful Latter-day Saint 
and an active member of the Relief Society of the 
Graham ward, St. Joseph Stake, and the first one 
removed by death since the society was organized 
over seventeen years ago. 
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, the Lord has called from our midst 
our beloved sister,
	Resolved, that we recognize in her death the 
loss of a worthy member and a good Latter-Saint 
worthy the respect of all.
	That we sympathize with her family in the loss 
of a kind and affectionate mother.
	That these resolutions be placed on our records, 
that a copy of the same be presented to the family
and also to the EXPONENT for publication.
					MARY E. SKINNER, 
					MARY A. PETERSON, 
					MARY J. TALLEY, 
								Committee.


[Column 1]
	    R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS. 
	SALT LAKE STAKE PRIMARY.

	Minutes of Primary conference of the
Salt Lake Stake, held in the Assembly Hall,
March 15, 1901, President Camilla C. Cobb
presiding.
[Column 2]
	Meeting opened by singing “Gladly
meeting." Prayer was offered by Master
Sterling Talmage. Singing, “I think
when I read that sweet story of old.” Roll
called, twenty-two assistants present, each
responding with sentiments in concert.
Minntes of previous conference read and
accepted.
	The following program was carried out:
	Song, “In our lovely Deseret,” by all
of the children. Song, by four little girls
of the Eleventh Ward. Recitation by
Margaret Taylor, of the Second Ward.
Organ solo, by Ethel Reynolds, of the
Twentieth Ward. Questions and answers
on the first principles of the Gospel, by
members of the Seventh Ward. Recita-
tion about Jesus, by Elsa Knott of the same
ward. Song by five little girls of the
Seventeenth Ward. Sister Amanda Done
told an interesting Thanksgiving story,
showing how happiness can be derived from
unselfishness. Another song by four little
girls of the Eleventh Ward. Recitation by
Wanda Lyon, of the Thirteenth Ward.
Song by a number of little girls of the Six-
teenth Ward.
	President Cobb said she was pleased with
the program and complimented the children
on their punctuality. Told them we would
not have Sister Morris with us very long,
as she had resigned her position as counselor
in the Stake Board, on account of ill health.
Felt to ask the Lord to bless her, said it
was by the blessing of the Lord that she
herself was able to be with us, as she had
been very sick.
	Sister L. G. Richards, of the General
Board, said she loved the children and was
pleased to be with them. Asked them to
say God bless Sister Morris, also Sister 
Cobb and Sister Felt, and prayed the Lord
would bless the children.
	Meeting closed by singing “Around the
throne of God.” Benediction by Sister
Julia C. Howe.
ELLA W. HYDE. Sec. 

		BINGHAM STAKE.

	Conference of the Relief Society of Bing-
ham Stake was held at Louisville, Febru-
ary 9, 1901, commencing at 10 a. m., Presi- 
dent E. J. Bennett presiding. Singing, “Up
awake ye  defenders of Zion.” Prayer was
offered by President Jas. E. Steele. Sing-
ing, “Arise, my soul, arise.”
	President E. J. Bennett expressed herself
as being very pleased with the attendance.
Said her mind was ever with the sisters of
this Stake, and she was constantly planning
for their welfare.
	The Relief Society of Grant ward was
reported by Sister Julia Dabel.
	President Jas. E. Steele said he found
in conversing with the Bishops of different
wards, that the Relief Society were doing a
good work and knew they were of great
importance in the wards, when they per-
form the duties assigned to them. Wished
to call the attention of the sisters to a lack
of being familiar with those who come
among us from other places. People
coming among us as strangers, feel that
they are one with us, and that we have an
interest in them. Urged the sisters to
work assiduously in this Relief Society
work and see that they get their credit for
it, for “by the books shall ye be judged.”
Spoke of the diligence of President Emma
Bennett who had traveled from Provo to
meet with the sisters in this conference,
because she had been called to do so.
	President Luna Jardine, of the Louis


ville Relief Society, reported the society as
being in a good condition. They were all
united and were laboring to relieve the
poor and to do all the duties assigned to
them.
	Counselor Elvira C. Steele read a greet-
ing from the General Board from the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Encouraged all to
press on in the work. Felt if we would
live, nearer to the Lord we would not
have so much sickness among us.
	President E. J. Bennett spoke of the
general building to be erected in Salt Lake
City. Hoped this Stake would be second
to none in donating.
	Meeting was adjourned until 2 p. m.
Singing, “Come, O Thou King of Kings.”
Benediction by Bishop A. J. Stanger.
	Meeting opened by singing “Our God we
raise to Thee.” Prayer by Bishop R. Jar-
dine. Singing, “O ye mountains high.”
	President Barrett, Willow Creek Relief
Society, reported that society in a prosper
ous condition. Sabel, Milo, Rigby, Iona,
Eagle Rock and Menan branches were re-
ported as being in a united and prosperous
condition.
	Counselor Elvira Steele felt that we had
been truly blessed in this conference. We
have many trials and obstacles to contend
with, but we must press forward and do
our duty and the Lord will bless us. Let
us attend our Relief Society meetings, if
we have to take our children with us, for
we should not waste these golden oppor-
tunities.
	Brother Benjamin Bennett, of the Eagle
Rock ward, said when we honor the priest-
hood, pay our tithing and keep the com-
mandments of God, we are happy; and
when we have sickness we can call down
the spirit of God upon us.
	President Bennett said she very much
missed Sister Emma C. Rushton, her first
counselor, who had moved to Oregon, “and
as she expects to make her home there, I
propose that we release her from her labors
in this Stake. She was honorably released
with a hearty vote of thanks. She has
labored unselfishly for the Relief Society
of this Stake. We should be as willing to
assist those in sickness and poverty as she
has been. Spoke of the duties of teachers.
Teachers should be the very best of women,
that they may have the spirit of God with
them. Go with your hearts full of love that
you may have the spirit of discernment.”
Exhorted the officers to hold their officers’
meetings. “May your members increase
and the blessings of God be upon you all.”
	President Bennett said as Sister Rushton
had been released she would like Sister E.
C. Steele as her first counselor. She was
accepted in the position by a unanimous
vote of the conference. The General Board
and Stake officers were then presented and
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Elvira C. Steele was set apart as
first counselor to President Emma J. Ben-
nett.
	Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Benediction by Elder Thomas Lee.
			ELIZABETH S. BENNETT, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column One]
R K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
much as possible for you  money.	
TRY US.

[Column 2]					
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.

		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.

		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW

		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WR[---] for any information desired.

		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.
===============================
	The Most Convenient Local Train Service
	in the State is given by the . . . . .

OREGON SHORT LINE
	RAILROAD
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . . . . .
__________________________________
Se that your tickets read via the
"SHORT LINE"
	And Get the best
__________________________________

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
__________________________________
S. W. Eccles,				D. E. Burley,
	Gen Tfc. Mgr.				G. P. & T. A.


[Column One]
CELEBRATIONS, MARCH 17, 1901.
ANNUAL DAY AT MESA.

The Relief Society of Mesa Ward, of
Maricopa Stake, held annual day exercises
on Monday, March 18,1901, at Relief
Society hall, sixty members present.
President Laura Rappleye presided. Sing-
ing, “Praise to the man. ’’Prayer by Stake
President B. R. Hakes. Singing, “We
thank Thee, O, God, for a prophet.” The
minutes of the last annual day were read.
Opening address by Stake President M.
A. Hakes; also read the poem, “Threads of
Thought.” Minutes of the first Relief
Society in 1842, read by Sister S. M.
Pomeroy. Song, Barbara Allen. Remarks
by Stake President E. R. Hakes, who spoke
of the importance of Relief Society work,
and of suffrage organization.
Refreshments were served and the after-
noon session began at 2 o’clock by singing
“O, ye mountains high.” Prayer by
Sarah M. Johnson. Singing, “Redeemer
of Israel.”
Program continued with an address of
welcome by Counselor Sarah M.. Johnson.
Recitation “Annie Laurie,” Dora Pomeroy.
Song, Dora Gilispie. Essay, “Procras-
tination,” Annie E. Fuller. Song, “Bring
Back My Loved one,” Mary Pomeroy.
Congregational singing, “O, my Father.”
Testimonies by Ida Johnson, Alice Rich-
eus, Mary Ann Horne, Melissa Babbitt.
and Etta Pomeroy. Song, May Fuller.
Adjourned by usual exercises, the fes-
tivities of the day being closed by a grand
ball in the evening, participated in by
old and young.
BELLE POMEROY, Sec. pro tem.

CANNONVIL[--] ANNIVERSARY.
Anniversary of the Relief Society of
Cannonville, Utah, held March 18, 1901.
As the 17th came on Sunday, President
Deba S. Dunning decided to hold the anni-
versary on Monday night, the 18th of
March, 1901, The meeting was opened by
singing “Come listen to a prophet’s voice.”
Prayer by Bishop James N. Anderson.
Singing, “All hail the glorious day.”
Sister Alvira A. Henderson made a few
remarks as follows; “I feel to rejoice in
the work of the Relief Society, where-
ever I have lived. I have lived here for
twenty-three years, and have helped in the
society here. Fifty-nine years ago the first
Relief Society was organized. The prophet
called on the sisters to relieve the poor.”
Recitation by Mrs. Harriet G. Clark,
“The Great Man at the Gate of Heaven.”
Then came a song by Mrs. Anna Davis and
Sister Sarah Henderson. Sister Margaret
E. Willis read a humorous composition on
early times in Utah. “A tribute to the
Sisters of the Relief Society, was read by
President Deba Dunning. A song, “The
End of the Way,” was sung by Sisters
Lydia M. Dunning and Letitia M. Spencer.
Song, “Kind Words,” by Myra Heward
and Janette Allen. Reading by Martha S.
Johnson, “Childish Wisdom.” Essay on
woman, by Laura J. Davis. Song, by

[Column Two]

Dora Fletcher and company, “The Narra-
gansett Bay.” Recitation, “The Gambler’s
Wife,” by Annie Dutton. Song, by Sisters
Elizabeth Fletcher and Harriet G. Clark,
“Gently Down the Stream of Time.” Reci-
tation, “The Beggar and His Day,” by
Lucy Henderson. Song, “Sweet Bye and
Bye,” by young girls. Recitation, “The
Soldiers Message,” by Cora Henderson.
A dialogue. “The Sewing Bee,” by Deba
S. Dunning, Harriet G. Clark, Lydia D.
Henderson, Laura Davis, Cora Henderson
Lucy Henderson, Frances Henderson and
Sarah Henderson. Singing, “Up, awake
ye defenders of Zion.” Dismissed by
Bishop’s Counselor Owen Clark.

EMILY B. SPENCER, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.                                                                                            

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
