Margaret Cummock Pickering President Amy Brown Lyman MARGARET Cummock Pickering, appointed General Secretary-Treasurer of the Relief Society October 31, 1945, is well known in both the Church and the community as an untiring, efficient, and willing worker. In Church and other humanitarian Causes, and in the promotion of civic enterprise and improvements, she has given so fully of her time and talents that it has been said of her that "she majors in volunteer service." In her new and responsible calling her best effort will be put forth to carry forward the important work and other duties thus assigned to her and to maintain high standards; and she will bring to this position a wealth of knowledge and experience which will be helpful to Relief Society women in solving their practical problems. A devoted Latter-day Saint, Sister Pickering has cheerfully accepted calls made of her by the Church, and she has performed faithfully every duty and responsibility these important calls have placed upon her. While she has served in various Church Capacities, her chief work has been in connection with the Reer of the Relief Society of the South Eighteenth W. Ard, and also of the General Secretary-Treasurer at Relief Society headquarters, Her civic and community activities have been unusually varied and extensive. Because of her wide acquaintance, her Organizing ability, and her willingness to render Service, she has been an important factor in the work of many State and local agencies. She was the first executive secretary of the Woman's Civic Center, where she helped to organize and establish this worthy and helpful institution; the first secretary of the Utah State Society For Mental Hygiene; a member of the executive committee of the Community Chest, which agency she has continuously supported; and for many years she has served as a director of Robertson Cummock who accepted the gospel message in far-away Scotland and left their home to emigrate man of ability and head of the Pickering Advertising Agency. MARGARET CUMMOCK PICKERING He is a cultured, kindly gentleman, devoted to his wife and home and always ready and willing to support her in all her work and undertakings. Sister Pickering received her  education in the public schools of Salt Lake City and the Latter-day Saints College from which she was graduated. She has also taken special courses at the Utah State Agricultural College and at the University of Utah. I first met Margaret Cummock when, as a young girl, she was employed at the general headquarters of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association as office secretary, and I was serving in the headquarters of the Relief Society as General Secretary. At that time, the general offices of the Y. M. M. I. A. Were located on the south side of the second floor of the Bishop's Building, and those of the Relief Society on the north side, with only the long hall separating them. Margaret was, for a number of years, a worker in the Era office, where she very naturally became intimately associated with us Relief Society workers across the hall, and greatly interested in our work. She was in and out of our offices as we planned the publication and launched the Relief Society Bulletin in 1914, and Thein 1915. Our group of Relief Society workers at that time included, among others, Aunt Em Wells, General President, Susa Young Gates, and Jeanette A. Hyde, editor and business manager, respectively, of TheI am sure it was during these early years of her life that Margaret learned to love, understand, and appreciate the work of the great Relief Society organization which has all through the years been so dear to her. MARGARET CUMMOCK PICKERING Margaret was fortunate in her office experience, having been assigned principally to the editorial department of the Era when she worked under the direction of that scholarly and faithful Latter-day Saint and editor, Edward H. Anderson. The work she was doing also brought her in close and frequent contact with many of the General Authorities of the Church, including President Heber J. Grant who at that time was personally supervising the financial affairs of the Era. President Grant was, therefore, a frequent caller at the Era office where he checked and examined records and reports and dictated