AFTER A WHILE Maude Hatch Benedict After a while when lessons are all learned And we no longer need this vale of tears, The dreads, the heartaches, suffered by all men Will lift like pearly dawn, to banish fears. Thrown on the velvet blackness of the scroll God's hand will be revealed to startled gaze, As stars shine brightest in the deepest blue, The truth will gleam in radiance to amaze. We then shall know how blinding griefs of ours Have seemed to pass unnoticed by his eye, The things we prayed and longed for most of all, Unanswered, unattained, we knew not why. Perhaps his wisdom keeps from us today Our soul's desire, spoken or unexpressed, But we shall come to know his plans go on, And gratefully concede he knoweth best. Life may not be God's greatest gift to man, The "after while" will prove, and we shall know The hand of death, though grim, sometimes conceals The fairest gift his mercy can bestow. We cannot tear aside the screening veil, But when life's race is run, and tired feet Are come at last to rest, we then shall know The wisdom of his ways is love complete! Drifting?Or Sailing To A Charted Course? Lella Marler Hoggan Illustrations by Dora Marler Williams RE you drifting on the sea of life without compass, oar, or rudder? Do you think that by some chance of fate your frail craft will reach a safe harbor? The experience of all the years can hold out no such hope for you. Whatever course you travel, you have no assurance of a satisfactory journey and a safe arrival at your desired destination unless you have some sort of guidance. Those going before us have charted the seas and set signal lights on the rocky coasts. They have made beaten paths through the dark forests and placed guideposts along the highway of life. For hundreds of years civilization has been patrolling the roads that men's feet must travel, in order that humanity might have a less perilous and a more comfortable journey. The high privileges and great advantages that we now enjoy were not easily won. Many of them have come to us over the altar of sacrifice. Men have literally gone through fire and blood and death to remove barriers to progress and_ to establish the light of truth. Among the unforgettable ideals that have helped to shape the course of man's destiny, are the rules that Moses brought to the Children of Israel. Graven on tablets of stone by a divine hand, they come down Page 22 the years to us, and now stand as the foundation of civil law. Another eternal document that has come to us from the past for our guidance and safety, is the Master's Sermon on the Mount. Had mankind but followed the light of this divine beacon, probably we would not have experienced the most cruel and devastating war of all time. These inspired rules of life, these fundamental truths, outline safe paths that lead to a desirable destination. Is it not prudent that we should follow them, that we should walk in the light of the torch of experience to our own betterment? The past has endowed us with priceless gifts of achievement. All of the wisdom and the beauty and the power that the centuries have accumulated has been poured into the vast reservoir of common knowledge. And the child of today has free access to this golden store. Although these blessings are free to all men, we can claim them only through our personal effort. We have to dig and delve to secure the gold that is hidden in the dark recesses of the earth. Other treasures are acquired in a similar manner. We must pay the price if we would receive the reward. We cannot drift with the tide and yet hope to reach the harbor of our dreams. If we desire to enjoy the rich heritage that life holds in store for us, we may be sure we shall have to follow a charted course to a definite goal. Obedience to accepted rules of conduct saves us from becoming human driftwood. A long time ago Confucius declared that "Personal character can only be established on fixed principles." And Aristotle asserted, "Freedom is obedience to self-formulated rules." I is true that "we can write our own price-tags."" But we cannot give ourselves double promotions unless we are able to pass the tests. The germs of truth and beauty that lie dormant within us will come to a full flowering only through study, prayer, work, and suffering. Honesty and integrity, courage and reliability, do not come by chance. Like other worth-while characteristics, they are developed through cultivation and training. We have to live the law to obtain the blessing. Our loved poet Ella Wheeler Wilcox wrote: Who sows in weakness cannot reap in strength, That which we plant we gather in at length. You can be your own worst enemy or your own best friend. Don't be wheedled into wrecking your own life. It is lack of ambition that lets today's convenience outweigh tomorrow's development. Why permit yourself to drift with the tide and be tossed about by the fitful winds of circumstances like a scrap of bleached deadwood? If you find that your impulses are carrying you downstream, let judgment grasp the oars and reverse the course of your sailing. "Make yourself responsible for yourself," urges a modern divine. We can spend our days loitering listlessly along in the lowlands of life or we can lift ourselves to the stars. In charting our course of action, let us accept the guidance that the wisdom of the years provides. Whether our journey be short or ? longer, we can make life richer, more radiant, and altogether more satisfying, if we work with a purpose toward a definite achievement. DRIFTING?OR SAILING TO A CHARTED COURSE 23 24 And be assured we are never alone in our efforts; for now, as always, "God helps those who help themselves." No matter what other guidance we accept, let us so live that we may always be able to hear "the still, small voice of the Spirit," which the Master said would guide us unto all truth. The person who holds daily communion with the Most High is sustained and directed by the great: est power in the universe.