Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HUNDREDS of thousands of girls, the world over, are returning to their homes after giving magnificent service to their countries. With eyes more widely opened to the needs of daily living for the multitudes, and hearts more receptive to the hungers of the soul, they should prove as great an asset in peace as in war. BRITAIN'S only woman cabinet minister, "wee Ellen" Wilkinson, Minister of Education, grew up in a home where the father never earned more than $16.00 per week. She acquired her education through scholarships, which, by the way, are becoming more and more available to Britain's humbly born. As a fiery Member of Parliament for Jarrow during the depression, she worked for prevention of starvation among her constituents. In 1942, during the Nazi raids, she was responsible for her country's civil defense, having supervision of more than two million paid and volunteer workers. T? 4 German woman scientist, Dr. Liza Meitner, goes much of the credit for developing the method of splitting the atom and _ releasing atomic energy. Hitler was working desperately for the discovery of this knowledge and its use by the Nazis. But Hitler drove non-Ayran Dr. Meitner out of Germany and she carried her secret with her. INEZ ROBB, writer for International News Service, was the only woman with the journalists who circled the globe on the inaugural round-the-world run of the At Transport Command. In giant they covered the 23,147 miles in six and one-fourth days. PUBLISHED fifty years ago, Fannie Farmer's The Boston Cooking School Cook Book rates seventh among all-time best-selling books in America, printings to date being 2,461,000 copies. It ls still in demand all over the world. The blind use it in a nineteen-volume Braille edition. A victim of two paralytic strokes, one at seventeen, Miss Farmer was always handicapped. She gave her last lectures in cooking from a wheel-chair. She ls known as the mother of level measurements, instead of "rounding" and "heaping." Her cook book brought her from poverty to wealth. A.M. WAINWRIGHT wrote of the nurses who faced the fearful trials of Bataan and Corregidor so unflinchingly: They had no training in pioneer hardship... - But their hearts were the same as those of the women of early America. Their names must always be hallowed when we speak of American heroes. Page 37 EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 33 JANUARY 1946 Be Not Weary In Well-Doing Two women stood talking together. The one said, "Well, she is spending enough time working for the Church, I hope it is worth it." The other declared, "I have been working in the Church for five years and now I'm going to take a rest." In speaking to his servants in September of 1831, the Lord said: Wherefore, be not weary in well-doing, for ye are laying the foundations of a great work. And out of small things proceedeth that which is great. Behold, the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind; and the willing and obedient shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days (Doc. And Cov. 64:33-34)- One of the most potent forces which a mother possesses in influencing the lives of her children to righteousness is the power of example which she sets her children by her daily living. She may not fully realize this as she lives out her crowded days, but when a beloved mother passes on to her reward, the memories of her which live on with her children and are treasured by them in the long days of separation, are the memories of the deeds of loving service she showered on her family at all times, and the innumerable acts of kindness and service she rendered those outside her own home circle. Her children recall the tedious hours she was wont to spend in making quilts, in cutting out and Page 38 preparing intricate patterns to be appliqued on the quilts on sewing day in Relief Society, and the hours of service she gave after the meeting, in finishing the quilts. They remember the times when she left her home to minister to the sick or visit with the homebound. They picture the happy afternoon socials she gave for a group of lonely sisters far from their families and homelands, and the remembrance of their smiling faces floods back to bring enrichment to the souls of her children. The picture also comes to their minds of that same mother dressed in a beautiful evening gown as she left home to enjoy an evening in the home of friends. This picture, also, provides a fond memory, but does not carry the power to move her children to better or nobler living, as do the memories of the deeds of personal kindness she extended to others. The pleasure of the one is transitory?as was the occasion to the recipient?while the recollection of. The blessings she bestowed on the less fortunate of her friends lives on in the memory, and is nourished by the heartfelt words of appreciation for their mother which are spoken to them by others for years to come. "Be not weary in well-doing," admonished the Lord. Do not labor unselfishly for others for a few months or even years and then decide that one has served long EDITORIAL enough, turning thereafter to the pursuit of one's own pleasure, and leaving to those who do not weary in well-doing future service for others. The benefits of such selfish living "shall melt away as the hoar frost melteth before the burning rays of the sun." Blessed is the child who, in later years, has an anchor to his soul and an example to follow in the remembrance of the life led by his mother ?of a mother who extended her love to draw into the warmth of her friendship the poor, the lonely, and the friendless, who freely, throughout her entire life, gave of her own talents for the upbuilding of the Church she loved beyond all else. 2 And just as sure as one renders service to others, so sure will be the rewards which will follow. "Cast thy bread upon the waters; for thou shalt find it after many days," said Ecclesiastes. "The Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind," we of this day have been told with the promise, "and the willing and obedient shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days." Certainly, to the mothers of Zion, one of the "good" things of the land of Zion for the willing and obedient will be the joy of seeing their children following their example, working in the Church, and not becoming weary in well-doing. M. C. S. Howard S McDonald inaugurated President of Brigham Young University Wednesday, November 14, 1945, Howard S. McDonald was inaugurated president of Brigham Young University. Against a background of snow-clad peaks, the academic procession marched across the upper campus and entered the stately Joseph Smith Memorial Hall for the traditional ceremony. The principal address, delivered by Dr. Edwin A. Lee, dean of the school of education of the University of California at Los Angeles, stressed the theme?"The Glory of God Is Intelligence'"?and urged the young people of today to develop spirituality and brotherhood. Elder J. Reuben Clark of the First Presidency, in giving the charge to President McDonald, emphasized the fact that spiritual values must always take precedence over secular values, for the spiritual life is based upon eternal truth. President McDonald, in accepting this charge, said that he visioned the Bigham Young University as a great institution with students from all sections of the earth coming to learn the teachings of their Church as well as to acquire knowledge in the regular academic field. Relief Society women throughout the Church are grateful for the establishment of the Brigham Young University and for the great and good men who have been called to guide its work. We are grateful that many of us and our sons and daughters have been privileged to partake of the spirituality and the vision which have characterized our Church university. President Belle S. Spafford represented the Relief Society at the inaugural ceremonies.