Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1886 Sixty Years Ago "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women of ALL Nations" In silence, and alone, I, watching, wait Something I have known is in departing, I listen for the iron tongue of Time To start the revealing requiem!?Hush! The clock, my timely monitor, strikes twelve. 'Tis the noon of night?the year is gone? Eighteen eighty-five is in eternity! ?Hannah T. King THE DEATH OF THE YEAR: We are not entirely bereft of flowers. The modest daisy still lifts its unassuming head and offers a singularly vigorous resistance to the encroachments of King Frost; an occasional dandelion puts in a half-starved appearance; a few clover blossoms even yet are warmed by the sunshine when it strikes some sequestered spot.... As the days creep on, the trees and hedges become bare.... All things tend to one common end.... Winter is coming with its sure and inevitable tread. The recurrence of the seasons to those who have the wisdom to learn, is not without profit; the return of each is a silent monitor which Infinite Goodness has set before the children of men to point a moral and so adorn the story of our lives as may fit us for the coming of that hour when we, too, shall fade as flowers?pass away unnoticed as a dry leaf in boundless forests?from among the habitations of the human race, and be hidden from memory's sight by the snows and frosts of time.?Wandering Boy. WOMAN'S INFLUENCE: We are inclined to think but few women are aware of the influence which women might wield, were they disposed to labor more earnestly in that field in which the Creator has placed them, instead of reaching out to untried fields of labor for which nature has not qualified them. We believe a large majority of the women of the present day are willing to work in that sphere of usefulness which God in his wisdom assigned to them, and, in conclusion, we will say your mission is an high and honorable one; therefore "be not weary in well-doing."?Selected. NEW YEAR THOUGHTS: As we pass from out the portals of the old year and pause upon the threshold of the new,... What a throng of busy thoughts sweep down upon the memory and imagination! The faded pictures of the past, the unfinished paintings of the present, the dim and dreamy outlines of the unattempted yet ever glorious limnings of the future.... Harvests already reaped, grain that is still growing, latent germs that lie sleeping under the surface of our lives, seeds of coming events which our busy hands are about to strew upon the fertile bosom of the future ?O. F. Whitney. WEAVERS WE Weavers we at the loom of Time, Swift are our shuttles flying Warp and woof we're weaving fast, Ever our life-task plying, In sunshine and shade, in pleasure and gloom, Weave we life's tissue on Time's busy loom. ?Selected. Page 36