Some Broader Applications of Social Ethics Dr. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, April 23, 1946 Lesson link: Moral aspects of courtship, marriage, widowhood, and other phases of family life were analyzed last time. It was shown that family stability is necessary to the building and maintaining of morals, and that morality in turn is fundamental to family stability. Selfishness was regarded as the major reason for family breakdown, the primary source of immorality in marriage; and, in contrast, love, co-operation, and helpfulness were named as the essence of family ethics. Lesson aim: To examine some of the inequalities and inhumanities existent in the world today, and to show that justice, when not violated, leads to both peace and happiness. LESSON DEPARTMENT LOOKING back over previous lessons, and remembering particularly the brotherhood principle, we can see that morality is offended whenever justice is violated. Advancements and satisfactions based upon self-interest alone are not enough when it comes to ethics; self-righteousness is no righteousness at all. Real morality is based upon love, equality, fraternity, and justice.
Need and Greed
In 1933, the middle of the great depression, America had between twelve and seventeen million workers unemployed. Several million are unemployed regularly, even in normal years. Furthermore, income varies greatly among those who are able to find work, as shown by the fact that in the 1935-36 period nearly half of America's families received yearly incomes of less than $1,000 each and the 195,000 highest income families received as much as the 13,000,000 families with lowest income. It was President Franklin D. Roosevelt who said that at least one-third of our families are "ill-housed, ill-clothed, ill-fed." During depression years the percentage of poverty goes even lower than that. In America, "the land of opportunity," the land favored with an abundance of natural resources as in no other spot on the earth, poverty and pauperism exist side by side with surplus and waste, people starve in the midst of plenty.
Greed is the explanation for much of the need in the world today. Our great maldistribution of wealth, which permits all of this suffering, is not to be explained on the basis of power and privilege more than ability and effort. It is true, of course, that individuals differ in capacities and abilities as well as in application and effort, so that it is utterly impossible to imagine any individual or level economic equality over a long stretch of time; wealth will quite naturally gravitate to those with ability and industry, and to some extent it should. Even so, any real justice tempered with Christian mercy would require that no one be permitted to go without the necessities of life; the "haves" should feel a responsibility for the "have nots." But more serious even than the widespread tendency on the part of the fortunate to refuse charities and ignore the handicapped, is the fact that economic fortune is so often related to luck, privilege, and a willingness to cheat. While we cannot expect equality so far as ability and industry are concerned, we do not even have an equality of opportunity. Wealth depends too much upon special advantage and deceit, not enough upon effort and honesty.
The profit motive in business, industry, labor groups, and some professions is apparently amoral in its nature, for it takes little heed of ethics or public welfare; expediency is the thing; profit is placed above principle. Advertising all too frequently overplays the qualities of the product in order to sell for profit. Merchandising has likewise in too many instances become a game of deceiving and tricking the public; note the technique of high-pressure salesmanship, for example; and the practice of making goods in order to mark them down again for a "sale"; and the tendency to reduce the quality of goods, jump price ceilings, and in other ways profiteer in wartime. Many big-time industrialists are still ready and willing to exploit the laborer and cheat the consumer in order to build up power and accumulate huge profits. And organized labor, on the other hand, has frequently resorted to work slowdowns, wage holdups, and other questionable devices; in its legitimate struggle for equality, labor has frequently gone rabid and extreme; its cry for justice has too often become a demand for power and special privilege. Professional ethics is probably more highly developed than business, industrial, or labor ethics, but even here is the frequent spirit of money madness. Unless the profit motive can somehow or other be tempered or oriented in the direction of social welfare in all fields of economic activity, justice will never be reached and morality will remain a thing talked about but seldom practiced.
Latter-day Saints should be appreciative of the Church Welfare Program, for its aim is that of security through both self-effort and brotherly love. Emphasis is upon helping people to help themselves rather than encouraging them to accept something for nothing. This is a high moral principle. Personal effort and individual responsibility are of primary concern, as they must always be in any true moral system. But also in the plan is the idea that mercy must go beyond mere justice; greed give way to brotherhood, and the actual needs of people be met by the individual himself if he is able to work, next by his family, and finally by the Church. By sustaining the dignity of labor this program avoids pauperization. By insisting upon moral responsibility toward both self and neighbors it builds character. Fundamentally it is a program of security through industry and mutual aid in the spirit of Christ.
Racketeering
Defined broadly, racketeering simply means to obtain money by fraud, swindle, or other immoral procedures. Sometimes it is outside the law, but often, too, it is technically within the law though beyond all bounds of ethics. The essential idea in racketeering is the circumvention of law for the sake of big money; it is the idea of extortion, or taking money with trickery or force without earning it. The law is evaded sometimes by direct defiance, as in the case of the so-called criminal; sometimes by hiring clever lawyers to find legal loopholes and technical escape valves; and sometimes by bribing public officials for the sake of protection. But always in racketeering there is the spirit of getting something for nothing; the idea that "only the foolish work."
Following are some of the leading types of rackets: (1) Organized robbery, burglary, and larceny. This is usually carried on by criminal gangs and is, of course, in defiance of the law. (2) Dishonest business dealings such as misrepresenting funds, "watering" stock, profiteering on war contracts, promoting fake enterprises, managing banks, stock exchanges, or corporations fraudulent in kind and other varieties. LESSON DEPARTMENT (3) Organized racketeering of industries. Sometimes this is spoken of as "gangster" control, actually, although this kind of criminal more often escapes the hand of the law, white-collar crime cheats the public out of far more money each year than do the more obvious types of stealing. (3) Kidnapping. This extremely depraved form of racket flourished here some ten or fifteen years ago but the Lindbergh law, which prescribes the death penalty for kidnappers, and the activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation have practically put an end to it. (4) Bootlegging and the black market. During the prohibition era bootlegging became so prevalent as to constitute a national scandal, and during World War II the black market has expanded to similar proportions. In both cases millions of people have shown themselves willing to take advantage of an artificial legal scarcity and to run against the law for the sake of personal profit. (5) Professional gambling. By playing upon people's willingness to take a chance in order to "get rich quick," and resorting to underhanded trickery, professional gamblers are able to take millions of dollars away from the American public each year. In some areas this is legal, but in most places where gambling establishments operate they do so outside the law. (6) Tribute for "protection." Organized gangs, in the larger cities particularly where they often have an "understanding" with the political machine in power, sometimes extort large sums of money from the various business establishments on the farce of "protection." Unless each establishment hands over to these gangsters the requested sum, it will find its buildings wrecked with a bomb, its goods destroyed with acid, or some other mysterious disaster happening to it?and knowing this, the 69 establishment usually ? comes through. This is one of the most vicious types of racketeering. (7) Betrayal of public office. Where public officials accept bribes, let contracts at inflated figures with the understanding that they will get a "cut" from the contractor, sell their own goods to the government at padded values, or in any other way use their office dishonestly for personal profit, they are betraying the public and deserting all claim to morality. Political Corruption But this is exactly what is happening in so many cases-Organized crime and racketeering, discussed above; would have a difficult time surviving if it were not for the "big fix" where unscrupulous politicians agree to protect criminals, of both the overall and white-collar varieties, in return for votes and money. Political machines are closely organized party organizations that are primarily interested in votes and power regardless of how these are obtained. Party "bosses" with numerous henchmen under them administer their machines in an arbitrary, dictatorial manner. Votes are bought with money and_ personal favors; public jobs are handed out to supporters of the machine regardless of qualifications, and sometimes even jobs, which carry large compensations but little or no work, are created on the books for "faithful" party members; occasionally there is illegal control at the polls and a miscounting of votes. Machine politics is corrupt at its very core for it caters to vested interests, to pressure groups, and not to the will of the people. Corrupt politics is not confined to ~~ any one political party. Blind bigoted party loyalty, with little concern for the issues or the personalities involved, is as un-democratic as it is un-American; and yet we have and have had much of it. Narrow expediency in party politics, at the sacrifice of principle, is as un-Christian as it is immoral; and yet it abounds on every hand., As said in an earlier lesson, what we need is 'more statesmen and fewer politicians?more who are courageous enough to put justice and public welfare before private profit, and fewer who are willing to fleece the public for their own good. Since much of the inefficiency and corruption that is permitted to exist in government circles is there because of an uninformed and indifferent voting public, it follows that the only solution is an enlightened and aroused citizenry. War and Peace The periodic continuation of war throughout the ages, and the tendency for modern wars to be even more total in their brutality and their destructive tendencies than earlier ones is a pretty sad reflection upon the moral progress of mankind. War is basically immoral for it leads to suffering and sorrow rather than peace and happiness. And yet war persists and grows in intensity. But though war is an evil of considerable magnitude, it is not the greatest evil in the world today. Peace is highly desirable, but peace at any price is indefensible and inconceivable. The greatest evil of mankind is injustice, and until this can be eliminated wars will be inevitable and, to some extent, justifiable. There is no point in appeasing the perpetuators of wrong and Oppression; any compromise with error and evil is unthinkable. As wrong as war is, if it is a war for justice, truth, and righteousness it has some justification. (For a justification of killing for righteous purposes see 1 Nephi, chap. 4.) Permanent peace, the goal of mankind and the capstone of moral progress, can hardly be realized without the establishment first of all of equality and justice. Unless democracy and Christianity can be felt internally and lived nationally, there 'is little hope for any world-wide or universal application of these principles. Until we are wise enough and big enough to clean up our own house there is little chance that we will ever be able to help much in the building of a better world. Real happiness, then, can never come without peace, nor peace without justice, justice without brotherhood. The key to peace and happiness in this life, or the life to come, is and will always be love, equality, and justice. Problems for Thought and Action 1. Cite figures to show the great maldistribution of wealth in this country. Are all men equal in ability, in industry or effort, in opportunity? Give reasons for your answers. How do inequalities in ability, effort, and opportunity explain the inequalities in wealth? Which of these do you think are justified? Show how the profit motive often operates in defiance of ethics, Give illustrations from the various fields of economic activity, and discuss each. Why does justice require a more equable distribution of wealth and a further development of social security? Discuss aspects of this. Why does the elimination of need depend upon the elimination of greed? 2. Define racketeering.  LESSON DEPARTMENT How or why is it permitted to exist? Discuss each of the seven types of racketeering listed in the lesson, and give original examples for each type. 3. Why is blind party loyalty un-American? Why is expediency in party politics immoral? To what extent is the voting public responsible for corrupt politics? Can the problem be solved? How? 4. Why is moder war a reflection on moral progress? Show that injustice is an even greater evil than war. Is killing ever justified? Defend your answer. Do you think the world will ever have permanent peace? If so, how will it be brought about? Discuss. 71 Selected References Standard Works: Bible: Matt. 5:9; 6:19-21; 25:31-46; Acts 20:35; Ephesians 4:28; I Timothy 6:6-12; James 3:1-18; 5:1-6. Doc. And Cov. 56:16. Books by L. D. S. Authors: Talmage, JAMES E., The Vitality of Mormonism (Boston: Gorham Press, 1919). "Worldly Gain?Eternal Loss," Pages 352-354.; Bennion, Mitton, Moral Teachings of the New Testament (Salt Lake City, Utah: Deseret Book Co., 1928), "Property," pages 175-182; "Justice and Civil Government; "Peace and War," "Conclusion," pages 198-227.