
Vol. XVIII JUNE, 1931 No. 6
EDITORIAL
President Rey L. Pratt
Surely Rey L. Pratt, who was called Home April 14, 1931, heeded the admonition, "My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways."* To his Father's service he gave his time and his wholehearted devotion.
President Pratt's service was unique and valuable. He had presided over the Mexican Mission since September, 1907, and previously had labored as a missionary among the Mexican people, whom he loved with an unsurpassed, and so far as we know, unequalled devotion. He was a thorough student of the Spanish language and of the Mexican people and all that pertained to them. To the missionaries who labored under his direction he
*Proverbs 23:26.
364 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
was a father, and all who knew him loved him. Elder Pratt understood the gospel and his testimony of its divinity was firm and steadfast. He was a fluent speaker and thrilled his hearers with the depth of his feeling, his earnestness and his sincerity. To his devoted wife, the mother of his thirteen children, he gave credit for his achievements. He felt that to her, more than to any one else, he owed what he had been able to accomplish in life. She so trained their children that love, honor and obedience were ever manifest in their home. Our hearts go out to Sister Pratt and her children in this great trial. May strength to bear it be given them and may all the children grow up worthy of their splendid parentage.
Manager Louise Y. Robison
EDITORIAL 365
Antoine Ridgeway Ivins
Antoine Ridgeway Ivins has been honored in being called to be one of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies, and to preside over the Mexican Mission. He comes to his new labors well fitted by education and experience to carry on the work. He was born in St. George, Utah, May 11, 1881, but soon afterward went to Mexico with his parents, President Anthony W. Ivins and Elizabeth Snow Ivins. He spent a number of years in Mexico and gained much of his education in that land; consequently, he knows the language and the people. Brother Ivins was graduated from the Juarez Academy, then attended for three years the School of Jurisprudence in the City of Mexico, and later studied law at Ann Arbor, Michigan. From the University of Utah he received the degree of Bachelor of Arts in Engineering. For several years he operated a 14,000-acre ranch near Enterprise, Utah, then served for two years as superintendent of the Lund Home for Boys at Centerville, Utah. For the past ten years he has been the manager of the Laie Sugar Plantation in Hawaii. Brother Ivins' wife, Vilate Romney, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Orson D. Romney, will be a great help to him in his missionary service. It is a source of great satisfaction to know that the Church has one so eminently fitted to carry on the work of Rey L. Pratt in the Mexican mission, and so well qualified to enter the quorum of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies. We feel sure that every needed blessing will be added to him and his wife in their important labors.
A Call Answered?A Life Changed
With the passing of Elder Orson F. Whitney we are reminded of the following extract taken from his volume, "Through Memory's Halls."
I had made up my mind to embrace the dramatic profession, and as the Salt Lake Theatre was not running regularly, I decided to go to New York, that Mecca of theatrical aspirants, and there begin my career. The winter past, I severed my relations with Bingham Canyon and came home, resolved upon seizing the first opportunity to carry out my ambitious design. My parents were much opposed to it, but I was determined to do something, to be somebody, and the drama seemed the only opening for me at that time.
"In the intervals of odd jobs I kept up my practice of elocution, mastered Bacon's 'Manual of Gesture,' and in every way possible strove to fit myself for the stage. The time and effort were not wasted. What was done in that direction helped to prepare me for my subsequent and real career. I was all the more capable as a preacher, for having had some experience as an actor. * * *
"Meanwhile, my mother, finding that she could not dissuade me from my purpose, said resignedly: 'Well, Orson, since you are determined to go, I shall not oppose you; and if
366 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
I can sell a piece of land (she had inherited several lots from her father's estate) I'll give you two hundred dollars to take you to New York.'
"Overjoyed, I sought earnestly to bring about the realization of that promise. But alas! There was no sale for the land. July?August?September?went by, spent in an ineffectual struggle against fate. Something was in the way?the Hand of Providence, though I did not see it then. More than once a sale seemed imminent; then some question would arise and the whole thing fall through, carrying with it my fondest hope. I believe now?what I suspected then?that my mother's prayers were largely responsible for the situation and what grew out of it.
"October came. The General Conference of the Church convened, and I was called on a mission to the United States. There was no previous notice?such was not the custom in those days. It fell like a bolt from the blue. And mark what followed! No sooner had I signified my willingness to accept the call, than my mother sold her land without any difficulty, and gave me two hundred dollars to take me?not to the City of New York to begin a dramatic career, but to the State of Pennsylvania, my first field of labor as a missionary. This was the turning point in my life, the virtual beginning of my career.
"Poorly prepared was I, in a spiritual way, for the work that lay before me. Beyond a perfunctory and irregular attendance at Sabbath
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 367
schools and other sacred gatherings, I had paid little attention to religion, and in practical Church work was entirely without experience. I think it was pride more than piety that induced me to go upon that mission. I felt that it would be a disgrace not to go, and would sadden the hearts of those who loved me and whom I loved. Therefore I sacrificed my most cherished wish, laid my darling ambition on the altar, and took the will of the Lord, instead of my own will, for a guide.
"I have never done a wiser or better thing. If there is anything in my life that looks like success, it is because I decided as I did at that time, and because I have striven ever since to act upon the same principle.
"I know now that I had a testimony, a deep conviction of the Truth; but it was latent, undeveloped, like a gold mine in the depths of the earth. Something had to occur to bring it out. That something was my mission. It bored the tunnel, sunk the shaft, and brought the precious ore to the surface."?Through Memory's Halls, by Orson F. Whitney.
Seemingly little things often change the course of a life and determine the future destiny of an individual. How much richer, fuller and more useful was his life because he turned from the lure of the stage and answered the call to the mission field. Thus did he mount the first rung on the ladder that led to the high position, an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Gratitude to President Hoover
A delegation of women representing organizations with an estimated membership of twelve millions, pledged President Hoover ardent support in his stand on prohibition. The pledge was taken to the White House together with a composite report on prohibition drawn by an "unofficial woman's national commission for law enforcement." Mrs. Henry W. Peabody, chairman of the women's national committee for law enforcement, who appointed the "commission" of twenty-two women, said the report was "based on a careful study of the Wickersham report, to which this may be added as a woman's postscript. This group represents both political parties and various sections of the country." Mrs. Peabody told the President personally that the
EDITORIAL 367
women desired to express to him their gratitude for his consistent and loyal stand for the eighteenth amendment to the constitution, and to assure him of their sympathy and support in his endeavor to enforce this great protective law. Among the authors were Mrs. Gifford Pinchot, wife of the Pennsylvania governor; Commander Evangeline Booth of the Salvation Army; Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, woman suffrage leader; Mrs. Irving Fisher, wife of the Yale economist, Mrs. Richard C. Cabot, wife of the Harvard medical professor, and Mrs. Clement L. Shaver, wife of the former chairman of the Democratic national committee.
Utah White House Conference on Child Health and Protection
On April 6 and 7, 1931, the Utah White House Conference on Child Health and Protection convened in Salt Lake City. Prominent churchmen, educators, physicians, those who have specialized in the physical, mental and moral health of children, those who have studied the handicapped, the dependent, the neglected and the delinquent child, all were out in force. Suggestions were offered and plans made as to what can be done to better the condition of the children of the State. Surely great good will result from these meetings, for thought was aroused, people were better educated as to the needs and possibilities of childhood, and we believe action will follow, looking to the better training and well being of the State's children.
To Our Mothers
The elders of the Netherlands Mission issued a booklet to their mothers that must have filled their parents' hearts with joy on Mothers' Day. It contains pictures of their mission president and his family, of their mission mother, and of the missionaries themselves; a suitable quotation from President Joseph F. Smith, poems?"We Thank Thee, O God, For Our Mothers" and "The Mother Watch," a tribute to mother by President Frank I. Kooyman, and an old Dutch proverb which says, "He that remembers God and his
368 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
mother is shielded against all evil." These formed a very unique, and we are sure, much appreciated tribute to the mothers of these fine boys who are laboring in the Netherlands Mission.
Conventions
No Relief Society Conventions will be held until late summer and fall. Material will be sent in ample time. Stakes will be notified regarding the exact dates later.
Tree Planting
At one o'clock on Arbor Day, Saturday, April 11, 1931, President Louise Y. Robison and members of her board participated with Secretary of State Milton H. Welling in the planting of a Norway maple tree* on the Capitol grounds. Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine read Lucy Larcom's poem, "Plant a Tree," and
*The Norway maple is the tree selected for the Relief Society to plant throughout the Church.
President Robison said impressively, "As I look over this beautiful valley today, I am reminded of its barren appearance when our pioneer mothers came here. In memory of the sacrifices they made for us, in appreciation for the trees they planted that we might have shade and beauty, and in order that the women who will come after us may enjoy the protection and beauty of this stately Maple?we lovingly plant this tree."

