[Vol52 | September 1965 | Page 644 | Special Feature | A Prophet in These Latter Days — Birthday Congratulations to President David | O. McKay]
A PROPHET I Birthday IN THESE [I Congratulations to LATTER DAYS fF President David 0. McKay @ Now in this time of autumn, there is rejoicing throughout the Church in many lands, and a feeling of praise and gratitude for the leadership, the direction, and the inspired counsel of President David O. McKay. In the wards and branches, in the stakes and missions, in all the borders and boundaries where the gospel message has been received, the saints, in their hearts, have a deep and abiding faith in President McKay as the prophet, seer, and revelator. For the women of the Church, the birthday of President McKay has special import and significance, for he has repeatedly counseled and advised and directed the sisters toward a full understanding of their privileges, their duties, and mission and blessings as wives and mothers and their responsibilities as members of the divinely established Relief Society. At this time, it is well to remember and to consider again the farreaching and eternal import of some of the treasured words of President McKay. The responsibility of Relief Society is to aid the Priesthood in establishing the kingdom of God, in relieving the suffering and giving succor to the poor, and in many ways to contribute to the peace and happiness of the world. In no way can these high achievements be better realized than in excelling in the art of home-building (""Home-Building As an Art,' The Relief Society Magazine, January 1936, page 10). Motherhood is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill in human life. The mother's image is the first that stamps itself on the unwritten page of the young child's mind. It is her caress that first awakens a sense of security; her kiss the first realization of affection; her sympathy and tenderness the first assurance that there is love in the world ("The Highest and Best in Woman's Realm," bid, January 1940, page 20).... The influence of Relief Society is rapidly becoming world-wide, that influence carries with it great responsibility. I emphasize this increasing power and influence of Relief Society and of womankind in general, having 644 et President David O. McKay one purpose in mind: That increased attention be given and more intensified effort put forth to maintain and preserve the dignity of motherhood... To perpetuate the truth that home is the true foundation upon which is built the structure of true, civilized Christian society ('""Woman's Influence," Jbid, December 1950, pp. 798-799). Ever keep in mind that you begin to lay the foundation of a happy home in your pre-marital lives... - Choose your mate by judgment and inspiration, as well as by physical attraction. Approach marriage with the lofty views it merits.... Happiness in the home is enhanced by having children at the fireside.... Let the spirit of reverence pervade the home.... Let husband and wife never speak in loud tones to each other. Learn the value of self-control. _.. Fasten home ties by continued companionship. Do everything to cement love for all eternity. Make accessible to children, proper literature and music. By example and precept, encourage participation in Church activity. This is fundamental in developing a true character. Church activity should be led, not directed by parents ("Ten Conditions Which Contribute to a Happy Home," Ibid, May 1953, pp. 284-285). The women of the Church acknowledge the goodness of the Lord in giving them the guidance and direction of his inspired prophet President McKay. We are grateful to President McKay for his tender, loving watchcare over the sisters of the Church 645