[Vol52 | September 1965 | Page 693 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
Relief Society Activities - aN — =: Bakersfield Stake (California) Soloists at Singing Mothers Concert April 9, 1965 Standing, left to right: Maurine Russell, stake literature class leader, and her mother, Barbara Gabbitas, stake Education Counselor, who sang a duet "Come, Mallika" from the opera "Lakme" by Delibes; Nancy Jones who played two flute selections; seated at the piano: Bonnie Newman who sang two soprano solos, "My Heart at Thy Sweet Voice," from "Samson and Delilah" by Saint-Saens, and "My Favorite Things" by Rogers. Beryl Lewis, President, Bakersfield Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Stake chorister Jean Beesley prepared a beautiful program that gave many of our talented sisters an opportunity to perform and delight an appreciative audience. This year's concert was called 'Golden Notes.' The chorus of forty-five Singing Mothers was made up of sisters from five wards in Bakersfield, and this year we had several sisters from Porterville. Patricia Boatman, stake organist, accompanied the group. The presentations were varied and ranged from the dignity of Bach to the freshness of Mancini's 'Moon River.' A series of mountain ballads contrasted with the spirited 'Skip to My Lou.' A group of nine sang a special triple trio. Our Singing Mothers have been called upon to sing at the last three quarterly conferences. They have had a concert yearly for four years. We are truly proud of them." 


 Hillside Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music For Stake Quarterly Conference March 1965 Leah C. Wood, President, Hillside Stake Relief Society, stands at the right (wearing suit); next to President Wood are her Counselors Luana G. Henderson and Elda J. Bergesen; chorister Helen F. Grover (in polka dot dress) third from the left on the first row; next to Sister Grover is Lu P. Beesley, the organist, and pianist Melva Johnson. Sister 'Wood reports: "These sisters have given willingly of their time and talents during the past year, to bring joy and inspiration to all fortunate enough to hear them. Their most recent appearances were at the stake quarterly conference in March, and at the stake Relief Society 'Fair to Remember' on May 14th. Their rendition of 'America the Beautiful' could not help but build pride and devotion for this great Nation. Then, as they changed the tempo, to sing 'Abide With Me,' hearts were truly filled with love and longing for our Savior." Las Vegas Stake (Nevada) Relief Society Presidency Presents Award For 100 Per Cent Visiting Teaching to Las Vegas Ninth Ward April 7, 1965 Left to right: Helen C. King, Work Counselor, Las Vegas Stake Relief Society; Dorothy J. Thuet, Education Counselor; Ileann W. Peterson, President; Ruth Winn, President, Las Vegas Ninth Ward Relief Society. Sister Peterson reports: "Sister Winn challenged the forty-six visiting teachers, as a special birthday gift to the stake Relief Society, to have 100 per cent visiting teaching for March 1965. The Ninth Ward has 184 families and twenty-three districts. Their visiting teacher report meeting in April was Marie Flowers' eighty-second birthday, and she was especially honored as one of the visiting teachers who had helped to attain the 100 per cent goal. She has more than forty years to her credit as a visiting teacher. The day of the visiting teacher report meeting, the entire board of the Las Vegas Stake Relief Society visited the Ninth Ward and Sister Winn presented the gift of 100 per cent visiting teaching to the stake Relief Society presidency. President Ileann Peterson acknowledged the visiting teaching record with sincere appreciation and presented to Sister Winn a beautiful cake made in the shape of an Easter rabbit, since the meeting was just before Easter." Millard Stake (Utah) Relief Society Achieves a Twenty-one Per Cent Increase in Magazine Subscriptions March 25, 1965 Ward presidents and the stake president are seated in the front row, with the Magazine representatives standing back of the executives. Left to right: Joan Stott and Roma Bennett, Meadow Ward; Shirley Probert and Edith Monroe, Scipio Ward; Virginia Wood and Lucile Stevens, Holden Ward; Dorothy Paxton and Frankie Pace, Kanosh Ward; Blanche George, President, Millard Stake Relief Society, and Leah D. Wood, stake Magazine representative; Arlene Olpin and Lila Day, Fillmore First Ward; Pauline Robinson and Dixie Williams, Flowell Ward; Edith Callister and Lorraine Handy (standing for Mildred Warner), Fillmore Second Ward; Afton Finlinson and Freda Dimmick, Fillmore Third Ward. Sister George reports: "We are very proud and happy with the effort our sisters put forth to make our stake a first-time winner in reaching the 100 per cent mark in the sale of the Magazine. This gave us a twenty-one per cent increase for 1964 over the previous year." 694 Po oe G69 SEPTEMBER 1965 Carbon Stake (Utah), Festive Foods Displayed at Leadership Meeting November 1964 Helen E. Bunnell, President, Carbon Stake Relief Society, reports: "An outstanding display of 'Festive Foods' was shown at the November 1964 leadership meeting. Under the direction of Theresa Frandsen, work meeting leader, and Eloise World, Work Counselor, each ward in the stake prepared an exhibit showing how creative artistry in food preparation and display can highlight any holiday occasion. "Each display was original and beautiful, the result of many hours of planning and preparation. Some wards furnished recipes with the food displayed on their tables, and others offered samples of the 'goodies.' "This was a most delightful and worthwhile occasion, an opinion concurred in by the sisters present and also the members of the Priesthood who were invited in to see and sample the exhibits, following their meeting in the same building." The display represented by the picture was arranged on a round table covered with a lovely rose-colored cloth, fringed in white. A graceful bough and fern leaves, sprayed in white, made an attractive centerpiece. The foods displayed were wrapped in cellophane and tied with ribbon so that they made an appetizing display. East Phoenix Stake (Arizona), Fifth, Eleventh, and Paradise Valley Wards Combined Evening Session Relief Society Assembled for Work Meeting April 1965 Standing back of the sisters from the Phoenix Fifth Ward, Eleventh Ward, and Paradise Valley Ward evening session of Relief Society, are leaders of Phoenix Eleventh Ward Relief Society (the "hostess" ward for this meeting), left to right: Second Counselor Edna Young; President Lucille Carruth; First Counselor Marjorie Gardner; Secretary-Treasurer Elsie Lamz; work meeting leader Marian Free; Lois L. Tanner, President, East Phoenix Stake Relief Society. Sister Tanner reports: "Realizing that over one-third of the women of our stake are employed outside their homes, Stake President Glenn A. Jones sensed that these sisters, too, needed the strengthening influence and blessings of Relief Society. Our stake now has three evening session Relief Societies, each one in a multiple situation being administered according to the procedure outlined by the General Board. Through this program, in a situation where multiple wards in one meeting house make it necessary to combine the evening session, we are able to see the 'extending' of Relief Society, and we have found by consistently observing evening session Relief Societies, in addition to separate daytime sessions, that there are certain important ingredients necessary for their success. Probably most vital of all is that the plan must be carried out under the direction of the Priesthood. Another necessity is that there be enthusiastic, devoted ward presidencies and class leaders—women who recognize that their callings include all of the sisters of the wards. Phoenix Eleventh Ward evening session Relief Society brought to their sisters a highly successful 'plastic grape' project, represented in the picture." 696 < eee Ys >; 


 St. George Stake (Utah), St. George Eighth Ward Relief Society Presents '"'Old Country Store' at Birthday Observance March 1965 Standing on the platform at the left (with notebook and pencil): Helen Douglas; standing in front at the display table, left to right: Loa Brown, Work Counselor; Wanda Truman, President; Birdie Cooper, Education Counselor. The gentlemen in the framework of the store represent the storekeeper and a customer. Violet Esplin, President, St. George Stake Relief Society, reports: "In March the Eighth Ward Relief Society sponsored an 'Old Country Store and Dime-a-Dip Dinner,' celebrating their birthday. Helen Douglas, chairman of the project, with many co-workers, did an outstanding work in creating the atmosphere of the pioneer era, with costumes, music, and interesting antique articles on display. An interesting day was spent by ward members, with entertainment provided and dinner served. Some $600 was realized from the project." North Carbon Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention April 22, 1965 Especially honored at the convention were: Sariah Lewis, Castle Gate Ward, fifty years of consecutive service: Olive Nelson (in polka dot dress), Price Third Ward, twenty-four years of 100 per cent service; Mary Duke, Spring Glen Ward, twenty-four years of 100 per cent service. Myrna Broschinsky, President, North Carbon Stake Relief Society, stands at the right (in white blouse); former president Edna Broadbent stands at the right (in black dress). Sister Broschinsky reports that the Castle Gate Ward was especially honored for eight years of 100 per cent visiting teaching, and preceding this, they achieved a thirty-six year 100 per cent record, with only one year missed. The Castle Gate Ward was given a Relief Society plate to hang in their Relief Society room. The presentation "Beyond Each Door," was very much enjoyed, and the Price Second Ward Singing Mothers sang "Come, Ye Blessed" and "The Bridge Builder." All the visiting teachers present were given corsages and were thanked for their many years of service. Roosevelt Stake (Utah), Roosevelt Second Ward Honors Visiting Teachers at Anniversary Party March 16, 1965 Front row, left to right: Mary Woodward, thirty-nine years; Marian Shields, forty years; Alice Luvlin, forty-eight years. Back row, left to right: Milinda Marchant, forty-five years; Dora Freston, thirty-five years; Lila Nickell, thirty-six years. Helen C. Larson, President, Roosevelt Stake Relief Society, reports: "These six sisters were given special recognition at the anniversary party. Fach one related outstanding and cherished experiences she had had during her years of service. Modes of travel were especially noted — team and wagon, horse and buggy, bobsled, and horseback in the days before automobiles became popular." 698 SFNFRAL ST/ (. NERA!