[Vol52 | September 1965 | Page 646 | Special Feature | Repentance Henry | D. Taylor]
[Repentance Henry D. Taylor]
Principle of repentance SEPTEMBER 1965 Running like a golden thread through the messages of the prophets comes the admonition, "Repent ye." And, with the restoration of the gospel, the voice of the Lord again is heard loud and clear: "Repent and be baptized."" Thomas Carlyle declared: "Of all the acts of man, repentance is the most divine." When the heavenly light of the gospel message touches the heart of man, and he develops faith in an eternal Heavenly Father and his Son Jesus Christ, he gains a desire to forsake forbidden paths and abandon evil ways, and changes his way of life. From an anguished soul he cries out: "O God! Have mercy upon me a sinner." This is repentance, that great principle of the gospel that can and does change men. It makes bad men good, and good men better. It is really a principle of progress encouraging man ever to do his best. I In this process of growth or development there are certain generally accepted steps necessary to produce a reformation in one's life. First, must come an awareness of wrongdoing, bringing a feeling of genuine remorse and sorrow. Then comes action, with the forsaking or abandoning of that which is wrong. Another important step is a confessing of sins of whatever character they may be, slight or grievous. The Lord has placed among us the bishop, as father of the ward, and to him one who has repented and is seeking forgiveness should go. The Lord has stressed the importance of this procedure in these words: "Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, re- 648 member them no more." Then comes the final test: "By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins—behold, he will confess them and forsake them" (D&C 58:42-43). A repentant person will also make restitution, where it is possible to do so. And, finally, he will show his sincerity by sinning no more, but, instead, will render obedience to the commandments of our Heavenly Father. The Savior taught that if we expect the Lord to forgive us of our errors, we must be willing to forgive others. This encourages repentance, the prerequisite of forgiveness. As he taught his disciples how to pray, he implored: "And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors" (Matthew 6:12). And he further said: "But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses" (Matthew 6:15).. In our generation the Lord has said to the people: "Wherefore, I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another; for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth > in him the greater sin" (D&C 64:9). What is the greater sin? It is the refusal t6 acknowledge and exercise the spirit of repentance. The Savior taught a beautiful lesson in forgiveness when a woman was brought before him who had been taken in sin. He faced her accusers with the challenge: "He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her' (John 8:7). He wrote in the sand, then raising his head he said: "Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee? "She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more" (John 8:11). This is a touching lesson in tolerance and forgiveness. But remember that forgiveness cannot be awarded unless preceded by true repentance. It must be earned. Forgiveness is a_ continuing obligation and not a one-time occurrence. In answer to Peter's question, "Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Till seven times?" The Master said: "I say not unto thee, Until seven times: but, Until seventy times seven" (Matthew 18:21-22). In this generation the Lord has again emphasized the need for a person to forgive often. In 1833, he gave this message to the saints through their Prophet: And again, verily I say unto you, if after thine enemy has come upon thee the first time, he repent and come unto thee praying thy forgiveness, thou shalt forgive him, and shalt hold it no more as a testimony against thine enemy— And so on unto the second and third time; and as oft as thine enemy repenteth of the trespass wherewith he has trespassed against thee, thou shalt forgive him, until seventy times seven (D&C 98:39-40). The importance of the relationship between repentance and forgiveness is clearly shown in this revelation. Without repentance there is no basis for forgiveness, yet when one manifests true repentance, it becomes the duty of all concerned truly to forgive. The Lord has made it clear that we should forgive with all our hearts. This means wholehearted forgiveness with no reservations and not just a token or partial REPENTANCE forgiveness. The spirit of repentance must be in the heart of the one forgiving as well as, in the heart of the one to be forgiven. There is an impressive story told of wholehearted forgiveness as related to repentance. A man who was traveling in a railroad coach noticed that the young man seated next to him seemed to be very much depressed. Finally, the young man, in the course of a conversation, stated that he was a convict recently released from prison, and that his family had not visited him, nor had they written often. He had hoped that the reason they had not visited him was because they were too poor to travel, and perhaps they had not written because of their lack of education. However, he had written and asked them to put up a signal for him, so that when the train passed the farm, he would know whether or not he had been forgiven and would be welcomed home again. The sign was designated as a white ribbon to be placed in a large apple tree near the railroad tracks. As the train approached the area of the family farm, the young man became very anxious and apprehensive. Then he saw the apple tree. His eyes became bright with sudden tears. Not one—but the whole tree was white with ribbons. Blessed is he who has it in his heart to forgive the repentant soul even before forgiveness is requested. But sad it is for one who is unwilling to repent. While the Lord repeatedly has _ given assurance of his willingness to forgive those who repent, he has warned that insincerity and 


 the giving of lip service only will cancel all blessings earned and bring about sore judgments. He has counseled the repentant sinner as follows: I say unto you, I, the Lord, will not lay any sin to your charge: go your ways and sin no more; but unto that soul who sinneth shall the former sins return, saith the Lord your God (D&C 82: Ay In this connection it may be stressed that the principle of repentance is often associated with remorse, sorrow, regret or sadness for wrongdoing. But it is possible to avoid the heartache and sorrow that come from transgression by constantly exercising repentance in our hearts. The Jews used to mete out punishment for acts committed. The Savior taught that we should control our thoughts and impulses—factors that impel actions. He once said: "... Whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart" (Matthew 5:28). If thoughts and impulses are controlled, evil acts will never occur, hence never require repentance. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., once observed: 'The transgressions we do not begin, we will never have to stop." This statement offers us stimulation to refrain from evil-doing. Yet, since we are finite, mortal, and imperfect, we know we will make some mistakes that will require repentance. Should we not be grateful to the Lord that he has established that great principle that helps us to reinstate and reestablish ourselves with him and our fellow men?' What satisfaction comes to him who realizes that victory, through repentance, has attended his conquest of evil! And what joy fills his heart and soul when the blessing of forgiveness is granted him. Therefore, let us not procrastinate the time of our repentance, for by it we prepare ourselves to meet God as Alma says so well: For behold, this life is the time for men to prepare to meet God. Therefore, I beseech of you that ye do not procrastinate the day of your repentance until the end. Ye cannot say, when ye are brought to that awful crisis, that I will repent, that I will return to my God. Nay, ye cannot say this.... For behold, if ye have procrastinated the day of your repentance even until death, behold, ye have become subjected to the spirit of the devil, and he doth seal you his... (Alma 34:32-35).