[Vol52 | September 1965 | Page 676 | Home | Christmas | Home Tour]
Reward B® On December 4, 1964, many hundreds of hours were climaxed by a decorated Christmas home tour, during which 700 women toured five Latterday Saint homes. Early in 1964, Whitney Ward Relief Society, under the direction of Joyce Lund, had the idea of selecting five homes, decorating each with a different holiday theme, and inviting the public to see the homes. Behind the tour idea was the purpose of exhibiting and selling the year's work in handicraft —in other words, a dressed up showcase for the annual bazaar. Realizing that this was a large undertaking for one Relief Society, nearby Arden Ward, with Uarda Crockett as President, was asked to join in the project. EMR RR KK HK HY Cristinas Home tour Whitney and Arden Wards, American River Stake, California Lois S. Fife, President, American River Stake Relief Society KM MO OO OH Teer ee ee ereeeee eee eens: He MMM MH MH HM HH YH HF Robert Larson Home, Arden Ward Theme — Formal Christmas Dinner An arrangement by the door, consisting of a styrofoam tree, with the base wired to a rattan basket covered with artificial greens, red satin, bells, pine cones, and beads. Articles sold in this home were dish towels, pillow cases, sweaters, aprons, and other sewed articles. Ar er _ ste —eugtee Se H. Holling Lowe Home, Arden Ward Theme — "Deck the Halls" This is a very modern home, and so the decorations were modern. The tree above the fireplace and the ornaments hanging from the stairways are fashioned in shapes of Christmas ornaments, cut from cardboard and covered on both sides with burlap in pastel colors to complement the furnishings of the home. Designs on the ornaments were constructed of assorted sequins, silver and gold sprayed toothpicks, doilies, jewels, rickrack, beads, braid, felt, gold and silver seals, and ribbon. Table displays handmade items for sale. Ronald Andrew Home, Whitney Ward Theme — Old-Fashioned Children's Party To bring out the children's party idea, the drummer boy motif was represented, beginning at the entry to the home. The drummer boy in the picture is made of plywood and boughs. Accordingly, three homes in Whitney Ward and two in Arden Ward were featured. White tree markers were used on the lawns of the five homes for identification. Tickets were sold at $1 each. Over 1500 handmade bazaar items were on display. Each ward had a coded ticket and received the money from the sale of its own items, as well as the money from its own ticket sales. Mutual expenses were shared. Local newspapers were most cooperative, and over a dozen pictures and stories were used. Reactions of the women making the tour were highly enthusiastic and full of praise. More important, however, was the fact that each ward noticed an increase in attendance and participation. Inactive women and working mothers called up and volunteered to make articles. Each home was decorated in accordance with a particular theme and in keeping with the decor itself. The decorations were also sold, to be picked up after the completion of the home tour. Because one of the purposes of Relief Society is to help make our homes more attractive, an "idea"? Sheet was distributed to guests, telling how to make the decorations. 678 Tablecloth fashioned to resemble a drum. Soldier favors made from waxed paper tubes. The _ table, later, was set with red, white, and blue cups and plates, with streamers running from the soldiers to the ball above. The ball is made of chicken wire, covered with boughs and decorated with twinkling lights and toy items. Natural green tree decorated with red_ velvet bows and_ candy canes. Five matching handmade stockings hang above the fireplace. The train (to hold small packages) is made from cardboard cartons of various sizes and shapes, covered with Christmas wrappings... Woth wee? Fhod J Vern Swanson Home, Whitney Ward Theme — Christmas Delicacies Christmas baked _ goods were sold in the family room of this home. Highlighting the theme was an old-fashioned cookie tree. Notice the star on top and Santa in the center. The mantel in the living room carried out a religious scene of Mary and Jesus cut in paper sculpture, with heads in gold foil, mounted on turquoise velvet, and surrounded by a lovely white angel's hair wreath, pink balls, small pink flowers, and_ gold leaves. Boughs and twinkling lights completed the arrangement. Cliff Ekstrom Home, Whitney Ward Theme — A Christmas Wedding The tree in the living room represented a bride's tree, with ornaments made of plastic doilies cut in half and sewed into cone shapes, accented by gold doves and balls. The tree has a satin skirt with velvet bows. Gift items — bags, dolls, toys, and colorful decorative articles for the home.
