[Vol52 | September 1965 | Page 706 | Home | Visiting Teacher Message "See That Ye Love One Another . . . ." Christine | H. Robinson]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 67 — ''See That Ye Love One Another; Cease to Be Covetous; Learn to Impart One to Another As the Gospel Requires" (D&C 88:123). For First Meeting, December 1965 Objective: To show that love is the most important ingredient of an abundant life. The charge we have been given to love one another is, without doubt, one of the greatest of the Lord's commandments. He him- 706 self described it as the second great commandment only superseded by the charge to love the Lord. We all remember the incident described in the scriptures when the lawyer of the Pharisees asked Jesus the question, tempting him, saying, ''Master, which is the great commandment in the law?" Jesus answered, '""Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (Matt. 22:37-39). Why is this the greatest of all commandments? Why do all the laws and the prophets hang on this commandment? Why did Jesus say, "A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you'? (John 13:34). The obvious answer to these questions is that true love fulfills all other commandments. A person who really loves the Lord would not think of taking his name in vain nor of having any other gods before him. If one truly loves another, he would not steal from him and, certainly, not covet what he has. He would be, moreover, sympathetic, _ understanding, kind, generous,. Cour-. Teous, unselfish, of good temper and sincere. For, as the apostle Paul wrote: "Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth 'not;. Charity vaunteth not itself, ' is not puffed up, Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not 'easily provoked, thinketh no evil" (I Cor. 13:4-5). In addition, through true love, all of us would "impart. One to another as the gospel requires." Paul classifies love as_ the greatest of all influences. After describing the gifts of the spirit, LESSON DEPARTMENT and the power of faith, and contrasting charity (love) with eloquence, prophecy and all knowledge, he says that charity is greater than all of these. (I Cor. 13:1-3.) How can we learn to keep this commandment to love one another? In answer to this question, someone has_ remarked, "You learn to speak by speaking, to study by studying, to run by running, and just so, you learn to love by loving." If any of us should find it difficult to develop and express our love for someone else, we might begin by thinking about all of the good qualities the person possesses and practice these same virtues in our association with him or her. As the Prophet Joseph Smith once said, "It is a time-honored adage that love begets love. Let us pour forth love —show forth our kindness unto all mankind, and the Lord _ will reward us with everlasting increase; cast our bread upon the waters and we shall receive it after many days, increased to a hundredfold" (DHC V:517). When one truly loves he gets love in return; moreover he builds, strengthens, purifies, and ennobles his own character and motivates similar attributes in the person loved. This thought was beautifully expressed in a poem entitled "Love.". I love you, Not only for what you are, But for what I am When I am with you. I love you, Not only for what You have made of yourself, But for what. You are making of me. 


 I love you, health and happiness. It is the For the part of me essence of faith, hope, and charThat you bring out + And for drawing out HaSe-. D, Into the light Love is the greatest thing in All the beautiful belongings the world. Most important, it is That no one else had looked readily available to each of us. Quite far enough to find. All we need to do is to reach out I love you because you and practice it. Are helping me to make Let us strive constantly to Of the lumber of my life "love one another; cease to be pnt a —: covetous; learn to impart one to ut a temple,. " totic oi another as the gospel requires. Of my every day Suggested cross references for the Not a reproach mothers in the home to the Family But a song Home Evening Manual: Lesson 18— (Author unknown) "Jesus Taught Us to Love Our Father in Heaven," page 138; Lesson 19 —. "Jesus Taught Us to Love As He If we truly wish an abundant Loves," page 147; Lesson 20 — "Jesus life, we must fill it abundantly Taught Us to Love. One Another," with love. Love is the secret of page 158.