[WomansExponent | Vol33 | 1904 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH, JUNE, 1904 | Author: Unknown]

	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH, JUNE, 1904


[Column 1]
THIRTY-THIRD VOLUME.
	This number of the paper opens the 
thirty-third year of the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT, and one cannot help feeling there is 
some prestige attached to a woman’s paper
that has stood so long for the best princi-
ples of right and righteousness. For the 
work of women along all lines that are 
really uplifting, no one can deny, if careful
investigation is made of what the paper ad-
vocates, that this is true.
	The women correspondents who contrib-
ed largely and often to its contents in the 
earlier volumes have many of them passed 
behind the veil, and some have perhaps 
grown weary of writing. In mentioning
the names who did much to make a success 
of the undertaking we must of course pay
the first tribute to Louisa L. Greene Rich-
ards (then Miss Greene) the first editor;
she is still prominent in literary work,
but more for the children in the Juvenile 
Instructor, and seems especially adapted to 
that line of work, which so few men, or 
women are qualified for.
	Our beloved poet, Eliza R. Snow, comes
next in this case How we all miss her 
brave, inspiring words! We can never be 
too grateful for her help in literary and or-
ganized work for women.
	Hannah T. King, every one will recall 
her prose as well as poetry. Mary Ellen
Kimball, who wrote such sweet and humble
testimonies of the Gospel and the Book of 
Mormon. Wilmirth East, who stood so 
strongly for woman’s enfranchisement, and 
Mary Ann Pratt, who reasoned log-
ically on principles of the Gospel, and our 
own Emily H. Woodmansee, who gave us 
so much real, sound doctrine in her origin-
al poems, and who still lives, though we
see and hear very little of her through the 
EXPONENT; now and then she wakes up to 
the occasion.
	Augusta J. Crocheron, who has written
volumes of poetry and prose. We are often
asked, “What has become of her?’’ She
too must have grown weary, though she 
has done such good work in the past and 
so much of it.
	There was one called "Hope," she is 
still living somewhere in Mexico, laboring 
hard in the Gospel field, we are told. She 
must be still in the prime of life and some-
time we may hear from her again.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp occasionally contri-
butes yet, and we are always glad to hear
from her, and Lydia D. Alder has done

[Column 2]
much towards helping the paper along—
she is now in Germany and might give us
some spicy "write ups" of the Quinquen-
nial.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt, who was once on 
our list of contributors, seems to have for-
gotten all about it in her busy life for hu-
manity.
	Annie Wells Cannon, with her large
family of little folks and many household
cares, finds time to give an occasional story 
or poem at Christmas time, and now that 
she is doing double duty in other ways 
with the Pioneer Stake of Zion, we can
hardly expect very much from her, al-
though the more one does the greater ca-
pacity one has for doing
	We are all busy women in this Church,
but we must necessarily do a great deal of 
thinking, and ought to give expression to 
the best thoughts we have for the benefit of
others who need it, or who may profit by it 
in days to come, for what “is written re-
mains,” and is on record.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT is preserved,
and it is precious to those who have an inter-
est in woman's work. President Young was 
anxious the sisters should not only take
the paper, but take care of it, for ‘it would
be,” he said, the “record of their lives and
work,’’.and this is true, and all who ex-
amine its pages know it contains much
useful information on many subjects and 
would help the young mothers in their 
homes, if they would read it with under-
standing hearts. It certainly ought not to
lack for support to make it more regular 
and better worthy of the appreciation it de-
serves; if the sisters could only realize its 
importance they would not neglect to speak
of it in their meetings, and urge its main-
tenance.


[Column 1]
