[WomansExponent | Vol33 | 1904 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: A Decade of Service | Author: Unknown]

A DECADE OF SERVICE.
	Everybody knows the name of Lucy
Stone; throughout the length and breadth
of this land, and even lands afar off, her
name has become a household word be-
cause of her great work for woman and
for humanity. Her daughter, Miss Alice
Stone Blackwell, has followed in her moth-
er’s footsteps and with the larger oppor-
tunity afforded woman now a-days, may
even accomplish greater things.
	At Fanueil Hall, Boston, on May 30, a
banquet was given by the Armenians in
honor of Miss Blackwell, because of the
loving service she had rendered to that
oppressed people for ten years. She was
presented on this occasion with a beauti-
ful life-sized portrait of herself, painted
by an Armenian artist. The portrait was
covered with American and Armenian
flags, and placed in the center of the dec
orated platform of the hall. About two
hundred Armenians and a sprinkling of
Americans sat down to an excellent supper
enlivened by music.” Archbishop Hovsef
Seradjian gave the “grace” at table. Two
little Armenian children unveiled the por-
trait after the banquet, and the audience
applauded warmly. The Archbishop read
a document in Armenian which was trans-
lated by Rev. Dr. Theodore Isaac, and set
forth in glowing terms the indefatigable
labors and sympathy of Miss Blackwell
during the days of dire suffering and afflic-
tion that came upon that persecuted race.
It is quite impossible to tell what this
young woman has done, but in the study
of their literature she has enriched her

[Column 2]
own fertile mind and brain and enlightened
the world on their question. After learn-
ing the language Miss Blackwell translated
into English verse sixty Armenian poems.
These represent a variety of authors, and
she has receiv d many congratulatory
news notices from the best papers in the
United States. Frances Willard said: “These
poems reveal as by a search-light the deep-
est qualities of the Armenian character.
They show forth an ingrained heroism and
an ardent aspiration worthy of the martyr
people of this so-called Christian century.
No generous man or woman can read them
without instinctively desiring to send help
to a people capable of thoughts so lofty
and sentiments so tender.”
	It was a fitting time to choose for such a
commemoration—and Miss Blackwell in
her response to the address made in the
presentation said: “Decoration Day which
we are keeping all over the country, began
forty years ago in memory and sorrow over
the dead  *  *  *  We meet today under
sorrowful circumstances We had all our
hearts wrung yesterday by reading of the
slaughter of the inhabitants of forty-three
Armenian villages. It does not seem like
a time for feasting or rejoicing, but rather
for all of us to be sad.” *   *
	The toastmaster of the occasion in intro-
ducing the next speaker, said: We have
no king in this country, but we have a
queen and she is with us tonight—Mrs.
Julia Ward Howe”
	Mrs. Howe, in opening her address, said:
“I am almost as much overpowered as Miss
Blackwell, who said that she might have to
hide under the table. If I were young and
active, I think I shouid myself execute
such a manoeuvre.”
	Mrs. Howe was followed by Mrs. Mary A.
Livermore, who had driven from Melrose,
eight miles in the rain to be present.
	Mrs. Howe is eighty-five years of age,
Mrs. Livermore eighty-four. Both these
women had done very much for the Ar-
menian cause and related many experi-
ences.
	The other speakers were Isabel C Bar-
rows, William Loyd Garrison, Henry B.
Blackwell and Prof. Wm G. Ward. Prof.
Ward spoke of the American battleships
then in the Mediterranean and urged that
petitions be sent to Secretary John Hay,
asking him to have these ships used to
overcome the Sultan and in connection
with other powers to put an end to the Ar-
menian atrocities.”
	The entire proceedings were full of inter-
est, music, poetry and song, all significant
of gratitude
	A flashlight photograph was taken at 
the table—the Archbishop at the head,
Mrs. Howe next, Mrs. Livermore close by.
The Archbishop and Dr. Isaac, in the dark,
flowing robes of the Armenian clergy, with
“ecclesiastical jewels on their breasts,”
but were still more adorned by their mag-
nificient beards worn after the fashion of
the Eastern lands.


