GUIDE LESSONS. 295 "but where God and Christ dwell they cannot come, worlds without end." By her fiery baptism, earth will be consumed; her mortal elements will melt with fervent heat, and the purified remains, immortal and in a state of resurrection, will be converted into a celestial sphere, a glorified abode for the righteous. ? From Gospel Themes. Genealogy. Third Week. Lesson III ? Numbering. Numbering names, in preparing genealogical records, is useful as a guide to relationships, and helps to locate the name when taken out on baptismal sheets. Names are numbered consecutively. That is, the first ancestor known would be numbered 1, his wife would be 2, his children, 3, 4, 5, 6, etc. His grandchildren would carry the numbers down, just as far as might be needed. There arises, however, a difficulty, if a child, who was number 3, say, marries, his name must be repeated on the record. For he must appear as the child of his father, then as the father of his children. Thus: 1. John Young 2. Mary Smith CHILDREN X 3. William 4. Mary 5. James 6. Susan 3. William 7. Jane Brown. When William is first numbered as 3, a cross is written by the number to indicate that William appears again as the head of a family. The second time William appears he is given his original number, with a bar above and below, in the pencil note book, and in red ink when the number is repeated in the permanent record. William's wife Jane is numbered 7, as that is the consecutive number, following on down. The Lesson Book contains full instructions on this point. Let the class prepare three generations of their own family names and number them. We suggest that the genealogical committees devote the summer recess months to going about from house to house, instructing the Saints how to prepare records, beginning with the living persons and gradually working back to the ancestors. We have three 
 sets of blanks which can be purchased, ten cents a dozen, for this purpose, and to aid the students in the genealogical classes. These blanks are issued by the Genealogical Society of Utah, and are the standard forms which we recommend. One is for the living records, the other for general purposes. Home Ethics and Art. ETHICS. Lesson IV ? The Golden Rule. Much needless sorrow and heartache in this world are bred through unkind words or thoughtless speech. At the very best, life is none too easy for most of us mortals. The infant enters this world with a cry; and sorrow and anguish to a certain extent seem to be the portion of mankind. Without doubt, it is part of the great plan for our discipline and development. Bodies, in acquiring their full stature, suffer from growing pains. For the mind to become properly developed, the student must spend many weary hours, and practice great self-denial. To attain spiritual perfection, we must struggle with and overcome the evil tendencies of human nature, restrain the appetites, discipline the body and the mind, and above all things, by first controlling thoughts, learn to control the tongue. "As a man thinketh, so is he," and we cannot speak the thing we do not think or have not thought. Thought is the main spring of action, and thoughts that are good or kind, beget words and deeds that are good and kind. Evil thoughts are the forerunners of evil actions, and so if we would rise above sin, we must think noble thoughts. To think the best of others and to put into hourly practice the wonderful Golden Rule is to come into possession of the very foundation and the structure of ethics. Social form or etiquette may supply superficial ornamentation and grace, perhaps, but the great thing, needful to make life desirable and beautiful, is that great command, "Do unto others as ye would that others should do unto you." That and the command which the Savior designated as the greatest commandment, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy might, mind and strength, and thy neighbor as thyself;" those precepts are the very foundation of all beautiful behavior. It was the Savior, too, who made the keen remark, "The tongue is an unruly member." Envy, spite and petty jealousy are the emotions which give rise to so many of the "hateful" little things that are said. And GUIDE LESSONS. 297 the damage done in that light way to reputation and to happiness are sometimes irreparable. When the faults or even the failings of an individual are pointed out, they then seem to stand out more prominently than the virtues. We all cherish ideals of some sort and many people like to idealize their friends. It comes therefore as a shock when the "muck-raker" gets to work and shows how very faulty the idealized one really is. We sigh and think how very faulty is human nature. When this experience has been repeated a few times in life, one begins to look upon all people with more or less suspicion. An artist, not long ago, in talking on art to a roomful of ladies, exhibited some pictures for their consideration. The talk was for general instruction, as to how a person may best view a picture to obtain an appreciation of its good qualities and its defects. One picture was very much admired. The speaker then asked her audience to point out its defects. On second thought, she remarked, "Perhaps I'd better not ask you that, or you might think more about the defects than about the good points, and so your enjoyment would be marred." Involuntarily, the question arose, "Is it not just so in regard to human affairs?" Who, among your acquaintances, are the most charitable towards the shortcomings of other people? Is it not those whose lives are most nearly perfect? They who are striving with all their might to fill their lives with good thoughts and noble deeds have little time or desire to criticize others or hold up their faults for your inspection. Some people are very complimentary to acquaintances, when with them, and quite free in criticism when absent. The knowledge of such behavior comes like a shock to gentle, trustful, and confiding persons. Those who are sensitive to criticism which is given in a carping way, become self-conscious, and are far from being at their best when they feel they are in the presence of critics. Unkind, cutting remarks have positively a deteriorating effect upon certain temperaments; and cloud and gloom may take the place of sunshine and hope. Criticism falls on some sweet natures like blight upon a beautiful plant. Kind words, and a little appreciation, are as helpful and needful to most people as is sunshine to most plants. Happily there are now cults and societies which consider it "bad form" to dwell needlessly upon the faults of people, or upon the gloomy side of life. Relief Society members, as a rule, are among the best women of the earth in observing the principles herein set forth; probably the very best. But we desire to consider any or all of the ques
 tions of life in a way to be most helpful to ourselves and to others. Note. Let the members be prepared with different quotations on this subject, giving the authorship when possible. QUESTIONS. How may much of the needless sorrow of this world be averted? What is your view as to the meaning of this life? Name some ways of mental growth. Name some ways of spiritual growth. What is it that must precede action? What are the effects of different kinds of thought? What are the fundamental principles of ethics? Give the Bible references to the quotations. What are the emotions which give rise to so many unkind speeches? What effect on the mind has the emphasizing of faults? Give some of the effects of shattered ideals upon the mind. What effect has unkind criticism upon some gentle natures? What kind of people are apt to be most free from giving criticism? Please memorize hymn in the L. D. S. Hymn Book, "Should You Feel Inclined to Censure," etc. ART. Devotees and Their Shrines, 56-63. (a) Tell of Mary Teasdel's life. What sacrifices did she make for the sake of art? Describe her Paris Studios. What is said of her teacher Jas. A. McNeil Whistler? Which picture do you like best? What do you think of the marines? The "Blossoms" and "Street in Normandy?" (b) Tell Rose Hartwell Whitley's ideas of how to begin art study. What are Rose Hartwell's best qualities? To whom belongs her picture shown in our reference books? (c) Describe A. B. Wright's mural decorations in Barratt Hall. Where could you use a mural decoration for a wall in your stake? Where does Wright teach art? (d) What has Myra Sawyer done as an artist? What is a miniature? What other artists paint miniatures? (e) Tell the life story of Lorus Pratt. (f) Read the sketch of Donald Beauregard. Why is his loss so great to Utah? Other Utah Artists will be studied from Devotees and Their Shrines, in the spring of 1916. Hushed was the Evening Hymn. Words by J. D. Burns. Music by Sir Arthur Sullivan. 1. Hushed was the evening hymn, The temple courts were dark; The 2. The old man meek and mild, The priest of Israel slept, His 3. Oh, give me Samuel's ear ? The open ear, O Lord! A lamp was burning dim Before the sacred ark; When suddenly a voice divine Rang through the silence of the shrine. watch the temple child, The little Levite kept, And what from Eli's sense was sealed The Lord to Hannah's son revealed. live and quick to hear Each whisper of Thy word; Like him to answer at Thy call, And to obey Thee first of all. McCONAHAY'S Stock of Cameos said to be one of the largest shown in the country. We welcome the chance McCONAHAY to show them to you. THE JEWELER 64 Main Street $1.00 to $300. Salt Lake City BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah ? ? INCORPORATED ? SALT LAKE CITY -UTAH The shoe store for the whole family? and every pair of shoes a "Money Back" quality. SALT LAKE'S LARGEST AND FINEST SHOE STORE All Relief Society Members who study the Art lessons in the guide, need Devotees and Their Shrines to prepare their lessons. Send to this magazine headquarters or Alice Merrill Home, 4 Ostler Court, Salt Lake City. Price $1.25 postpaid. 120 illustrations THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA Attractive in case design ? beautiful in finish ? pure and sweet, rich and full in tone ? the Kohler & Campbell piano at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" The Jensen Creamery Company Exists no longer. The Mutual Creamery Company has taken its place. The same high quality products will remain on the market. Continue to ask for "Blanchard" and "Four-in-One" Butters. The Mutual Creamery Co. Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH THE UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, SALT LAKE CITY UTAH It is the purpose of this Bank at all times to render helpful service and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. Supplies for Temple Uses; Those who desire neat, attractive and moderate-priced articles for rent or purchase, for use in the Temple, should apply to UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Relief Society Headquarters, Your Account is Cordially Invited JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres. Room 29, Bishop's Bldg. HOMESEEKERS' EXCURSIONS EAST DECEMBER 19 and 22, 1914 Following low round trip fares will prevail from Salt Lake City: Denver or Colorado Springs $22.50 Omaha or Kansas City 40.00 Memphis 59.85 Chicago 59.72 St. Paul or Minneapolis 53.86 Proportionately low rates from other points on the Oregon Short Line to the foregoing and many other points. See agents for particulars. CITY TICKET OFFICE HOTEL UTAH SALT LAKE CITY UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters ? and sons ? to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.