[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | April | Issue: 15 | Title: MRS. VIRGINIA C. MEREDITH of Cam- | Author: Unknown]

MRS. VIRGINIA C. MEREDITH of Cam-
bridge City, Ind., proprieter of one of the
finest Shorthorn herds in the country, is
writing for the Breeder's Gazette a series
of able papers on women as farmers. She
belives there is no spot equal to a farm for
at once furnishing a competence and
enabling a woman to establish a beautiful
home and bring up her children nobly.

	MRS. BALLINGTON BOOTH resides at
Montclair, N. J. She is the mother of a
sturdy little son of six years and a baby
girl sixteen months old. Although she is
so much engaged in lecturing and other
Salvation Army work, her home is well
kept, and her children are healthy and sun-
ny tempered, Mrs. Booth manages to
make her trips short, with frequent returns
home, where all her time, aside from her
office work, is devoted to her children.
“We have such good times together!” she
says.

	A RECENT letter from New Zealand says:
"I have traveled in many countries, but in
no other land have I seen the courtesy and
unobstrusive chivalry habitually exhibited
to women whether young or old, by New
Zealand young men of every condition and
rank. The status of a New Zealand wo-
man is considerably higher than that of her
sister in Australia or England, and she is
not likely to forget that she gained the
political franchise, not by inadvertence or
by party scheming, but as a deliberative act
of justice no less than chivalry on the part
of her countrymen,”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.                    
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 		-	- 			Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		 PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
