[Vol52 | June 1965 | Page 460 | General Feature | Notes From the Field | ]
NOTES FROM THE FIELD y me "ed ne 6. "~ ». * » JUNE 1965 Riverside Stake (Utah), Twenty-ninth Ward Relief Society Honors Former Presidents at Party, March 16, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Drucilla Newman; Pearl Putnam; Christina Barker; Mary Dunlop; and Sarah Harman (age ninety-four). Back row, standing, left to right: Donna Smith, President, Twenty-ninth Ward Relief Society; Bernetta Barton; Polli Celle; Mary Connary; Esther Nelson. Clara Smith and Elizabeth T. Madsen were unable to attend the party. Luella M. Buchi, President, Riverside Stake Relief Society, reports: "A fine program was presented, followed by a delicious luncheon. Each of the former presidents was presented with a lovely corsage. Many former members of the ward Relief Society were invited and enjoyed renewing old acquaintances. There have been fourteen Relief Society presidents in the Twenty-ninth Ward since its organization in 1902. Two have passed away—Sophie McKean, the first president, and Eugenie Hale, who, with her husband and three children, was killed in an automobile accident in 1954, while she was still serving as Relief Society president." Pomona Stake (California) Relief Society Style Show December 4th, 1964 Models, left to right: Sandi Calder; Jackie Price; Fern Sevy, general chairman. Harriett Finlayson, President, Pomona Stake Relief Society, reports: "Pomona Stake is just three years old, and like other eager and enthusiastic three-year-olds, we are growing out of everything we own. We are either building new, adding on, or squeezing in, throughout our seven wards. Our stake Relief Society presidency, Harriett Finlayson, Marie Thompson, and Marjorie Denkers, with the Secretary-Treasurer Ola Dodds, saw the need of the wards and stake to put a little money away to furnish the increased facilities for our sisters, as each construction is completed. "Along with this need, there was another—that of encouraging the attendance of our inactive sisters to a function of such quality that they would feel pride in their association with us. The reactivation of these sisters was our primary concern when, at the beginning of the year, we chose the theme: 'Be ye builders of the kingdom.' To accomplish these purposes, we decided upon a festive and beautiful fashion show. "Our members who sew well were called upon to create holiday fashions for themselves and their families, particularly encouraging the teenage daughters to discover the satisfaction of this form of creativity. Fern Sevy, the social science class leader, who makes her own clothes, was the chairman. She assembled her models and had them tutored in make-up, hair styles, and modeling technique. She enlisted professional musicians from our membership for special numbers, conscripted her husband to produce the muted, high-fidelity background music, coaxed a beautiful setting from the talents of a professional decorator, and wrote and read the narration. The whole stake board rallied to help. To accommodate everyone, we had both a matinee and an evening performance. Holiday fruit breads and cranberry punch were served from an attractive buffet. The price of each ticket sold in the wards was divided equally between the ward and the stake. "In addition to our major objectives, we were able to give recognition to our skilled seamstresses and to stimulate the interest of the nonsewers and the young people. We were very proud of the way in which our multiple purposes were accomplished." 464 Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Flies Relief Society Flag February 1965: Jean Smith; Ora > Leora Jay: Olene Trem- >; Guinn Patton: on. D the many blessings hearts of our women to SWell with Pride, love and devotion for the accomplishments of our wonderfy] Organiza 10n when our flag was displayed before the sisters "Eac month at our leadership department, beginning fora Specific We announced the name of each t ticular €partment and had them all Stand, S1ving them the recognition they dese ed. "The ag was beautifully desi Visiting teache increased Our attendance arged our appreciation for the work done In each - It also Caused us to realize more deeply the true Meaning of Relief Society t¢ the women of the urch." 466 THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1965-66 Elder Roy W. Doxey gw Powerful and informative sections of the Doctrine and Covenants do not always appear in chronological sequence as do those received in the closing month of 1832 and the beginning of 1833. Sections 88 through 92 contain many great truths which should be emphasized. A superficial examination of a revelation, without due attention being given to its most important messages, lS never a completely rewarding experience. Revelations to be appreciated, require a studied and prayerful examination of their central ideas. Although five lessons this year are spent in a study of Section 88, there is still much to be written about many of the marvelous truths revealed in the "Olive Leaf," the name the Prophet Joseph Smith gave to this revelation. The "Olive Leaf" is the Lord's message of peace to the saints. An important theme of one of the five lessons is the way in which the Lord, through this revelation, speaks peace to his people. Peace in the life of the saint is important in any period. It might be contended that world conditions have so far worsened morally, as to individuals and nations, that there is great need for the saint to be on the Lord's side and thereby receive the peace promised to the faithful. Section 88 speaks peace through revealing an understanding of God's purposes for man in the operation of the universe, the satisfaction received through knowing of his plan for the salvation of all men, the assurance of the resurrection and association with friends and loved ones, the glories of the resurrected worlds in which we shall all have a place, and the fact that law prevails throughout God's kingdoms. All of these ideas indicate that through knowledge, the saint may have peace in a troubled world. Ideas that exalt and ennoble man, and other valued truths of rich content are interspersed throughout Section 88. Counsel which, if followed, will bring happiness unbounded with the peace that satisfies, is another contribution of this revelation.

One of the most widely known revelations in the Doctrine and 


 Covenants is the Word of Wisdom (Section 89). Evidence is available to substantiate the prophetic element of this revelation. In the two lessons about the Word of Wisdom, these questions are answered: Is the Word of Wisdom a commandment? What is given in Section 89 that supports belief that the Lord expects his saints to observe it? How does the observance of the Word of "keys" of the Priesthood in the order of the Church organization and the importance of our personal obligation to renew and keep our covenants. This section is full of information vital to the proper direction of the Church in this dispensation. Section 91 instructs the Prophet concerning the Apocrypha of the Old Testament, and Section 92 is a revelation and commandment that Frederick G. Williams should be received into the United Order. Wisdom contribute to the spirituality of the Latter-day Saint?