[Vol52 | June 1965 | Page 442 | Home | Feather Flowers | RaNae Gledhill]
_ a 5 " a z: - — " +° ' Feather Howers RaNae Gledhill TRANSPARENCIES BY L. PAUL ROBERTS ® Feather artistry has been handed down from generation to generation. Our parents and grandparents used feathers on hats, costumes, and fans. Their homes were decorated with vases containing ostrich, pheasant, peacock, and other fancy feathers. Feathers are even more glamorous today than ever before. Turkey, chicken, duck, goose, vulture, ostrich, and peacock are all used and are dyed every color imaginable. Feathers take dye beautifully and it is possible to get brilliant colors. Any amateur can create an exotic feather flower arrangement to fit into a certain decor in her home. To clean the feathers shake the dust off, tie in bunches, and wash them in detergent or soap and water, rinse, and hang up to dry. It is possible to dye your own feathers. They must first be prepared by washing to remove any natural grease or oil. It is a good idea to add vinegar to the dye and to test a few feathers first to be sure the right shade is obtained. Tie feathers in bunches and hang up to dry. Feathers are inexpensive to buy already cleaned, however, and unbelievably beautiful] colors are available. 442 If feathers become crushed, just steam them over an open kettle, and they will be restored to their natural appearance. This also makes them flexible and easy to work with. To curl a feather, just run a knife or scissors along the back edge of the quill and curl as you would a ribbon. Repeat if necessary. Materials needed for making feather flower arrangements are floral wire (fine gauge and heavy gauge), floral tape, and glue. Other materials which can be used are styrofoam balls, flower centers, jewelry discs, and cloth or plastic leaves, if desired. Peonies and roses are made of goose floral feathers and glued into a styrofoam ball. Carnations are made of turkey base feathers wired together and trimmed with pinking shears. Tulips and poppies use the turkey feathers and are curled and then glued to a small disc. Poinsettias and fantasy flowers are created from the long slender hackle feathers. Sweet sultans and anemones are made from fluffy feathers. Very exotic flowers can be made from the ostrich feather simply by stripping all the feathers from the spine and tying together with a fine wire. Lilies are made from duck feathers with the spine removed. Tall, graceful delphiniums are especially lovely in arrangements. They are easily made by taping short floral feathers to a long stem wire. Vulture and peacock feathers are long and graceful and have an attractive curve. Peacock feathers come in either pointed side feathers or rounded eye feathers. These are mainly used to complement other flowers in arrangements. It is possible to create many other lovely flowers—just use your imagination and a few feathers!