[Vol52 | June 1965 | Page 432 | Special Feature | Thoughts of a Mother During a Family Home Evening Luacine | C. Fox]
Sometimes when he smiles at me THOUGHTS OF A MOTHER DURING A FAMILY HOME EVENING he looks almost like an angel. And Margaret, my baby! I'm glad she's still little. They're all growing up so fast—here's Janie getting married soon, and Jim getting close to it, I'm sure. Before you know it, Tracy and Marianne will have gone through adolescence and then they'll be getting engaged. Of course, Tracy will have his mission first. And Johnny. In no time at all he'll —oh, sometimes I feel like stopping the hands on the clock and making time stand still. Yes, I am so grateful for Margaret. She's an adorable little thing, and I don't say that just because I'm her mother. She really is. When she climbs into my lap for me to read to her, or wrinkles up her nose to make us laugh—or when I see her in bed at night, sound asleep with that ridiculous old rag doll she loves so much tucked under her chin, something just twists inside of me. What a joy to be a mother in Israel! I wonder how mothers of the The Earl S. Spafford Family "Scripture is the word of the Lord. Since the beginning of the course, you have been introducing your family to the scriptures. This lesson [24] gives you more opportunity to teach them what the scriptures are and how much they need them." TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP Family Home Evening Manual, page 193 TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP The Samuel F. Guevara Family "Let each fill in the left-hand column one or two ideas he wants to carry out during the week to help him grow in faith in our Heavenly Father. The right-hand column he fills in after he has done thé self-assigned tasks." world, women who are not privileged to be members of the Church, I wonder how they feel about their children. Can they possibly love them as dearly as we love ours? You wonder how they could when they don't realize that the children who come to them are choice spirits from the actual presence of our Eternal Father. That they are sent to us as guests in our homes, to live with us and be cherished and nurtured in the paths of truth so that they may return to their 436 Family Home Evening Manual, page 210 Eternal Father again, prepared for exaltation. To think, that while the rest of the world flounders in bewilderment, not knowing where to turn, seeing the chaos that is everywhere and with panic rising in their hearts—to think that we mothers in Israel are sheltered by the power of the Priesthood. We do not need to flounder; we do not need to fear. We have but to follow the inspired leadership of God's prophets on the earth— to sustain the President of the TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP "A Family Outing—Made Successful by Love... Church who is the mouthpiece of the Lord. I keep remembering what the visiting Authority said at the last stake conference: that if we did not accept this plan for the Family Home Evenings and follow through with it, there wouldn't be many left here to greet the Savior when he comes. We must go forward as we have been instructed! Heavenly Father, give me, as the mother of these children and the wife of my husband, the The Richard K. Winters Family 9. Takea trip to the zoo." Family Home Evening Manual, page 190 strength and courage to proceed in the way that thou hast marked out for me. Help me to realize that these Family Home Evenings are vital; that I must not neglect them. And help me to stand steadfast by my dear husband's side upholding him as head of the house—encouraging him in patience, love, and with the fullness of purpose and quiet diligence that is a woman's strength. Help me, my Father, please, please help me.