[Vol52 | June 1965 | Page 470 | Home | Work Meeting | ]
Christensen Lesson 8 — The Family Counsels Together (A course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January through September 1965) For August 1965 Objective: To emphasize the value of family members counseling together on matters of family interest. INTRODUCTION In order that family life may function smoothly and profitably for all, parents and children should make decisions as to many matters which are of importance. To the family. Some of the issues which are of family member interest are use of family facilities; where to spend family vacations; 470 wise use of family funds; goals of individual family members, such as work, college, and Church missions. Of concern to all should be general budgeting and organizing of time, so that goals set by the family for the family may be achieved. Some of these issues, with suggestions for a possible meeting of problems which these issues may create, will be discussed in this lesson. "UNIQUE TO THEIR FAMILY'' The Family Home _ Evening Manual provides for systematic teaching of the gospel to all family members. There are also (as is well known by this time) suggestions for social and recreational activities which well may be associated with the weekly instruction period. Still other important aspects of family living are of interest and importance to the family, and the flexibility of the Family Home Evening program allows for a consideration of these important matters. The following statements appear in the Foreword to the Family Home Evening Manual, page vii: "... Only forty-six lessons are included in this manual, thus allowing a minimum of six weeks for additional flexibility; these weeks may be interspersed throughout the year according to the desires or special needs of the family.... Other parents may desire to create special activities unique to their family." This flexibility provides an excellent opportunity for parents to counsel with their children on problems or situations of general or specific interest to their particular family. A portion of the scheduled and regular Home Evening, moreover, might, at times, be devoted to such considerations. VALUABLE TRAINING One of the most important and always-with-us family matters has to do with the expenditure of money. Some parents may obLESSON DEPARTMENT ject to a family consideration of family funds; however, other parents believe that children can be given valuable training as to the wise use of money without being told the financial status or exact amount of the family income. They say that. Children should know something about the financial needs of the family and that, through a wisely guided discussion of money matters, children may be instructed in the law of (1) tithing (and other Church offerings); (2) the value of saving (for missions and college); (3) the blessings of sharing with others (needy family members and worthy community charities). While younger members of the family may not be in a position to offer suggestions as to such goals as college and missions, they learn much as they hear parents and older family members discuss these important goals. THE FAMILY VACATION Where to spend the summer vacation may be a subject suitable for family discussion where children are old enough to warrant their participation and where parents have done preparatory planning. In the following illustration, the parents, having previously considered two desirable vacation trips, invited the children to express their preference. Bill (age ten) later converses with a friend regarding the family summer vacation. Friend: Did you go to Yellowstone Park for your vacation? Billy: No, we went to Kansas to see Uncle Henry. Friend: But I thought you wanted to go to Yellowstone. 


 Billy: I did. So did two of my sisters. We wanted to see the geysers and the bears. Friend: Well, why didn't you go? Billy: You see, we discussed it at our Family Home Evening. Dad said there wouldn't be enough time or money to go to Yellowstone and to Kansas, too, so we'd need to choose which we'd prefer. My sister Barbara said that the geysers would be there forever but that Uncle Henry and the farm likely wouldn't, so she suggested Kansas. Friend: Does what Barbara wants go for all the family? Billy: Oh no, she's only one person, but when we voted, more persons thought as she did, so we went to Kansas. Our mother said maybe we could go to Yellowstone next year. What does this response to family counseling indicate? (A willingness to cooperate and to consider the desires of others.) What does it imply as to the future of these family members? (An important step toward maturity has been taken by these children which will assist them to happy adult living.) WHERE THE FAMILY MAKES THE RULES Many parents enlist the cooperation of their children in establishing rules for use of family facilities. They believe that children will feel a greater responsibility to fulfill obligations to which they have agreed than to regulations which they may feel have been imposed upon them. They, therefore, use a guided family discussion period to formulate these rules. Consider the following statements which show the result of the family recommendation that parents always be consulted as to the use of the family car. 472 Rodney: Dad, I'd like to use the car one night this week end. Which night would fit best into the family schedule? Father: Ill check with your mother as to her needs. Either Friday or Saturday would be all right as far as I'm concerned. Do you know what Stephen and Margie are planning? Margie: (age fourteen) Mother, could I have use of the car Wednesday night so Stephen can drive Betty and me to the roadshow? Mother: I think so, but have you asked your father if he needs it on Wednesday? And have you asked Stephen if he is free to take you? Stephen: I have a basketball practice Wednesday night. Is anyone using the car? Could these conflicting interests be resolved more satisfactorily through a family discussion period? SELFISH USE OF FAMILY FACILITIES Today's complex living makes demands upon all family facilities. Selfish use of these facilities by family members may prompt complaints such as the following: 1. Does Margie have to use the telephone all evening? Can't she ever say goodbye? 2. How come Rodney gets the car tonight? He took it without asking. 3. Do we have to have western movies on TV all the time, just because Kenny likes them so much? 4. I can't study with so much noise in the family room. Why can't Bob practice his horn in_ his bedroom? Briefly reconstruct the family situations which could have prompted these complaints. Could a guided family discussion help to resolve these petty grievances? SHALL THE FAMILY CORRECT? Some fathers who are advocates of periodic family discussion periods like to ask, "Are there any problems which you children would like to have us discuss?' Their responses often may bring to light concerns in young minds which otherwise might never be known to the parents. The wise mother will value assistance in bettering her relationship with her children and, therefore, will consider seriously such statements as_ the following: 1. Mary (age eleven): "I'd like to discuss cleaning up cur room. When it's Janet's turn to clean up she just stuffs everything she doesn't know what to do with into MY dresser drawers. I don't like this." What character trait in each of the girls may this statement indicate to the listening mother? (In Janet, perhaps a tendency to shift responsibility; in Mary, a desire for neatness, but perhaps also a feeling of resentment.) 2. Boy (age eight): "I wish mothers weren't so busy. Lots of times I have questions to ask my mother but she seems so far away. I mean her mind seems far away, as if it didn't want to hear questions." How can such a statement help the mother of this small boy? (She should review her busyness and arrange to spend a little more time with her young son.) Parents may need to consider, seriously, the wisdom of using a family counseling period for correction of individual error. If a child is to feel that correction is LESSON DEPARTMENT to help him, and that it is given in loving consideration for his welfare, and not a rejection of him as an individual, it may be unwise to have all family members made aware of his error and allowed to pass judgment on his mistake. Certain infractions of approved behavior, parents may prefer and should prefer to discuss with the child individually. There are, however, many small infractions of good _ behavior, of which all people are guilty, to some degree, which may be corrected easily, if one is made aware of them in a constructive way. The family discussion period may be an especially appropriate occasion for this correction, with father or mother giving kind and_ constructive counsel. Such discussions might involve polite behavior, such as the boy standing when an elderly person approaches, opening the door for his mother and sisters, girls thanking boys for special courtesies. SUMMARY Those who advocate having the family counsel together periodically, believe that much good can come to the child and other family members as a result of this practice. Children feel important by being members of a guided family discussion; their opinions being valued, their vote counted; their approval or _ disapproval considered. If they can be taught that many problem situations disappear when family members are kind and unselfish, when they see the need to consider the opinions of other members of the family, then the family discus- 


 sion, with father and mother guiding it, may be of value to the entire family. Of what specific value may such a discussion be to the mother? (It may serve as a polltaking by which she may appraise her effectiveness in certain areas of her mothering. It may reveal those areas where more effort and more understanding are needed to make the present home a happier one.) If the present home is a happy one, it will be an effective training ground for happy homes of the future. LITERATURE ~— The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Textbook: Out of the Best Books: An Anthology of Literature FOR DISCUSSION Questions that appear in the lesson, plus others which may arise during the class discussion. FOR HOME DOING: Discuss with husband situations in your home which might be suitable for a guided discussion. Hold a family counseling and discussion period in your home (if you have not already done so). Appraise its value to your family. A Volume I: The Individual and Human Values by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Deseret Book Company Press, Salt Lake City Preview of Lessons for 1965-66 Elder Bruce B.