[Vol52 | June 1965 | Page 474 | Lesson | Literature — The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Bruce | B. Clark]
[Literature — The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Bruce B. Clark]

Clark @ The new program in literature for the Relief Society organization has now been functioning for a year. Three things identify this new program. First, the focus is upon the works of literature themselves rather than upon authors' lives or historical background, and this focus encourages stimulating discussion and exchange of ideas with all the in- 474 sight into life and life's values that literature can give. Second, for the first time in its history, the Relief Society has provided a book of literature especially prepared for use by members of the Church, which permits a personal study of selections from the world's great literature. Fortunately, the book is available at a very reasonable price ($2.95), and those wards in which many sisters have copies of the book report special success in its use. Third, the new program is an effort to harmonize literature with the gospel, permitting a rich correlation between the ideals of our cultural heritage and the ideals of our religion. Our obligation as members of the Church is first of all to study the scriptures and the words of our modern prophets for the fullness of the gospel that they contain. But beyond these we are encouraged to study the best writings of the world for the supplemental knowledge and insight that these can give. At its best, literature is concerned with building faith and championing spiritual values—and with opposing and exposing sin, materialism, shallowness, and all things false. The literature program for 1965-66 will be a continuation of the program for the past year and will use the same book. Again there will be a sufficient number of selections covered each month so that stake and ward literature leaders can select those most useful for their group. And again the sisters will be encouraged to bring to their reading and discussion of the selections all of their own background in life's experiences. For literature is valuable not only because of the author's talent and insight but also because it stirs readers to think and evaluate and aspire. It is good, as we approach another year of reading literature, that we remind ourselves of the PREVIEWS OF LESSONS FOR 1965-66 challenges and rewards of great literature. Perhaps these are nowhere stated better than by Mortimer Adler in the brilliant little essay on pp. 19-20 of Out of the best Books, which reads in part: The great books are not easy to read. No one should expect to understand them very well on a first reading, nor even to master them fully after many readings. I have often said that they are the books which are over everyone's head all of the time. That is why they must be read and reread. That is also why they are good for us. Only the things which are over our head can lift us up. As we approach another year of study it is also good to remind ourselves that reading a work of literature is a beginning and not an end. It opens doors rather than closes them. When we finish reading a selection we should be left thinking, not with all questions answered, but with sufficient insight that we are just a little better prepared to meet life's challenges and achieve our eternal goals. Finally, as we participate in the Relief Society literature program we should remember that the program will be fully successful only if we carry it into our homes, sharing the wonder and wisdom of good literature, as well as its delights, with our families. One of the most valuable things we parents can give our children is a love of reading, plus some skill in analyzing what we read; and one of the best ways to do this is to read and discuss literature as a family group in the home. 


 The literature titles and objectives for 1965-66 are as follows: Lesson 1, for October 1965: Good Versus Evil, Part I (pp. 281-328 of text). Objective: To show literature's concern with man's struggle to triumph over evil and accomplish good. Lesson 2, for November 1965: Good Versus Evil, Part Il (pp. 329-360 of text, supplemented by pp. 246-280). Objective: To show that problems of good and evil involve problems of personal choice. Lesson 3, fer January 1966: Growth Through Experience (pp. 113-123 and 179-197 of text). Objective: To show how literature dramatizes the fact that sometimes we learn through experience and sometimes we resist learning to remain unchanged. Lesson 4, for February 1966: The Place of Suffering in Life, Part I (pp. 363-371, 380-385, and 397-404 of text). Objective: To examine the nature of grief and man's resources in time of suffering. Lesson 5, for March 1966: The Place of Suffering in Life, Part I! (pp. 372-379, 386-396, and 405-419 of text). Objective: To show how hardship and suffering can strengthen character if we respond to them maturely. Lesson 6, for April 1966: Facing Death, Part I (pp. 420-439, 445-447, and 473-482 of text). Objective: To consider death, viewed with relationship to different life situations. Lesson 7, for May 1966: Facing Death, Part Il (pp. 443-444 and 448-472 of text). Objective: To help us view death with confident affirmation rather than with dread.