[Vol52 | June 1965 | Page 448 | Home | Food with Foreign Tastes Florian H. Thayn Lesson Department - Previews for 1965-66 | ]
FOOD WITH FOREIGN TASTES Pistitio Carol Richards, with her husband Clyde and their children, lived in Greece where this recipe originated. Pistitio (Pi-steet-see-o) Boil 34 Ib. Of macaroni until tender. Drain and put back into pan with a lump of butter. This prevents the macaroni sticking together or to the pan. Now, brown in 1% cup olive oil: 114 Ib. Hamburger; 4 large onions, chopped; 3 cloves garlic; 2 tbsp. Parsley; 1 tbsp. Allspice (that is correct). Salt and pepper to taste. Add 1 can tomato soup and remove from heat immediately. Make a cream sauce of 6 cups of milk; 1 tbsp. Butter and 14 cup water mixed with 1% cup cornstarch. Cook until thick. Salt and pepper to taste. Grease pan lightly and place one half of the macaroni for the bottom layer. Sprinkle generously with Parmesan cheese. Cover macaroni with meat mixture. Put remainder of macaroni on top and sprinkle generously with Parmesan cheese. Pour thick white sauce over entire mixture. It should cover the macaroni well. Sprinkle with cinnamon and bake at 350° for 30 minutes. Cut in squares and serve. Pistitio can be prepared, covered with foil, and frozen. Malanzane Alla Parmigiana Reared in the shadow of Jefferson's Monticello, Dorothy Caruso takes a back seat (or should one say "back kettle') to no one when it comes to Southern cooking. Marriage to Vincent Caruso added Italian zip to her notable cooking repertoire. Her mother-in-law's recipe is for people who think they do not like eggplant! Malanzane Alla Parmigiana Peel and slice a medium-sized eggplant. Lay the slices on a flat plate. Cover with another plate and place a heavy weight on top for about three hours. The juice that is drained off has a bitter flavor many object to. This step can be omitted, but this is the authentic way it is prepared by good Italian cooks. Dip the slices into a dish containing 2 beaten eggs then into fine bread crumbs seasoned with salt, pepper, chopped fresh or dried parsley, and grated Parmesan cheese. Brown, do not cook, in olive oil. Cover the bottom of a casserole with your favorite spaghetti sauce. Place a layer of eggplant; sprinkle with more grated Parmesan cheese and spaghetti sauce and thin slices of Mozarella cheese. Repeat with second layer, ending with sliced cheese. About 2 cups of sauce are needed. Bake at 350° about 30 minutes. American Beet Salad Judge not this colorful beet salad until you have tried it! Because of its bright color, it is called: American Beet Salad 2 cans diced beets (or cook fresh beets and dice to make 3 cups) 1 thinly sliced purple Bermuda onion — _ dash of salt = 3 tbsp. Mayonnaise (do not substitute salad dressing) Mix and chill. Add 2 cups shredded lettuce just before serving. This salad is excellent for picnics and will keep many days without the lettuce.