[Vol52 | June 1965 | Page 411 | Special Feature | An Apache in Our Home | Ruth Peterson]
I were indeed fortunate to have such precious children. Daddy was reading the letter from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Indian Student Placement Program informing us that we were to go to the Reception Center on the Brigham Young University campus in Provo in two weeks to get our Indian student. As he finished reading, my husband looked at me, smiling, "I guess when five people want a dream to come true as much as we have, that dream just has to come true, it has no other alternative." In family prayer that evening, Ramona thanked Heavenly Father for arranging to send us an Indian boy, and 'Please, please, help him to like us all." The time had come, we all agreed. We were ready for an Indian student to live with us. Preferably a young boy to share Michael's room.

[An Apache in Our Home Ruth Peterson]

One hot July afternoon, two months before, I had opened the front door and saw two men on the doorstep, case workers of the Church, of course. We_ shook hands and they came in. We talked long and earnestly with each other. The case workers explained the Indian Student Placement Program. Indian children who were baptized members of the Church, who were doing well in school on the reservation, and who, with parental consent and encouragement, wished to come from the reservation to live with a Latter-day Saint family, 412 could become part of the Program. Their opportunity for growth and _ development in Church and school would be much greater than in the environment of reservation life. The case workers explained to me some of the problems that might occur and that would need to be met with patience, love, and understanding. They were trained social workers and would be available to help the student and the family at any time. I explained to the case workers that each member of our family was looking forward to having a new family member who would be loved, and with whom all our material and spiritual blessings could be shared. The interview was completed. As the men left our home, I had a prayer in my heart that all that would be decided would be for the best of all concerned. Then the letter had come! WE were all eager and happy, singing our favorite songs together as we traveled on a bright, warm September day to Provo. Finally the time had come. Here he was! A small, timid, nine-yearold Apache boy from Southern Arizona. As we all introduced ourselves to him, each child shook hands solemnly with him, and with my arms about his shoulders and Father picking up his suitcase, we went to the car. As my husband's and my eyes met, they became clouded with tears and we whispered to each _ other, "Why, if we could have gone to the reservation ourselves and chosen our own child, this one would have been the very one!" On the way home we drove through lovely Provo Canyon and stopped beside the stream to have our picnic lunch. We had many questions to ask Erwin, but we tried not to ask them all at once. The long ride all night from Arizona had been too much for the little fellow, and he slept most of the way into Salt Lake City. With eagerness, we all showed Erwin through our home and then to the room he would share with Michael. We showed him his bed, newly purchased and the bedspread I had made for it, just like Michael's. We showed him his chest of drawers, and I helped him unpack his articles of clothing and put them in the drawers. Michael then showed him the toys and the rest of the family went to the kitchen to prepare dinner. We were all having difficulty understanding him, for he spoke low and his vocabulary and sentence structure were limited. In questioning him, we learned that he spoke Apache at home and with his friends, and spoke English only in school. We spoke slowly to him, trying to choose simple words that we hoped he would understand. Each day was interesting, and each day Erwin learned from us and we learned from him. The principal and teachers at the school were most understanding and were happy to have him. At recess, many children crowded around Erwin, to learn his name and to welcome him into their childhood associations. At the ward it was the same, the members were interested in our new family member, wishing to be friends with him. Some time later, at the invitation of the bishop we took the AN APACHE IN OUR HOME family to the ward to see the movie, "The Windows of Heaven," depicting a part of the life of President Lorenzo Snow. When Lorenzo Snow first was shown on the screen, Erwin leaned over to me and whispered, "Is_ that Jesus?" When we arrived home after the movie, we went to the bookcase and brought out several of the children's books about Jesus. What a lovely time the children had, taking turns, telling and showing Erwin what they knew and understood about the Christ. One Sunday after sacrament meeting, while riding home in the car, Erwin asked out loud to no one in particular, "Why do the grown people all shake hands and call each other brother and sister? They aren't all really brothers and sisters, are they?" I repressed the desire in myself to answer the question and let the children answer. From experience, I found that they actually gave better answers to his questions than I did. He understood them better, and in answering the children had to search their own understanding for the explanations. We wondered one evening as we were preparing to attend a Family Night Concert of the Utah Symphony, just how Erwin would respond to such a program. It was his first visit to the Tabernacle, so we went early to show him the building and explain its history. When the concert began, he didn't move a muscle. He sat enthralled. When we were driving home, he was strangely silent, so the children asked him how he liked the concert. "That was 


 real music, wasn't it? I wish I could sit right in the middle of all those people making the music. What were all those things the people had?" He was asking about the instruments. The only instruments he had really seen were a guitar and a piano. So when we arrived home, without any word to them from us, the children went to the bookcase and found the books on music and instruments and soon had their heads together in a little conference. As the hour was late, my husband and I went to bed, knowing that as soon as they had exhausted their knowledge of the subject matter under discussion, the children would follow. How Erwin rolled and laughed in the first heavy snowfall. His excitement knew no bounds as he watched his first snowman assume shape in our front yard. How thrilled he was when a neighbor asked that Michael and he assume the responsibility of shoveling their walks during the winter. When Erwin brought his first earned money to show me, we sat down together, and I told him about tithing. It was difficult for him to understand, just as difficult as it was for him to understand why he should go hungry on Fast Day. After nine months with a Fast Day each month, and tithing payments, I am still not sure that he understands why he is following these commandments, but I feel that through obedience he will come to understand. In reviewing the past nine months, many things come to mind, especially the word, completeness. We feel our family is complete. Many problems were 414 overcome and many rewarding experiences have been shared. Although Erwin was to have been in the third grade on the reservation (the grade in which he was placed in the school here) he was doing schoolwork on a first-grade level. This meant much study at home with me, as at first he was not able to study independently. Often he would become despondent and angry at himself that he could not comprehend better, that he could not learn faster. ERWIN was an obedient boy, always finishing his tasks quickly, always dressed and ready to go, always eager to learn from new experiences. But for awhile, when I tucked him into bed at night, I could see tears in his eyes and knew that he was thinking of home. Then I would sit on his bed, take him into my arms, and talk to him about his home and what was happening to him, and then sing to him the lullaby I have sung to each of my children through the years. I was continually amazed at the willingness of the children to share everything they had with Erwin, their toys, their books, their friends, and most important of all, they shared their time and talents. They taught him there were sO many more interesting things to do than to sit and watch TV. They taught him there was so much more beautiful music than rock-and-roll. They listened eagerly to him when he talked about his home and life in Arizona. As time went on, we realized that Erwin was working hard to catch up to his age group in school, he needed something that he could personally do well. After seeing a group of Indians performing Indian dances, we made a very beautiful feathered Indian dancing costume and gave it to Erwin for his birthday. We purchased and borrowed from the library, books on Indian culture and lore and taught Erwin some Indian dances. Then came the day when his school teacher asked him to dance for the class and his Cub Scout den mother asked him to dance for the pack meeting. As a family, we researched and wrote a little program which explained the various dances. I made costumes for each of the children and others for Erwin for special dances such as the Scalp Dance and the Buffalo Dance. We made a large Indian War drum and some shields. We had lots of fun together and learned so much. Erwin become interested in his AN APACHE IN OUR HOME and the desire to read became of prime interest to him. Erwin will be going back to the reservation in a week. Each one of us has an ache in his heart that won't go away until Erwin returns to us in the fall. Grandparents, cousins, neighborhood playmates, Cub Scouts, Sunday School and Primary teachers, and many others will miss Erwin. We know that the Church plan is the best. Erwin needs to return to renew his family ties and kinship with his people. They will be amazed at his growth—physically, intellectually, and _ spiritually. I am going to make a prediction. This fall, just before school starts, Father, Mother, Rebecca, ~Ramona, and Michael will be waiting on the campus of Brigham Young University, and as they see the familiar figure with the broad smile, flashing eyes, and quick step, they will all call people. He asked for Indian out in unison, "Here comes books at the library and at school Erwin!"