[Vol52 | June 1965 | Page 402 | General Feature | From Near and Far | ]

From Near and Far Because so many members of my

family have lived and served in Australia,

the Jamieson River scene (April

cover) has added significance to me.

The inside frontispiece picture (Easter

Lilies, by Josef Muench), and the poem

"When Flowers Star Gethsemane," by

Linnie F. Robinson, are the very essence

of Easter. I was inspired by the editorial

"Sufficient Unto the Day," by

Marianne C. Sharp. I need so much to

apply that which has obviously blessed

her life. "We Are God's Children," by

Rixta Werbe, touched me to the core.

There is no virtue I desire to cultivate

as much as charity.

Mrs. Mary M. Porter

Clearfield, Utah

The coming of the Magazine each

month is a real event — nothing could

be better than the April issue. Each

poem and each article seemed to be

designed for me. The story "State of

Mind," by Lael J. LMirttsk.e Z iilsl a o u Gt.s t Paancdkiangr.d

Los Angeles, California

The color photographs in the March

Magazine are breathtaking — and so

many of them. Each glows like jewelry.

The article on England by Claire Noall

is especially fine. Thanks for the excellent

stories and the distilled beauty

of the poetry. Norma Wrathall's story

"A Doll for Emarita" is well conceived

and well written. She certainly understands

these Mexican-American neighbors

of ours and presents them truly

and sympathetically.

Katherine F. Larsen

Mountain View, California

I am a convert to the Church and find

the Magazine something to really look

forward to receiving every month. I

especially enjoy the handicrafts and,

of course, the priceless lessons, not

to exclude the recipes.

Mrs. P. Hansen

Honolulu, Hawaii

It was with delight that I opened the

March Relief Society Magazine and

saw the front cover (The Langdales,

Lake District, England), and with joy

I scanned the pages and found the

pictures of our beloved Ribble Valley.

I would like to assure you that the

green depicted in the lovely photographs

by S ister Noall is indeed a true

green. I was born within the shadow of

Pendle Hill, and my family have lived

on the slopes nearby for about four

hundred years.

Margaret Blackham

Burnley, Lancashire, England

Thanks for the lovely April Magazine.

The layout of color for the article from

a dear member from Germany, Sister

Rixta Werbe, should be commended,

and the article itself is thoroughly prepared.

I m ention, also, "In Praise of

Spring," by Vera R. Holden, Stockport,

Cheshire, England, Dorothy J. Roberts'

dear verses "Solace for Tears" tell

a whole story of years of careful training,

tears, and prayer; and "The Proposal,"

by M uriel Jenkins Heal is one

of the sweetest poems I have ever read.

Clara H. Park

Salt Lake City, Utah

The ward Magazine representative in

one of the wards where we are trying

to get the young mothers to subscribe

for the Magazine and to attend the

meetings, told me how much she enjoyed

the Magazine. She is twenty-three

and has two small children. She said

one day she was quite upset, and the

Magazine happened to come, so she

picked it up. Suddenly she found the

answer to her problem, and since then,

the minute the Magazine comes she

reads it. As for myself, I love the

poetry. It fills my need. It is wonderful

to have so many gifted sisters writing

for the Magazine.

Helen Shaw

President

South Carolina West Stake

Charlotte, North Carolina
