[WomansExponent | Vol8 | 1879 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: 128		WOMAN'S EXPONENT. | Author: Unknown]

128		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDWARD Eggleston says: "In no period
previous to our own could it be said that
the greatest English writer of English prose
was a woman. This distinction fairly be-
longs to George Eliot."

	THE death of William Hepworth Dixon,
the writer and traveler, and long editor of
the London "Athenœum," is announced.
The cause of his death was apoplexy.

	SENATOR G. F. Hoar has bought the land
at Princeton, Mass., on which John Hoar,
an ancestor, once redeemed a captive, Mrs.
Rowlandson, from the Iudians. A bowlder,
cailed "Redemption Rock," lies upon this
land, and on this bowlder a suitable inscrip-
tion has been cut.—Ex.

	THE officers of the Iowa Woman Suffrage
Society are as follows: President, Mrs. M.
C. Callahan, Des Moines; Corresponding
Secretary, Mrs. C. F. Harkness, Humboldt;
Recording Secretary, Mrs. M. A. Work,
Des Moines; Treasurer, Mrs. M. J. Green,
Des Moines.

	MRS. Mary A. Pell, of South Carolina,
will be one of the delegates to the Wash-
ington Convention. Mrs. Harriet S. Brooks,
of Nebraska, has signified her intention of
being present. Elizabeth Boynton Harbert,
of Chicago, has also so written. Mrs. Stan-
ton will be accompanied by her daughter,
Harriet Eaton Stanton, a recent graduate
from the Boston School of Oratory. Penn-
sylvania will send Edward M. Davis, Lu-
cinda B. Chandler, Lydia L. Whiteman,
Misses Julia and Rachel Foster. New York
will, as usual, be fully represented. Miss
Anthony, having reserved convention days
from her engagements, will be present.
New York City will send delegates. Eliza-
beth Avery Meriwether, of Tennessee, may
be there. Elizabeth L. Saxon, of New Or-
leans, will, for the first time, attend a na-
tional convention. The women of the
South are rapidly wakening to their need
of the ballot, and, their friends prophesy,
will go "with a rush, when once they break
away from Mrs. Grundy."
	The means to be adopted to secure from
each political party the recognition af wo-
man's claim to self-government, will be dis-
cussed at this convention; planks proposed
for presidential platforms, and candidates
canvassed.—Ex.


[Column 1]
