[Vol11 | June 1924 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Teachers' Topic for August]
Teachers'  Topic  for  August 
Conservation  of  Health 
"And  I  the  Lord  gave  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroy- 
ing angel  shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not 
slay  them." 
A.  Personal  hygiene — cleanliness,  fresh  air,  proper  food, 
elimination. 
B.  Read  and  discuss  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  Doc.  and  Cov. 
Section  89.

EDITORIAL 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Motto — Charity  Never  Faileth 
THE   GENERAL   BOARD 
MRS.    CLARISSA    SMITH    WILLIAMS   
-        President 
MRS.    JENNIE    BRIMHALL    KNIGHT         -         -        -  .      -        -        First    Counselor 
MRS.     LOUISE    YATES     ROBISON   
Second     Counselor 
MRS.   AMY   BROWN    LYMAN        -        -        -         General    Secretary   and    Treasurer 
Mrs.  Emma  A.  Empey  Mrs.  Lotta  Paul  Baxter      Mrs.   Ethel  Reynolds   Smith 
Mrs.  Jeanette  A.  Hyde        Mrs.  Julia  A.  Child  Mrs.  Barbara  Howell  Richards 
Miss  Sarah  M.  McLelland    Mrs.  Cora  L.  Bennion  Mrs.   Rosannah   C.   Irvine 
Mrs.  Annie  Wells  Cannon    Mrs.  Julia  A.  F.  Lund        Miss  Alice  Louise  Reynolds 
Mrs.  Lalene  H.  Hart  Mrs.  Amy  Whipple  Evans 
Mrs.    Lizzie   Thomas   Edward,   Music  Director 
Miss  Edna  Coray,  Organist 
RELIEF   SOCIETY   MAGAZINE 
Editor       ..........        Clarissa   Smith  Williams 
Associate   Editor  -        -   
Alice  Louise   Reynolds 
Business     Manager  ........        Jeanette    A.     Hyde 
Assistant    Manager   
Amy    Brown    Lyman 
Room  29,  Bishop's  Buiding,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Vol.  XI  JUNE,  1924  No.  6 
President  Williams'  Birthday 
April  21  marked  the  anniversary  of  President  Williams' 
birth.  The  Magazine  extends  to  her  hearty  felicitations,  and  trusts 
that  there  will  be  many  returns  of  her  birthday  anniversary. 
THE  HOTEL  UTAH  BANQUET 
The  banquet  and  reception  tendered  by  the  stake  and  mission 
presidents  to  the  members  of  the  General  Board  on  the  evening  of 
April  3,  1924,  proved  satisfactory  and  enjoyable  in  every  respect. 
Chairman,  Myrtle  B.  Shurtliff,  president  of  Liberty  stake,  and  the 
committee  of  Salt  Lake  City  stake  presidents  that  worked  with  her, 
must  be  highly  gratified  at  the  results  of  their  far-seeing  and 
capable  planning. 
The  members  of  the  General  Board  stood  in  line  on  the 
Mezzanine  floor  of  the  Hotel  Utah  from  7:15  p.  m.  until  the  hour 
of  the  banquet.  Each  member  received  from  the  committee,  a 
beautiful  bouquet  of  flowers  that  so  greatly  enhanced  her  appear- 
ance that  a  member  of  a  stake  Board,  who  saw  them  pass  into  the 
banquet  room  remarked  that  it  looked  like  a  bridal  procession. 
The  tables  were  lavishly  decorated  with  gold  and  white 
flowers,  carrying  out  the  Relief  Society  colors.  The  place  cards, 
particularly  attractive,  were  small  white  cards  bearing  on  their 
face,  in  gold  letters,  not  only  the  name  of  the  individual  designed 
to  occupy  the  place,  but  a  monogram  of  the  National  Women's

324  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Relief  Society,  and  under  it  the  Relief  Society  motto,  Chanty 
Never-Faileth;  also  the  date,  Hotel  Utah,  April  3,  1924. 
The  printed  programs  are  in  keeping  with  trie  place  cards. 
The  outside  cover  bears  these  words,  "National  Women's  Relief 
Society,  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  Banquet 
and  Reception,  Complimentary  to  the  Officers  and  Members  of 
the  General  Board,  given  by  the  Relief  Society  Stake  and  Mis- 
sion Presidents,  Hotel  Utah,  Salt  Lake  City,  Thursday,  April 
Third,  Nineteen  Hundred  Twenty-four."  On  the  first  page  is 
a  photograph  of  President  Clarissa  Smith  Williams.  This  is 
followed  by  a  well  chosen  menu.  On  the  opposite  side  is  the 
program  of  music  and  toasts.  The  next  page  contains  the  names 
of  officers  and  members  of  the  General  Board  and  names  of  the 
committee  on  arrangements  consisting  of  the  presidents  of 
Liberty,  Granite,  Ensign,  Salt  Lake,  and  Pioneer  stakes.  The 
ipage  following  bears  the  names  of  stake  presidents,  ninety  in 
number,  and  the  last  page  contains  the  names  of  the  sixteen  mis- 
sion presidents. 
The  musical  features  of  the  program  were  highly  attractive. 
The  Ladies  Quartette  from  the  University  of  Utah,  in  its  select 
numbers,  was  very  much  appreciated,  the  quality  and  the  blending 
of  the  voices  being  particularly  pleasing.  The  artistic  rendition 
of  the  numbers  of  Miss  Margaret  Summerhays  will  last  in  the 
memory  of  those  who  listened  to  her,  for  a  long  time.  Mrs.  Elsie 
B.  Alder,  in  her  new  ro!e  as  toastmistress,  was  pleasing  and 
entertaining  in  her  introductions,  interspersed  as  they  were  with 
snatches  of  humor,  sometimes  couched  in  verse  and  sometimes 
in  story.  Mrs.  Laura  J.  Adamson,  president  of  Blaine  stake, 
responded  to  the  toast  Our  President;  Mrs.  Katherine  Romney 
Stewart,  president  of  Los  Angeles  stake,  The  General  Board; 
Mrs.  Evelyn  Lyman,  president  of  Union  stake,  Stakes  and  Mis- 
takes; and  Mrs.  Amy  Brown  Lyman,  A  Vision  of  the  Future. 
We  had  hoped  to  include  the  toasts  in  this  issue  of  the 
Magazine,  but  we  are  not  in  possession  of  a  sufficient  number 
at  this  writing  to  do  so.  Grace  was  offered  by  Counselor  Louise 
Y.  Robison,  and  President  Clarissa  Smith  Williams  made  a 
response  after  the  toast,  Our  President.  Counselor  Jennie  B. 
Knight's  response  followed  the  toast  on  behalf  of  the  General 
Board.  Both  President  Williams  and  Counselor  Jennie  B.  Knight 
expressed  appreciation  for  the  entertainment  of  the  evening,  so 
effective  in  the  perfection  of  its  details,  and  so  kindly  provided 
by  the  stake  and  mission  presidents  of  the  Relief  Society.