[Vol11 | June 1924 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Vital Statistics and Maternity Welfare]

VITAL STATISTICS AND MATERNITY WELFARE By Dr. T. B. Beatty, State Health Commissioner of Utah
Dr. T. B. Beatty, in his discussion of "Vital Statistics," stated that prior to 1905 there was no provision in the State of Utah for the registration of births and deaths. In 1905 a model law was passed. This law has stood the test of time, and is now being adopted as a uniform law all over the United States. It provides that there shall be appointed in the state,


in every voting precinct, a local registrar whose duty it is to register births and deaths. The original certificate is sent to the State Board of Health, where it is filed and indexed in such a way that information may be furnished readily regarding any birth. The same is true of death registration. There are now filed in the vaults of the State Board of Health at the Capitol, the original certificates covering the births of 200,000 children who have been born since 1905; also the certificates covering the deaths of nearly all the people who have died since that year. Utah now has recognition in the Census Bureau as a registration state.
When this recognition was granted in 1917, a representative of the Census Bureau who came to Utah found that the State Board of Health had the most complete record of birth certificates in the United States. All states do not have provision for birth registration of babies, but do have provision for registration in the case of calves and pigs. In connection with this statement, Dr. Beatty told the story of a very important case which was brought up for settlement. The son of a wealthy man tried to cheat his own daughter of the estate which had been left to her. The settlement of the case hinged on establishing the birth of the daughter, and since there was no provision for birth registration in that state, no record had been made. Finally some one remembered that there was born on the farm of this man on the same day the child was born, a calf, and the calf was registered, and thus the child's birth was established.
Requests are constantly coming to the State Board of Health for copies of birth certificates, in order that passports may be secured. During the war it was pathetic to see the effort made to secure copies of birth certificates which did not exist.
The value of birth registration is set forth in the following eleven reasons:
1. That the birth, date of birth, parentage and other essential information for governmental and identification purposes may be made a matter of official record.
2. That the ages of school children may be definitely known, making the proper enforcement of school laws possible.
3. That the laws affecting child labor may be enforced and the children of the poor thereby protected.
4. That labor may become safer by the elimination of children under legal age from all hazardous occupations.
5. That the law-abiding employers of youth may be protected.
6. That prosecution dealing with "age of consent" may be settled by record and not by conjecture.
7. That litigation in matters of inheritance and settlement
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 277
of estates may be simplified by the definite knowledge of the ages of all persons concerned. 8. That the American-born children of foreign-born parents may have indisputable evidence of American birth which will protect them from enforced military service when visiting the mother country of the parents. 9. That blindness may be prevented by prompt medical attention to the infected eyes of the new-born. 10. That infection and mortality among women may be prevented, and that young babies may be saved by immediate attention by existing agencies for the relief of the poor. 11. That the Bureau of Child Hygiene may carry out its duties efficiently.
Registration of deaths is also an important factor in the promotion of the health program of the state. Health officials work blindly unless they know where people are dying and from what causes. Registration of deaths enables us to determine how many deaths occur from preventable causes. It is the melancholy duty of the state health commissioner to scan the death certificates, and note the number of persons that ought not to be dead. A year ago the commissioner might have reported that he could not give the names of the fifteen hundred people who would die in the state in the next year of preventable diseases, but the names are available now.
Registration shows that typhoid fever and measles kill more children than scarlet fever and diphtheria; that twenty-five percent of infants die before they are a month old; that twenty percent of the entire death rate is among children under one year of age. A more strict observance of quarantine regulations would aid materially in lowering the death rate among children from contagious diseases.
Utah has the highest birth rate in the United States, which is over thirty children to each thousand of the population. The birth rate of the United States, outside of Utah, does not exceed twenty-four. Where there is a high birth rate there is usually a high death rate also. This is not the case in Utah; on the contrary, the death rate here is one of the lowest in the United States. This is an evidence of the good care which the children within the state are receiving.
Reasons for registration of deaths are given as follows:
1. That there may be available, complete and accurate information as to deaths of all human beings, with dates of death and causes of death, to the end that preventable causes of death may be eliminated and human lives lengthened.
2. That the various public health agencies—national, state and municipal—and the various private agencies for the preven-


tion of diseases may know the number of deaths that occur and thereby may operate intelligently. 3. That these agencies may determine what part of our mortality is preventable and when and where preventable deaths occur. 4. That pestilential and epidemic diseases may be detected promptly. 5. That we may apply our remarkable scientific knowledge of disease prevention intelligently at the time and in the place where such application is most needed. 6. That the success or failure of all measures attempted in the prevention of disease may be accurately determined. 7. That individual cities and localities may learn their own health condition by comparison with the conditions of other communities and determine thereby the wise course of public health activity. 8. That home-seekers and immigrants may be guided in the selection of safe and healthful homes by accurate information rather than by misstatements of interested persons. 9. That life insurance companies may be enabled to engage intelligently in movements to protect their policy holders from death and suffering due to preventable diseases and accidents. 10. That the settlement of estates and matters of inheritance, pensions, etc., may be definitely settled by official record of death instead of on the memory of interested witnesses.
Dr. Beatty made an earnest appeal for the cooperation of the people in the registration of vital statistics. He urged the delegates at the meeting to seek to interest the women of the Relief Society in this matter. Parents should know how important it is to have children's births registered, and should see that the doctor sends in the birth certificates.
The work of the Utah State Board of Health in the interest of maternity and child welfare was spoken of by Dr. Beatty. During the past twelve years, upon receipt of every birth certificate, a booklet of rules for the feeding and care of infants has been sent to every mother. The infant rate has been greatly reduced since 1910, but it can be further reduced.
The correction of defects in children is a very important matter. Infected tonsils and adenoids, if uncorrected, lead to disease, and are a menace to the child's whole future life and efficiency. A Child Hygiene Bureau has been created, with one nurse on the staff, and with the aid of the government a traveling clinic secured. This clinic went throughout the state, with the idea of educating the people to the need of giving attention to the correction of defects.
Then came the Sheppard-Towner law, enacted at the behest of the women of the country; and it is to
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 279
their credit that they thus served notice on men who think in terms of livestock and rivers and transportation measures, that the time had come when some money must be spent for the welfare of the babies of the country. The pro rata allotment from the government to the State of Utah is $8,000, which is matched by $8,000 appropriated by the state of Utah at the last legislature, largely through the efforts of Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman and others who worked hard to get this appropriation. In addition to this $16,000 provided by the government and the state, $5,000 is given outright by the government, making a total of $21,000.
The Sheppard-Towner work was actively begun in Utah last August, and since that time fifty-five health clinics have been held, and many health centers established. More than two thousand children have been carefully examined at these clinics, and over eight thousand defects have been found in the children examined—defects which, if not corrected, would lead to permanent deformity and inefficiency and early death. The money which is available through the Sheppard-Towner act is for educational purposes and is not available for use in the local health centers.
Dr. Beatty stated that letters are sent monthly by the State Board of Health to expectant mothers, which aim to give the women the information they need. These letters are available for all expectant mothers in the state, and will be sent free of charge upon application to the State Board of Health. In order to be of the most possible benefit, requests for these letters should state the month of pregnancy of the woman to whom they are to be mailed, so that the expectant mother will receive the information she desires at the time when it will be most helpful to her.
Following Dr. Beatty's address, there was a discussion of maternity welfare work lead by President Williams. The following items were taken from reports by stake representatives who contributed to the discussion:
Mrs. Fanny C. Harper, president of the Juarez stake Relief Society, compared conditions in Mexico, with regard to maternity care, to those conditions which existed in the early days in Utah. In some localities doctors may be had, but in many communities the women are entirely dependent upon midwives. They are fortunate, however, in having a very efficient midwife. The Relief Society women in this stake have carried out the recommendations of the General Board with regard to the establishment of maternity bundles in the various wards, which are a great benefit to the women there.


Mrs. Bessie G. Hale, president of Boise stake, reported that the Relief Society women in Idaho are cooperating with the state health officials as much as possible. The work of the Child Hygiene Bureau of this state is carried on chiefly in the outlying communities of the state.
Mrs. Lily B. Gledhill, president of the Sevier stake, told of the health center at Richfield, which is well equipped and maintained by five wards. This center is open on the second Thursday of every month. The stake presidency have given the Relief Society a room in the tithing building, where the clinics are held. The doctors of the community gladly take turns in being in attendance at the clinics and in examining the mothers and children. The women's clubs, Red Cross, Relief Society, and other agencies, work together to finance the center.
In the Cottonwood stake a clinic was established a year before the administration of the Sheppard-Towner act was begun, and this clinic was one of the first to cooperate with the State Board of Health. It has been financed entirely by the Relief Society of the stake. The clinic is held weekly every Thursday, from ten to twelve in the morning, and one or two graduate nurses are in attendance. Mrs. Evelyn Lyman, president of the Union stake, reported
that all the wards of the stake are following the recommendations
of the General Board with regard) to establishing maternity
chests, and in addition to this work, it is planned now to build a
maternity hospital, which it is hoped will be finished by fall.
The stake presidency are assisting the Relief Society in this
movement ; they have helped to secure the land for the building,
and will ask for a donation from each family in the stake. A
great deal of interest has been aroused in this proposed maternity
hospital, with the result that the Relief Society has the cooperation
of t he doctors, nurses and business men, who feel
that the hospital will be a great benefit to the people in Oregon.
Some of the doctors have stated that when the hospital is in
operation, they will be glad to give their services gratis to any
who are unable to pay for care, upon the recommendation of the
Relief Society. It is planned to have a clinic included in the
hospital.
President Williams commended the Union stake Relief
Society for this worthy undertaking, and expressed the hope
that other stakes would follow suit to the extent at least of
establishing one or two or three maternity beds in the yarious
communities.
Beginnings in maternity welfare work in the Northwestern States mission were reported by Mrs. Marie Young, president
of the Relief Societies of this mission. The Sheppard-Towner
act has been functioning in Oregon for the past year and a
half. The State Board of Health mails a monthly letter to
expectant mothers. When birth certificates are sent to the Board
of Health, each mother receives a certificate and a letter, and
thereafter a letter is sent monthly for two years, containing information
with regard to the care of the baby.
Mrs. Myrtle B. Shurtliff, president of the Liberty stake,
spoke of the necessity of establishing a maternity cottage in the
city. The need in Salt Lake City is not for institutions where
mothers may receive proper care during confinement, but for
institutions where mothers may receive proper care at more
reasonable rates than those prevailing here at the present time.
The dependent people of the city may receive care at the County
Hospital; the wealthy people can afford the care provided at
the local hospitals; but there are many middle class people
who are unable to afford proper maternity care at the present
rates. It has been found that the average cost of proper maternity
care is $200, which is more than the average person can
afford. She .spoke of a plan which has been operating successfully
in California, at the Maternity Cottage, where maternity
cases are cared for twelve days at a cost of approximately $29,
plus the fees of the doctor. The Liberty stake is now planning
for a loan chest.
Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor, president of the Relief Societies
of the Northern States mission, won the applause from the Relief
Society women assembled when she made a plea for instructions
in mothercraft to be given to young girls, in connection with
maternity welfare work. Girls should not only know how to cook
and sew, and something of algebra and history, but they should
also have some knowledge of the wonderful mission of creation
which has been entrusted to them. Mrs. Taylor spoke of the
classes which she formerly conducted at the L. D. S. University,
where girls were instructed in mothercraft, and where, in addition,
the girls were taught to make layettes in the sewing classes
of the school. They took much more interest in making these
baby clothes than in making clothing for themselves.
LEADERSHIP IN THE STAKE
Counselor Jennie B. Knight
Mrs. Jennie B. Knight began her discussion of "Leadership
in the Stake" by saying, "A leader in any community is
one who has intelligent understanding of the work that is to be done, and is loyal and persistent in carrying out this work. A
leader in Relief Society work must carry out the policies of
the organization, and have vision of the work that is before her.
Broad fields of vision will be opened during the sessions of the
Relief Society conference, which will be a guide to our future
work. Those among us who catch the vision and are able to
make it practical in our work, will be the successful leaders."
One of the first requirements for a Relief Society leader
is to have within her heart a testimony of the gospel, and a
feeling that she has been called to her position through the Spirit
of the Lord directing those who are in authority. Relief Society
leaders, in their various callings, are representatives of the Lord,
representatives of the stake priesthood president, representatives
of the stake Relief Society president, and stand as proxies for the
General Board in carrying the instructions of the board in all
the communities where branches of the organization exist. Mrs.
Knight asked her hearers to study the gospel and live the gospel
in order that they might teach it more effectively. "If we have
these three qualifications: that we know the gospel, teach the
gospel, and live the gospel, then we are truly leaders."
Mrs. Knight urged the stake leaders to be observant of the
activities of other stakes, and to take advantage of the reports
and suggestions which are offered through the columns of the
Magazine in the "Notes From the Field" department. Stake
leaders should be receptive to all good and progressive ideas
in order that they may be able to better conditions in their stakes.
They should read magazines and text books relative to the lessons
which are outlined, and relative to the various phases of Relief
Society work. Stake leaders should know not only the details of
stake work, but of ward work as well. They should know whether
the charity work is being looked after in the most efficient manner,
whether the literary work is being received as it should be whether
the work and business meetings are being conducted in a satisfactory
way, and whether the teachers* work is proving beneficial,
both to the teachers and to those whom they visit.
The speaker emphasized the importance of careful planning
for Relief Society meetings, conferences, and conventions. Regular
stake board meetings should be held, in order that activities
of the stake may be well planned, and in order that instructions
from the General Board may be made known as soon as possible
after their receipt, and arrangements made for carrying out the
instructions in the various wards of the stake. The preparation
for group conventions should receive serious consideration. Upon
receiving notification of the date and program of the meetings
of the convention, the Relief Society stake president should first
consult her stake president, and acquaint him with the plan for the meetings, and then make arrangements for the rooms for
the use of the Relief Society. Then the details of the arrangements
should be very carefully worked out, so that when the women
arrive at the convention, their time will not be wasted by having
to go considerable distance for their department work, or by
having to wait while chairs are brought in from other rooms.
Mrs. Knight stressed the importance of Relief Society stake
officers cooperating with the stake presidency, and ward officers
cooperating with the bishops, which will insure the help and support
of the priesthood authorities in the plans and activities of
the organization.
Afternoon Session
ANNUAL REPORT PRESENTED
The annual report was presented by the general secretary,
Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, and the comparisons with reports of
other years showed growth and development in all departments
of the Relief Society. This report is published in full in the
May issue of the Magazine. Mrs. Lyman expressed appreciation
for the splendid and efficient work done by the stake secretaries in
compiling and forwarding the stake reports, many of which were
perfectly compiled.
The major part of the time of the afternoon session was
devoted to a consideration of "Educational Work in the Relief
Society." Topics under this subject were treated by members
of the General Board in the order in which they follow.
THE STAKE CLASS SUPERVISOR
Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, Member of General Board
First of all, a supervisor should have the spirit of her work.
Secondly, she should have time for her work, and should be
willing to make the necessary preparation for it. Stake supervisors,
whether class supervisors or activity supervisors, should
consult often with the Relief Society stake president. By consultation
needless confusion and misunderstanding is prevented.
That which a supervisor might feel would be worthy of special
mention, might not be the thing that the president would emphasize.
Therefore, free consultation with the president concerning
the work which has been given for supervision will prevent misunderstandings.
It is the duty of the stake class supervisor to be well prepared
with her lessons. In most stakes there is a supervisor for each
course of study and there is therefore no reason for unpreparedness.,
The supervisor can be of great help to ward class leaders by giving the lessons in union meetings, by furnishing apt and
interesting references, and by visiting the ward classes as a means
of checking up the work and surveying the special needs in each
ward class. A great .satisfaction in the Relief Society class work
is the knowledge that in every branch in the Church, on a given
day, the same lesson is being given. This is a great inspiration
to every one concerned. Uniform study, unified effort in activities,
and a spirit of love, make for progress and development.
The General Board has asked that in the wards a few minutes'
time of the work and business meeting be used for a discussion
of t he teachers' topic, and it would be a good plan for
stake workers to see if this is being carried out.
THE WARD CLASS LEADER
Counselor Louise Y. Robison
In our great organization there are many offices and positions
that need specialized workers. We have been too apt in
the past to ask people whom we knew were dependable and
faithful to fill offices regardless of their other qualifications, and
oftentimes these people have not been the ones who would make
those offices the strongest. In our work in the Relief Society it
is necessary to have the president, counselors, secretary, and other
officers, and class leaders, and necessary that all should have the
same spirit, but there should be and is a diversity of gifts among
them, and there are diversified needs in the work. One of the
most important workers in the organization is the class leader,
who should be a person having special qualifications.
All ward presidents realize that they need class leaders to
begin work in the fall of the year, but if they have not given this
matter any thought and attention prior to this time, they will
be at a loss to secure the right kind of women to act in this capacity.
Officers should be alert and keep their eyes open for
good material. They will often discover college girls and school
teachers who have not become affiliated with any organization,
but who would make very capable class leaders in the organization,
ift hey were invited to take up the work.
There are several qualifications for the ideal class leader.
First would be her spirituality, which is fundamental; secondly,
her dependability, for if a class leader is not dependable, if she
is not prepared or is often absent, how can the officers enthusiastically
urge good attendance; thirdly, a teacher should know
her subject; fourthly, a class teacher should have a sympathetic
understanding of the people with whom she is working, and adapt
the lesson to the class, by modifying or simplifying the lesson
where necessary.
I think the class leader can lead her group very much as the
captain in the army leads the men. They must be close enough
to him to hear what he says, and to know his motives and desires.
If the leader should be ,so far in advance of the men that they
could not hear his commands, they would become confused, and
I think that is the case in many of our groups. If some one were
to talk to me on some scientific subject of which I know nothing,
I should probably be thinking of how I could make over one of
the children's dresses, or paper a room, because I would not know
what he was talking about. I remember at a ward conference one
day, a sister past middle age, evidently not a college woman, gave
me help and inspiration because she made the Scriptures a part
of me, and made me want to respond to the lesson that she gave
on the Scriptures. Her sympathetic appreciation of her audience
was her strong point. So that a class leader must have a knowledge
of the gospel, and she must have dependability; but these
are not enough. She must have the facts of the lesson, but that
is not sufficient. She must have enough tact to convert the lesson
into a personal message to each woman.
On the other hand, class teachers, after they have prepared
their lessons, which often takes hours of research and study, are
entitled to some consideration from the officers and from the
class. If the president allows any kind of program or announcements
or plans for bazaars, etc., to encroach on the allotted time
of the teacher, who has made such extensive preparation, the
teacher will become discouraged. I recently attended a meeting
where they were planning for a ward bazaar. The class leader
had come fully prepared with the lesson, and when the committee
work was finished, which should have been done in separate committee
meetings, this class leader had ten minutes to present the
lesson. Also the class leaders would be greatly encouraged if all
officers and members would always come prepared. The annual
report shows that many of the officers are not subscribers to the
Magazine. This probably accounts for the condition in some of
the wards where the officers apparently know nothing of the lesson,
and contribute nothing to the recitation. When one has work
to do, tools are necessary. Certainly the Magazine, with its lessons,
is t he important tool for the officers and members of the Relief Society.
