PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT
I do not believe that there is another organization in the world with as few members as we have in the Mormon Church that can begin to furnish a body of workers in a conference that will compare with this gathering. I am very proud indeed of the wonderful labor that has been accomplished by our Relief Societies throughout the Church. As a little child I attended a great many Relief Society meetings, because in my childhood days my mother was the president of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, a position she occupied for some thirty-odd years. Being her only child, and she having no one to leave me with, I attended Relief Society meeting when I was not old enough to understand what was going on. I have often remarked in a rather jocular way that I felt I was entitled to be counted as a charter member of the Relief Societies in Salt Lake City, as I believe I had attended in my childhood and young youth as many meetings as the regular members. After I was made one of the apostles, I learned of a very remarkable Relief Society meeting which I

converted and made a contribution, Then a temple was built and the man was converted to paying a donation for this purpose. Then an academy was built, and he complained again about contributing, but was finally converted. As time went on his boy graduated with honor, and the bishop came to him and told the man how he had been prospered and blessed since he had been here, and told him they wanted his boy to go on a mission, which would cost him $25 or $30 a month. The man said, "That settles it; I paid fast donations, tithing, donations for meetinghouses, temples, academies, etc., but I am not going to pay to send the boy on a mission. If the Church wants him they can simply pay his expenses. I expected that boy to make me $75 or $100 a month, to help refund some of the money I have spent to educate him. I am willing to give his services, but I won't give a dollar to send him on a mission. The Church can take it out of the tithing or he can stay home." The bishop explained that the Church would bring the boy home after his mission was completed, but that was the extent of the assistance the Church could give. The man said, then the boy must stay home. The bishop dropped the subject and commenced talking on other things, and the conversation went back to Scandinavia, and reference was made to the time the man left that country and came here. Finally, when the bishop got the man's mind entirely away from the boy's mission and everything of that nature, he said, "By the way, brother, whom do you love more than anybody else in all the wide world, except only your own family?" The man said, "Why, bishop, I love the man that came to me in the land of the midnight sun, and brought to me the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the plan of life and salvation. Why, I love that man beyond my power to express it." Then, said the bishop, "Would you not like somebody to love your boy just like you love that man?" The man said, "Bishop, you have licked me fair and square; the boy can go on a mission."
The Lord doesn't need your fast donations, and the tithing, but you need these things; you need to do them; I need to do them. The Lord knows what kind of material we are made of, and the necessity of our overcoming the weaknesses of the flesh. It is just as natural as it is to breathe to get on our tip-toes and get all we can and pull it in and hold it tight. It takes the gospel to reverse the situation, and to open our hearts and minds and to teach us to give and learn the lesson that it is more blessed to give than to receive. It requires the gospel to teach us the lesson that has been given here today by Sister Knight, the lesson of charity. I learned it but I learned it rather severely. A man was excommunicated from the Church by the apostles; later he repented
and asked to be baptized into the Church again. President John Taylor wrote a letter to the quorum of the Twelve, saying that this man could not be received into the Church again unless every man in the quorum gave permission. If one man objected, the man could not be baptized and the president asked every man to vote the conviction of his heart, and not to vote because the others did, for the baptism. The case was considered and it was put to a vote, and there were five for baptism and seven against. Some months later the question came up again, and there were seven for baptism and five against. Later, there were three against baptism and nine in favor of it. A year or more rolled along, and finally there were two against and ten for baptism; finally eleven were for baptism and one against, and I was that one. Brother Taylor said to me, "How will you feel when you meet that man in the Great Beyond and he says, 'I repented and you were not willing for me to be baptized?'" I said, "I will feel fine. I will look him in the eye and say that a man who brought disgrace upon the Church as he did, should not come back into the Church; he could die out of the Church." President Taylor said, "If that is the conviction of your heart, stay with it." I said, "I am going to stay with it. Your letter said that I should vote the conviction of my heart and I am voting it. If you want me to vote with the other eleven, I will do it. But he said, "Stay with your conviction." After going home that day I was reading in the Doctrine and Covenants, and opened the book to a passage quoted here today, "I the Lord will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men." I shut the book and said, "If the devil comes around and asks for baptism, he will get it as far as I am concerned." After lunch I called at the president's office and said, "That brother can be baptized; I have had a change of heart." Brother Taylor laughed and remarked that it was a very sudden change, and asked what had changed me. I told him. He said, "My boy, I wrote that letter for your benefit and for the benefit of my son. I realized that youth stands out for justice as against mercy, generally. You asked me to tell you to unite with the others and you would do it. Now, I want to ask you two questions: How did you feel when you left the office two hours ago, that you would like to hit that man between the eyes for the disgrace he had brought to the Church?" "Yes, that is the way I did feel," I answered. "How do you feel now?" asked the president. I said, "I hope and pray that the old sinner can be forgiven." He answered, "You feel happy now, in comparison to the feeling you had two hours ago. Now you have been converted. If I had told you to vote you would never have had that impression of that conversion in your own heart. Don't forget that mercy and for-

giveness are just as much a part of the gospel as justice is." He told me never to forget that lesson and I never have. I thought I was standing out for the right, but sometimes it is better to surrender even the right, in mercy, than it is to stand out and demand the pound of flesh.
May the Lord bless the officers of this organization, one and all, from the General Board down to the least of these officers. May peace be upon them. May the sweet spirit of the Lord abide in the homes of all the Latter-day Saint sisters.
COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON
We have had a wonderful conference, and I feel that everyone of us must be grateful to our Father in heaven for his Spirit that has been with us. It depends upon how much of this Spirit we carry into our homes, how well our lessons have been taught here. It is a beautiful thing for us to uphold the principles of the gospel. It is a beautiful thing for us to feel that we are not bringing disgrace upon the Church. About six weeks or two months ago, I had the privilege of attending a gathering of women where Sister Grant spoke and she was telling about her experience of having the privilege of meeting President Harding when he was here last summer, and she said, "I was very happy that I could meet President Harding and his party, because I felt that I represented the women of this Church. I am a representative woman." If each one of us could have the feeling in our hearts, that each could be a representative woman of this Church and state, what a wonderful record we would strive to make. I think most of us have read how much the state and cities and the people of Utah are doing in a public way to place the people of Utah and the state of Utah in good repute before the world; a great deal of money is being spent for this purpose, but I feel that much depends upon us in our homes here, if we are to be representative women of the Church and state, The success of this campaign for good Utah before the people depends in a measure upon how we represent our Church and State. In traveling up and down this country as a representative of the Relief Society, I have found many of the richest, sweetest spirits that ever lived, and I have been proud to feel that they were representative women of the Church. But on the other hand we have found people who have brought disgrace, in their small way, upon the Church. When tourists are passing through our communities, I wonder if we always try to make them feel that we are Christian people, or do we make them feel that we have
the love of money in our hearts so much that we will try to take advantage of every little opportunity. Two years ago I was at Duchesne at a convention and the sister who entertained me in her home lived close to the meeting house. Right by the side of the meetinghouse was a nice, grassy square, and campers were there. On the Saturday night of our convention, just as we were having our evening meal, a woman came to the door to ask if she could buy a loaf of bread. My hostess said, "I have not baked yet, but I have bread in the oven. How many are there in your party?" The woman answered that there were her husband and herself. My hostess handed her a plate of hot biscuits, saying, "We have enough biscuits for you and you are welcome to them." The woman offered to pay but this was refused by the lady of the house. The woman came back that night and said, "I have traveled across the continent, and I want you to know that I have not had such treatment before. This is my first stop in Utah." That was a very small thing but it was genuine hospitality and it made an impression on this traveler. The woman came in the next morning, and visited with us, and wished that she could come to our conference. I explained to her about the Relief Society and its work, She was greatly interested in our activities. Everyone we meet is interested in people who are in the services of the people. Then I mentioned the missionaries and she said, "I hope to meet your missionaries sometime in the field."
Sister Knight said while she and Sisters Lyman and Fox were in Washington last summer that they were being entertained and driven out to some points of interest, and when the hostess learned that they were from Utah, she said, "Come and ride in my car; I was entertained so royally when I was in Utah that I feel honored now to entertain Utah women." This is what is meant by being representative women of Utah, because we have always had the name of being hospitable. But there are other things that we meet when we are traveling. When you go to a home in the country and ask for milk or bread, and you are told that milk is 15¢ a quart (5c more than is charged in Salt Lake, although the streets are full of cows) and that bread is 20c a loaf, you wonder what is the matter and you carry away a bad impression of that community. I remember one time I was traveling through Afton, Wyoming, and I took a milk bottle into a house and had it filled. I offered the woman a dime and she said that it wasn't worth 10c to anybody. I always feel friendly toward Afton, Wyoming. Some of my people were held up there once on account of a mud slide, and they think it is a miserable place, but nobody can make me think that.
If we can be hospitable in our homes and

in our communities, and live up to the standards and ideals of the Church and the state, we can truly be called representative women. May we realize what a blessed privilege it is to be representative women in Zion, and may we bring honor to our Church and state, and honor to ourselves.
BISHOP JOHN WELLS
I am here representing Bishop Charles W. Nibley, the presiding bishop of the Church. He had another important engagement and asked me to substitute for him. I feel I am a poor substitute for that gifted man, but nevertheless, as a member of the Bishopric, I am glad to be here this afternoon to address this great body of women so closely connected with all of the bishoprics of the Church. I have been very much interested this afternoon in these proceedings, in the dignified and excellent program, and in the remarks of President Grant and others who have spoken.
One of President Grant's remarks brought this thought to me: What would be the progress of this Church today if the Relief Societies had not been founded? Where would we be? There would not be the close sympathy and friendship, the thoughtfulness and care for the poor, nor the sweet, mutual helpfulness that has grown up into the family life of the Latter-day Saints. No one can ever measure by figures or facts the great work that has been accomplished by this organization.
The Presiding Bishopric feel it an honor to work with the Relief Society, and wish to help forward the work all we possibly can. Through weekly meetings, and other meetings as occasions arise, between the Presiding Bishopric and the Relief Society executive committee we outline plans and discuss problems.
The aim and purpose of this is that the Relief Societies
may labor in harmony with the Priesthood and the bishops, who
are proud of the privilege and opportunity of helping in this
great work.
I was very much impressed, in looking at the records of the
Church which have just been completed, to find that the death
rate of this Church has fallen down to 72 per thousand. Naturally,
Il ooked for the cause. The old age group that died of
natural causes had not fallen off, and all down the line I went
until I came to children at five years of age, and then children
one month, from one month to one year, and from one year to
two. There has been a decrease in the death rate among these
children and while there has been a normal growth of the birth
rate in the Church, all the figures which showed the falling off
in the death rate were among children under five years of age.
It means that 500 children, who according to the normal death rate would have died, are living today, because of better methods
of care, of feeding, and better care at birth. I am proud of the
labors of this great body of women who understand normal conditions
of s anitation and health, and if you have done no more
than save one child you have done well, for no mathematician can
give you the potential value of that one child. Our hearts rejoice
that five hundred children have been saved during the last year.
A movement has been suggested which has the hearty approval
of Bishop Nibley, that in certain stakes of Zion there
might be employed and financed possibly by the Church, gifted
workers who will help the community to better itself, both in the
care of human beings which is our great duty, and in all other
methods and ways. We are hoping this thought will develop so
that in many stakes of Zion gifted, earnest women, trained in the
best methods of social service, will be able to give help to you.
It is a wonderful work to care for the poor, the sick, and the
feeble, and to improve conditions of life, and to work for the
conservation of human life, and no effort is too great for that.
As a Presiding Bishopric, we are very much in favor of the
improved methods of caring for the poor. We agree heartily
with the General Board and its officers that about the worst thing
we can do is to dole out money. We are urging our bishoprics
everywhere to discontinue that habit, and to co-operate with the
Relief Society presidents, and form an organization for the purpose
of following the best methods of caring for the poor. We
are glad to see this constructive work develop. We also are glad
to see that the old habit is still in force of the visiting teachers of
the Relief Society going to the homes. There is something far
more valuable in the visit than in the collecting of a few cents.
The value of the visits of these thousands of teachers into the
homes of the Latter-day Saints, carrying comfort and cheer and
helpfulness, carrying advice and counsel and sympathy, can never
be measured.
I only wish that out of the 87,000 families in this Church,
instead of 55,973 persons being enrolled in the Relief Societies,
there were 87,000. All the people in my opinion need the lessons
outlined in the Relief Society Magazine, especially our young
mothers and young married people. There is something to be
done to encourage this bright, intelligent class of young women
to enroll in the Relief Society and partake of these lessons pertaining
to t he fundamentals of life and religion.
A great work you are doing — a wonderful work; no one
appreciates it more than the Presiding Bishopric. I pray that
the Lord may bless you with the spirit of it, and spur you on to
higher ideals, and give you the intelligence to apply the very
best methods to carry out your work. STAKE PRESIDENTS' MEETING
Monday morning, April 7, the stake and mission presidents
of the Relief Society met at Relief Society headquarters to receive
special instructions and to bear testimony. After instructions by
President Williams, reports were given and testimonies borne by
Mrs. Jane W. Bates, President Alberta stake; Mrs. Fanny C.
Harper, President of Juarez stake ; and Mrs. Florence M. Knight,
President of the Relief Societies of the Western States mission.
Questions which had been handed in during the conference
were answered by President Williams as follows :
Steel Granaries: In all probability there will be no use for
the steel granaries in the future, at least for some time to come,
and therefore ward presidents of Societies that own such
granaries should consult with their bishops regarding the advisability
of selling them. The stake and ward officers are conversant
with local conditions, and they can best decide what
course to follow with regard to disposing of granaries.
Conferences and Conventions : In many of the stakes, group
conventions are held annually, but wherever desired, an additional
stake conference may be held. Visitors from the General
Board will be in attendance at all group conventions and at the
one official Relief Society conference held each year in those
stakes where group conventions are not held. A ward Relief
Society conference should be held every year in every ward.
i
General Conference Delegates: Should the stake president
attend general Relief Society conference each time, or should
she give each of her counselors a turn to represent the stake Relief
Society at the conference?
The president of the organization should attend the official
(April) conference. It is a good thing to divide honors and
privileges with the counselors and secretary; but the president,
who is at the head of the stake organization, should, if possible,
attend the official conference. Some presidents give each of the
counselors and the secretary a turn in attending conference, and
come themselves, as well. The General Board is always glad to
see as many of the stake officers in attendance as is possible.
Summer Meetings: For many years the Relief Society has
suggested that where the stakes wish to do so, they may adjourn
their meetings during July and August, but this is not obligatory.
Requests have come to the general office for programs for summer
work, and the General Board has had under advisement the
matter of preparing such programs, but it has been decided that it would be best for the stakes themselves to plan their own summer
work, so that each might follow whatever plan is felt will be
of the most benefit in the locality.
Preparing Bodies for Burial: Some have asked if the ward
teachers should assist in laying out the dead, or should the president
do all that work. This matter is entirely optional with the
wards. A president who has so many duties to perform should
not be expected to do all this work.
Questions from Wards: All letters to the General Office
from wards, containing questions about local work, are referred
to the stake president of the locality for answer and instruction.
i
Maternity Homes: The General Board does not feel that it
can give any specific advice in regard to maternity homes and
their management from the fact that we might give instructions
which we would think perfectly suitable, but which could not be
carried out at all in your particular districts. But no matter
where a maternity home might be established, a hospital-registered
nurse should be in charge of the work, under the direction
of the stake or ward president, who would be the direct
head.
Visits to Wards by Stake Officers: The announcement
made in the officers' meeting of the conference that stake officers
should not visit wards too frequently, has caused some question
as to just how often stake officers should visit wards. In districts
where the wards are scattered, we are glad if it is possible for the
stake officers to visit the wards at least once a year, and twice
if possible. Some stake presidents are endeavoring to visit the
wards twice a month. Some letters which we have received have
indicated that this is considered too often. Wherever possible,
a very ideal condition would be to visit the wards once a month.
Visit a ward one month on the day when the theology and testimony
meeting is held, the next month on the work and business
meeting day, and so on. You will thus be able to find through
these visits if there are any weaknesses in the work. It is not
advisable for the whole board to visit one ward in a body ; d ivide
the board members and assign them to various wards to visit
on a given day. We do not desire to dictate to you in this regard.
This is only suggestive. The stake presidents must use
their own judgment.
Attendance Records: Some stakes reported that in the summer
months the members of the Society move away from the settlements
to ranches, and are therefore unable to attend Relief Society meetings, which makes a poor attendance record. President
Williams explained that while the Relief Society is interested
in a high attendance record, still we emphasize membership more
than attendance. Many members of the Relief Society are homebound
or bedridden and unable ever to attend the meetings;
many women with small children are unable for long periods of
time to attend meetings; but still they and we value their membership
in t he Relief Society, and desire to have them enrolled.
Legitimate Excuses: The reasons for marking absentees
excused from Relief Society meetings have been confined to sickness
and death. This ruling has been made to avoid having every
absentee marked excused, whether she has good reasons or not
for her absence. There are, of course, other good reasons for
people to absent themselves from the meetings, but these reasons
are hard to define; therefore, in the General Board, and in the
stakes and wards, sickness or death should be the only instances
for marking excused on the roll. Other absences should be
merely marked absent.
Officers Should be Magazine Subscribers'. The annual report
shows that many Relief Society officers and teachers are not
subscribers to the Relief Society Magazine. It is felt that any
woman who is an officer or teacher in the Relief Society should
feel the necessity of having the Magazine, and especially since
the Magazine contains all the lessons, and the teachers' topics.
Stake workers were urged to see that all stake and ward officers
and teachers become subscribers. The price of the Magazine is
only $1 and we are endeavoring to keep this price. Wards should
be encouraged to bind the Magazines for the local Relief Society
library, so that back numbers will always be available for reference,
it is also a good thing for stake boards to have a set of
the bound volumes of the Magazine for reference.
Funds: It is not the work of the Relief Society to raise
funds for missionaries, although in some wards the bishops still
seem to expect this. The Presiding Bishopric have emphasized
the point that the raising of missionary funds is an activity for
the Priesthood, and is not the work of the Relief Society. All
Relief Society funds should be carefully guarded and used for
the purpose for which they were donated. The Presiding Bishopric
have ruled that the funds should not be taken arbitrarily from
any Relief Society. The Presiding Bishopric have sent letters
out to every bishop of the Church, requesting them to see that
the Relief Society wheat money is sent to the Presiding Bishop's
Office to go into the wheat trust fund. Through the importunhave been asked to turn over their wheat funds. It is the duty
of Relief Society stake presidents to keep their stake presidents
advised of the fact that the wheat money is a sacred trust fund,
that it is not to be used for any other purpose, except as is prescribed
by t he General Board and General Authorities, and that
it is expected that where this money has been borrowed that it
will all be returned to the Relief Societies, and placed in the trust
Offufnidc e .w hich is under the jurisdiction of the Presiding Bishop's
Relief Society Halls: The Presiding Bishop's Office has
advised that separate Relief Society ward halls be not built.
Where new chapels are being erected, quarters should be provided
therein for the Relief Society. It is felt that it is a waste
of money to build a hall which would be unoccupied except one
afternoon a week, and that it is far more preferable that all auxiliary
organizations be housed in the ward chapel. When Relief
Societies are assigned a room in a ward chapel, however, they
should not be contented with the darkest room in the basement.
Burial Clothes: Where burial clothes are to be sold there
should be enough profit on the suits so that those doing the
sewing can be paid. Where people are unable to pay for the
sewing, the work should be donated. In providing clothing for
the community, you are called on to provide clothing for those
who can pay as well as for those who cannot pay. People who
can afford to pay for other sewing, should not expect to have
sewing done on burial clothing for nothing.
Quinquennial Meeting — International Council of Women :
In May 1925 a great international congress of women will be held
in Washington, D. C., and all women who are members of any
of the organizations that are affiliated with the National Council
will be expected to help a little in defraying the expenses of the
convention. As Mrs. Lyman stated in the conference, your president
has been appointed by Mrs. Moore, who is president of the
National Council, to act as chairman for the state of Utah. There
are about fifteen of the affiliated organizations represented in
Salt Lake City, and in meetings with them we have found that
in some of the cities of the state, there are a number of branches
of the various organizations. There are the Club women, Women's
Relief Corps, Women of the G. A. R., of the Service Star
Legion, Y. W. C. A., etc. Representatives of these organizations
were called together and chose as vice-chairman, Mrs. E. O.
Wattis, president of the State Federation of Women's Clubs. A member was chosen from each of the following organizations to
act on the executive committee: Y. L. M. I. A., Y. W. C. A.,
Women's Relief Corps. Mrs. Lyman was appointed secretary
of the committee. I am expected to appoint county chairmen,
who, when the call comes, will make it their business to organize
the counties, and assist in securing a fund to make up the quota
for the state of Utah. We do not know yet how much that will
be. Now, we want to say to you stake presidents, that in all
probability we will not appoint you as county chairmen, but we
know that you will be loyal and that it will be your pleasure to
do all you can to assist your counties in helping Utah to make the
proper showing; and whoever we appoint should receive your
co-operation and assistance. The county chairmen will of course
be women who belong to one or another of the affiliated organizations
of t he Council. Our Relief Society women from other
states will in all probability be approached by their state chairmen
to give assistance, and we trust that all members of the Relief
Society will take pride in contributing to this cause.
Note: Addresses by Dr. J. Wallace, "Goitre," Miss Charlotte Dancy,
"Care of Expectant Mother," and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, "National
and International Councils of Women." will appear in the July issue of
the Magazine.