THE WARD CLASS LEADER Counselor Louise Y. Robison In our great organization there are many offices and positions that need specialized workers. We have been too apt in the past to ask people whom we knew were dependable and faithful to fill offices regardless of their other qualifications, and oftentimes these people have not been the ones who would make those offices the strongest. In our work in the Relief Society it is necessary to have the president, counselors, secretary, and other officers, and class leaders, and necessary that all should have the same spirit, but there should be and is a diversity of gifts among them, and there are diversified needs in the work. One of the most important workers in the organization is the class leader, who should be a person having special qualifications. All ward presidents realize that they need class leaders to begin work in the fall of the year, but if they have not given this matter any thought and attention prior to this time, they will be at a loss to secure the right kind of women to act in this capacity. Officers should be alert and keep their eyes open for good material. They will often discover college girls and school teachers who have not become affiliated with any organization, but who would make very capable class leaders in the organization, if they were invited to take up the work. There are several qualifications for the ideal class leader. First would be her spirituality, which is fundamental; secondly, her dependability, for if a class leader is not dependable, if she is not prepared or is often absent, how can the officers enthusiastically urge good attendance; thirdly, a teacher should know her subject; fourthly, a class teacher should have a sympathetic understanding of the people with whom she is working, and adapt the lesson to the class, by modifying or simplifying the lesson where necessary. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES — 285 I think the class leader can lead her group very much as the captain in the army leads the men. They must be close enough to him to hear what he says, and to know his motives and desires. If the leader should be so far in advance of the men that they could not hear his commands, they would become confused, and I think that is the case in many of our groups. If some one were to talk to me on some scientific subject of which I know nothing, I should probably be thinking of how I could make over one of the children's dresses, or paper a room, because I would not know what he was talking about. I remember at a ward conference one day, a sister past middle age, evidently not a college woman, gave me help and inspiration because she made the Scriptures a part of me, and made me want to respond to the lesson that she gave on the Scriptures. Her sympathetic appreciation of her audience was her strong point. So that a class leader must have a knowledge of the gospel, and she must have dependability; but these are not enough. She must have the facts of the lesson, but that is not sufficient. She must have enough tact to convert the lesson into a personal message to each woman. On the other hand, class teachers, after they have prepared their lessons, which often takes hours of research and study, are entitled to some consideration from the officers and from the class. If the president allows any kind of program or announcements or plans for bazaars, etc., to encroach on the allotted time of the teacher, who has made such extensive preparation, the teacher will become discouraged. I recently attended a meeting where they were planning for a ward bazaar. The class ledder had come fully prepared with the lesson, and when the committee work was finished, which should have been done in separate committee meetings, this class leader had ten minutes to present the lesson. Also the class leaders would be greatly encouraged if all officers and members would always come prepared. The annual report shows that many of the officers are not subscribers to the Magazine. This probably accounts for the condition in some of the wards where the officers apparently know nothing of the lesson, and contribute nothing to the recitation. When one has work to do, tools are necessary. Certainly the Magazine, with its lessons, is the important tool for the officers and members of the Relief Society..