[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | June | Issue: 18 | Title: LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: Unknown]

LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	THE semi-monthly meeting held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, May 6,
1894. Counselor E. Stevenson conducted
the meeting. Meeting opened by singing,
“O, my Father.” Prayer by Counselor E.
Webb. Continued by singing, ‘‘Welcome,
best of all good meetings.” Minutes of
last meeting read and approved. Minutes of
Primary Association of Fifteenth Ward read.
	President M. Isabella Horne said she was
pleased with the minutes read by the little
girl. Thought mothers should be careful
and prompt in sending the children to the
Primary. We should be careful of pride,
and dress the children plainly. A proprietor
of a store said he sold more gingham to
clothe the children of the rich, by far, than
to clothe the children of the poorer classes.
Children should be taught to respect their
parents. Young mothers be wise and
humble. We are all God’s children, and
should be wise and humble, striving to
raise our children to fear God. Told of the
sad fate of a Prophet, because he did not
restrain his children. President Woodruff
has said that when the Temple was dedica-
ted the angels had been told to reap down
the earth, and the spirit of destruction was
everywhere except in Zion. Spoke of the
many virtues and good deeds of Sister
McMaster, President of the Relief Society
of the Eleventh Ward, who had passed
away since our last meeting; also Sister
Player, one of the Counselors to the Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Nineteenth
Ward; they were noble women, valiant for
the truth, and had passed to the great be-
yond, to mingle with loved ones, and enjoy
the reward of the righteous.
	A sister in the congregation testified that
this was the Church of God. Sister Julia
Pack bore a strong testimony to the truth
of the Gospel, spoke of the Prophet Joseph,
how his face shone with glory when he told
of the truths of the Gospel, and also spoke
of seeing the murdered Prophet and Patri-
arch side by side in death.
	Sisters Rawlings, Forsythe, Morris,
Phelps, Clark, Brown and Nunn, each
spoke upon healing and concerning faith,
promises fulfilled, and the testimony of the
Gospel and its gifts and powers.
	Sisters M. W. Wilcox, Mary Ann Hardy
and Williams, each bore strong testimonies
and were pleased with the sentiment of the
meeting. Sister J. C. Howe said the sub-
jects treated upon had been timely. “I am
thankful that my kind parents taught me
to revere the Sabbath day. God has an-
swered my prayers in a remarkable manner."
	Sister Jane James bore a faithful testi-
mony, then spoke in tongues.—Interpreta-
tion given by Sister Phelps.
	Counselor Stevenson—Is this not the
school of the prophets to us? Spoke at
some length on the duties of mothers, mak-
ing many good remarks. President Horne
made a few closing remarks. Meeting ad-
journed for two weeks. Singing, “This
God is the God we adore.” Benediction.
Sister L. D. Alder.

	Ladies’ semi-monthly meeting held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, May 19,
1894. Sister M. Isabella Horne presiding.

[Column 2]
Meeting opened by singing, “When the
voice of friendship’s heard.” Prayer by
Sister Margaret C. Brown. Continued by
singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Minutes
of last meeting read and approved.
	President Horne hoped the sisters would
bear testimony that we might have a time
of refreshing from the Lord. God knows
when we bear testimony. “Angels bear re-
cords to the worlds on high. By our re-
cords we shall be judged. Let us keep His
commandments, that He may not say to us,
“Depart, you have not done the things I
commanded you.” Of all women we are
the most blessed, if we have the good spirit
in our heart.”
	Minutes of Primary of the Fifteenth
Ward were read by the secretary, which
were very instructive.
	By request President Horne granted per-
mission for the patrichal blessing, given by
the Patriarch Hyrum Smith to Sister Jane
James, to be read in the meeting. The
blessing was read by Sister Alder.
	Sister Elmina Taylor said, it is comfort-
ing to know that who doeth well shall be
blessed. We have the gifts of the Gospel
among us. We frequently have the gift of
tongues, also the gift of healing (I have
been healed many times myself,) and all the
other gifts are in the church as promised.
Should we not live better lives? Should
we not be careful of our association, and be
calm here in Zion while the dreadful calam-
ities pass over the earth? God said that in
the last days He would pour out judgments
on the wicked. May we so live that to us
He will say, “Well and faithfully done.”
	Sisters Corbet, Diana Reed, Peterson,
Hayon, Holland, Larsen and Forsythe
bore excellent testimonies. Sisters sang,
“Arise, my soul arise.”
	Sister Rawlings, Kiddle, Frances Smith
and Workman each bore testimony concern-
ing the healing power, fulfillment of prophecy
and of promises made by the servants
of God.
	Counselor E. Webb spoke at some length
on Temple work, urged the sisters to at-
tend to this important duty, also of the
dreadful calamities befalling the children
of men, disasters by sea and by land, at
home and abroad; felt that we were living
in the time spoken of by the prophets,
knew the gift of healing was in the Church
at the present time as well as in the past,
and that she was a living monument of
God’s mercy. Urged the sisters to redeem
their dead.
	Other sisters in the congregation bore
testimony, and desired to be true and faith-
ful.
	Sisters Morris and Ford bore testimony
that Joseph was a prophet of God, was
thankful for this knowledge.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder also bore testimony.
	President Horne felt to thank God for
the many excellent testimonies borne to-
day, and felt to bless the sisters. The gift
of tongues was poured out. The inter-
pretation was given by Sister Phelps, and
was a rich blessing to the sisters. Sister
Morris testified of the good spirit in the
house. President Horne spoke of laboring
in the Temple, and of a vision that a sister
had just been given there. She saw her
daughter (who had but lately passed away)
with the heavenly choir, and when the
Temple choir sang the Hosannah, the
heavenly choir all sang Hosannah, and her
daughter was among them. Made other
closing remarks. Meeting was adjourned
for two weeks. President Horne spoke of

[Column 3]
the secretary’s absence, that she was often
prevented by circumstances, it was sugges-
ted that the sisters pray that Sister Young
might be enabled to attend. Sisters sang,
“There’s a feast of fat things.” Benedic-
tion by Sister Julia Pack.
LYDIA D. ALDER, Ast. Sec.


