[Vol21 | May 1934 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: European Mission Relief Society Report]

I AM sure that whenever the Gospel has been upon the earth in its fulness, there has been active work for women to do. We do not know the detail of the work that was done by the women of Ancient Israel, but we do know from our study of the Old and New Testament that women were active in those days, for we read that there were priests and priestesses in those times, and they could not have been isolated exceptions.

Then we come down through the ages when the Gospel of Jesus Christ was taken from the earth, not by an arbitrary act of God, but through the slothfulness of man himself, losing that power, and we find through all the dark ages that woman was held more or less enthralled. Her voice was still, she was inactive in any public sense, and was held in submission to her husband, her lord. One of the great contributions of the Prophet Joseph, our modern prophet, was the restoration of the rights of woman, of her independence, and the right to exercise her free agency. I never tire in telling, and I always have joy in thinking of the fact that this great privilege was given to woman in this dispensation as a gift. She did not have to ask for it, she has never had to fight for it, it came to her with the restoration of the Gospel in its fulness. For this gift, if we shall call it that, this privilege, we should show our gratitude, and we try to do so through our works. I am convinced that there is a work for the Relief Society to do in the world today as never before in its history.

That has been the thought in mind in emphasizing the work of the women in the European Missions, and it is here at home. The Relief Society has been organized for many years in Europe. In Europe there are eleven missions speaking eight different languages. The office of the President of the European Relief Society is supervisory only, attempting to correlate the work of the Society in all these missions. The total membership of the Relief Society in the missions is about 4,375, with an average attendance at meetings of 58.8% of the enrollment.

Practically all of the Societies are following the prescribed outline of study. In making my report of conditions in the missions, I desire to pay a tribute of respect to the sisters who preceded me as European Mission Supervisors of Relief Society, also to note the intelligent help given in the work by the Mission Presidents of Relief Society who have served in the different missions while I have been in the mission field, as well as to the conscientious and willing activity of the local members in each mission. The fine cooperation of these sisters, one and all, has made possible the progress that has been made. The Relief Societies in our newest missions, those of Czecho-Slovakia and Palestine-Syria, are undertaking the Relief Society work in earnest and with much intelligence.

Their leaders are well qualified and great progress will be made there as elsewhere in the mission field.

Formerly the great ideal of the people who joined the Church in the missions was to gather to Zion, but during the last decade Uncle Sam has closed his doors, and our members have had to stay on the other side whether they would or not.

This has been a hardship to some, for they have longed for years, and saved their money in the hope that they might come to Zion.

With this change in policy it has been necessary to establish the auxiliaries of the Church with greater activity, so that the people may carry on their religion in the mission field, the auxiliaries are operating there much as they do at home.

That has meant a very great responsibility added to the wife of the mission president if she has been the one to carry on the work of the women's auxiliaries.

Sometime ago a request was made for lady missionaries in Europe. Our leaders answered by urging us to train the local women to officer their own auxiliaries, and during the last three years that has been consummated. In practically all of the eight very active missions in Europe, there have now been formed boards of local women over the three women's auxiliaries. One of the first projects that we set ourselves was to gather the histories of the different missions. It had been undertaken before, and the mission presidents' wives preceding me have done splendid work, but we undertook as a special centennial project the gathering of Relief Society histories in each of the missions, and then used our roll book for the keeping of that data up to date.

This has meant a great deal of work, but has given much encouragement to the sisters, for they all found that they had histories of which they may be proud.

Another of the contributions and projects was the attempt we made to bring our study courses in harmony with those you are using here in Zion.

While the missions were sending their active people to Zion, it was rather difficult to have any uniform courses of study, but we attempted, and have succeeded for the last two or three years, in bringing all of the European Missions (eight of them, we have had two new ones added since) into harmony with each other, so that we all were studying the same lessons and working from the same program. It has given them a great deal of satisfaction to feel that they are in unison with this great sisterhood of women throughout the world, and are studying what you are studying.

They do feel that our Society is now an International as well as a National Relief Society. For the last thirty years there have been no lady missionaries in Europe, but as a result of prayer, we were given two lady missionaries a year ago last October, and two finer girls never lived than those who were sent over to work with us.

They are there now and they have proved a very great blessing.

They are doing work that in some cases our missionary boys could not do, and they are helping us so much with our auxiliary work, which is so necessary. It is impossible for the mission president's wife to do it all. We need more missionary girls. I have lived in Europe for six years, have visited all the countries, and I cannot see that our girls are not just as safe in Europe as they would be in any of the missions in the States. Of course we need girls who are spiritual minded, and who will be able to stand on their own feet, but that is the type we need in all of the missions, and so I hope that it may be possible for us to receive more lady missionaries in Europe.

I should like to report too how much we have enjoyed the Relief Society Handbook. It has been a very great satisfaction to us when any question came up to be able to turn to the handbook and say this and so it is, and the service of this handbook has been inestimable in our work.

Another activity is of the Singing Mothers. We had no way of knowing anything about this activity except through the Magazine, but we read of it, and the sisters of the different missions liked the title. It had rather a singing sound, and as we spoke of it, it brought to mind busy mothers who had time to leave their fireside and sing, and if they would sing in a chorus, they would surely sing to their growing children. In practically all of our missions now we have Church Singing Mothers. We did not make any request for it, the missions adopted it.

These are times, when, as never before, the contribution of the mothers of men must be felt, and I do feel that upon the shoulders of the Relief Society—the mothers, the women of our Church, rests the responsibility of carrying Christianity. It is bigger than all the machinery of our organization, great as our accomplishments may be. The world is starving for understanding, for sympathy. The greatest help that can be given by our Relief Society sisters is the spiritual uplift for men and women who have to struggle against adversity. I am sure that most of us feel that our greatest need is for the bread of life, the bread of life that Christ gives. While we do feel that it is necessary to have actual food for our bodies, let us not forget that the food for the spirit is equally important.

I remember a story that was told by my husband's mother. It was about one of the leading men whom my husband saw as a little lad soon after he came to this country, permitting an indiscretion, and he came home in great sorrow to tell his mother that he had seen this leader do this act. His mother said, "Well now it is of no matter to you what brother so and so does, that is his affair, what matters to you a great deal, is what John does." I feel today that the Relief Society mothers must not allow the criticism of others in their presence, and must encourage the expression of love and trust and understanding of our leaders from our Bishops to the head of our Church. If we will do this, and dedicate our lives to this service, and prove to our Heavenly Father that we are worthy of the great organization He has given to us, I feel that His kingdom on earth will spread to that extent.

In closing I would like to tell you of the great thrill it has been to me to visit the Relief Societies which I have visited, and to see how they have grown during the last six years. It makes me happy to see our younger women come out. It is a great tribute to our General Board to know that these groups are growing, for if these younger women did not appreciate the lessons, they would not come out in the numbers they do. Beyond measure I am grateful for this restored Gospel, for the privilege that is given the daughters of Israel to walk side by side with their husbands who hold the Priesthood. I am grateful for the testimony I have of the truthfulness of the Gospel, and pray that we shall instill it into the hearts of our youth until it shall crush out of their hearts the evil that the evil one desires to implant there. That our work shall grow, that it shall encompass all needs, spiritual and physical, and social and economic ambitions is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
work and business meeting and a testimony meeting. A part of the time is divided for testimonies, but at the beginning of this Relief Society year we started to have the teachers' topic translated into Spanish and many copies made of it, and we use that on testimony day for a lesson. This gives our Mexican sisters a subject to talk on in their testimonies, and prevents them from giving the same testimony all of the time. Then it serves also as a preparation for the teachers when they make their visits. We give them enough copies of the topic to leave one in each home. Our missionaries think the topics are so fine that many times they use them when tracting, and leave them with the investigators. Our visiting has increased since we started to use these