Our Changing Social World By Arthur L. Beeley
All things must change To something new, to something strange. —Longfellow.
It is a strange paradox that change is the most constant thing in the universe. It might truthfully be said, in fact, that nothing endures but change. Change is a universal characteristic of all life, both physical and social. While the rate of change is more or less constant in the realms of nature, its velocity is continually increasing in society. Due to the combined influence of science and inventions, recent social changes have, therefore, been more rapid and more marked than ever before in history. These changes, moreover, have profoundly affected our social institutions, our moral values and our human natures. Evidences of these facts abound on every hand. For example, the human race enjoys a higher standard of living and more material benefits now than ever before. Crime and lawlessness increase directly with the rate of social change. Leisure time, with its new and unexpected problems, has increased largely as a result of our mechanized life. Fluctuations in prosperity and depression are greater than ever before and we have even bigger and better wars!
The present age is essentially an era of science and invention. It began some three hundred years ago when men like Bacon and Galileo began to draw their conclusions about the universe from their own direct observations of life and nature. Later on Newton, Malthus and Darwin pursued truth in essentially the same way and with equally startling and well-known results. This willingness of man to observe nature directly and to believe only that which is verifiable has, in turn, produced an age of invention and discovery. Consider the lens, as an example. It has given us the microscope, the telescope and the camera, without which there would have been no science of bacteriology, no science of astronomy and no photography. The discovery of electricity has extended our means of communication and thus brought people together who before were isolated geographically. The printing arts, industrial chemistry are further illustrations of the way in which man has converted many of the latent forces of the physical world to his own use and happiness, thus becoming, in very deed, a creator rather than a creature of his environment.
II
In what ways have these material advances affected our social institutions and our human natures? The most marked effect has been in the standard of living, particularly among the peoples in the Western world. More people enjoy a wider range of comforts and luxuries than at any previous time. Relationships between peoples have changed very profoundly with the advances in transportation and communication. Persons have come to move about a good deal, with the result that the number and variety of their social contacts have very materially increased. All of this has brought about a change from a society made up of small, intimate groups to a social order essentially urban, where millions of people live in close but impersonal contact. The modern city is perhaps the outstanding product of these changes.
This urbanization of life has unduly stressed the externals in human behavior. Dress and personal appearance, for instance, now receive more emphasis than do the basic qualities of character. Because of these impersonal relationships it is now possible for individuals to live in a number of different moral worlds in which their behavior in one social situation is entirely unknown to their associates in another. This condition has greatly intensified crime and vice and explains why these problems are much more acute in cities.
While these changes have been beneficial in some particulars they are not an unmitigated blessing. Sharp contrasts appear at many critical points. Walter Lippman, in his Preface to Morals, has described some of the unfavorable results of current social change by saying: "The evidences of these greater difficulties lie all about us; in the brave and brilliant atheists who have defied the Methodist God, in the women who have emancipated themselves from the tyranny of fathers, husbands, and homes, and with the intermittent but expensive help of a psychoanalyst, are now enduring liberty as interior decorators; in the young men and women who are world-weary at twenty-two; in the multitudes who drug themselves with pleasure; in the crowds enfranchised by the blood of heroes who cannot be persuaded to take an interest in their destiny. * * *"
III
The changes here described have been more rapid in our material culture than in our non-material or adaptive culture. This unevenness of social progress has produced the condition known as cultural lag, the chief consequences of which are social disorganization. Consider a few concrete examples of this unevenness in social progress. In our large cities, for instance, where material culture has advanced most rapidly the form and theory of government is essentially that of a village or township. In many of our great cities, for example, we are attempting to regulate public welfare and human relationships by a form of government which is fundamentally local and rural. These obsolete patterns of government have nowhere proved their inadequacy so clearly as in the matter of law and criminal justice. Most American communities are attempting to cope with crime and lawlessness in terms of a county or town conception of the problem. In very few American cities, for instance, are the courts or the law enforcement agencies unified in an attempt to administer justice efficiently and without delay. This is a major cause of our failure to cope effectively with crime in America.
It is at once apparent that while commerce, trade, religion, art and science, are international, government and social control are local and national. This fact explains why such an obviously useful device as The League of Nations cannot yet function effectively. A glance at the field of law supports the same thesis. The progress of science and invention have rendered obsolete many of the old-established principles and assumptions in our law. Most criminal courts and penal codes still deal with the offender in terms of a seventeenth century theory of conduct and freedom. Free will and individual responsibility are still the bases of our criminal procedure, whereas the behavioristic sciences have proved conclusively that the individual himself is not wholly responsible for his conduct. Yet we continue to punish the offender on the assumption that he could be good if he wanted to. This theory of individualism is nicely illustrated by many of our constitutional provisions which, in some cases, were taken bodily from the English Bill of Rights of 1688. These provisions, originally intended to protect the individual against the tyranny of the Stuart kings, make it practically impossible for American communities to successfully cope with organized crime in the twentieth century.
Equally apparent is the cultural lag in education, notwithstanding much substantial progress in this field. The aims of present-day public education are, after all, still the aims of two hundred years ago, when reading was encouraged largely for religious reasons. Thus it is that reading is still the first and fundamental subject in the school curriculum. Only very recently has public education taken on the aims of health, vocational training and character. The methods of teaching are principally those of the face to face variety. Such devices as the movie have not yet been successfully adapted to the work of the public school. A consideration of radio in education reveals a similar lag. And yet who will deny that Walter Damrosch, through his nation-wide school programs has become the most influential force in music appreciation in the United States? Similar criticisms might be made of the subject matter of the public school curriculum.
Most striking, however, is the lag and conservatism in the field of organized religion. Creeds, dogma, ritual and other impedimenta have eclipsed the aims and much of the beauty of the Christian religion. The Bible, too, is still regarded by many as a text book of science. Moreover, it seems very difficult to focus the attention of the average Christian upon the basic formula in his religion—love. To read the scriptures is easy but to apply the golden rule to the health needs of little children in our day and time seems to tax our institutionalized religious systems beyond the limit of their capacity. The religious problem with its accompanying challenge has never been better stated than by Edward Scribner Ames, who insists that "We must make religion as intelligent as science, as appealing as art, and as vital as the day's work."
IV
What can we do about it? First of all, we must reconcile ourselves to the fact that the problem is more difficult than it appears on the surface. Social forces are more unwieldy and therefore less amenable to control than are individuals. These problems cannot be solved by merely passing resolutions or by enacting laws. In order to cope effectively with social change and "cultural lag," it will be necessary for us to do two things: first, we must speed up the development of our non-material culture, thus enabling it to keep abreast of material culture; and second, we shall have to socialize our material culture.
Due to the rapid advance of material culture and the accelerated progress of science, we have come to enjoy a higher standard of living and a higher level of freedom from which there can be no turning back. The "lag" between our material and our non-material culture must, therefore, be overcome by the reconstruction of our adaptive controls (e. g., law, government, education, religion) if the basic social values in our civilization are to be restored and guaranteed. Out of a background of laissez-faire individualism has grown this economic leviathan—our material culture—having enjoyed as it grew, all of the advantages of collectivism, yet assuming few, if any, of its obligations. The problem, therefore, is essentially one of socializing our material culture. More specifically the task is one of substituting the principle of collectivism and its corollary cooperation for the principle of individualism and its corollary competition in the complex process of producing, distributing and consuming material things.
We must reconcile ourselves to the idea of social change, since change is inevitable. We must familiarize ourselves with the facts and discoverable causes of social change. As Professor Ogburn, of the President's Research Committee on Social Trends has wisely said, we must first ask ourselves what is going to happen and then see what can be done about it, instead of first making up our minds what we want. Finally, we must develop the art of collective thinking and collective planning. It is our only hope, for the era of individualism is past. Hobhouse, in his Elements of Social Justice has profoundly said: "Perhaps the history of this adventure will teach the world once again that the spring of progress is spiritual. * * * Perhaps a true spiritual authority will arise out of the present welter of half-knowledge and conflicting dogmatisms * * * an organization, not of officials and monarchs, but of knowledge, wisdom and righteousness, the bodiless church of humanity in which the federated democracies of the world may find their soul."