The Friendship of Charles W. Nibley and President Joseph F. Smith By Preston Nibley
One of the most interesting and beautiful things in connection with the life of my honored father, Charles W. Nibley, was the admiration, friendship, and love which he manifested throughout his whole life toward President Joseph F. Smith, and which was returned to him in full measure. I do not recall any similar record of such a friendship, unless it be that of David and Jonathan. It was at least the strongest friendship I have ever known to exist between two men, and it certainly resulted in greatly enriching the lives of both.
Since the death of my father, the family has come into possession of about one hundred pages of his autobiography, which he dictated at various times over a period of twenty years. In this autobiography, he carefully traces a record of his childhood, his immigration from Scotland to this country, his settlement in Rhode Island, and then the trip across the plains, which occurred in the summer of 1860. There is a little note in the autobiography which contains the first mention of his ever coming in contact with or hearing of Joseph F. Smith. The event took place at Omaha, and is as follows:
"I think it was in June, 1860, that we first saw Apostles of the Church—Amasa Lyman, Charles C. Rich, and a young boy, not then an Apostle, Joseph F. Smith by name, here on their way to fill a mission to Europe."
I can picture these two youths taking side-glances at each other, probably out of mere curiosity. My father at that time was a boy of eleven years, barefooted, just beginning his long walk across the plains by the side of his father's covered wagon. President Smith was a mature, strong, young man, twenty-two years of age, going on his way to England to fill his second mission. He had previously filled one at the age of seventeen to the Hawaiian Islands.
My father came on to Utah, and after enduring unusual hardships in the settlement of Wellsville, in Cache County, he moved to Brigham City and set himself up there as a merchant. He prospered, more or less, in everything he undertook, and by the time he had reached the age of twenty-five years, he was general freight and passenger agent of the Utah Northern Railroad. In going through his autobiography, there is this second little note of his contact with President Joseph F. Smith:
"I continued to work as a general freight and passenger agent of the Utah Northern Railroad from 1873 to 1877, when I was called on a mission to Europe. President Joseph F. Smith had been called by President Young to go and preside over the European mission. President Smith sent for me and asked me to go with him and take charge of the business affairs of the Liverpool office. This was the beginning of the friendship with President Smith, which has been invaluable to me in so many ways. His example has always been the best and his friendship has always been to me like the friendship of Jonathan and David. From the very first, we seemed to understand each other. I owe so much to him."
My father has often related to me his experiences while on this European mission and how kind and considerate President Smith was in every way toward him. They traveled together throughout the British Isles, preached together, ate together, and at Liverpool, lived in the same house—old Forty-two Islington. As everyone knows, who has been on a mission, there is a natural, strong friendship springs up between an Elder and his companion, but in this case, it was permanent and remained throughout a lifetime.
After returning to Utah, there was a long period of years in which these two men were closely associated, particularly during the old anti-polygamy days, when they often had to be absent from the state. Upon many occasions, they were together and took long journeys to the East and to the Northwest. Whenever my father was in any position where he required advice, he always hastened to President Smith, and sought and obtained the advice and counsel from him.
In the year of 1901, at the death of President Lorenzo Snow, President Smith succeeded him as President of the Church. By this time my father was a very prosperous and busy man, at the height of his career; yet I remember on many occasions when President Smith and members of his family would be at our house to dinner, or we would be at his home visiting with him. The friendship between the two men continued and grew stronger.
In the summer of 1906, President Smith and my father, together with members of their families, made a trip to Europe. On their return home, they stopped and visited me in Chicago, where I was a student, attending the University there. On that occasion, I accompanied the party on a visit to Carthage and Nauvoo, Illinois. I recall that it was President Smith's first visit to Carthage jail, and never shall I forget how he sank down in a chair and wept in the little jail room, where his father had been killed. Also I shall not soon forget the picture of my father standing by him with his arms around him, silently weeping too. These men had their moments of joy and their times of sorrow together.
In my father's autobiography under date of December, 1907, there is this: "Early in the month of December, 1907, President Smith sent for me to come to the President's office. He said to me: 'Charlie, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints needs a presiding bishop, and you have been chosen for that place.' Of course it was a great surprise to me. I had never dreamed of acting in that office, but I was glad, and even anxious to do anything I could to assist President Smith in his administration of Church affairs, and I told him so. He took me in his arms and kissed me and wept tears of joy as he hugged me and blessed me, as only he can do."
During the time my father was presiding bishop, he traveled far and wide with President Smith. They took two trips to Europe together, four trips to the Hawaiian Islands, and many throughout the various states, and to Canada. In the autobiography, father says: "Surely it was a great favor and blessing to me to be thus privileged to associate with one whom I so dearly loved and who was always so companionable with me."
On a certain occasion in Salt Lake City—to be exact, I find it was under date of November 14, 1913—there was a large reception at the home of Mr. and Mrs. A. W. McCune on North Main Street. During the course of the evening President Smith was called upon to address the group. He was in a happy frame of mind and complimented one and another, and also bore his deep, strong, testimony of the truthfulness of the Gospel. Suddenly, pointing to my father he said, "This is my bishop and he is the Lord's bishop. He is the presiding bishop of the Church, and he is a good man in his place. I know that the voice of the Lord spoke to me about his choice and calling to that position, just as well as I know that I am speaking to you tonight. It was all just as clear to me as my voice is clear to me now while I am speaking to you."
About Christmas time of this same year, my father presented to President Smith four volumes of Cromwell's Letters and Speeches, by Thomas Carlyle. As an inscription in volume one, he wrote: "To President Joseph F. Smith, the best friend I have ever had and the truest." In the third volume, Bishop David A. Smith has recently shown me a little writing of his father's, which neither of us had known prior to be there. It is as follows: "From Honorable Charles W. Nibley, the most generous, truest, and most unselfish friend I ever had, except only my wives, my children, and my Heavenly Father. I thank God for such a friend and invoke His eternal favor and blessings upon him."
On many and all occasions, during the lifetime of my father and President Smith, especially during the time they were associated together as officers in the Church, it was always my father's first desire, as he termed it, "to help make President Smith's administration successful." I might say that he gave the principal efforts of his bishopric to that service.
After reading the above lines, one can well understand what a shock and a blow it was to my father when in November, 1918, President Smith passed away. Father records in his autobiography as follows: "On November 19, 1918, my dearest and best of friends, my most lovable and precious brother, President Joseph F. Smith, passed from this sphere to his reward in the life beyond. This brought the greatest sorrow into my life, for to me, he was my ideal. If I could only be assured that I would be worthy to associate with him in the Hereafter, I would be happy indeed."
On the day of the funeral, standing beside President Smith's open grave, he paid him this loving tribute: "He did not set himself up to be great; for he was so simple, so unostentatious, so gentle, loving, and kind; and yet, when his spirit was roused at any indignity, at any insult, no man could or would more fiercely or more quickly resent it; but his life was gentle and he was a man such as we seldom see. I say, from my point of view, here lies the body of the greatest man and the best man in all the world."
It took my father many years to recover from the loss of this great friend, and indeed, I do not know that he ever recovered. In going through some of my father's papers after his death last December, I came upon this beautiful letter, written to him by President Smith on February 5, 1916. The letter is almost too sacred to print, and yet I want to reproduce it, as I think it is one of the most beautiful letters ever penned. It expresses in the fullest measure the glorious friendship which President Smith felt towards my father, and it also expresses his wonderful and abiding faith in the favors of our Lord:
"Feb. 5, 1916
"Bishop Charles W. Nibley "City.
"My Beloved Brother and Most Respected Bishop.
"I welcome your 67th birthday anniversary with the fullness and richness of its accompanying gifts and blessing from above and all around—with all my heart and soul. How glad I would be if I could simply add just one blessing more—just one joy or holy pleasure to all of those you already possess, by God's kind providence in your behalf.
"You are already assured that there is nothing in this world, in my opinion, too good for you, and that the lightest grief or smallest hurt or wrong would be most unwelcome and unkind and undeserved.
"God bless my friend and brother. May each of the many anniversaries to come be better and happier than the last. May every noble desire and ambition of your heart be crowned with success, and every aspiration of your soul be not only pure and good—but readily attained. May the highest wisdom and the clearest foresight always guide you in your individual pursuits, and in your public duties and business. May the record of your Bishopric be spotless and the glory of your Stewardship excell that of all who have gone before. May your name go down the coming ages in most honorable and loving remembrance, and your posterity minister forever in righteousness before the Living God.
"May the honor and glory of Divine Priesthood and Authority never depart from your House—nor forsake your posterity.
"Oh God bless the Presiding Bishop of Thy Church, and his associates, and secure unto them the heart-felt love and confidence of Thy people, and make them a mighty power in Thine hand for good. With abiding love and confidence, I am Your brother,
"Joseph F. Smith."
If I were to be asked what secret lay at the bottom of whatever success my father had in life, I think I should answer: "He had a friend."