Lesson Preparation and Union Meeting Address delivered at Relief Society Conference, April 6, 1932, By Kate M. Barker UR Relief Society was organized for a two fold purpose— service and education—service to humanity, and education of the individual woman, in order that each one of us may serve better. In our social service case work, the social service aid first studies the theory of case work. She applies this technique in her investigation and finds out all the facts that she can for each individual case. She makes a definite plan for each family, with its rehabilitation as an objective. This plan is used in actual service. I wonder if in our lesson work we are using some intelligent effort along this line; how to plan and present a lesson to get the desired results? Education is not just the acquiring of facts, but it is the applying of these facts to actual living. Our inner life grows daily on what we feed upon, what we apply in thought and action this day, tomorrow will be personality and character. The end we want to reach in our lessons is some desired change in the thoughts and experiences of olir women, and the subject matter, no matter how beautiful, is but a means to an end. Facts in and of themselves are of no importance, it is only when we see their significance, when we see through them, to the truths beyond, that they are of value.. Why do we study history and literature, the Bible and the 'Book of Mormon? Certainly not to get a collection of interesting facts, but because the mistakes and victories of the past help us to better understand the present and help us to clearer and straighter thinking about our own problems. Their testimonies strengthen our testimonies, and give us a goal for further achievement. All these cultural and spiritual truths have come out of the experience of men and women who have been engaged in the actual business of living, and to have significance must be put back into life. They must be set to work iby us who are learning, that we may live better, happier and more fruitful lives. Our teaching must make a lasting impression. We have all, no doubt, heard a lesson given which was just an accumulation of facts, and was interesting while it was being listened to, but afterwards there was no lasting impression. The lessons that we remember are the ones that are built into our lives, and that afterwards shape our thinking and acting. The appeals that touch only the surface of the mind are of no more benefit than writing upon the sand. Psychologists tell us that the mind is able to pay attention to but one thing at a time, and that for a lesson to make a lasting effect it must be able to lend some definite truth, and the facts organized to build up this truth. Like the sunglass, to be effective, the rays must be focussed on a single point. Are our Relief Society women just passive during the lesson period, enjoying possibly a pleasant hour, but receiving no lasting benefit, or is each one of them taking away from each lesson some definite truth LESSON PREPARATION which she can dwell upon and think about and build into her life? Might we not judge the effect of our past lessons by some such question as this? Is our faith ever increasing, and is it an active faith, which spurs us to live nearer to our Father in Heaven? Does it make us desirous of helping others to enjoy the happiness which the gospel brings? Are we learning more and more what traits and characteristics in man make for true and lasting happiness, and meet with the approval of the Lord? Are we receiving an enthusiasm which will spur us to try to build these characteristics into our own lives? Is our appreciation of literature growing? Are we reading better and better books? Is the type of magazine in our homes getting better and better? Are we getting a higher appreciation of life and life's values? Are we developing power and leadership and compelling personality? I think these can be called the objectives we want to reach in our lesson work. It puts a great responsibility on the teacher; surely all the thought and prayer that we can put on this subject is worth while. One of the requisites of a good teacher is enthusiasm for the subject she is teaching. In our theology work nothing can take the place of a vital religious experience, and that the teacher has a strong personal testimony of the truth of what she is teaching. But even this cannot take the place of thorough preparation. Our best educators have worked out a very fine technique for the planning and presentation of a lesson, and I think it is well worth our while to spend some time in consideration of this. 1. Begin early to study the lesson —a last minute preparation is like passing a snap judgment on a subject 359. A subject that is pondered over takes on richer meaning. 2. Get a broader background. The teacher must know much more than she can possibly use in presenting the lesson. 3. Choose the objective. Out of the facts and experiences in the lesson, what conclusion can we come to that will strengthen our testimony, or that we can apply to help us live better lives? 4. After we have come to this conclusion and know our object, we must completely organize the material. All the facts are not equally important. We must learn to choose the significant facts, and fill in the details as time permits. We must budget our time. After our lesson is carefully planned to be successful we must consider this. We have the objective, we have come to our conclusion, now how does this great objective touch our lives? Then when the lesson is ready, and we feel we are thoroughly prepared, comes the question, "How can we best present it to the members to put over this idea?' Sometimes the lecture method is best, sometimes the question method, and sometimes a combination, but certainly it is better to vary the method, and not always use the same. No matter what the method used, the responsibility of having a definite plan is just as important, because it is up to the class leader to guide the discussion, to coordinate the facts in order that the lesson will present a united goal. Our auxiliary organizations, realizing the importance of this planning, have asked that each organization in the stake hold a union meeting once a month, where each department can meet by itself to discuss the lesson work. A stake 360 leader is chosen for each department. The object is better planning, and better presentation of the lessons. Our union meeting becomes sort of a combined teacher-training and preparation meeting. The stake leaders are the ones to lead out in this work. The union meeting guards against the last minute preparation. There is an economy of time, because each teacher benefits by the supplementary material that is brought in by the other teachers. All teachers have not the same access to books and libraries. There is chance for discussion; points that have not been understood by one member can probably be cleared up in the discussion. The responsibility for the success of this union meeting is on the stake board leader. She must be thoroughly prepared herself. We sympathize with the problem that some stakes face in not having adequate RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE room for each department to meet by itself, but this is the ideal we should work for, if our union meetings are to be successful. A few years ago Sister Robison planned a campaign for home beautification. We studied what flowers to plant, how to plant them, and how to care for them, and Relief Society women all over the Church planted beautiful gardens. We have been thrilled when we have gone into the little towns and seen these beautiful gardens. This is the idea that we want to reach in our lesson work, that these beautiful truths will be planted and blossom in the souls of our women, and thus spread to the whole world. The responsibility is on the stake worker. It will take a great deal of time, but all the time and consecration that we can give to this work will come back to us a hundred fold in enriched experience. Let us strive for it! To Margaret W. Manning On the twentieth anniversary of her service as President of Bear River Stake Relief Society By Edith E, Anderson Friendship is a tender plant That stronger grows with care; | To those who cultivate with love, It yields its blossoms rare. These precious flowers, your pathway throng; We gather them today And weave a garland for you dear, And thus our homage pay. A queen in fellow-service, You stand among us now, The majesty of service crowns Your noble pensive brow. Twenty years have winged their way To join the ages past, Since as our faithful president Your willing lot was cast. Twenty years of faithful trust To help a cause along, Twenty years of inward growth Have made your spirit strong. We love your' sweet humility, Your kind and gentle ways; Your peaceful words and counsels wise Have won our love and praise. We wish you joy and happiness; We know that sweet content Must fill the heart of one whose life Has been so nobly spent. We pray that peace and health be yours Throughout the coming years. Long may your leadership guide Our R. S. Stake careers.