A Scottish woman in the early days of the Church, a convert and the wife of a sea captain, once put in the bottom of her husband's trunk a copy of the Book of Mormon as she packed it for him. He was not a member of the Church, and would never either talk about religion or read any of the literature concerning it, and he was very bitter over the fact that his wife had joined "Mormonism." This placing of the Nephite Record in his way was the last daring resource of his tactful wife. He came back from the ocean voyage on this occasion a convert to the faith, and was baptized as soon as he landed on his home shores. The Book of Mormon had done it. Things going wrong with him on the trip, he ransacked his trunk for something to read, and ran upon this book, the only piece of reading matter there. In sheer hunger for something to occupy his mind with, he read it through more 356 than once—with the result stated. There have been a great many cases like that, where people have been led into" the Church in so humble a way by the Book of Mormon that no one has known of the means through which it was done. But the influence of the Book of Mormon has been indirect, too, like that of other great world books. That is, people who have not read it have nevertheless been greatly affected by its contents. They have been influenced by some of its dynamic sentences: "I know that the Lord giveth no commandment unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them." That is from Nephi. And Lehi says, "Adam fell that men might be; and men are that they might have joy." These, and many like them, have become so commonplace among our sayings that doubtless there are persons who do not really know their source. And people have been influenced in their lives by some of the scenes in. The Book of Mormon, although they may never have read these in the Record itself. That one where Lehi's family wanders in the wilderness on their way to the Promised Land, because God has commanded them; the scene in which the converted Lamanites lay down their lives rather than take up their swords to shed human life; that one in which the faithful Teancum steals out at night to plunge a javalin into the heart of the enemy of his people and loses his own life in the act: the picture of the last days of Moroni, son of Mormon, as he snatches a few moments from his dangerous situation to set down the last words in the gold book his father has left him—those words RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that have been quoted a million times about how to test the truth of the Book of Mormon. These all, and others as vivid, have become indelible on minds that have never gone to the place where they are to be found in detail. And the influence of the Book of Mormon has always been good. That is the final test of the worth of a book. Not whether it is well written, not whether this one or that wrote it, not the question of time or place, but how does it affect the reader—this is to go to the heart of a bit of reading of any sort. Tens of thousands of men and women in modern times can testify that the Nephite Record, in the language of the book itself, has "led them to righteousness" in their lives. It has helped them to bear the burden in the heat of the day. Among the indirect effects of the Book of Mormon not the least by any means is that which has come to the descendants of those about whom the Record tells—the American natives. The Latter-day Saints have sympathized with the American Indian, because through the Book of Mormon they knew how he came to be what he is. And they have always sought to treat him with humanity and kindness. The Book of Mormon has created this attitude. The Nephite Record had no sooner been published in English than some Church members went to the borders of the United States to see what could be done to redeem the natives there through the record of their forefathers. This was known as the Mission to the Lamanites. It did not succeed in the way the missionaries hoped, but it exhibits the attitude of the early SIDE LIGHTS ON THE BOOK OF MORMON Church toward the descendants of Lehi and Mulek. Later, when the Saints came West, one of their problems grew out of their relations with the Indians. But it was the Book of Mormon ideas that solved this problem for the "Mormons." Said Brigham Young, "It is better to feed than to fight the Indian." His general policy with them was to seek to help them, rather than to antagonize them, to deal out justice rather than cruelty and deceit. And this policy was followed in the main. The result was that the "Mormon" people here had less trouble with the natives than did any other colonists in the nation, Nothing better expresses the spirit of the Saints in their relation to the Indians than the work of Jacob Hamblin, the "Mormon" Leatherstocking, as he was often called. Shortly after he came to Utah he was sent at the head of some men from Tooele to capture a band of Indians that had stolen cattle be-. Longing to the settlers there. On reaching the camp of the natives, he induced the leaders to go with him to Tooele, on the promise that their lives would not be endangered thereby. But when Hamblin got to the settlement with his prisoners, the leader of the colony ordered the natives to be lined up against the wall and shot to death. Hamblin protested, but to no avail. In the end he sprang in front of the line of red men and said to the white leader: "Let me be the first one to be shot. I gave my word of honor to these people that they woild be spared. If that word is not to be honored, then I will die with them." 307 And he explains that, just before this, he had a very strong feeling that if he never harmed these barbarians, he would never be harmed by them. "I would not have hurt them," he adds, "for all the cattle in Tooele valley!" During the rest of his life he devoted himself to the education of the Indians. He studied them, he ate with them, he conversed with them, he worked with them, and he prayed with them in their own simple way. Also he never deceived them. And to the end of his long life his name among the Indian tribes hereabouts was the synonym of integrity and fair dealing. He got into many close places during his life, where his life was at stake, but his record always. Pulled him through unscathed. And the influence of the Book of Mormon will yet redeem the red man—not only the few hundred thousand in the United States, those on its reservations, but also the millions of other descendants of Book of Mormon 'peoples in Mexico and South America. Probably those fine spirits who indited the pages of the smaller and the larger plates of Nephi, as well as the last of the Nephite historians, never dreamed that their work would have such a profound influence on whites and reds generations after they themselves were in their graves. But such has been the fact. Thousands upon thousands of men and women in the last hundred years bless the names of those writers for having brought peace and hope into their hearts and goodness into their lives; and doubtless many millions yet to come will do the same.