[Vol21 | November 1934 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Teachers' Topic]
Teachers' Topic HAZEL H. BOYACK Pres. Big Horn Stake Relief Society
SUGGESTIVE METHODS FOR VISITING TEACHERS
Introduction
As I look over this congregation I see behind this representative group a large concourse of women, some 24,144 of them, which makes up one of the largest teaching groups of any auxiliary in the Church. Right now thousands are making their first call of the year at the homes in our Church. The time spent in making these visits, including the time of the hostess and her two teacher guests, would be approximately 36,000 visiting hours per month, using 8 hours as a working day (and for women that is too short). It would mean three years' time. Put in the terms of study at college your son or daughter could be well on his or her way toward a Ph. D. Degree if the time of the Visiting Teachers' group were given to him or her for one month. I mention this because the Lord says where much is given much is required. Here lies our challenge, sisters, for our group. Individually, our time is very short, collectively it is a mountain of wealth. If we could arrive at our problems with a unity of purpose how much greater would be our power of solving our Visiting Teacher problems. Surely our field is broad enough, the world is our school room. Our field is comprehensive enough. In it we gather into our ranks the cream of the womanhood of the earth, rich in the experience of life, of motherhood, and in the spirit of service in this great gospel of ours. Let us meet the challenge in giving more of ourselves, of our learning, and of our spirit of love and service. How can we approach our teaching task so we might polish the talents we have and bring a more finished product to our sisters. To begin with we have a different class room than any other teacher. The other class leaders of our organization have an organized group for their work. The sisters have met for a specific purpose of being taught Theology, Literature or Social Service. For you the home is the setting for your lesson. Your approach must be in tune with that setting. Again the problem asserts itself, how can we make a more effective, a more efficient appeal under these circumstances. Sisters, one thing is sure. To meet the exacting demands of the age in which we live, we must measure up professionally to other teachers in our organization. Let us discuss for a few moments some suggestive methods.
I. Know the Women of Your District.
If you have been assigned to a new district, perhaps your first visit will be taken up in getting acquainted. After your visit, index the results of your call. Family No.1. This sister, a mother of three. Time well organized and home run well. Mentally very active. Does considerable Church work. College trained. Has a hobby of so and so. List your methods or philosophy for that sister. Suggestions for approach. Family No. 2. Mother of two children. Likes club and social life. Well trained. Reads extensively. Is indifferent to your message. Notes for approach. Family No. 3. Lives on a farm. Has large family. Works hard. Does not have enough time for study. Is eager for your message. Approach. It seems to me, dear sisters, we have such a marvelous field for individual work and our Visiting Teacher work is surely that.
