[Vol21 | November 1934 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: President Charles H. Hart]
President Charles H. Hart By Elder Melvin J.
Ballard of the Council of the Twelve It is a real pleasure for me to pay this tribute to my life long friend and associate, President Charles H. Hart, who passed away recently after several years of illness which physically incapacitated him from carrying forward his usual work as a member of the First Council of Seventy. My earliest recollection of him was when he came to Logan as a young lawyer and I was but a boy. I recall what an outstanding, alert man he seemed to be. He formed a partnership with another fine and efficient Bear Lake boy?Frank K. Nebeker?who had made his residence in Logan.
Under the firm name of Hart and Nebeker they became the leading lawyers in Cache County. It became a common expression that if Hart and Nebeker took the case they would win it. Personally I have known of many cases which they absolutely refused to take because they did not believe the case had merit or was not on the side of right and justice.
Later when Charles H.
Hart was elevated to the bench as Judge his absolute honesty and fearlessness brought terror to criminals who came before him but brought: peace and absolute satisfaction to those whose cause was just for I recall no instance when his decisions did not seem to give universal satisfaction. Had he continued in the law rather than accepting the call to serve the Church there is no office in that department within the gift of the people of his state that he could not have received. Indeed, I regarded him as being absolutely qualified to sit and do credit to himself and his state in that highest legal tribunal of our country ?the Supreme Court of the United States. When, however, at the very height of his success the call came to him to serve his Church as a member of the First Council of Seventy, he did not hesitate a moment to abandon all these bright prospects and accept this new responsibility. I am sure he did this at a great personal loss financially to himself but many times he said to me, "money isn't everything," and during all the time that he was so actively engaged in the practice of law and administration of justice he was equally devoted to his Church, giving some part of his time in Church service.
Frequently he said to me, "A man who tears himself absolutely away from all Church connection will likely come to have an unbalanced judgment, and the man whether he is in the profession of law or other business who can keep his Church contact keeps his judgment well balanced and finds a PRESIDENT CHARLES H. HART relaxation from the diversion that comes in Church service. President Hart has an outstanding and unusual family of talented boys and girls. I have known every one of them since the time they were little children and there is not a black sheep among them. The mother of these boys and girls gave her life in her effort to honor this noble man with children and to serve them. I have never known a more charming, ideal mother than the first Sister Hart. It has also been my good fortune to know the present Sister Hart, who survives him, from the time of her girlhood. In my judgment Brother Hart could not have selected anywhere in all the Church a more ideal woman to become the mother of his children. She has performed that very difficult task of taking the place of their mother in as ideal a way as any woman I have ever known and I know that every one of the children love her as they do their own mother.
That is the finest evidence that she has been successful. It has been my good fortune many times to travel with President Hart to various of the Stakes of Zion and to know the worth of his ministry. I have never known a more faithful, conscientious, devoted RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE servant of the people than President Charles H. Hart. He never talked without giving some message that was faith building and full of thought. He had a logical mind and his messages were always listened to and they made good impressions.
There was no sacrifice he was called upon to make to serve the Church that he did not make cheerfully?never with a complaining spirit. He entered into the living of Gospel standards so perfectly that they became a very part of his life. He was a perfect gentleman here and he will be a perfect gentleman in the Court of the King where he now goes to labor in the same great cause that he made so many sacrifices to serve here. By reason of his having subscribed to these Gospel standards of living he shall find himself happy and prepared to carry on the great missionary labor that is the outstanding ministry which the life that follows this offers to every faithful man or woman? to bring light and knowledge and understanding to those souls who have died without that knowledge and prepare them for their place of salvation, glory or exaltation in the kingdom God has provided for his sons and daughters. President Charles H.
Hart is well trained and equipped for that great ministry in the future. Relief Society Conference By Julia A. F. Lund The semi-annual Conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, Utah, October 3 and 4, 1934, with 19
