[Vol21 | November 1934 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature]

Literature. We have seen and will continue to see as we study it that great literature depicts life?its experiences and adventures. It shows the play of human emotions, the strivings and failures and successes of life, the forces that continually act and react on people making them what they are. We have learned that certain characteristics are ever present in man whether he be savage or highly civilized?love and hate, joy and sorrow, jealousy and altruism. We have seen how Ulysses-like man has ever reached up to the light and has striven, sought and found. We hope you will ever bear in mind the purpose of the course which is to bring a fuller understanding of life. We hope that through the course our members will become greater readers, greater book lovers, greater students of life and that they will get the joy that comes from communing with great minds who have in books recorded the best of their thoughts. This year's Life and Literature lessons will be: The Novel A Human Document (two lessons). The Novel A Social Record. Poetry?Wordsworth. Poetry?New Themes and New Voices. Modern Biography. Today's Drama. What Every Woman Knows?A Mother's Day Program. The World of Books. Remember that it is the teacher's duty to select the parts that fit her group, to outline, emphasize, hold together and to make a general assignment that will awaken the class's curiosity and lead the members to immediately begin to study the assigned lesson. She should see that choice bits are read, that some memory work is done and that the majority of the class take part in the discussion. When Mrs. Jacob finished the last lesson she said, "The course 'Life and Literature' is ended. It has aimed to perform a single task, to look at life through literature, hoping that the vision of our own destiny may become clearer and that perchance some particular message of comfort may have been gleaned for each individual." May its aim be fully realized.
VALUE OF BOOKS?THE NOVEL ROSANNAH C. IRVINE Member of General Board
Within easy reach of all is an enchanted garden. In it live the most delightful people?our book friends. When you have made their acquaintance they are always available. They will accompany you in your work and in your leisure. You forget your troubles in the charm of their presence. They change your viewpoint on life. They carry you beyond your own narrow sphere.
It is an advantage to know worthwhile people. Our human companions are relatively few. But there is an unlimited number whom we can know intimately in books. The more you cultivate their acquaintance the more real they become. John Macy says, "Not to read books is like being shut up in a dungeon while life rushes by outside." Years ago novels were in disrepute. Today they are recognized as an indispensable part of education. The novel is the only absolute source from which we learn how our fellowmen spend their lives. It is a vital means of education as well as of pleasure. For example, it would take a long and arduous course in history to learn of the Norman conquest of England what we gain from a delightful reading of Ivanhoe. The novels of Sir Walter Scott have done more to enlighten people on the beauty and grandeur of Scotch scenery and medievalism than anything that has ever been written. The natural craving for an intimate knowledge of humanity is demonstrated in the popularity of the drama, the cinema, magazines, newspaper photogravures, and novels. Someone has called the novel the pocket theatre. It is said that a thorough knowledge of the Bible and Shakespeare is an education. However, one could hardly be considered well read without an acquaintance with the great characters of fiction. The holy name of Deity when misused becomes the most sinful and vile profanity. In much of the modern fiction the sacred and intimate relations of life become sordid, vulgar and degrading. To deliberately sit down to enjoy an afternoon of filthy reading is to my mind incredible and foreign to high thinking. It is demoralizing, unwholesome, and entirely unnecessary. We cannot keep clean by digging in filth. We miss the stars if we spend our time raking in muck. A small boy crossing a stream on a narrow log was warned that he would be soiled if he fell in. He replied, "Sure. That's why I look up at the sky." Don't read trash. Don't be afraid of great authors or the word "classic." Be friendly with your book friends. Don't be disheartened if the first reading of a masterpiece is disappointing. Read it until you discover its value. Do some worthwhile reading daily, learn to love reading. Learn to know the greatest characters in fiction. Treat yourself occasionally to a great novel, even if you miss a meal. A well filled mind can live above an empty stomach. Remember that reading masterpieces of fiction will bring you pleasure and culture. It will enhance your value as a personality.