[Vol21 | November 1934 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Session]

If you can build a relationship of harmony, confidence and love in your group; if you can have a purpose every time you appear, and make that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE purpose known and felt and really acted upon by your group, then carefully survey your subject matter, supplemented from a broad reading, have an appealing method in presentation, and above all, if you can have that close harmony, and be clothed with the Spirit of our Heavenly Father, I know that you can improve teaching work in the Relief Society. May the Lord help us to be humble, to be sincere, and to be learning individuals.
Theological Department Kate M. Barker, Chairman
PROFESSOR ALICE L. REYNOLDS B. Y. U.
THE THEOLOGICAL CLASS LEADER
In the midst of the confusion of this age how can we fathom the justice, the mercy, the loving kindness of Our Heavenly Father who revealed Himself to the boy prophet that he might proclaim to the whole world that he had seen the Father and that truly we are made in His image?
Then to the young enquirer He spoke only a few words, so few that they can almost be counted on the fingers of one hand: "This is My Beloved Son, Hear Him!" Few words indeed, but of all words the most significant, for in that instant the form of The Godhead was definitely established and the divinity of the Son declared by the Father. In the midst of the denial of great fundamental truths in high places, sometimes in places that are called Churches, the Latter-day Saints have a knowledge of the Father's Being, an indisputable testimony of His divinity. How much more than in the day in which the glorious vision was given is this matter important, for then most Christians apparently believed in the divinity of Christ. The theology teacher of the present day has the opportunity to preach these precious truths. May I use a stronger word, aye, the responsibility. How splendidly is this knowledge builded in the Doctrine and Covenants, how many of the revelations employ language similar to this: "Harken, My Servant John, and listen to the words of Jesus Christ, your Lord and your Redeemer." A theology teacher must permeate her teaching with her testimony.
Never leave your listeners in doubt, concerning your convictions.
Many persons would rather know your attitude towards the things you are teaching than anything else. Do you believe the things you are teaching, reading and saying? Has your life's experience given support to all these things? If it has, the members of your class who are every day facing the stern reality of life want to know it. Be sure that in some way that seems best to you you RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE let them know these things. The testimonies we hear from one another help to sustain us in our daily lives. And now last of all I would point to the opportunity all teachers of theology have to bid people lift up their hearts and rejoice.
True it is that many are suffering grave losses, others are in economic straits, and yet others are carrying heavy burdens of responsibility.
Some are ill and others are grief stricken, yet the Lord has not withdrawn any of his promises and great and glorious are the promises made to those who diligently serve him. In the early days of the Church the people sang, "Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation," and "Joy to the World the Lord will come," with full meaning. Can we not do so now?
Think of it, we are nearly one hundred years nearer the consummation of all our great hopes than they were, why should we not rejoice in added measure? And last of all I would remind you of the admonition of our Lord that "we search the Scriptures for in them ye think ye have eternal life," and eternal life is the greatest gift of God.
Yours is the task to make living and vital to others all the glories of the "Doctrine and Covenants."
What a joyous calling. May Christ our Lord and our Redeemer add his blessings.