Music Appreciation (Address given at the Choristers' and Organists' Department, April 4, 1934.) By Elise B. Alder
"When gripping grief the heart doth wound And doleful dumps the mind oppress, Then music with her silver sound, With speedy help will lend redress."
MR. ALEXANDER MEROVITCH, president of the Musical Art Management Corporation, says that in the past two decades the love of good music in America has increased considerably. This is an interesting fact considering that only a short time ago the average American citizen knew practically nothing about music. Today, the average American citizen has a knowledge of values in music. This acquired culture is a direct result of the gratifying manner in which the women of America have staunchly supported all forms of musical art. The general public perhaps is not aware that in practically every town and city in America there are active women's music clubs—all eager to absorb the art of those who come to these shores to express themselves in their chosen field. And yet oddly enough, he continues, there are scoffers, especially in Europe, who declare America is not a musical country. What an unjust statement this is indeed.
Mr. Merovitch pointed out that there are approximately five thousand women's clubs in America today. How much we will soon be able to add to this if we live up to the requirements of our Relief Society work. We know of nothing more genial and heart-warming than to hear the whole Relief Society joining in a hymn or song led by one of our competent choristers. One author says: "The human voice is the most perfect musical instrument ever made; and well it might be, for it had the most skillful maker."
Some years ago twenty thousand people gathered in the old Castle Garden in New York to hear Jennie Lind sing, as no other songstress ever had sung, the sublime composition of Beethoven and Handel. At length the Swedish Nightingale thought of her home, paused and seemed to fold her wings for a higher flight. She began with deep emotion to pour forth "Home Sweet Home." The Audience could not stand it. An uproar of applause stopped the music. Tears gushed from those thousands of eyes like rain. Beethoven and Handel were forgotten—After a moment the song came again seemingly as from Heaven, almost angelic—That was the song that bound as with a spell, twenty thousand souls, and John Howard Payne triumphed over the great master of song.
We, too, can touch the hearts of our people with song if we try, even more than others as we have the spirit of our wonderful gospel to inspire us. It is said the human soul is a mighty harp and all its strings vibrate to the gush of music. Last year in our Stake Conference Conventions we were thrilled and tears came to our eyes when we heard the beautiful singing. Many of our Stakes learned well the five songs we asked them to learn, viz: Holy Redeemer, Come, Come Ye Saints, Come Thou Glorious Day of Promise, I Passed by Your Window, Brahm's Lullaby. In other Stakes our program was almost ignored. Why, we do not know. We regret this, we are so anxious to have our work uniform. Cooperate with us this coming year and begin at once to learn the five pieces we have selected for you, viz: God Moves in a Mysterious Way, Tho' Deepening Trials, I Think When I Read that Sweet Story of Old, The Lost Chord, Sleepers Wake. Should some of these suggested be too difficult we give four others—The Prayer Perfect, Teach me to Pray, Jocelyn's Lullaby, As the Dews from Heaven Distilling.
Observe closely the interpretation Mrs. Sackett gives to these songs when she presents her demonstration this afternoon. Get the spirit. Put your whole soul into your work, glorify it. Magnify it and instill the spirit of good music into the lives of the Relief Society women. One writer says: If music is to prove itself the most Spiritual of all the arts, it must do so by aid of the audience. A good chorister and organist will try to educate the people with whom they labor not only to sing but to listen. What we need is a little simple instruction for listeners, giving them not only the inspiring idea of what their presence means to us, but also showing them how they can actually hear the music inwardly, and so become a very part of it. One of the simplest things for a music lover they tell us, is to learn not to look but to listen. I once read of a young girl who went to a recital of a well known pianist whose blond hair was much admired by his feminine followers and she said "Oh, it was a wonderful recital, I can't remember what he played, but his hair looked so lovely against the blue curtain!"
OUR organists have a wonderful opportunity to educate our women by being well prepared in their preliminary music. But when they rush to their meetings not knowing what music they are going to play to quiet them and put them in a receptive mood for what is to come, it is no wonder they do not stop talking to listen. If you will choose the best and be well prepared it will surprise you what beneficial results will follow. One writer says: "Musical education, of a simple sort, will do more than the average mind can imagine to reconstruct society." If you work hard and to the plan given you can expect inspiration to help you in your work and I can promise you it will come.
MICHAEL PUPIN, our great inventor, in his book "From Immigrant to Inventor" tells how when a poor peasant lad in Serbia tending the sheep at night on the hills with only a piece of black bread to eat, he saw, the burning stars in the blackness of a summer midnight sky and felt in his heart, The Heaven's declare the glory of God, and the light of the stars and the sound of grazing oxen, faint strokes of the distant church bells, were messages like the loving words of a Friendly Power without whose aid we were helpless. Here in the quiet of the night enjoying the beauty of the world he received the inspiration which resulted in all the fine things he has accomplished. Just so can we receive inspiration for our work.
LET us pause and think and ask ourselves these questions—Do we glorify our calling and love our work? Is it a pleasure to us? Are we willing to take time to prepare ourselves for our work? Do we appreciate the opportunity we have of helping others to understand the beauty in music? There is nothing that enriches ones life more than music if we choose the true for it arouses noble feelings. Jazz is not true music it does not appeal to the finest emotions. By the turn of the dial on the radio we can choose. Which program are we choosing, Walter Damrosch or Rudy Vallee? Walter Damrosch through his nation-wide school program has become the most influential force in music appreciation in the United States. The good he has done over the radio through the schools can not be estimated; his influence has been felt in the home by you and me. I am wondering how many of this fine group have been listening to him each Friday morning between 9 and 10 o'clock. I am also wondering how many of you have heard our Relief Society Singing Mothers led by Mrs. Charlotte O. Sackett and her accompanist Mrs. Alta B. Cassity the last three Sundays over K. S. L. We are proud of these singers, we can feel through them our love for music broadening. Are we taking time to do our work well or are we just rushing through most any way and missing the inspiring beautiful things of life. Are we flying through the country seeing nothing and listening to music all day on the radio hearing nothing? Or are we taking time to reflect, to think about things and get the beauty out of life and the inspiration that will come to us if we will put ourselves in tune. Let us take a lesson from the old negro Rastus who one day entered a corner drug store and asked to use the phone, called up a number, dropped a nickel in the slot and on hearing the familiar "hello" said; "Is this Mrs. Simson?"
"Yes," was the reply.
"Do you need a gardener?"
"No I have a gardener," came the answer.
"Would you like to change or are you perfectly satisfied with your gardener?"
"I do not care to change, I am perfectly satisfied," she said.
"Alright goodbye," and he hung up the phone.
Just as he was going out of the door the druggist called to him and said, "Say Rastus, aren't you Mrs. Simson's gardener?"
"Yes I is Mrs. Simson's gardener but I was just checking up on myself."
My dear Choristers and Organists, let us check up on ourselves to see if we are doing our work as we should. Making the lives of our women sweeter and more joyous through our music. It takes your sincere efforts to make our Relief Society work what we want it to be, it is your touch that gives the inspiration to the meetings and to the lessons in hand. Ella Wheeler Wilcox says:
Love thyself last, look near, behold thy duty To those who walk beside thee down life's road, Make glad their days by little acts of beauty, And help them bear the burden of earth's load.
Love thyself last and thou shalt grow in spirit, To see, to know, to hear and understand The message of the stars, lo! Thou shalt hear it, And all God's joys shall be at thy command.
Music Appreciation—Let that be your aim the coming year.