Happy Mothers By Marba C. Josephson VERY mother wishes her children to be happy and progressive in their school work. But she hesitates in attempting to direct them at home for fear that she may do more harm than good. The ParentTeacher Association has done much in creating a cooperative spirit between home and school. Even so, this organization does not show mothers the actual methods followed in the classroom. Teachers are eager to give helpful suggestions to aid in the development of the pupils. But mothers must give them the opportunity to make these suggestions. Mothers may get this information from visiting the class recitations of their children. It is a strange fact that the child at home is often quite a different person from the child of the school-room. At home, he may be self-confident and capable. In school, his confidence has melted; his ability to perform the assigned tasks seems to have evaporated. He is ill at ease with the other children. His uneasiness may be merely the result of a difference in clothing or grooming—details which parents too often consider trivial. To the child, however, the matter of being like the group is essential. Unless parents see the child in his class, they cannot sense this difference which is oppressing him. His mannerisms at home may pass unnoticed but, in the school-room, they are magnified and react to his disadvantage. Mothers need to see their children in the impartial light of the classroom among children of the same age. The correction of the clothing or grooming which retards the child is a relatively easy matter. It is usually possible to secure knickers for him, if that is what the others of his group are wearing. His hair can be cut in the same fashion as that of the rest of the class. On the other hand, when the lack of self-reliance is deeply seated in the heart and soul of the child, the mother has a real problem. ONE of the first steps is to make the child learn how to obey simple commands quickly, quietly, and correctly. If body and mind learn coordination, self-confidence will be the result. An effective command game can be manufactured at home. The children can cut from old magazines the pictures of common objects (boy, girl, cat, dog, man, woman, baby, ship, tree, etc.) Then they can mount them on some of the cardboards begged from the grocer. After the pictures are ready, the kiddies may invite two or three ot the neighbor children to join in the sport. They get fun from placing the pictures around the room. After they have seated themselves in a row, mother begins issuing the commands: "Take the baby and put it by the woman, Bobby." When Bobby has performed the task, the children show their approval by clapping for him. Mother now directs others of the children to do similar things. When the game is started she must give each child a single sim368 ple command. Soon she can make the directions more complicated— being extremely careful to voice her commands distinctly and slowly enough for the youngsters to follow without becoming confused. Even a two-year-old can join in this game satisfactorily and happily. The game should not be played too long at any one time. Ten or fifteen minutes is usually long enough. The practice of printing the name of the objects on the pictures helps immeasurably in word-recognition. Above the picture, print the word starting it with a capital letter; print the word below using all small letters. The children quickly learn the word even without looking at the picture. Another command game can be played by directing the children to run and touch various objects in the room as they are called out. If the children become tired from this game, they may be rested by playing the silence game. They sit or lie on the floor, closing their eyes. They listen attentively and tell in order what they hear. This restful exercise has much to recommend it in these days of noisiness and bustle. While these little visitors are in the home, marching can be enjoyed. Jumping and clapping songs can be played. It is well to let each child be a leader in one activity. The neighbor children may desire to join in a program. Programs must be held (every night, if possible) for the family alone, in addition to the special days when the neighbors are part of the performance. THE children must. Be praised for their recitations and their songs. They should receive encouragement RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to retell the stories which they read in school. They can be taught little songs at home which they can dramatize. Cute little recitations can be selected by mother and occasionally an original poem will enliven the evening. Even the tiny baby who can use his hands is able to follow little finger plays to take his part in the family program. In every way mother must evince an interest in the constant development of her children. When Johnny brings home an especially good drawing, she should praise him and place the picture in a position of honor for a few days. A small wall-board can be made inexpensively by any amateur carpenter in the household. This can be hung in the living-room. With thumb tacks, the pictures can be easily displayed and as easily removed. It is an inspiration to watch the beatific smile on Johnny's face as his picture is displayed for all to see. When Mary gets a hundred in her hardest subject, she needs a little compensation. Maybe it will be only a handful of raisins, or a dish of her favorite fruit. Yet something a bit out of the ordinary must be done for her. If at the end of her term the report card is above reproach, it is her privilege to choose what surprise she wishes as her treat for the whole family—a cake, a pudding, or cookies. Her heart will swell almost to bursting and her determination to keep up the good work will be intensified. Mother's duty is to praise and reward—surely a much more worthwhile occupation than to punish and find fault. The results of a positive encouragement are always more permanent than those from a negative, adverse HAPPY MOTHERS criticism. The children will know that mother's interest in them is ever-present. Older people may realize the significance of silent service. But children require oral commendation and tangible rewards. Another way in which mother can be of great help is to get supplementary work for the children to do at home. This means that she must be especially careful to see that she is working in harmony with the methods in use in the schools of her particular locality. Again let me emphasize that she must visit repeatedly to absorb the system. Quite frequently she can get discarded textbooks at a fraction of their original cost from the board of education. She can help with the reading in this way. She can, moreover, pick out certain words and drill on them. One easy way to drill words is to draw and color pictures to illustrate the words which are printed alongside. The sheets with probably six pictures and words can be thumb-tacked to the wall board. In the morning and the evening, mother takes the child to it and has him read the words as she points tothem. Although the child at first looks at the picture, in a surprisingly short time he reads the symbol. Other devices to emphasize word units are by printing the words on paper or on the blackboard, or by having the child pick the words out from magazines or newspapers. By visiting school, mother can learn the methods of teaching arithmetic, writing, spelling, and other subjects; then she will be able to reinforce the training given at school, The children will 369 gain tremendously through this unified development. They will realize that both mother and teacher are pulling together for their best good. Home work will strengthen school training; school activity will receive new impetus from home activity. I found a wealth of helpful material which is published at a minimum cost by the Webster Publishing Company of St. Louis, Missouri. The books cost from fifteen to twenty-five cents postpaid. These projects give the youngsters something definite to accomplish. In these books, the instructions for activity are so varied that the children are entranced and learn happily as well as thoroughly. On birthdays and Christmases, these books will make exceptional gifts. Mother's labor at home to bolster the weak spots will mean an exactness on the part of both mother and child. The good results will come only if she sees that the work is done faithfully every day. On the other hand, if mother never swerves from her schedule, the outcome will more than satisfy her for the effort given. Her children will attain their assured places as leaders of their groups. They will have learned an invaluable lesson in study habits. But, above everything else for happy mothers to treasure in their hearts, the children will realize that mother is behind them—encouraging, helping, loving them. This confidence, well-established through work and play in youth, will weather the storm of impetuous adolescence and add lustre to mothers' crowns as their children enter adulthood.