" Milk By Lucy Rose Middleton ILK is the most nearly perM fect food we possess, and is certainly our most important single food. Since nature designed it as the complete food for young animals, it is not surprising to find that it contains practically all the essentials of a balanced diet. Its protein is of the highest quality for bodybuilding purposes. Milk, sugar, or lactose, supplies heat and energy. It has the advantage over other sugars of being less susceptible to fermentation and less liable to irritate the stomach. The fat of milk is more readily available to the body than the fats of other common foods except eggs. Tle percentage of fat in milk has long been one of the standards by which milk is tested. An abundance of calcium insures growth and nutrition of bones. Most of the vitamins are present in milk, and it is accordingly a protective food against many of the deficiency diseases. Milk is attractive to the taste of most persons, and can be modified in many ways before  consumption. Finally, milk is usually digested with ease. If we are mindful of its high quality as a'food, milk is really one of the cheapest foods in the dietary. This seems to be generally realized nowadays, for the amount of milk used in the United States has risen steadily. At present the consumption of this food is about one pint per capita per day, in contrast with one-half pint thirty-five years ago. About sixteen per cent. Of the average dietary in this country consists of milk and its products. Children, with a few exceptions, should get about one quart of milk a day, and adults one pint. Milk is not a complete food for older children and adults, since it lacks iron, which is a necessary constituent of the blood. Also, the body has need of foods of a bulkier nature, These are the main reasons why egg yolk, pureed vegetables, and other accessory foods are given to children at an early age. In spite of the superb qualities of good milk as a food, bad and contaminated milk was formerly responsible for as much sickness and death as were caused by impure drinking water. Of all foods, milk is the most difficult to produce and distribute in a cleanly manner. All sorts of bacteria thrive in it, and many epidemics have been traced to impure milk. At present, the production of milk is under rigorous control of health authorities, who insist on standards of cleanliness in barns, health inspection of cows and milkers, and proper handling of milk on its way to the consumers. Carelessly produced milk teems with bacteria, and laboratories can readily determine the cleanliness of milk by counting the bacteria it contains. The grading of milk in accordance with its sanitary quality furnishes the purchaser with a ready method of knowing just what he is buying. Each grade of milk must meet the requirements of a commission of milk standards. A tremendously important additional safeguard against milk-borne diseases is secured by "pasteurizing" milk. In this process, the milk is heated to a temperature of about 145 degrees Fahrenheit for a period of one-half hour. Pasteurizing milk does not appreciably alter its taste or general qualities, since the heat applied is far below the boiling point, but tests have shown that disease germs are practically all destroyed by the procedure.