The Song of the Lark By Arvilla Bennett Ashby
ETHEL THURGOOD stood in the doorway of her beautiful living room. With head bent slightly to one side she appraised her recent work. There was not a vestige of dirt or dust or grime discernible and she turned away with a smile of satisfaction on her face. She spoke to a woman kneeling on the floor of her beautifully furnished dining-room lustily polishing an already shining hard wood surface.
"It is a beautiful room, Martha. When I get through cleaning it, I feel as though I had cleaned the shrine of some temple. I love to work in it. There is nothing that so fills my soul with satisfaction as to see each nook and corner gleaming with cleanliness."
"Well, you certainly know how to keep it that way Mrs. Thurgood. There's no one that can keep house any better than you."
Ethel laughed softly. "I love it, I suppose that is the reason. It is easy for one to do well that which she likes to do."
"I have one half hour in which to dress before the University girls are due. Everything is ready for their inspection, I believe."
"Yes, ma'am, as far as I can see everything is ready."
THE University girls passed eagerly from one part of the beautiful home to another, admiration and interest glowing in their eyes. They seemed to catch the spirit radiated by their guide. Ethel was interested also and very happy. Her face glowed with pride and enthusiasm as she pointed out the various details of her model home. When the inspection was thoroughly completed and the girls and their teacher were discussing each minute detail before departure, Ethel led them to a painting hanging conspicuously on the wall, a picture of "The Song of the Lark."
"Just one more thing to see, girls. Only a picture but how I love it. I have interpreted it in my own way, however. To me the girl is the Lark. She is singing at her work, happy in the accomplishment of something fine. She is listening to her own song of happiness, and how wonderful is the person who can sing at his work and love it. Girls," and her voice rang with a sincerity that held them and forced her point of view upon them, "whether you live in a mansion or a lowly little cottage, if you can love your work you will make a home of it."
Her voice was low, clear, full of feeling. Her eyes shone brightly. She failed to note the entrance of her husband. He stood quietly by the door. There was a slight frown on his brow and his lips curled with a suggestion of sarcastic scorn. He crossed the room presently and waited by the large spacious window, until the girls had gone, then with the frown deepening on his countenance and an angry red suffusing his face, he walked quickly to the picture, tore it from its hangings and sent it hurtling into a farther corner of the room.
"What in heavens name do you want to clutter up a place as beautiful as this with such trash as that for, Ethel? Of all the detestable paintings, it is that peasant woman. What anyone sees about those big hands and feet and that face is more than I can comprehend. Hang anything else in here, but for heavens sake leave that out."
Ethel had hardly realized that her husband had entered the room until she heard the crash and saw a mass of broken frame and glass. She stared at him for a moment, a hurt surprised expression filling her eyes. She had known that he did not especially care for the "Song of the Lark" but he had not evinced a hatred for it before this time. She listened to him for a moment then quietly she walked past him and retrieved the painting from the heap of broken glass.
"I am sorry, Allen. You shall not be bothered with so much as a glimpse of this picture again."
In another moment she was gone and Allen was alone.
ETHEL was trembling when she entered her own room. She was hurt more than she could ever remember of having been before. She looked at her picture. A righteous indignation welled up in her being. It was not so much the painting Allen had scorned. It was the words she had spoken to the girls, words that had come from her very heart and had been meant only for the girls to hear.
She thought of the change that had come over Allen of late. At one time she knew, he would not have done such a thing. His success financially was making a different person of him. He could hardly be termed the patient humble man she had known him to be in days of struggle to make a livelihood. He had of late evinced a pride and haughtiness and a desire to exert undue authority over her that was new in him. He had made money in his chain of garages. He had replaced their humble little home with one of the most beautiful dwellings in the city, located in an exclusive residence section. He had purchased a car that was imposing enough to satisfy the vanity growing in his heart. Despite this he had not forgotten Ethel. He had been most considerate of her and Ethel felt a tenderness towards him regardless of her indignation recently aroused. He had given her luxuries undreamed of and along with them a consideration that not all women experience. "Now, Ethel," he had said. "No more work for my wife. Somehow it has been my dream to see you always dressed well, to see your hands smooth and white and cared for like these rich women care for theirs, Our daughter knows all these tricks but you and I have got to learn them, and now's the time to begin." Tius servants filled the house to take her place in the vast scheme of keeping up a honie. And Ethel had suddenly been given all the leisure in the world. At first she had liked it. She had entered into public activities. She had become a member of various clubs and she accompanied her daughter to operas and theatres, but in time the novelty began to wane. In a 324 sense, she enjoyed these activities but down deep in her being was a desire for a rest, the rest of a quiet evening at home, the rest of a good hard day's labor in her beautiful house and gardens. She said nothing to her husband and daughter concerning these feelings. She felt a little ashamed of her own weakness. "I suppose that," she said to herself, "An old dog can't learn new tricks. Forty isn't so old, however, but goodness, how I have loved my work. It is born and bred in me. My parents and grandparents before me were workers. They loved their work even as I love mine and I can't get away from it. Home keeping is an art to me just as painting or writing is an art to some other woman." If she had not appreciated the sentiment back of her husband's actions, she would 'have dismissed her servants and taken over the reins of house keeping herself. She loved it as a business man loves his business but she had given it up, save only for a little cleaning now and then, because her husband desired her hands to be beautiful and white and soft. 'No wonder he scorned the "Song of the Lark." Well, she wouldn't disappoint him regardless of her own feelings and her own desires. ER bitterness had left her and her voice was calm and controlled as Allen entered the room. The angry sarcastic expression on his countenance had given way to one of humble repentance. His words, when he spoke came slowly, haltingly, in contrast to the quick decisive expressions used a few moments before. "T'm sorry, Ethel, that I acted so. I've been very successful lately— RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE have been making money pretty fast and it sort of turned my head, I guess. I just want to tell you that I'm sorry and want you to hang the picture back where it was." Ethel looker at him for a long moment. This was the real Allen Thurgood that she had always known. She wanted to go to him and laugh away his seriousness. But a certain obstinate feeling held her back. "No, Allen, she said evenly, "I told you before that this picture would not be hung where it could bother you again. Now I repeat that it shall not until you learn to love it, and I believe that someday you will love it as I do." OR a time Allen's success seemed unlimited. A confidence in himself and his own business judgment took root and grew rapidly. He invested his money in this and that business deal and saw quick results, results that were gratifying indeed. Then there came suddenly a change in affairs. He became stricken with a severe case of rheumatic fever. For weeks he lay helpless, wracked with pain, utterly unable to hold the reins of his business transactions. Where he had hitherto been making great gains financially, he began to lose. In some instances his losses were enormous, eating heavily into his capital, His mind, under the new weight of illness, seemed utterly unable to cope with the situation and he realized that he was losing the greater part if not all of what he had slaved to acquire. But, then he had his business. Just let him regain his old health and vigor and he would be ready to fight again, in the manner in which he nad learned to fight in days gone by. His health however, was not so THE SONG OF THE LARK easily regained. He called in eminent physicians and their decree was that he must move to a high dry climate if he expected or even hoped for a complete recovery of health. Tnen business suddenly underwent a severe slump. Business houses and banks were going on the rocks all about him. He came to realize that he was only one of many who were losing in the race. Nevertheless he held his courage. There was a slight mortgage on two of his. Finest garages, mortgages that he had taken out just previous to his illness, to avoid drawing on his accumulated capital, and at the same time permit him to speculate more heavily. He would sell his home and clear that off. Later he could build another home as beautiful or more so, than the one he now owned. He found that his home would not sell for nearly the sum he had expended on it. He held out, determined to get his price and held off till property dropped to nothing. His home was on his hands and his garages were taken over to pay the debt he owed on them. N the course of a very short time Allen Thurgood found himself ynce more a poor man. He was left with two pieces of property; his home and a beautiful stretch of canyon land, located in a distant part of the state. He 'had bought it in a fit of extravagance. And had built on it a summer home. To this home they were compelled to go. They were to eke out an existence in the very spot he had planned on being merely a luxury; a place to go for summer comfort. He finally sold his home at a sacrifice and the money thus gained was to be used to continue their daughter's education and to keep 325 them in necessities until they could supplement it later on. Their canyon home was an unusually beautiful site. The soil was rich and loamy, capable if worked properly, of yielding an abundance of truck garden stuff. This they could find ready sale for in a nearby mining town. They decided on setting out a young orchard also, thus using: every foot of ground available. Though Allen was able to do a part of the work, he realized that the greater part had to be done by Ethel if it were to be done at all. His health, though very much improved, would not permit him to do much and he choked down the hurt that he felt at bringing her to the state where she had to struggle like this to see them live. Ethel entered into it willingly. Her love for work meant much to her now and she welcomed the prospects of accomplishing something each day. Though there was much that was hard, almost beyond a woman's strength, she determined to make the best of it and also help to make a home of their canyon investment that they would be proud to call their own. They only partly realized the enormity of their undertaking. Their land was covered with rock and debris that had collected for manv years. This they had to clear away to permit working of the soil. It proved a difficult task. Many of the rocks were large and buried part way in the earth. They had to dig and pry to loosen them from their bed, then they had to be loaded in a -small truck, a remnant of garage days, and hauled away. For weeks they struggled. They laid off the orchard plot, planted it and began anxiously watching it 326 grow. They piped water from a canyon spring to their log home. They made irrigation ditches in readiness for the time when they would have their garden plot in condition for planting. By the middle of summer they were still struggling to get tne land in usable condition. They hired a neighbor farmer to plow the ground that they had cleared and more rocks loomed up to be hauled away. By the time winter set in they were much encouraged. Garden plot was at last in splendid condition for planting. They were ready for a genuine start when spring burst forth again. ETHEL now began in earnest the task of beautifying their home. She seemed to have a magic touch and the five rooms of their log cabin took on the appearance of beauty and hominess that she so dearly loved to see. She drove the bareness, the coldness out, and replaced them with warmth and color and beauty. And Allen watched in silence. The winter passed and Aflen's health was so improved that he was able to take over complete control of 'nis affairs. Ethel could now attend to her work in the house. Spring had hardly made her advent when he went to work. Early morning and late evening found him busy. In due time he was able to begin his spring planting. He worked diligently and in his zealousness, he would not be driven in doors for a mere spring rain and chilly canyon breezes. They proved too much for him finally, and rheumatism gripped him again in its ruthless hands. It did not prove to be a serious attack, but he was compelled to abondon the idea of Their — RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE work and stay in until the weather was warmer and the rheumatism abated again. He was also compelled to see Ethel do that which he had tried so hard to spare her from. He saw her struggle day by day with the garden, the orchard and the home and it was very little he could do to help. His heart ached. To see his wife become the slave that she had come to be, hurt him horribly. Allen became the most humble of men. NE evening Ethel came in rather late after an unusually hard day. She had been irrigating the orchard and garden and she was very tired. She was, more silent than usual and Allen sensing her mood, wrapped himself in a warm bath robe and hobbled out to their spacious porch. Ethel busied herself with little things that had to be done. She let her eyes travel lazily around the room. There didn't seem to be the beauty there that had smiled at her that morning. Somehow it had seemed to diminish through the day. Then suddenly her eyes rested on her old beloved painting "The Song of the Lark." How—how had it come to be hanging there? Surely Allen hadn't—but of course he had retrieved it from its hiding place in the trunk and hung it where she, or was it he, could see it when ever in the room. For a long moment she gazed at it. She forgot her tired feeling. New strength and vigor seemed to flow gently through her being. How she loved this picture and her interpretation of it, the person who could sing at her work. She walked quietly over to it and looked at it for a long moment, then raised her hands and gazed long at them, A smile crept over her feaTHE SONG OF THE LARK tures and lingered there. Her hands were no longer the hands of a lady, they were the nands of the peasant woman, gnarled, coarse, rough and brown. But some how she did not mind. She liked the meaning back of their appearance, the work they signified. She glanced up suddenly toward the door. Allen was standing in the doorway watching ner. There were tears gleaming in his tired eyes. She let her hands fall down quickly, put them back of her and looked pensively at him. "Don't Ethel," he said chokingly. 327 "Don't hide your hands like that." He approached her slowly. "TI love to look at them more than I ever loved to look at hands before. I know the meaning back of their appearance. He came closer, took her hands in one of his and drew her to him. She rested her head lightly against his shoulder. They almost instinctively turned toward "The Song of the Lark" and gazed long at it. Neither spoke but Ethel knew that Allen had learned to love it even as she had said he would. According to divine definition, intelligence is light and truth (Doc. & Cov. 93:36) Intelligence is thus more than mere knowledge; indeed, it consists of both knowledge and wisdom to act properly. Lucifer undoubtedly possesses much knowledge but he fails in its proper application, and therefore does not possess true intelligence. Acts of wrongdoing are never acts of intelligence. When Lucifer was "in authority in the presence of God" (Doc. & Cov. 76:25), he doubtless possessed a high degree of intelligence, but this was lost through disobedience and wrongdoing. —Dr. Frederick J.