Our Presidents By Sarah M. McLelland MEMBERS of the McKinley Ward Relief Society of Wells Stake gave a very successful entertainment on March 15, 1934, in honor of the 92nd anniversary of the Relief Society organization. A tableau commemorating the founding of the Relief Society was given. The two songs, "Now Let Us Rejoice" and "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning," which were sung at the first meeting in Nauvoo, were sung at the opening and closing of the tableau. All of the six past General Presidents were portrayed by women beautifully gowned as near as possible like the characters they represented. President Louise Y. Robison, seventh General President, was a guest of honor, and as she entered the scene dressed in black velvet, she was presented with a bouquet of green and white carnations by dainty little Noreen Cutler. Standing graciously in her majesty awaiting silence after the applause, her kind, inspiring influence for good was felt by everyone. The Ward Bishopric appeared following Sister Robison, and a poem of appreciation for their co-operation with the Relief Society, written by Elizabeth Hanson, was read. The curtain was stayed while the congregation sang, "Come, Come, Ye Saints." A splendid exhibit of quilts, remodeled clothing and other work done by Relief Society women was on display. Dainty refreshments were served. Sister Sarah M. McLelland read a brief sketch of the life of each General President as she introduced her: EMMA HALE SMITH EMMA HALE SMITH was the first President of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In July, 1830, her husband, Joseph Smith, received a revelation saying she was to be called an Elect Lady, and her office was to comfort her husband in his afflictions, to travel with him as his scribe, to expound the scriptures and exhort the Church. She was to make a selection of sacred hymns to be used in the congregations of the Saints; a duty which she fulfilled. During her husband's life she was his constant companion, accompanying him on many dangerous and unhappy journeys, and giving him all the comfort and support she possibly could. She reared a small family under hazardous conditions. Her task was not an easy one. During the persecutions of the Saints she visited Governor Ford of Illinois and presented a memorial in behalf of her people praying for justice. Protection and mercy. During 'her life she lived up to the requirements of the revelation given her. She died April 30, 1879, and is buried by the side of her husband near his home on the hanks of the Mississippi River. In honor of Joseph Smith, husband of Emma Smith, Brother Alvin Keddington rendered the solo. "The Seer." ELIZA ROXEY SNOW ELIZA ROXEY SNOW, the second President of the Relief Society, was the first secretary of the General Relief Society in Nauvoo. 350 She was a pioneer in very deed, and one whose gifts were many. In youth she began her literary career. Her educational attainments qualified her for that leadership which served her well in after years. She was a Poetess and a Priestess among her people. Soon after her arrival in Salt Lake Valley, having walked a good deal of the way and driven her own oxen, she organized in 1854 under the direction of Brigham Young, Relief Societies in the wards and stakes. She assisted in the organization of the Young Woman's Retrenchment Society, later called the Mutual Improvement Association and also helped organize the Primary Association. In 1872 she visited Palestine with her brother, the late President Lorenzo Snow, the object of the journey being to dedicate the Holy Land for the return of the Jews. She held the position of President of all women's organizations by common consent, and in 1880 President John Taylor appointed her as President of the Relief Society of the Churcn, which position she filled until her death in 1887. Eliza R. Snow gave to the people the hymn, "Oh My Father," and they have been singing it ever since.. (The Relief Society Women's Chorus sang, "Oh My Father.") ZINA D. HUNTINGTON YOUNG ZINA D. H. YOUNG was sustained President of the Relief Society in 1888. This gracious and kindly woman was greatly beloved by her associates. She was known far and wide for her charity and tender ministrations in the homes of the people. She was a motherly, saintly type of woman and had a soft voice and a quiet dignity that appealed to the hearts of the people. She was lovingly called "Aunt RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Zina." She was the grand-daughter of Samuel Huntington, one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence. She was a member of the Nauvoo Relief Society, figuring as a ministering angel among the sick and distressed. After her husband's death she became the wife of Brigham Young. She was the mother of three children and also raised as her own, four of his children. She was the first Mormon woman to take a course in nursing. She was blessed with the gift of healing and was a natural nurse. She was also a natural teacher and taught the pioneer children in school and in Sunday School. She was an eloquent speaker who thrilled her audience. She presided over the women in the Salt Lake Temple when it was dedicated. She died in August, 1901. (In honor of this faithful teacher the Women's Chorus sang, "The Teacher's Work Is Done.")
BATHSHEBA SMITH
BATHSHEBA SMITH, the fourth President of the Relief Society, was a charter member of the Relief Society in Nauvoo when nineteen years of age. She was wont to repeat the events of the occasion and to tell of the personality of Emma Smith to the solemn interest of all who had the opportunity to hear her. She married George A. Smith, first counselor to Brigham Young. She had two children born in Nauvoo, but her infant son died while there. A great sorrow came to her when her eldest son, when on a mission to the Indians, was killed by them in 1860. He was met by a band of Navajos who seemed friendly, but afterward turned on him and killed him. She officiated at the opening of the Nauvoo, Logan and Salt Lake Temples and worked in the latter for many years. She gave service in every kind of Relief Society work. Her portrait occupies an honored place in our State Capitol building. (A violin solo, "Though Deepening Trials Throng Your Way," was played by Lucille McDonald.)
EMMELINE B. WOODWARD WELLS
EMMELINE B. WELLS, the fifth President of the Relief Society, from early childhood gave promise of most unusual talent. She was a graduate with a teacher's certificate at fifteen. At fourteen she accepted the gospel and was baptized. While in Nauvoo she had many opportunities to hear the Prophet Joseph teach the people. All through her life she related incidents of testimony with earnestness and fervor. She came to Utah in 1848. She was the mother of five children, an ardent worker in the Relief Society and for Suffrage and never failed to cast her vote, always walking to the polling places. In 1877 she became editor and publisher of the "Woman's Exponent." For 39 years her pen was never idle. She was a brilliant writer in defense of her people. She published a volume of her poems and wrote the beautiful hymn, "Our Mountain Home So Dear." The mission of gathering wheat during the World War was given to her, and she received a personal call from President Woodrow Wilson, who thanked her in behalf of the government for the Relief Society wheat. She traveled extensively in the stakes of Zion and in foreign lands. On her hundredth anniversary a marble bust was placed in the State Capitol in her honor. On the pedestal is carved, "A fine Soul who served us." (The Relief Society Women's Chorus sang Sister Wells' hymn, "Our Mountain Home So Dear.")
CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS
CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS, sixth President of the Relief Society, was the first Utah daughter to attain this exalted position. The preceding five presidents were women of early Church history, converts to the faith, and pioneer mothers. She was the daughter of George Albert Smith and Susan West Smith. Sister Williams taught school, then later married William N. Williams on the eve of his departure for a mission. She continued her school teaching until his return. She was the mother of nine children, and her home was known for its hospitality. To know her was to love her. Sister Williams served in every capacity of the Relief Society work. She traveled extensively in the interest of the work both at home and abroad. The Relief Society has established a loan memorial for the training of public health nurses in which she was interested. She put the Society on a sound business basis. Many civic activities along educational and progressive lines claimed her assistance. She held many offices and positions in other lines. She was broad minded and had a pleasing personality, and was well qualified by nature and training for the leadership to which she was appointed. She died March 8, 1930. Sister Williams' favorite hymn was, "Come, Come Ye Saints," and this song will be sung as the closing number of the program.
LOUISE Y. ROBISON
LOUISE Y. ROBISON, the seventh President of the Relief Society, was born of goodly parents whose teachings she has righteously followed. She has given service in the Church since childhood. She is gifted with spirituality, love and tolerance, and a pleasing personality. She has made a place in the hearts of the people never to be forgotten. At the time of the World War Sister Robison was active in Red Cross work. She was an instructor in surgical dressing and supervisor of the gauze room for the Granite Stake. For this service she received a beautiful enameled pin only worn by those who truly serve. The Relief Society at her suggestion launched a campaign for home beautification, the result of which was quite remarkable. She has constantly visited the wards and stakes. She represents the Travelers Aid Society. She has been a delegate to many conventions during the six years of her administration. The work has been carried on to a high state of efficiency under her guidance. She is intensely interested in Genealogy and Temple work. She possesses the faith and courage that make one strong in overcoming difficulties, and she inspires others with a determination to make good. She is the mother of six children. We consider it an honor and privilege to have Sister Robison with us tonight, and would appreciate hearing from her, after which, one of her favorite hymns, "The Morning Breaks," will be sung by the Relief Society Woman's Chorus. We express our love and appreciation to our President with flowers.
Tableau Commemorating the Organization of the Relief Society, McKinley Ward, Wells Stake, also Bishopric of Ward. President Anderson and President Robison and Noreen Cutler