Notes From the Field
Juab Stake:
THE accompanying picture is quite a chapter from Relief Society in the lives of our L. D. S. Women. It represents five generations, ranging in age from the babe in arms, a few months old, to the great-great-grandmother 89 years of age. The four generations have been actively engaged in Relief Society work in all its various forms of activity, and such groups constitute the strength of our organization in all our stakes and wards.
Attendance. The Alton Ward, forty five miles distant, had 100% teachers present. One of the interesting features of the morning session was the awarding of the literary text book The Story of the World's Literature, to four of the wards, making their 100% teaching for the past six months. This is felt to be the beginning of more efficient teaching in the stake. Dainty refreshments were served from 12 noon to 2 p. m., to three hundred people. The beautiful decorations of paper flowers were furnished by the Fredonia Ward. From 2 to 4 p. m. The public was entertained with a sacred pageant "The Beatitudes," wherein the teachings of the Savior were portrayed in story and song with more than fifty people participating. Each ward composed and conducted an act picturing the theme of its beatitude. The many beautiful lessons shown will not soon be forgotten.
Mrs. Marie T. Peterson, Sitting; Mrs. Leona P. Belliston and Daughter, Ara; Mrs. Annie S. Peterson, Mrs. Caroline P. Thompson
Kanab Stake:
ONE of the most successful events of the season's activities was the stake teachers' convention held in Kanab, June 23, which marked the culmination of the season's work. These conventions are held each year in June, and are constantly growing better. Last year our ward executive committees furnished free transportation for all their visiting teachers, a large percentage of whom were in attendance.
1. STAKE BOARD MEMBERS, KANAB. 2. WARD EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, KANAB. 3. SOME OF THE VISITING TEACHERS WHO ATTENDED THE TEACHERS' CONVENTION, KANAB, JUNE 23.
Moapa Stake (Boulder City Branch):
THE above picture shows the L. D. S. Relief Society in front of the Boulder City chapel. This enterprising organization has an enrollment of 47 women, with an average attendance of 30. Many non-L. D. S. Women appreciate the lessons very greatly, and participate in this fine educational work.
RELIEF SOCIETY, BOULDER CITY BRANCH, MOAPA STAKE
Central States Mission:
THE wide diversity of interest and activity sponsored by Relief Society women is constantly called to our attention. The following note from the Central States Mission is a good example of this. The St. Louis, Missouri, district, during last season, sponsored a canning contest for the purpose of encouraging thrift among the members. A prize was given by the organization to the sisters excelling in this activity. The first prize was a quilt, and other prizes were subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine. The contest proved to be a great success. Women who had never thought of such an activity before proved quite expert in the art, and much fine fruit was saved for Winter supply.
Maricopa Stake:
AMONG the very interesting accounts of the Magazine campaign which was conducted through the Relief Society organization, we feel that Maricopa stake certainly won distinction, as the entire stake claimed 100% subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine, with a total of 550 subscriptions in the stake. The following interesting plan of the campaign was submitted by the Magazine agent for the stake: "In July we held a Relief Society stake picnic for all the sisters of the stake and their husbands. The favors at the evening social were small banks, made from the round half pint size ice cream cartons. These were lacquered blue and decorated with gold. The effect was most telling. During the social the High Council Advisor to the Relief Society gave an excellent talk on the purpose of the bank, as well as humorously warning the sisters not to use the pennies for any other purpose than the Magazine. This scheme of giving to each sister a bank, and having it constantly before her, accomplished the very excellent result reported above."
IN addition to the splendid work which was done in the interest of the Relief Society Magazine, a most delightful story of the work done through the sisters of the Papago (Indian) Ward, is related. The sisters are so earnest and sincere in their desire to put over the plan of Relief Society work, and possibly in all our organization there is not a more beautiful story than the story of the Papagos. Their handwork is beautiful, and in addition to this, they are keenly alive to the opportunities offered through the Relief Society. The above picture is typical of the group, and the sisters who are doing wonderful work with them.
CHILDREN OF PAPAGO WARD PAPAGO WARD, MARICOPA STAKE
Minidoka Stake:
FROM the Minidoka Stake came the following interesting report of activity during the latter part of the year: "As a means of stimulating our visiting teachers in their work, a district teachers' convention was held in connection with our stake convention. The stake gave a prize (a bank to hold the Relief Society Magazine pennies), to the ward having the best representation of visiting teachers present. This was given to the Eden Ward who had 100% of their teachers in attendance. We have asked that each ward have two banks (one for the Magazine and one for the Annual Dues), and that each member pay her pennies weekly. The secretary has a membership card upon which a record of this is kept. We hope in the future this will do away with the Magazine trouble and result in more paid-up dues."
"Each ward was requested to bring four articles to demonstrate the work carried over in their work and business meetings. Many beautiful articles were shown and new ideas gained.
"After the convention program a social hour of snappy and appropriate games was enjoyed by all. Luncheon was served to 200 guests. The music for the convention consisted of the five songs specified by the General Music Committee of Relief Society as a Summer project for 1933.
"Our stake is taking advantage of the State Extension Department work under the supervision of Magdalene Clements. Home beautification and preservation of foods have been given. Making-over clothing will be taken up during the Winter months."
New Zealand Mission:
FROM the secretary of the southernmost Relief Society in the world comes the good tidings of great interest in Relief Society work. This branch is in the South Island of New Zealand. The organization is small, but most enthusiastic. While far removed from the other groups the members are keenly alive to the importance of the work. The meetings are held in the home of the president each week, and as far as possible the instructions received through the Magazine are followed.
FROM Mission Headquarters, in Auckland, New Zealand, we have received the picture below, which was taken of a pageant given during the last year.
PAGEANT, AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Mary Connelly Kimball Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman