YOUNG MOTHERS, By Holly Baxter Keddington JUNE, the month of roses, weddings and vacation plans. If you have children who are of school age you have no doubt wondered just how Mary or John can best spend the three months of vacation. "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy" is a very true bit of philosophy but a few well chosen chores for both boy and girl, not only help the child, but can be a help to the mother. These are some of the little tasks my questions to friends have brought for you. All of these tasks are for either boy or girl and you may find a son choosing to make beds and a daughter chopping wood asa preference. If possible let them choose their tasks from a list. Then after one or two weeks a change will renew enthusiasm. Here they are: Errands, watering and cutting lawns, caring for young child, emptying garbage, dusting, making beds, cleaning 'basin and tub, shaking and sweeping small rugs, caring for pets and plants, caring for cupboards and closets, ironing underwear and hankies, caring for their own shoes, sewing buttons on simple apparel, dampening clothes, simple ironing, folding towels, etc., washing smaller windows, setting the table, clearing the table, and then the inevitable dishes. In urban communities these tasks may seem very simple but with the advent of labor saving devices we in the cities and towns find tasks for children getting fewer. INTENDED to give you a list of books for different ages but after visiting the library, bookstores, and writing for radio pamphlets I find the list far too long and the task of choosing would not be easy, so | am listing some of the best recommended ones and those most familiar to me and if you are interested send a stamped, addressed envelope in care of the Magazine, and give the age and sex of your child, I will then send a more complete list to you. 48—Rhymes about Ourselves, Happy Hour Book, Jupie Stories (24), and Tykie. 8-12—-All About Pets, The Enchanted Forest, Alice in Wonderland Series, The Children's Hour (series), The Singing Wood, The Heroes and Waterbabies. 12-15—Every-day Mysteries (science), Blackthorn and other Katherine Adams stories, Pilgrim's Progress, What Makes the World Go Round, Betty Bradford, Engineer, The World We Live In, These United States, Boy'sEye View of the Arctic, and many others. If. A child learns to read good books he need never be lonely for he can go farther and faster by book-way than any other. ERE is a recipe for Sun-kissed Strawberry Jam: I hope the advanced season will not make this come too late for you for it is most delicious. Hull and wash strawberries, pack in measure but do not mash. Add 84 as much sugar as fruit and let stand over night. In the morning stir slightly to get sugar through fruit, bring to boil and cook slowly for 10 minutes, place in shallow bowls or pans in sun. Cover well with clean, close-meshed curtain or mosquito bar, leave out all day in the sun. In the evening bring in, place in Jars and seal with paraffin.