"Little Pretty Pocket Book" By Florence Ivins Hyde II N the realm of juvenile books, there seems to be a tendency during the last fifteen years, to write about other lands. Only three of the Newberry Medal Books have American settings. Others take us to China, Japan, South America, Poland, England, and India. In reading about foreign lands, a child gains valuable knowledge of other countries and an understanding of foreign peoples. The recipients of the medal have been very familiar with the time, the place, and the people of whom they have written. "THE first medal was awarded, in 1922, to Hendrick William Van Loon born in Holland, he came to America where he was graduated from Cornell University. As a boy in Holland, he was left much to himself and spent long hours in his father's library reading books beyond his years. He lived in the past with those books. Today he says, "I know the seventeenth century better than the twentieth." People said that the statue of Erasmus, which he had to pass every day on his way to school, turned a page of the book in his hand every hour, so Hendrick stood hour after hour watching, but he never saw Erasmus turn a single page. It was this experience which made him cease to accept what was told him until after he had made inquiries into the subject himself. His "Story of Mankind" is written in the way he thinks history should be taught to children. Its importance lies in the fact that it was the first book of history to be written in an entertaining style, and at the same time having literary value. It is the only book of history to receive the Newberry Medal. HUGH LOFTING, the second prize winner, was born in England but came to America to attend the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. His "Voyages of Doctor Doolittle" is the first animal book to receive the medal. Mr. Lofting served in Flanders and France during the World War. It was here that Dr. Doolittle was created. The author, himself, says: "My children at home wanted letters from me.... There seemed very little of interest to write to youngsters from the front, the news was either too horrible or too dull. One thing, however, that kept forcing itself more and more on my attention was the considerable part the animals. Were playing in the war.... If we made the animals take the same chances in the war, as we did ourselves, why did we not give them similar attention when wounded? That was the beginning of the idea." Mr. Lofting came home from France determined to do all he could to make war impossible. Mrs. May Lamberton Becker says of him: "I have sometimes wondered if his vision of world understanding and the active and glorious peace that would arise from it, may not have had something to do with the knowledge that Dr. Doolittle has of the language of animals, of birds, and of fish, and the happy fashion in which he interprets one to the other. However that may be you would not know from those quiet tales that they were born among battles. Dr. Doolittle does not preach and neither does Hugh "LITTLE PRETTY POCKET BOOK" Lofting. But a man who writes for children and gives to them the best he has will write the better if his life is fed with high ideals. It is his dream that this may some day be a world reality." It was due to Mrs. Lofting that the letters of her husband were published. They were immediately accepted when she showed them to a publisher. The humor and imaginative quality of this book makes it enjoyed by adults as well as by children. Even if its philosophy is lost on children the author is able to teach lessons of kindness to animals without them realizing it. He says, "No idea is too subtle to be conveyed to a child of eight years provided the story teller is willing to spend the time necessary to find the word forms to convey that idea to the child's mind. A writer can make children understand the meaning of words they have never heard before by placing them in the right context. Children do not want us to come down to their levels. They would sooner be pulled up to ours in both ideas and vocabulary." "THE Dark Frigate,' written by Charles B. Hawes was awarded the prize after the death of its author. Mr. Hawes is the only Newberry winner not living today. The Dark Frigate is a story of buccaneering days in England, filled with thrilling pictures of kidnaping, piracy, bloody adventure and raging seas. In it the author has achieved the thing few writers attain, the combination of excellent literary quality coupled with high adventure. ENGLAND was the birthplace of Chas. J. Finger, another of the Newberry Medal winners. He came to America in 1887 and here his life of travel and adventure began. He traveled in South America, Mexico, 329 and Africa, living among the Indians and learning to speak their language and to understand their thoughts. In "Tales From Silver Lands," he tells the legendary stories of South America based on his own experiences together with the tales he learned from the Indians. These stories were first told to his own children and they selected the ones which should go into his book. There are nineteen tales in all from which we learn how the deer and rabbit came to have no tail at all and the rat a long tail, how the temple at Orinoco came to be built in the very spot where the beautiful princess was freed from the spell which changed her into a dog, how the lazy people decided that after all it was better to work than to loaf, and so on each tale explaining the reason for some custom belief, or human or animal characteristic. ARTHUR CHRISMAN, a Southerner, has gathered together in "Shen of the Sea," old Chinese legends just as Finger has gathered those of South America, except that Chrisman's tales are more imaginary. The basis for many of them were told him in an old section of Hollywood while he was working as a "movie extra." They are all amusing and convincing. The story of Ah Mee who was responsible for the invention of printing, the story of the cook who became king because he could roast duck so well and then introduced chop sticks in place of knives and forks, are fascinating tales. The author writes, "T spent many pleasant hours in writing my books. Say what you please, I made the world a trifle merrier for one person. Now then, the question is who'll say two?" His interesting life provided the originality and sense of fun shown in his writings. 330 SMOKY," a picture of cowboy life stands out among American horse stories. A trapper assumed guardianship of Will James when he was left an orphan. While left alone in the trapper's cabin for weeks at a time, he taught himself to read and write, from old magazines he found around. Then one day the trapper didn't come home and the boy found his guardian's fur cap beside a hole in the ice. For twenty years he wandered around as a cowboy, becoming an expert rider and breaking wild horses. A vicious horse and his career as a trick rider was ended. It was then he began writing for magazines the Stories of his experiences. "Smoky" tells in cowboy language the story of his life.... This language he learned from the fur trapper. For years Smoky frisks and plays learning how to meet life, then he discovers Clint whose kindness wins the horse and they become inseparable. When Smoky is stolen by a half-breed, he reverts to a wild horse and kills his enemy. Finally he and Clint are reunited and "the heart of Smoky comes to life again and full size." In the preface to the book Mr. James writes: "My main ambition as I turn Smoky loose to make himself acquainted is that the folks who will get to know him will see that horse as I seen him." IN "Gay Neck," the 1927 prize book, Dhan Gopal Mukerji has given us a picture of the jungle, animal and bird life of India. The author, born in India, broke the tie of caste and country and came to America at the age of twenty years. His childhood home stood at the edge of the jungle and at night Dhan used to sit by the window and gaze out at the jungle. When he grew up the holy men took him' into this mysterious place at night telling In 1920 he was injured by RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE him: "The animals are our brothers. They want to talk tous. We must understand them." This first hand knowledge he later put into his stories for children. "Gay Neck" is the story of a pigeon, telling of his hairbreadth escapes from hawks, eagles, and airplanes. The style is beautiful, even poetical in places. Parts of the book may have too much philosophy and spiritual teaching for a child, but a very fine thing is done when Ghond, the hunter, and Gay Neck struggle to overcome fear. HE Trumpeter of Krakow" is a picture of life in Poland in the fifteenth century, written by Eric Philbrook Kelly, of Massachusetts. 'Mr. Kelly gained his information for this book while in Poland where he remained a number of years after the war. The story is woven around the custom in the city of Krakow, of blowing each hour from the four windows of a church, a trumpet song. The superstitions of the people, the experiments of hypnotizers, the royal court splendor all add romance to the story. Because of his scholarly knowledge of Polish history, the original trumpet on which the trumpet song was played for centuries, was loaned to the author to exhibit in America. HITTY," by Rachel Field, is the story of a doll, but Hitty seems much more like a real person. It tells of the varied and exciting events of her life from the time she is carved out of wood by a peddler to the time she is bought at an auction and placed in an antique shop in New York City. Rachel Field found this doll and in spite of its prohibitive price, never rested until she owned it. When she first owned the doll she found the name "Hitty" written in faded spencerian letters on a bit of paper sewed to her brown calico dress. This furnished the "inspiration" LITTLE PRETTY POCKET BOOK" for the first Newberry Medal Book won by a woman. The incidents of the book are both significant and charming. ELIZABETH COATSWORTH has been a traveler in England, France, Mexico, Spain, Italy, Greece, Egypt, Morocco, Japan, China, Yucatan, and the Philippines. Memories of her travels fill all her writings. She considers herself a writer of poetry and it is said that she has had more poetry printed in current magazines than any other young living poet. Her first story, "The Cat Who Went to Heaven," brought her the Newberry Medal. The appealing little cat instantly gains the reader's sympathy. 'So the old woman put down the basket and opened the lid. Nothing happened fora moment. Then a round, 'pretty white head came slowly above the bamboo and two big yellow eyes looked about the room, and a little white cat jumped out on the mat." A poor starving artist bought her with his last penny, and the very next day was commissioned by the priest to make a drawing of the last days of Buddha which was to be hung in the temple. So the artist named his cat "Good Fortune." In the drawing the artist placed around Buddha all the animals whom he had loved and blessed. And when he had painted them all, his love for Good Fortune gave him courage to draw a cat at the end of the procession even at the risk of the priest's displeasure. "Good Fortune" was so happy to be included among the followers of Buddha that she died of happiness. That night a miracle happened and the next morning the little cat was gone from the end of the line and was found in Buddha's arms. Miss Coatsworth's book is one of rare beauty and charm.
"WATERLESS MOUNTAIN," by Laura Adams Armer, takes its name from a mountain in the Navajo country. The story is based upon actual experiences among the Indians. It is claimed that in this story, the author comes as close to painting a true picture as anyone save a medicine man could do. Many incidents are told with unusual depth of feeling. The Indian legends, descriptions of ceremonies, and other pictures are delightfully told.
ELIZABETH FORMAN LEWIS, whose "Young Fu" won the 1933 medal, has had an unusual literary career. Although this is her first book, for years she has been writing children's stories which have appeared in St. Nicholas, Boy's Life, John Martin's Book, and Junior Red Cross. She was born in Baltimore and educated in that City and in New York. She says, "I have never taken a course in journalism or the art of writing in my life, and I believe that anything I have succeeded in doing I owe chiefly to a broad background of thirty years or more of incessant reading. As a child I knew good books, books far beyond my age for the most part, but well written. I am inclined to believe that in so far as any one author might do so, Joseph Conrad has influenced me most deeply." While living in China where she taught religious education, the idea for her Chinese story came to her. This teaching experience, undoubtedly, is responsible for the high moral tone throughout the book. It is the story of a young boy who not only conquers poverty, but in his struggle for success conquers himself. It is not lacking in adventures such as a fire, a flood and brutal acts of soldiers, but no incident is done with a more unerring hand than the picture of the boy when he discovers he has made a serious mistake by gambling away his mother's hard earned money, and his courageous effort to repay his mother for what he had lost. Every boy should own "Young Fu." In this group of Newbery Medal books, a wide variety of subjects have been used. From them, the taste of any type of child could be satisfied. There is a book of history, four vastly different animal stories, two books of legend and folklore, one American Indian story, one uses the unusual subject of a doll, and the latest book is written of life in a foreign country. It is extremely interesting to note the various professions from which the winners come, only three being writers. Van Loon and Kelly are newspaper men; Lofting, Mukerji and Chrisman were trained in technical subjects such as engineering and architecture. Finger is a musician; Will James a cowboy; Mrs. Armer is an artist; Hawes, a magazine editor; Miss Coatsworth, Miss Field, and Mrs. Lewis are writers. It is perhaps still more interesting to observe that the last four awards have been made to women, and that they are writers by profession. It must be remembered that the Newbery Medal is awarded to the best book of the year, and some are infinitely more profitable as food for children than others, but they serve as the best guide in the problem of what children should read. The Medal was established with the hope of interesting authors of creative ability in writing children's books, and we must agree that the aim is being accomplished, for more and more such writers are coming to feel, not only the importance of good reading for children, but that juvenile books can be real literature and are deserving of the best efforts of the most gifted writers.