Canapes for the Smart Dinners
NOTHING is gayer than a tray of colorful canapes served in the living room preceding the soup course or the main course of the dinner. These preliminaries are individual appetizers arranged on little beds of toast. They can be eaten gracefully with the fingers.
To prepare canapes.—Cut close-textured bread in ¼ inch slices. Remove the crusts and cut in desired shapes—squares, diamonds, crescents, oblongs, etc. Toast on one side and spread lightly with butter or mayonnaise dressing. Then arrange the various appetizers on the toast beds to make them look as decorative as possible. Serve within half an hour after they are put together. Well seasoned tomato juice or ginger ale are excellent accompaniments.
Olive Canapes Make round canapes, spread with creamed butter mixed with equal parts of peanut butter and seasoned with a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar. Make border of sliced stuffed olives and the center of finely chopped olives.
Tomato and Shrimp Canapes Make rounds of toast with a slice of tomato of the same size. Lay some tiny frills of lettuce on tomato. Top with a shrimp which has been dipped in mayonnaise dressing.
Sardine Canapes Spread oblong canapes with mayonnaise dressing. Place a sardine in the center and decorate with finely chopped olives.
Anchovy and Cucumber Canapes Prepare canapes and spread with anchovy paste. Chop hard-cooked eggs finely, yolks and whites separately. Cover canapes by quarters with egg, alternately yolks and whites. Top with thin slices of cucumber.
Crab Meat Canapes Spread rounds of toast with creamed butter mixed with an equal quantity of grated cheese and seasoned with salt and pepper. Cover with creamed crab meat, bake in hot oven until brown, and garnish with thin strips of red pepper.
Olives Wrapped With Bacon Choose large stuffed olives and wrap in very thin slices of bacon. Fasten with toothpicks. Place under broiler and broil under medium heat, turning frequently to cook bacon evenly. Serve hot with the toothpick left in as a handle.
Stuffed Celery Select small stalks from the hearts. Fill with a mixture of creamed cheese and Roquefort cheese, well blended. Season with salt and paprika.