Our Next Season's Lessons OUR season's work is reaching its close. We congratulate our officers and members, for we believe that. Better work has been done this season than ever before. More have studied and participated in the lessons and our membership has increased. Now, during the summer months how profitable and  pleasurable it would be to do some reading to prepare for next year's lessons! We publish, herewith, the headings for our Theology, Literary and Social Service Lessons; also a suggestive list of books for reading that will enrich the Literary Lessons for next year. May your summer be delightful and restful so that with renewed vigor you will resume your work next fall. THEOLOGY, 1934-1935 I. The Lord's Second Coming and the Millennial Reign. II. Allegiance to the Church. Ili. The Power of Prayer. IV. Visitations of the Savior. V. The Agency of Man. VI. Gems of Truth. VII. The Kirtland Temple. VIII. Zion's Camp. IX. The Law of Tithing. LIFE AND LITERATURE, 1934-35 I. The Novel— Lesson IJ—The Novel, a Human Document—"Silas Marner"—George Eliot. Lesson II—The Novel, a Universal Record—"The Scarlet Letter" —Nathaniel Hawthorne. Lesson III —The Novel, a Contemporary Record—Dorothy Canfield, Novelist; John Galsworthy, Novelist. II. Poetry— Lesson IV—Wordsworth. Lesson V —New Voices—a. Edwin Markham —b. John Mansfield. Essays— "As A Man Thinks'—Lesson VI. [V. Biography— Adventurers All—Lesson VII— Biography—a. Emily Dickinson V. Today's Drama— Lesson VIII—Stage and Troupers. VI. A Miscellany— Reading, a Glorious Adventure. SOCIAL SERVICE, 1934-35 The aim of the course is to become acquainted with some of the men and women who have been outstanding in their contributions to human welfare. Jesus Christ will be considered as the great teacher of the brotherhood of man, whose life and spirit inspired these men and women in their efforts to make the world a better: place in which to live. Short biographies of the following with the special work they did to improve conditions and to afford greater opportunity for a more abundant life, will be studied. Elizabeth Fry—Prison Reform. Robert Owen—Industrial Reform. Octavia Hill—Housing. Jane Addams—Social Settlements. Samuel G. Howe—Physically Handicapped Children. Louis Pasteur—Health. Florence Nightingale—Nursing. LIFE AND LITERATURE READING LISTS I. General Reading. "Silas Marner'—Eliot. "The Scarlet Letter'—Hawthorne. "The Flowering Wilderness'—Galsworthy. "The Deepening Stream"—Fisher. Poems—W ordsworth—Markham. "The Everlasting Mercy"—Masefield. Book of Ecclesiastes—Bible. Essays—Bacon, The Life of Emily Dickinson. II. Additional Reading. "Life and Letters of George Eliot"— Cross. Life of Hawthorne. "Anna Karenina"—Tolstoy. "The Modern Novel'—Follette. "Some Modern Poets'—Dawson. Wordsworth—Her ford. "Biography, the Literature of Personality'"—Johnson. "Biography and the Human Heart —Bradford. "The Story of the Theatre''—Hugheg. "Antigone'—Sophocles. "The Death of Eve"'—Moody.