Joseph Smith By James L. Barker
IN the issues of the Intermountain Catholic from July 21 to September 8, 1933, there appeared an article under the heading, "The Election and Grant of Authority to Bishops," by Monsignor D. G. Hunt. This article comments on an article, "Joseph Smith, Genius or Prophet," that appeared in the October and November issues of the Relief Society Magazine, 1930.*
Summary of the October and November Relief Society Magazine articles. The article in the October Relief Society Magazine maintains that Joseph Smith was a prophet, because he "organized a church"; "the strength is unprecedented and humanly inexplicable." In support of the fact that the organization is humanly inexplicable, the article explains the ideas of church government prevailing in the historic churches at the time of the institution of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—the idea of authority being dominant in the Catholic Church and the idea of individual liberty in the Lutheran Church. It likewise gives the theories of various churches relative to the highest officers in the Primitive Church, together with a brief sketch of the development and growth of authority in the Catholic Church; and points out that, in the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Catholic idea of authority and the Lutheran idea of individual liberty are reconciled and harmonized. It attempts also to show that the organization of the L. D. S. Church "is helpful in understanding the historical origin of the systems existing in 1830 when Joseph Smith began the work of organizing the Church" and that many statements insufficiently understood concerning officers of the Primitive Church are made clear by the latter-day organization. All this together with the "exact correspondence of the organization of the latter-day church and the organization of the Primitive Church can hardly be due to chance, and it would be due to chance if the organization were his (Joseph Smith's) invention." If the organization cannot be due to Joseph Smith's scholarship or to the scholarship of those about him, it must be due to the fact that it was given to him by revelation, as he claimed.
Monsignor Hunt has not yet commented on this article, but "because of greater interest" has commented on the November article first. In the November article of the Relief Society Magazine it is shown that, as a machine for the realization of the purposes of a church, the L. D. S. Church is superior to the historical churches in existence in 1830; that the necessary, but contradictory, principles of authority (in the Catholic Church) and of individual liberty (in the Lutheran Church) were "reconciled in the Primitive Church;" and that they are reconciled and harmonized in the actual government of the latter-day Church. Christ calls prophets and confers His priesthood, nevertheless, in recognition of the principle of free will, he leaves with the people the choice as to whether that priesthood (including the administrative authority of the priesthood) shall be exercised over them or not.
Monsignor Hunt comments: "Professor Barker gives his principal attention to church authority. He attempts to point out errors in the Catholic Church and Protestant Churches concerning both the grant of authority to officials, and the exercise of authority by officials." The article points out the historical development of the ideas of authority and individual liberty in church government and, if "errors in the Catholic Church and Protestant Churches" are pointed out, it is entirely incidental while showing that Joseph Smith restored the constitution of the Primitive Church.
Monsignor Hunt says: "Professor Barker's primary thesis seems to be this: Authority in church government rests with the people. He does not state this conclusion explicitly. Rather, he states it implicitly in his contention that no church official can exercise the authority of his office until his appointment, which is made by already existing officials, is ratified by the people. * * * A secondary thesis is this: Teaching authority in the Church rests finally with the people, who may check, correct, and change the doctrinal definitions of their officials." Neither of these propositions is defended in the Relief Society Magazine article. Monsignor Hunt states that the first proposition is not stated "explicitly" but "implicitly." Quite contrary to his summary, the article says "explicitly": "If no one had accepted him Jesus would have been the Son of God. Had he been rejected by all, Peter would have possessed the authority bestowed upon him by Jesus and would have been the chief of all the apostles and a prophet;" further: "Christ called the Apostles, the people did not call them, and the Apostles did not choose Him." If this were not so, there would have been no divine church. However, the article also states that "before a bishop could act, he had to be accepted by the church over which he was to preside." And it is in this and similar statements that Monsignor Hunt sees the "implication" of what he takes to be my thesis, namely, that "Authority in Church government rests with the people." The article does not maintain this. On the contrary, as stated in the article and quoted above, Church authority is of God. Nevertheless, since a primary condition of all ethical life is freedom of will or freedom of choice, the Primitive Church recognized the principle of common consent. If a bishop, in the Primitive organization, could have presided over a church against the will of the membership, there would have been no recognition of the principle of individual liberty. Though the grant of authority in the Primitive Church was of God, the Lord left, and now leaves, to the individual (and to the people) the decision as to whether this authority shall be exercised in his (or their) behalf or not.
Further Monsignor Hunt says that "As to whether the approval of the people is to be obtained before or after the appointment by officials, the argument of Professor Barker is not clear. It would seem to be implied, however, that the popular approval demanded by Professor Barker's theory may be registered either before or after appointment, that the time of the approval is not essential." The article seems sufficiently clear; it states: "If Joseph Smith is a prophet, it is because he was called of God, and the acceptance or rejection of his message in no way affects the authority of his priesthood (or that of his successors) and herein the principle of authority is operative. But Joseph Smith could not be president of the Church without the approval of the Church over which he presided." Naturally his calling as a prophet by God would precede his approval by the people as prophet and president of the Church. Before his divine calling there was nothing to approve.
In spite of the obvious meaning of the above quotations, Monsignor Hunt attributes to me the thesis "that Christ gives authority to Church officials only after they have been approved by the people." This is neither the belief nor the practice of the present-day Church: Christ calls prophets and confers his priesthood. Nevertheless, in recognition of the principle of free will, he leaves with the people the choice as to whether that priesthood (including the administrative authority of the priesthood) shall be exercised over them or not. The manner of choosing and ordaining the officers of the Primitive Church, being fundamental, was undoubtedly according to the will of the Savior, as revealed by the Holy Ghost.
Monsignor Hunt continues: "Professor Barker is content to offer evidence drawn from a date later than Christ. He offers certain facts drawn from the history of the early Church. His argument is that there was a practice among the Christians of the early Church by which popular approval for appointees to the priesthood and episcopacy was given, from which fact he concludes that the practice arose in the teachings of Christ. * * * "
"In a syllogistic form, Professor Barker's argument is as follows: Major premise: Any practice among the Christians of the early Church had its origin in the teachings of Christ. Minor premise: Among the Christians of the early Church was the practice of giving popular approval to candidates for the priesthood and the episcopacy. Conclusion: The practice of giving approval, therefore, had its origin in the intentions of Christ." And then Monsignor Hunt proceeds to state that the major premise is false. If so, it is not my fault; this major premise is not in the Relief Society Magazine article. I neither affirm nor contradict the thesis that "Any practice of the early Church had its origin in the teachings of Christ;" however, the organization of the Church and the manner of choosing and ordaining its officers, being fundamental, was undoubtedly, in the time of the Apostles, according to the will of the Savior as revealed by the Holy Ghost.
In the Primitive Church, bishops or presiding elders were nominated by superior authority but, according to the principle of free will, the wishes of the Church were ascertained concerning those who were to minister unto them. That the practice of submitting the officers chosen by superior authority for the approval of the people was general in the Primitive Church, seems to be the opinion of Catholic scholars:
"The head of the Church, elected to succeed Saint Alexander, was called Sixtus [116-125?]. * * * The people and the clergy of the city cooperated (concurrent) without doubt in his election. * * * It is established * * * by a mass of trustworthy documents (ensemble de documents certains) that in the third century, the election of the bishops of Rome, * * * was subject to the same regulations as the election of other bishops, and the canons of the councils of Arles, in 314, and of Antioch, in 341, give us to understand (font entendre) that they (the councils) are ratifying an ancient custom when they decree that the choice of the bishop is dependent 'on the assembly and the judgment of his colleagues.'" It is certain, moreover, that the priests (elders) and the people took part in the assembly of which mention is made here."*
As in the L. D. S. Church today, the will of the Church members was taken into account by the Apostles and the Apostles' disciples when they installed bishops. Catholic writers accept the fact of ascertaining the will of the people in the Primitive Church, and record the gradual abandonment of the practice.
"The first bishops were installed directly by the apostles and the apostles' disciples. Nevertheless these took into account the will of the church members, out of which there developed subsequently the right of approval on the part of the people, while the election itself was carried out by the clergy of the city. After a short time, the bishop elected, needed the confirmation of the metropolitan and of the provincial bishops. In certain countries the provincial bishops elected the bishops with the approval of the clergy and the people. There was, however, no real election on the part of the people anywhere, but only a collaboration on their part. Nevertheless, this participation on the part of the people was restricted more and more in the east. For instance, Justinian permitted only the prominent members to take part. The Council of Laodicea about 360 wanted to exclude the lay element entirely. And this collaboration of the people disappeared entirely from the ninth century on. In its place, however, the influence of the civil power made itself felt the more, especially in the west. In the Frankish kingdom, where bishops had been named not infrequently at an earlier date by the king, the election of the clergy was stipulated, it is true by the Council of Orleans (549), acknowledging, however, the right of confirmation on the part of the king. Among the West Goths, the election of bishops was entrusted to the king and the arch-bishop of Toledo by the Council of Toledo (681). In Germany, in France also, in place of the election, which as we have seen already at an earlier date had at times not been genuine, there appeared the unrestricted royal designation which, by the conferring of the ring and staff (italics mine), carried with it not only the bestowal of the princely, but also of the Church rights. * * * Although, by canonical election according to the old system (Rechte), the election by the clergy with the collaboration of the people is to be understood (italics mine), the influence of the people was crowded out at an early date and also the circle of the clergy entitled to take part in the election gradually narrowed down to the cathedral chapter, so that the election by the cathedral chapter came to be the commonly accepted method of filling bishops' chairs (Besetzung der Bischeflichen stuele). Later legislation defended this right of election emphatically against the attacks of the laity."†
Practice of "collaboration" on the part of the people restored in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. There is an exact correspondence in the method of procedure in the Primitive Church and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints there is today "no real election on the part of the people," "there is only a collaboration on their part;" "the choice of the bishop is (today as then) dependent on the assembly and the judgment of his colleagues;" today "It is likewise certain that the priests (elders) and the people (take) took part in the assembly;" and it is felt today, as by the councils then that: "they (the councils) were ratifying an ancient custom when they decree that the choice of the bishop is dependent 'on the assembly and the judgment of his colleagues'." This close correspondence between the practice in the Primitive Church and that which has been restored through Joseph Smith is the strongest kind of evidence of his divine calling. Such a restoration could not be due to chance, nor to his scholarship, nor to the scholarship of his associates: it could be due to revelation only.
Though "universality" cannot be proved, no contrary practice is known in the Primitive Church. It has been seen, too, that the withdrawal of the right of approval on the part of the members of the Church was the result of a long and gradual evolution. At no time did the people nominate or elect their bishops, but there seems no reason for believing that any practice prevailed in the Primitive Church other than that of submitting the newly chosen bishop to the people over whom he was to preside, for their approval.
Monsignor Hunt says that, though Athanasius states his election was approved by the people, he did not say that "popular approval was necessary for giving him authority." It was not necessary "for giving him authority," but the approval of the people, over whom he was to preside, was necessary for the exercise of that authority over them. And in the recognition and working harmony of these two facts lies the reconciliation of the apparently conflicting principles of authority and individual liberty in church government.
Monsignor Hunt observes that "An indication that would be deserving of attention would be universality." Where records are fragmentary at best, it would be difficult to prove universality but, on the other hand, is it possible to prove a single exception to such approval on the part of the people in the first century and a half or more of the Primitive Church?
Monsignor Hunt states that "St. Paul * * * personally appointed St. Titus; apparently without the approval or even the knowledge of the people." Probably so at the time of his appointment in Macedonia, but merely the fact that nothing more is said about it, does not prove that the Church of the Cretians over which he came to preside was not consulted as to its wishes in the matter. Today, elders are frequently ordained in Salt Lake City, and sent to distant branches of the Church but, having arrived there, they are submitted to the people for their approval.
Could the people remove their bishops? According to Monsignor Hunt, "Professor Barker cannot present one fact to indicate that Christ gave to the people the power to remove popes, bishops, and other clergy. Since Professor Barker made no attempt to prove his contention, I think it sufficient, in reply, to cite but one bit of evidence. In the letter which St. Clement wrote to the people of Corinth (about 95) he pointed out that they must respect and obey their clergy. He stated explicitly that the community could not overthrow their lawfully appointed leaders. In fact, this counsel was the main theme of the letter."
Let us note in passing that Monsignor Hunt does not quote the letter, but is content to give us his own summary of it. Before discussing this letter, may I first make clear that I did not state in the Relief Society Magazine article that "Christ gave to the people power to remove popes, bishops, and other clergy." And, of course, since I did not make this "contention," I did not attempt to prove it. I did state concerning Joseph Smith: "If Joseph Smith is a prophet, it is because he was called of God and the acceptance or rejection of his message in no way affects the authority of his priesthood (or that of his successors) and herein the principle of authority is operative. But Joseph Smith could not be the president of the Church without the approval of the Church over which he presided. Moreover, he provided for his possible recall twice a year, because the president must be sustained in conference assembled twice annually."
With the fact in mind that I did not attempt to prove that which I had not stated, let us examine the "one bit of evidence" deemed sufficient, but not quoted by Monsignor Hunt, namely, the letter which St. Clement wrote to the people of Corinth (about 95).
St. Clement's letter. In the early fourth century, Eusebius' comment on I Clement was as follows: "There is extant one letter of this Clement, which is accepted as genuine. It is of great length and remarkable character. He wrote it in the name of the Church of Rome to the Church of Corinth because of a disturbance that had arisen at Corinth. We know also that this letter has been read publicly in many churches in the past and in our own day."*
"The first indication we have that it was composed by Clement is found in a letter sent some eighty-five years later by Dionysius, bishop of Corinth, to the contemporary bishop of Rome."† The epistle "is clearly, from internal evidence, a letter sent by the church of Rome to the church of Corinth in consequence of trouble in the latter community which had led to the deposition of certain Presbyters. The church of Rome writes protesting against this deposition, and the partisanship which has caused it." (Italics mine.) "The actual name of the writer is not mentioned in the letter itself: it clearly claims to be not the letter of a single person but of a church. Tradition, however, has always ascribed it to Clement. * * * There is no reason for rejecting this tradition, for though it is not supported by any corroborative evidence in its favor there is nothing whatever against it."‡
Who was Clement? In what capacity and in what authority did he write? "The name of Clement does not appear in the letter; it presents itself, formally, as the writing of the Christian community at Rome."§ Did Clement write as bishop of Rome or, as pope? Of Clement, the Catholic Encyclopedia, vol. 3, p. 14, says: "Probably he was a freedman. * * Of the life and death of St. Clement nothing is known." And the same work says further, p. 16, that, in the letters to the Church at Corinth, "Presbyters are mentioned several times, but are not distinguished from bishops. There is absolutely no mention of a bishop at Corinth, and the ecclesiastical authorities there are always mentioned in the plural, R. Sohm thinks there was as yet no bishop at Corinth when Clement wrote (so Michiels and many other Catholic writers * * ), Harnack in 1927 (Chronol., 1) upheld the paradox that the Church of Rome was so conservative as to be governed by presbyters (elders) until Anicetus; and when the list of popes was composed, c. 170, there had been a bishop for less than twenty years; Clement and others in the list were only presbyters (elders) of special influence." Monsignor Duchesne represents all of the early churches* as being governed by their founders—the apostles or other traveling evangelists. However, these were later to abandon the churches to themselves (p. 90), at which time they were ruled by leaders of their own number. As to who these leaders were—after citing Paul's recommendation to the "elders" who had been constituted "bishops" by the Holy Spirit—he writes: "There appears here already the lack of distinction between the priests (elders) and the bishops and the government of the church by the college of elders, Like the church of the Philippians, the church at Ephesus is directed by a group of personages who are at the same time priests (elders) and bishops (italics mine)."†
"* * * in the Pastorales * * * they are designated sometimes as priests (elders) and sometimes as bishops."‡
"The church of the Philippians received, about 115, a letter from Polycarp, bishop of Smyrna; in it there is no other mention than that of priests (elders) and deacons. Hermas does not speak in any different terms of the Roman church of his time. One may say as much of Second Clement, a contemporary Roman or Corinthian writing of Hermas."§
"There has been much discussion concerning these texts and their apparent disagreement with the tradition which represents the single episcopacy as going back to the origin even of the church and as representing the succession of the apostles in the hierarchical order." * * *
"Whether they (the Christian communities) had a single bishop at their head, or whether they had several (elders-bishops), the episcopacy reaped the apostolic succession." * *
"Hermas seems to be acquainted with only an episcopal college, and yet he writes under a single bishop, who is his own brother."¶
In the light of the organization and government of the present-day Church, all this groping in obscurity is made perfectly clear. Established communities are presided over today by bishops; new branches are administered by the group of elders (traveling or local) working in the branch, of whom one is the presiding elder (presbyter-bishop).
"Moreover the episcopal college (college of elders) by which they surely began in more than one place, could not be considered as the final institution; it was to be transformed at an early date. One governs with a committee only when it is presided over by a head who holds it in hand, who inspires it, directs it, and acts for it."** In the present-day Church, the government by a group of elders can "not be considered as the final institution;" but lasts only until the community has attained sufficient importance to be presided over by a bishop. This seems to have been the case in the early Church.
In any event, it is apparent from these quotations that communities of the early Church were sometimes directed by a bishop, and sometimes by a group of elders with a presiding elder at their head. In such cases, elder and bishop had the same authority, and for the historians are not clearly distinguishable. It also seems plausible that the first "elders-bishops" at Rome—now called popes—were elders presiding over a group of elders, which in turn presided over the branch of the Church at Rome.
According to Monsignor Duchesne, "the usage of including presidents and counselors in a common denomination is explained thus: "The Church of God which resides at Rome' could have inherited the superior authority of its apostolic founders, as a college; this authority was concentrated in the body of its priests-bishops. Between this president and the single bishop of the following centuries there was no specific difference."†† If Clement was an elder presiding over the Church at Rome, it would not be out of harmony with the present order of the Church. Today a branch of the Church in the missionary field, or any small branch of the Church, is presided over by an elder, who may or may not be assisted by other elders.
According to Ireneus,‡‡ Clement was the third successor of St. Peter, according to Tertullian,§§ the immediate successor of Saint Peter, and according to St. Augustine, the second successor of St. Peter. And "Lightfoot and Harnack are fond of pointing out that we hear earlier of the importance of the Roman Church than of the authority of the Roman bishop. If Clement had spoken in his own name [in the letter to the Church at Corinth], they would surely have noted expressly that he wrote not as Bishop of Rome, but as an aged presbyter who had known the Apostles. St. John indeed was still alive, and Corinth was rather nearer to Ephesus than to Rome."¶¶
There is nothing impossible in the assumption that Clement was only an elder. In the Relief Society Magazine article, we saw that Mourret does not translate "episcopoi-presbuteroi [bishops-elders] because episcopus [overseer] is not necessarily the person we call a bishop and the presbuteros [elder] can be a bishop [overseer]. We had seen above that all the presbuteroi [elders] took part in the Council of Jerusalem, and the Acts of the Apostles, in relating the farewell of St. Paul to the pastors of the Church at Ephesus, calls them now presbuteroi [elders] and again episcopoi [bishops], Acts 17:28."*** Clement may or may not have been bishop of Rome, but, be that as it may, he did not write as head of the Church. The letter to the Church at Corinth "Does not bear the name of the author but, according to the custom of that period, is written in the name of the whole Church at Rome, clergy as well as simple faithful, to the faithful at Corinth, taken likewise collectively."††† If Clement is the author of the letter, he writes neither as presiding-elder nor as bishop of Rome, but in the name of "the Church of God which sojourns in Rome to the Church of God which sojourns in Corinth."‡‡‡ We have seen already that this was the custom of the time.
Saint Clement's Epistle. Bishops and deacons, "when they had been tested by the Spirit" were appointed "with the consent of the whole church."
"42. The Apostles received the Gospel for us from the Lord Jesus Christ, Jesus the Christ was sent from God. The Christ therefore is from God and the Apostles from the Christ. In both ways then, they were in accordance with the appointed order of God's will. Having therefore received their commands, and being fully assured by the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, and with faith confirmed by the word of God, they went forth in the assurance of the Holy Spirit preaching the good news that the Kingdom of God is coming. They preached from district to district, and from city to city, and they appointed their first converts, testing them by the Spirit, to be bishops and deacons of the future believers.";
44. "Our Apostles also knew through our Lord Jesus Christ that there would be strife for the title of bishop. For this cause, therefore, since they had received perfect foreknowledge, they appointed those who have been already mentioned, and afterwards added the codicil that if they should fall asleep, other approved men should succeed to their ministry. We consider, therefore, that it is not just to remove from their ministry those who were appointed by them, or later on by other eminent men, with the consent of the whole Church, and have ministered to the flock of Christ without blame, humbly, peaceably, and disinterestedly, and for many years have received a universally favourable testimony. For our sin is not small, if we eject from the episcopate those who have blamelessly and holily offered its sacrifices."
As in the present-day Church, the deposed officials had been appointed to the ministry and "ordained" by superior authority; likewise they had been "appointed" "with the consent of the whole church." This appointment of officials, "testing them by the Spirit" "with the consent of the whole Church" was the custom of the Primitive Church. Both "the testing by the Spirit" and the "consent of the whole Church" are emphasized in the letter of the Church at Rome to the Church at Corinth (St. Clement's letter), and the officials thus appointed were, as Monsignor Hunt says, "lawfully appointed." Moreover, there is no evidence that officials appointed in any other manner have ever been "lawfully appointed."
No reason to believe the Letter would have blamed the Corinthians had they removed "rulers" who were not "blameless." They are blamed for jealousy, partisianship, and dissension. As we have already seen, Clement, if he is the author of the letter, does not write as Bishop of Rome, much less as "pope." Moreover the Church at Corinth ("out of jealousy") had removed some of their "rulers." They are reproved for removing "rulers" of "blameless conduct," who had been ordained "with the consent of the whole Church," and "our sin is not small, if we eject from the episcopate those who have blamelessly and holily offered its sacrifices." There is no reason for believing that the letter would have blamed them had they removed "rulers" who were not blameless," and nothing seems to justify Monsignor Hunt's summary: "He (Clement) stated explicitly that the community could not overthrow their lawfully appointed leaders." In fact this letter of Clement supports the statements of the Relief Society Magazine article. If the officials mentioned in Clement's letter had been "lawfully appointed," then the fact that the appointment of officials by the spirit of revelation "with the consent of the whole church" has been restored to the latter-day church, is strong evidence of the divine calling of Joseph Smith.
Clement did not speak as bishop of Rome, nor as "pope." The "Church that sojourns at Rome" did not command the "Church that sojourns at Corinth;" but entreated it to restore "peace and concord" "obedient to the things which we have written through the Holy Spirit." However in this letter of the Church at Rome to the Church at Corinth an appeal is made for unity. How was this unity which had been disturbed by "jealousy," to be restored to the Church? Was it to be imposed authoritatively by the "church that sojourns at Rome (not by the bishop of the Church of Rome) on the "Church that sojourns at Corinth," without consulting their wishes? We have already seen that the letter makes no such claim to authority. On the contrary, it says: "you will give us joy and gladness if you are obedient to the things which we have written through the Holy Spirit and root out the wicked passions of your jealousy according to the entreaty for peace and concord which we have made in this letter," Consider this in connection with the statements of Harnack: "The old notion which regarded the churches as possessing the heritage of the Apostles in so far as they possess the Holy Spirit (italics mine) continued to exercise a powerful influence on these writers (Tertullian and Ireneus). And, again, concerning "the essential character of Christendom in its first period," he says: "The Church or, in other words, the community of believers, attains her unity through the Holy Spirit."
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints attains her

*The Relief Society Magazine article was shown to a friend who, after having it for some time, expressed a desire to secure Monsignor Hunt's opinion about it, and asked permission to hand it to him. I replied that I should be likewise interested in knowing the opinion of so brilliant a defender of the Catholic faith. Monsignor Hunt has now published his comments, which he was kind enough to send me first in manuscript form. I am taking this occasion to comment on his article.
*Mourret, Les Origines Chretiennes pp. 195-6, Librairie Bloud et Gay, Paris, 1924. "que le choix de l'eveque releve de l'assemblee et du jugement de ses collegues."
†Heiners Katholisches Kirchenrecht, vol. 2, pp. 190-1, Ferdinand Schoningh, Paderborn, 1913. See also Funk, Kirchengeschichte, p. 155.
*Historia Ecclesiastica, III, 16, quoted by Shotwell and Loomis in The See of Peter, p. 66.
†Shotwell and Loomis, The See of Peter, p. 66.
‡The Apostolic Fathers, with an English translation by Kirsopp Lake, vol. 1, Introduction, p. 3.
§Patrology, Bardenhewer, Freiburg im Breisgau and St. Louis, Mo., B. Herder, Publisher to the Holy Apostolic See, 1908, p. 27.
*Speaking in a foot-note of the See of Peter, p. 238, of the use of the word 'presbyters' in St. Clement's letter, Shotwell and Loomis say: "The word 'presbyters' or 'elders' seems to be used in its first sense, as a general title for the leaders and officers of the Church, the 'seniores' (elders), bishops and deacons. Not until the second century does it appear to denote a special group of ministers, the priests, and even then it may still keep its inclusive meaning."
*Histoire Ancienne de l'Eglise, Fontemoing et Cie, Paris, 1911, tome 1, p. 89.
†Histoire Ancienne de l'Eglise, pp. 94-5.
‡Duchesne, Histoire Ancienne de l'Eglise, p. 93.
§Duchesne, Histoire Ancienne de l'Eglise, p. 95
¶Histoire Ancienne de l'Eglise, pp. 94-5.
**Duchesne, Histoire Ancienne de l'Eglise, p. 95
††"That which is certain is that he was bishop of Rome, and according to St. Ireneus (Adv. Haeres., III, 3. N. 3. P. G. T. VII, col. 849), the third successor of Saint Peter on the episcopal chair of Rome. Others, like Tertullian (De Praescript., 32, P. L. T. II, col. 45) and a good part of the Latins, place Saint Clement immediately after Saint Peter, while others, on the contrary, like Saint Augustine (Epist. LIII, ad. Gen. N. 2, P, L. T. XXXIII, col. 196), Optatus Milevitanus (De schism, donat. II, 3, P. L. T. XI, col. 248) and the Constitutiones Apostolorum (VII, 46, P. G. T. I, col. 1053), assign the third place to Clement; so that the series would be: St. Peter, Linus, Clement, Anacletus. From as early as the fourth century on, attempts have been made, with little success, to reconcile the three opinions, of which the most probable and the one admitted is: Saint Peter, Linus, Cletus, or Anacletus, Clement...." Enciclopedia Universal Ilustrada, vol. 13, p. 787, article Clement I, Hijos de J. Espasa, Madrid, 1924.
‡‡"According to Tertullian, writing c. 199, the Roman Church claimed that Clement was ordained by St. Peter (De Praescript., 32), and St. Jerome tells us that in his time 'most of the Latins' held that Clement was the immediate successor of the Apostle (De viris illustr., XV). St. Jerome himself in several places follows this opinion, but here he correctly states that Clement was the fourth pope. The early evidence shows great variety." The Catholic Encyclopedia, vol. 4, p. 13, article Clement I. "Origen identifies Pope Clement with St. Paul's fellow-laborer, Phil. iv., 3, and so do Eusebius, Epiphanius, and Jerome; but this Clement was probably a Philippian." The Catholic Encyclopedia, vol. 4, p. 13, article Clement I.
§§The Catholic Encyclopedia, vol. 4, p. 17, article Clement, I.
¶¶Mourret, Les Origines Chretiennes, p. 90.
***Enciclopedia Universal Ilustrada, vol. 13, p. 788. "The articles (in the Enciclopedia Universal Ilustrada) are written by competent scholars from a Catholic viewpoint and embody the latest results of scientific researches.... In fact, this Spanish encyclopedia is an extensive Catholic encyclopedia and the largest and most up-to-date work of this kind published in any language." The Catholic Historical Review, October, 1933, p. 340.
†††"The Church of God which sojourns in Rome to the Church of God which sojourns in Corinth, to those who are called and sanctified by the will of God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Grace and peace from God Almighty be multiplied to you from Jesus Christ." Salutation of the First Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians, The Apostolic Fathers, with an English translation by Kirsopp Lake, p. 9.
‡‡‡Saint Clement's Letter to the Corinthians, Apostolic Fathers, ed. By K. Lake (The Loeb Classical Library), vol. I, pp. 79, 81, 83, 85.
§§§"XIV. Therefore it is right and holy, my brethren, for us to obey God rather than to follow those who in pride and unruliness are the instigators of an abominable jealousy. "XVI. For Christ is of those who are humble-minded, not of those who exalt themselves over His flock. The sceptre of the greatness of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, came not with the pomp of pride or of arrogance, for all his power, but was humble-minded. As the Holy Spirit spoke concerning him. "XXI. Let us offend foolish and thoughtless men, who are exalted and boast in the pride of their words, rather than God. "XLV. You have studied the Holy Scriptures, which are true, and given by the Holy Spirit. You know that nothing unjust or counterfeit is written in them. You will not find that the righteous have been cast out by holy men. The righteous were persecuted; but it was by the wicked. They were put in prison; but it was by the unholy.... "XLVI. Why are there strife and passion and divisions and schisms among you? Or have we not one God. And one Christ, and one Spirit of grace poured out upon us? And is there not one calling in Christ? Why do we tear and rend asunder the members of Christ, and raise up strife against our own body, and reach such a pitch of madness as to forget that we are members one of another. "XLVII. Take up the epistle of the blessed Paul the Apostle. What did he first write to you at the beginning of his preaching? With true inspiration he charged you concerning himself and Cephas and Apollos, because even then you had made yourselves partisans. But that partisanship entailed less guilt on you; for you were partisans of Apostles of high reputation, and of a man approved by them. But now consider who they are who have perverted you, and have lessened the respect due to your famous love for the brethren. It is a shameful report, beloved, extremely shameful, and unworthy of your training in Christ, that on account of one or two persons the steadfast and ancient church of the Corinthians is being disloyal to the presbyters (elders). And this report has not only reached us, but also those who dissent from us, so that you bring blasphemy on the name of the Lord through your folly, and are moreover creating danger for yourselves (italics mine). "XLVIII. Let us then quickly put an end to this, and let us fall down before the Master, and beseech him with tears that he may have mercy on us, and restore us to our holy and seemly practice of love for the brethren. "LIV. Who then among you is noble, who is compassionate, who is filled with love? Let him cry: 'If sedition and strife and divisions have arisen on my account, I will depart, I will go away whithersoever you will, and I will obey the commands of the people; only let the flock of Christ have peace with the presbyters over it." He who does this will win for himself great glory in Christ, and every place will receive him, for 'the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness of it. The First Epistle of Clement to the Corinthians, The Apostolic Fathers, with an English translation by Kirsopp Lake, pp. 31, 35, 87, 89, 91, 101." Apostolic Fathers, Epistle of St. Clement, LXIII, p. 119. 346 Apostles in so far as they possess the Holy Spirit (italics mine) continued to exercise a powerful influence on these writers (Tertullian and Ireneus). And, again, concerning "the essential character of Christendom in its first period," he says: "The Church or, in other words, the community of believers, attains her unity through the Holy Spirit."" The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints attains her unity through the Holy Spirit. Force— the means employed in preceding centuries to secure unity. The fact that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints "attains her unity through the Holy Spirit' today is further evidence and (to the obedient who receive the Holy Ghost) certain proof of the divine calling of Joseph Smith. There is another means—still maintained in principle—that of torture, imprisonment and death: it is the means employed in preceding centuries by the 'Catholic and other churches; and it is the only means possible of securing unity if, as Monsignor Hunt asserts, "the Holy Ghost was hot promised to the people." Ireneus and Tertullian "firmly assert the priesthood of the whole congregation." Moreover, the assumption of Harnack and others that Clement was only an elder in the growing Church of Rome, is the more probable if we remember that Ireneus and Tertullian "firmly assert the priesthood of the whole congregation," and that the college of elders frequently "ruled" the Church. The Church order as restored by Harnack, History of Dogma, vol. I, II, p. 70. Little, Brown and Co., Boston, 1905. Liad History of Dogma, vol. 1, p. 73. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Joseph Smith in the latter-day Church coincides in every detail with these and other known facts of the Primitive Church. Is it the re-. Sult of chance, scholarship, genius or revelation? So much for the "one bit of evidence" offered by Monsignor Hunt. Bishops could be judged by the councils and deposed by them. Were bishops ever disapproved in theory or practice by the council (assembly )? I quote from Mourret:"The rights of the metropolitan include, first the right to call and preside over the annual provincial council. 7. These councils become regular in the third century and are presided over by the bishops of the principal city. The bishops are 'justiciables' (may be judged) by these councils and may be deposed by them, as we have already seen done in the case of Privat de Lambese." In the second century, the existence of particular councils, and in the third century their right to judge their bishops, not as an exceptional, but as a regular thing, is recognized by Mourret. Monsignor Hunt says too that "No doubt, one method of selection is superior to another method; but regardless of method, the grant of power takes place just the same." One would assume that Jesus instituted the one best method and that *Les droits du metropolitain comprennent; 1. La convocation et la presidence du concile provincial annuel;" "Ces conciles deviennent reguliers au I[Ime siecle et sont preside par l'eveque de la ville principale. Les eveques sont justiciables de ces conciles et peuvent etre deposes par eux, ainsi que nous l'avons vu pour Privat de Lambese." Mourret, Histoire Generale de 1'Eglise, vol. 1, p. 383. Tn Africa the councils are semi-annual. They were held in the spring and in the aytumn, JOSEPH SMITH the Church should have adhered to it. And, since a method of nomination by superior authority, according to the inspiration of the Holy Spirit followed by the approval of the people as inspired by the same Spirit, was in use in the early Church; we may assume that Christ did institute it. It was not adhered to in the course of time. The fact that Joseph Smith restored it in the latter-day Church is evidence of his divine calling. Church officials called and directed in their ministry by the Holy Ghost. According to Monsignor Hunt: "It is to be kept in mind that we treat here of two distinct functions, first, that of electing Church officials, and second, that of giving them authority. As already stated, Christ left specific directions for the latter but not for the former. He provided that the Apostles and their successors only could give power to succeeding bishops, and that they should do so through a Sacrament. This method of. Granting power, being prescribed by Christ, is not subject to change." In support of the statement that the Savior did not leave specific directions for the manner of choosing bishops, etc., Monsignor Hunt cites, "The selection of St. Matthias which was determined by lots" and asks if Christ "did not prescribe the method of drawing lots, why did St. Peter and his colleagues resort to it?" Does Monsignor Hunt believe that the choice of St. Matthias was simply a matter of chance or does he believe that in his choice the prayer of the apostles was answered? "And they prayed, and said, Thou, Lord which knowest the hearts of all men, show whether of these two Thou hast chosen, That he may take part in the ministry and apostleship, from 347 which Judas by transgression fell, that he might go to his own place. And they gave forth their lots and the lot fell upon Matthias; and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.'"" If the apostles' prayer was answered, then God chose Matthias just as certainly as he chose others after the gift of the Holy Ghost had been poured out on the apostles on the day of Pentecost. In Acts 13:2-4 it is recorded that: “'As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto J have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. So they, being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed into Seleucia...." And in Hebrews 5:4, referring to High Priests it states: "And no man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron (Exodus 4:16), so also Christ glorified not himself to be made a High Priest, but he that said unto him, Thou art my son, today have I begotten thee." The Savior was no exception to the general order of the Church: he did not choose himself, much less was he chosen by the civil power. Jesus emphasized the fact that his disciples had not called him, but that he had called them, and, if we are to accept the words recorded in St. John, their calling was likewise authorized by the Father. Speaking of the Apostles," the Savior prays: "I have manifested Thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world. Thine they were, and Thou gavest. Them me and they have kept Thy word... Those that thou gavest me I have kept and none of them is lost, but the son of perdition; Acts 1:24-26. John 17:6, 12. 348 that the scriptures might be fulfilled." In contrast to the usage of the true Church, Monsignor Hunt records the fact that in the Catholic Church, "in some countries, civil rulers obtained the privilege of ratifying appointments and, later, that of making appointments. At no time was the Church happy with such interference but... Even though civil rulers forced candidates upon the Church, the Church could not question their power as bishops once they had been consecrated at the hands of other bishops."... "The point of importance is that the method of selecting bishops does not affect the validity of the sacrament of Holy Orders." Does Monsignor Hunt contend that if, instead of the apostles being chosen according to the will of God, Pilate had chosen others in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE their places in the New Testament times, all would have been well? Does it make no vital difference who chooses the Lord's servants? Does it matter not how unworthy a man selected by the civil power and forced upon the Church may be? It would perhaps be embarrasing to the Church, as Monsignor Hunt asserts, to "question the power (of men) as bishops once they had been consecrated (though under compulsion and though unworthy) at the hands of other bishops," but would it be embarrassing to the Lord, and would he suffer unholy compulsion? Does the Lord no longer choose his own servants? Joseph Smith asserts that their choice through revelation has been restored to the latter-day Church. It is the manner in which the Father has always called his servants.