Seek and Disseminate Knowledge By Thomas L. Martin
NO matter what your talent may be people will not acknowledge it unless you share it with them. Therein lies your development, as also the value of your talent, for your talent is of no value unless the earth and its inhabitants are better because of it. Expression without impression is impossible, impression without expression is folly.
There has been a great tendency in the past for men jealously to guard their intellectual possessions. As a result of this, much knowledge has been withheld from the people. Ignorance, superstition, suspicion, and unnecessary misery have been the lot of a majority of people. However, the times are changing, and one sees on every hand evidences wherein knowledge is becoming more democratic. Books, magazines, articles, and lectures are taking up this burden of the diffusion of knowledge, the popularizing or humanizing of science. A book by Messrs. F. S. Harris and N. I. Butt of Brigham Young University entitled, "Scientific Research and Human Welfare," is a splendid contribution in this regard. The effort of the writers is to acquaint the people with what science has done during the last two hundred years in the control of disease, transportation, illumination, plant diseases, and other topics associated with the control of the earth and the efforts of man to make the earth a more fit dwelling place. No one can read the book without being intellectually better and feeling a debt of gratitude to the producers. While perusing the pages of the book, one finds himself querying: "What can I do to make the world better?" The authors have information combined with talent. They have shared it with their fellowmen in the writing of their book. They have made their contribution, thus compelling the banishment of ignorance, and superstition.
ALL men have talent of some description. Some men are very successful farmers. That which has made them efficient in their line of endeavor should be spread broadcast in the communities in which they live. The physicians have material of interest, and it should be given freely. Teachers, in our various schools, are specialists in certain lines, their specialty should be popularized and made familiar to the people. Many housewives have certain bits of information on home decoration, arrangement of furniture, desirable recipes, methods of budgeting the family income, that would be of enormous value to the rest of womankind. The business man has knowledge of material that should be shared by the members of the community; so have the postmaster and the industrialist. Each community should call upon the extension specialist from the various universities to aid in this matter of the dissemination of useful knowledge. Lyceum courses should be well supported, for from such sources a mass of information is accumulated which leaves its impress for good upon the community for years to come. Study and teach each one of you for the informations' sake and for the intellectual development and practical value that may be obtained therefrom.
IN farming communities meetings should be held at which the farmers could discuss in the form of a round table, many of the problems confronting them. Occasionally call in some specialist and continue the discussion. Furthermore, aim to go beyond the immediate practical. For example it is well known that fall plowing is good, particularly for heavy soils. Should we stop with that information? By no means. Why is it good, what is its effect on the soil water, the soil air and the soil bacteria? Delve into nature, and drag from her some of the intellectual gems that make life worth while. This theoretical or scientific information must be given, along with the practical discussion in order to gain the intellectual mastery of the thing at hand, in other words, to actually subdue the earth. Farmers and farmers' wives, work to this end, and you will do wonders in speeding the new movement in this world today—the popularization of information so that man may get the joy out of it that he is entitled to in this life. Share your information, share your talent, draw people into your midst who have talent and have them share it with you. Preach, teach, and write constantly about the things you know most about, and we shall have an intellectual, progressive, religious atmosphere, such as we have never before known.