=== FRONT MATTER (Cover, Ads, Contents, Advertisers Directory) ===
VOL. XII JUNE, 1925 NO. 6 
CONTENTS

Page

At the Dawning Grace Ingles Frost 279
Portrait of President Charles W. Penrose 280
Our Beloved Leader 281
The Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City 282
Relief Society Conference Minutes 283
Greetings and Report Clarissa Smith Williams 283
Preparation for Group Conventions Amy W. Evans 288
Efficient Stake Supervision Lotta Paul Baxter 289
Reports of Stakes on Maternity and Health Work 291
Disaster Relief Annie D. Palmer 296
Supervision in Employment Lydia Alder 301
The Transportation Problem Cora Kassius 303
Family Ties Amy Brown Lyman 306
Teachers' Topic for August 325
Editorial—A Fitting Tribute 326
The Contribution of the Emigrant 326
Resting Time for Mother Mary H. Woolsey 328

PUBLICATION INFORMATION

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—25c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENTS

For our success we are indebted to our friends

Bennett Glass & Paint Co.
65 West First South

KEELEY'S
ICE CREAM
CANDY
CAKE
PUNCHES
deliciously different
Delivered

PHONE WAS. 3223

CALLAWAYS—"THE GIFT STORE OF THE WEST"

The only line of Imported China and Glass Novelties in the city. Gifts for every occasion. Prices to suit the purse. Wonderful showing of colorful and artistic Glass and China for Weddings and Anniversaries.

Special Attention to Mail Orders

66 MAIN ST.
SALT LAKE CITY

Make Sturdy Boys and Girls

Our fine quality bottled milk gives health, strength, energy, ambition and success to boys and girls too. It is the best food in the world for growing children.

"Daily Deliveries Before Breakfast"

CLOVER LEAF DAIRY

Temple and Burial Clothes

Complete Suits for Men and Women
Variety of Grades and Prices
Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a.m.—5 p. m.

General Board Relief Society
Phone Wasatch 3286
23 Bishop's Building
Salt Lake City, Utah

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

KEELEY'S
Silverware
Dinnerware

159 WEST 1st SO.
WASATCH 2177 

At the Dawning By Grace Ingles Frost In the gray shrouding mist of the morning, When roses hang heavy with dew, When quietly throbs heart of nature, My soul reaches out unto you. And in the deep silence unbroken, Save sounds there some bird's native song, I enter the Holy of Holies, Where hallowed memories throng. Within the vast walls of that temple, Unveiled for the moment I stand Face to face with You, God of my seeking, And know the firm clasp of your hand. And when dawn flashes over the hill's acres, Her quivering arrows of gold, I greet her, grown strong for the conflict, Of all that the day may yet hold. PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE Born February 4, 1832; died May 16, 1925 Our Beloved Leader Charles W. Penrose is dead! His like never has appeared among us before, and never will again, for the conditions out of which his life arose and in which it developed will not probably be repeated. He was the exceptional man. He was one of "the poor rich men," of whom we cannot hear too much in these days of materialism— poor in the things of temporary value, rich in the things of permanent worth. For he sought to apply God's measuring-rod to whatever he wished to evaluate. Although he served his Church and community in various ways his outstanding achievement lay in his work as writer and preacher. He was not an editor, but a Man in the editorial chair; not a public speaker,. But a Man in the pulpit. Ready of pen, he could dash off an article while others were thinking about it. Quick of wit, he was also penetrating of thought—a rare combination indeed. And his expression was clarity itself. Whether as writer or preacher, as politician or churchman, as citizen or official, he was always the Lover of Truth as he came to know it. This was his passion. He loved God with all his heart, and served Him day and night without stint. His out-pushing intellect delighted to play about the outposts of thought. But always, too, he was the Knight in Armor. The battle-field was his native ground—as many an antagonist has seen to his hurt. For his pen and tongue were not only trenchant, but caustic as well. His very name is synonymous with "Defender of the Faith," and ever will be. He has gone to join that noble company of other Defenders—Joseph Smith, the Pratt Brothers, Joseph F. Smith, and others whose thoughts and feelings he shared in life and will share in death. May he rest in peace! The Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City, Where the General Meetings of the Relief Socie ty Conference were Held

=== BACK MATTER (Ads, Trailing Content) ===
In great agitation, Rilla hurried to the telephone and summoned her sister and brothers for a discussion of this new turn in Mother's affairs. "The council meeting" was brief, and not at all stormy. "There is simply nothing to be done, as I see it," said James decidedly. "Her life is hers, to do with as she pleases; unless we considered her incapable, which we certainly don't." Rilla was almost tearful. "Why, we were trying so hard te make things pleasant for her. And she let me think she was growing to like it so well here!" "Cheer up, sis,' murmured Pauline. "She didn't leave because things weren't pleasant. I've an idea maybe they were too pleasant." "That's it, too pleasant," grinned Alvin. "No kick left in living; all obstacles removed, like a race-track: mighty smooth going, but lacking in scenery of interest. Take it from me, Mother's all right. You can give me the post-scrip, if none of the rest of you want it." "Think it's a ticket of admittance, do you?" bantered Pauline. "Well, at least it isn't marked, 'Admit One!'?When do we go?" Rilla alone refused to be drawn into a lighter mood. "Let's go as soon as ever we can. I can't help worrying about poor Mother, working her knuckles off over a pair of ungrateful little hoodlums who'll soon grow up and leave her and forget all she's done for them." "Oh, cut it out, Rilla!"' drawled Pauline. "Al, for pity's sake, get me away from here, before I start wearing out my tear-glands! Take me to a movie?a hokum, slap-stick comedy?quick!"  They did not announce their arrival by any blare of trumpets ?-or, to be more exact, honking of horn?when they drove up to the Knox gate one morning in September. Perhaps they felt a little ashamed, or maybe just uncertain of the attitdue she should assume. At any rate, it had been a quiet ride for the three of them 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ?James, at the last moment, had been unable to make the trip? and quietly now they went up the walk to the front porch. There seemed an air of real contentedness about the place. A hammock was swung across the end of the porch; in it and about it were tumbled bright-colored cushions; one knew at once that it had very recently boasted a lively occupant, though now it supported only two flaxen-haired dolls and a big lazy tomcat who raised his head as the visitors approached, lazily opened one eye, yawned, and resumed his nap. Several story-books lay on a stand; and old but still servicable bicycle leaned against a porch pillar? Alvin grinned delightedly as he recognized in it his own most precious possession of a few years before. Significant glances passed among them as they opened the screen door and walked into the hall. Then sniff, sniff?a most delightful odor hinted of "sugar and spice and everything nice," led them straight to the kitchen. And there, enveloped in a gorgeous pink apron, stood Mother at her white-topped work table, deftly cutting rounds of yellow cooky-dough. Her eyes were like stars, her cheeks like June roses, her lips curled merrily as she sang the old rhyme about the inert of Hearts and the tarts he stole away. Opposite her, on high stools, elbows on table, supported two faces shining with utter ecstasy were? why, to be sure, Mother's new family. One would hardly recognize, in those two faces, the Billy and Margery of a few wecks ago; already country air, proper food, and cleanliness, and affection, had worked wonders. But certainly they were no other than Billy and Margery, for those luminous brown eyes, those wonderingly joyous expressions, could belong to no one else! "Hello, aunts and uncle!" Mother threw a kiss, from floury finger-tips, to the trio who stood in the doorway. "Come and meet your new niece and nephew; Billy, Margery, here's Aunt Rilla, Aunt Pauline, and Uncle Alvin come to see you. I just knew I was making these cookies for a get-acquainted party." Everybody began to talk at once, and consequently no one could understand anyone else. But gradually the confusion subsided and dissolved itself into intelligible words and phrases: Rilla: "Mother, are you quite sure you're not going to regret this, this?hasty procedure?" Mother: "Quite sure. 'Tisn't so hasty, you see; I didn't do it ira minute, nor ina day. I had plenty of time to think it over.' Pauline: ?We're sorry, Mother, that we tried to fit you, square peg that you are, into a round hole we'd selected for you. We were really trying to be good to you, an didn't know how." Mother: "I know that, dear. You didn't quite understand me; that's all." Alvin: "Well, we're back of you now, Mummy you can bank on that." RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER Over a batch of golden-brown cookies fresh from the oven, Mother smiled at him fondly. "Can you?meet all the expense, Mother?" questioned Rilla. "I've the same income I've always had," returned Mother with spirit. "With that and a garden, and a cow, and pigs and chickens, and our little field of hay and grain, and our new meadow?we'll get along splendidly, won't we, Billy-boy?" "You bet! You bet we will!" warmly. "But, Mother?the work! You, wearing your life away, slaving for someone who will only forget you after awhile? Billy was on his feet, on top of the stool, an indignant little figure; brown eyes flashing, face white, hands clenched. They watched him, fascinated. "If you mean me, ma'am?I mean, Aunt Rilla?Why, you just forget all that. 'Cause I can work and I'm going to help Grandma all I can?" he turned to her a look of vee adoration ? "every bit I can! Tend chickens 'n' pigs, 'n' milk a cow, I can, an' hoe garden 'n' help wash clothes and wo *n' dust, too. Think I'll forget her, when she's brought us to this nice home, and making Margery get all well and strong?and she lets us call her Grandma, 'n'?'n' everything. Betcha I won't forget her? ever!" There was a moment of amazed silence. Then, "You see!" beamed Mother. But Rilla was not yet done. "T can't feel just right about it, Mother. You've always worked so hard; I felt that we owed you our care and protection?" "Oh, get out, Buttinski!" exclaimed Alvin, losing patience. "What we owe Mother is the inalienable right to do as she pleases! And if she wants to turn the farm into an orphanage or a childr?n's convalescent home, I for one will back her to the limit! Get me?" Rilla "'got him" admirably. She went around and gave Mother a kiss. "Any time I can do anything to help, let me know, Mother. I do so want to' see you: happy." Pauline was intently scruntinizing the two children. "Say, when they get a bit more fat on them, they'll be crackerjack models.?Mother, may I come down next summer and paint them?without limitation?" "Of course, you foolish girl. Did I ever refuse you anything you wanted?unless it was bad for you?" "By the way, Mother," spoke Rilla, with smiling curiosity, "when Billy and Margery grow up, will you be adopting another relay?" "eShucks laughed Mother Knox. "It's hard to tell. All I can say is that we'll simply have to wait and see." Save the Extra Expense of Probation on Your Estate ASK US HOW Practically EVERY MAN AND WOMAN has need of service such as our TRUST DEPARTMENT is specially qualified to give. OUR RECORD: OVER FIFTY YEARS OF EFFICIENT, CONSCIENCIOUS SERVICE Zion's Savings Bank and Trust C Zion's Savings Bank and Trust Company 1-3-5 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah WE PAY 4% ON SAVINGS DEPOSITS 1069 East 21st South Guaranteed L. D. S. Garments OUR SPECIAL OFFER With every order of $8.00 or over, you get a Fine Rubber Apron FREE. If you do not need Garments now. Get an order from your friends or neighbors On such orders you are entitled to the premium. Be sure and state whether you want NEW or OLD STYLE, MEN'S or LADIES. LONG or SHORT LEGS. A samba recommended for MEN and can be made with Double ack, PRICE LIST FOR SPRING AND SUMMER, 1925 No. 50 Light weight bleach- *No. 60 Heavy rib. Bleached cotton. Flat weave $.95 ed cotton............ 2.25 No. 51 Fine ribbed cotton No. 64 Fine lisle................... 2.25 in ladies' new style No. 66 Fine mercerized lisle 2.75 only *No 68 Heavy weight, 1/3 No. 3.25 52 Fine ribbed bleached, Cotton 1.50  No 54 Med. Ribbed bleach 1.75 *No. 70 Heavy weight. 50% wool 4.00 56 Medium ribbed unbleached 1.75 No 94 Pure silk -12.00 *No. 58 Heavy ribbed unbleached cotton 2.25 No. 98 Fine cotton with silk stripe....... 1.95. Buy Clothes on Payments  We Outfit The Family Credit to Out-Of-Town People NORD'S 270-272 STATE STREET When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine WHEN YOU BUY AN AUTOMATIC REFRIGERATOR It?s Surprising how long Ice lasts in the Automatic Refrigerator so thoroughly freshens the air in the Automatic that an union on the top e Ti era or shelf won't spoil the butter and milk refrigerator. The Automatic is so dry that you can scratch a match on the inside walls. Try these experiments with other refrigerators?see how the Automatic excels Automatic scientific air circulation how the MODERN FURNITURE CO.. 234 So. State St. Trade with Your Friends Free A bag of Marbles with each pair of Boys Mountaineer Overalls Ask your dealer for them THE FAMOUS Z. FACTORY OVERALLS MOUNTAINEER TRIPLE STITCH A strong, serviceable Overall, for. Every-day "SUMMIT STRONG SEAMS Will give you wonderful service. KANT-RIP Made of high grade denim ?reasonable_ in price?wears splendidly. Ask your dealer for them. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine: Trade With Your Friends le L. D. S. GARMENTS The "Temple Brand" Garments are handled only by your leading merchants. We make-a Variety of Grades and Weights to meet every requirement, with strings and buttons, long or short sleeves and legs as you want them according to seasonable desires. Samples submitted on request. For Ladies For Men No. 1?Flat Weave Ligt................$ 95 No. 902?Ribbed Light Weight....$1.25 No. 2?Ribbed Weave Light........ 125 No. 903?Ribbed Extra Quality... 1.75 No. 15?Extra Quality Flat............ 1.45 No. 925?Med. Light Weight........ 1.85 No. 803?Extra Quality Ribb......... 1.50 No. 962?Extra Fine Mercerized No. 862?Extra Fine Mercerized | CG) | ccc 3.00 Lisle 2.50 No. 975?Med. Heavy Weight...... 2.25 No. 800?Silk Stripe Med............... 1.75 No. 990?Heavy  Cotton........ 2.50 No. 850?Imp. Lisle................ 2.25 No. 9107?Wool and Cotton.......... 4.00 To insure a good fit give bust measure, height, and weight, specify whether garments are for men or women, and state whether long sleeves ankle length or short sleeves three quarter legs are desired. Double Backs 25c extra. Garments marked 15c pair extra. We prepay postage to all parts of United States. Oldest Knitting Company in Utah SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City Serving the Women to the State A large selection of cultural courses awaits the pleasure of Utah's young women at the State University. THE FIELDS OF EDUCATION, MUSIC, ART, HOME ECONOMICS and BUSINESS, OFFER SPLENDID OPPORTUNITIES. Urge your daughters to plan their educational work early. Now is the time for them to arrange to enter the summer quarter. Write for further information. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY.?. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine  A NEW SERIAL STORY "The Lost World" By ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE Other new features in the The Deseret News Kathleen Kaye, writing exclusively in the News. Secretary Hawkins?Everybody should read this. In the Garden with Luther Burbank. A dividend of 10% to all paid in advance Subscribers Subscribe Now Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY a Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear pere pair $1.95 Box of Three Pairs  $5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and. Durable Per Pair ....$1.50 Box of Three Pair $4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking  Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pair $4.25 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable. All Colors $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MRS ANNIE A JENSON 3rd EAST BRIGHAM CITY UTAH  are guaranteed pure, full strength and wonderfully rich in flavor. Your cakes and pastry will be improved by using Blue Pine Vanilla and Lemon Extracts. VANILLA extract When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
