[Vol12 | June 1925 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Efficient Stake Supervision Lotta Paul Baxter]

EFFICIENT STAKE SUPERVISION Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, Member of the General Board This little talk is culled from the reports of the successes of efficient stake leaders.

I wrote to some of the stakes and received their replies and am giving them to you here today just as they were sent to me.

If it had been possible to have written to all of the stakes in the Church we could have found valuable material from every stake in Zion, but I wrote to only a few of the nearby stakes.

The replies I received to the letters I sent out were an inspiration to me and J will read extracts from them: Successful Relief Society work depends upon close cooperation with President Williams and Secretary Lyman, and upon counseling with the Priesthood stake presidency in all contemplated activities.

There should be complete understanding and harmony with counselors and all members of the stake board.

Unity of stake board in thought and purpose and equal division of responsibility are essential.

In one stake each board member is requested to present two new ideas each month for the benefit of the work and these ideas are considered in board meeting.

Careful preparation for and conduct of union meeting is beneficial.

Proper supervision and help given in union meeting to ward leaders react in the ward work.

If work of the union meeting is of a high standard, the ward work is apt to be the same.

Stake workers should earnestly seek the Spirit of God to guide them in their responsible work.

The most efficient stake supervisors are spiritual-minded women who have a firm testimony of the gospel, a love for the work, and a vision of the future possibilities of the organization, and who know their officers and workers and are willing to cooperate with them for the good of the work.

An efficient stake supervisor will also uphold and sustain the Priesthood authorities.

Leaders should have an understanding of Relief Society work and be possessed of a sincerity that will attract people and will win their devotion and support.

Stake officers and board members should be selected prayerfully and with great care, with a consideration of each member for the 
 work she can best do.

Board members should understand that their work means individual responsibility as well as true cooperation.

This applies to ward organizations also.

To ask of others only that which you would be willing to do yourself is a good motto for officers to heed.

Effort shoud be made to interest as large a number as possible in Relief Society work, having as many as possible share the responsibilities. ° A sincere testimony of the gospel is fundamentl for successful leadership.

This, combined with executive ability and desire to serve, would make always for success.

To leave the work, not only with better methods but with more faith in the soul of every member, should be every officer's goal.

A first step in supervision is to gain confidence and support of all Relief Society workers.

To be a successful leader one must be able to include many people of different temperaments in the work and possess the ability to find good in all.

A leader must possess self-control and tact.

Supplementary to these reports, I have found in my own observation that one of the great contributing factors toward efficiency is to have the advisory high counselors and stake presidency thoroughly informed regarding all activities and ideals of Relief Society work.

The Relief Society stake president should make it known to the stake presidency that it is very desirable to have live, active, interested members of the High Council appointed to cooperate with the Relief Society in their work.

If for any reason the brethren chosen are unfamiliar with the Relief Society activities, the president should make an effort to inform them regarding the work and interest them in it.

Efficient stake workers will see, among other things, that the annual report is in the hands of the general secietary on tine; that stake and ward records and accounts are up to date; that the special date to collect and send in annual dues be observed; that all Maqazine lists of subscribers be.

Written legibly and promptly forwarded, and that all Relief Society funds be safeguarded and used for the purposes for which they were donated.

Relief Society conference delegates should return home from conference with a firm determination to comply with and put into practice, as nearly as possible, all suggestions and recommendations of the General Board.

They should endeavor to carry to their local officers the spirit of the conference and a summary of the instructions.

Members of the General Board have visited you in your various stakes and have witnessed your devotion to this cause, and the standard of efficiency you have attained.

We have all come home filled with admiration for your efforts and splendid results.

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 291 Your Share You don't have to carry the whole of the load; The world only asks what is fair.

The task will be done and the burden be borne, If everyone shoulders his share.

There's a part of the work that's intended for you, And, be you a boy or a man, You've nothing to fear at the end of the day, If you do just the best that you can.

Don't bother so much about somebody else; Just think of your own little work.

If you only keep busy, you'll not have the time To notice how other folks shirk.

Do all that you can to bring cheer in the world And overcome evil with good.

There's no need to fear or cherish regret, When you've done just the best that you could. —Louis E. Thayer.