[Vol6 | April 1919 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Son Bessie Van Wagenen]
By  Bessie  Van  Wagenen. 
O  !  how  I  miss  you,  baby  boy. 
Thy  tiny  body  pressed  against  my  breast. 
The  little  rosebud  mouth. 
The  glossy  curls. 
The  chubby  little  neck  I  loved  to  kiss, 
Thine  eyes,  deep,  dark,  like  pools, — 
All  these,  sweet  little  love  boy,  how  I  miss ! 
They  say  your  mission  here  on  earth  is  done. 
Ah !  well  I  know  now  what  thy  mission  was. 
It  was  to  turn  me  from  the  shallow  path  of  life 
Into  the  path  that  leads  to  paradise ; 
And  make  me  wake  and  realize 
That  life  is  nothing  after  all 
L^nless  I  live  so  as  to  gain  eternal  life. 
They  say  your  mission  here  on  earth  is  done. 
Ah,  little  boy,  I  could  not  call  you  back 
Into  this  world  of  sorrow  and  of  strife ; 
But,  little  spirit  baby,  hover  clo.se ; 
Help  me  to  say,  "My  Father's  will  be  done." 
Help  me  to  live  the  Father's  laws  so  well 
That    when  my  work  is  finished  here  on  earth 
That  I  may  meet  our  Father  and  my  son.

The  Funny- Bone  Route. 
By  Ruth  Moench  Bell. 
"I'll  have  to  get  the  raiment  for  the  'Little  White  Bird.' 
Edith  Sherrill  spoke  diffidently,  well  knowing  how  Arch  would 
take  it.  "I've  put  it  off  till  the  last  minute.  There  is  so  much 
hand  work.     And  hand  embroidery  is  so  much  more  beautiful 
and  inexpensive  than  lace  or  embroidery  one  can  buy." 
"Oh,  cotton  goods  are  so  high  just  now.  Better  wait  a 
few  weeks."  Arch  dismissed  the  matter  easily.  "Peace  is  here. 
No  more  cotton  for  munitions.     It's  bound  to  drop." 
Archie  Sherrill  had  a  comfortable  masculine  assumption 
that  the  time  to  face  any  difficulty  was  when  the  difficulty  was 
actually  upon  one.  No  preparedness  for  him!  No  crossing 
bridges  before  the  bridge  loomed  up  in  sight.  No  cutting 
kindlings  the  night  before  or  saving  for  a  rainy  day.  Such 
care-free,  take-no-thought- for-the-morrow  existence  resulted  in 
an  easy  good  nature  that  made  Eidth  almost  envious  of  her 
big,  jolly  husband. 
And  yet  there  are  matters  that  cannot  be  postponed,  as 
Edith  very  well  knew.  The  quick  tears  sprang  to  her  eyes  after 
her  husband  had  kissed  her  good-bye  and  hastened  to  his  -daily 
work. 
"What  'little  white  bird,'  mother?"  Archie  Junior  enquired 
Edith  caught  him  to  her  heart.  "It's  a  wonderful  little  white 
soul  that  flutters  down  from  heaven  into  the  arms  of  some  mother 
waiting  to  receive  it,"  she  exclaimed. 
"And  why  does  it  need — " 
"Raiment?"  she  supplied. 
"I  thought  birds  had  feathers  and  wings." 
"Little  White  Birds  have  to  give  up  their  feathers  and 
wings  when  they  come  to  the  waiting  mothers,"  Edith  explained. 
"Else  would  they  fly  back  to  heavenly  Father?"  Archie 
Junior  asked. 
"I'm  afraid  they  would,  dear,"  the  mother  clasped  her  five 
year  old  boy  close  with  that  passion  of  tenderness  an  expectant 
mother  feels  for  her  brood. 
Scarce  three  months  and  the  Little  White  Bird  would  flutter 
into  its  nest.  And  there  wasn't  even  a  tiny  shirt  to  put  on  her. 
Edith  was  sure  it  would  be  her.  Archie  did  so  need  a  small 
sister.  And  Archie,  boy  fashion,  had  gone  through  every  frag- 
m.ent  of  clothing  she  had  provided  for  him  so  there  was  not  even 
a  left-over.

212  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
Edith  looked  into  her  purse.  Nothing  there  except  the 
change  she  had  "forgotten"  to  hand  back  to  Arch  when  trades- 
men had  presented  their  bills,  as  they  had  a  habit  of  doing, 
just  at  meal  time.  Tradesmen  are  quick  to  discern  which  carries 
the  purse,  and  present  their  bills  accordingly.  Edith  had  suf- 
ficient perspicacity  to  know  why  bills  came  when  her  husband 
was  at  home,  and  it  was  as  humiliating  as  it  was  to  turn  to  her 
husband  for  change  in  the  stores.  But  what  could  she  do  when 
Arch  took  such  a  boyish  delight  in  slipping  his  hand  into  his 
pocket  as  though  the  pile  of  coins  there  had  fathomless  depths, 
and  handing  out  the  money  with  a  Squire  Bountiful  air  that 
was  truly  remarkable  considering  how  little  there  actually  was 
in  that  pocket. 
"If  I  could  only  have  my  position  back  for  one  month," 
Edith  sighed,  "sixty-five  dollars  a  month  for  a  few  hours  a  day 
of  stenography  and  type-writing  seems  wondrous  wealth  now." 
It  was  almost  as  much  as  Archie's  eighty  dollars  is  worth.  In 
fact,  sixty-five  dollars  for  one  was  considerably  more  than  eighty 
dollars  for  three.  Still  eighty  dollars  would  'have  done  if  only 
Arch  had  not  assumed  the  sole  right  to  spend  it. 
"Sixty-five  dollars!  Just  one  sixty-five  dollars  would  give 
enough  for  the  layette  and  several  incidental  expenses  besides. 
To  earn  it,  I  would  have  to  leave  Archie,  Jr.,  with  some  one  else 
all  day,"  she  reflected. 
Leave  Archie,  Jr.,  all  day !  Edith  caught  him  to  her  jealously. 
Let  some  one  else  tie  up  his  precious  fingers  when  they  got 
cut!  Some  one  else  kiss  his  bruises  and  hear  his  marvelous  plans 
and  adventures !  Why  just  one  hour  with  him  was  worth  several 
thousand  sixty-five-^dollar  checks.  And  besides,  no  one  would 
engage  her  as  stenographer  now!  It  was  just  as  well!  She  was 
not  asking  any  one ! 
Still,  somehow,  the  layette  must  be  purchased.  And  noth- 
ing would  jolt  Arch  out  of  his  complacence  save  a  sale  or  the 
arrival  of  the  tiny  creature. 
Evening  came  and  with  it  Arch,  his  arms  full  of  parcels,  his 
face  beaming  like  a  Santa  Claus.  He  did  so  enjoy  spending  like  a 
prince.  One  glance  at  his  face  and  arms  and  Edith's  resent- 
ment vanished.  It  always  did.  How  she  loved  his  big  hands  and 
broad  shoulders  and  strong  arms  and  his  unquenchable  good- 
nature. 
"Something  to  .surprise  you,"  he  exclaimed  giving  her  a 
hearty  kiss  in  which  personal  satisfaction  and  anticipation  of 
her  pleasure  were  the  chief  factors. 
"I  swept  up  the  whole  counter  at  Longbecks.  They  had  a 
sale  on  ready-to-wear  children's  clothes  and  I  made  them  a  lump