EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. II. SEPTEMBER, 1915. Vol. II. SEPTEMBER, 1915. No. 
 The men and women who laid the foundations of the Church in modern times, beginning with the great Prophet Joseph Smith, on down to our present leader, President Joseph F. Smith, ? these and their associates knew the value and historical importance of the work they were doing. They were, and are, makers of history ? and they knew it then, and know it today. The Spirit of the Lord giveth understanding, and individuals who enjoy that Spirit know when great history is in the making. Few events in history will transcend the recent International Congress of Genealogy. President Joseph F. Smith remarked at the evening session of our Utah Genealogical Day, July 27, that the labor now going forward in our temples, and the preparatory work performed by the genealogists were the most important requirements upon the people today. We are justified therefore in saying that the Congress just closed was a most important world-movement. Many of those who took part scarcely realized this; but it will be understood some day by all of our Father's children. EDITORIAL. 421 Just as two cords are doubly strong, and two hundred cords wound together, hold a ship at anchor, so two individual genealogists, and two hundred genealogical associations grouped together, will anchor a great movement of genealogical unification and solidarity, with a scope and interest which can scarcely be estimated by those not gifted with prophetic vision. The results of the work done at the Panama-Pacific Exposition rest "on the knees of the gods." There is a personal note in this recent history which is a life-and-death matter to every one. What shall be your attitude, and mine, to the work projected by the "International Genealogical Federation?" We are weighed in the daily balance, and the results mean progress, life, light, happiness, here and hereafter, to you and to me, or it means the decay and degeneration of hope, faith, and joy. What history shall we, as individuals, make in this movement? The initiative, the courage, and the tact of the California Genealogists won the admiration and gratitude of every intelligent genealogist in the country. Add to that the breadth of sympathy, the whole-souled welcome, and the generous treatment, accorded to every visitor present, including each member of the Utah Genealogical party, and you have a combination which would spell success for any enterprise. Californians spoke of Utah as the father of California; right well has the debt been liquidated in the recent marvelous Exposition, where Utahns have been welcomed and honored as never before in our history. Especially was this true of the Genealogical Congress. No favor that could be shown, no entertainment that could be arranged, no honor that could be given, was withheld from the Utah party, by the Californians. Time and eternity cannot efface our pleasant memories, nor suffice for the expression of our gratitude. May it not be true that the power and influence of the multitudes of departed spirits ? who have rejoiced over this movement far more than can we ? have not these influences conspired to bring about much that has been done? The courteous, gracious, and unprejudiced attitude of the Californians, as of other genealogists there, may owe something to the influence of departed ancestors who there saw a wide swing of their prison doors. History has been making not only in Utah, and not only in California, but also behind the veil, in the shadowy realms of the departed spirits. Blessed are they who give eyesight to blind eyes, who "bring out the prisoners from the prison, and them that sit in darkness out of the prison-house." Guide Lessons. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week. Theology and Testimony. Second Week. the passover or sacrament. We who are privileged to partake of the Lord's Supper each Sunday, scarcely attach the importance and sacredness to that mystic ordinance which was felt and observed by the Jews, in partaking of their yearly feast of the Passover, The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is really the same ordinance as the Passover, modified by the Savior himself, to fit the world's needs after his death. Most of the Christian churches observe this rite but only at rare intervals. Catholics term it Holy Mass; other Christian churches speak of it as Communion. By the Latter-day Saints, who have been privileged by the Lord to partake of this wonderful and mystic sacrament each Sunday, it should be observed in the most sacred, and beautiful manner. The students will find this subject treated upon clearly and fully in the Compendium, under the head of "The Passover or Sacrament:" "This word (passover) comes from the Hebrew verb, pesach, which signifies to pass, to leap, or skip over. They gave the name of Passover to the feast which was established in commemoration of the coming forth out of Egypt, because the night before their departure, the destroying angel, who slew the firstborn of the Egyptians, passed over the Israelites, because they were marked with the blood of the lamb which was killed the evening before; and which for this reason was called the Paschal Lamb." ? Cruden's Concordance. We have an account of the institution of the Passover in the twelfth chapter of Exodus. The Lord commanded Israel, saying, "And the day shall be unto you for a memorial; and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations; ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance for ever" (verse 14). This command rather implies that there might be a change in the manner and time of keeping this passover, by the house of Israel. The essential part of it is that it shall be kept as a feast forever. GUIDE LESSONS. 423 That the Passover, as instituted the evening before the departure of Israel out of Egypt, was typical of the sacrifice of the Lamb of God, appears to be the generally received opinion of all who have faith in the Bible and its institutions. It is evident that the apostle Paul entertained this view of the subject when he made the following assertion, "For even Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us" (I Cor. 5:7). That our Savior considered the ordinance of the Passover a part of the Mosaic law which was to be done away in his sufferings and death, is evident from the wish which he expressed to his disciples, while keeping the Passover with them the evening before his death, "With desire I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer" (Luke 22:15). The type was no longer needed and the ordinance was changed to commemorate the great sacrifice he was about to make. Hence, he commanded his disciples to partake of the bread and wine in remembrance of him. QUESTIONS. 1. What is the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper? 2. What was the Jewish Passover? 3. Ask some converted sister to explain the Methodist way of observing this rite. The Catholic. The Episcopalian. Other sects. 4. What is the difference between the Passover and the Sacrament? 5. What is the likeness between the two ceremonies? 6. Who should administer the sacrament? 7. Who should receive it? 8. What should be our attitude towards the Lord's Supper? Genealogy. Third Week, relationship. This subject is somewhat difficult to most people, but it is extremely important to all who would understand how to prepare temple records, and to adjust the ties of relationship properly and accurately. Relationship clues are far more vital than are generally believed, and no record should be left without these ties being well established. We told you in our last lesson that the heir should be the same person, living or dead, because of the necessity of counting relationship from the heir to the dead. Let us make an illustration: You will see that Brigham Young is the heir of the family and that relationship is counted from him back to the other names. He is the son, grandson, nephew or cousin of them, and it is his relationship to the dead that is named, not theirs to him. This is very much clearer and easier than any other way. Let each student take his parents, and then his grandparents, naming himself as heir, for purposes of illustration, and prepare his lesson on this model. Home Ethics and Art. WORK. Work is the heritage of man. It is his mission on the earth ? his everlasting duty. The Lord told Adam that he should earn his bread by the sweat of his brow. "In the sweat of thy face, shalt thou eat bread." One writer, in speaking of work, says: "Whoever prohibits or prevents a man from this, his sacred appointment, to labor, is that man's deadliest enemy, and all men are called upon to do what is in their power towards delivering him from this enemy. If it is his own indolence that prevents or prohibits him, then his own indolence is the enemy from which he must be delivered." Thomas Carlyle says: "All work is noble: Blessed is he that has found his work: let him ask no other blessedness. Two men I honor, and no third. First, the toilworn craftsman, who with earth-made implement laboriously conquers the earth, and makes her man's. A second man I honor, and still more highly: him who is seen toiling for the spiritually indispensable; not daily bread, but the bread of life. These two in all their degrees I honor; all else is chaff and dust, which let the wind blow whither it listeth. We must all toil, or steal (howsoever we name our stealing), which is worse." Every necessity and comfort of life is produced through the effort and labor of some person or persons. There is no article of food or clothing so simple that it can be procured without work. If this necessary labor is not performed by the individual who actually eats the food or wears the clothing, some one else must do the work. Thus, it may be clearly seen, that the greater the number of people who are idle, the greater must necessarily be the labor of those who do work, and the heavier must be the burdens which the workers are compelled to bear. There are only three classes of people that should be exempt from work: the very young, the very old, and those who are ill. Young children are expected to live by the work of their parents. 
 the aged have earned a necessary rest, and those who are ill and afflicted, must be labored for by other hands. All others should work. The idle rich and the idle poor are equally a burden and a menace to society. However easy it may be, from the financial point of view, for some parents to rear their children without work, society cannot afford to let them do this and maintain a proper social balance. Parents should put forth whatever of time and effort may be required of them, in order to teach their children how to work, and to show children the true value of work. Every child should be trained to earn his living; and this training should be begun early. The child should acquire the habit of work, and industry in his youth. He should get this habit in his nerve-centers at the earliest possible period. A child who grows up with idle hands is never the adept at any work that he might have been had he been given the opportunity to begin work early. Many men, who by industry and perseverance, have become eminently successful in a financial way, wonder how it is that their boys seem to have no talents whatever in the same direction. Such fathers do not stop to realize that in order to achieve efficiency along any lines, boys must have a certain training, in early childhood, and must go through certain experiences while the mind is plastic. If it is desirable that the son of the wealthy man be like the father, this son must have a training, or experience similar to the training and experience that the father has had. This may not mean that he should do exactly the things that his father did, and duplicate the experience that his father had ? but it does mean that he must be brought up along the same general lines of efficiency training. It is a noticeable fact that the daughter of the hard-working, industrious mother, is often a shiftless, irresponsible girl and woman. This is at first glance a thing to be wondered at. On a second thought, however, we understand how it comes about. The mother foolishly does all of the work herself, and the daughter is thus deprived of the opportunity to tread the path of training which her mother enjoyed. What a mistake this is! If any girl is to be industrious, she must have early experience in the school of industry; and if she is to be a worker in the world, she must have long training in the school of efficiency and hard work. It is of course true that some children turn out badly in spite of the best training; and some become useful members of society, even when their surroundings are most unfortunate. There are some who are brought up in idleness, and who later become workers; there are others who are brought up to work, and later become idlers. As a rule, however, everything depends upon the