[Vol9 | August 1922 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for October - Lesson III - Literature]

LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in October) In our tirst lesson, introducing hymns, we told you that one of the most famous hymns in all Christendom is, "A mighty fortress is our God." written by Martin Luther. This hymn becomes doubly significant when we take into consideration the fact that Luther wrote the words, and is in all probability the composer of the music. This music, thought to be Luther's, has remained from the first the most popular music for the hymn. Another fact connected with this hymn will undoubtedly appeal to ail Americans. Despite the fact that Thomas Carlyle gave us a translation. The translation made by the Rev. Henry Hedge. A graduate of Harvard University, is rapidly supplanting all other translations. The famous old Saint Augustine defined a hymn as a song  with praise to God. Says he, "If thou singest and praisest not God, thou utterest no hymn." Dr, Johnson defines a hymn "as a song of adoration to some superior being," of course, that superior being must be God, according to St. Augustine. The scope of the hymn has been broadened since St. Augustine's day; yet on one thing authorities are generally agreed, that a hymn must radiate a spirit of uplift; consequently any song void of the spirit of uplift would be deficient as a hymn, "A mighty fortress is our God," born of the great Protestant reformation, embraces any and all of the definitions here quoted. The fact that Luther gave to the world the German Bible has had a tendency to obscure the fact that he also gave the world a catechism and a hymnbook, thereby making of him the greatest of German hymnists. He began to write hymns in 1523, and continued to do so for twenty years, yet, as one writer puts it, with such a high regard for quality rather than quantity that he averaged only one a year. His first German hymnbook appeared in 1524. It contained only eight hymns, four of them from Luther. He wrote in his life about twenty-four hymns and translated about an equal number from the Latin. There is abundant evidence that Luther's hymn book was most valuable in spreading the Reformation; "The whole people," they said, "is singing itself into' the Lutheran doctrine." "A mighty fortress is our God" has gained such preeminence over all other hymns Luther has written that is is commonly known as Luther's hymn, and very commonly thought of as his only hymn. The forty-sixth Psalm, the song of the Hebrew prophet David, was the inspiration of this song: "God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble." The date of the composition of the hymn is unknown, but one thing is certain concerning it that it soon became widely known among the Protestants. The German poet, Heine, called it the Marseilles of the Reformation. "A mighty fortress is our God, A bulwark never failing, Our helper he, amid the flood Of mortal ills prevailing. For still our ancient foe. Doth seek to work his woe, His craft and power are great, And armed with cruel hate, On this earth is not his equal."  In words of great majesty Luther tell us that God is a mighty fortress to protect us from the wiles of the evil one. "Did we in our own strength confide, Our striving would be losing; Were not the right man on our side, The man of God's own chosing. Did you ask who that may be? Christ Jesus it is he; Lord Sabaoth is his name, From age to age the same, And he must win the battle." Few hymns set forth as clearly as does the second stanza of this hymn our absolute dependence on Christ, as our Redeemer, how it must needs be that we should be overcome by the craft and power of the evil one, were it not that "the man of our God's own chosing" is on our side. "And though this world with devils filled Should threaten to undo us, We will not fear for God hath willed His truth to triumph through us. Let goods and kindred go. This mortal life also, The body they may kill; God's truth abideth still, His kingdom is forever." Surely a marvelous expression of faith in the triumph of righteousness, and the preciousness of the eternal life, and the velue of things spiritual when compared with all else in the world. The Latter-day Saints have sacrificed kindred and friends, worldly honors and worldly goods many times for the gospel, counting all else as nothing, if not within its embrace. The Saints have held that Martin Luther was inspired of God; surely this hymn is one of the evidences of the power of God resting upon him. The Reformation, carried forth by Luther and other great evangelists, paved the way for that which is greater, the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, restored through the great latter-day prophet, Joseph Smith. Luther's hymn is a real contribution to song literature, hymnology in particular, because of the exaltation of the thought and the emotion and the adequate way in which he has been able to express the thought and emotion. There is a very fine balance  observed throughout, a balance continually sought for by writers, but not often acquired. QUESTIONS A'ND PROBLEMS What do we mean by the Reformation? What period of time did Martin Luther's life cover? Into what language did Luther translate the Bible? Have someone in the class read the 46th Psalm.. Take the three expressions, "God is our refuge and strength," "A mighty fortress is our God," and "Rock of Ages, cleft for me," and see if you can trace a resemblance in the thought of each of these expressions. '6. Who made use of the first expression? Of what nationality was the poet? Who made the second expression? Of what nationality was the second writer. Who made use of the - third expression? What was the last author's nationality? 7. Of what nationality is the man who has given the Christian world the most acceptable translation of Luther's hymn in the English language? 8. If possible have your organist find the music to the hymn, and have it sung during the meeting. 9. Name some L. D. S. Composer or composers who have written both the words and music to a hymn? 10. Give some instances of Latter-day Saint hymns assisting in the conversion of persons to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. WR WN LESSON IV