		  GRANITE STAKE.

	The sixth quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of the Granite Stake of Zion
was held at Big Cottonwood, Tuesday,
November 12, 1901, President Emma S.
Woodruff presiding.
	The choir and congregation sang “Praise
to the man.” The opening prayer was
offered by President Emily W. Stevenson.
Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning."
	There were present of the General Relief
Society. President Bathsheba W. Smith,
Annie T. Hyde, her first Counselor, and
Emmeline B. Wells, secretary, President
M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt Lake Stake,
Sisters Mary Freeze and Helen W. Wood-
ruff, of the Y. L. M. I. A. Board, Sister
Margaret P. Young, Bishop S. A. Casto
and Elder William Taylor.
	The secretary called the roll, showing
all the Stake officers present and represen-
tatives from every ward except one. Min-
utes of morning session of previous confer-
ence read and approved.
	President Emma S. Woodruff kindly
welcomed the sisters and brethren and felt
blest to have so many of the leading sisters
with us today. Called for verbal reports
from the wards.
	President Sarah B. Gibson reported
Sugar Ward; Counselor Mary Ellen Sper-
ry, Farmers Ward; President Petriua Jen-
son, Forest Dale; President Mary B.
Hamilton, Mill Creek; Secretary Amelia
King, East Mill Creek; President Emily
W. Stevenson, Big Cottonwood; President
Mary Rawlins, South Cottonwood.
	Most of these sisters spoke of the increase
of membership in their respective branches,
their desire to store grain, aiding of the
missionaries and the union that existed
among them.
	President M. Isabella Horne: “My dear
brothers and sisters, I am very happy this
morning as I feel that I am among my
children and that I am their mother. I
know you have such a good president. I
have known her for many years. I know
her to be a steadfast and energetic woman.
We are laying up treasures in heaven, for
this is a charity work, clothing the naked,
feeding the poor, comforting and caring for
the sick. I am sorry there are not more
identified in the Relief Society. The books
are to be opened, and we are to be judged
out of the books; also the tithing books, we
should have our names enrolled therein. I
am thankful today for the events that are
transpiring. I am thankful that I have
lived to see President Joseph F. Smith
President of this Church. I feel that the
times need such a vigorous character. To-
morrow will be his birthday, he will be
sixty-three years old.” She spoke of the
perilous times at the time of his birth, and
the hardships and privations that his
mother and the Saints had passed through.
“And now,” said she, “President Joseph
F. Smith is at the head of the Church,
where his uncle was.”
	President Emma S. Woodruff said: “Sis-
ters, we all feel that Sister Horne is our
mother.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith: “I am
pleased to meet the sisters here, also the
brethren. I am always glad to see them.”
Spoke of having been through the good
times and the bad, of the army when she
saw it coming upon the Saints. Felt
satisfied that they could not put down
Mormonism. Referred to the reports of

[Column 2]
the sisters, of the union among them.
“That is what I like to hear,” said Aunt
Bathsheba, “and the putting away of
jealousies and fault-finding is needed in
these days.” Spoke of having felt some-
what worried when President Snow passed
away without having organized the Relief
Society, soon after having a dream con-
cerning the Relief Society and seeing the
Prophet Joseph watching over them. This
satisfied her and she felt that the Prophet
would look after the Relief Society. Refered
to those words of the Prophet in regard to
the power, influence and growth of the
Relief Society. She urged the sisters to
be faithful and not go into bye and forbid-
den paths.
	President Emma W. Woodruff: “Sister
Smith said that she was glad to hear that
the sisters in the wards were so united. I
want to say that the sisters of the Stake
are also united and that I love the sisters
of Granite Stake.”
	“Sunshine in the Soul,” was sung with
feeling, by Miss Beatrice Crismon.
	Sister Helen Woodruff spoke of her
visit with Sister Mary A. Freeze to the
Granite Stake academy. Of the beautiful
spirit which prevailed in the school and
among the teachers and students. Of
the desire to take the counsel of their older
sisters and her love to hear these dear sis-
ters (Aunt Bathsheba and Sister Horne)
speak.
	Bishop S. A. Casto: “My dear sisters
and brethren, I have been pleased to hear
the reports, and especially to hear Sisters
Smith and Horne. I feel that they are our
mothers. I like to be with them and feel
their spirit. I pray the Lord to bless you
all. Amen.”
	Sister Mary Freeze said that she had a
desire to speak and testify of the recent
organization of the Relief Society
and Sister Bathsheba’s dream. Re-
ferred to the remarks of President Woodruff,
“that the eyes of the Prophet were over his
people,” and the words of President
Franklin D. Richards to the sisters, “How
thankful they ought to be that they could
be brought out from the worries and
anxieties of homes into these meetings to
partake of these heavenly influences.”
	Sister Elizabeth Boise: “I desire to
honor and fear God. Without His bless-
ings we could do nothing.” Felt pleased
to see the rising generation go forth and
gain a knowledge of the Gospel. Realized
that the Spirit of God was in our midst to-
day.
	President Emma S. Woodruff: “Sisters,
we wish to dismiss on time. I feel grate-
ful to the sisters for coming out to visit us.
This is their first mission out since their
organization, and I think we ought to re-
member and appreciate it. Sister Crismon’s
song so charmed me. She could not have
sung anything to suit me better.”
	President Emily W. Stevenson announ-
ced that they had provided dinner for all
present.
	After singing, “Guide us, O Thou great
Jehovah,” conference adjourned until two
p. m.
	Afternoon session, President Emma S.
Woodruff presiding. Opened with singing,
“For the strength of the hills.” Prayer
by President Mary Rawlins. Singing,
“Softly beams the sacred dawning.”
Minutes of the afternoon conference of
August 13, read and approved.
	Murray Ward reported by Counselor


(Column 1)
Sarah Ann Brown; Taylorsville, Counselor
Mary P. Brown; Hunter, President Char-
lotte Nielson.
	The reports were spirited and filled with
a desire to continue in the good work.
	Duett, “Sometime We'll Understand,”
sung by Sisters Maggie Hull and Maria B.
Winder, accompanied on the organ by Miss
Mabelle Snow, which was very much
appreciated.
	Counselor Elizabeth H. Park reported
Granger; President Eliza White, Wilford;
Counselor Minnie Myers, Grant.
	All gave in a good report and spoke of
their love for and determination to sustain
our aged sisters, the officers of the General
Board of the Relief Society who had
favored us with their presence today.
	President Emma Woodruff introduced
Sister Emmeline B. Wells as the General
Secretary of the Relief Society.
	Secretary E. B. Wells: “Mrs. President
and ladies, brothers and sisters: “I am
very much interested in Relief Society
work. It certainly is a grand organization.”
Referred to many who had died who had
been cared for and laid out by the Relief
Society sisters, and if there is sickness
among the poor the Relief Society sisters
care for them.	There are so many things
the Relief Society sisters do that are not on
the books. “I consider that the best educa-
tion that I have had, except the Gospel,
is in the Relief Society.	There are fifty
Stakes of Zion, each with a Stake organ-
zation of the Relief Society, besides the
missions.	There is a good society in
Chicago near Nauvoo, where the first Re-
ief Society was organized, and away in
the north Montana and Oregon and
branches in San Francisco, Los Angeles,
Sacramento and one or two smaller places
in California and wherever there is a
branch, there we have a Relief Society
organized.” Spoke of the good it would
do young men who intended going on
missions to visit the Relief Society and
learn something about how they were
managed, as they would likely need this
information when they get in their mission-
ary fields. Thought our young mothers
should attend and bring their babes with
them. “We want to take this work of
training our children into the Relief Society,
and I believe that in the school and in the
home love will do more than anything.
We are told that love will rule the world.
It is said of Aunt Zina that she loved every
one. Mother Whitney said that humility
would bring down the blessing of heaven.”
Made other interesting remarks on the
necessity of our young girls attending
these meetings, felt that they would some
day feel it a great privilege to belong to
the society organized by the Prophet
Joseph. Thought if President Winder
could do the many things he does at his age,
and President Smith preside over so many
organizations our young girls can surely
work in the Relief Society, and not slacken
their energies in their Mutuals.“Our
Woman’s Building I am very anxious
about. We want a place where we can
keep our records. We want a place where
we can have a library and a bureau where
information can be obtained concerning
organizations, and in fact, all information
concerning our church. This work is sure
to increase and I believe that the Relief
Society will increase in all its magnitude as
the Church advances. I ask the Lord to
bless our president, Sister Bathsheba, and

(Column 2)
her counselors and all who are here.”
	A solo was then sung with much feeling
by Sister Maggie Hull.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde: “My dear
sisters, I do appreciate the invitation that I
have received.	I feel that we have had a
feast if we could only realize and put it into
practice.” She gave an interesting account
of her visit to the City of New York and of
the mission in Kansas City, where she
found a noble lot of young missionaries.
“You mothers,” said she, “have occasion
to be proud of them.” Spoke of the feel-
ing like death that came over her when
visiting the City of Nauvoo. Felt thank-
ful and thought what a great blessing to
our people that they were driven out and
permitted to come to a land where they
could broaden and grow. Feft that it was
all in the providence of the Lord. Prayed
that the Lord would bless this organiza-
tion and the new officers.
	President Woodruff called for some of the
missionaries to report briefly of their
missionary work. Sister Louie Stevenson,
from Forest Dale and a missionary from
East Mill Creek bore their testimony and
spoke of the enjoyment they had in mis-
sionary work.
	Brother William Taylor:	“As far as I
am concerned as an individual, I feel that
we have had a feast. We have had beauti-
ful singing and instructions and we have
had the Spirit of the Lord. These are
familiar faces, Sister Horne and Aunt
Bathsheba. These dear sisters have trod-
den paths that will take them back into the
presence of their Father, and thousands
are taking the same path. There is only
one path we can take safely, that is in the
line of our duty. I know that we are
engaged in the work of God and that God
lives, and I know that Joseph Smith was a
prophet of God.
	A song by little Miss Ruthie Stevenson,
accompanied by Miss Hattie Stevenson,
was sweetly sung.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith: “I’ve
been very highly interested in the speaking
and singing, especially, what she said
seemed so innocent and wise. I was not
very old when the Gospel was restored,
but I had a testimony that Brother Joseph
was a true prophet and the Book of Mormon
was true.	And when the armies came up
I knew that they could not put down
Mormonism. I have had great faith in all
our leaders, also all of our sisters, in Sister
Emma when she was president. I believe
they allayed prejudice when she and Sister
Eliza went to see the Governor of Illinois.
I have Sister Eliza’s book that she took
minutes in, and I read it over often. I feel
that the secretaries need to be prayed for as
well as the presidents. Related an incident
of President Young’s life when he saw the
Prophet Joseph and asked him this ques-
tion:	“Brother Joseph, what have you
got for me to say to the people.” “Tell
them to get the Holy Ghost.” Aunt
Bathsheba said that we should not neglect
the dead, and as often as we could should
go to the Temple and work for the dead.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde made some
very interesting remarks concerning her
trip and visit to Washington, and one very
interesting feature was the expressed wish
to her from a congressman of Missouri to
present her to the President of the United
States.
	President Emma S. Woodruff urged the
sisters to visit the strangers when they

(Column 3)
come into their wards and the poor and
destitute. “Aud I am glad,” said she,
“to hear Sister Wells speak about our
young girls and young men visiting the
Relief Society and learning something of
the way they are carried on.” Thanked
the president of the Relief Society, Bishop,
people of the ward and all who have taken
part in any way to make our visit and
meeting interesting. Adjourned the confer-
ence for three months.
	The choir and congregation arose and
sang “Our God we raise to Thee.” Bene-
diction by Bishop S A. Casto.
