[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.
	This year has been one of thrilling
events and must occasion some serious reflec-
tions, and now as it draws towards its
close, and the Holiday time comes near,
we cannot but take a retrospective view of
the past, and recall what this first year of
the new century has brought about. To
attempt giving it in detail would fill
volumes; even here in Utah many im-
portant things have taken place, and one
may say, too, that much has been accom-
plished in many directions.
	This is the time of the year when one
wishes to look upon the bright side of
things and take a cheerful view of the pres-
ent, knowing that a kind Providence has
vouchsafed many blessings to us who
dwell here in these peaceful vales, as
well as all mankind, and we should not be
unmindful of each other, and our children
ought to have a realizing sense of the
gratitude they owe to their Heavenly 
Father for all His goodness, and that we
are permitted to enjoy such a multiplicity
of the good things of this life; and if there
are those who are in sorrow or in want,
they should be sought out and comforted
and made happy, as far as human aid can
reach in soothing their afflictions or grief.
	The golden rule is always a guide for the
Saints to follow, to do to others as we
would have them do unto us, will bring
more true happiness than any other course
of action.
	Christmas is generally given up almost
wholly to the children, and they are the
ones to receive all the benefits or gifts
Santa Claus may or can bring. They dream
of him for weeks beforehand, and long im-
patiently for the time to come.
	We look on and rejoice to see so much
happiness; and yet some of us at least can-
not help feeling that in this day and age
many of the customs and practices observed
are tending towards selfishness and extrava-
gance. If we talk about it, it is not always
acceptable, and the saying, “Times have
changed,” is alluded to, and “Do let the
children enjoy themselves once a year; there
will be sober realities enough later on,”
and such like sayings. And so we join in
the merriment of the little people, and let
them believe in the Santa Claus myth often
instead of letting them know the truth of
the origin of the day, and what it means to
the world in which we live.
	It is well, perhaps, that there is a time
set apart, (call it by what name you will)

[Column 2]
in which people feel they should remember
one another, or it may be the selfishness
that has become so apparent in the latter
times might get the upper hand of man-
kind altogether. And, therefore, one can-
not help thinking Christmas and holiday
week a blessing, even though some
excesses or extravagances are indulged in,
or some people go to extremes in one way
or another.
	Parents are anxious to make the children
happy, and the older children at least,
should be just as desirous of contributing to
the joy of the parents. To be loving,
obedient and grateful towards those who
are older or in any way the benefactors, and
especially to parents, is far more acceptable
and happifying than gifts. The gift of
love is the greatest of all, and where there
is generous love, gifts are of comparatively
little consequence. Gentle words and
kindly acts, a smiling countenance and a
desire to make others happy by sweetness
and gracious manner, are far better in the
young people than the choicest gifts with-
out these beautiful manifestations of
nobility of soul.
	Yet the world lauds those who can give
of their wealth, and thinks little of those
who have only kindness and heavenly
charity to bestow.
	Yet we must not rail against the world or
abuse the people, for, after all, it is a pretty
good world. 
	Long years ago one of the greatest and
grandest of men wrote in an album this
sentiment: “Notwithstanding all that is
said about it, this is a grand old world.”
	So let us make the best of it we can each
of us, and help to create happiness and
every other possible good, and be grateful
for all blessings and benefits; and teach it to
the children, everybody’s children, as oppor-
tunity presents.
	Ingratitude is the sister and handmaid of
pride; on the contrary gratitude is pleasing
in the sight of God, and is akin to humility,
which is a stranger to pride. When one is
grateful it is in itself a compensation that is
worth possessing; worth striving for—it
banishes selfishness. Do we appreciate as
we should the blessings of our daily lives?
and above all are we grateful for all the
benefits and gifts of God? Do we teach
these things as we should? Are we not all
lacking in this respect? It is to Him we
owe all! Every hour we should devote to
His service, not only on occasions, but con-
secrate all our lives, our talents to Him, and
the work He has established for the redemp-
tion of the human race.
	Light has come into the world and the
Saints who have seen and known of it should
not be slow to spread the glad tidings of
great joy revealed in this day and age of the
world, and the children of the Latter-day
Saints have double reason to rejoice—and
yet how few comparatively, think of these
unmeasured blessings.
	A grand dinner and amusements are the
order of the day at Christmas time, all good
in their place when sweetened with gratitude.
	The family gatherings during the holidays
are happy occasions, and especially if devoted
to kindly converse, and the social enjoyment
that strengthens the ties of relationship, and
binds closer together the hearts and souls of
kindred and friends. One needs these way-
side rests on the toilsome journey of life,
and therefore one need be grateful for the
holiday time, if the work is not, or even if it
is harder, than at other times. For the

[Column 3]
mother it very often is, and yet she may have
recompense in the joy she gives to her
household and the comfort to her own
heart. And so one may say again with the
poet:

	“Bring in great logs and let them lie,
	To make a solid core of heat.
	Be cheerful-minded, talk and treat.”
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	“We keep the day with festal cheer.”

	In this day of coal and gas and electricity
one does not see so much the open fire of
great logs, or of pine knots, and sometimes
older people think half the pleasure is lost in
sitting in heated rooms unable to look at the
open fireplace, that always seemed so bright
and cheerful and has so many memories con-
nected with it, that are dear to the heart.
The poet of today will scarcely be able to
sing of the hearthstone round which the
family gather at eventide to chat and sing.
“Ring out the old, ring in the new,” is
applicable in many ways nowadays, but if
only the conditions change for the better, one
should not regret the innovations that are
made upon old-fashioned methods and ways
of living.
	May this be a happy Christmas, with peace
and goodwill and plenty for all—that the
hearts of the poor may be made glad, that
there may be no suffering for food or raiment
in this goodly land, and faith and confidence
may increase among the Saints, and may
that good fellowship which manifests itself in
deeds of benevolence abound and the charity
which is long-suffering and kind, and faith
and love grow stronger until each one can love
his neighbor as himself according to the words
of the blessed Savior whose birth men and
women profess to celebrate.


