FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION

	The U. W. P. C. was organized October
31, 1891, at the office of the Woman's
Exponent. A number of women writers
met together, as a result of letters which
had been sent to call a meeting.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was chosen temporary
chairman and Mrs. Julia I. McDonald
secretary pro tem. The permanent organ-
zation was effected, and Mrs. E. B. Wells
was elected President, Susa Y. Gates,
First Vice-President and L. Tula Greene
Richards Second Vice-President, Martha A.
Y. Greenhalgh, Vice-President-at-large,
Annie Wells Cannon Cor. Sec.; Josephine
Spencer, Asst. Cor. Sec.; Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
Rec. Sec.; Ruth M. Fox, Treasurer; Dr.
Romania B. Pratt, Auditor.
	The name, Utah Woman’s Press Club,
was adopted and the Chair appointed a
committee of three to prepare a constitution
and by-laws. Susa Young Gates of Provo,
Romania B. Pratt, Salt Lake, and Lucy A.
Clark Farmington were the committee.
	It was suggested that at the first meeting
to be held November 30, 1891, each mem-
ber contribute an original article or ad-
dress, or such a selected article as would
further the object for which the club was
organized, or be subject to a fine not to ex-
ceed twenty-five cents.
	The charter members were: E. B. Wells,
Susa Y. Gates, Romania B. Pratt, Ellis R.
Shipp, L. L. Greene Richards, Julia A.
McDonald, Lucy A. Clark and Ruth M. Fox:
	At the meeting held November 30,
Mrs. E. B. Wells made an address and three
original articles and three original poems
were read  They were, first, from the pen
of Susa Y. Gates, “The Local Literary
Field for Women.” A poem, “The
Mother Author,” Lula G. Richards. An
article on the “Suffrage Question” by
Sarah M. Kimball. Julia I. McDonald,
“The Poet’s Ideal Woman.” Ruth M.
Fox, an original poem, “Greeting,” and
Ellis R. Shipp, “Love Divine.”
	At the next meeting it was stated that
the object of the Club was purely literary,
and all foreign topics would be excluded.
	At this meeting, Miss N. V. Davis, who
afterwards contributed so largely to the
edification of the Club and charmed us
with her bright originality, was admitted
as a member, and is mentioned as telling a
very pleasing Christmas story and singing
the German Christmas hymn and a German
song.
	Miss Gladys Woodmansee is spoken of
as entertaining the Club with some fine
instrumental selections on the piano.
	At the third meeting, held January 30,
1892, Mrs. C. C. R. Wells is mentioned.


