AT CHRISTMAS TIME.
		SELECTED.
A moment since, as bell to answering bell
	In twelve clear notes spelt slowly Christmas
		Day,
I was alone. Then, whence I cannot tell,
	She came, calm-eyed and gowned in ashen gray
I watched her slender hand swing wide the door
	And saw her thread the intervening gloom;
The air she stirred upon its bosom bore
	A breath of indefinable perfume!
Then, standing there beneath the mistletoe.
	She beckoned me, and, rising at the sign,
I went, as lovers to their ladies go,
	And touched the lips of Memory with mine!
A shadow kiss it was, but in its train
	Thronged all subservient shadows of the years.
She whispered, and the past was mine again.
	In motley mantled of its smiles and tears;
Some magic phial she opened, and there rose
	Faint, airy arabesques of other times,
And age’s story through its solemn prose
	Rang with youth’s gaily interrippling rhymes!
While at the sluggish pulse of age there thrilled 
	A glow as of some unimagined wine,
The fire with half forgotten faces filled;—
	I touched the lips of Memory with mine!

Beneath another mistletoe than this,
	A little lad—with what pure lips, ah me!—
Pledged boyish troth, and in that eager kiss
	Life’s fingers first touched love’s minor key! 
I had forgotten how he used to stand,
	Slender and straight his little mates among,
Till Memory touched with her magician hand
	These blinded eyes of age and made them
		young!
But Spring, that knew no sorrow, with the flame
	Of faith’s white taper blazing on its shrine,
Vanished among the embers as it came:—
	I touched the lips of Memory with mine!

And then a man with steadfast eyes aglow
	With purpose and perception newly born,
Plighted man’s faith beneath the mistletoe,
	Such faith as falters not when it is sworn.
I knew him for the one that I had been


And that no spell can make me evermore,
Half way the rooms of love and life between,
	With eager hand upon the yieldingdoor.
So Summer on the fabric of my dream
	An instant in the embers seemed to shine,
Then faded in the fullness of its gleam:—
	I touched the lips of Memory with mine!

The vision changed. The mistletoe at last,
	Hung o’er the zenith of my phantom life;
Midst little crowding faces from the past,
	Stood one who smiled, and one who whispered
		“Wife!”
For thus I was and thus, alas, were they
	Whose eyes an instant laughed into my own:
But, as I leaned anear to bid them stay,
Grew dim, and so once more was I alone!
With childish voices echoant again,
	Ripe Autumn sped, like bubbles on her wine,
And, as the embers grayed and gloomed, in vain
	I sought the lips of Memory with mine!

A moment turned she, and, with clouded eyes,
	Sought mine across the ever deepening gloom,
And then as smoke against the darkness dies,
	I saw her pass in silence from the room.
Ah, fire of life, how swiftly then you downed
	To ashes of what was, and is no more;
As if that she, calm-eyed and ashen-gowned,
	Had been but shifting moonlight on the floor!
Old—old—and Winter, withered, wan and white,
	Had come to close the seasons’ laughing line;—
Yet, ere the embers died to dark, tonight
	I touched the lips of Memory with mine!
