[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Minutes of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly meeting,
held October 26, 1901, in the Fourteenth
Ward Hall, Counselor E. J. Stevenson
presiding.
	Opened by singing, “Glorious things
are sung of Zion.” Prayer by H. A.
Badger. Singing, “Now let us rejoice.”
Minutes read and approved.
	Counselor Stevenson read part of the
hymn, “Now let us rejoice,” and made re-
marks on the same. Urged all to live
according to the lessons taught therein.
Believed we would have faith enough to
keep the commandments of God if we live
for them. Let us live so that we can have
a claim upon the Lord. Spoke of the faith
of Sister Zina D. H Young. Bore a testi-
mony of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said Satan has
great power, thought we should throw safe-
guards around our young people. Loved
those who serve the Lord. Though it
might make some jealousy, felt to sustain
the authorities Felt we had prophetesses
among us. and she had been healed by
them.
	Sister Brown said we come to meeting to
get food for the soul. Was thankful she
knew where to go to get comfort for her
soul, and was thankful for the love that
exists among the sisters.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon felt we ought to
lift up our hearts for one another that the
speakers may be inspired of the Lord to
give us those things that may increase our
faith and love for one another. Cautioned
all to guard their tongues against injuring
one another. Said she had visited the
Relief Society in Kansas and also visited
Nauvoo. Spoke of the good the Relief.
Society are doing there, and how they are
appreciated by the missionaries. Felt we
should comfort each other; love and kind-
ness is the duty of every one. Draw our
children to us, and let us try to improve in
doing good every day. Let those around
us see exemplary women in us.
	Sister Brazier bore a testimony of the
Gospel and Joseph Smith.
	Sister Keddington bore a testimony and
thanked the Lord for the truth.
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn,
assisted by the congregation, and also bore
her testimony.
	Sister Webb felt we should be thankful
for the blessing the Gospel brings us. We
must labor for these blessings or we cannot
get them, our example goes farther than
anything else. How thankful we ought to
be that we know we have a Father in
heaven who hears and answers our prayers.
Spoke of Temple work, and said remember
our covenants and be faithful to them.
	Sister Mary L. Morris felt to bless the
sisters.
	Sister F. Smith said it was fifty years since
she joined the Church. She was the first
of her family, but there were two hundred
belonging now. She had been a counselor
in Relief Society work thirty years.
	Congregation sang “How firm a found-
ation.”
	Sister Harvey felt the Spirit of God was
present. Knew this was the true Church
of God, realized the work was progressing.
	Sister J. S. Woolley spoke of the quali-
fications of a mother.
	Sister Harvey spoke of President A. H.
Lund as being loved in his own home,
Ephraim.
	Sister Phelps said we do not comprehend

[Column 2]
our blessings. We are like children. It is
plain to see these are the last days and the
Lord is preparing His children to receive
Him. Said much will be performed before
that day.
	Sister Wright did not know where to
begin to thank the Lord for her blessings.
Spoke of the love she had for Brother
Lund. Knew the Lord inspired His ser-
vants.
	Sister Irvine spoke of the great work
being done by the Y. L. M. I. A., referred
to Brother Grant’s work in Japan, and of
his daughter Lucy being called to Colorado
on a mission. Thought we as mothers
were responsible for our children’s charact-
ers. Let us speak of the good in one
another, never allow slander in our pres-
ence.
	Sister H. A. Badger felt to thank the
Lord for her blessings. Was strengthened
by attending her meetings; felt we should
visit the aged.
	Sister Stevenson said President Kimball
said time would be so shortened it would
not be half long enough in the last days.
Admonished the mothers to be watchful of
their children, mothers do not appreciate
their mission in having the sons and
daughters of God. Influence by example
and read Sec 27, Doctrine and Covenants.
Said it was promised the Saints in Big
Horn county that if in each home they
would sing a hymn, read a chapter and
offer prayer each day their children would
never go astray.
	Adjourned for four weeks. Singing,
Doxology. Benediction, Sister Mary P.
Silver.
