EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We are proud to acknowledge and with
gratitude, the gift of a new book just from
the press, “Rhymlets In Many Moods,” by
one of our Utah poets. Brother H. W.
Naisbitt, who only recently returned from a
mission. Brother Naisbitt has been well
known to the people here as one of our very
best writers, and we sincerely congratulate
him on the appearance of his book just at
Xmas time, hoping for him a financial suc-
cess. “The Home Circle Series” he has
designated as a sub title should give it pres-
tige with our home lovers, and we trust the
book will find its way into every home-circle
in Utah. We have not yet had time to
examine its contents but will give an opinion
upon the subject later. Meantime we can
conscientiously recommend it knowing as
we do the ability of the author and his
sterling qualities of mind and heart.
	The Daughters of the Revolution cele-
brated the anniversary of the Boston tea
party at the home of Mrs. W. J. Beatie,
whose parlors were handsomely decorated
for the occasion. A fine engraving of Gen.
Washington occupied a conspicuous place,
draped with the stars and stripes. Mrs. 
Clarissa S. Williams, the Regent, was present
again after her serious illness and presided
with her usual dignity. Some business was
attended to and Mrs. Mary A. H. Cannon’s
paper was read, the subject being the close
of the war and some of the men who
were most famous in establishing the new
government, and brief mention of the great
American Tea Party and the visits of mem-
bers to the old South Church, etc. Refresh-
ments were Dutch and the china used also
the old Dutch ware. A very large and
handsomely ornamented fruit cake was given
by Mrs. Eliza Titcomb and was cut and
served to the guests, also candies after the
substantial Dutch repast.	It was one of the
most pleasant afternoons the society has en-
joyed. Two distinguished guests were pres-
ent by invitation, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith
and Mrs. Sarah Jenne Canoon.


Chauncey M. Depew gives the women
credit for a large share in the defeat of
Tammany.


