[Column 1]
EMMA LUCY GATES.
	The good and noble women who read
this precious little messenger the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT, are no doubt interested in the
little girl who has pleased people in Utah
so much in the last month by her singing
	The mothers in Israel would not ask
what can she sing, who was her teacher,
nor what is to be her future professional
career? but they would gather about her
and inquire, “My dear, do you say your
prayers? Are you trying to live your
religion?”
	Little Lulu, as she is familiarly called
by those who love her, was born in St.
George in 1880, being the oldest child of
Jacob F. and Susa Young Gates.  Her
grandfather on her father’s side, Elder
Jacob Gates, is an historical figure in early
Church history. He was one of the old
Puritan stock, and was of Zion’s camp,
and was a trusted friend of the Prophet
Joseph, and later the Prophet Brigham
He was since president for some years of
the first seven Presidents of Seventies, and
filled many important public trusts. He
was a good singer and when he was eighty
years old his clear old voice made sweet
music out of “Mrs Lofty had a carriage,
none had I.” His third wife, Emma
Farsberry, is a sweet little English
woman of good breeding, and she, too, was an
excellent singer, and sang in the “Leicester
Choir,” and she is, too, like her husband,
a faithful Latter-day Saint. On the
maternal side President Brigham Young is
the grandparent, and his wife, Lucy
Bigelow Young, is one of the greatest and
humblest women who ever tabernacled in
the flesh.
	Lulu, then, had her full right in being
well born Her father was a born musician
who played as a boy, everything from a
Jew’s harp to a drum. He organized a
boys’ band when he was ten years old, he
playing the lead cornet. No place on earth
has so much native musical talent as Utah,
and it is only opportunity which is lacking
to bring out this wealth of talent. Lucy’s
mother inherited the musical gifts belong-
ing to the Young family, and could play
the piano as soon as she could read. She
was the founder of the Musical De-
partment in the Brigham Young Ac-
ademy in 1878; but with other cares,
like many young mothers, she dropped her
active musical work.
	The little girl came to Provo with her
parents in 1882 and in 1885 went to the
Sandwich Islands on a four years’ mission
with them.
	When Lulu was three months old, Sisters
Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. H. Young
paid a visit to St. George and while there
they gave the babe a beautiful blessing.
This was treasured by the mother and re-
peated to the child as she grew in years
and understanding.
	When on the Sandwich Islands mission,
a deep and abiding friendship was formed
between President Joseph F Smith and
wife, Julina, and the family of Brother
Jacob F. Gates. After the sudden death of
Lulu’s two brothers on this mission, Lulu
seemed stricken with the same disease; all
night long President Smith and the parents
hung over the little girl administering and
giving her what simple remedies were
obtainable. And all night long as these
strong men would falter in their faith, and
ask each other with eye or lip, “Must she,
too, go?” the child would look up with

[Column 2]
firm conviction and say, “I’m not going to
die, papa; don’t you remember Aunt Eliza
Snow promised me I should grow up and
be a mother in Israel?” And her faith pre-
vailed.
	She has always been musical; at two
years old she sang many little songs and
soon found the piano keys to match the
time. At four she had found the chords
for every key on the piano. She was taken
to the Sandwich Islands at this age and
there picked up guitar playing. She sang,
played and danced for Queen Kapiolani,
when that lady visited Laie and her par-
ents were invited to bring her to the
Palace. But they felt then and after to
shrink from pushing the child into public
notice, both for her sake and their own.
Children are ruined too often, mentally
and physically, by over-stimulation
	Many people wonder today how it is
that this girl has sprung into such sudden
public notice; it is because her wise parents
knew that maturity is the only safe time to
throw genius out into public life. They
knew she was gifted, and she and they
have made many sacrifices to develop
those gifts. Admiration is hard enough to
bear when the character is fully formed.
	With this thought fully in mind, the
little girl was kept quietly at home, and
most carefully taught the art of dress-
making and housekeeping. She is as
gifted with the needle and with the cook-
stove as she is with voice or piano keys.
	Above all things her parents have
struggled to teach her and all their children
to love the Gospel and its every principle;
not one principle, whether it be in active
practice or not, has been neglected in her
training. True, she has some faults,
which even the best of our girls must
inherit, but she loves the Lord and tries to
serve Him.
	When her married sister, Mrs. Leah E.
Widtsoe went to Germany in 1897, she
begged the parents to allow Lulu to
accompany her that she might carry for-
ward her musical education. Lulu had
good music teachers. Her first teacher,
and she was a most excellent one, was a
Provo Mormon girl, Mrs. Lillie Roberts
De Lorey. A sound musical foundation
was thus laid, and while under Mrs. De
Lorey, at thirteen years of age, Lulu took
the prize for instrumental music in the
first great Salt Lake Eisteddfod in 1893.
Her next teacher was Professor J. J.
McClellan, who was likewise a most
superior teacher and musician. It was
from him that she went away to Germany
with Brother and Sister Widstoe.
	She could always sing, too, she sang the
scale before she was two years old; but she
was not encouraged to tax her voice, as
she was a frail child and health and poise
were the objects sought for by her parents
for this nervous and high-strung child of
theirs. She was kept away from giddy
pleasures, and early hours and long sleeps
were the rule. No corset was ever upon
her form, and no tea nor coffee were ever
used in the house.
	In all their plans none thought of public
life for this little Mormon girl. To culti-
vate her talents, and then to use them at
home to comfort and delight her people,
these were the ambitions and aims of all.
	After she had been in Europe for one
year it became necessary for her to leave
her sister, who was about to travel. What
could be done?


In this crisis her grandmother, Lucy B.
Young, whose generous financial assistance
had made it possible for the girl to go in
the first place, offered to go over and stay
as long as was necessary.
	Sister Young went with the famous party
of women who attended the International
Council of Women in London, and here
Lulu came from Germany to greet both
her grandmother and her mother and
cousin, D. H. Y. McAllister. The Council
was a wonderful episode to all.
	After it was over Lulu and her mother
and her grandmother went to Berlin and
here Lulu was soon established in the
Royal Conservatory of Music.
	The girl always maintained that her
voice was her forte and not the piano, and
at last it was decided that she should
center her studies upon the voice.
	Before leaving Utah President George
Q. Cannon had given her a blessing in
which he promised her that she should
attain perfection in her art, and that her
teachers should indeed think she was gifted
of God.” How wonderfully that promise was
fulfilled, no one can tell so well as Lulu
herself.
	She was shown every kindness and
attention.  She was crowded ahead and
invited to join the King’s own choir; and
while with them she sang in the palace be-
fore the Kaiser and all the assembled
court.  No attention was lacking, yet the
girl felt that the German method of teach-
ing vocal music was ruining her soft and
sweet yet not heavy voice. So after [-]ast-
ing and prayer, her grandmother and she
decided that it would be best to leave the
school and her kind teacher who had been
so gracious to her.  It was a trial, for her
teacher never again acknowledged her.  But
she left.
	By the leading of a kind Providence she
was taken to the finest teacher in Berlin,
Mme. Blanche Corelli, a daughter of
Hermann, the Austrian predestigatuer,
and a famous Austrian Court singer, Rosa
Chiclloc.  This teacher soon developed an
ardent love for the girl, and devoted her-
self to her progress.  Surely her blessing
was fulfilled.  Lulu and her teacher worked
hard, so hard, but the reward was sweet.
For God did add his blessing.
	Lulu tells a dream which she had while
away, struggling, toiling, and knowing no
pleasure, but work, work.  Someday
may be she will write it for the EXPONENT.
What she would have done without her
dear, wise grandmother’s help and presence
no one can tell!
	She has come home at the bidding of her
parents as any good girl would.  And she
is now about to start out on a concert tour
for three months under the most famous
manager on earth, Major J. B. Pond.  But
her mother goes with her and so does the
counsel and blessing of President Joseph
F. Smith with all others interested.  She
does not go to win fame or money; yet she
may have both. But all the future as well
as the past is with that kind Father who
has sent her here to do a certain work as
He has sent all of us.
	Dear sisters, she will need your faith
and prayers and so will her anxious
mother; will you give them without money,
without price?
