[Column 1]
EMMA HALE SMITH.
	Among the great and noble minded women
who have been connected with our Church is
Emma Smith, first wife of the Prophet
Joseph Smith.
	She was born near the year 1803, in
Susquehanna Co., Penn. She grew up to
be a good, virtuous, high-minded girl.
When but a young woman, she met the
Prophet, who, in 1825, while he was
working for a man by the name of Stoal,
came to board with her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Isaac Hale. The Prophet and this
very worthy young woman became very
much attached to each other, and Mr. Hale
was asked to give his consent to their mar-
riage, but he objected to their union be-
cause he was prosperous while the Smith
family had lost all their property.
	Sister Emma was tall and stately, and
was what might be termed a magnificent
looking woman. It was during the last
year of Joseph’s waiting for the plates be-
fore he and Emma were married. They
were married January, 18, 1827, by Squire
Tarbill, at that gentleman’s residence,
South Bainbridge, New York.
	Immediately after their marriage Joseph
left the employ of Mr. Stoal and returned
to his parent’s home at Manchester, New
York State, taking with him a beautiful
bride. During the succeeding summer he
worked to obtain means for his family and
his great mission, for it was near the time
for the promise which had been made to
him to be fulfilled.
	It was on September 22, 1827, that
Joseph Smith received the plates at the
“Hill Cumorah,” from the angel Moroni.
The angel was at his side and bade him
stretch forth his hand and take these
precious records from their long hiding
place. As he lifted them to the surface he
was thrilled with divine joy. The angel
after giving him instructions left him.
	Persecutions were now heaped upon him,
men were lurking by his pathway to take
his life and obtain the plates. Their
plans were always thwarted, but the peace
and quiet that was needed to perform the
labor of translating the plates was kept
from him, so he decided to go to the home
of Emma’s parents in Pennsylvania, where
he might perform his heaven-appointed
work.
	While at the home of her parents in the
month of July, 1828, a son was born to
them, but the babe died after a brief time,
leaving the mother at death’s door. Four
sons were afterwards born to them, their
names being Joseph, Frederick, Alexander
and David, Julia being an adopted
daughter.
	At this the Prophet was compelled to
give his time up to toil for the needs of his
household, and he went forth to labor,
humbly and uncomplainingly. As his
manual labor was ended each day he would
devote his evenings to the work of trans-
lating, his young wife aiding him by writ-
ing at his dictation.
	In July, 1830, in Susquehanna Co.,
Penn., the Lord gave Emma a revelation
through the Prophet. It is recorded in the
Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 25, and in
accordance with this revelation she com-
piled the first Latter-day Saints hymn
book.
	When the Prophet obeyed the principle
of plural marriage, Emma gave her hus-
band four wives. The four women lived

[Column 2]
in the Mansion House at Nauvoo with
Emma.
	May 6, 1842, an attempt was made to
assassinate L. W. Boggs, Governor of
Missouri. Orrin P. Rockwell and Joseph
Smith were charged with the crime and
arrested, but were afterwards given their
liberty. The Prophet was now hiding
from his enemies and Emma had declared
her willingness to share her husband’s
exile As this plan of exile was abandoned
she offered to visit Governor Carlin, of Ill.,
and lay before him Joseph’s case. In
answer to this proposition the Prophet
wrote to her telling her not to go to the
Governor as he was no friend to the Saints,
but she might write to him. With this
permission to write Emma addressed a
dignified communication to the Governor,
in which she called upon him by virtue of
his position as an officer, and by every
sense of manliness to spare Joseph and
the Saints in Nauvoo from unjust persecu-
tion This letter alone is sufficient to
demonstrate that Emma was a woman of
superior ability and that she had an exal-
ted appreciation and love for her husband.
	Sister Emma Smith was a good, kind,
loving woman, and respected her husband.
She was very kind to the Saints, always
trying to comfort the sick and afflicted, and
clothe the poor.
	Sister Emma’s home was indeed a home
at all times for the unfortunate Saints.
	Although the Prophet Joseph obeyed the
commandment of the Lord in regard to
plural marriage and took a number of
wives after his first love, Emma, he still
loved her with an undying love, as is
shown in the following speech when one of
his wives spoke to him in a complaining
manner of Emma. The Prophet turned to
her and said “If you desire my love you
must never speak evil of Emma.”
	After the death of Joseph Smith the
Prophet, Emma married a Mr. Bidamon
and died in Nauvoo, Ill., April 30, 1879.
