HOME AFFAIRS.
	THE Ladies' Conference of this Stake of Zion
was held in this city, June 17th and 18th.  Full
particulars will be published in our next issue.
	THE machinery for weaving silk, ordered from
Patterson, New Jersey, by the Utah Silk Asso-
ciation, has arrived in Provo.
	PROF. J. G. Lemmon and wife from California
Academy of science have been spending a few
days about the country looking up Utah plants,
at the same time getting a few items about the
Mormons.
	SISTER M. Isabella Horne and her daughter
Miss Mattie Horne started for Bear Lake Valley
Monday morning June the 27, to visit friends in
that vicinity, and do a little missionary work
among the Societies in that locality.
	SISTERS E. R. Snow Smith, Zina D. H.
Young, Ellen C. S. Clawson and Louie Felt,
went to Sugar House Ward on Wednesday June
19th to attend a special meeting called by the
Bishop, for the purpose of organizing a Primary
Association in the Ward.
	THE sudden death of Mrs. Fanny Decher Lit-
tle, wife of Mayor Little, of this city, has cast
a gloom over many besides the bereaved house-
hold.  She was a most devoted mother and af-
fectionate wife.  She will be deeply and sincere-
ly mourned by a host of true friends.
	WE have had the pleasure to meet of late
some very interesting people, who have been
visiting this city, seeing the sights and making 
the acquaintance of a few Mormons. Among
them the sister and daughter of the famous
Julia Ward Howe, of Boston, Mass.  Mrs. Annie
W. Milliard, of San Rafael and her neice Miss
Maud Howe, of Boston;  the young lady accom-
panied her mother in her travels on the conti-
nent of Europe and in the holy land, and to all
appearance adapts herself well to the life of a
tourist. She was on her way to California to
spend a few weeks with her aunt at her home in
the West.


WE acknowledge with thanks the invitation
received from Washington to attend the meet-
ing of the Social Science Association, at the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Spencer, in that
city, June 25th, and regret that circumstances
prevented our being present on that occasion,
but heartily wish the ladies and all engaged in
the work "God speed."
	JUDGE Daniel Tyler of Beaver has been in the
city a few days, making arrangements for the
publication of the History of the Mormon Bat-
talion, wkich he has for some time been occupied
in preparing for the press.  It is to be published
at the office of the Juvenile Instructor.  Due
notice will be given of the time of its being is-
sued.
	SESTERS Sarah M. Kimball and Sarepta M.
Heywood recently made a short visit to the
Southern Settlements in Juab and a part of San-
pete Co.  They met with the Relief Society and
Primary Association in several places. They
report crops looking well, people prosper-
ous and a good spirit pervailing among the
Saints; the thrift and industry being something
wonderful.
	ON the 24th, in company with S. M. Kimball
and M. I. Horne we went to Mill Creek to at-
tend an annual meeting of the Primary Associa-
tions of the four districts.  Mrs. E. C. S. Claw-
son and Camilla Cobb also attended.  There
were two sessions, forenoon and afternoon.  In-
teresting exercises by the children and speeches
by the ladies.  These Associations were organ-
ized just one year ago and they show a marked
improvement already.
	FRIDAY morning June 25 we had the pleasure of
being called upon by three gentlemen who came
direct from Paris the Comte de Eurgot, Charles
Boggio and F. Osorio.  The last named is a native
of Madrid Spain and Secretary of the Spanish
Legatin at Paris.  They expressed themselves
much pleased with the city and the mountain
scenery, said it reminded them of Heidleberg
Germany.  They have started on a trip around
the world.  We wish them a safe and pleasant 
journey.
	SISTERS Eliza R. S. Smith and Zina D. H.
Young returned Saturday evening June 25th
from their visit to Brigham City and Malad
Valley.  They were absent about 13 days, at-
tended the Conference of R.S. Y.L.M.I.A.,
and P. A., of Box Elder Stake held in Brigham
City, and afterwards held meetings in adjacent
settlements, and them went on to Malad valley
holding meetings and giving good counsel and
instruction, wherever they traveled among the
people.
	IT is exceedingly painful to record the acci-
dental death of our dear friend, Mrs. Josephine
Schettler, which occurred June 19th, caused by
being strangled in the salt water at the Lake,
before any one could render her assistance.  We
deeply sympathize with her lonely and bereaved
companion, and her beloved mother, from whom
the light of day has been shut out so many
years, her husband also being an invalid and
greatly dependant upon his wife, needs the
comfort and consolation of the Holy Spirit to
bear him up under this severe affliction.
"Whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth, and
scourgeth every soul whom He receiveth."  
	ON Thursday, the 7th inst., a grand benefit
entertainment is to be given, in the 21st Ward
Meeting House, to the widow and children of
the late Wm. E. Knight, who was accidentally
killed in E. Brain's brickyard in this city, on
Saturday, June 25th, 1881.  The programme
will consist of songs, recitations, etc., concluding
with the laughable force of "The Omnibus."
Prof. Jos. J. Daynes has kindly consented to pre-
side at the organ.  Sister Knight, with her hus-
band and family recently came from New Zea-
land to this city, having emigrated with a small
company of Saints under the direction of Elder
George Batt, who arrived in this city about six
weeks ago.  The enterprise is a laudable one, and
we hope the entertainment will be well patron-
ized.
	A METEOR.--On Tuesday evening, June 28th, 
about 9.30, as a lady was watching the comet,
which is now attracting public attention, she
was surprised at seeing her shadow vividly pro-
jected on the ground, and supposing some person
had come up with a lantern, turned quickly and
to her amazement saw a magnificent meteor
flashing across the western hemisphere.  It re-
sembled a globe of fire and passed from north to
southwest, describing an arc of a circle just be-
neath Ursa Major.  The meteor was visible
about three seconds and a half, and divided just
before it disappeared into three distinct portions.
Two magnificent falling stars accompanied the
phenomenon.


