			CONTINUED. 

	Ever since the return of Sister Elize from
her travels abroad she has been doing home
missionary work among the Latter-day Saints.
By Pres. Young's connsel she has assisted the
Bishops in organizing Relief Societies in var-
ious towns and villages in the different Stakes
of Zion.  She has herself organized most of the
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions.  As an organizer she has wonderful
ability. Her keen eye and quick perception
are a great benefit to her in this respect and
she knows just what is wanted and can decide
and execute well this sort of work.
 Sister Eliza has continued to write for the
press and  public although her labors have
been very arduous, and on public occasions she
is expected to contribute a poetica effusion.
For the 24th, of July 1875 she wrote "A Jub-
ilee Poem," from which we make a brief ex-
tract.
	"This day on history's page will live
	With honor's purest diadem, adorned
	With life's chaste gems of beauty and of youth,
	We now embellish it.
			This is the day
	On which the Pioneers of Utah first,
	Not yet three decades since, with thankful hearts
	Entered this vale.
		Twas dry and desolate-
	But they had come, searching their way across
	The trackless desertplains, to find a home
	For persecuted Saints; and here they found
	A parched and sterile waste- the hertiage
	Of crickets, and the Indian's stamping ground;
	Which none but those who fully trusted in
	The living, speaking God of Abraham,
	Would have essayed, or struggled to redeem.

	God will establish in these mountain vales,
	The Kingdom Daniel saw in visionn, which
	He likened to a "little stone," that rolled
	Down from the montain- growing, moving on,
	Until it filled the earth.

		A portion of
	The elements are here before us, in
	This blooming choir- this mammoth Jubilee.
	Where youth and childhood- pure and innocent
	As vestal offerings and beautiful
	As ideality's brigh pencilings,
	Unite their voices in Jahovah's praise."
This is only an item from the Poem and
scarcely coveys an idea of its beauty or
strength. Our readers will find it in full on the
144th page of "Poems by Eliza R. Snow," Vol-
ume 11.  Sister Eliza is the recognized leader
of the women of the Latter-day Saints and per-
sided over all the largest gatherings of women
for any particular purpose that special occasions
demand.  When the women of Utah have
memorialized Congress with mammoth peti-
tions signed by 27000 women citizens, she has
been the leading spirit and an active worker
in preparing and forwarding.  In all that con-
cerns the good of Israel wherever woman's 
help is needed she is first and foremost.
	Her mind is very contemplative and she has
written much upon subjects requiring depth of
thought and pertaining to a higher life. From 
one of her poems entitled Immortality we
quote a few stanzas.
	Yes immortality; That bosom word
	To me has inspiration in it.

	But thanks to God there is an end decreed
	To human sorrow; pain and misery.
	I aim- I live for immortality,
	Life, knowledge, bliss without one stopping point.

	A thought that I should ever cease to be
	Would paralyze all other, thoughts'twould dim
	The brightest beams of joy, and would crush out
	Each holy aspiration of the heart-
	Eradicate that precious organ; hope-
	Embargo enterprize, and dry up all
	The tributary streams of happiness.

	There's nothing short of Immortality,
	Can satisfy the earnest cravings of
	That spark of pure divinity, which God
	Implanted as the fine constitutuent part
	Of beings organized with attributes
	Like His- the germ of an eternal life.

	Crown of all wisdom, sum of good to man,
	Scheme of the God's, redemption's glorious plan;
	This, through the resurrection's power combines.
	Immortal bodies and immortal minds.

 On the 27th of July after Sister Eliza re-
turned from her travels abroad, only having
arrived on the 15th in S. L. City, she went to
Brigham City where she was greeted with the
greatest enthusiam.  The people turned out in
crowds to meet her and the word WELCOME in
flowers was arranged over the gateways.  She
held meetings in several towns in Box Elder
Co., returning home after about ten days spent
among the people, meeting with the Societies,
organizing and reorganizing.  After returning
from there she visited other parts of the Terri-
tory in the interests of Relief Societies and Y.
L. M. I. A.
 Shortly after she began compiling some of
her poems, preparatory to publishing her sec-
ond volume.  And as soon as that was com-
pleted she began gathering the letters written
by the brethren and herself while traveling,
ready for publication.  This book she also
compiled carefully for the press.  It is called
"The Correspondence of the Palestine Tour-
ists," and is not only methodically arranged
but all the letters are written in a very clever
style, and better still they are true to facts in
every particular.  Those who are acqnainted
with this class of work will realize that Sister
Eliza had wonderful executive ability to do
this kind of labor while, we might say almost
constantly attending meetings where she was
always expected to speak, if she did not preside-
and very often did both.  Not only that, but 
was visiting through the country from time to
time, as circumstances and the needs of the
Societies developed.  She has a true motherly
charge over all the organizations, and watches
their movements and progress closely. We
had almost forgotten to mention that the lady
also resumed her duties as Priestess in the
House of the Lord immediately after her return
from abroad.  There are perhaps few women in
teh world who at the age of seventy and over
could accomplish so much work in so many dif-
fereut directions.  Sister Eliza is not only lit-
erary but domestic in her tastes, and while do-
ing public duty has performed her own house-
hold labors, which has no doubt been beneficial,
and prolonged her life, she has also been a good
walker, seldom riding unless the distance was
considerable, and very frequently when in the
country prefering to ride in a lumber wagon,
considering it conductive to health. Occupied
constantly in doing good, comforting the bowed
down, administering to the sick and distressed,
she has realized the full import of the Scripture
"In blessing ye are blessed.
	[To be Continued.]


