[COLUMN 2]				
the French Assembly, but there was a larger
attendance. Sister Eliza says the gallery was
crowded with ladies and gentlemen. She great-
ly admired the dress of the Prussian ladies,
and thought they exhibited the most womanly
good sense in their style of dress of any na-
tionality she had seen in her travels, and adds:
“Inasmuch as dress is acknowledged to be a
legitimate index to the mind, I feel authorized
to pronounce in favor of these German ladies.”
	From Berlin to Hamburg, the great com-
mercial centre—Sister Eliza greatly admired
the Hamburg soldiers; but the lady refers to
the continent of Europe as “a land of soldiers,"
and says while the Latter-day Saints are la-
boring to establish a kingdom of peace, the
sword is the watchword among the nations of
the earth. On the evening of May 16, 1873,
the party took steamer from Hamburg to Lon-
don. After arriving there. Sister Eliza attend-
ed the Conference with the Saints in the Grand
Amphitheatre, Holborn, May 25, and left for
Liverpool May 27, and on the 28th embarked
on board the steamer Wisconsin.
	Writing while out at sea, Sister Eliza pours
forth in verse some of those deep emotions that
swell up in the human soul, and to which poe-
try perhaps gives the most perfect expression:

		We’ve sailed on many an ocean,
		And entered many a port.
		Viewed many a Princely Palace,
		And	many a Lordly Court.

		Seen many Mosques and Churches,
		And witnessed service there;
		And how unlike the Gospel
		Their modes of worship are

		By undisputed tokens
		His favored people know
		That God again has spoken
		From hearen to man below.

		And that the glorious Gospel
		Meets every mortal need;
		While truth eternal triumphs
		O’er every human creed.

	Sister Eliza remained a short time visiting
relatives in the Eastern States; found one bro-
ther she had not met for more than twenty
years, not since he was a mere boy. The lady
speaks most feelingly of visiting the scenes of
her childhood, and of the wonderful changes
time had made during a period of thirty-seven
years. “Many had gone the way of all earth,”
bat those who remained welcomed her with
“affectionate cordiality.” Indeed, Sister Eliza
says that through the counties of Portage,
Geauga, Cuyahoga and Loraine in Ohio, it
was one continued ovation. This is proof posi-
tive of the high esteem and honor in which
herself and Apostle Lorenzo Snow were held,
after all these long years of absence, they
were not forgotten. In writing of this, Sister
Eliza says:
		Our former loved associates
		Have mostly passed away,
		While those we knew as children
		Are crowned with locks of gray

		We saw Times' varied traces
		Were deep on every hand;
		Indeed, upon the people
		More mark'd than on the land
[COLUMN 3]
		And thus as in a mirror's
		Reflection, we were told
		With stereotyp'd impressions,
		The fact of growing old.

	Sister Eliza and her Brother, Lorenzo Snow,
succeeded in gathering many genealogies of
both the living and the dead of their relatives.
	Their return home was quiet and unpreten-
tious, as the following from the EXPONENT of
July I5, 1873, will show:
	“So carefully and silently was the closing
portion of the return trip of Eliza R. Snow
concluded, that not until Thursday, the fourth
day after her arrival, when the return of her
brother, President Lorenzo Snow, to Brigham
City, was noticed in the daily papers was it
suspected by many of her friends that she was
again safe at her home in this city, which she
reached on the evening of Sunday, the 6th
inst.” 
	Immediately after her return, she resumed
her labors among the people. In the EXPO-
NENT, August 1, she published a “Salutation
to the Ladies of Utah," expressing her joy and
gratitude at being once more at home in Zion,
and the thankfulnes and pride she felt while
absent that her home was in the valleys of the
Rocky Mountains. Referred to the absurdi-
ties existing abroad in regard to the down-trod-
den women of Utah, which she had invariably
opposed with the fact that nowhere on earth
had woman such large responsibilities and
powerful influence. The "Salutation" was time-
ly and appropriate, and was addressed to all as
an expression of her good feeling and sisterly
love.
	Shortly after her return, on the 17th of Au-
gust, she addressed a very large assembly of
ladies in the Ogden Tabernacle, also about the
same time in Provo; traveled through Cache
Valley in the month of September, visiiting
societies, holding meetings, giving instruction
and doing woman’s missionary work wherever
she went. Her labors have been abundantly
blest, and wherever she has traveled she has
sown the seeds of love, union, kindness and hu-
mility, and they are springing up and bearing
much rich fruit in the hearts and lives of the
women and children throughout the valleys of
the mountains.


