HONOR TO THE SILVER GREYS.
				------
	The annual excursion for the old folks of this
city and vicinity took place June 22d, the 88th
anniversary of the birth of Presiding Bishop
Edward Hunter.  The place of destination was
Farr's Grove, Ogden City, distant by train forty
miles, and about three miles' ride from the de-
pot.  The old people were "as happy as happy
could be," meeting each other and exchanging
friendly greetings; many of them were over the
age of three score and ten.  A careful commit-
tee had arranged everything for the comfort and
enjoyment of the party.  Presidents John Tay-
lor, George Q. Cannon and Wilford Woodruff,
also Bishops Edward Hunter and L. W. Hardy,
of the Church authorities, were with the party,
and participated in the enjoyments of the day.
There were thirteen cars well filled.  Two ladies
and two gentlemen of the company were over
ninety, and fifty were over eighty years old.  
The whole company, it is said, numbered six
hundred and fifty persons.
	Each person over ninety received a silver
medal with a ribbon attached, and when the 
gifts were presented, they wept for joy like chil-
dren.  Refreshments were handed through all
the cars on the way, and a special choir sang
suitable songs, making sweet melody, which was
and excellent treat for all.
	The good people of Ogden City had prepared
carriages and wagons to convey all from the de-
pot to the grove, where tables were spread and
ample provision made to make them comfortable
for the day.  Apostle F.D. Richards, President
D. H. Peery and other local authorities of We-
ber County, also Hon. Lorin Farr, were present
doing all in their power to entertain their guests.
	After partaking of refreshments, the
company assembled for the exercises, where a
large platform and benches had been arranged to 
seat the people.  The choir sang the anthem,
"Come, let us go up to the mountain of the
Lord," composed by Bro. E. Stevens, of Willard,
a young man of considerable musical and poeti-
cal genius.
	Prest. Woodruff offered prayer, music by the
Ogden brass band, a speech of welcome from
Weber County by President Peery, in which he
referred to the great honor paid to Bishop Hun-
ter.  "Few men lived, " said he, "who could ob-
tain such respect as was paid now to this veteran,
born in 1793, who had lived in the days of Wash-
ington."  Bishop Hunter followed in an elo-
quent speech, relating some of the pleasant reminis-
cences of the past, and congratulating himself
upon being associated with the Saints in these
mountain vales.  Spoke feelingly of the glorious
Constitution of our country and the Declaration
of Independence, and told the people he enlisted
as a volunteer as soon as he was old enough, and
served faithfully seven years, receiving an hon-
orable discharge, which he had still preserved.
He had always been imbued with the spirit of a
patriot, but after joining this Church and gather-
ing to Nauvoo he was accused of treason, al-
though he had broken no law or given any cause
for the accusation, etc., etc.
	Supt. Monch, in behalf of the Sunday Schools
of Ogden then presented, with a pleasing
speech, a testimonial to Bishop Hunter, as a
token of their appreciation of his useful life and
labors.  It was a large memento, handsomely
framed, containing the portraits, appropriately
arranged, of Presidents Joseph Smith, Brigham
Yonng, John Taylor, and of the aged Bishop.
At the top of either corner are the book of Mor-
mon and Doctrine and Covenants.
	The whole, with the exception of the photo-
graphs, is elegantly executed with the pen by
Prof. A. J. Phelps.  
	Below are the following words, and the poem
we have published on the first page:
	"Testimonial to Bishop Edward Huntr, pre-
sented in behalf of the Sunday Schools of Og-
den City, on the 22nd of June, 1881, being the
88th anniversary of his birthday, when he visit-
ed Ogden with the Old Folks' Excursion.  This
presentation is tendered as a token of affection
and esteem, in which the faithful veteran, to
whom it is made, is held by the donors. The
world at large hold up the lives of their great
men, that the young may follow theri illustrious
footsteps.  The Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints can proudly do the same, furnish-
ing some of the brightest examples that grace
the pages of history.  Among the individualities
that will be thus presented, Bishop Hunter will
always find a prominent place.  His purity and
simplicity of character and untarnished integri-
ty should be never failing objects of emulation
by the youth of Israel.  May the God of our
fathers bless him forever."
	President Taylor made a short pithy speech,
speaking in terms of great reverence of the
Bishop and his faithfulness and integrity, and
closed by blessing the whole congregation.  Pre-
sents of different kinds were distributed to the
oldest people present and those from different
localities, consisting of parasols, canes, dress pat-
terns, packages of tea and coffee, and a variety
of useful things.
	Elder George Goddard, in behalf of the com-
mittee, tendered thanks to the people of Ogden,
and prayed that God might bless them a hun-
dred fold.  Hoped to acknowledge their kindness
by inviting them all next year to enjoy them-
selves at Mill Farm Park, in Salt Lake City.
Choir sang "Auld Lang Syne," and benediction
was pronounced by President George Q. Cannon.
	The party returned home in safety, feeling re-
freshed and strengthened in body and mind.


