PRIMARY OF OGDEN.

	On Saturday June 11th was the Conference
of Primary Associations, at which Prest. Joseph
F. Smith was present, by request of the chil-
dren of Ogden. The meeting was conducted
by Prest. Josephine R. West, who presided
with quiet dignity. After singing by the chil-
dren, and prayer by Apostle F. D. Richards,
and singing again, minutes were read, followed
by imteresting exercises by the little folks.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards addressed the chil-
dren a few minutes, praising their good order
and attention.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith said she was very
pleased to meet with the children and see their
bright, happy faces; she told them of the ser-
vices at Kirtland, when Father Smith, the
grandfather of Prest. Joseph F. Smith, was
there, and they had four services every day in
the Temple, and the sick and the lame came to
be healed, and would throw away their crutches
and go home whole. One day Father Smith
prayed for a manifestation of the Spirit as
they had on the day of Pentecost, and his
prayer was answered, and the Temple was filled
with the Spirit of God, and a sound as of a
rushing of winds and roaring of flames was
heard; she asked the children several questions,
which were promptly answered.
	Prest. Joseph F. Smith then spoke, and ex-
pressed his pleasure at meeting with the
children and hearing their exercises and the
speeches made to them. He pointed out the
blessing Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith had been
to the children of Zion by employing her tal-

[Column 2]
ents in writing for the children and others, and
in organizing these Primary Associations. He
wished to impress upon the children the fact
of their being sons and daughters of the
Saints, born in the new and everlasting coven-
ant, by which they became legitimate heirs to
the priesthood—heirs of God and joint heirs
with Christ. There was a command given by
God to the children of ancient Israel to honor
their fathers and mothers, and he urged its ful-
filment upon the children of modern Israel.
Jesus Christ, when on earth, gave as the great-
est commandment, "Thou shalt love the Lord
thy God with all thy heart and thy neighbor as
thyself." Children who keep this command-
ment will never tell a lie, steal, curse or swear,
and if they thus keep God's word, He will heal
them when they are sick, through faith and the
laying on of hands of the Elders. Elder Smith
told the children of the mob who murdered the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum,
and drove the Saints from their homes across
the plains, and now that we are here in the
valleys of the mountains, the children of these
mobbers were coming to teach our boys and
girls religion. The speaker told the children
emphatically not to go to their schools nor as-
sociate with any Gentiles anywhere, and con-
cluded by blessing the children in the name of
Jesus Christ.
	In the afternoon the exercises of the children
continued. Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, Prest.
Joseph F. Smith, Apostle F. D. Richards and
Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson each addressed the
meeting and gave good advice and much en-
couragement to them to persevere in the course
they were pursuing, and become valiant in the
Lord's army,
	Closed by singing, benediction, and Primary
Conference adjourned for three months.


[Column 1]
JESSE BURNS,
OR,
