HOME AFFAIRS.

	PRIMARY Blanks for making up reports, for
sale at Deseret News Office.
	"THE Word of Wisdom" essay, by Florence
Ridges, published in our issue June 1, instead of
11th Ward should have re[--] 19th Ward.
	SISTERS B. W. Smith E. Howard and R. R.
Grant attended the Tooele Stake Ladies Confer-
ence held Saturday and Sunday 11th and 12th,
of the present month.
	SISTERS E. B. Snow Smith and Zina D. H. 
Young, are in Brigham City, attending the Con-
ference of Relief Society, and Y. D. M. I. A., and
Primary Associations which occured the 14th and
15th of June, It is expected they will visit the
organizations in towns adjacent previous to re-
turning home.
	THE Clerk of the House of Representatives
has placed the name of Hon. George Q. Cannon
upon the roll of that House, notwithstanding
all his enemies have done to oppose it. The
women of Utah, as well as the men, [---] cast
their votes for the Delegate of their choice, will
rejoice that one important step has been gained
in favor of the man elected by the people.
	WE hope the following will stimulate the peo-
ple of Utah to setting out mulberry trees and
raising cocoons. We are pleased to be able to
state that a large quantity of home-made silk,
suitable for netting, etc,, it now ready and for
sale, as per advertisement in our columns. The
silk is the natural color, but will make beautiful


[Column 1]

ties, mitts, gloves and other useful articles, and
will wash and wear even better than the col-
ored material.
	THE Sisters Conference of this Stake of Zion
will be held this week commencing on the 17th,
at 10 o'clock A. M., in the 14th, Ward Assembly
Rooms. The next day 18th, will be devoted to
the Primary Association in the morning and in
the afternoon to the Y.  L. M. I. A., and it is
expected will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall. Bishops, parents and all those who are
interested in the work of these organizatrons are
cordially invited to attend these gatherings.
	THE Old Folks' Excursion, according to previ-
ous notice, will take place on the 22nd anniver-
sary of Bishop Hunter's birthday. The place of
destination will be Farr's Grove, Ogden. The
affair being in the hands of such an efficient
committee cannot fail to be a complete success.
There will be a special choir for the occasion, who
are now practicing so as to be able to cheer and
inspire the old people with some stirring melo-
dies suitable for such an occasion. God bless the
Old Folks and those who respect age and seek
to comfort their lonely years.
	MONDAY May 23d, Sisters Zina D. H. Young
and M. Isabella Horne left this city to attend
the Sisters Conference of Seveir Stake and 
visit the various settlements in the vicinity.
At Gunnison on the way down they held two
meetings witht he Relief Society and Primary
Association. At Salina they held a general
meeting and then went on to Richfield, where
the conference was held the 26th and 27th of
May. They also visited Monroe, Glenwood, El-
sinor, Joseph, Vermillion, and all the other
towns in the county. At each of these
places the sisters held two meetings, and at
Redmund, Sister Zina organized the young la-
dies. In Sevier Stake, the sisters held about 30
meetings. From Sevier Stake the ladies went
on to Sanpete expecting to hold meetings in that
county, but Sister Horne was taken sick and
obliged to return home. An appointment hav-
ing been given out in Manti, Sister Zina filled
the appointment. Sister Horne's health has im-
proved since her return.
	THE second annual meeting of the Primary
Association of West Jordan was held on Tuesday
June 7, in the Ward meeting house at 10 o'clock.
Ther was a very full attendance, of the children
and quite a number of parents. The children
performing their respective parts of the pro-
gramme admirably. There were also several
articles on exibition made by the children which
prove that great interest is being taken in de-
veloping their talent and ability for active use-
fulness. The Association has a very efficient
board of officers. Mrs. Mary Bird President,
Mrs. Maria Goff and Mrs. Mary Ann Turner
Counselors. There were quite a number of ladies
from the city present who were all most hospit-
ably, entertained and feasted with strawberries.
In the afternoon the children had a dancing party
in charge of the ladies of the Primary Associa-
tion and Brother Samuel Bateman, who pre-
served most excellent order with two hundred
children, many of them very young. Refresh-
ments were distributed in the Hall to all present.
Altogether the affair was an enjoyable one.
Bishop Gardner came during the afternoon.
We will publish at another time the programme
of exercises.
	"GEMS for the Young Folks:"the fourth book of
the "Faith Promoting Series," has been recently
ssued from the office of the "Juvenile Instruct-
[-]r." It is quite as interesting as either of the
others, and they are certainly an acquisition to
the libraries of the young people, and indeed to
the Saints old and young. This last book con

[Column 2]

tains the almost marvelous story of Abraham
Kimball, which is every word true, and the half
is not told. We were acquainted with the
mother and grandparents of this young man,
and have always considered that his history was
a grand testimony of the truth of this Latter-
day work, and especially so of Plural Marriage.
His grandfather's confession to him every one
ought to read. The book contains many strong
testimonies to the truth from several traveling
Elders—stories of their missions, trials and per-
secutions. A chapter entitled "Overcoming
Diffidence," by G. Q. C., will be an excellent
lesson for the young people. Altogether the
book is most entertaining. The "Instructor"
Office is doing an excellent work in publishing
suitable reading for the Saints. For sale at the
office of the "Juvenile Instructor" and "Deseret 
News."


