AMANDA SMITH.
			[CONTINUED.]
	During the time we lived in Nauvoo, President
Joseph Smith organized a Relief Society.  Sister
Smith became a member of its first organization
and greatly rejoiced in the benevolent
work; much good was accomplished by it. 
The women of our people know how
to sympathize with suffering humanity and "to
weep with those that weep," and are well cal-
culated to minister to the needs of their fellow
creatures temporal and spiritual.  There were
many sick and poor in Nauvoo in consequence
of the mobbings and drivings they had just past
through, ond ague was prevalent all along the
river and indeed inland as well.  So that the
people had the fever and ague to contend against
in the midst of all their other difficulties. 
 The Relief Society did much good work in
many ways although at that time it was a new
thing for a woman to lead out in any public mat-
ter.  President Smith had confidence in wom-
an's ability to performe errands of importance as
the following will prove; in July 1842 it was sug-
gested that some measurs be taken by the Re-
lief Society to interest the Government of Il-
linois in protecting the Prophet Joseph from his
enemies in Missouri; it was decided that a peti-
tion from the Relief Society be presented to
Thomas Carlin Govenor of the State of Illinois
claming his protection as chief magistrate.  The
Governor's residence was in Quincy fifty miles
south of Nauvoo.  President Joseph Smith 
wished the ladies to make the effort themselves,
and himself named the sisters who were to be
the bearers of the petition.  Mrs. Amanda Smith, 
the subject of this biography, was honored by
him as one of the three ladies chosen to fill this
mission.  The petition was signed by every
member of the Relief Society.  The Governor re-
ceived the ladies with "cordiality and polite-
ness,"  assuring them that "the laws and con-
stitution should be his polar star in case of any
difficulty." However it was afterwards ascer-
tained that at that very time he was "secretly
plotting against the rights and safety of Pres.
Smith."  But whatever the result the ladies had
nobly manifested their zeal and courage and the
Prophet appreciated their efforts.  This instance
is worthy of record as it is the first mission of 
the kind undertaken by the women of this
Church.
 "In July 1847 we started from Nauvoo intend-
ing to go with the Saints to the Rocky Moun-
tains, but for the want of sufficient means for
so long a journey we were compelled to stop in
Iowa. We remained until the year 1850 when 
we took up our line of march for Salt Lake City,
arriving on the 18th, of September safe and well.
Shortly after we arrived in this city my husband
who had been for some time dilatory in his
duties; apostatized from the faith and we sep-
arated.  I took the children with me and pro-
vided for myself.  I managed my own affairs
and succeeded by practising industry and econ-
omy in taking care of my family until Alma
grew to manhood; he has been more than a son
to me.  In 1856 my son Alma was called upon a
mission to the Sandwich Islands.  He had been 
married a year or two previous and had already
one son."
	Sister Smith is a woman of exceeding great
faith, she seems to have possessed the gift of
faith in a wonderful degree; her life abounds
with incidents in which the power of God has
been manifested in the healing of the sick.  She
says "I have drank the bitter dregs of the cup of
sorrow and affliction, as well as partaken of the
blessing of an all merciful God.  I have drank
from the fountain of the waters of life freely.  I 
have seen the Lord's power manifest to a great
degree. I have seen the lame leap as an hart,
the eyes of the blind open, and as it were, the 
dead raised to life--all in my own family since I 
have been a member of the Church of Jesus 
Christ.  I have born six children since receiv-
ing the Gospel, and of these five were born
without pain through the power of the priest-
hood of God, and I feel that of all women I have
the greatest reason to rejoice and thank my
Heavenly Father; and I do thank and praise his
holy name for his blessings to me; and I do de-
sire that I may ever be kept faithful unto the end
that I may receive the reward of the just.  I 
will relate one or two occurrences which tran-
spired in my own house showing the power of
faith or healing."
	Willa[--] [---] when about twelve
years old was thrown from a horse and taken up
for dead.  He lay until men ran from a half
mile away to help him, and they carried him
back the half mile, before there was any appear-
ance of life.  By the administration of the Elders
and the power of the holy priesthood he was
brought back to life.  His skull was cracked
and his head very much injured.  For some
days he lay perfectly unconscious, and no one
except those who had faith in the Gospel could
beleive that he could ever be restored to health
and strength."  "When my son Alma was about
two years old he had sore eyes until he was actu-
ally blind, and a film grew over both eyes, 
which destroyed the sight.  This film was re-
moved by the power of God in an instant and no
weakness even was left.  These are only a few
of the numerous instances of the power of God,
which I have witnessed in my own family."
			To be continued.


