THE ASSASSINATION.

 The Assassination of the President of the
United States has been the topic of conversa-
tion, the theme of discussion, ever since it trans-
pired. News of the terrible occurrence was
telegraphed all over the world almost imme-
diately, and condolences and messages of sym-
pathy telegraphed back again with lightning
speed.  It was a time that tried men’s souls;
strong men trembled like an aspen leaf, and
great men wept.  Thousands of men and women
offered the most earnest prayers to heaven that
his life might be spared, that the country so
glorified for its liberty might not again be left to
mourn its Chief Executive, slain by the hand
of an assassin; that his wife might not be left to
mourn a husband, his children bereaved of a
loving father and protector, his fond and aged
h:' mother grieve the loss of a son,of whom she had
been so justly proud.
 The distressing event, which took place on the
2d of July, has been published in all the papers
over and over, and every separate detail given to
the anxious public, who have ever since been
most eager to learn of his condition in every
particular.  The people have never for a moment
seemed to lose their interest in the minutest de-
tails.  If President Garfield or his friends had
any doubts how he stood in the affections of the
people of this Republic, they ought to be satis-
fied, now in the manifestations of love, of solici-
tude and attention from every portion of the
United States, as also foreign lands.  That he is
 most sincerely beloved by the people has been
sufficiently demonstrated In a thousand ways
during his illness.
	It is indeed dreadful that the spirit of Nihilism
has reached this fair and boasted land of free-
dom, and stained the American soil with the
blood of one of its bravest and most heroic
patriots—a man who distinguished himself so
admirably in the wars of his country, and who
was held so high in the hearts of the people as
 to secure his election to the highest office in the
gift of the nation—that such a man should be
attacked, at such a time and place, seems not
only improbable but utterly impossible.  And
yet such are the facts which must be recorded
In history, forever a blight upon the fair escutch-
eon of the Republic.
 While the people were desirous of celebrating
the national day, and preparations for festivity
and rejoicing were being made everywhere, sud-
denly there fell a crushing blow, and a dark
and solemn pall, as it were, settled upon the
whole land.  Faith, bright harbinger and hand-
maid of Hope inspired the soul, while the best
skill the country afforded was concentrated on the
one grand and important matter of saving the
precious life that hung as it were upon a 
thread.
	In the midst of this great sorrow, Mrs. Gar-
field bears up with the dignity born of trial, the
self-possession of true womanhood, and con-
stantly encourages and stimulates her husband.
“O woman! In our hours of ease,
Uncertain, coy, and hard to please,
And variable as the shade
By the light quivering aspen made;
When pain and anguish wring the brow,
A ministering angel, thou! ”
 President Garfield is a thousand times more
endeared to the people from what he has suf-
fered, and every hour of uncertainty is fraught
with increased affection, and his hold upon the
people will be greatly strengthened in conse-
quence of the injury he has sustained.
 May the God of heaven, he who holds the
destinies of nations in His hands, preserve him,
that this Republic may not have to suffer the
stain of another martyrdom like that of Abra-
ham Lincoln.  There is at present every hope of
the recovery of the President, and the people
rejoice; and when the glad news is telegraphed
that all danger is past, the sounds of mirth and
joyousness, the shouts and acclamations that
were hushed with sorrow upon the nation’s glo-
rious day of Independence, will resound through-
out the land, and ringing peals of fervent ho-
sannas to God for his restoration to health and
happiness will rise from ten thousand voices in
one grand swelling chorus, not only from the
nation’s capital, and where the great and wise
gather to celebrate a nation’s gratitude, but the
people in their humble homes and lowly cottages
will pour forth their rejoicings like sweet incense
to heaven.
	The latest news up to date Is most favorable
for the President’s recovery.


