HOME AFFAIRS.

 MRS. M. I. Horne and her daughter Miss Mat-
tie, retnrned Saturday evening from their trip
to Bear Lake Valley, much improved in health.

   THE Quarterly Conference of this Stake of
Zion was held in this city Saturday and Sunday,
9th and 10th of July.  The speakers seemed to


be especially endowed with the Spirit of God, to 
give instruction and connsel to the people. 

	THE County Central Committee met pursuant
to call in the Council House, Saturday, July 9,
at 12 M.  Hon. John Sharp, Chairman.  A ma-
jority being present, it was decided that Primary
meetings be held in the several county precincts
on Monday evening, the 18th inst., at 8 P.M.,
for the purpose of electing delegates to the
County Convention, which will be held in the
County Court House on Saturday, July 28,
1881, at 11 A.M.
				Wednesday July 13, 1881.
   DEAR SISTER WELLS:  Lest it should not be
understood will you please say through the EX-
PONENT that the 240 pages in type which is two 
sizes smaller than the small pica which I had
intended to use contains more lines of reading
matter than the 275 pages of small pica would
have done.  The books in leather binding will be
$1.50 cach, in cloth $1.25 cach. Those who have
advanced $.175 will have the 25 cts remitted to
them, and those who have remitted 1.00 can
forward the remainder when their books will be
promptly sent post paid. The books can be ob-
tained at the EXPONENT Office.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	"WILD Flowers of Deseret," just issued from 
the Juvenile Instructor Office, is a collection of
Poems, from the pen of the gifted lady, Mrs. 
Augusta Joyce Crocheron, of this city.  We
commend this beautiful little book to the public,
The pieces contained in this volume were many
of them written when the author was very
young. She has one of those exquisitely sensi-
tive natures which need encouragement.  The
poems are upon a variety of subjects, sentimental,
pathetic, moral, religious  &c., with only a few
personals.  They are rich in pathos and full of
sweet melody.  The lady hesitated greatly in
presenting her work feeling herself only a wild-
wood plant, secluded from the great busy world,
but her numerous friends were anxious her poet-
ical efforts should be known and appreciated.
One of the best of her longer poems is "The
Coming of the King," a very pathetic piece.
Parintha's Ride and a true story, the facts
being known to the author.  The poems are all
strictly in keeping with true religion.  Mrs. C.
though modest even to diffidence is a woman of
cultured thought and talent which has given ex-
pression to ideas, opinions, sentiments and facts,
and clothed them so beautifully that they cannot
fail to please, to edify and to elevate the reader.
We heartily recommend the book to old and 
young, and feel positive it will be a desirable ac-
quisition to the libraries of the people.  One of
the quaintest pieces we ever read is "The Lost
Thought" on page 223. It perusing this preci-
ous little book we find it difficult to select the
best and speak of them.  Wild flowers were
always sweet to us and as the book has been
dedicated to the writer, perhaps we may be ex-
cused from saying more than expressing our
heartflet gratitude for the honor conferred, of
which we feel most unworthy.  Accompanying
the Book which was the first intimation of the
facts was a most exquisite bouquet of real flowers
arranged artistically by the same hands, which
have written the many pretty and tender lines
the book contains.  The presentation was made
by a third party, a lady exceptionally gifted in
language. Such manifestations of frendship
and sisterly love, call forth from the heart emo-
tions that no words can truthfully express.


