BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

 In looking over my past life I can plainly see
the overruling hand of providence and realize
that I was favored in being blessed with par-
ents who when they heard the voice of the true
shepherd, listened and followed Him and were
willing to accept of salvation at the risk of
losing their good name. As I grew up I was
more or less fascinated by the allurements of
the world and there was many a hard struggle
between my love for them and desire to be
saved. The germ was there but it took time
and patient care, and much watering from
the pure fountain before it gave evidence that
it had taken root or would spring forth to bear
fruit. There were times when I wondered if
religion by some other name would not do just
as well. I thought of the contrast between our
circumstances and those of our kinkred who


[Column 1]
were enjoying wealth and worldly homes while
we were not only enduring privation but were
looked down upon and despised by the most of 
them and the people at large, and I saw a dif-
ference even in our own midst; those who could
dress the finest were the ones who were most
respected and admired, and they in turn looked
upon those that did not dress and make as fine
an appearance as themselves; this had always
been the case; as a sample I will relate a little
circumstance that happened to me when a little
child, which no doubt helped to mold my fu-
ture character. 
   School was out for noon and I having an
apple one of my mates asked me for a piece of 
it when I handed her the apple, as she was
biting it another girl some five years our senior
whose parents were well off and had not as yet
been called to leave their home or sacrifice any
property, with a proud look said- "I wouldn't
touch her apple;" one of her companions asked
why? When she said why "her father's poor,"
the other laughingly replied "I'm sure he don't
look very poor," meaning in flesh. Having a 
proud and sensitive nature her words stung
me and though I said nothing I remembered
It. This was the first time that I ever realized
that I was poor or that poverty was considered
any disgrace. We had a comfortable home
and orchard and I had not wanted for any 
thing, and was much better off than numbers
of my little mates, but to the sequel. Years
passed which brought many changes and when
in my teens this same girl took a great fancy to 
me and sought me for a companion though I 
was so much the youngest. Our acquaintance
ended in a deep and lasting friendship; and
though our circumstances were afterwards re-
versed I never referred to it and she most likely
never knew how she wounded me, when I was
a poor man's child. I am very sorry to have it
to say that there is too much of this spirit
manifested among us now, not only in the hearts 
of some of the children but older ones are
guilty who bear the name of Latter-day Saints
and should be more exemplary but instead are 
stumbling blocks to the weak, as well as a re-
proach to the cause which we have espoused. 
I confess that there were times when I wished
that my father had never heard of "Mormon-
ism" and then we might have been rich instead
of which he had given his money and all his 
time from the beginning, and left us with barely
enough to subsist upon. I thought that worldy
riches would bring happiness, and I believed that
if my father would only leave the "Mormons"
and return to his former home, he would soon
accumulate wealth and I fancied that life there
would be one round of pleasure and worldy
enjoyments; but these temptations were only
momentary, being of a hopeful nature the cloud
would soon burst and I could see a bright fut-
ure in imagination. I was always indulging in 
castle building, and my pleasures were too of-
ten anticipated and very seldom realized, until
experience taught me to take such things as
they came and enjoy to-day and let to-morrow
take care of itself. Until my faith was estab-
lished and I knew for myself that this work
was true, and that my future happines or misery
depended upon the course I took here whether
I received or rejected the principles contained
in the everlasting Gospel, I was like a ship
without an anchor liable to be tossed to and fro
by the various trials and temptations that beset
me. When a child I had perfect faith and
confidence to ask  God because I knew no-
thing of the opposite power and my faith had
not been tested. I believed this to be the true
church because my parents did and I trusted
to their judgment believing all they told me to 
be true. What a responsibility there is resting
upon parents. I can truly say the Lord has
been very good to me and I consider that I 
was exceedingly fortunate in being blessed with
affectionate and wise parents who gave me

[Column 2]timely advice and admonition, though it was 
not always agreeable and I was incapable of ap-
preciating it at the time, but how often I look
back with a grateful heart that I was preserved
from falling into the snares set to lead the youth
of Zion down to perdition. To my young
friends who may have experienced similar
trials I will say "seek first the kingdom of God 
and its righteousness and all other things shall be
added thereto;" for this is the only legitimate
way for us to obtain happiness; I kvow this to be
true and would that it were possible for me to
impress it upon the minds of the youth that
they might not have to suffer sorrow and per-
haps despair and everlasting woe. How truth-
ful are the following lines from Pollock's Coures
of Time. Love God, love truth, love virtue, 
and be happy. 
	"These were the words first uttered in the ear
	Of every being made, and made
	For thought, or word, or deed accountable.
	Most men the first forget, the second none. 
	Whatever path they took by hill or vale,
	By night or day, the universal wish,
	The aim, and sole intent was happiness:
	But erring from the heaven-appointed path,
	Strange tracks they took through barren wastes,
	And up the sandy mountain climbing tolled,
	Which pining lay beneath the curse of God,
	And naught produced: yet did the traveller look,
	And point his eye before him greedily,
	As if he saw some verdant spot where grew
	The heavenly flower, where sprung the well of life,
	Where undisturbed felicity reposed;
	Though wisdom's eye no vestige could discern,
	That happiness had ever passed that way.

	Wisdom was right, for still the terms remained
	Unchanged, unchangeable, the terms on which
	True peace was given to man; unchanged as God,
	Who, in his own essential nature, binds
	Eternally to virtue happiness;
	Nor lets them part through all his Universe."
   This book if read with care, might prove a 
great benefit to the young and thoughtless in
bringing their minds to reflect upon what is of
the greatest importance; the day "when all will
be called to give an account of the deeds done
in the bodg," and not wait until, the day has
come and, "The hour of grace,
	"The final hour of grace is fully past.
	The time accepted for repentance, faith,
	And pardon, is irrevocably past;
	And justice unaccompanied, as wont,
	With mercy, now goes forth, to give to all
	According to their deeds. Justice alone;
	For why should mercy, any more be joined?
	What hath not mercy, mixed with judgement, done,
	That mercy mixed with judgment and reproof,
	Could do? 'Did I not revelation  make,"
	Plainly and clearly, of my will entire?
	Before them set my holy law, and give
	Them knowledge, wisdom, prowess, to obey,
	And win by self-wrought works, eternal life?
	Rebelled, did I not send them terms of peace,
	Which, not my justice, but my mercy asked?-
	Terms costly to my well-beloved Son;
	To them gratuitous, exacting faith
	Alone for pardon, works evincing faith?
	Have I not early risen, and set my Seers,
	Prophets, apostles, teachers, ministers,
	With signs and wonders, working in my name?
	Have I not still, from age to age, raised up,
	As I saw needful great religious men,
	Gifted by me with large capacity,
	And by my arm omnipotent uphled,
	To pour the numbers of my mercy forth,
	And roll my judgments on the ear of man?
	And lastly when the promised hour was come,
	What more could  most abundant mercy do?"
   I hope to be pardoned for quoting so much
from this Poem but much that he describes I 
know to be true having been taught these great
and important lessons in the school of experi-
ence. The principles contained in this the
Gospel of Christ are so clearly set forth and
explained by Him that no Latter-day Saint
who will read this work can doubt that he was

[Column 3]gifted with inspiration for his mind soared above
the vain things around him. On the first page
he writes,
	The muse, that soft and sickly wooes the ear
	Of love, or chanting loud in windy rhyme
	Of fabled hero, raves through gandy tale
	Not overfraught with sense, I ask not; such
	A strain befits not argument so high.

	"Hold my right hand, Almighty! and me teach
	To strike the lyre, but seldom struck to notes
	Harmonious with the morning stars, and pure
	As those of sainted bards, and angels sang,
	Which wake the echoes of eternity-
	That fools may hear and tremble, and the wise
	Instructed listen of ages yet to come."
   The Author of this book was certainly a re-
markable man raised up and inspired to write
it but the labor was so arduous that it affected
his health and cost him his life he dying in the 
twenty-ninth year of his age. His grave bears
the following inscription:

"The Grave of
Robert Pollock, AM.,
Author of "The Course of Time,"
His Immortal Poem
In His 
Monument.
Erected by Admirers of His Genius."
   If the mist or vail which hides the Eternities
from our view could only be removed for a mo-
ment and we could have a slight glimpse of 
things as they are there oh, how vain and worth-
less the things around us would seem. Would
any of us condescend to read novels or be will-
ing to waste a moment of the time allotted to 
us to prepare ourselves to dwell there? I think
not, then why not listen and obey the voice of 
wisdom, and ever seek for the spirit that can
lift our hearts above the paltry things around
us enabling us to cultivate that love which sur-
passeth all understanding that will fill our
hearts with meekness, mercy and charity to-
wards our fellow beings. Our Savior said "If
you do right in all other things and lack charity
ye are not mine," and also "To do unto others
as you would have them do unto you." Every-
thing in the world is so uncertain and change-
able that a person who is wealthy to-day may
be a beggar to-morrow and vice versa; so would
it not be better for us all to show civility and
even politeness to one another? Jesus said,
"This is my commandment, that ye love one
another, as I have loved you," and "If the
world hate you, ye know that it hated me before
it hated you, "If ye were of the world the world
would love its own. "If they have persecuted
me, they will also persecute you:" The people
of the world must be very blind not to see the
facts as they are or how can they deny that
this is the true Church of Christ! I hope that
these few scattered ideas and reflections may
help to stimulate and stir up the pure minds
in the way of remembeance that in the last
day we may not be found on the left hand of 
our Father when He utters these awful words,
	"Ye knew your duty, but ye did it not."


