A REVERIE. 
		PART FIRST. 
I wandered through a ruin, old and grand, 
Where ivy twined across the massive door, 
And shadows fell around on every hand, 
And mellow sunbeams played upon the floor. 

It was a picture for an artist's eye, 
And one that lives within my soul to-day;
I cannot understand the reason why
"It haunts me still," like scenes of some old play.

It was deserted, desolate and lone, 
The owls and bats made nests within its walls; 
Its inmates to some other land had flown, 
And left forever their ancestral halls.  

All trace is gone to those who do not know, 
Who come and gaze, and go upon their way; 
May be they wonder how it happened so, 
And why the house was left there to decay.  

Those hemlock groves, the gentle streams that glide
So smoothly on, why tell they not the tale?
Aye, one may wander by the brooklet's side, 
And listen to the songsters in the vale, 

Or the soft summer winds, that seem to sigh-
But none of these the mystery reveal;
The mournful echoes in the distance die, 
And all conspire the secret to couceal. 

The daffodils are blooming, bright and gay, 
And buttercups and cowslips thickly grow, 
And from afar, the scent of new-mown hay
	Is waited as the gentle breezes blow.  

Beyond's the forest, with its giant trees, 
Where we may ponder in profoundest thought, 
Till, startled by the whispers of the breeze, 
We realize our minds are overwrought.  

There's soft green pastures, where the lilies grow, 
And sunset's glory's resting on the hills;
How beautiful the picture in the glow
Of fancy's radiance, which my bosom fills.  

We wander back again, as in a dream, 
Thro' an old orchard, where the birds are singing, 
Back to the hemlock grove and pearly stream;
	But hark!  the village bells methinks are ringing!

O merry bells, I ken ye know I've come, 
Ye wake so many memories which have slept, 
Say, can ye tell me of my childhood's home, 
And where the records of the house are kept?

Ah; in the background, swinging to and fro, 
Creaking and moaning, as 'twere fain to tell, 
The oldest fashioned sweep of long ago, 
Is dangling over a moss covered well.  

And there's a bucket, let me take a drink-
How sweet it tastes, wil't bring me back my youth?
Or help me of the conscious past to think?
Alas! I need not ask. I know the truth.  

I linger near the place, as tho' a spell
Had fallen on me, and I fain would weep, 
Such strange emotions in my bosom swell; 
Is this a reverie, or is it sleep?
