CONTINUED.

	James Wyvil was a man of good standing
well known and respected by all. He had
traveled across the plains in the same company,
and made the acquaintance of Jesse and Mary
under the most trying circumstances. He had
been kind in extending any assistance in his
power to his fellow travelers, and although
having his own team to look after, had found
many opportunities of rendering services to
Captain Burns. Jesse being his Captain in the
traveling organization, He had often admired
Mary's fortitude under trying circumstances,
and considered her one of the noblest and best
of women. He was from Massachusetts and
had a beautiful family; his wife and daughters 
being raised amid the refinements of good so-
ciety. Mary found much happiness in their
company,while they in turn,had extended to her
many courtesies and kindnesses during Jesse’s
long absence. As the time passed he grew to
admire her noble and unselfish principles, and
perhaps he was just a little glad when he
learned that she was finally separated from
Jesse. Be that as it may, he often found op-
portunities of going to enquire after her welfare,
or render her some service which he knew her
lonely situation would cause her to appreciate.
His wife joined him in his kind attention and
Mary and Minnie were often invited to their
house or to attend some social gathering in their
company. At length he proposed taking her
under his protection by making her his wife.
She knew no one she could esteem higher, and
she had been so long deprived of a husband’s
sheltering care and companionship, that it
seemed to her a haven of refuge. She felt that
it was impossible to ask charity of the Bishop
and it seemed her only alternative. She could
not wrong Jesse by doing so, for he had forsaken
her and cast her from him; the law had divid-
ed them and given her an honorable release.
It was not dishonorable to become James
Wyvil's second wife. Such marriages were of
frequent occurrences, and no wife was honored
less because she was not the first wife. She
would have suffered untold miseries, would
have given her life rather than her honor, but
there was no such question at stake. In marry-
ing him she sacrificed no social principle, or
moral standing,yet it was with some misgivings 
she scarcely knew why, that she became James
Wyvil's wife.
	Why is it not given us to foresee the future?
How different we should sometimes plan our
lives: and yet could she have known "what
might have been," she would have been con-
tent, perhaps, to accept her fate as it was
instead of rebeling at her lot. James moved
her to his own home,and was so kind to Minnie
and Nellie that they felt as though he was a
friend indeed to protect and care for them.
"While her father lived Minnie could never
give another that title, but she was ready to
appreciate kindness and give the respect that


was due. Mary felt as if she too had a friend
who would care for her,and provide for her and
her family.
 She had not long enjoyed her tranquility
however, when it was broken up by a letter
from Jesse, calling her every endearing name,
and craving her forgiveness for his haste in
writing under the influence of excitement. He
had just received her letter and learned from
her own hand the reason of her not coming.
His brother had inflamed his mind with jealousy
and in his bitter disappointment he had written
as he did; but all was forgiven with him, and
money sent for her and the children, for he
began to realize that they must surely be in
want.
	Oh Jesse! had you but realized that sooner!
had you reasoned calmly, and trusted her that
was so true to you, that she would have laid
down her life rather than sacrifice her dignity,
or your honor: her who had never spoken to
any other man save in the common courtesy of
friendship; how much might have been spared
to your self, to her and her innocent children.
But Oh! the desparing voice of the heart, when
it echoes the cry, “too late!” How quickly
would the wounded spirit have fled to his ten-
crembrace, and the home ties been gathered
which had so long been parted asunder, but it
was too late, Mary was the wife of another,
her children were taken away from their father,
the home ties were broken and her heart was
ready to break, as it echoed the refrain, too late!
too late! She had taken the fatal step that
could not be retraced. His tender letter had
wiped away all feelings of resentment, and she
could not forget that he was the choice of her
youth, the father of her children. It seemed
to her that if she could lie down and die, it
would be sweeter far than to live and know
that she had taken the fatal step that separated
their lives forever. She forgot the long years
of suffering, the agonized prayers, the angry
letter, the threat of taking her little one from
her which was the cause of her haste. If he
had not said that, she might have waited still;
but even the wild beasts will turn when its
young are taken from it, and the mother-heart
dictated her to defend her child. What could
she do? She could not retrace her steps, She
must hold her life as it was, and walk the way
for she could not turn back. No matter how
weary or heart-sick; no matter how dark the
road, she must travel it, though the thorns
should prick her tender feet, and the light of
her soul be turned to darkness and despair.
She was the wife now of James Wyvil and she
must not chill the fountain of his tenderness,
nor wean his feelings from her by useless re-
grets. She had taken upon herself new obliga-
# tions, and she would be true to her trust Like 
the Spartan youth she must conceal the fox in
her bosom, though it gnaw her vitals. She
wrote to Jesse of what she had done and why
i she had done it. That henceforth their lives
must be apart. The money he had sent should
be saved for his children, and she hoped let
what would transpire, he would not forget
them.
[To be Continued.]


