BY HANNAH T. KING.

Memory like music, steals upon the ear,
And wraps us in the visions of the past.

Silence oft is eloquence! and while the
Lip moves not, the heart and soul are bowed
In worship at a consecrated shrine,
Composed of admiration and respect.
Memory holding still her mystic reign,
And gathering the Past into her sto[--]
Till, culminating at a point, the door
Of language is unsealed, and tries to tell
The garnered thoughts, long there as relics lain;
Its rosary too is sacred hold, on which
Are daily counted well-remembered,
Scenes and forms, gestures, actions, words and looks,
Making palpable ONE who is not dead,
But passed behind the Veil o'ershadowing
Mortal Vision, mortal touch, or hearing!

June! Yes June, the glorious, regal month,
When earth was strewn with flowers, and the sun.
Shone forth in full effulgence, bright and warm,
And Spring put on her crown and courtly robe—
A robe in all the varied colors gay;
With wreaths of beauteous flowers on her head,
And gems of morning dew studding each one;
In all the rich profusion June displays!
And in her grand and queenly step went forth,
And stretching out her beauteous arms received
Within their [---] hold a baby boy
Just struggling into life! She caught him up,
And printed on his cheek a zephyr kiss;
And said her presence never should depart
From out the atmosphere surrounding him!
Even that the June should be infused
Within his infant soul in coming life!
She'd throw her genial influence around
His earthly path, and smile on him for aye!
His name should indicate immortal youth,
And tho on earth his years should many be,
He still, through all, should be forever YOUNG!
That age should beautify, and not destroy,
That Time should have the power to renovate,
His eye should not be dim, nor hair turn grey,
His mind, illum'd and clear should ever be:
That wives, and children, should from him receive
The patent brand that made them; ever YOUNG!
And that his name should far and wide be great,
Around the circumnavigated globe!
That friends in truth and love, should round him cling,
And even foes should feel the mystic charm,
And serpents, dumb, before the charmer be!
And One, above cadorsed His handmaid's words,
And sealed them with Jehovah's signet ring.

And forth he went upon the earth, and met
A spirit even mightier than his own!
They looked into each other's eyes and saw,
They clasped each other's hand and knew,
That God to them a mission on this earth
Had pre-ordained, and given them to bear
To every nation, every land and clime!
And hence, they laid the rudimental plan,
And carried out the angel's words to them!
And organized Christ's Church on earth,
No more—no, nevermore to be thrown down!
This history all have read—by practise know.
Time rushes on with almost noiseless stream;
And bears us on the bosom of its wave:
Long years have passed—that treasured one is gone!
The June has come and gone, and come again,
And Memory rises from her thousand cells,
And in phantasma brings the past once more
Like Banquo's Ghosts before the peering mind.
And we [--] thought live o'er the times of old,
And [---] the future [---]
And, REVELATION slightly draws the veil,
And Faith, and Hope, and Love we do behold!

[Column 2]
Come forth to bless, and comfort, and sustain
Those left on earth, oft dreaming on the past;
Waiting reunion in the heaven above,
With all those lost on earth—and gone before!
	June 1, 1881.


[Column 1]
CLOSING PARAGRAPH OF LIFE IN-
