DISRAELI’S SENTIMENTS ON WOMAN
SUFFRAGE.
 “I say that in a country governed by a woman
—where you allow women to form part of the
other estate of the realm—peeresses in their
own right, for example—where you allow a
woman not only to hold land, but to be a lady
of the manor and hold legal courts—where a
woman by law may be a church warden and
overseer of the poor—I do not see, where she
has so much to do with the State and Church,
on what reasons, if you come to right, she has
not a right to vote.”
	In 1873 a memorial, signed by upwards of
1,000 women, was presented to Mr. Disraeli
through the late Mr. Gore Langton, M. P., to
whom he addressed the following reply:
	“Dear Gore Langton—I was much honored
by receiving from your hands the memorial
signed by 11,000 women of England, among
them some illustrious names, thanking me for
my services in attempting to abolish the anom-
aly that the parliamentary franchise attached
to a household or property qualification, when
possessed by a woman, should not be exercised,
though in all matters of local government,
when similarly qualified, she exercises this
right. As I believe this anomaly to be inju-
rious to the best interests of the country, I
trust to see it removed by the wisdom of Par-
liament.
		Yours sincerely, B. DISRAELI.”
 The following resolution was passed at a
meeting of the executive committee of the
Manchester National Society for Women's
Suffrage, held April 26, 1881.
	“That this committee in expressing their deep
sense of the loss which Parliament and the
country have sustained by the lamented death
of the Earl of Beaconsfield, desire to record


their gratitude for the services the deceased
statesman rendered to the cause of the enfran-
chisement of women by stating in the House
of Commons, during the debates which pre-
ceded the passing of the hist reform bill, his
opinion that women having property ought to
have a vote, and by his steady and uniform
support of the bill to remove the electoral dis-
abilities of women so long as he remained a
member of the House of Commons."—Ex.


