BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Every promise made to my father concern-
ing himself and family were realized during
his absence. He with his brethren arrived in
Kirtland May 22nd, 1838, having been absent
eleven months and nine days. He says, "I
found my family in good health, and as com-
fortably situated as I could expect; our joy was
mutual. The Saints likewise welcomed us
home, for which I felt thankful to my heavenly
Father.
	But my journey was not yet ended; for soon
after my arrival in Kirtland, I commenced
making preparations to move my family to the
State of Missouri, where brother Joseph and the
greater part of the authorities of the Church,
and almost all the members who had any faith
in Mormonism had already removed. The
cause of their removal to the West was the
persecutions to which they were subject in
Kirtland. Most of the brethren who yet re-
sided there, although very kind and affectionate,
were weak in the faith, in consequence of trials
and temptations. This caused us to grieve ex-
ceedingly and we resolved to cheer them up as
much as we possibly could. We preached in
the House of the Lord a few times, recounted
our travels, and the great success which at-
tended our labors; also the marvellous work
which the Lord had commenced in England;
they began to take courage, their confidence
increased, their faith was strengthened, and
they again realized the blessings of Jehovah."
	"About the first of July I commenced my
journey with my family accompanied by
Elder Orson, Hyde, Erastus Snow and
Winslow Farr, two brothers by the name
of Badger, with their families, and the Widow
Beeman and her two daughters, Artemissa
and Louisa, and Sarah Millekin num-
bering to about forty souls. We took
wagons to Wellsville, on the Ohio river, about
130 miles, then took steamboat to St. Louis,
also from thence to Richmond on the Missouri
river." Before we arrived at St. Louis, we
were nearly all sick from the intense heat of
the weather, and having to drink water from
the muddy Missouri they took every op-
portunity when the boat stopt, to wood up, to
go for clear water, which the boat hands had
warned them against, telling them it would
make us sick. The cabin passengers had ice to
use with it but we were not able to indulge in
the luxury. The boat would often start before
the brethren could get back but when they
came running and shouting with their pails of
water they would go ashore and take them in
and roar with laughter at their ludricous ap-
pearance more especially Brother Hyde who
was very fleshy.
	The water being very low the boat was con-
stantly running upon sandbars which made
the journey very tedious.
	Lyman E. Johnson, Sister Hyde's brother
who had formerly been one of the Twelve
Apostles, was living in Richmond and he or-
dered a dinner at the Hotel for all of his old

[Column 2]
friends, and treated us with every kindness—
Brother Hyde and family remained there sev-
eral days. Wagons were procured there to
take us to Far West, where we arrived on the
25th of July.
	The manners and customs of the Western
people and many things there were quite dif-
ferent from any thing I had ever seen or heard
of. The first peculiarity that I recollect was
when we first landed in the West. Some or-
ange girls came on to the boat and when the
price of them was asked and they began talk-
ing of Bits and Picayunes how we stared, it was
all "Dutch" to us, and we had to get an inter-
preter. We stopt one night on the road from
Riehmond where they had negroes and it was
quite a novelty to hear them call the cows
"Sook Cherry" etc., and see them tote, as they
called it, the pails or tubs of milk on their
heads and also water, a thing I had never seen
before. Pails with bails was something un-
known among them.
	The meeting between my father and the Pro-
phet and others of his brethren was a happy
one some of whom were moved to tears when
they took each other by the hand. Father was
very weak and continued feeble for some time. 
He writes in his Journal.—"Sunday July 29th,
I met Joseph, Sidney and Hyrum. on the pub-
lic Square, as they started for Adam-ondi-
ahman, Joseph repuested me to preach to the
Saints and give them a history of my mission,
saying it would revive their spirits and do them
good, which I did, although I was hardly ableto stand. I related many things respecting my
mission and travels, which were gladly received
by them, whose hearts were cheered by the re-
cital, while many of the Elders were stirred up
to diligence and expressed a great desire to
accompany me when I should return to Eng-
land."
	Having continued longer than I anticipated
I shall now close Life Incidents, but not before
expressing the gratitude I feel for the privilege
of belonging to the unpopular sect called
"Mormons." I never saw the time that I felt
more joyful and more willing to bear the stigmas
which are heaped upon us than I am to-day. 
Jesus and his Apostles and Saints were also
hated, and they suffered a great deal more than
the Latter-day Saints, and were finally des-
troyed from off the earth, but we have no fears
of a similar fate, for we know that God has set
his hand for the second time and that He
will live to fulfil his purposes, and though
hundreds may apostatize and join our enemies,
they will accomplish nothing but their own
ruin, for apostates are looked down upon by
the Gentiles and despised, as traitors always are. 
The wicked only use them as tools to overthrow
the work of the Almighty. It is only those
who are weak in the faith that fear and tremble.
"The wicked flee when no man pursueth," and
they judge the Latter-day Saints by themselves.
The bitterness that is manifested by the world
towards this people is the greatest proof to me
that this is the true Gospel of Jesus Christ. If
my homely description of scenes and incidents
among the Saints prove beneficial to others I
will feel amply rewarded and can say as the
Poet,

"If one soul improve I have not lived in vain."


A WOMAN whose ruling passion is not vanity
is superior to any man of equal capacity.
Lavater.


