THE STAGE OF LIFE.
This earth is a stage upon which we are all
acting a part; we, ourselves cannot see so well
how we are playing our respective parts as
those who are looking on and observing us can;
we sometimes think that we will turn aside a
little from the plan which the Great Designer
has laid down for us to go by in his programme,
thinking that perhaps, we can find a better
method whereby we can benefit ourselves; while
upon the stage; never thinking that we will
need assistance after we step down off from the
stage and enter in upon the reality of another
life; we will then find that by taking our own
course that we had only sought to appear well
while upon the stage; but then alas, had nev-
er reflected upon the future, but if we had been
wise enough to follow the good advice given us, 
thereby we would have lain up treasures more
durable, which would have lasted us through-
out eternity. So now my dear sisters the Gospel
has taught us to obey the perfect law, let us try
to play our part well and lay up for ourselves
treasures in heavens “where moth and rust do
not corrupt” and let us be wise in improving
our time; and not spend all the precious mo-
ments in making fine apparel to adorn ourselves
with here, but give a portion of our time to
caring for the poor among God’s people and
informing our minds upon all subjects pertain-
ing to our pure religion; and never let our
minds go so far astray after the fashion and
folly of this world, that we will render ourselves
unfit to enter in upon the realities of a higher
and better life and lose the crown which is laid
up for the faithful Mothers in Israel. Let us
above all things not neglect the tender little
ones whom God has given and entrusted in our
care; do not let them run and take care of
themselves all day and lie down at night with-
out teaching them to pray; and thus let them 
go on until after a while we will see the fruit of
our neglect. Yes, see a son or daughter grown
to youth and maidenhood; it is not much use
then, to tell them to pray they will be ashamed
so to do, and if one does prevail on them it
will be much harder than it would have been,
if they had begun earlier; and ten chances to
one if parents succeed at all; it is written that
“children should obey their parents,” but do
parents always set an example worthy of imita-
tion; if they do children will seldom if ever be-
come disobedient. A whipping now and then
is not all that is required,it is not the best way
to rule over our children but be kind and firm,
truthful and honest with them, and they will
love and obey the parents. I have written
some of the scattered ideas of my mind, which
may not prove interesting, but they arc written
with a desire for good.
S. T. B.


