WHAT THEY SAY ABOUT UTAH.

	Everybody's talking of Utah! The "Mormon"
question is sorely agitating the public mind.
	The pulpit, the platform and the press are each
pouring forth volumes upon the subject until a
very ocean of bitterness, whose waves run moun-
tain high, seems to have flooded the hearts of
the people. Who is there to pour oil upon the
troubled waters? Who will speak a good word
for those "despised, outcast exiles?" Who dares
open their mouth, or even take up their pen in
defense of a few—a handful of people gathered
into the fastnesses of the Rocky Mountains for
protection against their foes; against the mobs
of a country which invites all nations to its
standard, where waves the glorious flag of liberty.
	Societies are being organized by different re-
ligious bodies, beseeching Congress, and his
Excellency the President of this great common-
wealth, to break down, root up and destroy this
"terribly iniquity," "twin brother of slavery,"
which "so afflicts this great nation." The "Mor-
mons are fast becoming a power in the land,"
ere long they will "creep into the Union," and
"Utah will become a State" and "sanction poly-
gamy." How dreadful it would be in their
eyes, for the "Mormons" to have a spot of earth
to dwell upon in peace; after they had sought
out and cultivated the desert, half-fed and half-
clad, exiled from their home and country,
banished with women and children, to an
unknown, unexplored region, where the Indians
and wild beasts held sole dominion.
	Woman, the "fair sex," whose benevolence
and charity, and whose sympathy for the un-
fortunate has ever been proverbial, are organized
into societies "to protest against the Mormons
and their institutions;" and they send abroad
their Testimonials, their Letters and Circulars,
setting forth the "degraded condition of Mormon
wives and Mormon children." Many who sit by
the hearthstone in their far off homes in igno-
rant innocence of this people, or their affairs, are
horrified to hear these sensational stories of
"Life Among the Mormons;" and all their in-
dignation is aroused to think such
corruption should exist, away off in
Utah, thousands of miles from them, and
they are ready to subscribe to any set of resolu-
tions, got up by those who carry on the crusade,
and to give of their means to help in the endeav-
or to suppress "Mormonism," thinking there-
by to do God service.
	Some of these wiseacres proclaim that "poly-
gamy destroys the home," it "sa[-]s the founda-
tion of social life," the basis of true govern-
ment and of prosperity and happiness. Does
the outside world know much about this? Can
they speak intelligently on this subject? A few
perhaps who are here know something by look-
ing on with jaundiced eyes, but there
are many who are in total darkness in

[Column 2]

regard to the matter. The "Mormons" might
boast if they would, of their happy homes in
the valleys of the mountains. Homes which
their own thrift and industry have created.
Even strangers who have come here prejudiced,
have acknowledged that "a spirit of peace
brooded over the place," such as they never felt
elsewhere. Does this bespeak contention and
strife in the family circle? No, it is due to the 
harmony of social relations and domestic institu-
tions, and the strong band of union which char-
acterizes the whole people, and is the outgrowth
of the very principles which the world condemn.
	Family life after the patriarchal order is
something approaching the sublime. It is
broad, liberal, expansive and gives the same
tone to the inmates of the home circle.
	The ladies engaged in the crusade against po-
lygamy characterize the condition of plural wife-
hood, concubinage, and speak of it, and of them,
to the world in the most reproachful terms pos-
sible. The Scripture says: "By their fruits ye
shall know them." In these mountain vales, 
and through the system of marriage the world
so loudly condemns, there has grown up a race
of the most perfectly developed young men and
women any country can produce. Healthy,
strong and vigorous in mind and body, with a 
knowledge of the principles of life and health,
and of their own mission upon the earth, which
no other class of people in the present day so
thoroughly comprehend.
	The fruits of this method of life will be more
apparent in the next generation than even in
this Social science will yet be glad to deal with
this subject, in the light of reason and common
sense.
	The women who are interested in this great
Latter-day work are laboring earnestly and faith-
fully in an organized capacity, to develop all the
talents which they possess mentally, morally
and spiritually; and to lay the foundation for the
prolongation of human life. They teach and in-
struct each other and their children; and ex-
pound doctrine and precept, and are in the best
sense of the word home missionaries. They are
more very much more sorry for their sisters in
the world, who are seeking to pull down and de-
stroy their institutions, and heap shame and ob-
loquy upon them and their offspring, than it is
possible for them to be for these "poor, deluded
Mormon women," and certainly the "Mormon"
sisters have no desire to injure or persecute
them, but would do them good all the day long,
and have, whenever brought in contact with
them, sought to maintain the most harmonious
relations, and perfect courtesy. In the mean-
time they do protest against the misrepresenta-
tions that are continually being sent abroad con-
cerning their domestic and social relations. The
Latter-day Saint women have no time, nor have
they the inclination to examine into the home
life of their Gentile neighbors, but occasionally,
some of these Gentile ladies, whose lives have
not been wholly free from sorrow, open their
hearts to a "Mormon" woman, perchance a plu-
ral wife, and portray the social system that is
known in Gotham as "modern civilization." It
is ill befitting this class of women to cry out
against "the great ulcer of Polygamy," especial-
ly when it is well known that women in this
Church accept celestial, or plural marriage as a
divine revelation from heaven, given to benfit
and elevate the human family, and receive it in
their hearts and in their lives as a sacred coven-
ant of marriage for time and for all eternity.
"Mormon" women embrace this principle with
the same purity of motive and sincerity of pur-
pose that they do the principle of baptism
for the remission of sins, or baptism for the
dead, or any other principle given to exalt the 
human family.


