THE NATIONAL SUFFRAGE ASSOCIA-
TION.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
held its thirteenth annual meeting in Tremont
Temple Boston. It has every reason to be
gratified and satisfied with its reception. The
distinguished women who have been at the
head of that association for many years, Mrs.
Stanton, Miss Anthony, Mrs. Joslyn Gage, Mrs.
Hooker, and Mrs. Blake, were sure to attract
interest and draw an audience. The younger
and less known women, Mrs. Merriwether, of
Memphis, Mrs. E. L. Saxon of New Orleans,
Mrs. May Wright Sewall of Indianapolis, Mrs.


McClellan Brown of Pennsylvania, and Mrs.
Belva Lockwood of Washington, were all for
the first time pleasantly introduced to a Boston
audience, while Rev. Olympia Brown was wel-
comed by a large circle of old friends, who will
always hold her in honor. Several New Eng-
land speakers united with them, so that they
had ample force for their six sessions. The
speeches were abundantly and cordially re-
ported by the Boston press, which did not fail
to report, also, the rich dresses of velvet, satin
and lace, and the distinguished appearance of
the different speakers,
	During the session a gold cross was presented
to Miss Anthony by the Citizen’s Suffrage As-
sociation, of Philadelphia, in a graceful speech
by Mrs. May Wright Sewall, who characterized
Miss Anthony as the “saint” to whom the
beautiful gift, with suitable inscriptions and
date, was especially due.
	Governor Long gave the association a recep-
tion at the State House. Mrs. May Wright
Sewall said it was the first time, any Suffrage
Association had been received by a Governor.
Mayor Prince received them at the City Hall.
Jordan & Marsh invited them to the rooms of
his work-women, which were so ample and com-
fortable as to elicit much praise. The working-
women danced, and sang, and recited to the
ladies, who in turn made them speeches.
	Mrs. Fenno Tudor also offered her elegant
parlors for a reception to the association. Mrs.
Johnson, of the Sherborn prison for women,
invited them to visit that institution, which
they did. The Bird Club invited Mrs. Stan-
ton, Miss Anthony, and others, to their regular
Saturday dinner. The invitation was accepted.
Eleven years ago, a similar invitation was ac-
cepted by Mrs. Stanton, from the same club.
Altogether the association was feted and feasted
in a manner to show that Woman Suffrage, at
least in Massachusetts; holds an honorable
place.—Ex.


