[COLUMN 2]
	Sister Snow said, I am pleased to behold so
many that I am favored to accept as fellow
laborers in this great cause. I respect the 
Priesthood as much as any one,  but if they speak
after us they can correct our errors if we make
any. We are all striving to do right. Obedi-
ence is our motto, there is no other safe ground
but perfect obedience, to every principle which
God has revealed. I consider this is a sacred
organization, and if we do not avail ourselves
of it , it will be our loss, I think it is im-
portant. Those duties that pertain to temporal
things are apt to engross our time, and we neg-
lect our eternal interests, and unless our minds
are stirred up continually we lose sight of them,
but by coming together our spirits gain strength.
We need spiritual food, and sometimes I fear 
our spirits witll be small, will not mature, and
will not be worthy to enter the presence of our
Father. We want to perform every duty for
He does not require more of us than we can
perform. When there is a duty to perform
the Lord gives us our own agency and then if 
we try to do it He will be sure to help us, but 
we must be willing, and this is a surety to suc-
cess, never neglect a duty, never leave a loop
hole for Satan to enter. The sisters are doing
a good work. We do not know what we would 
have been without these societies. Joseph
Smith said they always existed wherever 
there was a perfect organization of the Church,
and the Elect Ladies meant the Presidents of 
these Societies. The speaker advised the sis-
ters to read the revelation in the Doctrine and 
Covenants given to Emma Smith. We do not 
want to stop short of Celestial glory, for that 
is the only glory that secures to us our family
ties, that opens to us all our happiness, nothing 
should get between us and our religion, let the
spirit govern us instead of the flesh, there is no
dividing our interests, and to attain Celestial
glory will take all our powers, let us be up and 
doing; it will be our good works that will 
save us at last; let us try to encourage and 
save those that tare on the back ground and 
bring them back into the fold. Let us never
be discouraged and we will never fail. We
want to be as near like our heavenly Father
as we can. Let us have faith for our families
when they are sick, and let every mother teach
her children the principle of faith, or else they
cannot stand in the day of trail. If any of us 
lack faith in God let us seek to the Lord dil-
igently, "that we may receive of his holy Spirit."
I feel that we do not live as near him as we
should. What a comfort to know that our 
Heavenly Father has passed through the same 
as we are now passing through and can feel for 
us. We should be humble and prayerful our 
hearts lifted up to God continually and it will
soon be second nature. I feel that I love you 
all, and hope to meet you all and not one lost
is my desire, Amen.
	Pres. M. T. Smoot then introduced to the as-
sembly Sister E. S. Taylor, from Salt Lake
City, President of the Young Ladies Mutual
Improvement Associations in all the Church. 
Sister Taylor said, I feel that we are not 
strangers for I have been associated with these
societies for 14 years-but it is the same faces
that generally meet us. The faithful few.
We do not lose anything by attending these
meetings, we feel our spiritual strenght re-
newed we learn a great deal. We feel that we 
have something worth living for. We cannot
attain to Celestial glory in ingnorance. I wish
to meet wit hthe Young Ladies of Provo this 
evening and hope to see as many as can come
out, etc. 
	Sister John endorsed all that had been said 
by the speakers this morning, and thought that 
we should all try and have faith in God in this 
trying time; etc. Prest. Sister Smoot said, we 
will now close our meeting and come together 
again this afternoon. I feel and suppose you
[COLUMN 3]
all do, that it is good to be here. Benediction
by Sister John. Afternoon, 1 P.M. Confer-
ence commenced by the usual exercises, after 
which Sister Snow gave the sisters some special
instructions. Bishop Johnson followed with a 
few remarks, endorsed every word of the the
remarks to-day, it is the word ofhte Lord to 
us. Sisters Holden and Tanner made a few
good remarks, followed by Mother Duke. Sis-
ter Zina Y. Williams spoke of the postponement
of the Primary Jubilee on account of so much
sickness in Provo at the present time, said the 
Primaries were doing well. There were 2227
names of the children put in the Jubilee box.
Ma Smoot said we are all engaged as we 
should be, let us purge our hearts that we be
not barren or unfruitful, let us lay aside the 
cares of the world and come to these meetings
and enjoy the full fruition of the Spirit of the
Lord. Let us live every day that we may be 
ready if called to-morrow. When we contem-
plate what we should be to enter our Father's
Kingdom, I fear we shall be lacking in many
things. I feel that we are blessed to-day in
the instructions we have received, I extend an 
invitaion to all the Bishops of the County to 
meet with us, we should be pleased to have 
them do so. It was proposed that the Jubilee 
box be kept by the President of the Society
and left by her in car in care of her successors in of-
fice, and a vote of the Conference was taken to
that effect. Conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Bishop Johnson. 
