OLD FOLKS’ PARTY.

On June the first, in commemoration of the
birthday of our departed President, Brigham
Young, a party of aged persons sat down to a
sumptuous repast in the City Hall at Spanish
Fork, which had been kindly furnished for the
occasion. The brass band was in attendance,
and at 2 p. m. called together the invited
guests. It was a peculiarly interesting sight,
as the aged ones, some very weak and tottering,


wended their way on foot, or were conveyed in
vehicles, assembled at the place of meeting, all
well and suitably attired, not one bearing
marks of poverty, their faces aglow with se-
rene joy and peace. Many of the number were
over eighty, and some verging on ninety years
of age.
	Bishop George D. Snell and Counselors were
present. After the usual opening exercises,
Patriarch Zebedee Coltrin addressed the assem-
bly, and in a most touching manner related
many incidents connected with the life of our
late Prophet, from his personal acquaintance
with him, dating back fifty years. Several of
the aged brethren spoke testifying to the mis-
sion of Brigham Young as the leader of this
people for over thirty years, and of their
knowledge of the truth of the Gospel, and of
the blessings which have accrued to us as a 
people through those labors. Sister Mary Isaacs
sang, in a very effective manner, "Will you
love me when I'm old." Some verses written
for the occasion by Mrs. Hannali Coraby
were then read. The brass band discoursed
sweet music at intervals during the exercises.
	At five p. m. the company were seated at
three long tables, on which was tastefully
spread an abundance and variety of creature
comforts; the tables were ornamented with beau-
tiful vases of flowers. It is estimated that
about two hundred and fifty enjoyed the feast,
and an abundance was left to distribute to the
sick and those not able to attend. The eve-
ning was spent in dancing. Through the whole
of the proceedings a most delightful spirit of the
Gospel.
	The affair was wholly designed and got up
by the Relief Society, four committees of sis-
ters having been appointed to carry out the
arrangements. The people liberally responded
with means to assist the enterprise. All verg-
ing into and over seventy were invited, it being
especially a party for the old folks.
