BY HANNAH T. KING.

		"Can that man be dead
	Whose spiritual influence is upon his kind?
	He ever lives in glory, and his speaking dust
	Has more of life than half his breathing moulds."
		L. E. L.
	I feel it would be casting insidious reflections
upon my readers, were I to attempt an apology
for a few more words upon the great man just
departed; bear with me, then, while I give my
pen-ultimate upon this engrossing subject.
	The greatest among the greatest nations of
the earth are speaking with one voice in rich
appreciation of his transcendent abilities and
his pure patriotism; and every pulpit, from
Canon Farar in Westminster Abbey, and
throughout London and the Provinces, and
foreign countries also, have each and all sent
forth the voice of sympathy and eulogy, regret
and commendation of him, who was a Palla-
dium in the Cabinet of England; and sister
nations felt the power and reflection of his
genius! He was ever a devoted servant to his
sovereign and his country, "Sans peur et sans
reproche." He worked through long years of
mental travail, until he had attained the goal
his prophetic eye had seen afar off, even in his
early youth—until he stood at the right hand

[Column 2]

of the sovereign, her acknowledged and appre-
ciated friend and counselor—the restorer of the
nation to the proud rank from which she had
fallen by the false policy of those who had pre-
ceded him. Bismarck, the great, the fastidious, 
the exacting Bismarck, took him into his heart
and gave him in that a loving and eternal
niche. Children loved him, women were his
devoted and efficient friends, and a mighty
galaxy of great, grand men were his brothers
on the stage of action; he had the art of mak-
ing "even his enemies to be at peace" with him.
In his illness and his death only one feeling
was apparent, which was made up of love, ad-
miration, sympathy and regret! When the
curtain fell on the grand actor, the silence of
grief alone spoke the absorbing feeling of all;
every tongue was silent, or spoke only the
words of eulogy and love!
	Does not this tell of nobility of soul? May
not we, as a people, with our boasted superiority
of religion over the world, take a lesson of how
to treat our great and noble dead, whose lives
were spent in our service?
	The Queen and royal family of England
must have risen in the estimation of all think-
ing people, in seeing them become "kith and
kin" in a loving brotherhood and sisterhood
with a mourning nation, showing it forth by
every demonstration of love and respect during
the sickness of the treasured one, and then
reverently following the remains to their hum-
ble resting place, and laying with their own
hands the wreaths of choicest flowers, inscribed
with each one's own handwriting; even the
Queen employed no secretary, but with her
own hand wrote on the card attached to the
wreath she presented words that her own heart
dictated. Such deeds are worthy of all imita-
tion.
	The country and the Queen were desirous
he should rest in Westminster Abbey, but when
the Will was opened it was found expressly or-
dered that he should be interred at his beloved
Hughenden, by the side of his wife, to whom
he had ever been most devotedly attached;
and here it would be apropos to allude to one
ever prominent feature in his character, it is
conspicuous in all his writings; I refer to his
chaste, almost reverent appreciation of woman!
He attributes to her that unseen, unsleeping
influence that makes her a power, often even
behind the throne; and he ever portrays this
power for good, never for evil! and even her
foibles and frivolities he turns to account, in-
corporating them in the Mosaic, and making
them elaborate and beautify it. In no instance
do you ever meet sarcasm or inuendo; he
was also a stauuch advocate for woman suf-
frage.
	It was through his powerful voice and in-
fluence, that the country was redeemed from its
imbecile vandalism in omitting to raise a public
monument to the author of "Childe Harold's
Pilgrimage"—in 1875 Lord Beaconsfield stood
forth as the determined advocate of a public
monument for Lord Byron—it was commenced
forthwith, and the Queen at once offered a site
for it in Hamilton Gardens, which is an enclo-
sure railed in within Hyde Park, London, thus
endorsing the movement and conjointly with
him removing the just reproach of foreigners
in regard to the apparent neglect of Byron's
memory by his own countrymen. And this
reminds us of a long and most eloquent speech
of Mr. Gladstone in the House of Lords, sec-
onding the motion of Earl Granville that an
address be presented to Her Majesty, entreat-
ing her to give directions for a monument to be
erected in Westminster Abbey to the Earl of
Beaconsfield. This address is so admirable it
should be printed in pamphlet form. Sir Staf-
ford Northcote, who responded to it, remarked
regarding it: "We feel that a monument of a
higher character than any that could be carved
in marble has been already erected to Lord

[Column 3]

Beaconsfield in the speech we have heard this
evening! That speech has been nobly ex-
pressed and still more it has been nobly con-
ceived!"

	Here follow a few of the floral testimonials
placed on the coffin of the one so mourned:
	"The Queen had testified her regret and es-
teem in many ways, and among others by send-
ing a wreath of wild flowers, primroses plucked
in the Isle of Wight, and such as he delighted
to see blooming on the grassy banks of Hughen-
den Park. On a card affixed to this wreath
was written, in her Majesty's own handwriting, 
'His favorite flowers; from Osborne, a tribute
of affection and regret from Queen Victoria.'
The wreath was placed on the coffin by Prince
Leopold on behalf of her Majesty. The flow-
ers had been gathered that morning in the
beautiful lawns of Osborne, and the wreath
was sent by special messenger. It seemed
wasteful to condemn these fair and perishable
flowers to fade unseen in the dark vault, and
after the burial they were brought out again
and hung upon the railings of the tomb, where
all the evening throngs of country people col-
lected and had the mournful satisfaction of
contemplating the Queen's last gift to her de-
voted servant. Her Majesty gave also another
wreath, but this one of everlasting flowers and
bay leaves. On the ends of the white satin
bow with which this wreath was tied were a 
few words embroidered in gold—on one, 'From
Queen Victoria;' on the other, 'A mark of
true affection, friendship and regret.' The
Prince of Wales was personally present at the
funeral, and placed with his own hands upon
the coffin two wreaths of white roses and ca-
melias, saying as he did so, 'This is from my-
self, and this from the Princess of Wales.' The
Prince of Wales' wreath bore the inscription,
'From his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales
—a tribute of friendship and affection,' and
the writing was that of his Royal Highness.
The Duke of Connaught, who strode beside his
Royal brothers in the procession, laid also, just
before it started, a wreath upon the coffin from
the Duchess of Connaught, on which a few
violets showed their scented petals, emblemati-
cal of the soul, among white camelias and eu-
charis. It bore the inscription, 'A token of
regret and respect from her Royal Highness
the Duchess of Connaught.' Prince Leopold
offered on his own part a wreath bearing the
words, 'A mark of friendship and respect from
Leopold.' Also upon the coffin there was laid
an immortelle of pure white flowers, inscribed,
'A mark of respect from Beatrice.' Other
wreaths from the royal family were—one which
bore a card on which the words were written, 
'A mark of esteem from her Royal Highness
the Duchess of Cambridge;' a wreath from
Prince and Princess Christian, inscribed, 'A
token of deepest respect, gratitude and affec-
tion from Prince and Princess Christian;' from
the Duke and Duchess of Teck, marked, 'A
last tribute of affection, regret and admiration
from Mary Adelaide.' The Baron von Pawel
Rammingen attended the funeral and brought
a wreath from the Princess Frederica."


THE Khedive of Egypt is interested in the
education of women, and is about to build in
Cairo, at his own expense, a school for the in-
struction of girls of the higher classes.
	"CONKLING and Platt have behaved like two
boys who refused to go to a picnic, becanse
their superiors thought it best for one to hold
the lines and the other the whip. They wanted
to go 'dreadfully,' but wanted worse to be
stubborn." The editor of "The Colorado Ante-
lope" says, "This fight is nothing to us, but we
cannot help thinking that if women ever be-
have as ridiculously, there is one consolation—
men have set us a variety of examples, to say
the least."


