CONTINUED.

	She told Mr. Wyvil of Jesse's letter and of
her answer. She prayed fervently and stead-
fastly that she might be enabled to do her
duty and trust in God that all might turn out
for her best good. She consoled herself by
thinking that if Jesse drank, as she was told
he did, life with him would not be as happy as
it had been, and no doubt she was better off
where she was.
	Minnie went to school that winter, and the
following spring secured a position as teacher
in a district school. As she lived some dis-
tance from the schoolhouse, and her health
was poor, she made arrangements to board with
some friends, in order to avoid the long walk.
	One morning, while preparing for school, a
little girl came in and said that a gentlemau
was waiting at Brother Jones' to see her. The
child was so mysterious and excited that Min-
nie began to suspect who the stranger might
be, and went chasing across lots at a very un-
dignified pace, to be caught in the arms of her 
own father. They were both so delighted to
meet that it took some time to calm their ex-
citement. When at last she thought of her
school and proposed to going to attend to it, her
father bade her dismiss it. He had plenty of
means, he said, and his children were all he
had to care for now; he would provide for
them, and the should not work for a living.
His business had prospered, and they should,
at last, be repaid for their long years of priva-
tion, and never again, while he was blessed with
means, should they want for anything necessary
for their comfort or happiness.
	Minnie felt under obligations to fill her en-
gagement; but he would not listen to it, so she
gladly complied with his commands, and going
to the schoolhouse called the pupils together and
dismissed them. The children gathered around
her, many of them weeping, and expressed
their regret at losing her for a teacher, for they
all loved her. Minnie herself could not regret
it, for teaching was trying work, both to her
health and patience; but in the midst of  her
rejoicing, she could not forget that there was a
skeleton at the feast. It was the position of
her mother as the wife of another man. It
was deep grief to her that her mother could
not share in her rejoicing. From the school-
house she went home to break the news to 
mother, and bring Nettie to see her father. It
was a strange day for Jesse- to be near Mary
after so many years' separation, and know that
she was not his. To meet her as the wife of
another, and know that he must not fold her
in his arms as he so longed to do; but he must
be content to see his children. He had thought
he could not bear it, but his longing for his
little girls overcame every other feeling, and
for their sakes he came.
	Poor Mary could no longer conceal her feel-
ings; Jesse had come and she must not see
him; he was near her and not for her. Oh,
how dreadful to her in her hour of trial seemed
the ties that bound her. She had never been
estranged in her feelings. She had accepted
the inevitable, and given him up because she
must, but her love for him was as deep as ever.
Now she was bound to another, and an insur-
passable barrier lay between them. Her forti-
tude deserted her, and she could only weep
and deplore the fate that separated them.
How small and mean then seemed all the con-
siderations that had influenced her to marry
again. She would have waited and striven to
get along some way, if she had only known he
would come to her. "She might have known
it!' SHe might have known that he did not
get her letter! that he was jealous and angry
when he wrote, but he would feel better when
he received her letter. She should have waited
and shown him there was no foundation for his
jealousy; but she had not done so, she had
taken a course to prove to him that his suspic-
ions were correct. "She had lost his confi-
dence, and he would always think meanly of
her." All the long day she tortured herself
with these reflections. It mattered not what
any one thought, she was broken down and her
feelings were beyond control.
	Jesse brought the girls home at night in a
carriage. He had taken them shopping, and
bought them a great many nice things, besides
the presents of silks and jewelry he had brought
from California.
	Never before had Minnie known what it was
to spend money without stint, without calculat-
ing just what was need and how much it would
cost. It was a happy day after all; for what
young heart, with so much to brighten it, can
long remain in the shadow. She was not self-
ish in her demands, every one was thought of and
remembered with a share of her good fortune. 
Her mother was generously provided for, and
none of James Wyvil's family were neglected
or forgotten. She also made nice presents to
some of her associates. It was a day long to
be remembered by Jesse's thoughtful kind-
ness and generosity. She had, to, a source
of happiness in the welfare of her children, for
what mother can fail to be pleased when her
children are made comfortable and happy. 
	He called to see her, and talked with her on 
indifferent subjects, giving her his money to
take care of with the oldtime trustfulness, for
following days were a round of holidays for
the children. Rides, theatres, dressmakers, 
and such enjoyments as they had always been
limited in, for they had never, since leaving
Nauvoo had an opportunity of sharing much
but the cares and responsibilities of life, with-
out much pastime or amusement.
To be continued.


