		LOGAN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:—We have failed to re-
port ourselves to the Exponent in the past,
yet we have not been idlers, and will try in the
future to keep you better posted in regard to
our progress.
Our brethren have recently overlooked and
reorganized the Relief Society of Logan.
Cache Valley Relief Society has now a Stake
President in the person of Libbie Benson and
her Counselors are Sisters Louisa Benson and
Lucy Cardon; Sister Caine Sec’y.
A few days since a pleasing event in the
shape of a surprise party gotten up by sister
Ricks, then President of the first Ward now
Pres. of the Logan Relief Societies, and other
sisters, in honor of our dear Sister Libbie Ben-
son, took place in the Logan Hall. Bishop
Lewis, Brother Thos. Cordon some others and
a (almost) host of ladies were present; an
elegant pic nic was provided. A pretty Au-
tograph Album and a chain for the neck were
presented by Sister Ricks from the sisters of
the first Ward as a small token of esteem.
speeches were short but full of brightness.
  Instructed by Bishop Prestou and his Coun-
selors assisted by the Bishops, Sister Benson
has organized Primaries in some of the wards
in Logan of which you will hear more anon.
I am yours very respectfully,
E. L. Crowther, Ass’t.Sec’y.
RICHMOND.
 Minutes of the Annual Meeting of the Pri-
mary Association held June 1st, 1881. Pres.
H. Brown presiding, singing “Marching to the
Temple,” prayer by Counselor Maria Monson,
singing “Always Cheerful.” Minutes of the
last annual meeting read and aproved, yearly
report read and accepted, after which our pro-
gramme was announced for the occasion, which
consisted, of a choice selection of songs, recita-
tions, select readings, compositions &c. Which
were got up and promptly given, and that won
applause from the parents and all who attended.
It being our late President Young’s Birthday
Sister M. Monson read an article composed for
the occasion, on his faithful labors in leading
his people as did Moses of old.“ The workiwng
bee” was sung by Pres.H. Brown,after which a
very touching piece entitled “My Mother’s last
kiss” was read by Counselor Maggie Thomp-
son, appropriate remarks and instructions were
given by some of the parents. Singing “Never
be late.” Meeting adjourned until June 1st,
1882. Benediction by Pres. Hannah Brown.
	ELIZABETH MERRILL, Asst., Sec’y.
Annual Report of the Primary Association
from June 1st. 1880, to June 1st. 1881.
Amount remaining in treasury from previous
year $3,60; received in donations from members,
$2,48; on proceeds of l quilt,pieced by children,
$3,00. Disbursements, July 22nd, 1880, mat-
erials for making a banner, $1,45; Sept. 9th,
1 blank book 20, cts, Oct. 12th, calico for
quilt, $1,16; Nov. 9th, writing paper, 20.
Total amount received $9,08; total amount
expended, $3,01; total amount remaining in
treasury, $6.07.

