	JUAB STAKE, P. A. 

	Report of the Primary Association of Juab
Stake of Zion. The Primary Associations of
the South and North wards of Nephi held their
second annual meeting May 30th, 1881. Stake
President Mrs. Hannah Grover presiding.
The stand was occupied by the officers of the
Relief Society and Primary Associations, also
some of the brethren. After the usual open-
ing exercises, Sister Grover made a few appro-
priate remarks. The remaining time was taken 
up by songs, recitations, dialogues and a select
reading which were rendered in a very credit-
able manner. Under the able presidency of
Sister S. R. Andrews of the South Ward and
Sister Caroline Bigler of the North Ward, the 
children are visibly progressing.
	The Mona Primary Association held their
anniversary meeting June 1st, 1881. The 
meeting was conducted by Sister Eleanor Som-
erville, Pres. of the P. A. singing "Little
birdie in the tree," prayer by Brother W. Mc-
Conkie, singing, "God is always near me;"
which was followed by songs, recitations and 
dialogues from the members. Brother Thos
Robertson from Ordervile addressed a few en-
couraging remarks to the children; after which
Bishop Hawes spoke for a short time, also Sis-
ters H. Grover and M. A. Cazier from Nephi.
Candy, raisins and nuts, were then handed 
round to the children. The entertainment
showed the lively interest the little ones take in 
their Association. All enjoyed themselves and 
manifested a good spirit.
	The annual meeting of hte Levan Primary
Association was held May 28th 1881, commenc-
ing at 10 o'clock A.M. President E. Gardner
presiding. Bishop Aaggard, and Counselors,
the officers of the Relief Society were present, 
and a number of their parents. The meeting
opened by singing "Gladly meeting kindly
greeting," and "Open the door for the child-
ren." The President made a few remarks and 
gave a verbal report of the Association. The 
exercises of the meeting consisted of songs, re-
citations, dialogues and questions on the ten 
commandments. Bishop Aagard encouaged
the children to live pure and holy lives, said
he was pleased to see the progress made, and
commended them for the good order and  their 
willingness to perform their parts.
	Prizes were then awarded. An entertain-
	ent was given by the children in the evening
the proceeds of which went for the benefit of 
the Association.
	ADDIE SCHOFIELD, Stake Sec'y

