SALT LAKE CITY.

	The Conference of Relief Societies of Salt
Lake Stake was held June 17, 1881, in the
14th, Ward Assembly Rooms. Mrs. M. Isa-
bella Horne presiding. Opening by singing,
"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation,"

[Column 2]
Prayer by Mrs. Elizabeth Howard. Singing
"Let Zion in her beauty rise &c."
	Mrs. Horne made some opening remarks,
and expressed her intense interest in the work
of the Latter-days.
	1st Ward reported by Mrs. Margaret Steele,
2nd Ward, Sarah Mac Gregor, 3d Mrs. Eliza-
beth Weiler, 4th, Mrs. Jane Smith, 6th Mrs.
R. Fulmer, 7th, Mrs. Alice Needham, 8th, Mrs.
Barney, 9th Mrs. Sarah Groo, 10th, Mrs. Jane
Earle, 12th, Mrs. Julia Druce, 13th, Mrs. B.
W. Smith, 14th, Mrs. M. A. Wilcox, 15th,
Mrs. R. Jones, 16th, Mrs. Diana Reid, 18th,
Mrs. Ellen Barton, 19th, Mrs. Whipple, 20th,
Mrs. Miller. After hearing from these branches
of the organization the meeting closed by sing-
ing Doxology, Benediction by Mrs. B. W.
Smith, adjournment until 2 P. M.
	Afternoon Session; meeting opened by sing-
ing "How firm a foundation ye saints of the
Lord" Prayer by Mrs. E. S. Taylor, singing
"O my Father thou that dwellest" &c. Mrs.
Spencer reported North Jordan Ward, Sugar
House Ward, Mrs. S. B. Gibson, Union Mrs.
Griffiths, Pleasant Green, Mrs. Elvira Hirst.
Brighton Mrs. M. A. Hazon. Mrs. Horne
after giving some special instructions to Presi-
dents said, the Lord has called his handmaidens
to help in this great work, and it is worth liv-
ing for and working for, but we are too much
engrossed in looking after the things of the
world but as Latter-day Saints it is not the
most important matter, it would be better for
us to look after the kingdom of God and its
righteousness and everything else will be added
unto us. We realize the more we come together
the more we will love each other and we will
get stirred up to come and meet together, and
every time we come to meeting we feel warmed
up and think we will try and perform this duty.
I understand many in the country are raising
silk and many making an effort in gathering
wheat. Let us be wise in these things. The
Lord blest Sister Zina and I when we were
traveling South. There were showers of rain so
that many brethren were able to hitch up their
teams and come with their families to meeting,
which they could not have done if it had not
rained. We hope all the sisters will respond
to making the 4th of July a day of rejoicing.
We want all our sisters who are citizens and
have the right to vote to do so and not be care-
less about this privilege. Let us appreciate
this blessing which we have had put into our
hands.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor spoke of the Conference at
Provo which she had recently attended, urged
the Sisters to attend the Conference and the
Saturday semi-monthly meetings. We must
work for our exaltation ourselves. There are
many things for us to do, we have been coun-
seled in regard to storing up wheat, let us en-
deavor to carry this out, and also let me say to
the sisters to take an interest in the coming 4th,
let us help to make a rousing good time, and
let us show our patriotism and willingness to
help the brethren in this celebration. Spoke
of the healing power of God and told some of
her experience.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball, I have been pleased at
hearing the sentiments expressed here to-day, I
was gratified to hear Sister Taylor speak as she
did about the coming celebration, we ought to
read and get an understanding of the principles
of government and become familiar with the
Declaration of Independence, for our own
benefit and the benefit of our children.	*	*	*
*	Let us get ready and have rousing good 4th;
I like the barbacue, I like to have company in
eating.
	I have just returned from a visit to Sanpete
we had large congregations everywhere we
went, it caused me to feel very humble and to
depend altogether on the Spirit of God.	*	*	*
The way I understand life is to do all the good
we can and make all as happy as we can.

[Column 3]
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said, I believe I could
speak better if this house was full. I have just
returned from a visit to Grantsville, where we
attended Conference and we had large congre-
gations and a very good turn out of the breth-
ren at every meeting.
	Dr. E. B. Ferguson, I rejoice in meeting
with you all this afternoon and in bearing tes-
timony to the work of God. I hope we will
not get careless and indifferent concerning
that which is for our good. I have read with
surprise the letter which has been referred to,
written by a lady in the United States declin-
ing public work because she was a wife and
mother—We, who are in this kingdom feel that
it is because we are wives and mothers that our
hearts and sympathies go out to all humanity
and we seek to bless and benefit others besides
those of our own household. It is as wives and
mothers that we desire to stand side by side
with our husbands and sons in building up this
kingdom. If we shrink from our duty who
will take it up? Let us take hold of this com-
ing celebration, and show the government that
we understand and appreciate our privileges by
making it a success. The time may come when
we may be called to celebrate a woman's day
of independence, and as women of this Repub-
lic let us be alive to our duties whatever our
enemies may have to say against us. I pray
that we may be united, and that we may seek
to be fed at the fountain of all truth—our
spirits require to be fed with food that will
promote our eternal growth—the body could
not exist long upon one meal of food a week,
neither can our souls exist without spiritual
nourishment. Those who attend their meetings
punctually will be fed and will grow in know-
ledge and usefulness. Mrs. E. C. S. Clawson Pres.
of the Primary Associations of Stake, spoke of
the Children's Conference to be held the next
morning in the Assembly Hall and invited
children parents and grandparents to come &c.
	Mrs. Rachel R. Grant spoke of the good
time she had in St. George last winter.
Thought we should interest ourselves in getting
up our records, we have many principles in
the Gospel. We will feel very happy when
we meet with our loved ones who are gone, and
let us so live that we can be happy and joyful
all the time. The Spirit of God will bring us
joy and peace all the day long. Felt that the
Primary Associations would do much good,
and realized we should set our children a good
example, our experience will be profitable to
the rising generation, all may not have to pass
through the same. We should know very
little about the hereafter only for the Gospel.
Our young people would be much more happy
and enjoy themselves better if they had the
spirit of the Gospel in their hearts.
	Mrs. Horne was much pleased with the spirit
of the Conference and said, I do not know of
any family having suffered by the sisters being
called to fill an office. The Lord will always
open a way for us to fill our positions if we op-
en our hearts and do aM the good we can for
the good of all the community. Spoke against
the sisters sendiug their children to outside
schools, parents would be held responsible, ad-
vised mothers to know where their children
were at night and have them retire early;
hoped the Lord would enlighten the minds of
of his handmaidens, said she felt a care over
the sisters of this Stake.
	Mrs. Kimball made a few remarks on the
subject of hired help. thought something could
be done that would materially benefit young
girls who needed employment and those who
employed them &c.
	Conference adjourned to September 16, sang
"Lord dismiss us &c." Benediction by Mrs.
M. P. Young.
					E. HOWARD, Sec'y.


