AN EYE WITNESS' NARRATIVE.

 “Mrs. Sarah E. White, the lady in charge of
the waiting room at the Baltimore depot, was
the person who first reached the President after
he was shot, and saw the whole thing.  The
man came in from this door, pointing to a door
at the east, entering the ladies' room from the
main waiting room, Just as the President entered
the middle door from B street, when he ap-
proached within five feet of the President and
fired, aiming as though at the President's heart
and missed him.  The President did not seem
to notice him, but walked right on past the
man; he fired again and the President fell.  He
fell right at the turn of the second row of seats.
I was the first to reach him and lifted up his
head.  The janitor rushed in and called police!
I held him till some men came and lifted him
up; he did not speak to me or anybody until a
young man, who I think was his son, came.
After he had vomited I think he said something
to him when he was lifted upon a mattress.  No
words passed between them; the man walked
deliberately out of the centre door, where some-
body headed him off.  He then turned and
walked back the way he came, and was seized at
the door by a policeman.  I have seen the man
once or twice before.  One time in particular I
noticed him a few days ago.  He promenaded
up and down just as he did to-day, wiping his
face and apparently excited.  I thought he was
waiting for some friends.  This morning he
waited an hour, walking up aud down.  There
were few people in the room when the shot was
fired.  After the shooting, the President was
laid on the floor until a mattress could be pro-
cured, and at once was removed to a room in
the second story of the depot.  Mr. Garfield’s
son was with him at the time, and as his father
fell, he burst into a paroxysm of tears.  Secre-
tary Blaine, Hunt and Lincoln and Postmaster-

General James, were all at the depot at the time.
The waiting room was crowded at the time, both
with northern and southern passengers, and
when the shot was fired, Mr. J. W. Wheeler, of
Hampton, Virginia, was seated with some ladies
close to the President. He heard the whizzing
of the ball uncomfortably near him.  He states
at the time of the first shot the assassin was not
over seven to eight feet from him.  Mr. Garfield,
when he fell, turned deadly pale, and soon after
he was carried up  stairs, he vomited.  Guitteau
was locked up and physicians were summoned.
On the arrival of the prisoner at headquarters
he was at once locked up, and word having been
sent in every direction for physicians. Dr. Town-
send, health officer, responded, and subsequently
Dr. J. H. Baxter, of the army, Dr. Tell, of the
navy, and Dr. D. W. Bliss responded.  Guitteau
did not throw the pistol away, but had it in his
hand when arrested.  The crowd outside the de-
pot seemed at a loss whether to go to the police
headquarters and lynch the party, but about
9:45 word came out of the room in which the
President had been taken that the wound on
the body was not necessarily fatal, but that the
ball could not be probed for until after, and that
one ball had wounded him in the right arm just
below the shoulder.  This seemed to relieve the
crowd somewhat, and while it became more and
more dense it quietly awaited further news. At
about 10 o’clock p. m. the chief of police, having
consulted with Sherman, ordered out a large de-
tail of the police force.  The police ambulance
was driven to the front door of the depot.  The
President appeared to be sleeping, and was
deathly pale, but just as he was placed in the
ambulance he opened his eyes.  The streets in
the neighborhood of the depot were lined with
people, everybody was very quiet.”


