IN MEMORIAM

"Then fell upon the house a sudden gloom,
  A shadow on those features fair and thin;
	And softly from that hushed and darkened room,
	Twon angles issued where but one went in."
								-LONGFELLOW.
	The announcement of the death of Mrs. Ann
Maria Whitney Hall, which took place June 27,
1881, will be read with sorrow by a host of friends
of former days, as well as many who have been
intimately associated with her in later years.
Mrs. Hall was widely known in this city and vi-
cinity, and was highly respected by all. She
was especially endeared to her friends and rela-
tives on account of the many attractive and ge-
nial qualities of her noble heart, which emin-
ently fltted her to shine in the social and domes-
tic circle. In her younger life she was what the
world would term a magnetic woman drawing
all hearts towards her instinctively. Although
perhaps not designated as beautiful as some wo-
men, yet possessing in a wonderful degree the
womanly power of fascination which is always
so charming. A pleasing address and melodious
voice qualified her to entertain easily and grace-
fully; and an innate refinement of manner won
all hearts, and many of the sterner sex bowed at
her shrine. The lady, who is the subject of this
sketch, was born in an early day in the history
of this Church October 1st, 1836, in Kirtland,
Ohio. Her parents were Bishop Newel K. (de-
ceased) and Elizabeth Ann Whitney. While
she was yet a babe they left Kirtland to go up to
Missouri, but hearing while upon the way that
the Saints had been driven from their homes,
stopped in Carleton, Illinois, until Commerce
(afterwards Nauvoo) was settled, when they re-
paired thither. In the beautiful city of Nauvoo,
Ann Maria passed her childhood. At the time
of the exodus, when she was nine years old or
not quite ten, the writer remembers well her
cheerful, happy manner and her kind attentions
to parents, brothers and sisters, and her affabili-
ty to all those in any way connected with the
family.
	She was married May 2d, 1866, to Erastus F.
Hall, the ceremony being performed by Presi-
dent Heber C, Kimball. Mrs. Hall has been
the mother of five children, four sons and one
daughter; three of them have died in infancy;
two remain, one fourteen and the other six years
old, and they mourn as kind and indulgent a
mother as ever lived. Her devotion as a wife
and mother of a family was most exemplary,
and her tender watchfulness of her aged mother,
to whom she was fondly attached, approached
the sublime.

	Mrs. Hall died from puerperal fever nine days
after her confinement.
	The funeral was held at the residence in the
17th Ward, and was attended by many of the
dear friends of former days. The services were
conducted by Bishop John Tingey, and were
opened by singing, “O, my Father, thou that
dwellest.” Prayer by the Bishop. Singing,
“Sister, thou wast mild and lovely.” Remarks
by Dr. Doremus, Counselor D.H. Wells, Presid-
ing Bishop Edward Hunter and Elder Joseph
C. Kingsbury. The last two very old friends re-
ferred to the friendship and associations of for-
mer days. Services closed by singing, “Fare-
well all earthly honors.” Benediction by Elder 
Joseph C. Kingsbury.
	The coffin was literally covered with exquisite
flowers, of which Mrs. Hall was a passionate ad-
mirer. The remains were followed to the ceme-
tery by a large number of sorrowing relatives
and friends, where the last sacred rites were
performed. Prayer was offered and the grave
dedicated by Counselor D. H. Wells. May our
Heavenly Father bless the bereaved family, the
loving husband, the dear lonely children, the
aged mother and all who mourn their dear friend
and sister. The writer was intimately acquaint-
ed and fondly attached to Mrs. Hall, and feels
that she has truly parted with a sister.

“What a world were this,
How unendurable its weight, if they
Whom death had sunder'd, did not meet again."
								—Southey.
								E. B. W.


