SAN JUAN RIVER NEW MEXICO, MAY 27, 1881.

DEAR EXPONENT. It is sometime since I wrote
last and as this is my third place of residence, I
fancy some of our friends will think we are seek-
ing a country to suit us, more than trying to fill
a mission. I will say every move has been ac-
cording to the wishes of those whose authority
we are pleased to acknowledge as the word of the
Lord to us, and I trust we may not forget why
we are here and for what purpose we came.
There are only eight families at preseut located
here, but we hope to be reinforced the coming
fall. Our townsite is less than a mile from the
river and there are ample facilities for making a
thriving settlement. As we have no Relief or-
Improvement Association we will welcome with
joy more settlers so that we may be blest with
such institutions. I for one, think I could ap-
preciate them, being deprived of the same for
nearly four years. We have a day, and Sabbath
School and meeting every Sunday afternoon.
We are located six miles above Bowen's ferry
and ten miles below the town of Farmington. I
understand it is near a hundred miles to the
nearest Mormon settlement. We have a few
Gentile neighbors who patronize our school as it
is the only one near the vicinity. The railroad
is within sixty miles of us, and we hope to be
visited during the summer by some of the Saints
from Utah. We are only a few sisters here but
we take three numbers of the EXPONENT, and
feel as if we could not do without it for any price.
Our husbands enjoy the reading of it quite as
much as we do, though there are some of our
brethren (I am sorry to say) speak of the paper
as if its whole mission was to depreciate men and
place women at the head, while it deplores the
idea of wives being subject to their husbands at
all. To such I would say please read our paper
and you will find you are mistaken. Do not
condemn it simply bacause you have read, or
perhaps heard now and then an article in which
the writer has been somewhat enthusiastic over
"woman's rights." If you refuse to do this but
ignorantly judge of its contents I must say you
are somewhat like the enemies of the Saints in
general who are unwilling to investigate our
doctrines lest they find good in them. In the
above I have no reference to any one in particu-
lar but to all who are not thoroughly acquainted
with the merits of the EXPONENT. If I have
been tiresome please forgive, and remember the
writer is only,
