A SONG OF SUMMER.

The summer has come, with its sunshiny hours,
	The fields in their verdure are smiling and gay;
The air is perfumed with the breath of the flow'rs,
	As the soft, wooing breezes in gentleness play.
The violets blossom in low, meadows green,
	And daisies are nodding to us as we pass,
The buttercups, glowing like gold in its sheen,
	Are shining like stars among tangled grass.
Away to the hills for a moment we'll stray,
	Where wild flowers offer their tribute so sweet;
The hedges are blooming along the rough way,
	And red clover blushing under our feet.

Ah! here let us pause, and drink in our fill
	From Nature's clear fountains, so calm and so deep;
Till twilight is hanging o'er valley and hill,
	The world, as it were, enchanting to sleep.
List to the nightingale's song in the wood,
	Waking sweet mem'ries of "love's golden dream;"
The dear ones departed, the tender and good,
	The joys and the sorrows of life are his theme.

Yes, the nightingale's notes, so clear and so high,
	Wake to life all emotion that's ling'ring still;
E'en the fountains of love, we may have thought dry
	To the passion of music, instinctively thrill.
The freshness of June is within us once more,
	We're clasping again the fond and the true;
The present is ours—a bright future before—
	The friendships of life, then let us renew.
Sing on, thou brave songster of fair, rosy June,
	Thy voice has a charm sweet peace to impart;
To the passionate chords of the soul 'tis attune,
	And it strengthens and cheers the weary of heart.

The silvery moon has kissed the warm hills,
	With beauty she's clothing the midsummer night,
But sees her sweet face in the sparkling rills,
	And lingers, embracing the earth with delight.

The charm of the summer, so silent and grand,
	Pervading all nature with consummate skill,
Shows plainly the touch of a great Master-hand,
	Who fashioned the universe unto His will.

And while we adore this infinite power,
	That wakened to life and to motion the earth,
And called into being each bird, tree and flower;
	And gave to creation this exquisite birth—
Oh, when, blessed Father, shall we know the truth,
	The mystery deep that envelops the whole?
Whence cometh this yearning for immortal youth,
	This love for the beautiful, thrilling the soul?
'Tis a heritage, surely, "Our Father" has given,
	Which links us unseen to a happier sphere;
A faint recollection of what was in heaven,
	That clings to us ever while lingering here.
