	BY HANNAH T. KING.

Think not my dear Sister, tho' silent l’ve been.
I've forgotten that sweet, and remarkable scene,
That a week ago yesterday gladden’d my eyes,
And fill’d me with rapture, with joy and surprise! 
With rapture and joy that thy spirit was free,
With surprise—for I knew not such gift were in thee;
And thy prayer was so humble, so childlike and pure,
It had power the Spirit of God to allure!
It softened each one, and awaken’d a tear
In every eye—as it fell on the ear;—
The chords of sweet love bound us, body and mind
And made us feel loving, forgiving and kind.
No spirit was there but the spirit of love,
His presence we felt tho’ we saw not the "Dove"
This essence of God on that meeting did fall
And richly, and lovingly blest one and all!
With love in our hearts and faith In our prayers;
The “wheat” was so full, there was no room for tares.
It seemed that one spirit pervaded the place,
So richly the spirits, commingled by grace!
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ fill’d each heart 
And Unity, concord, and peace did impart!
Hush! now you broke forth in that heavenly “tongue"
And rapture, in silence [heared] every one!
It seemed to my rapt, and recipient ear—
That a spirit had come from a holier sphere
To bring such glad tidings to comfort my heart 
To build up my soul, and fresh strength to impart;
For I’d been in deep waters for some time before
Tho’ that day, my bosom its bright feelings bore;
As tho’ a sweet foretaste was over me cast
Of good things to come, and of those that were past; 
And I joined in the circle to work for the poor;
Little dreaming such blessings were for me in store!
How free was your spirit! how fluent your tongue!
Twas plain by whoso sweet inspiration you sung;
You seemed to my fancy an Angel on earth
Or rather your speech seemed of heavenly birth;—
But if faith, love, and prayer can Inspire a heart
No marvel you bore such a wonderful part;
For all the assembly upheld you, by these
Without any effort, so much did you please;
And each heart on its tablet has noted the day
In its own prism tints, that will ne’er pass away!
Oh! may we all live for the blessings you spake
And carefully watch every movement we make;
For we know that the tempter all people will try
But in Israel’s God, all his arts we defy;
Our hearts are all right but frail nature is weak,
For wisdom to guide let us faithfully seek;
Her paths lead to pleasure, to peace, and sweet joy.
Her coin Is all sterling and needs no alloy!
And by her sweet aid we may hope to attain
The rich blessings of life, with much less of the pain;
For when we walk wisely, we ever walk well, 
'Twas for lack of this wisdom whenever we fell.
Like children we sometimes get reckless and free,
And forget for the moment how wise we should be.
Forget that the battle is yet to be won,
And the race to the swiftest has yet to be run!—
We never can say, that our warfare Is done,
That the race is completed, the battle is won,
Till death comes along with his scythe and his dart,
And closes the pulses, and seals up the, heart— 
Then let us like watchmen, be ever awake, 
Beholding each movement our enemies make,
Let us see that our armor is ready and bright,
Let us muster our forces by day and by night,
And let us remember the talents He’s given,  
If rightly expended will help to make Heaven!
Tho’ trials await us on every hand,
By strength from above we’re enabled to stand;
And every trial, like waves of the sea
Roll over and leave us, both stronger and free!
We learn to sit loose to the baubles of Time
And all the frail treasures each fondly calls “mine,”—
But now I must close up this heart felt address
And in blessing I ask the great Father to bless
You my Sister with wisdom, with meekness to bear
The trials of life, and escape every snare,
That Satan or wicked ones artfully lay
To entrap us if we but a moment should stray;
Let your mind be a kingdom, to you has been given
Such talents as fit and prepare one for Heaven!
If rightly expended, if rightly laid out
Your own exaltation, they will bring about;
Where the goal of Eternity all can obtain,
There crown’d as a Queen, with the righteous you'll reign.


