CONTINUED.

	But what of James Wyvil! his feelings may
be more easily imagined than described. It is
written "Thou shalt not covet thy neighbors'
wife." He had not intended to do so, and had
not thought of sinning. He had waited until
she was free from Jesse and never expected to
see him any more. He had taken such a
course as could not place him under condem-
nation. He thought God would not condemn
him and his own conscience approved, but he
had plucked the fruit and it had turned to
Dead Sea apples. How many lauded him
when he married her, they would gladly have
done the same, but now they were ready to say
"it served him right he might have known
it." "Such is life" it is the way of the world. 
Jesse Burns was too true a man to desert
his wife and children, said those who had been
loudest in condemning him. It was a peculiar
situation to be placed in. Even had he chosen
to have given her up, he could not say to Jesse,
"here she is you can have your wife back
again;" for she was not land nor gold, nor
household goods, and the marriage covenant by
which she was bound to him was an eternal one.
Weeks and months went by. The sun shone,
the showers fell, the days dawned and darkened,
and the summer passed away. To Mary it all
seemed a wretched farce. She could not see
the hand of providence, the clouds so darkened
and obscured it. She could not see that Jesse
was drifting away, being carried farther, and
farther on the tide of prejudice and unbelief.
She could not see that the demon of strong
drink was binding him, stronger and firmer in

[Column 2]
his degrading bands, for intoxication had not
yet conquered his manly pride; but the
destroyer was there, and the chains were being
forged no less strong and sure, because in
silence and in darkness. In James Wyvil she
had a rock of refuge, but she blinded by her
idolatrous love failed to realize it. Her pride
was wounded by the position she was placed in.
How few could know how really blameless she
was. How many who were first to counsel her
were now ready to condemn.
	To Minnie who was proud and sensitive to a
fault the position was a trying one, and her
grief was not lessened when her father informed
her that he intended to marry again. He
called for her one Sunday morning to go to
meeting, and on the way informed her that he
had chosen a wife who would share his destiny.
Minnie could say but little, for surely he had
as much right to marry again as her mother
had. She could only weep and beg him to con-
sider well his choice, for some subtle instinct
told her that it would bring no happiness to
himself nor to his children.
	He said, he was yet a young man and should
not live his life alone; no doubt the lady he
had chosen would make him an intelligent
companion. As neither of them knew any
reason why she would not, it was as well per-
haps that it should be her as any one.
	She was a widow lady some years younger
than Jesse. Her mother dying left the family
in her care. It consisted of a brother eighteen
years old at that time, two sisters, fourteen and
sixteen and a little boy of ten. She worked at
dressmaking, and it was by employing the lady
in that way that Minnie and her father became
acquainted with her. She was not a handsome
woman, but her intelligence and address made
her a pleasant companion when she chose to
exert herself. Jesse made short wooing and
they were soon married. He did not take his
wife from her charge, but went to live with the
family and built them a nice house that fall.
	When it was finished he invited Minnie to
live with them, which she was glad to do, as
she could no longer feel at home in James
Wyvil house. It was a bitter blow to Mary,
but she could only suffer in silence.
	Minnie went to school that winter and was
also thrown much in society, for her father's
wife moved in the best circles and held a pos-
ition which Minnie's mother's long isolation
had deprived her of. Not that Mary failed to
draw around her intelligent and refined com-
panions, but she did not feel like going much in
society.
	The two girls Grace and Maria were nice
agreeable girls, although sometimes a little jeal-
ous of the attention shown Minnie for she was
well received and much sought after. In the
spring Jesse said he must return to California
to look after his business as he had left it in
the hands of his partner. Preparations were
accordingly made to take his wife and leave
Minnie with the rest of the family. She felt
very bad to have him go away. There was no
love between her and the present Mrs. Burns
but she felt that she would be lonely indeed
when her father was gone.
	The day came at last for starting, and Minnie
watched them with a feeling of dumb agony,
until her father came and kissed her good-bye,
when she went away to hide her grief, for she
felt that it was too sacred for any one to wit-
ness, and her extreme sensibility caused her to
fear their ridicule.
	When she came in again they were gone
and she felt inexpressibly lonely, for she re-
alized that she had perhaps, parted with her
father for the last time.
	She kept a brave heart and a merry one, to
all outward appearance; but none knew the
loneliness, the aching void, nor the silent tears
that were shed when others were sleeping. Nor
how often she envied her associates who were


blessed with homes where a father and mother
guarded over them, and love and union held its
sacred influence in their hearts.
	She was not without admirers, but there was
no one with whom she felt to trust her life's
happiness.
	When another year had passed Mary was
again left alone, with an infant daughter of
James Wyvil's she felt something of the old-
time desolation at being thrown once more on
the world. She felt deeply the parting with
James, for she had long since given up all
thoughts of Jesse. He too had placed a barrier
between them that could not be overlooked.
Was he happy in so doing. How many of us
in our anxiety for a change ever make one for 
the better.
	On going to California he resumed his busi-
ness and, for awhile prospered. He built a
large hotel and rented it, which brought him
a good income.  He often wrote to Minnie and
sent her money.  He also informed her that he
had made a will giving the hotel to his children.
Nettie and herself were all he had. To his
wife he gave a valuable farm. Minnie knew
little of them except what he chose to write, but
rumors came that he was drinking hard, then
there was a long silence broken now and then
with word that he was going to the bad.
		  To be continued.


