	BY HANNAH T. KING.

	We are accustomed to consider these as dis-
tincttinct epochs, but they are links in a mighty
chain of being; and when the finite, merges
into the infinite.  we suppose they will form an
eternal present; we are urged sometimes to lay
aside the Past;-- and even Byron says, "The
past is nothing;" and Shakspere says "Let
bygones be bygones."  Yet I have an intuitive
knowledge that at other moments they would
have ignored these assertions! With regard to
some things, there may be truth in them; but
not all, oh ! no, not all ! some parts of the past,
are very precious.  Why forget the good of 
any epoch ? In it we have drank of the halcyon
cup of happiness, we have lived in it, we have
suffered in it, and each and all have endeared it to
us--for in the bitter there was the sweet-- and
in the sweet, oh!  most sweet, the bitter was
surely mingled! wisely mingled, we are com-
pelled to say!  All these formed our individu-
ality--our identity if you please!  In the past
we became acquainted with our Father, 
and our Mother, and in our early days they
were as god to us--we knew no others, we
knew them, and loved them with a degree of
worship! they were the Shrine before whom
we offered up our prayers to our Father in
Heaven--they supplied all our wants, if we
were sick they nursed, and comforted  us, and
loved us thro' every scene of life.  We also
became acquainted with our brothers and our
sisters, we grew up together in the Parental
Home, and they became our friends, the sweet-
est the purest friendship existed between us.
We also made acquaintance with our children,
all these became our Lares and Penates, the
"Lines fell to us in pleasant places," an atmos-
phere of happiness was around us, tho' like
Paul we were "preserved from being too highly
exalted" -- by some spirits "sent to buffet us,"
to preserve for us an equillibrium.  We saw
and acknowledged the hand of God in all; our
parents inculcated in us the love of truth, the
principles of obedience and humility were our
earliest lessons; that humility that taught us
to listen to the counsel of those above us, and
to do to others as we would they should do
unto us; these lessons helped us to obey the
Gospel when we heard it, they help us to stand
to day, and endeavor "to hold on to the rod of
iron" thro' evil report and good report, all this
laid a foundation for the future.  Who then
can say,
	'The past, is nothing?" few can say,
	Their star of life has shed no ray,
	That o'er their retrospective view,
	Cast glowing tints of pinky hue! --
	Yes, yes the present will reveal
	The past is something-- woe or weal--
	Is built upon the mighty past
	Which thro' eternity may last! 
	The future is within the veil,
	Obscure in its unfolded tale.--
	But yet, what e'er our God's behest;
	Let's bless Him, for we have been blest. 

	The present, which to me com-
menced when entering the Church of Jesus
Christ, has realized many of the day-dreams of 
the past, it is good; if only the mind, the heart,
the understanding can grasp, and realize its
teachings, this we are trying all the time to do.
this we want to do! May our Father accept
this in place of our perfect obedience!  I con-
fess I cannot separate the past, and the future, 
from the present, they make a whole, that can
have no quartering, it simply acknowledges
the law of progression.  The Future ! a veil
hangs over it! no doubt it is wisely hiddem
from us in our present imperfect and ignorant
state.  Yet I believe it is inherent in the hu-
man composition to desire to pry into futurity;
some desire it from a love of truth, and know-
ledge that they may be guarded against the
 quick-sands that beset every pathway, some
from an idle curiosity, arising from a restless,
unhappy spirit, that have little or no confidence
in themselves and consequentle little in their
God? Such was Saul, when he applied to the
Witch of Endor, having by his conduct closed
the revelations of heaven against himself;--and
she was allowed to shew him--
		"Crownless, headless, breathless fall"
	"Son, and Sire, the House of Saul."

	To desire to gain knowledge lawfully, is per-
fectly just and praisworthy; when so obtained, 
it will be ours for eternity!  but enough
is revealed even now to excite enthusiastic
perseverence, even in the most flegmatique
to the sanguine to reach even "the anchor with-
in the Veil," and to shed its rich effulgence
over the homeliness of earth, and earthly things;
to surround the past, and present by a Halo of
light reflected back by the grand future, and
enable us to press forward "to the prize of the
high calling that is before us," till we attain
the Presence-Chamber of the great "I am"
and realize an eternal present in the kingdom
of our Father, and our God!

	The future, present and the past,
		Are subjects all should seek to scan,
	For the contain the first and last
		Of all thats precious unto man,
	An woman too, and every child
		In these grand epochs, hold a stake,
	And Heaven's love and mercy mild
		Are needed every move we make;
	Then let's be wary, let's be wise,
		For, no child's play is human life--
	We may not trifle or despise
The present with salvation rife.


