	RICHFIELD

	We have lately been blessed by a visit from 
Sisters Zina D. Young and M. Isabella Horne,
and have so enjoyed it-I thought it might be
interesting to some of the readers of the EX-
PONENT.
	They arrived in Richfield on Wednesday;the 
25 of May and if one were to judge from their 
appearance,he would think their ride had been
in the pleasantest of cars, instead of a light,
spring carriage, over rough roads, they looked 
so cheerful, bright and pleasant.
	Thursday and Friday were spent in attend-
ing Conference, the first day being occupied by
the Relief Society, and the second day by the 
Y. L. M. I. A., and the Primary. The instruction 
and counsel given was good, and the Spirit of 
God filled our hearts with joy and peace. In 
the afternoon of hte second day, Miss Clara
Horne (who with her father and sister Mattie
were also visiting Richfield) arose and spoke in
tongues, and I never heard a sweeter language,
or a more melodious voice.-"The Spirit of 
God  like a fire was burning." There was scarce-
ly a dry eye in the congregation. Sister Young
interpreted it, and it was a poem of great and 
rare worth. It was the strongest testimony I 
have ever heard, and I have heard many here 
express themselves in the same manner. Miss
Mattie Horne, at the urgent request of the 
President, addressed the young ladies for a 
short time,  which went straight to the heart and
won the admiration and esteem of all present.
	On Saturday, Sister Young, the Sisters Horne, 
and the Presidencies of the R. S., Y. L. M. I,
A., and P. A., of this Stake visited Glenwood, 
and met with each of hte above named socie-
ties. Had a pleasant meeting,and a flow of the 
good Spirit, and all seemed edified and blessed.
We returned to Richfield in the evening, and 
remained over Sunday, and then the same
party, with the exception of the Misses Horne,
who had started home, visited the Southern
part of the County, which comprises, Inverury,
Elsinore, Joseph, Monroe ond Annabella, held 
three meetings in each place, (with the excep-
tion of Aunabella, where there is no organiza-
tion of the Y. L. M.,) one meeting with the R.


S., one with the Y.L.M., and one with the
P.A.
	The gifts of the Gospel were manifested both
in Elsinore and Monroe, and it was a great
source of pleasure and edification to the Saints,
and especially the young, many of them never
having heard anything of the kind before.
	We returned to Richfield Thursday evening,
and Friday was spent in rest, but on Friday
evening the sisters were surprised by a party
of brethren and sisters who met in the R.S.
hall, and enjoyed a few hours of talking, danc-
ing and music, and the partaking of a beautiful
picnic.  Saturday morning the sisters started
for home, intending to go through Sanpete, and
hold meeting in some of the settlements on the
way.
	The visit will never be forgotten, and I feel
safe in saying, our beloved Sisters Young and
Horne will ever have the love and prayers of
the sisters of this Stake of Zion.
	Minutes of the 7th Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of Sevier Stake, of Zion.
Richfield, May 26, 1881.
	Present on the stand, Sisters Zina D. Young
and M. Isabella Horne, of Salt Lake, President
Elizabeth Bean and counselors of the Sevier
Stake, and Presidents of the different Wards.
Pres't Spencer, and Bros. A.K. Thurber, G.
W. Bean, J.S. Horne, and others of the Priest-
hood.  Pres. E. Bean presiding, singing, prayer
by Pres. Thurber; singing.  sister Bean felt
peased to see so many present, and that we
had the Sisters from Salt Lake with us, and
hoped we would retain and put in practice
their counsel and instruction.  Said we needed
an Asst. Secretary for the Stake, and Miss
Annie Bean was sustained in that position.
Minutes of last Conference read and accepted.
Comppiled report read.  Sister Zina D. Young
felt her dependence in rising to address a
congregation; was thankful that so many of the
brethren were present that they might know
what was being taught their wives, daughter
and sisters.  Said the responsibilities of the
sisters were great, and their calling the most
noble of women.  They were to mould the
characters of future generations, not only for
time but for all eternity.  Contrasted the la-
bors and conditions of the sisters of the Relief
Society and the women of the world.  Said we
came together to learn to love and bless each
other, and among the women of Zion could be
found purity of heart, firmness of mind, depth
of character and sterling worth, while the wo-
men of the world were constantly struggling for
rights they could not tie to and she pitied
them.  Said we should be careful to set before
our children reading matter of our own pro-
duction.  By her request Sister Heppler read
the revelation contained in the Doctrine and
Covenants (to Emma Smith.)  Sister Young
deemed it good to read such things, said it
would enrich our souls.
	Sister Horne said this was the era for women,
and the time was nigh when they would enlarge
their minds, and increase their capacity to do
good.  This work was progressive.  Joseph
Smith had said this Church was never com-
pletely organized until the Relief Society or-
ganization was effected.  God was no respecter
of persons, and his daughters were endowed
with gifts and talents, as well as his sons, and
the gifts and blessings of the Gospel would rest
upon them, as well as upon the brethren. Said
the sisters should look after the poor, and com-
fort and bless the afflicted.  We should under-
stand business matters, and keep our books in
order, which was a very difficult matter.  We
are so constituted that we require three
kinds of food temporal food to sustain our
bodies, spiritual food to sustain our spirits, and
intellectual food to sustain our minds.  Prayed
for the blessings of God to rest upon all.
	Pres. Spencer felt like talking for a few min-
utes for the sisters benefit.  Said they were the
teachers and instructors of the youth, and he
appealed to the mothers to teach their child-
ren the principle of tithing, for it was one of
the grandest principles of the Gospel.  Spoke
very strongly upon the subjects of governing
the children, and keeping the children out of
the streets.
	Singing.  Benediction, by Bishop Jensen.
	2 P.M.	After the usual opening exercises
the Presidents of the different wards gave ver-
bal reports of their societies; reported as being
in good condition, and doing well.
	Sister Horne said she had been requested to
give the officers of the Society a few instruc-
tions in regard to their duties, which she did in
a spirit of gentleness and humility, and also
spoke of storing grain, and that we should not
sell nor use it but store it for famine.
	Sister Young spoke upon the subject of silk
culture, and the duties of the officers of the
Silk Associations.  Reported the condition of
the Silk Associations in the northern part of the
Territory.  Encouraged the Sisters to use
energy and diligence in establishing silk in-
dustries.  Said for us not to let our talents lie
dormant, but to cultivate them.  Spoke of the
ability manifested in many of the Primary As-
sociations.  We should never get in a hurry,
but take time to be kind and reasonable, and
never strike it child in a passion but teach our
children to knit, sew, cook, and do all kinds of
work.  Advised us to study the laws of health,
and teach our daughters to observe them.
Portrayed the dangers of high-heeled shoes
and tight lacing.  Discouraged the use of
Babylonish fashions.  There were two things
she always felt like running from and that was
a house on fire, and a fault-finding tongue.
The greatest source of sorro is sin; "Those the
Lord loveth He chasteneth."  But don't borrow
trouble.  "Never cross a bridge until you
come to it."  Asked the blessings of God upon
all Zion.
	Sister Bean was greatly pleased and edified
at what had been said, and thankful for the
instructions; desired to do what was right.
Urged the sisters to vote, and to know where
their children were at night. &c.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Sang "How beauteous their feet."  Benediction
by, Pres. A.K. Thurber.
			CELIA E. BEAN, Sec. Protem.
				------

	The Quarterly Conference of the Weber
Stake of Zion was held in the Tabernacle, Og-
den City, Thursday, June 9, 1881, Mrs. Jane
S. Richards presiding.
	On the stand were Apostle F.D. Richards,
Prest. D.H. Peery, Counselor Middleton and
several Bishop of the city and adjacent settle-
ments also Prest. Eliza R. Snow Smith and
Mrs. E.B. Wells of Salt Lake City, and the
officers of the presiding board of Weber Stake
R.S. and Y.L.M.I.A.
	The verbal reports of presidents of the sev-
eral societies were very satisfactory and showed
much had been accomplished by the sisters in
various charitable labors, also a marked im-
provement in speaking.
	Sister J.S. Richards gave the audience kind-
ly greeting, made preliminary remarks express-
ing her great pleasure in having Sister Eliza
present after so long an absence, and her desire
to receive and hearlen to the instructions she
might give on the occasion.
	Sister E.R. Snow Smith gave a very enter-
taining account of her trip to St. George and
the southern settlements, the enjoyment she
realized in officiating in the Temple, and in or-
ganizing the children in the Primary Associa-
tions.  She referred feelingly to the affectionate
remembrance of the societies of Weber Stake
in preparing the excellent party given in honor
of the anniversary of her birthday, and her
gratitude to all who assisted, but felt humble
and weak in having so much honor heaped up-
on her.  She exhorted the sisters to faithful-
ness and diligence in the performance of duties
as wives and mothers, and earnestly entreated
mothers to be loving and tender and guard
carefully the precious souls of their little ones,
and throw around them every possible safe-
guard to protect them from evil influences;
throught the Saints should be indefatigable in
their labors in this respect; urged the sisters to
hold fast to the "iron rod," and never lose sight
of the exaltation they had set out to obtain.
	Apostle F.D. Richards spoke in terms of the
highest commendation of the good work that
was being done by the sisters, and alluded to
the fact of their labors being greatly appreci-
ated by the Bishops and other brethren.  He
spoke of the bitter opposition that was being
exhibited toward this people by various de-
nominations of professed Christians throughout
the country.  The speaker then read a copy of
some remarks made by the Prophet Joseph
Smith a short time previous to his martyrdom,
and the prophecy uttered on that occasion of
the Saints migrating to the Rocky Mountains.
He recounted some of the severe trials and per-
secutions through which the Saints had passed
in the earlier days of the Church.  One of his
own brothers had been killed by the mob in
Missouri, and thrown with other dead bodies
into the dry well at Haun's Mill, vic-
tims of that fearful massacre, in 1837.  An-
other brother of his, one of the famous Mor-
mon Battalion, had died of the hardships of
that fearful march across the desert.
	In the afternoon of the same day, Elder
Richards read from the Millennial Star, vol.19,
concerning the first organization of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, by President Joseph Smtih.
These articles treated of the nature of this or-
ganization, its object and bearing, and also of
the special duties of woman in relation to the
position they occupy in this Church, and the
blessings which they might obtain through
faithfulness and obedience.  The power which
should be manifested in the healing of the
sick and performing other good works, and ex-
plained the meaning of "Elect Lady," Brother
Richards made a few explanatory remarks up-
on what he had been reading; said it was all
easy to be understood and carried conviction
to every honest heart.  Spoke of the spiritual
influences which had been brought to bear up-
on the young men and boys by means of the
Mutual Improvement Associations, and gave it
as his opinion that through these spiritual
channels the improprieties of youth might in
time be corrected, and they would apply them-
selves to obtaining knowledge and intelligence.
Realized there had been a great improvement
since these organizations had been established.
	Mrs. E.B. Wells spoke upon the importance
of selecting good reading matter to put into
the hands of young people; urged the sisters to
avail themselves of every opportunity for cul-
ture, to read good books and the news of the
day, so they might be able to converse intelli-
gently upon all general topics, and to instruct
their children at home and be companionable in
the family circle, that their minds and hearts
might expand and enlarge and light be given
them and wisdom to aid them in the duties of
every day life and the high and holy responsi-
bilities which devolve upon woman.
	Bro. Samuel Eggleston made some remarks
upon Nauvoo days and his acquaintance with
the Prophet Joseph Smith, which were very in-
teresting.
	Mrs. Hattie Brownmade a few well-timed
remarks; and President J.S. Richards closed
with some suggestions to the sisters in an ap-
propriate but brief speech; and after the usual
exercises of singing and prayer, the Conference
adjourned for three months.
				-------
	Friday, June 10th, was the Quarterly Con-


ference of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Stake,
Mrs. Sarah A. Herrick presiding.
	The same brethren and sisters occupied the
stand as on the previous day, except a few
young lady presidents and Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son, of Salt Lake City. 
	The spirit of the meetings in both forenoon
and afternoon sessions was elevating and the
instruction was highly edifying.  The speakers
were Prest. S. A. Herrick and her counselors, 
Emily S. Richards and Josephine R. West. 
Several young lady presidents of various wards
and settlements spoke intelligently upon the
principles of the Gospel, proving how benefi-
cial for spiritual improvement had been the
training they had received in these Associa-
tions. 
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, E. B. Wells
and E. B. Ferguson, M.D., each addressed the
congregation.  As we have not space for all, 
we give below an extract from the speech of
the last named:  
	The speaker appealed earnestly and elo-
quently to the young, urging them to appreci-
ate the blessings they enjoyed in the Gospel,
and not listen to the allurements of those in
the world who seek to lead them aside from the
path of duty; urged them to beware of the lib-
erty which they so fascinatingly portrayed. She
had lived in the outside world and could speak
experimentally of both the conditions of soci-
ety.  If we go back to our Father with our
souls dwarfed, uncultivated and undeveloped,
we will be clipped of the glory it is our privi-
lege otherwise to enjoy in eternity.  Spoke up-
on the care of the physical organization of the
body, how necessary it was in order to do the
work of life; she referred to the evil tendency
of late hours, round dancing, tight shoes and
other things which destroy the health; alluded
to the misrepresentations of ministers in their
conferences abroad, and appealed to the young
ladies who kept Gentile company to know what
their fate would be in the morning of the res-
urrection.  She thought woman's greates mis-
sion was to bear the souls of men, and the
practices which existed in the world tended to
destroy offspring, women continually trying to
avoid the condition of motherhood.  The speak-
er gave some of her experience in the outside
world previous to embracing the Gospel, and
said that the pleasures of the world, though
fair to all appearance, had, like the apples of
Sodom, turned to ashes on her lips and were
bitter afterwards.  She entreated the young la-
dies to live their religion, considering well the
terrible consequences of going astray, of for-
feiting their birthright.
	Sister E. R. Snow Smith addressed the meet-
ing, expressing her joy in being with the sis-
ters here in Ogden again, after so long an ab-
sence.  She felt greatly attached to them, and
she observed a material growth among the
young sisters in these organizations, mental and
spiritual; she realized it forcibly here to-day;
referred to the first Association of young la-
dies which she had the honor of effecting by
direction of the Holy Priesthood; these young
sisters are respected now.  The parents had 
come to realize the benefit of these meetings by
the result.  The heart must be cultivated as
well as the head; our spirits must be matured
as well as our bodies; she had sometimes
thought there were those who called themselves
Saints who thought they might enter the King-
dom of God without doing this.  Inasmuch as
we direct our time and attention to the things
of this world, and neglect our spiritual wel-
fare, we will lose by it.  What is the wealth
of the world compared to the knowledge that
God has spoken and the intelligence that has
been revealed from heaven?  Urged the sisters
to continue reading the Bible and Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants; they
will show you how strict the Lord was with His
servants; exhorted the young ladies to read
carefully the revelation given to Emma Smith,
and notice at the close of this revelation that
what was said unto her was said unto all. It
gave her advice in regard to her duty to her
husband; in order to carry out this in our
lives, we need great cultivation.  You will obtain
this by applying your minds to reading the
scriptures and cultivating yourselves in these
meetings by the aid of the Spirit of God.  Sis-
ter Eliza also made allusion to the evils which
were entering in among our children, and the
necessity of taking care of the little ones and
preserving their bodies and souls pure; spoke
upon the Gospel and how we should obtain a
perfect knowledge of it; signs follow the be-
lievers and are not given to convince unbeliev-
ers.  The Savior said, "In my name they shall
cast out devils."  We have precisely the same
Gospel Jesus and His disciples taught. We
are philosophers enough to believe the same
causes produce the same effects; referred to the
various sects professing to have the authority;
but if they had, it must have come from the
mother church.  We have our authority from
another source, direct from heaven.  Our reli-
gion covers everything in heaven and upon
the earth.  The Lord has given us perfect prin-
ciples, but it will require the practice of these
as well as the profession.  In conclusion she re-
lated a conversation with a lady from Boston,
who thought the railroads would make great
changes in our religion.  Sister Eliza answered,
"O, no, the principles of our religion are eter-
nal--there can be no change."
	Conference was adjourned for three months.


