				CONTINUED.
	In our last we left Sister Eliza at the Sea of
Galilee with a bunch of hyssop in her hand,
given her by the young Jewess. The next day
some of the party with whom she was travel-
ing went by boat across the Jordan, while she,
with the others, went on horseback to the place
of destination, about two hours' ride along the
seashore, passing the ruins of Magdala, said to
be the place where Mary Magdalene formerly
lived, arriving nearly four hours ahead of those
who went in the boat. Meantime, Sister Eliza
was enjoying the interval gathering shells, or
pebbles, by the seashore. "Here the snow-
crowned Mount Hermon" was in sight, and
the travelers "ascended to the height of five
thousand feet," over rough passes and trails,
rocks smooth as glass in some places; but the
party rode animals trained to keep their foot-
ing. Sister Eliza says though she had to be
all the time on the watch, she was much
amused. Before reaching Damascus, for a long
distance "the way was lined on each side with
grape vines, seemingly well cultivated." The
noise of the dogs in the city of Damascus is
very annoying, and it is said there are forty
thousand of them in the city. Here, on Sun-
day, the Sacrament was administered by the
brethren. Monday President Smith and party
called upon the sub-American Consul, who
treated them with great courtesy, offering each
of them coffee in a tiny cup, as a national
token of friendship, which courtesy obliged
them to accept. The Consular Agent could
converse some in the English language, and is
not a Mahommedan. He enquired ot Pres.
George A. Smith concerning the "Mormon"
faith, and being told they believed in the pa-
triarchal order of marriage, informed him that
the Mahommedans could marry four wives and
buy as many as they pleased. The Turks, he
said, would not allow women to vote as "Mor-
mons" did, it would be "placing them too
nearly on an equality with men."
	"March 19," Sister Eliza says, "we left the
old city of Scriptural celebrity—the scene of
many former striking incidents, particularly
that of the miraculous conversion of Paul, and
having walked on the 'Street called Straight'
(which, judging from the gate leading into it,
was much broader formerly than now), with
its one hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants,
without shedding any tears of regret. Now,
instead of narrow trails, we travel on the
broad, smooth 'diligence road,' through a nar-
row gorge between high, rocky ridges, over-
looking narrow strips of fertility along the
beautiful Abana river, which skirts the almost
perpendicular bluffs for many miles." The
party camped at a little village called Dimas.
Sister Eliza was rather amused the next morn-
ing, while the mules were being packed, to
watch "numerous goat herds starting off to the
mountains, and especially as numbers of the
goats issued from the doors of the houses—the
same doors the men, women and children came
through, and were intermingled as they passed
out. The next day passed through an exten-
sive and fertile valley, cultivated, and seem-
ingly occupied by civilized people, with the
most charming "landscape scenery." The
party camped for the night in full view of "the
celebrated mountains of Lebanon, covered with
snow." This range the lady says instinctively
struck her with admiration and sublime awe.
"I was so captivated with the bold, majestic
scenery of nature exhibited in an interminable
variety of forms, before, behind, all around
me, that many times I stopped my horse, that
I might feast my eyes on the surrounding beau-
ties of nature—the almost uncultivated 'Glory

[Column 2]of Lebanon.' " The road, the lady tells us
was winding and zigzag, and the vegetation,
shrubbery, shade trees and flowers in full bloom
were a marked contrast to the white limestone
that paved the road. All these descriptions of
places by Sister Eliza are exceedingly vivid,
and one may feel, in reading her Book of Trav-
els, almost conveyed to the spot and enjoying
the picture, proving that her power of descrip-
tive delineation is admirable.
	About ten miles before reaching Beyrout,
the road is lined on both sides with fields of
mulberry trees. The city of Beyrout has of
late superseded Damascus in the manufacture
of silk. At this place there was a public dem-
onstration in favor of a German Prince just
entering the city, and it was quite interesting
for the "Mormon" party, who really seemed to
attract the most attention of the two. The
two ladies, Sister Eliza and Miss Clara Little,
daughter of Mayor Little of Salt Lake City,
who was one of the tourists, were called upon
by multitudes of ladies, some of them urging
them to accompany them to their homes. They
called at a few places, and found them, though
very simple homes, very neat.
	On the 22d of March the tourists bade adieu
to tent life, mounted their horses and rode to
the hotel. On the 25th embarked on the
Steamer Mars, of the Austrian Lloyd line, en-
route for Constantinople. Sister Eliza had
been, at her somewhat advanced time of life,
enduring "twenty-nine days of tent life, and
twenty-one of riding on horseback." While
remembering she was in her seventieth year,
one cannot help thinking she was a woman of
fortitude and remarkable powers of endurance.
She arrived at Constantinople on the first of
April. On the way there passed the island of
Cyprus, and had a view of Mount Parnassus,
the ancient site of the Temple of Venus, also
Rhodes Cos and Scio—the last named is now
the scene of devastation frem the recent terri-
ble earthquakes. They also passed Samos, the
birthplace of Pythagoras, and long the resi-
dence of Herodotus. The Steamer anchored
at Smyrna, of Bible celebrity. At Constanti-
nople she visited all the attractions, and they
are numerous; had a fine view of the exterior
of the Sultan's palace, which stands on the
shore of the Bosphorus. This city, it is well
known, is beautified with mosques, domes and
minarets in abundance, and thousands of luxu-
riant, tall cypress trees, it being a Moslem cus-
tom to plant one of these trees at the birth
and death of a child.
	After leaving Constantinople, on deck one
has a full view (on the Asiatic side) of the
immense barracks used for a hospital in the
Crimean war, where Miss Florence Nightingale
made herself famous, world-wide, by her gen-
erous services as a nurse.
	The Steamer cast anchor in front of the
Grecian Piræus, and the party rowed ashore,
then rode five miles to Athens, once the seat of
learning and renown, famous for its past great-
ness. Here Sister Eliza roamed about among
the grand and interesting ruins, and with such
active imaginative powers as she possesses, she
no doubt almost saw this ancient classical seat
of wealth, magnificence and splendor in its
original beauty. On visiting 'Mars Hall' Sis-
ter Eliza might have fancied the Apostle Paul
occupying the position, boldly addressing his
idolatroas hearers, surrounded by the various
brilliant temples dedicated to these heathen
gods of man's device. In Athens the tourists
took tea with Mr. Francis, the American Min-
ister, and his amiable and accomplished wife;
they also met there the American Consul Gen-
eral to Constantinople; all were social and
pleasant. Another celebrity whom the party
had the opportunity of seeing there was George
I, King of Greece, in plain citizen costume.
	From Athens, the tourists went to Trieste,

[Column 3]
Austria, by steamer, thence to Verona, and on
to Munich, in Bavaria.
	At Munich Sister Eliza visited several
schools with Kindergartens for the little ones,
who have in this department the most perfect
training. Munich is the birthplace of Mrs.
Paul A. Schettler of this city, at that time she
was at home on a visit and through the courtesy
and kindmess of her brother Mr. Geirisch who
was in "His Majesty's service and confidence"
the party were assisted in gaining admittance
to places of special interest. They were con-
ducted through the King's Palace and shown
apartments not open to general visitors. Some
of the rooms the lady tells us represented the
sixteenth century, others a later date, and some
of the present style of architecture. In this
Bavarian palace there are magnificent brocaded
window curtains of the most beautiful colors
made wholly of glass. One room had its four
walls hung with portraits of ladies called the
"beauties of Munich." It happened to be a very
favorable time for sight-seeing as prepara-
tions were being made for the wedding of the
Prince of Bavaria and the Princess of Austria
and members of the Austrian Court. On the
afternoon of the 28th, these royal people were
expected and all Munich must see them. It
was judged there were from forty to fifty thous-
and people on the streets and sidewalks, eager
to get a glimpse of the pageantry of royalty.
From Munich the party went to Vienna. Here
Sister Eliza says, "by ascending some four
hundred and twenty steps in the spire of St.
Stephen's Church; we had a magnificent view
of the city and surroundings, including the
unrivaled Palace of the Exposition, or World's
Fair which had just then been opened, though
its arrangements were not nearly completed.


