	SOCIAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATION.—The sixth
regular meeting of the District of Columbia
Social Science Association was held at the resi-
dence of Prof. and Mrs. H. C. Spencer, Satur-
day evening, June 25, at 8 o'clock. Perma-
nent officers were elected as follows: President,
Mrs. Sara A. Spencer; Vice-Presidents, Hon.
John Eaton, Mrs. Maria T. Walling, Hon.
John Hitz; Secretary, Dr. Wm. Tindall; Treas-
urer, Rev. A. Floridus Steele. General John
Eaton was elected delegate to the general
meeting of the American Social Science Asso-
ciation at Saratoga, September 5, 1881, and
Hon. John Hitz was elected alternate. Mrs.
Spencer, who, at the May meeting, was elected
delegate to the convention of the Associated
Charities Department of American Social
Science Association at Boston, July 25, re-
quested that an alternate be elected. Mrs.
Walling was elected alternate. Instructions
were then given as to the subjects the District
association desired their delegate to represent
at this Boston conference. It was especially
urged that the duty the whole country owes to
the charities and other interests of this national
capital be clearly stated. The resident mem-
bers of the American Social Science Associa-
tion in Washington are Pres. Garfield, Gen.
Francis A. Walker, Hon. John Eaton, Presi-
dent Welling, of Columbia College, President
Gallaudet, of the Deaf Mute Asylum, Charles
Nordhoff, of the Herald, and (ex-officio) the
president, secretary and treasurer of the Dis-
trict of Columbia Association.—The Evening
Star, Washington, D. C.
	SPENCERIAN Business College Commence-
ment, May 25, 1881. Lincoln Hall, Washing-
ton, D. C., was beautifully decorated in honor
of the graduating class of 1881. "The stage
was gracefully draped with flags and streamers,
and adorned with the shields of the States and
nations represented by the graduates, and in
the foreground were banks of floral offerings
from admiring friends."
	There was music by Donch's orchestra, and
Professor and Mrs. Spencer, Rev. Chauncey
Giles, President of the Swedenborgian Conven-
tion, Hon. Francis A. Walker, Superintendent
of the Census, and other distinguished people
were upon the platform. The salutatory was
delivered by D. E. McIlhinny, in which he

[Column 2]
made a hit at the lavish waste of time by the
U. S. Senate, which was heartily applauded;
Following this a piano solo, Oberon, and then
"the ladies' valedictory was delivered by Miss
Adele M. Garesche, of Missouri. It was a fine
production, teeming with rich thought, the
chief idea being that although woman's pur-
pose in life will ever be to secure the happiness
of those dear to her, yet all humanity should
be dear to her, and her sphere limited only by
her capacity."
	Valedictory in behalf of the gentlemen
graduates gave evidence of original thought
and close observation of men and events. "He
made a strong argument in favor of business
pursuits as developing the resources, founding
and sustaining the charities and improving the
condition of the whole world. His voice and
bearing and the fine points he made won re-
peated applause."
	Piano solo, The Storm, by a young lady.
	Mrs. Sara A. Spencer addressed the lady
graduates, telling them the world needed them
somewhere, and she trusted they would not
cheapen the value of their labor by besieging
members of Congress for "influence" to get a
chance to earn their bread. A Cabinet minis-
ter (Secretary Windom) had told her three-
fourths of his time was consumed in this man-
ner. She said Gen. Francis A. Walker had
reformed the civil service by setting an exam-
ple which other departments must soon follow,
of appointing women and promoting them
upon merit and efficiency on equal terms with
men."
	Prof. Spencer addressed the young gentle-
men, "calling their attention to the inspiring
history of James A. Garfield."
	"Rev. Chauncey Giles gave them an open
secret to business success—a worthy purpose."
	"Gen. Francis A. Walker then made a brief
but eloquent address, in which he stated his
own personal experience with the graduates of
the Spencerian Business College. He said the
work in his bureau was for a limited time, but
being statistical it was a severe test of mental
training and executive ability. He presented
a schedule containing the names of seventeen
graduates of this college in his bureau. Of
these not one had proven unreliable or incom-
petent or inefficient. All were ranked above
the average, and nine had attained the highest
possible record in their divisions. In behalf
of the public service it gave him pleasure to
say he would regard a diploma of graduation
from the Spencerian Business College as a suf-
ficient guarantee of qualifications without fur-
ther endorsement. It gave him peculiar pride
and pleasure to award the diplomas to this class
of '81."
	"He then, in a most pleasing and graceful
manner, awarded the diplomas."


