Guide_Lessons | Title: Guide Lessons for October --]

Canon Girdlestone, in discussing the article, says in pertinent emphasis of Mary's status as a princess of royal blood through descent from David, "When the angel was foretelling to Mary the birth of the Holy, Child, he said: 'The Lord God shall give him the throne of his father David, Mary would have answered, I am not yet married to Joseph, whereas, she did answer simply: 'I am an unmarried woman' which plainly implies that if I were married, since I am descended from David, I could infuse my royal blood into a son but how can I have a royal son, while I am a virgin?"
The human nature of Jesus made it possible for him to be tempted through appetite, ambition for notoriety, and yearning for wealth and power. His divine nature enabled him to silence Satan. Matthew 4:1-11.
"1. Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil.
"2, And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward an hungred.
"3. And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread.
"4. But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God.
"5. Then the devil taketh him up into the holy city, and setteth him on a pinnacle of the temple.
"6, And saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down; for it is written, he shall give his angels charge concerning thee: and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.
"7, Jesus said unto him, It is written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.
"8. Again, the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain, and sheweth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them;
"9. And saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me.
"10. Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan; for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.
"11. Then the devil leaveth him, and behold angels came and ministered unto him."
His human nature found him weary at the well humbly asking and graciously receiving a drink at the hands of the woman. Of Samaria. His divine nature opened to him the secrets of her soul and caused him to offer her the cup of everlasting life. Reference: John 4:7-10.

"7, There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink.
"8. (For his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy meat. );
"9 Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans.
"10. Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water."
At the call of human nature he slumbered on the Sea of Galilee in the midst of a storm; his divine nature gave his command over the winds and the waves. Reference Matthew 8: 23-27.
"23. And when he was entered into a ship, his disciples followed him.
"24. And behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves: but he was asleep.;
"25. And he saith unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? Then he arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea; and there was a great calm. But the men marveled, saying, What manner of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him?"
His human nature at Gethsemane caused him to shrink from the indescribable impending agony; his divine nature made. It possible for him to bear up under the accumulated sins of ages.
Was it not his human nature that called forth the question on the cross, "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?" Certainly it was his divine nature by which he declared the completion of the sacrifice in the words, "It is finished." John 19:30. When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished: and he bowed his head, and gave up the ghost.
Reference: Luke 22: 41-44, "41. And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast, and kneeled down, and prayed,,
"42. Saying, Father, if thou be willing remove this cup from me; nevertheless, not my will, but thine, be done.
"43. And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him.
"44. And being in an agony, he prayed more earnestly: and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground."
Matthew 27:46. "And the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying E'li, E'li, la'ma sa-bach'tha-ni? That is to say, My, God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?".
Jesus came not to destroy human nature but to subordinate it to divine nature.
2. Elaborate this thought: The sacrifice was finished on the cross but the redemption awaited the resurrection.
In the light of his mission, show the necessity for the super-divinity of Christ.
4, Give one or more examples of the dual nature of Jesus, other than those used in this lesson.
II, III. IV.