[Vol27 | August 1940 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Magazine Drive]

1940 Magazine Drive
SEPTEMBER 15 to October 15 is the time assigned to Relief Society for its annual Magazine drive. Plans should now be under way in all stakes and wards, missions and branches, to make the 1940 drive the most successful up to date. The outstanding record made in 1939 is a challenge to our best efforts. Success depends upon conversion to the work, careful planning and united effort. Alert, energetic Magazine representatives, supported by enthusiastic executive officers and a loyal Relief Society membership are sure to attain their goals.
534
The goal of the drive is a subscription list equal to the total number of enrolled Relief Society members. Each ward and branch Magazine representative reporting a subscription list equal to 75 per cent or above of the total enrollment of her ward or branch as of December 31, 1939, will have her ward or branch record and her name published on the Honor Roll in the December issue of the Magazine. Stakes and missions securing a subscription list equal to 75 per cent of their total enrollment as of December 31, 1939, will also have their records published, together with the name of the stake or mission Magazine representative. All subscriptions taken from October 15, 1939, to October 15, 1940, are to be included in figuring 1940 percentages. Subscriptions taken after October 15, 1940, will be included in the 1941 drive. Detailed rules for the conduct of the drive and the earning of awards,
 
supplies such as receipt books and order blanks, and forms on which to report to the General Board at the end of the drive, will be mailed to the stakes sufficiently early for the drive. Helpful suggestions for the successful conduct of the drive, given in the Magazine department at Relief Society general conference, April 1940, are summarized in this issue of the Magazine beginning on page 543. The General Board deeply appreciates the work done by the Magazine representatives. In past years they have worked enthusiastically, efficiently and unselfishly. They have rendered a valuable service to the General Board, to the local organizations and to the thousands of women who are now subscribers. The goals attained in the past, the spirit with which the work has been carried forward, the good resulting from the activity justify the prediction of another outstanding drive in 1940. The General Board extends its best wishes for a banner year.
TWO EDITIONS OF ADAM BEDE
ATTENTION is called to the June Relief Society Magazine, page 423, in which the books for the Literature course for 1940-41 are announced. The book Adam Bede is available in two editions, and but one of these needs to be chosen. Ward and stake literature class leaders should make a choice between the two editions of Adam Bede which are offered and specify in their orders to the Deseret Book Company which one of the two they desire.
"There's no dearth of kindness In this world of ours; Only in our blindness We gather thorns for flowers." ?Gerald Massey.