[Vol27 | August 1940 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature: The Modern Novel Lesson 2 - Adam Bede]

Literature
THE MODERN NOVEL
Lesson 2
Adam Bede (Tuesday, November 19)
Lesson Topics
1. Brief review
2. The setting
3. The characters
Review
The last lesson gave briefly the story or plot of Adam Bede—the love of Adam for Hetty Sorrel, her love for Arthur Donnithorne, their sin and its resulting effects upon Hetty, leading her to the greater crime of infant-murder, Adam's desperate effort to save her from execution, Arthur's remorse and intervention, her deportation and death in a foreign land, Arthur's sacrifice to atone for his weakness, and Adam's ultimate happiness in marriage to Dinah Morris. The theme, or central idea, that every act is followed by inevitable consequences which often affect many lives was pointed out. We see how the sin of Hetty and Arthur brings tragedy to themselves and to others, even to Adam who is wholly blameless, as are so many in actual life who suffer because of the weaknesses or sins of others. In lesson two, other phases of the novel will be considered, particularly the setting and the characters.
Setting
One of the three essentials of the novel besides the plot, is the setting, or the time and place of the action of the story. It is from this phase of the novel that we receive much of the intellectual value previously mentioned. Many facts about the country, the manners and customs of the times, events in history, prevailing views and attitudes are almost unconsciously acquired through a careful study of the background. Adam Bede is a story of Warwickshire, England, in the nineteenth century. We first see Adam and his brother Seth at work in a carpenter shop. This shop is described accurately, as are the various parts of Hall Farm, the different units of the ancestral home of the Donnithornes, the rectory, and the humble home of the schoolmaster. So we become acquainted with many types of homes and the kinds of life lived in them. We are shown the church, the inn, the prison. We see the highways, meadows, and other phases of natural scenery. George Eliot suggests in the first sentence what she is going to do for us in the matter of setting. She says: "With a single drop of ink for a mirror the Egyptian sorcerer undertakes to reveal to any chance comer far-reaching visions of the past. That is what I undertake to do for you, reader. With this drop of ink on the end of my pen, I will show you the roomy workshop of Jonathan Burge, carpenter and builder, in the village of Hayslope, as it appeared on the eighteenth of June, in the year of our Lord 1799." Then she draws a picture of the room with five men at work, with Adam's dog asleep on a heap of shavings. She gives us the smell of the pine wood they are working on, of the elderberry blossoms beside the window; she gives the glint of the sunbeams shining through the transparent shavings that fly before the planes of the workmen. We are shown the Burge's home across the way with its "smooth gray thatch and buff walls looking pleasant and mellow in the evening light. The leaded windows were bright and speckless and the doorstone was as clean as a white boulder at ebb-tide." We are introduced to the characters as they go about their habitual work, and we see them as a part of the background which helps to make them what they are. We first meet Mrs. Burge standing out vividly on her doorstone, dressed in her dark-striped linen gown, red kerchief, and a linen cap, talking to her speckled fowls. We see the Poyser dairy: "Such coolness, such purity, such fresh fragrance of new-pressed cheese, of firm butter, of wooden vessels perpetually bathed in pure water, such soft colouring of red earthenware and creamy surfaces, brown wood and polished tin, grey limestone and rich orange-red rust on the iron weights and hooks and hinges...." She shows us Bartle Massey's home, where, despite the fact that "no woman but his dog Vixen" was allowed to enter, his table was "as clean as if Vixen had been an excellent housewife in a checkered apron; clean also was the quarried floor and the old carved oaken press."
In contrast to this small abode is the rector's home with its "large and lofty dining room with an ample mullioned oriel window at one end, new walls not yet painted, but with old furniture, a threadbare, crimson cloth over the large dining table upon which stands a massive silver waiter with a coat-of-arms conspicuous on its center, a room which makes you suspect the inhabitants inherited more of blood than wealth."
Through such background details we understand the type of life the characters lived, for the author fuses the setting with characterization and plot. She describes the church as she presents the activities centering there; such as, regular services or a funeral. She shows us an open-air Methodist service at which the lovable preacher, Dinah Morris, presides. Aside from the interest she creates in the characters of Dinah and her varied listeners, and their responses to her sermon, she gives us many significant facts about the Methodist Church.
Woven with the picture of the festival at Squire Donnithorne's estate, there are many interesting details about various social classes in England—their customs and traditions, significant events of national importance that are before the public; such as, war with France, the activities of Napoleon, the reactions of the people to their times. It is evident, then, that much knowledge may be gained from the setting. Our intellectual horizons are measurably widened at the same time that we are enjoying the story. Knowledge gained in this way has, perhaps, even more truth than that acquired in the formal processes of learning; for as someone has said, "History tells us what men have done. Literature in addition tells us how they felt about it, which is of even greater significance."
Characters
There are also ethical values to be gained from a study of the novel. These values are closely tied up with the characters, their ideals, their attitudes, their philosophies of life as they face the realities of their world. We may know characters in a book better than it is possible to know people in real life. The author reveals to us their motives, factors of heredity, the influence of environment which help to make them what they are and which cause them to respond to life as they do. We may apply such knowledge of human behavior learned from novels to real characters about us, and so come to know them better. Of the characters in this novel the central one is Adam Bede, a man whose ideals and integrity we admire and long to make our own. He believes that:
"There's the sperit o' God in all things and all times, week day as well as Sunday, and in the great works and inventions; and God helps us with our head pieces and our hands as well as with our souls, and if a man does bits o' jobs out o' working hours—builds a' oven for's wife to save her from going to the bake house, or scratches at his bit o' garden and makes two potatoes grow instead o' one, he's doing more good and he's just as near God as if he was running after some preacher and a groaning." He also says, however, that "if a man gets religion he'll do his work none the worse for it."
Adam has a passion for work and a great pride in doing his best, no matter what the task. When quitting time comes, the other men in the carpenter shop drop whatever they are doing and prepare to leave. One man throws down his hammer as he is in the act of lifting it; another leaves a screw half driven in.
"Adam alone had gone on with his work as if nothing had happened. He said to the others in a tone of indignation, 'Look there now! I can't abide to see men throw away their tools in that way the minute the clock begins to strike, as if they took no pleasure in their work and was afraid of doing a stroke too much.'"
He has a keen sense of duty toward his parents, although he has no patience with his drinking father. Once he felt as if he could endure the burden of providing for the family and the disgust of seeing his father come home drunk no longer, and he ran away.
"But he thought of his mother and Seth left behind to endure everything without him, and he came back the next day. Realizing the misery and torture his mother had suffered in his absence, he resolved that that could never happen again. He said, 'If you've got a man's heart and soul you can't be easy making your own bed and leaving the rest to lie on the stones.'"
He is very independent and is not cowed by those above him in social rank. Though he and Arthur Donnithorne, despite their difference in social status, had been friends for years, and though Arthur had given him a position which would insure his economic independence and a chance to do the kind of work he liked, when he discovered that Arthur was trifling with Hetty's affections he fearlessly confronted him:
"I don't know what you mean by flirting, but if you mean behaving to a woman as if you loved her and not loving her at all the while, I say that's not the action of an honest man, and what isn't honest comes to harm.... I'll not be soon forgot as you've come between her and me; you've robbed me of my happiness while I thought you was my best friend and a noble-minded man I was proud to work for. And you've been kissing her and meaning nothing, have you? And I never kissed her in my life—but I'd ha' worked hard for years for the right to kiss her. And you make light of it.... I throw back your favors, for you're not the man I took you for.... You don't want to fight me because you think I'm a common as you can injure without answering for it.... I tell you you're a double faced man. I won't go away without fighting you.... You're a coward and a scoundrel, and I despise you."
Yet, after the duel, Adam cares for Arthur as he would have done for a brother. His love for Hetty is pathetic. Terrible as her sin is, he stands by her to the end. He says to Dinah after the trial—Hetty's trial for murder when they think she is to be hanged: "If only I could have done anything to save her—if my bearing anything would ha' done any good!" And when he goes to the prison to tell her good-by, and she asks his forgiveness for the wrong she has done him, he says with a half sob, "Yes, I forgave thee Hetty. I forgave thee long ago."
The above quotations indicate but a few points in Adam's admirable character. The book is filled with them. He is not perfect, but he is splendidly human.
It would be interesting, if space permitted, to discuss and illustrate traits of the other characters. Each one is worthy of special consideration, his philosophy, his visions and struggles give a sense of the fundamental nobility in human nature. In such he points the ethical values in the study of the novel.
Teaching Helps
1. By which method, direct or indirect, does George Eliot chiefly present her characters? Illustrate.
2. What are Seth's outstanding characteristics? Give some quotations to uphold your views.
3. How may Mrs. Bede's character help mothers to avoid faults in regard to their children and their own happiness?
4. Analyze Hetty's character and discuss the part environment and heredity may have had in making her what she is.
5. Quote some of Mrs. Poyser's trenchant and amusing sayings.
6. The chief problem of the novelist is to create an illusion of reality. Mention some of the means by which George Eliot achieves this illusion.