[Vol27 | August 1940 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Guide | Title: Work-and-Business Nutrition Lesson 2: Health for Your Eyes]
Work-and-Business
NUTRITION
Lesson 2
Health for Your Eyes (Tuesday, November 12)
NUTRITIONAL CARE OF THE EYES
Good general nutrition is reflected in the eyes. Eye health is now known to be affected specifically by vitamins A, B, and C.
VITAMIN A AND EYE HEALTH
Vitamin A prevents and cures Xerophthalmia, which is the Greek name for dry eye. Deficiency of this vitamin affects the epithelial tissues of the eyes and tear-secreting glands. Total blindness results if vitamin A deficiency continues too long. Nutritional night blindness, which is the inability to see in dim light, is another result of a diet low in vitamin A. Night blindness comes on so gradually that vision may be impaired without the person realizing it. People concerned with nutrition research feel that the prevalent low vitamin A diets may be the cause of many automobile accidents which occur after dark or in the dim twilight. Lack of vitamin A affects the rods of the retina, thus narrowing the range of vision. Car drivers so afflicted fail to see cross traffic when approaching intersections. They may not see pedestrians at the side of the road. Their side vision is not sufficient to prevent them from cutting in to cars running by their side. Vitamin A regenerates the visual purple in the retina of the eye and sharpens one's sense of color discrimination. Fish liver oils, liver, fish roe, egg yolk, butter and cheese are our best animal sources of vitamin A. The best vegetable sources are the green, leafy and the yellow-colored ones, such as spinach, kale, escarole, chard, beet greens, carrots. Tomatoes, apricots, prunes, and yellow peaches are also very good sources.
VITAMIN B FOR EYE HEALTH
Keratitis is a blinding eye disease which affects the cornea. Lack of riboflavin, a member of the vitamin B complex, is now seen to be the cause of keratitis. Clinical tests using this vitamin with patients whose vision was badly impaired resulted in a restoration of normal vision. Best food sources of riboflavin are liver, milk, eggs, and the dark green, leafy vegetables.
VITAMIN C FOR EYE HEALTH
Diabetic patients frequently have impaired vision due to bleeding from the tiny veins and arteries in the retina. Vitamin C strengthens the fragile walls of these blood vessels and keeps this bleeding tendency under control. In the clinical tests, the use of the vitamin B complex along with vitamin C showed marked improvement in this eye condition. Brewers yeast and liver were used as the sources of the B complex.
