Mining men grind, wash, smelt and apply chemical processes to release the finer, valuable metals from those of little or no worth. Men give their most creative thought and risk their entire wealth to discover and refine the precious metals of Mother Earth. Man is not ore, yet there are elements in his life which remind us of ore both in a state of nature and during the refining process. Within the nature of each of us are capacities and appetites which may develop into qualities ugly or beautiful, weak or strong, base or noble. And within our social environment?something quite as much a part of our life as the physical body?are to be found countless things coarse and fine, good and bad. We too need to be refined. Our impulses need legitimate and joybringing expression. We ought to select the good in our environment and pass by the bad. But how? We cannot be thrown into a blast furnace for purification, nor can the coarseness in our natures be washed and ground away. Mining processes are not applicable here. Still the refining of our lives cannot be left to chance nor taken for granted. It too calls for ingenious planning and resolute action. We all have within us the ability to make some choices which will ennoble our living. We also have influence over others. How can we, then, bring more graciousness, serenity, strength, and beauty into our own lives and into the lives of our children, neighbors, and_ fellow Church members? The question is indeed a large one. Our sole purpose here is to suggest a few ways in which the Gospel of Jesus Christ can refine daily living. The Gospel is so rich and all-inclusive that it may be profitably considered in several ways?as a system of beliefs, as our total religious life, or even as a very practical Page 655 philosophy which has given birth to such guides as the Word of Wisdom and the welfare program. In this article let us appraise it for its refining influence in daily life. Does it dignify human relations by eliminating that which is crude, mean, weak, base, shallow and superficial in favor of things good and beautiful? OUR behavior is an expression of our view of life. Actions grow out of beliefs. Convictions help shape our deeds. What a man believes about his own life and that of others measureably determines what he says and does. The first contribution the Gospel can make toward refined living is an inspiring view of one's own life. Every believer in the Gospel can say to himself under all conditions: "I am eternal. My intelligence 'was not created nor made.' There is something in me that has always existed and shall never die. I shall live on forever as an individual. "And there are no limits to the possibilities for growth and self-realization of this my eternal life. I am 'that I might have joy.' My life is basically good and purposeful and may become more so. "I became a child of God, created in his image. He whose glory is intelligence, whose name is Creator, whose attributes are love, goodness, mercy, and justice is my Father and my ideal. He strives to lead me to the life abundant which is His. He wants me to learn the meaning of love, mercy, goodness, and creativity, that life may be full of joy. "And I am free to act for myself, for the Lord has said, 'Men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness, for the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves.' "As an eternal being with freedom to choose the right, a child of God with unlimited capacity for joybringing growth, I may share increasingly in all that the Father is seeking to. Achieve in the lives of men." Surely in such a view of life there is no room for cynicism, and despair. Cheap, shallow, base and vulgar living must give way, for the Gospel idealizes life and keeps our vision and our yearnings directed upward. AND that which we believe about our own life, Jesus insists we believe about the lives of others. So much has been taught about individual differences recently, and rightly so, that we forget how much men still have in common. Our basic needs ? food, shelter, clothing, friends, faith, love, and recognition ?we share. Jesus knew this when he said, "Love thy neighbor as thyself." Paul had become a real Christian when he preached to the Athenians that God "hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth." In nothing do we reveal the presence of the Gospel of Jesus Christ or the lack of it in our lives so quickly as in our relations with others. The Author of the Gospel lived nobly, and one secret of his refinement lies, we believe, in his attitude toward others. Jesus does not leave us in doubt.. He believed in the worth and sacredness of every human soul. Since He lived and spoke we know that to be His follower means to hold life in reverence. Only those who truly hold life in 

 ?OCTOBER, 1941

 THE REFINING INFLUENCE OF THE GOSPEL reverence are pure in heart, merciful, peaceful, and self-sacrificing. The Savior's own reverence for life is revealed again and again in the Gospels. An incident in Mark will illustrate His spirit: A certain woman, ill for twelve years, "had suffered many things of many physicians and had spent all that she had, and was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse. When she had heard of Jesus, came in the press behind and touched his garment: For she said, 'If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole.'... And she felt in her body that she was healed of that plague. And Jesus, immediately knowing in himself that virtue had gone out of him,... Said, "Who touched my clothes?' " His disciples, less sensitive at this time to the touch of faith and the ills of men than their Lord, could see and feel only the multitude. So they said unto Jesus, "Thou seest the multitude thronging thee, and sayest thou, "Who touched me?'"" If we let the woman assume the major role in this story, it becomes a great lesson in faith. Focus our attention on Jesus and we gain another. It is this: Do we see others as a multitude, in crowds, as belonging to this category or that, or as individuals with much the same desires as we and our children have? as persons who need our virtue and our strength? Ig is easy to profess faith in this refined, considerate view of life which Jesus taught, but in a world of war and hate, economic struggle and greed, noise and haste, and multiple shallow and superficial interests it is quite another thing to live it. For these undesirable features of con- 657 temporary living dull our finer sensibilities and hinder the realization of a rich emotional life.