Rising Prices?How To Meet Them Fern M. Kimball District Home Management Supervisor, Farm Security Administration 66 WE, hear much talk about the increased cost of living. Thus far this is largely propaganda," says Roger Babson. "In July, 1941, living costs are ten percent below 1929 while wages are ten percent higher. During this war there has been an increase in the United States of only five percent, and that largely in cities and defense areas. When farm prices reach parity, there will be a slowing down in the rate of increase. "The honest answer to this entire cost of living question is this: If we insist upon having the same things in the same amount as before September, 1939, then our cost of living will go up considerably. If, however, we will be satisfied with certain substitutes that are nearly as good and perhaps healthier, and if we will cut out waste we will have nothing to fear. However, look for real growing pains in the defense effort. Controls will soon begin to grip. Expect virtual elimination of civilian uses for many nonessentials. Supplies of luxuries will shorten; merchants will be unable to restock. There will be further demands of simplification and standardization of consumers' items, but even this need not increase the honest cost of living, which is very different from the habits of living." We see in this statement a forecast for the need of making sacrifice of the nonessentials, the elimination of waste, and the use of the "just as good," but not the same, as we have been using. This is the appeal now being made to the people of our nation both for consumer protection and for defense needs. The civilian consumer is being given every consideration along with the defense program. From the Consumer Division, Office of Civilian Supply, help is being given to keep prices in line through price stabilization, through appeals for self-restraint, through the spreading of sound economic information, through the development and use of standards and informative labeling, through discouraging "scare advertising" and through curbing installment buying. The Consumer Division is working with public and private organizations to educate and give protection to consumers. Harriett Elliott, Consumer Commissioner of the Consumer Division, in her article "Price and Supply in the Home Front" writes, "Every increase in food prices places a burden on the low-income consumer. The food prices occurring at the present time constitute a burden which must be lightened by redoubled efforts to make possible wise buying, to assist consumers to know and use less expensive foods which give the same food values, and to promote special programs which put food of high nutritive value within reach of all families. Increased prices make imperative the much wider use of quality standards and grades to enable consumers to compare products, stretch their food pennies and make their food purchases fit their needs. Price itself is meaningless without quality. Price controls cannot be administered unless a price applies to a specific quality." "Civilian demands for goods must be adjusted as closely as possible to supplies available for consumption," Marriner S. Eccles says. "By deferring civilian demand at this time we can help avoid inflation, we can aid in defense, and we can store up a backlog of buying power that will help offset a post-defense slump." When the supply will not meet the demand, prices always go up. With all that is being done to stabilize price levels, consumers will have higher prices to meet. To know the facts as they exist, to meet them with courage and with understanding, to follow advice of those who are in a position to give correct information and sound advice, is the responsibility of the consumer, and it is the action which will help him to meet rising prices. Purchasing of goods on the installment plan has enabled the consumer to have articles which he otherwise would have had to wait for, but this system of credit has limited the purchasing power of the consumer. The high rates of interest paid on installment purchases have made the purchase price very much higher than it otherwise would have been. In paying more for the goods than he would have done had he purchased them for cash or at interest rates lower than those usually charged for installment purchases, the consumer has used some of his income that could have been saved for the purchase of other goods. Curtailment of installment credit will limit the purchasing of nonessential goods; in turn, it will extend purchasing power for the essential goods, and it will create a demand for goods during the postdefense period, which will help to keep industry going and prices for consumer goods adjusted to that of normal times. A CONCEPT of the essentials and the nonessentials in our living today will do a great deal to give us "honest living." A concept of the basic human needs?the essentials in building strong, healthy, happy individuals?is important to us in meeting the living problems of today. Enterprising families have found that it is important to make a careful estimate of the necessary expenses for family living. 'They realize that they need to have a fairly accurate estimate of the amount of food that will keep the family healthy and growing. Forty percent of the American people do not have adequate diets. Fifty percent more green vegetables are needed and seventy percent more tomatoes and citrus fruits. |More eggs, fish, and meats, more whole grains, more milk and milk products are needed. These protective foods should be put into the pattern of eating every day. Hungry people, undernourished people, ill people, do not make a strong nation. The amount to be expended for food will depend on what the family can produce and preserve for its own use, the substitutes it can use without sacrificing essential food factors, and its knowledge of how to prepare foods to preserve and conserve food nutrients. Wise meal planners will learn the season when different 

 ?OCTOBER, 1941

 RISING PRICES--HOW TO MEET THEM foods are cheapest, the most economical forms in which food comes, and the most economical quantities in which to buy foods. "A good diet cannot be judged so much by the cost as by the elements the different foods supply. How to get the most of these at a cost within the limits of income is the responsibility of the homemaker. Even within income limits good meals can be had, but it takes knowledge to make sure that they supply what the body needs. If orange juice is too high as a source of Vitamin C, it is possible to get adequate amounts from tomato juice, cabbage, salads and fruits in season." Prices and quality standards for other items besides foods have a direct bearing on the consumer's food budget since expenditures for these items often crowd the food budget. UP to the present time, the consumer has felt very little hardship in the way of rising prices in clothing, but now budgets need to provide for this as there is evidence that there will be some rise in clothing prices. To get the most for our dollar, we will need to know the changes that are being made in materials, styles, weaves, workmanship, et cetera. Naturally, there will be a tendency on the part of the consumer to purchase a cheaper article, but this may mean waste and inefficiency in the home. Goods bought for a purpose they do not serve, clothes that do not wear well, must be replaced. "When the purchaser makes his purchase he should be armed with intelligence and information to know whether a shirt at one dollar or a dress at five dollars 671 is in reality cheaper than one which costs more." A planned clothing program including wise buying, home construction of clothing, and good care of clothing will be important if the clothing needs are met. To prevent further increases in rents, the Consumer Division is assisting local communities to set up "Fair Rent Committees" that will make a study of conditions and do what they can to hold rents to a pre-defense level and give families healthy living conditions, To conserve purchasing powcr, consumers can buy coal in the summer when prices are lower. It has been customary in many localities for retail coal dealers to offer substantial discounts during the summer months for the purchase of coal. Consumers can work together to secure the cooperation of coal dealers. The Consumer Division of the Civilian Supply Administration ls enlisting interest in a campaign whereby communities can carry on an educational program and secure the necessary factual information to help them determine good purchasing values. Consumers should insist upon knowing why any price is increased or whether the price in any locality is out of line with prices in other places. A bimonthly bulletin, "Consumer Prices," is now sent out to furnish information about supplies and prices of food, clothing, shelter, home furnishings and other articles of consumer expenditure so_ that consumers may plan their buying "This bulletin will be available through the Consumer Division of county defense councils. wiscly, make the best use of commodities, and learn good substitutes for articles prohibitive because of price. HEN the basic physical necessities are planned for, then the flexible necessities should be considered and planned for?medical, educational and social needs. ? Until these essentials must be limited or sacrificed, the family budget should provide for them. We may need to be ingenious in order to secure these - essentials for satisfactory living. If we as consumers can restrain from purchasing the nonessentials. If we can substitute those commodities of which there is a greater supply than demand for those we are used to purchasing, if we can produce more of our food and clothing, if we will take better care of clothing and equipment so that usefulness is extended, if we will eliminate all forms of waste, if we will plan our expenditures to meet essential needs, if we will study and obtain all information possible for better buymanship, if we will make use of standards and informative labeling, we will be able to meet rising costs and have satisfactory living. Ever since the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, similar advice has been given. Faith in the counsel given us, observance of the principles of the Gospel and a willingness to make the necessary sacrifices, will give us courage to meet the economic conditions in this emergency period.