Editor - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman OCTOBER, 1941 No. 10 Vol. 28 EDITORIAL ~~ Conference Values PROVERBS 24:6 says: "In a multitude of counselors there is safety." The organization of our Church is unique in that it provides a constantly traveling counsel. Through the activities of the General Authorities and the various general boards, missions and stakes are regularly visited; their achievements are recognized, and their problems are brought to light. Counsel is given to leaders as well as to members. They, in turn, are privileged to offer counsel, and many excellent suggestions are given for the stimulation and advancement of the work of the Church. Returning to Church headquarters, general officers, meeting in counsel under the direction of inspired leaders, discuss these achievements and problems and carefully evaluate suggestions and recommendations which have been made. Plans, based upon these, are made for future activity. Many of these plans, together with plans and counsel that are the result of direct inspiration, are presented to leaders and members who assemble in general conferences. Each conference the best that has been gleaned from all over the Church is presented in organized form. Plans and precepts are given which, if carried out, will bring strength to the Church, abundant life to the individual, and the world will be made a better place in which to live. The Relief Society holds two general conferences each year. The April conference gives special emphasis to the Relief Society welfare work, which is the basic work of the Society. Special activities, such as music, Magazine work, et cetera, are also given consideration. The October conference features the educational program. An excerpt from an old Relief Society publication reveals the place of education in our program. It states: "This Society, though basically philanthropic, is also educational, in the best and highest sense of the word, dealing with all subjects that tend toward the elevation and advancement of women in all lines of thought and action." Page 685 The educational conference this October is particularly important. New courses of study are being introduced, designed to increase our understanding of the Gospel, to help us cope with the pronounced strains and stresses of life today, and to help us extract joy from everyday living. Class leaders have perhaps never been more challenged than they are this year. Our greatly increased membership, due to the intensive activities of the membership-building program, calls upon them for classwork of the highest quality. Upon class leaders will depend, to a marked degree, the interest of new members in the Society and their desire to remain with it as active members. Class leaders will do well to visualize for a moment their influence as teachers of approximately 100,000 mothers and homemakers. Our educational courses, properly taught, should promote personal growth for every class member; they should elevate standards in the homes; through the increased knowledge and understanding of mothers, children should be influenced to appreciate and want the finer things of life, things which have enduring values; testimonies of the truth of the Gospel should be strengthened, and the work of the Lord advanced. Picture for a moment the peace, the happiness, the stability, the power of 100,000 homes presided over by women who have been so influenced by our educational program. Seeing this, class leaders have a vision of their possibilities and responsibilities, and their place in the work of Relief Society is made plain. The October conference should be of inestimable value to class leaders in helping them to efficiently meet their responsibilities and to realize their full possibilities. Valuable as are our conferences in directing and interpreting the work, these are not the only values to be derived from them. Other values, perhaps even greater, should be received. We should be fired anew with a testimony of the divinity of our organization; our faith should be renewed; we should be inspired with a love for the work of the Church. We should go back to the sisterhood of our local organizations full to overflowing with the glory of our calling. Then, this conversion, this enthusiasm, should be transmitted to approximately 100,- ooo women who are our Relief Society members. Can you see the power in this, and its influence for good? When we review all that is to be gained from our general conferences, we recognize their importance and are grateful for the many values which they hold for us. 

 ?OCTOBER, 1941