
[the following is written diagonally at the top of the page]
L[---]

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 26.7 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1 & 15, 1898. NOS. 1 & 2.


CONTENTS:
	Madame Mountford’s Letter. The Mothers’
Congress. General Relief Society Conference
Clara Barton talks of the Red Cro s. An Ap-
preciative Letter—Lucinda B. Chandler. U W.
P. C. Women in Art Welcome to Mission-
aries—Ezra T. Stevenson. Biographical Sketch—
Phebe C. Sessions. Royal Family of Spain—
Luella M Rhodes. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL:—Utah Women a d Newspapers.
Things of Interest. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Childhood—Hyacinth. The Mason
and the Stone—E. K.


CHILDHOOD.

Airy, fairy, little lass,
Tripping through the dewy grass,
Picking flowers from the mass,
Lying round you as you pass.
Softly, sweetly trill a lay,
Waking music all the way;
Forest echoes round you play,
Ringing all the live-long day.
Lightly, smoothly speed along,
Quickly as the agi e fawn,
Leaving naught behind whereon
There can smile another dawn.
Happy elfin careful tread,
Where the forest joys are fled,
And the winding river’s bed,
To the sea its waters [-]ed.
Smiling, careless lassie dear,
Changes in your path appear,
Making all the world seem drear,
Filling your blithe heart with fear.
Noisy, turbid waters ring,
Foaming spray they outward fli g,
Fleet as birds upon the wing,
While they angry sonnets sing.
Strongly, firmly weave a strand,
Binding like an iron band,
Where the waters meet the land,
Grasping with a mighty hand.
Fleeting fading, oh, how fast,
Glides the present to the past;
Now your life its spring has passed,
And in summer’s mold is cast.
Forest whispers nevermore,
Breathe the song they did before;
Childhood dream[-] for thee are o’er,
Woman’s scepter’s at your door.
HYACINTH
May 19, 1898.


[Column 1]
MADAME MOUNTFORD’S LETTER.

	You ask what I am doing here. Trying
to rest, is my reply; but it is not an idle
rest, but of that kind that says “a change
of work is as good as a rest,” hence I have
only changed my work. Though I am not
lecturing to thousands in halls as is my
custom to do, from afar I am daily coming
in contact with the hearts of people of var-

[Column 2]
ious religions, races and complexions, liter-
ally speaking, small and great, rich and poor,
free and bond—so that every day my recep-
tion room is crowded with people from
every station in life, who come to call upon
me and have a chat after my long absence.
Religion predominates everything in this
land, and as each race or organization here
in Jerusalem stands alone, proud and un-
bending with a strong disposition to des-
pise all but one’s own creed, it is very dif-
ficult for the members of these conflicting
creeds to associate much together, hence my
work is no small one in having them treat
each other in the most cordial manner in
my drawing room. I am glad to say that
my personality among them seems to have
the effect of removing all feelings of rancour
that might exist between them religiously,
and we have delightful conversations and
each goes away glad to have met the other
and surprised to find that there is so much
good outside of one’s own immediate circle.
I am, therefore, kept so busy all day and
even in the night hours, that I get very
little time for correspondence. My life here
is just as busy as when I am at work in
England or the United States, only that it
is of a different nature in its detail work. I
must have been born under a perpetual mo-
tion state, I am always on the move and the
day is never too long for me but rather flies
too fast.
	I am glad to hear that you are going to
interest your girls in mission work, the
glorious time is at hand when there will be
no difference between male and female, all
are one in Jesus Christ. “Say ye to the
daughters of Zion: Behold thy salvation
cometh.’ ”
	We get very little news here regarding
the war and I hope ere this reaches you
peace will have been declared. What is
my opinion of war? that it is one of the
greatest curses on earth. I hate the very
idea of it. War brings every evil in its
trail, it arouses the worst passions of man
to shed man’s blood. To me the jubilation
aroused by regiments going to battle, and
the enthusiasm and plaudits of the multi-
tude in cheering their soldiers is still a relic
of barbarism in humanity. There is some-
thing in my nature that revolts at this glee
at the idea of shedding human gore—it is
like the savages dancing with delight at the
sight of the blood of their captives. To
slay the temple of the living God in any
shape, form or manner is to me a crime, and
the thirst for human blood once aroused in
a country is not so easily quenched, especi-
ally among the vicious and depraved.
Everything beautiful in literature and art
gets a set back in times of war; peaceful
pursuits are stifled—the land is filled with
orphans and widows who are left to fight
the battle of life single handed, and they in
their turn become degraded and slaves to
those who pretend to fight for their freedom.
I am more than surprised that so many
American women advocated this war, I
thought they would rise up as one man and
demand peace. What good is our educa-
tion if we cannot settle matters by arbitra-

[Column 3]
tion? Oh, the hideousness of war in these
civilized days! In freeing poor Cuba how
many noble American women and children
will become slaves in the factories and
dwell in the slums of our large cities. But
enough! You may not have the same
views as myself on the subject. To me
war is an abomination. Perhaps it may do
Cuba good, but it is sure to bring to Amer-
ica much that is bad. The war taxes are
diminishing the strength of the people, for
when bread and all eatables become higher
in price the poor have to suffer and eat less
and hence poverty and crime are grafted on
a country. God save America. I think
her intentions were good—but has she alto-
gether gone into this war for unselfish
reasons, simply and solely to free Cuba?
The people yes! but how about the politi-
cians that always sway the people?
	Oh for the true Christ spirit! Oh for the
the peace on earth!
	But all has to b[-] until righteousness shall
come upon the earth. God bless you all. I
am one and part of your country. I love
your stars and stripes, I am a loyal Ameri-
can! but I love to see justice done to every
human being, and I hate war.
Yours truly
L. M. VON F. MOUNTFORD.
Jerusalem.


THE MOTHERS' CONGRESS.

	Program of the Mothers' Congress to be
held in Salt Lake City, June 30, July 1
and 2.
	Thursday evening, June 30—Reception
to guests from the Denver Biennial and
others.
	Friday morning session—Some Prin-
ciples in Discipline. The Problem of the
Child's Freedom. The Children's Mother.
The Reconciliation of Duties.
	Friday afternoon session—Symposiums,
Cultivation of Moral qualities. Ten min-
ute talks on Truthfulness, Obedience,
Gentleness, Helpfulness, Reverence, Rights
of Others. The Mother as a Confident.
	Friday evening session—Platform meet-
ing, general subject, Motherhood as a Pro-
fession; Relative Importance among Pro-
fessions.
	Professional Training Associations—The
clubs, congresses, etc. The Father's Re-
sponsibility in Child Training.
	Sister Professions—The School and
Home. The Washington Congress.
	Saturday morning session—Hints in the
Care of Young Children. The Children's
Contact with Nature. The Sick Child.
Wider Motherhood.
	Saturday afternoon session—Children's
Stories, Children's Music—Illustrated.
The Mother's Incentive for Public Spirit.


All club women attending the Biennial
in Denver are requested to wear upon their
arrival a knot of light blue ribbon on the
shoulder, for identification by the reception
committe, members of which will wear the
colors yellow and white


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY
CONFERENCE.

(Continued)

	Afternoon session. Conference at 2 p.
m , Mrs. Young presiding. Singing “Re-
deemer of Israel.” Prayer by Counselor
B. W. Smith. Singing “Let those who
would be Saints indeed.”
	President Horne of Salt Lake Stake was
thankful to be remembered in the faith and
prayers of the Saints and glad that her life
was preserved. These conferences were to
feed us with the bread of life, if we did not
get food for our spirits we should die off,
spoke of the temporal mission of storing
grain given us by President Young, the
Lord said He would do nothing without
revealing it to His servants the prophets.
"If you cannot help to store grain you can
save a few cans of flour, it has been proven
it will keep twenty years. We see com-
motion all over the world, consider the
signs of the times, read the Bible, the
Book of Mormon and the sayings of the
modern prophets; read what President
Woodruff has said, the Savior’s coming is
near, we cannot avert the indignation of the
Lord, the earth is bringing to pass the pro-
phecies.
	Let us say like Joshua of old ‘As for me
and my house we will serve the Lord.' He
will fight  our battles, we shall not be held
guiltless if we do not keep His command-
ments. ‘If ye love not one another ye are
not mine,’ so said the Savior.
	Counselor Luna Thatcher of Cache Stake
said, “We have had advice in regard to
our younger sisters and we feel that there
has been quite a revival in the work of the
Society in our Stake, we do try to keep up
an earnestness among the sisters and we
seek the Spirit of the Lord to aid us in all
we say and do, we treasure up words of
counsel and instruction, we visit the sisters
in the wards and settlements and try to
keep up with all that is required.
	President Louisa Haight of Cassia Stake,
felt great timidity mingled with pleasure.
It was the first time she had had the op-
portunity to come and represent the Soci-
ety in the general conference. Said, “I
have had poor health and we have bad
roads and sometimes snow, but I made up
my mind to come this spring if possible.
We cannot draw near to each other as we
would like to do we are so scattered, part
of our Stake on one side, Cassia, and own
the divide the Goose Creek side. Last sum-
mer we visited all around, twelve hundred
miles through the vales and over the hills.
I feel my weakness and strive to overcome
my imperfections. I don’t know that there
is anything more to report, that we may be
united is my prayer."
	Sister Mary Bell Heywood of Panguitch,
was glad to see so many dear ones whose
names were familiar, but could see they've
grown old, the dear old faces. We have
between seven and eight hundred bushels of
wheat in our Stake, but some don’t believe
in our saving grain.” She rejoiced in
the work of the Relief Society and in meet-
ing her old friends, prayed the blessing of
the Lord on all our efforts.
	Sister Mary Bagley of Bear Lake Stake,
said, “We have a good amount of wheat
stored, we have twenty-four branches and
one organized within the last week, two
annual and semi-annual conferences and
two district conferences.  This is my first
attempt in reporting the Stake. I am grate-

[Column 2]
ful that I live in this age of the world when
the Prophet Joseph has revealed such
glorious principles for our salvation and
hope to prove faithful in all things and
to do some good in the Relief Society. Our
president is aged but she labors faithfully
and diligently to benefit and bless all.”
	President Elizabeth Yates of Millard
Stake said, “We don’t have this opportuni-
ty often, only when we come to conferences.
Our sisters are good, they do whatever they
are called upon to do, if there is any plan
to draw the sisters out I would like to
know and try it. I would like to know if
anyone has anything to help the sisters in
attending who are dilatory. Sending wo-
men missionaries to the heathen has been
done in the world and no doubt has done
good, and I am glad to see our sisters called
to go. I know, one very exemplary girl
who will go now in about a week.” Sister 
Yates had been blest in her labors and her
health had been better since she had been
among the sisters. “Last summer we had
to change our wheat that had been stored
twenty years." Shipped a car load but
would make it up in better wheat, felt
there was much to learn and was thankful
for these opportunities.
	President Mary John of Utah Stake, was
grateful for the privilege of meeting with
the sisters. “We are always willing in our
Stake to do all we are called upon to do.
We have made carpets cushions and furn-
ishings for the Tabernacle and public
buildings. Jennie Brimhall and Inez
Knight, two young sisters from Provo,
have been called as missionaries, other
young people will yet be called, for the
work is increasing.” Sister John said she
was present when these sisters were set
apart. "How great the work is in which
we are engaged. The sisters are rather
slow in our Stake in coming to meeting but
are liberal in donating.” Spoke a few
words on the silk industry. “We are try-
ing to infuse this industry into the Relief
Society, if the sisters who have a good
place for the work are trying to commence
I would really like to know something that
yould be an inducement to them and
would promote an interest in this valuable
industry.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young talked of silk
and thought it was a mission and would be
wealth to the community if they would but
persevere in it.
	Sister Sarah Eckersley of Wayne Stake,
felt that they had a good president and the
Society in Wayne Stake was in good order
and they enjoyed their meetings and had
union and a good spirit, felt glad to have
this opportunity of being with the sisters in
conference.
	.President Thomas Ricks read a report
and spoke of what they had done in Ban-
nock Stake for charity. “Sister Temper-
ance Hinckley is president, it is a young
Stake notwithstanding the president’s head
is white, if they could enroll the young
sisters it would be good for them, the
younger women should come forward and
help. The Lord is working with our peo-
ple and will continue to until we are more
obedient to counsel, and may we all abide
in the faith and be ready to do His work is
my prayer. Amen.”
	President Jane S. Richards of Weber Stake
spoke on the wheat question and of the
counsel given by President Brigham Young,
and she felt if the Lord would give her 
strength she would carry out that counsel,
knew there were some who became dis

[Column 3]
couraged but felt we must depend upon our
Heavenly Father for encouragement when
we had done all we could and He would
help the humble. We had not taken this
mission of saving grain upon ourselves,
but we were told to do it, and it would all
be right if we would do our part. Felt it
was sometimes difficult, we have families
and many cares; said when she was called
to be president she felt that her household
cares were all she could see to, but the
Lord had blest her and she had gone on
and had not neglected her home affairs, but
had accomplished more in her weak way
than she had ever expected. Thought
there was nothing like being industrious,
we should show our willingness to do little
things as well as great ones, we could not
all do the same line of work, neither could
all our children, but we could be diligent
in what we undertook to do, and do that
well. Sister Richards alluded to the indi-
cations of the approach of famine and felt
we had not been as zealous in obeying
counsel as we should have been. She was
proud to think there were some young girls
who were willing to enter the Relief Soci-
ety and help the older sisters, spoke of her
two granddaughters who were members and
who could bear a good testimony, men-
tioned the fact that the sisters who were
aged now were young when they began.
	Sister Esther Grange of Emery Stake,
spoke in words of praise of the sisters in
their County and of the energy of that
officers, how anxious they were to carry out
all the instructions they received, and of.
their desire to take hold of the silk industry
this summer and try to accomplish some-
thing creditable, believed they could.
	Sister Emilia D. Madsen, corresponding
secretary of Box Elder Stake, spoke in
terms of praise and of appreciation of their
president, Sister Olivia Widerborg, how
faithful she had always been in performing
every duty, and how carefully she had kept
the wheat, she was like a sentinel in guard-
ing it and never allowed any infringment.
The sisters had great joy in coming togeth-
er in the Stake and with Sister Widerborg
in carrying out her wishes, she expressed
her interest in the silk question and alluded
to the mulberry orchard and felt more
might be done by a united effort in that
direction.
	President Susan Grant of Davis Stake,
thought they were doing the best they
could, they were increasing in number, she
took great pleasure in visiting around the
Stake and meeting with the sisters in their
own wards and becoming better acquainted,
felt we could bless and comfort each other
in many directions and build each other up
and always felt to bless the sisters who had
great responsibilities, loved all and desired
to prove faithful.
	President Young spoke impressively of
the young ladies coming forward to assist
in the Relief Society, wished we could
show them the beauty of the work and the
blessing that would come to them.
	Sister Emily S. Richards added a few
words about the young women, spoke of
her own experience in working in the Soci-
ety when quite young and how much she
had enjoyed it, and also spoke of the Soci-
ety having a house, thought it could be
done if we would take hold in earnest.
	Conference adjourned until Saturday,
April 9, at 10 a. m. Singing “Lord dis-
miss us with Thy blessing.’’ Benediction
by Mrs. E. B. Wells. 
					E.B.WELLS, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE MASON AND THE STONE.

BY E. K.
The stone lies foursquare in its place,
Cold and black and bare of grace,
The sun shines on the barren square
And wakes no life or beauty there.
Bitter the b[-]ow of steel on stone,
Bitter the granite’s grating groan:
The mason’s cu[-]ning hand is set
Upon the stone to smite and fret;
And deeper as the chisel goes
The beauty daily grows and grows,
For lights and shades begin to fall
About the carving on the wall,
And angel-wings and faces leap
Obedient to the chisel’s sweep;
Flowers and fruits of paradise
Beneath the fretful hammer rise,
Until the house of God has grown
More worthy through that carven stone.
Thou, too, great Mason hast forewilled
That all the stones whereof Thou build
Thy house not made with hands shall so
In beauty as in suffering grow.
The heart to which Thy tools are laid
Shall never lack of sorrow’s shade,
That from that background there may shine
Outlines of beauty most divine.
—Speaker.


[Column 1]
CLARA BARTON TELLS OF THE
RED CROSS.

	Clara Barton, president of the National
Red Cross; George Kennan, first vice-
president and D. L. Cobb counsel, appeared
before the Executive board of the American
National Red Cross Relief committee
yesterday afternoon in the Chamber of
Commerce to answer questions concerning
the standing of the organization they rep-
resent. The meeting was behind closed doors.
	Doubts heretofore expressed by members
of the committee, notably by Vice-Chairman
E. Orr, as to the exact status of the Red
Cross, were according to Secretary John P.
Faure, completely dissipated by Miss Barton
and her associates. Mr. Orr was not pres-
ent, but William G. Low appeared as his
proxy.
	A week ago two members of the National
Red Cross asserted that the members of the
association were ten in number. Miss Barton
quoted it as a society of over thirty, whose
meetings were merely for work in the field,
"entirely unhampered by elective commit-
tees." This hitherto regarded as an ob-
jection was apparently sanctioned by the
Relief committee.
	"Miss Barton's telling address," said Mr.
Faure, "descriptive of Red Cross work car-
ried every man off his feet. Many wept."
	Mr. Kennan spoke especially of the busi-
ness machinery of the Red Cross—its care-
fulness of distribution, economy of adminis-
tration and completeness of record of its
doings.
	The committee was entirely satisfied and
commended the methods and practice
of the Red Cross as described by Miss Bar-
ton and the others. The assertion that
Miss Barton had appeared before the Relief
Committee to vindicate the Red Cross is in-
dignantly scouted, and the further announce-
ment that a special staff would be appointed
from its ranks to accompany her on her re-
turn journey southward was also denied.
For herself Miss Barton said:
	"The committee and I have perfectly
understood each other. All actions of the

[Column 2]
National Red Cross have been fully endorsed.
I am glad of the opportunity to thank the
press of New York for its attitude toward
me and the organization I represent."
	Mr. Faure reported a $2,500 contribu-
tion from August Belmont & Co., and other
donations amounting to $641.
	The New York Ambulance Red Cross
Auxiliary at the home of Mrs. W. C. Cowles,
No. 689 Madison avenue, reported yesterday
$2,695 as the total recent collections, mak-
ing a total of $46,121.
	Eighty thousand dollars was reported as
the aggregate sum collected by the various
auxiliaries of the Red Cross at yesterday's
meeting of the Woman's Committee on
Auxiliaries at the home of Mrs. Butler Dun-
can, No. 1 Fifth avenue.
	The General Committee, which serves as
a clearing house for all the auxiliaries, re-
ceived representatives from sixteen of the
twenty-four already formed, with a detailed
account of materials and funds on hand.
Each auxiliary will turn over a certain
amount of linen, hardware, hospital equip-
ment, cots, etc., that the various associa-
tions have undertaken to furnish. The
new organizations are:
	No. 20—West Side Auxiliary, under
Mrs. Charles R. Shaw, No. 130 West
Seventy-fifth street.
	No. 21—Hazleton Pa. Auxiliary.
	No. 22—Westchester Land and Sea Aux-
iliary, under Mrs. Frank K. Hunter.
	No. 23—Staten Island Auxiliary, under
Mrs. May Myrick.
	No. 24—Princeton Auxiliary,  under
Mrs. James Morgan, Mrs. W. E. D. Scott
and Mrs. Laurence Hutton.


AN APPRECIATIVE LETTER.

Downer’s Grove, Ill.,
May 15, 1898.
Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	Dear Sister—If you had received the
materialized expression of my thought in
writing as many times as I have wished I
could send, you would realize my apprecia-
tion of your courtesy in sending me the
“Woman’s Exponent.” I always find
something of interest in it, and I enjoy the
reports which disclose the fraternal spirit of
your social institutions. In April 15th
issue I was much pleased with the report
of Julia A. Pace “How to Build a Granary
on Nothing.” Could we have the same
co-operative spirit actualized in our econ-
omic systems, we should have no unem-
ployed, no tramps, no children in factories,
no billions of interest bearing debt, no ten-
ant farmers in mortgaged houses. Nothing
is needed in this country of rich resources
but the working together for the good of
all, and to fill the purpose for which our
Constitution was adopted, “to establish
justice and promote the general welfare.”
We should then banish poverty and bring
peace and good will. I rejoice that such a
spirit of actualization of co-operation is any-
where in operation to any degree. The
colony of Ruskin, Tenn., seems to promise
successful realizations of this principle
which alone can solve the problem of civili-
zation. I am looking for a reconstruction
of our system, a federation of the nations
of the earth, a people’s government in this
country, and, when the present war is
closed, an end of war on this planet.
	What may arise in connection with this
conflict cannot be foreseen, but that the


time is near when fighting on the battle-
field or in industry aiid trade will cease, I
have no doubt. Humanity must learn that
“to love one another” is not only true
Christianity, true religion, but true states-
manship and true economics.
	I am to spend the summer in this delight-
ful suburb. Thanking you for sending me
the “Exponent” I am
Fraternally yours,
LUCINDA B. CHANDLER.


U. W. P. C.

	The regular meeting of the U. W. P. C.
was held in the "Exponent" office Tuesday
evening, May 31. The president being ab-
sent the vice-president, Mrs. R. H. Doolan,
presided. Opening prayer Mrs. Phebe C.
Young. The secretary called the roll, re-
sponses being given with original patriotic
sentiments. Mrs. E. B. Wells proposed
the name of Mrs. Kate B. Anderson as a
member, and she was unanimously elected.
Under unfinished business the Curfew law
was discussed with no definite result. The
resignation of Mrs. Miller as alternate to
Mrs. Brown was accepted and Mrs. Rhodes
was appointed in her place.
	Mrs. Luella Rhodes read a carefully pre-
pared historical paper on the "Royal Fam-
ily of Spain and the present Generals."
Mrs. M. J. Lambert kept the members
deeply interested in her eloquent paper on
“Current Events,” including letters from
women’s organizations concerning the war,
and a mother’s letter whose son was killed
on the Maine. General discussion of papers
followed.
	On motion of Mrs. Schiller the meeting
adjourned. Closing prayer by President R.
B. Pratt, after which volunteer refreshments
were thoroughly enjoyed by all present.
AIMIE C. SCHILLER, Asst. Sec.


WOMEN IN ART.

	Rosa Bonheur is over seventy-nine years
old. She is as active as ever, and still
spends five hours a day perched upon the
substantial ladder which has become the
most historically valuable object in her
studio. With its help all her most famous
work has been achieved, from the "Horse
Fair" to the picture which she justly con-
siders her magnum opus, "Horses Thresh-
ing out the Corn." Mlle. Bonheur has
commissioned Miss Anna Klumpke of Bos-
ton to paint her portrait, and has invited
Miss Klumpke to be her guest this summer
while the work is being done. This is an
exceptional honor conferred by the greatest
woman artist upon one of the most gifted
of American women artists. Miss Klumpke
studied under Robert Fleury, Bouguereau,
Villefroy and Lefebvre, and she has borne
off numerous honors and medals—a third
medal from the Salon, the silver medal at
Versailles, and a gold medal from Philadel-
phia. The Historical Society of Albany,
N. Y., invited Miss Klumpke to hold an
exhibition in their galleries, and during
the last week of April a collection was ex-
hibited of some forty oil paintings and past-
els by Miss Klumpke, loaned by their
owner.
—Ex.


Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson has been
lecturing in North Carolina, and deriving
much benefit from the climate.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 1 & 15, 1898.


THINGS OF INTEREST.

	The daily events now transpiring are full
of interest, so much so that one watches the
bulletins hourly as the dispatches come in,
and an ever restless feeling pervades the
atmosphere about and around, and men ask
each other what the next move will be in
the semi-tragic drama of occurrences.
	Although Utah is remote from seaports or
river navigation, yet the same general feel-
ing prevails in regard to naval expeditions
or warfare, and now that the Utah volun-
teers are really launched upon the Pacific,
the growing sympathy of sentiment will be-
come more strongly intensified. They are
all some mother’s boys and one grows to
understand more fully the tie of kinship
that binds together those of many faiths
and creeds.
	The work of relief that is being done by
women to alleviate suffering caused by the
commotion consequent upon the call to
arms, proves how ready woman is to lend
her best energies to any good cause when
emergencies, or even opportunity occurs.
It is a beautiful thing in the human charac-
ter this desire to succor the needy and bind
up the broken heart and nurse the wounded
in body. Many young women throughout
the land are willing and anxious to serve
those who are wounded or ailing from any
of the ills to which men are liable from ex-
posure and change of climate, and so forth.
	As yet there has not been so much in this
way to be done, it has not yet come and
God grant it may not; but it is gratifying to
know there are brave hearts and true as
well as kind that will not shrink when there
is need for prompt and active service in the
hospital or on the field
	Our own young Utah women are as
brave as the bravest, and have manifested
their interest here at home in doing all in
their power to cheer and encourage the
volunteers as they took their leave of home
and friends, and have ministered in kind at-
tentions to the troops from other places who
were passing through en route for the
coast.

	The Biennial Federation of Clubs to be
held in Denver commencing on the 21st
inst., will be a great opportunity for West-
ern women, and many Utah ladies are ex-
pecting to go and take part in the proceed-
ings. Utah has quite a strong State Fed-
eration and has been ably represented hither-
to in the Biennials held in other cities in
the East, but many more can be present at
its sessions now that it is nearer home.
	The president, Mrs. Martha B. Jennings,


Mrs. J. C. Royle, Mrs. C. E. Allen, Mrs.
John McVicker, Mrs. R. E. Little, the last
two ladies are members of the Board of Re-
gents of the Utah University, and Mrs. W.
W. Riter, Mrs. Arthur Brown, wife of the
Ex-Senator from Utah: Mrs Annie M. Brad-
ley, editor of the Review and Dr. Orielle
Curtis, Mrs. Luella M. Rhodes, Mrs. W.
L. Lawler and several others will leave on
the 20th. It is confidently expected that a
number of Eastern women will pay Salt
Lake a visit when the Federation is over,
and committees have been appointed to see
after their entertainment, a Lake party and
public reception, also a recital in the Taber-
nacle are being talked of and will probably
be tendered the ladies.


UTAH WOMEN AND NEWSPAPERS.

	This is the first issue of a new volume,
the "Exponent" having entered upon its
twenty-seventh year. Let us ardently hope
that it may be a more prosperous one than
the last few have been, and that the wo-
men of Utah in whose interest it is pub-
lished and particularly the women of the
Church, may be more zealous in sustaining
their own official organ, and that it may
continue to be a source of encouragement to
the organizations of women throughout this
and other lands.
	In times such as are now upon us, when
history is being made so rapidly and one
momentous event after another follow in
such quick succession, it behooves all wo-
men to be alive to the general good and to
know in what way best to serve each other
and all mankind.
	The newspapers of women throughout
the land are indeed most helpful in each
locality where they are published especially,
and Utah and Salt Lake City should not be
behind in this respect. Utah was the first
western territory or state to establish a wo-
man’s paper except Oregon, and has done
much in the way of political freedom for
women, and her women have not been be-
hind other states in the West intellectually,
notwithstanding the hardships and priva-
tions of pioneer life in a new country.
The women of Utah have acquit-
ted themselves creditably in this respect, and
have shown a courage almost unsurpassed
in the obstacles they have had to surmount.
	In philanthropic work they are second to
none; their largest and most flourishing or-
ganization of this kind, the National Wo-
man’s Relief Society, is known far and wide,
at home in our own country and abroad in
other lands, as one of the most successful
and enterprising organizations of women en-
gaged in philanthropic work for the better-
ment of humanity. We fear the members
do not in many instances appreciate the
greatness of and the benefits to be derived
from this important Society.
	Such great societies need printed instruc-
tions regularly, such as come through an
organ of their own, and should take a pride
in maintaining such a periodical for reliable
information and historical references in re-
gard to matters pertaining to the growth
and advance of the Society as a whole
wherever the locality may be, that all may
be aware of conditions and needs and thus
by interchange of ideas through the paper
as well as in various other ways be mutu-
ally helpful.


Our sisters here and elsewhere are invited
and urged to write for the “Exponent,”
and to cultivate whatever talent they may
have in this line, thus by a few words per-
haps blessing and comforting others,
sowing seed broadcast, casting bread upon
the waters, (perchance the bread of life)
that may feed spiritually those in direst need
of comfort, whose lives may be darkened by
sorrow and adversity.
	The motto of the N. W. R. S. is “Charity
never faileth,” and this spirit should per-
meate throughout the organization, for it is
the spirit of the blesssd Savior who left  to
the world the Golden Rule which if applied
would make us all better and truer followers
of Him who said: “If you love me feed my
sheep.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A call for a mass meeting to organize
a permanent State Society of the National
Red Cross has been issued, and it is fair to
expect that Utah will bring into the field
valiant workers, who will do credit to the
State and be second to none in the union in
active sympathy and practical assistance for
suffering humanity.
	The Relief Society conference which had
been talked of for June has been postponed
until sometime during the first part of the
month of August next, on account of the
general confusion prevailing throughout
the West as well as the East, because of the
call for volunteers for the war with Spain.
Due notice will be given previous to the
conference when the date is decided upon.
	We have had the pleasure recently in
company with Sister Minnie J. Snow of
visiting the sisters of the San Luis Stake
of Zion in Colorado, and attending the con-
ference of the National Woman’s Relief
Society, and also the Y. L. M. I. A. and
several ward branches of the Society, and
were everywhere hospitably entertained
and cordially welcomed. Further particu-
lars of meetings must be deferred until a
more convenient time.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards, first vice-president
to President Zina D. H Young of th Nation-
al Woman’s Relief Society, attended the con-
ference of the Relief Society of Wasatch
Stake on June 3, accompanied by Sister
Emily S. Richards, and officiated in the re-
organization of the Stake board, which was
rendered necessary because of the demise of
the late president, Sister Emma Brown, and
one of her counselors, Sister Sarah H. Cum-
mings. Full particulars of the conference
will be given at a later date.
	We are pleased to be able to inform our
readers that very recently new branches of
the National Woman’s Relief Society have
been organized in Denver and Colorado
Springs, and that Apostle John W. Taylor
expects to organize one in Grand Junction
in the same state very soon. We received
word today of a branch just organized in
San Diego, California. We shall publish
particulars of these new branches very soon.
	The class of trained nurses under Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts are diligently pursuing
their studies. The class numbers about a
hundred women of suitable ages, ranging
from twenty to forty. They meet in the
lecture hall of the L. D. S. college, Temple-
ton building, Monday, Tuesday and Wed-
nesday from ten to twelve a. m., and are
getting on very well indeed, so we are in-


[Column 1]
formed. Dr. Roberts deserves the greatest
commendation for the benevolent work she
has so generously undertaken.
	Women are proving themselves heroic
and self-sacrificing as well as patriotic the
country over in our day as well as in former
times. The taking up of military nurses
duties by young women of wealth, culture
and refinement is proof of the fact. Miss
Margaret Long, daughter of Secretary
Long, and others from John Hopkins medi-
cal school of Baltimore, Miss Mabel Austin,
daughter of Ex-Governor Austin of Min-
nesota, Miss Dorothy Reid and Miss Mabel
Sims have two weeks ago reported to the
naval hospital at Brooklyn to nurse wound-
ed soldiers who were sent up from Samp-
son’s fleet on the Silence. Many others
whose names are not as widely known are
said do be engaged in the work.
	Since the last issue of the "Exponent"
two eminent men who have figured conspic-
uously in the world’s history have departed
this life. On the 19th of May, at his home
in Hawarden, the Right Honorable Wm.
E. Gladstone died. He is known every-
where as the “Grand old man.” A man of
the century, sound in judgment, eminent in
literature, almost unsurpassed as a states-
man, with the heroic courage of conviction
that few men have possessed. Edward
Bellamy died in Springfield, Mass. later in
the month. His literary works have attract-
ed great attention during the last few years,
especially among the masses of the people,
as the subjects treated upon touched the
hearts of struggling humanity as no others
have done perhaps in later times. He was
literally a man of the people.
	Eastern papers tell us that Clara Barton
has returned North, and after staying a few
days in Washington consulting with offici-
als of the State Department, she went to
New York to confer with members of the
Red Cross Relief Committee regarding the
Red Cross work in the field during military
and naval expeditions. The principal work
in hand is the fitting out of two hospital re-
lief ships. The proposition is to use the
funds of the National Red Cross Relief Com-
mittee, of which Bishop Potter is chairman,
to fit up two ships, one for the Atlantic
and the other for the Pacific, with the
Philippines as the objective point. They
will operate under the Naval articles of the
Geneva treaty, Each ship will have a hos-
pital and surgical staff and will be well sup-
plied with everything needful to care for
and relieve suffering and distress.
	The temporary organization of the Red
Cross Society has done excellent service
during the few weeks since the ladies met
and commenced in a practical way to work
for the benefit of the Utah Volunteers; hun-
dreds of fever bandages have been made, al-
so comforts for hundreds containing the
most essential articles for use in mending or
for daily use (when no women are about) to
serve in sewing on buttons, etc. Serving
lunches, to the companies on their departure
has been one of the most notable features of
the work and one that appealed direct to the
inner man; something invigorating at the
last moment before starting upon that weari-
some journey will be remembered by the
patriotic mountain boys who have gone
from the midst of plenty to serve their
country and for freedom’s sake. And each
mother and every true woman prays God to
bless our dear boys and bring them safe

[Column 2]
home again to their loved ones, and may
Peace soon spread her white mantle over all
nations and the sword of death be sheathed
forever.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WELCOME TO MISSIONARIES.

Levin, New Zealand,
April 11, 1898.
My Dear Mother:
	Here we are in this Nick ’o the woods
with a little time for writing home mail,
and first that goes to mother and Mother B.
the rest I will write to as I can, but to these
two I must say a word you know.
	There is so much to say that I hardly
know where to begin, but first I am well,
we having arrived at Wellington Sunday,
April 3, at 11 o’clock a. m., all fine and
glad to get ashore. Our voyage from Suva
Fiji was not quite so pleasant as from
Honolulu, having met a nasty gale for .two
days, but after that it was pleasant again
and our hearts were made glad on Saturday
when the East Cape of New Zealand came
in sight. That meant that our sea voyage
was nearing an end and that soon we could
be actively engaged in the work for which
we have come forth. It was interesting,
too, to see the glad smile on Hirini’s
countenance as he looked at the land so
familiar, so dear to his memory. Although
he now looks upon Salt Lake City as his
home, his Zion, still there must naturally
be a strong emotional sensation as he looks
upon the land of his fathers and his birth
and the experiences of a long life. Then
of his friends whom he was to meet. No
wonder a smile lit up his dear old
countenance. But I find that the sea trip
and the excitement of meeting have been
quite a tax on him, and we will have to
husband his strength and ask the Lord to
bless him for the labors and travels before
him.
	On our arrival at Wellington I was hand-
ed a letter from Elder Richards stating that
conference had commenced that morning at
Popawai, Wairarapa, and for us to proceed
there as soon as convenient. Being Sunday
no trains were running, only excursion
boats and bicyles, so we had to content our-
selves by waiting till morning. In the
meantime, however, we got our trunks
through the Custom House, but not with-
out some difficulty, as one brother very
providently inclined, had three pairs of new
shoes in his trunk, which had never been
worn and of which I knew nothing. These
were held, of course, also two packages of
underclothing on which we had to pay
some duty.
	Next morning at 7:15 we had all our
baggage transferred and were on our way to
the “hui tau” (annual conference,) where
we arrived at a little before noon. I had
wired President Richards and we were met
at the train with sufficient conveyances to
take us all over. Brother W. C. Castleton
was there with a one-horse buggy for me,
and I very much enjoyed the three mile
drive to the Maori fra with him. And
what a royal reception! About a fourth of
a mile from the fra we found a brass band,
(Maori) waiting for us which formed in
marching order and we were requested to
dismount and fall in which we did, two
and two, there being eight of us. Thus
we were escorted under fine music and the
Queen’s own flag, (God save the Queen.)
A little further we were met by a party

[Column 2]
who gave us a reception haka (dance) when
the band fell to the rear, the dancing com-
pany falling back gradually till the space in
front of the large building was reached.
Then the dancing party fell out and a “tan-
gi” commenced. This part I felt it was not
necessary for us all to endure, so as soon as
we could politely do it we left Hirini to re-
ceive that attention and we broke ranks
and fell upon the necks of the twenty-eight
Utah Elders assembled. You see our com-
pany swelled the number to thirty-five, and
I just can assure you we did have a good
time.
	Our arrival rather broke into the conduct
of conference and the afternoon was given
up to welcome speeches, regular meetings
being resumed again at 7 p. m., followed
by three meetings each day, Tuesday and
Wednesday. On Thursday the chief of
the village, an outsider, invited us to re-
main for a holiday and feast at his expense.
We could, of course, not do less than ac-
cept after his kind treatment of us in assist-
ing to entertain our conference, we being
on his ground. Some of the boys got up a
matched game of baseball, and when Elder
Richards and I walked out a little later
they insisted upon my acting as umpire.
Well, so long as it was a non-running posi-
tion I accepted, and had the thanks of the
winning side.
	The big dinner occurred at 5:30 p. m.,
and I can just tell you it was a spread.
About two hundred sat down to tables
loaded with good things. Roast beef, pork
and mutton, fish, fowl and potatoes, first
course; then plum pudding and pastry
galore.
	Elders Richards, Hirini, and yours truly.
occupied the places of honor at a table with
the chief and a friend. The decorations
were the whole tops of trees, ferns and
large bouquets; and the guests did full just-
ice to the viands prepared. After supper
and evening prayers the tables were cleared
out and a dance indulged in by the Maories.
In this we did not participate, as the mis-
sion statutes rule the Elders out of such
intimacy with the opposite sex. We could
only sit and look on. The music was
furnished by the Maori band, and was
really good. Some of our Elders varied
the amusements with a sort of an orchestral
program, there being a violin, mandolin,
claironet, two harmonicas and a piano.
	Elder Richards and I left early going to
the room above, which was the Elders’
quarters, attending to other and more im-
portant matters. About 1:30, just as Brother
Richards was getting into bed, the call for
“after the ball supper” was made, and I
not having undressed was deputized to rep-
resent the president. Thus it was past 2
a. m. when I retired, and some of us did
not turn in till 4 or 5 o'clock, and we were
out again at 5:30 getting horses up and
ready for those who came that way, and
the dispersing commenced. Many of the
Maories took the early trains and the place
began to look lonesome. But we have had
a glorious good time; have had some most
excellent meetings, and I can say for my-
self I enjoyed it immensely. But we were
very busy. Between meetings and at night
planning and arranging appointments,
answering questions, instructing the Elders,
so that we never got to sleep till 1:30, and
out at 5:30 or 6 in the morning. Also I
had little sleep the two nights before reach-
ing there and when we left on Friday hold-
ing a meeting with Europeans in Carterton,


I was just struggling to keep awake. But
Saturday night and last night we had a
chance to catch up, and are now ready for
work again.
	It was really more of a pleasure even than
I had anticipated to meet old Maori friends
again. To remember and be remembered
so kindly was very nice. I have not yet
seen any of my Waiapu district people, as
they did not get down to conference, it is a
long way for them. But I am glad to [-]ay
that our next April conference will be held
up there. Also I expect to take in the dis-
trict on my way to Auckland, spending
most of the month of May in that and ad-
joining districts, reaching Auckland early
in June, with conferences appointed from
that on to September and October, so you
see I shall be busy. We are now on our
way to the Mabia, making a final trip for
Elder Richards. The Mabia is Hirini’s
old home, and we desired to make it con-
venient to take him up there early. We
expect to go on tomorrow to Napiere.
	In all probability Elder Richards with
W. C. Castleton, clerk of the mission, and
three other Elders will leave Wellington on
April 28th on the same boat on which we
came out. They will reach home about
May 25th and you may expect a call from
them.
	Now mother, do please take care of your-
self. I am looking for home mail due in
Auckland tomorrow. This should leave
Auckland on the 16th. I am quite anxious
to hear how matters have gone on at home.
But we are all in the hands of the Lord,
and we must do the best we can leaving
the rest to Him.
	Please remember me to all my friends.
Love to Lizzie and Charlie and all the
folks. Send this over to Mother Burton to
read as I must write her but briefly this
time.
	The News is not furnished the mission,
so it you will get the Semi-Weekly and
send me in one bundle each San Francisco
mail, I will try and arrange for the pay of
same. With love I am, your son
EZRA T. STEVENSON.


2[--] WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

PATTY SESSIONS.
	Patty Sessions was born in Bethel, Ox-
ford County, Maine, 1795, was married to
David Sessions, June 28, 1812, and settled
in the adjoining town of Newry.
	She was a member of the Methodist
church for seventeen years, and was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in 1834. She was the
mother of eight children and survived them
all but two; she has fifty-three grandchil-
dren, one hundred and thirty-seven great
grandchildren and twenty-two great great
grandchildren, making in all two hundred
and fourteen posterity.
	They sold their property and left their
native land in June 1836, to share in the
troubles and persecutions of the Saints.
They traveled two thousand miles, camp-
ing out all the way, to Caldwell Co., Mis-
souri, they then purchased land and re-
m[--]ned in that place until 1838, when they
were driven out, they then went to Han-
cock Co. Illinois.
	They went to Nauvoo in an early day
and assisted in building up the city and also
the Temple. She was present at the meet-
ing when the Prophet Joseph Smith or-

[Column 2]
ganized the Relief Society; she joined the
Society then and remained an active mem-
ber as long as her health would permit.
	While at Nauvoo she was set apart by
Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball as
a doctor for women. Leaving Nauvoo she
went to Winter Quarters where she was
very efficient in waiting upon the sick,
especially the women. In 1847 she left
that place for Salt Lake City, driving an ox
team across the plains, where she arrived
on Sep. 26, 1847.
	Soon after she arrived in Salt Lake there
was an organization formed which was
called the Council of Health. Mother
Angell was president, Sister Sessions was
one of her counselors, and she acted in that
capacity as long as the society lasted. Dr.
Willard Richards, counselor to Brigham
Young, took a great interest in this Coun-
cil of Health.
	She was the president of a benevolent
society which was organized on June 10,
1854 for the purpose of clothing the Indian
women and children.
	She acted as a teacher in the Relief Soci-
ety from about the first of its organization
in the 16th ward until she left there and
moved to Bountiful in 1872, she there
opened her home for the benefit of the Soci-
ety and the teachers held their meetings in
her house for quite awhile.
	In 1883 she erected a school house for the
benefit of her grandchildren and the poor
of the ward who were not able to pay their
schooling. She left money enough in the
Parent Co-op so that the dividend will run
the school continuously ten months in the
year and pay all the expenses pertaining to
it. She took a great interest in the school
as long as she was able to take interest in
anything.
	She has donated very liberally to the
building of the Temples, she put eleven
hundred dollars in the Logan Temple and
gave a very great deal to the Salt Lake and
St. George Temples. She also donated
very liberally to the Perpetual Emigration
Fund, as much as two hundred dollars at a
time.
	She died a true and faithful Latter-day
Saint on Dec. 14, 1892, aged 97 years.
“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord.”
PHEBE C. SESSIONS.


[Column 1]
ROYAL FAMILY OF SPAIN.

READ AT THE U. W. P. C., MAY 31, 1898.
	When we catch our first glimpse of the
Mediterranean about 1500 B.C., it is dot
ted with the sails of the Phoenician navi-
gators. They crossed the Mediterranean
in every direction distributing the manu-
factures of Asia.
	The longest voyages that they made were
to procure tin. which was in great demand
for the manufacture of “Bronze.” The near-
est regions where this metal was found was
the Caucasas on the eastern shore of the
Euxine (now called the Black sea.) To-
wards the close of the 11th century B. C.,
the Grecians were jealous and closed the
Ægean sea against these navigators. The
Phoenicians pushed out into the western
Mediterranean and opened the tin mines of
the Herian peninsula (now Spain.) A
hasty sketch is all I can give of the general
features of this period upon which we are-
now entering.
	The Phoenicians established naval sta-
tions and trading posts. Articles of Phoeni-

[Column 2]
cian workmanship are found in the earliest
tombs of the Greeks and Etruscans. The
Phoenician navigators were enterprising.
They built the Hellespont bridge for Xerxes,
they furnished ships for the King of Baby-
lon for naval operations, and they circum-
navigated Africa, an undertaking remark-
able considering the age, 604 B. C., 2’000
years before the Portugese navigator,
Magellan.
	The political strifes between 1500 B.C. to
133 B. C., when Spain became a Roman
province are too numerous to mention.
Nearly eight hundred years elapsed when
Alaric held his sword over Rome and threat-
ened its destruction if his demands were
not granted. Alaric was obliged to force
his way into the city, and Rome paid the
penalty of not yielding to him.
	For several years after the Saracen in-
vasion Spain was broken off into a number
of small but independent states. The king-
dom of Asturia, or Leon, had been growing
in power and in 758 A. D. a second king-
dom was founded in Sobrave. Thirty-six
years afterwards was founded the third
Christian kingdom, that of Navarre, and in
933 another independent monarchy was
formed in Castile and soon became the
most powerful of the Spanish states. The
kingdom of Arragon was the last founded.
	In 1035 A. D. there was a division in
Castile and Arragon, and they were not
united until the marriage of Ferdinand
and Isabella. King John II of Arragon
was greatly pleased at this match; he was
deeply sensible of the importance of consoli-
dating the monarchies of Spain under one
head. The marriage articles were signed
on the 7th of January, 1469, but the cere-
mony was not performed until the 19th of
October, 1469. So great was the poverty
of the parties that it was found necessary to
borrow money to defray the expenses of
the marriage.
	There were five children born to Ferdinand
and Isabella. The eldest daughter, Isa-
bella, was married to Alonzo, the heir to
the crown of Portugal, in 1490. Prince
John, heir to the Spanish crown, married
Margaret, daughter of Emperor Maxmillian.
Johanna married Phillip, son of Maxmillian.
Donna Catalina the youngest daughter,
married Arthur, Prince of Wales, (after-
ward to his brother, Henry VIII.) Prince
John married in April and in October of
the same year was stricken down with
fever and died. The prince dying without
an heir the crown of Castile and Arragon
descended to the son of Isabella of Portugal
who was confirmed by the Cortez of Castile.
Thus the three crowns, Castile, Arragon
and Portugal were suspended over one
head. This young heir died when about
two years old. Isabella of Castile died in
1506, and before she died she exacted a
promise confirmed by an oath from Ferdin-
and (of whom she was always jealous) that
he would not marry again. The death of
Isabella was the signal for disorder which
the genius and authority of Ferdinand were
unable to suppress. While the queen’s re-
mains were scarcely cold Ferdinand took
the usual measures for announcing the suc-
cession and renounced the crown of Castile in
favor of Joanna and Phillip, and to their
eldest son, Charles I. of Spain, on the
death of his mother. The reckless extra-
vagance and licentiousness of Phillip so
troubled the queen that she grew morbid
and finally her malady became incurable.
Phillip long since ceased to treat her with
[-]ffection of even decency, and fain would


[Column 1]
have persuaded the Cortez to authorize her
confinement as a person of disordered intel-
lect. Phillip’s reign was short as he died
on the 25th of September, 1506. Ferdinand
held the reins of government for Joanna;
finally his desire for a son to succeed him
was so great that shortly after Isabella’s
death he married Germaine, daughter of his
sister, (Leanora the queen of Navarre,)
His wish had nearly been realized, Queen
Germaine was delivered of a son in March
1509, but the infant only lived a few hours.
Ferdinand began to be impatient and mor-
bid and his health declined so rapidly that
it was evident that his days were numbered.
He passed the last month of his life at the
country seat of the Duke of Alva, and died
in January, 1516.
	By the death of his grandfather, (Ferdin-
and) Charles I. took possession of the throne
of Spain by the title of Charles V. On the
death of his paternal grandfather (Max-
millian) he was elected Emperor of Ger-
many. Under the reign of Charles V.
the nation continued to advance higher and
higher and he seemed to take everything
before him, until in 1552 he was obliged to
flee before Duke Maurice of Saxony. The
season of the most brilliant results is not
that of the greatest national prosperity, the
boasted reign was dearly purchased by the 
decline of industry and the loss of liberty.
Charles V. celebrated his own obsequies,
his domestics marched in funeral procession
with black tapers, he followed in his
shroud and was laid in his coffin with great
solemnity. The length of the ceremony or
the impression which this left on his mind
so affected him that he resigned his crown
and retired to a monastery and died in
1558.
	Phillip II. was the son of Charles V. and
Isabella of Portugal, he was an accom-
plished linguist and mathematician and a
connoisseur in architecture and fine arts.
In 1554 he married Mary Tudor, Queen of
England, daughter of Henry VIII. and
Catherine of Arragon. After Mary died he
made an attempt to gain the hand of Eliza-
beth but was unsuccessful, and finally mar-
ried Isabella of France. His life  was no-
toriously wicked and licentious, his suffer-
ings were terrible, his body was entirely
covered with ulcers; his death must have
been a great relief to him and all around
him.
	In 1598 on the death of his father Phillip
III. came to the throne, he was married to
Margaret of Austria, his second wife was
Isabella of France. His reign of twenty-
three years was chiefly noted for the cruel
expulsion of the Moors from all parts of
Spain where they had sought refuge during
the last reign. In 1609, 600,000 individuals
were forcibly driven from their homes and
landed on the shores of Africa, there to be
treated even worse by the most cruel and
perfidious of the human family.
	Phillip IV., son of Phillip III. and Isa-
bella of France, began to reign in 1621. In
1615 he married Elizabeth of France, his
second wife was Marie Anne of Austria.
He ascended the throne when but seven-
teen, he was extravagant and dissipated,
his reign was most unfortunate, he was at
war with France, Holland, Sweden and
England. In 1640 Portugal freed herself
from Spanish yoke. Since the days of
Roderick the Goth, a more disastrous reign
than his had not darkened the annals of
Spain.
	Charles II., son of Phillip IV. and Marie

[Column 2]
of Austria was feeble in body and almost an
imbecile in mind. His first wife was Louise,
niece of Louis XIV., and his second wife
was Mary Anne of Newbery. Charles was
the last of the Austrian dynasty. Glorious
as the condition of Spain was under the
earlier sovereigns it was brought now to the
verge of ruin. For nearly three centuries
it had held the foremost rank in Europe as
a military nation; now it began to decline
both in influence and glory.
	Charles II. was childless and bequeathed
his throne to Phillip V., Duke of Anjou.
Phillip V. was the grandson of Charles II.
half-sister. He was the second son of
Louis the Dauphin of France and Mary
Anne of Bavara. He assumed the title of
King of Spain by virtue of the will of
Charles II. His throne was contested by
the House of Austria in favor of Arch Duke
Charles. Phillip was the first of the Bour-
bon dynasty who occupied the throne of
Spain, and this was the occasion of the wars
of the Spanish succession. Phillip was
married twice, first to Princess Marie Louise
Gabrielle of Savoy, his second wife was
Elisabeth Farnese of Parma. Phillip be-
came a victim to melancholia and abdicated
in favor of his son Louis. Louis died a few
months after of small pox, and Phillip was
obliged to take the reins of government,
In 1731 Phillip invaded Naples and took
possession of that kingdom and gave it to
his son Don Carlos.
	Phillip V. was succeeded by his son
Ferdinand VI., surnamed the “Wise.” He
ascended the throne in 1746. Ferdinand
did not share his ambitious step-mother’s
desire for conquest in Italy, and withdrew
from war, recalling all his armies so quick-
ly from Italy that all the northern part fell
into the hands of the Austrians, who treat-
ed the people with the greatest inhumanity
and even attempted to harness them to
their heavy-artillery. During the thirteen
years of his reign he was one of the most
just and humane of the monarchs who ruled
over Spain. He promoted the welfare of
his country, reorganized the navy, en-
couraged and established manufactures,
and by his judicial and political conduct
placed his brother on the throne of Naples.
Ferdinand married Magdalene Theresa of
Portugal. He died in 1759. 
	Ferdinand left no heir so the throne
descended to his brother, Charles IV. of
Naples, and Charles III. of Spain. Charles
was a very good man, for promoting educa-
tion, reforming and expelling the Jesuits in
1767. Before this time England became
alarmed at the naval preparations of Spain
and declared war in 1762, and took Havana
in Cuba and Manilla in the East Indies.
After several years peace was declared and
Havana was restored.
	Charles III. died in 1788, and was suc-
ceeded by his second son Charles Anthony,
Prince of Asturia (the eldest son was in.
capable of inheriting' the crown.) Charles
IV. was married to Maria Louise Theresa
of Parma. Charles was governed entirely
by Manuel Godey, the lover of his wife and
an instrument of Napoleon’s. The second
revival of the country commenced, trade
aud commerce began to show signs of re-
turning activity. During this reign war
broke out with Great Britain, resulting in
disaster to Spain. In 1804 another war
arose and resulted the same. In 1808
Charles abdicated in favor of his son
Ferdinand VII. but two days afterwards
privately protested.

[Column 3] 	
	Shortly after the prince was elevated to
the throne, he and his father were induced
by Napoleon to take a journey to Bayonne,
but instead of pleasure to find themselves
prisoners in the hands of Napoleon. They
surrendered the crown to Napoleon and he
transferred it to his brother Joseph. The
Supreme Council of Seville declared war
against. France and Napoleon. England
recognized Ferdinand as king and sent an
army to aid the Spanish. After many
bloody battles the French were driven from
the country. In 1813 Ferdinand VII. was
restored to the throne. He married the
notorious Christina who bore him two chil-
dren, Isabella and the Infanta Maria Louise.
Having no sons Ferdinand revoked the
Salic law which excluded females, and es-
tablished a regular succession to the throne
of Spain, females as well as males.
	Ferdinand died in 1833 and bequeathed
his crown to his daughter Isabella. His
brother Don Carlos contested the legitama-
cy of the throne, and this led lo a long and
disastrous war. Isabella II. was only three
years old when she was proclaimed queen.
Don Carlos and his son refused to take the
oath of allegiance and a civil war broke out
which raged for seven years. Don Carlos
reduced to the last extremity fled to France
for refuge and renounced his claim to the
throne of Spain. Isabella’s mother Christina,
and Esparten the “Duke of Victory,” were
appointed regents during her minority. At
the age of thirteen she was proclaimed of
age and at sixteen was married to her cous-
in, Don Francisco de Assis. Married
against her will to a man said to be unfit
for the conjugal state, the private character
of Isabella has been exposed to much cen-
sure and scandal.
	Ever since Isabella ascended the throne
disorder and dissatisfaction seem to be
characteristic of Spain, and in 1845 Don
Carlos made another attempt to gain the
throne of Spain for his son, Charles Louis
“Prince of Asturia.” Isabella with her
royal daughter set out for Barcelona but
was hooted and insulted through the streets.
The cause of this was that she wanted a
bill passed which would place the chief
municipal appointments in the hands of
the crown and deprive the inhabitants of
of the towns of any control over their func-
tionaries. She carried her measure but
there was such an uproar she was obliged
to yield. In 1841 quite a dispute arose
between Christina and Esparten, each one
wanted to be sole regent. Esparten was
elected and continued at the head of the
government until the 14th of July, 1856,
then Gen. O’Donnell was appointed presi-
dent. O’Donnell did not reign long; he
was obliged to resign on the 13th of Octo-
ber, and a new ministry was formed under
Gen. Narvaez. On the 28th of November
the queen gave birth to a son who as heir
to the kingdom took the title of Prince of
Asturia. The insugentsand royalists were
always fighting and in 1868 Isabella was
dethroned and with the king and her four
children took refuge in France. A new
president took the field, Marshall Serrano,
there was much dissatisfaction and all kinds
of parties formed, and an unforeseen diffi-
culty arose, the rebellion of Cuba. It be-
gan at Mauganillo on the 10th of October.
Manuel Cespedes was chief of the Cuban
forces and asked for recognition for the 
new Republic of Cuba, this rebellion re-
mained throughout 1869. Then the Spanish
began to look around for a king.


In 1871 the Cortez elected Prince Amedeo
of Italy to be king. Finding the task a
hopeless one Amedeo abdicated in 1873,
then the form of government was changed
to a Republic. In 1874 Spain was the
scene of general anarchy and much blood
was shed.
	In December 1874, Alphonso, (Isabella’s
son) was declared king. In 1877 Alphonso
married Mercedes, a daughter of the Duke
and Duchess of Montpensier, thus fulfilling
a part of the scheme of Louis Phillip of
France. Mercedes was a beautiful woman,
an angelic disposition, and the first and
only love of Alphonso. The honeymoon
was scarcely over when Mercedes began to
droop and fade and died in 1878. The
Spanish people insisted upon an heir to the 
throne so the following year Alphonso mar-
ried Marie Christina, the daughter of the
Austrian Arch Duke Ferdinand. In 1885
Alphonso died and six months after a son
was born. Little Alphonso was not only
born a king but came into the world in
the presence of his Ministers of State, Cabi-
net officers, members of the regency and
Privy council. A rumor had been circu-
lated that a bogus heir would be placed up-
on the throne, and that was the reason that
every consideration of privacy due to a wo-
man at such a time had to yield to the de-
mands of political situation. Marie Chris-
tina is regent during the minority of Al-
phonso. According to the laws of Spain
the king attains his majority at the age of
fifteen. The little king is twelve now, what
will be left for him to rule over remains to
be seen.
	The queen regent is very much disliked. 
She began by losing the friendship of her
people and then lost their sympathy, now
she is about to lose their respect. She is
said to follow the advice of her mother, the
Arch Duchess Elizabeth of Austria, when
any difficulty arises. She surrounds her-
self with cardinals and bishops who are the 
masters at the Court. She almost remains
in retirement when there are requests for
her presence. The queen was not present
a few weeks ago at the patriotic "Gran
Co[-]rida," the receipts of which were des-
tined for the national subscription. The
Spanish people do not know her, conse-
quently can have no sympathy for her.
	Don Carlos has never been so near the
throne as now, his partisans grow daily
more numerous and powerful. If the queen
cannot keep her people together and the
little king has to abdicate, will it be a
Monarchy or a Republic? War abroad
and revolution at home—such is the condi-
tion of Spain now. A movement against
the queen regent has been started and seri-
ous complications will probably arise before
long. It is said from a reliable source that
a majority of the Spanish people would like
to be rid of the Phillipines and Cuba, and
that they ought to be given to the Ameri-
cans without war; however, that will be
left for those who come later.
	We will glance over the interval since
elapsed, during the first half of which the
nation wasted itself on schemes of mad
ambition, and the latter half has sunk al-
most into a state of oblivion. In glancing
over this period we must confess that the
reign of Ferdinand and Isabella was the
most glorious in the annals of Spain.
				LUELLA M. RHODES.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands, is
engaged to Prince Bernhard of Sax-Weimar.


NOTES AND NEWS

	Lady Henry Somerset was re-elected
president of the British Woman’s Temper-
ance Association at the recent annual meet-
ing, by a large majority.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Smith Miller of Geneva,
N. Y., has republished a remarkable speech
by her father, Gerritt Smith, urging the
liberation of Cuba. It was delivered July
4, 1873, but reads as if written today. It
seems as if the veritable spirit of prophecy
had rested upon the famous New York
philanthropist.
	Mrs. Ida H. Harper is now in Washing-
ton, D. C., with her daughter, resting after
the completion of Miss Anthony’s biogra-
phy. She writes: “I shall spend most of
the summer reading proof. Our book will
be ready for the public Sep. 1, but the war
may delay its publication.”
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, on one occasion,
presented herself at a club of which she is a
member with her bonnet wrong side in
front. After some hesitation lest Mrs.
Howe should feel hurt, a sister member in-
formed her of the mistake. “What a blow
to my vanity!” said Mrs. Howe with an
amused smile. “I thought I was receiving
an unusual amount of attention as I came
down town on the car, but attributed it
solely to my own attractions.”
	Lady Aberdeen has received a letter from
St. Petersburg, saying that Russian women
are developing a lively interest in clubs, due
largely to the growth of the woman’s club
idea in England and America. Until re-
cently no move in this direction has been
possible, as Russian laws forbade the
formation of women’s clubs, and it is only
after strenuous efforts and repeated appeals
to the empress that the embargo has been
removed. Now there has been established in
St. Petersburg the “Russian Women’s
Mutual Help Society.” The president is
Dr. Anna Shanbanoff, a woman of much
ability and energy. The club contains
about 1,400 members, including doctors of
medicine, mathematics law and authors,
and it is said most of the intellectual society
of St. Petersburg.


[Column 1]
[stamp of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[beside the shield]
The
People’s 
Favorite.

	The Great Overland Route, the Union Pacific
Railroad, is a strictly “up-to-date” transporta-
tion line and offers its patrons unequaled ser-
vice. Please hear in mind the following un-
disputed facts: That by using the Union Pacific
you will save several hours time to all eastern
points; therefore the time you save is equal to
money earned. The only line east from Utah
with dining car service. The only line equipped
with buffet smoking and library cars, through
Pullman vestibuled palace and tourist sleeping
cars, free reclining chair cars with no change to
Missouri river and Chicago and only one change
to New York.
	As the lowest rates to all points apply via the
Union Pacific why not use it in preference to
any other line? Detailed information of every
kind relating to railroad and steamship trans-
portation will be promptly and cheerfully fur-
nished on appplication to H. M. Clay, General
Agent, No. 201 Main Street, Salt Lake City,
Utah.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!

	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not open
	one NOW.
		We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

THE WOMEN’S MEETING IN DENVER
SPECIAL EXCURSION.
	The women who intend going to Denver
for the Federation meeting should by all
means use the Rio Grande Western Rail-
way. This line in addition to being a home
institution with headquarters, shops, etc.,
in Salt Lake City, presents countless at-
tractions in the way of scenery, train
service, etc. A delightful trip can be ar-
ranged without additional cost by using the
Rio Grande Western in connection with
it her the standard gauge lines of the
Colorado Midland or Denver & Rio
Grande R. R. via Glenwood, Leadville, the
Royal Gorge or Manitou in one direction 
and the narrow gauge line of the D. & R. 
G. by way of the Marshall Pass and the
Black Canon in the other. The round trip
rate via any combination of the three dis-
tinct scenic routes of the R. G. W. Ry. has
been fixed at $20.00. Tickets on sale June
19th and 20th. It is expected a large num-
ber of the eastern women in attendance at 
the meeting will take advantage of an ex-
cursion to Ogden and Salt Lake City via the
Rio Grande Western.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to  48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

	Mlle. Marguerite Bottard has just been 
added to the small group of women whom
France has honored with the Cross of the 
Legion of Honor. She is the eldest of the 
nurses in the asylum known in Paris as the
Salpetriere, where she has labored for fifty-
seven years.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1 & 15, 1898.		NOS. 3 & 4.


CONTENTS:
	Gov. Adams’ Address. The Red Cross. Relief
Society Hall Dedicated—Maria L. Nebeker. A
Notable Gathering—M. A. Robe ts. Utah Volun-
teers—Nellie. Ladies Semi monthly Meeting.
In Memoriam. R. S and P. A. Reports
	EDIT[-]RIAL: Th[-]ughts about the War. A
Visit to San Luis. Biennial in Denver. Edito-
rial Notes.
	POETRY:—I[-]dividuality—Nan Wilkerson Wood.
The Eternal Feminine—Charlotte Perkins S[-]et-
son A Vision—Lydia D Alder.


INDIVIDUALITY.

Each being wins his way alone—by choice;
Each must unfold his temper, worth a[-]d power,
Amid the grind of circumstance and time
Great needs, ambitions, purposes plans,
Press forward their demands imperative,
And clamoring on the threshold of the heart,
Create the force to push out free and bold,
In untrod realms where we must hew a way;
Where kingdoms wait for those who bear
The natural heart of royalty!
Companions true are those who keep our pace,
And yet encroach not on our liberty; 
The human soul so hungers to be free
No tie can hold it back. And so it is, 
Our kinsmen oft become but memories;
And should we stand eyes meeting old time eyes.
The knowledge sure would flash from soul to soul,
I know thee not!
NAN WILKERSON WOOD


THE ETERNAL FEMININE.

CHARLOTTE PERKINS STETSON.

	[The following lines give an idea of Mrs. Stet-
son’s manner of treating the eternal f[-]minine as
it is now brought before us:]

	“You women of today who fear so much
The women of the future, showing how
	The dangers of her course are such and such,
		What are you now ?

	“Mothers and wives and housekeepers, forsooth!
Great names, you cry, full scope to rule and
	please,
Room for wise age and energetic youth,
		But are you these?

	“Housekeepers? Do you, then, like those of yore,
Keep house with power and pride, with grace
	and ease?
	No you keep servants only; what is more,
		You don’t keep these.

	“Wives? say you; wives, blessed indeed are they
Who hold of love the everlasting keys
	Keeping their husbands’ hearts! Alas the day !
		You don’t keep these.

	“And mothers? Pitying heaven! Mark the cry
From cradle death-beds! Mothers on their
		knees!
	Why, half the children born—as children die!
			You don’t keep these.

	“And still the wailing babies come and go,
And homes are waste, and husbands’ hearts fly
		far,
	There is no hope until you dare to know
			The thing you are!"


[Column 1]
GOV. ADAMS’ ADDRESS.

AT THE BIENNIAL FEDERATION OF CLUBS
IN DENVER.
	“Livingston found in the mountains of
Central Africa a tribe who placed over the
doorway of every hut a sign that meant ‘she
ruleth here.’ Savage instinct and impulse
grasped a principle of equality and justice
that it has taken ages of Christian civiliza-
tion to discover. Over the gateway of
Colorado stands the sentiment ‘she ruleth
here.’ Are men of the West more chival-
rous or more just than their Eastern
brothers?
	“Is it a coincidence, or is there an ele-
ment of truth in the boast of Switzerland,
Montenegro and other mountain lands, that
liberty has a clearer vision in higher alti-
tudes? Certain it is that it is the mountain
states Colorado, Utah, Idaho and Wyoming
only whose statutes recognize that the
Creator made no mistake when he placed
man and woman side by side in Eden.
Westward the course of justice, as well as
empire takes its way.
	“It is fitting that this great confederation
of women’s clubs should meet in Colorado.
While you are not a suffrage association
and may not care to vote, the ultimate of
your intellectual aspirations must be the
elimination of sex from the statutes of
equality. Colorado has added a soprano to
the symphony of political liberty, and we
offer our laws, our homes, schools, institu-
tions as object lessons to those who would
doubt the results of equality before the law.
(Great applause.)
SUFFRAGE NEEDS NO DEFENSE. 
	“Woman suffrage needs not the defense
of results; it is not a question of expedi-
ency but of abstract justice. Yet no evil
has come from the experiment. My testi-
mony may be biased, for had I received no
women votes some one else would have had
the pleasure of greeting you this morning.
But to me there has come no just criticism
to the participation of women in public af-
fairs; no awaking from the fond dream that
the union of the vigor, physical force
and courage of man with the higher moral
and spiritual qualities of woman will weave
for our children a fairer destiny than has
yet come to the race.
	“While here gather your own testimony.
The state superintendent of schools is a wo-
man, and no office in the state house is con-
ducted with more ability. Half the county
superintendents of Colorado are of the same
sex, nearly all of the teachers are women,
yet we challenge comparison with the pub-
lic school system of any state in the Union.
WOMANLY WOMEN.
	“Upon our streets even counting our
Buffalo Bills and Arizona Kids, you will
not see as many long-haired men and short-
haired women as in Boston. Our women
have not diverted their patronage from the
dressmaker to the tailor. Dry goods and
millinery stores still prosper. Politics and
oot ball still have their season. The set-

[Column 2]
ting sun glints the mountains yonder with
its beams of glory as in the days of old
when man was king. Now and then we
meet a man whose spirit gropes through the
murky atmosphere of personal appetite. A
member of this class went home last night,
and at supper protested against cold pota-
toes and a tough beefsteak; his wife who
had just returned from her club, asked him
if he measured the universe by a good meal.
She had spent the afternoon at a woman’s
club discussing the weighty problem and
potentialities of the human race, and cold
potatoes and a poor steak were but an in-
significent local issue. Go into our homes
and you will find, certainly, no more ex-
amples of heavy bread, of neglected duties
and husbands, of ragged and unwashed
children, than in states which women’s
clubs and suffrage have not invaded. No
fair, just man can look into the eyes of the
mother who bore him, or the wife who
guides the destiny of his own sons, and
deny her any club or political right which
is his.
	“Selfishness will pipe its lament, and
when the politicians realize that equal suf-
frage doubles the number of candidates for
office without increasing the number of
offices, they will anathematize the expan-
sion of the ballot with as much vigor as
Lord North cursed the memory of Colum-
bus for discovering a land that had cost him
so much in trouble, treasure and defeat.
	“If Mrs. Browning were living and in
Colorado she would have no occasion to
write of ‘women sobbing out of sight be-
cause men made the laws,’ for the influence
of women voters, and especially of the wo-
men’s clubs, can mould—almost dictate—
any new legislation.
WOMEN AS STATESMEN.
	“Women may develope the arts of a
statesman, but they can never be politicians.
When their personal ambition is at issue
they cannot dissemble. Since our consti-
tution women have voted in all school elec-
tions, and that is one department of
government in which politics and venality
have never found lodgment. What her in-
fluence has been in our school life is a hint
of what it will be in every direction where
morals and the public good are concerned.
	When the Israelites were broken with
corruption and dissension God gave a wo-
man to judge them; Deborah ruled them
for forty years, and the Bible adds ‘then
they had a rest.’ I have never been clear
whether the rest came as a result of her
rule, or because her reign was ended. But
in our land come rest or come dissension,
Deborah is to reign. The women’s libera-
tion movement which under the shadow of
the Rocky mountains has crystalized into
legal enfranchisement, is not a transient
impulse; we stand at its cradle, but few of
us will live to see the limits it will reach.
Liberty when unchained at Runnymede,
made the circuit of the globe. So with
equality, it is not a summer ripple upon the
political sea, but a strong, swelling tide,
whose waves will wash every civilized
shore.


“The trial has been called and it will
never be thrown out of court until the logic
of experience has proven whether the past
inequalities of man and woman were the
invention of man’s legislation or of divine
authority.
WOMAN IS HUMAN.
	“Woman’s clubs and her interest in pub-
lic questions have been a revelation to
many. Woman is found to be neither di-
vine nor Satanic, neither a slave nor an
angel, simply human. She is neither the
soulless creature of Homer or Milton, nor
the burlesque divinity of Cervantes, but a
being dowered with common sense and an
exalted purpose. Every attainment but in-
creases her moral and intellectual force
without damage to tile sublime character
of mother and wife. She may break some
of the chains of prejudice and conventionali-
ty, but she will not lose her womanhood.
Fear not that equality will make her mas-
culine, ‘man and woman created he them,’
and no belated act of justice on the part of
man can change the ordinance of God.
	“Proud as we are of the public’s past the
Higher and purer influence of woman in
public affairs should give a future still more
radiant and fair. Mrs. Stanton said that if
Miriam had been in charge of the children
of Israel that they would have reached
Canaan in forty days instead of wandering
like Gypsies for forty years. Perhaps had
woman been placed in our national consti-
tution it would not have taken one hun-
dred years and the first sons of a genera,
tion to eliminate slavery. Had the single
word ‘sex’ been inserted in the fifteenth
amendment, I believe that our nation
would be a generation in advance of its
present position on the problems of moral
and municipal reform.
INSPIRATION OF WOMAN.
	The nation owes a debt of gratitude to
women’s clubs. They have been an in-
spiration to its members, they have been
centers from which radiate electric currents
of moral and political reform. They have
broadened their own horizon and that of
the race. They have organized the eneigy
and intellect of woman and directed them
into every field of good, upon which falls
the smile of God or man.
	“Men have clubs for sport, pleasure and
dissipation. If we omit the Woman’s
Morning Whist club, which is as wasteful
as any club man can invent, women’s clubs
are universities, colleges, training schools
where post graduate degrees are taken in
citizenship, art and literature.
	“Woman’s sphere is no longer confined
to the washtub, the kitchen or the parlor.
	“Her sphere is now the grand whirling
globe with all its responsibilities and its
glories. The growth of woman’s clubs is
the greatest movement of this generation,
and as representatives of that beneficient
influence we greet you today. 
	“The faith Rome had in her vestal vir-
gins, Colorado has in her mothers, wives
and daughters; to them we gladly trust the
sacred fires of civilization, the palladium of
our liberties, and judging by the preponder-
ance of flowers and feathers at church ser-
vice, our religion also.
	“In the name of the women we love we
welcome you to a state, where the word
‘male’ has been eliminated from the laws
and the word ‘obey’ from the marriage
service.”


WOMANS EXPONENT


THE RED CROSS.

	An important meeting of the American
National Red Cross Relief Committee was
recently held at the Chamber of Commerce
in New York City. Bishop Potter presided
and on the recommendation of Mr. W. T.
Wardwell the following appeal was issued:
	The American Nation[-]l Red Cross Relief Com-
mittee, acting und[-]r the au[-]pices of the Ameri-
can National Red Cross, has for its objects the
col ection of funds for providi g medical and
surgical attendance, nursing, medical supp[-]ies,
food, c othing and such necessary assistance as
may be required by the American National Red
Cross, u[-]on call of the United States Government
in order to unify all endeavors to that end during
the pres[-]nt war.
	Under p[-]o[-]isions of the Geneva Conference
from which every Na[-]ional Red Cross Society de-
rives its authority, the American National Red
Cross is directed to provide such relief as may be
required by all, wi[-]hout recognition of friend or
foe, who may suffer from the calamities incidental
to war pestilence or famine
	The Red Cross here, and throughout the civil-
ized world, by a wide and varied experience in
recent wars, recognizes by international treaty the
sacred obligat[-]ons of h[-]lpfulness for the suffe[-]ing
wherever found, has so perfected its organization
that it becomes the recognized and legitimate
channel for contributions from all classes of in-
dividuals and every variety of auxiliary associa-
tion.
	For the purpose of properly systematizing the
benevolent impulses of the general public and of
giving proper directions for efficient Red Cross
work, the Committee solicits the cooperation of
individuals and auxiliary associatio s throughout
the country, confideut that through such means
the various funds and articles collected can most
safely and most directly reach their ultimate des-
tination.
	To this appeal twenty-five names were
appended—those of a newly organized
committee; from them Bishop Potter, ex-
Governor Morton. Mr. Wardwell, Drs.
Thomas, Lesser and Shrady were appointed
to second the offer already made to the
United States of the services of the Red
Cross in the war with Spain. Interviews
were then had at Washington with the
President, the Secretaries of War, the Navy
and the Surgeons-General of the Army and
Navy. The guarantee of the official offer
was accepted, subject to such regulations as
the medical officers of the Government shall
prescribe. In accordance with Mr. Mc-
Kinley’s wishes, a meeting was held on
Saturday May 14, of representatives from the
American Red Cross Relief Committee and
the National Relief Association. The fol-
lowing general plan of national organiza-
tion was agreed upon:
	First—One society to be known as the National
Red Cross Relief Commssion.
	Second—State societies to be organized and
known by their State titles.
	Third—Contributions to be designated for the
purpose to which they are to be applied—namely,
for the work of the Red Cross or the work of the
Relief Committee.  
	Fourth—The American National Red Cross to
have its own peculiar field of work, as designated
by its constitution and by the international
treaties; the Relief Committee to have its parti-
cular field, as set forth in the call for relief.
	Auxiliaries to the Red Cross work are
rapidly forming. Among these auxiliaries
are the Ladies Auxiliary of the General Re-
lief Committee; the committees from the
Daughters of the American Revolution;
the college and university committees, such
as the Columbia University Red Cross
Auxiliary; and special auxiliaries, such as
the Ambulance Red Cross Equipment Soci-
ety.—The Outlook.


RELIEF SOCIETY HALL DEDICATED.

Salt Lake City, June 16, 1898.
	June 16th was the anniversary of the
annual meeting of the 22nd ward Relief
Society, on which occasion the Society
hall which had recently been erected was
dedicated. After the afternoon services in
the ward hall all repaired to the Relief
Society hall. Brother Wm. Gardner and
congregation sang the hymn “This house
we dedicate to Thee,” Bishop Solomon
offered the dedicatory prayer, then about
one hundred people partook of a bounteous
repast. The tables were beautifully decor-
ated with flowers, under the supervision of
Sister Elizabeth Solomon and aids. Mrs.
Nellie Druce Pugsley sang in her own
sweet way “O, My Father.” Brother Wm.
Gardner sang the beautiful hymn “Brightly
beams our Father’s mercy.” All went
away satisfied with the enjoyable time
spent.
	RACHEL WHIPPLE, President.
	MARIA L. NEBEKER, Sec. pro tem.


A NOTABLE GATHERING.

			Lehi, June 20, 1898.
	On Sunday May 31, the teachers of the 
Relief Society of Lehi numbering over
fifty, got up a surprise party in honor of
our president, Rebecca Standring, which
was a complete success. Brother Louis
Gaeff with his usual generosity let us have
the Opera House free, and about one hun-
dred and twenty-five people all seated at
the tables adorned with the most dainty
viands awaited with expectancy the arrival
of Sister Standring, and on her entrance
arose and saluted her. After supper
another surprise awaited her in the form of
an excellent crayon portrait of herself, pre-
sented by Sister Margaret Gaddie, the prime
mover in the affair, in a very neat speech.
Sister Strandring then responded in a feel-
ing manner, expressing herself as very un-
worthy of the honor bestowed upon her. but
desiring to show her appreciation by prov-
ing herself worthy of the esteem in which
she was held. Remarks were then made
by Brothers A. J. Evans, A. R. Anderson,
Wm Clark and others of the brethren and 
sisters, interspersed with singing by a 
quartette led by Brother Isaac Fore, which
was a very pleasing feature of the enter-
tainment. The speakers all eulogized the
labors of Sister Standring and many pray-
ers ascended to our Heavenly Father that
she might be spared many years to com-
fort and bless those with whom she is asso-
ciated.
					M. A. ROBERTS.


Mrs. Walworth, director general of the
Woman’s National War Relief Association,
is in Washington attending to the inter-
ests of that association. She has been in
conference with the presidents of the asso-
ciations and also with the surgeon-general
of the army and navy. She spent one day
at Camp Alger visiting the division field
and regimental hospitals. She reports that
conditions are improved at Camp Alger,
and that the sick men look comfortable
under their musquito nets, which relieve
them from the torment of the troublesome
flies.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
For the “Exponent.”

A VISION.

Evening’s shades around me fall, and hush the
	great world’s hum;
Quiet pervad[-]s in vales of peace, as glints the
	setting sun.
Only the wind’s soft murmuring song, is borne
	on the ambient air;
While musing I sit and ponder lo[-]g, on the fate
	of all things fair.

I think of the world, the grand, gay world, so
	full of life and joy; 
And then of the depths of human woe, the gold
	and the alloy.
Oh breeze as you stir among the trees, do you
	tell us of a prayer?
Or do you waft the sigh of one, dumb stricken,
	with despair?

Or do you chant the lover’s joy, whose heart with
	rapture sings,
And hears in every passing breeze, the flutter of
	angel’s wings?
A sleepy breeze it seems to me, as it murmurs
	among the trees;
Whose boughs caressing my window pane, soothes
	my fret with ease. 

A grateful balm it proves to me, that quiets my
	wearied brain;
Forgetful of all that disturbs my heart, of joy, or
	sorrow, or pain,
I rest—When slowly a light appears, on which I
	thoughtful gaze,
While brighter yet it grows and spreads, like the
	sun's red noonday rays.

The brilliance of the scene, back[-]d by the sombre
	banks of night,
Rests my eyes, then quickens my pulse, ’tis such
	a glorious sight.
Suddenly a form appear, a glorious one I see,
A crown of dazzling splendor, on his head appears
	to be.

Spell bound I gaze on the heavens, as with speed
	he moves along,
Away to the mountain northward, whose peaks
	stand the c[-]ouds among.
’Tis not of earth, I cry! such glory is not
	known,
Nor splendor such as this, as ever graced an earth-
	ly throne.

Breathless I w[-]tch his movements, as the light
	flies on apace,
When he turns to retrace his footsteps, and I see
	the Savior’s face!
Aye! this is the Lord, who groaned upon the
	cross;
And yielded up his precious life, our souls to 
	cleanse from dross.

My heart beat on so painfully, yet joyful is its
	song,
For now I know my Savior lives, whom I have
	loved so long.
Oft have I pondered on the theme, and longed
	his face to see, 
Who paid the price for fal[-]en man, to dwell with
	God eternally. 
Have sought to picture in my mind, his form, his
	loving eye,
Oft have I prayed that one I loved, might saved
	be, nor die
Oft, too, I’ve wept that now on earth, I could not
	touch his garment’s hem 
Nor plead as did the one of old, the tide of death
	to stem.

Or that his hand some boon might grant, my heart
	so madly craved;
And then my grief to see go out, the life he could
	have saved 

[Column 2]
Out to the great Beyond, the bounds to us un-
	known;
Only that love is fraught with life, though in
	bitter tears we’ve sown.

But now mine eyes behold the Lord, I have not
	sought in vain,
Nor called for naug[-]t—though clouds were dark—
	upon his holy name.
I sense such love!—Before I’d never known how
	insignificant that seems,
So called by us, who walk life’s way, and only see
	in dreams.

I feel the power of the glorious o[-]e, his eye upon
	me beams,
And through my being such music swells, the air
	with radiance gleams,
As slowly back he turns his way, to where the
	Temple stands;
When o’er the spire he paus[-]s—he thinks of one
	not made by earth[-]y hands.—

A cloud of glory o’er it res[-]s, Moro[-]i full in
	sight;
And the heavens ab[-]ve with glory blaze, far away
	is dark-eyed Night.
In the angel’s hand his trumpet gleams, shining
	like burnished gold; 
And o’er his face expressions change—they’re
	wond’rous to behold.

I list to hear the joyful sound, waited for so
	long,
Announcing Christ’s return to earth, chanted by
	the heavenly throng;
But to mine eyes he’s lost to view descending
	is the light,
Till it scintillates like flashing gems, reflected
	by the night.

In clouds it gathers ’round this house, for the
	Lord has entered th[-]re;
And rapture thrills my being through—O, Savior
	hear my prayer!—
O’er whelmed with weakness, my hands reach
	out for thine.
And now I know! But never more w ile on the
	sea of time,
Will my heart forget the vision; bu sing of its
	adored,
For I have seen the Lord! mine eyes have seen
	the Lord! 
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
UTAH VOLUNTEERS.

		Oakland, Cal., June 14, 1898.
Editor Exponent:
	Perhaps some of your readers would like
to hear from the brave soldier boys who so
gallantly offered their services to their
country and who arrived several weeks ago.
I went across the bay to see those boys
whom the papers said were the finest equip-
ped, the most highly educated and alto-
gether the best specimens of manhood that
had volunteered for Uncle Sam.
	The city of tents was located on the Bay
District race track, adjoining Golden Gate
park and in full view of the ocean, where
they had the full benefit of the cold fogs
that greeted them every day and their soft-
est bed was sand. The Utah artillery had
decidedly the best of any of the regiments,
for they had a whole block to themselves
with cannon in the center and tents around
the edge, whilst the others were packed
closely.
	The Utah boys with their war accou-
trements sailed for Manila this morning
thousands turned out to cheer them and
wish them a pleasant voyage and a safe re-
turn. The California people have treated

[Column 2]
the twelve thousand men here royally.
They have been guests of the city as far as
Uncle Sam would permit, they have had to
eat pork and beans and do their own wash-
ing. And oh, those boys and men doing
their own washing! A whole month’s wash
would consist of one shirt, one towel and
three pairs of socks with the heels rubbed
off when they were washed. As for baths,
they will remember those they had and
look forward to those they expect to get.
They seem to think they are on a picnic
except when they roll in a blanket and lie
on the sand. I asked a friend of mine if he
had an allumium badge, he said “No, what
is it for?” I answered softly, “So you can
be identified if anything should happen.”
The tears came into his eyes and he said,
“Oh they can identify me, but nothing will
happen to me.” Then he inquired about
the badges and I told him the good, patri-
otic people of San Francisco and Oakland
had made arrangements to supply every
soldier with a badge, his name and country
and state engraved upon it, to be placed
upon a buckskin string and worn around
the neck, then there were flannel bandages
for every one and comfort bags with things
that soldiers need, where they have no
mother or wife near.
	Everybody has been very busy here and
are hard at it to feed this army of men as
they arrive, it is a very big undertaking,
and so many of the companies came with-
out even a change of underclothing and no
shoes, absolutely destitute, but the people
have supplied every want and I feel sure
San Francisco will be remembered when
other things are forgotten.
	There are many funny things happen out
at camp. One of the boys committed a
misdemeanor and a policeman took after
him, but the soldier ran into a tent with
the officer in close pursuit. The guard
told the officer to halt but he thought he
was the law, but before you could wink he
was taken to the guard house and locked
up for the night. Whilst one of the com-
panies was drilling in double quick time the
Captain fell into a gopher hole and as each
man came on he fell till fifty were piled
there. Every day there is something funny
happens and I am glad they do have a good
time. You would hardly expect it on
$13.00 per month salary, but they don’t
have to treat either a lady or a gentleman.
If a soldier goes out with a lady she pays
for everything and is honored to do it. Ten
soldiers got on the car when I did and a
wealthy girl paid their fare, and that is the
way it is all the time. If the war don’t do
another thing, it has made us all more
patriotic and self-denying and has brought
us all closer together. I am proud of the
volunteers and I am proud of the Utah
boys and of the people who provided for
them so liberally that it has been comment-
ed upon a number of times. I only hope
they will have an opportunity to distin-
guish themselves at Manila. They are the
only artillery company that came and the
only cavalry company so that they may
make a hit, let us hope so. My heart
gees out to them as they sail away, let us
hope they may all return safe.
						NELLIE.


Miss Clara Barton with a staff of twenty
Red Cross assistants reached Cuba early
this week. She sailed from Key West on
the steamer State of Texas.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor. 
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 1 & 15, 1898


[Column 1] 
THOUGHTS ABOUT THE WAR.

	The war news is revolting, appalling
and blood-curdling, and the time has most
assuredly come when we cannot endure to
even read the details of the heart-rending
occurrences transpiring from day to day,
one turns away from the bulletin boards faint
and sick at heart, knowing too, sometimes,
that their very own if not wounded or dy-
ing are among the rank and file likely at
any moment to be in the midst of the dis-
tress consequent upon war. O, that the
day might speedily come when war should
cease and nations be at peace one with
another; but while we are in the midst
of these terrible sorrows and calamities it
behooves us all to exercise faith in God and
pray earnestly that the white emblem of
peace may soon o’ershadow those engaged
in this fearful conflict though it were under-
taken to free the oppressed from the yoke
of bondage.
	Even now the losses on both sides are
fearful to contemplate, and none know
what may yet transpire before this “cruel
war” is over. The heat of the tropical sun
is overpowering, and the wounded who suf-
fer from agonizing pain are in a condition
more deplorable than those who have passed
over to the great beyond, where we are
told there is no more pain or suffering for-
ever.
	When we consider that among the volun-
teers is the very flower of American man-
hood (many of them only boys) patriots
and sons of patriots, it is indeed terrible to
think how great is the loss to the country
as well as to the homes made desolate and
the heartstrings torn with anguish, and to
those of us who feel this war might have
been averted by arbitration had wisdom
held her rightful sway, the fearful results
already recorded are overwhelming. One
can scarcely rejoice in a victory that re-
quires such sacrifice of human lives in this
enlightened age when civilization makes
such boasts of mercy and of charity and
brotherly love. O, the pity of it all, that it
had to be! And if as so many assert, un-
due ambition and a spirit of revenge is
prompting it then, indeed, “How have the
mighty fallen.”
	President McKinley’s Proclamation that
we should “give thanks unto the Lord”
for the nation’s success is well-timed, and
that we beseech the Lord in all humility
for continued guidance and protection is the
proper spirit to manifest; meantime that we
bow to His will and in all sincerity conse-
crate and dedicate our armies to His ser-

[Column 2]
vice, putting away all selfishness and de-
sire for vengeance, and pray that no more
human blood be spilt, but peace be soon de-
clared and a better and a higher lesson
be taught to the barbarous nations than to
slay their enemies. The Savior’s lesson to
all mankind was “love one another.”
	There may be some rejoicing over such
victories as Dewey’s and the heroism of
Sampson, Schley and others, but after all
must it not necessarily be rejoicing in sup-
pressed grief? and is there real cause after
all—we admire physical bravery on land or
sea, but God knows whether this be a
righteous conflict and He will one day
bring all the nations to judgment. And
now with heads bowed down and hearts
sorely stricken we mourn the nation’s loss
and the untimely death of heroes whose
lives were freely given for their country’s
sake and the oppressed of other lands. And
the end is not yet. “And the mourners go
about the streets.”
	But let us hope that this is not all, and
exercise faith in God for our grand army of
the Great Republic that He will have com-
passion upon those, who have gone in obe-
dience to authority, and preserve in the
hour of danger the honor of this Western
continent that it may indeed be an asylum
and a haven of refuge for all nations, as has
been declared by ancient and modern pro-
phets.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO SAN LUIS STAKE.

	On Friday morning, June 3, we left Salt
Lake City to visit the sisters in San Luis
valley, accompanied by Sister Minnie J.
Snow who represented the Y. L. M. I. A.
	We reached La Jara Saturday morning,
where we met some of the sisters and drove
over to Sanford with them. Mrs. Cornelia
Mortensen, president of the Relief Society,
took us home with her, and that afternoon
and evening we had the opportunity of
seeing a number of the sisters of that place.
We dined at Mrs. Mary E. Crowther’s, the
secretary of the Relief Society of the Stake,
whose husband is away on a mission. Sun-
day morning quite a number of the Sanford
people went over to Manassa where the Re-
lief Society conference was held. The morn-
ing was fine and the ride enjoyable, and the
country everywhere looked delightful and
prosperous.
	Our party went direct to President
Smith’s for instruction and lunched there,
then to the meeting house where after the
sacrament had been administered the con-
ference opened. There was an excellent
representation from the several branches,
and an opening address by President Corne-
lia Mortensen. The secretary read the
minutes of the previous conference which
gave a good idea of the work of the Society
in that locality.
	The same evening there was a meeting
of the Y. M. and Y. L conjoint and a gen-
eral invitation extended to all—there was
a full attendance and a good spirit. Some
young missionaries from the city were pres-
ent and bore faithful testimonies, they are
doing effective work among the people in
Colorado, organizing branches of the Church
under the presidency of Apostle John W.
Taylor who has headquarters in Denver.
We were delighted to hear from Brother
Taylor, whom we met on the train in go-
ing over, in company with Brother Willie
Clive, that he had organized a Relief Soci-
ety in Denver and also in Colorado Springs

[Column 2]
and expected to organize soon in Pueblo,
which has since been done, Mrs. Susa
Young Gates being present and assisting
Apostle Taylor and the Elders.
	An interesting conference of the Y. L.
M. I. A. was held in Manassa on Monday,
there were three meetings held, the Relief
Society conference occupying the morning
hours, and the following day we met with
the sisters of Mountain View at which place
we were literally feasted; to look at the
tables, one would have imagined it was
Christmas, and the puzzle was where it all
came from, roast turkey and every other
imaginable luxury away out on the open
fields where the ward house was situated,
miles away from the dwellings. The warm
welcome and generous hospitality will never
be forgotten. The same afternoon we held
meeting in Sanford also in the evening,
both were largely attended.
	Afterwards we held meetings in Morgan
and Richfield and Eastdale, the last twenty-
five miles away across the Rio Grande
river over which has been built a stupen-
dous iron bridge. The drive to Eastdale
was most interesting and there were novel-
ties to be seen in Spanish and Mexican
houses which are anything but artistic,
though situated as they are might be called
picturesque. Eastdale is beautifully situ-
ated and at present prosperous under the
direction of Bishop Jenson who seems to
possess the elements of character necessary
for colonizing. We enjoyed this place
very much, held two meetings, one at 4 p.
m., another at 8 p. m. We left early in
the morning and drove near to a rugged
mountain on the borders of New Mexico,
en route we saw several wolves who seemed
very bold and fleet of foot. President
Smith was sorry he was unarmed, for he
could easily have killed one or two of them.
	The drive across the lonely country was
charming in several ways, particularly so
to the writer as there was desert land where
one would expect to see mirage, and we
were not altogether disappointed, at another
time we should be very glad to write about
it. We reached Manassa as we supposed
in time for an afternoon meeting, but were
surprised to find a banquet had been pre-
pared instead in the new hall just purchased
by the sisters there for the use of the Relief
Society and Y. L. M. I. A. The decora-
tions with flags and bunting as well as
plants, vines and flowers was very hand-
some and impressive, and the tables fairly
“groaned with the weight of the feast.”
About two hundred and fifty people par-
took of the bounteous repast provided, the
lack of time prevented speech-making, al-
though the writer made a few remarks and
Sister Mortensen really rose to the occasion
in a few appropriate words.
	Our visit will long be remembered, Sis-
ter Snow always seemed able to suit the occa-
sion in her gentle way at all meetings, and
we both felt blest in our labors and enjoyed
the people we met as we traveled hither 
and thither up and down.


BIENNIAL IN DENVER.
	The Biennial meeting of the General
Federation of Clubs held in Denver, Col,
commencing Thursday, June 22, and clos-
ing Monday 27th, was without doubt an
unparelleled success. It was the largest and
most influential gathering of women of its
kind, that has ever assembled for really


[Column 1]
literary purposes. There can be no ques-
tion of the significance of such an auspicious
movement along the broad lines of higher
and more liberal thought and loftier pur-
poses, as well as the power of awaking the
consciousness of developing in all directions
latent gifts and capabilities in the human
soul, contact with each other is a force in
itself, and the club motto “Unity in Diver-
sity” was greatly accentuated in this re-
markable convention or congress. Hun-
dreds of bright an[-] [---] intellectual wo-
men meeting to compare notes, methods of
work and of discipline must very effectually
emphasize the movement aud bring women
to a better understanding of each other, and
the lines of work along which all may ar-
rive at a more complete aud harmonious
uplifting of human life. It must surely be
a motive power in moving the world in
many ways and teaching the purer soul-les-
sons of love.
	We are glad the proceedings are to be
published in book form, for in no other way
could an adequate idea be obtained of the
entire work accomplished. Much good seed
has been sown that will eventually spring
up, blossom and bear rich fruit, and the
bread cast upon the waters will return in
good time. The women of America may
look confidently forth into the next decade
for greater and better results than hereto-
fore achieved. Darkness is fleeing away
and. the light of truth, is bursting forth to
illumine the world.
	It is utterly impossible to “tell it all,” or
even to mention the names of the grand
women who were present at the Biennial,
names that carry with them so much mean-
ing to those who know the individual wo-
men, and therefore we can only say a word
or two of them and the great welcome ex-
tended to the Federation entire by the Den-
ver people; we give in another part of this
paper the address of welcome of the elo-
quent Governor of Colorado which speaks
in plain terms of their hospitality and mag-
nificent generosity, and as the Governor of
the state so was the Mayor of Denver, and
in like manner the people of the city and
the region roundabout.
	The banners, flags, flowers, plants and
vines with which Broadway theatre was
decorated were all suggestive of the senti-
ments patriotic and large-hearted that was
apparent on all sides. Among the organ-
zations that kept open house with all due
ceremony and courtesy and appropriate
paraphernalia was the Equal Suffrage Asso-
ciation, Press Association, Daughters of the
Revolution, Daughters of the American
Revolution and Colonial Dames, and served
tea, lemonade, wafers, candies etc. The
elegant homes of several citizens were
opened for receptions where beautiful wo-
men received and refreshments were served
by other women equally as pretty and
graceful—then there was a Garden party
given by the Press in charming private
grounds with fine music and tables under
the trees among the flowers, a most enjoy-
able place to meet friends, acquaintances
or strangers, people from north, south, east
and west, really it was all to much to be-
lieve and one can only say “the half can
never be told.” even though one tries to
remember. There were Trolley rides, ex-
cursions to gardens and parks, the long
days. ride around the Loop—all this and
much more and three meetings a day, why
it fatigues one to think of it only as we re-
member how delightful it all was.
	We shall never be able to tell what 

[Column 2]
charming women, intellectual, artistic,
brilliant, sentimental, grand and tender
were the many celebrated women from dif-
ferent parts of the country, authors, artists,
singers, musicians, clever in special lines
and with such exquisile taste and tact, one
wonders how it was possible for so many
women with such marked individuality to
affiliate so happily as they did.
	Jane Addams of Hull House fame stands
almost on a pinnacle in her economic, phil-
anthropic, enterprise for industrial women.
Mrs. Sydney Webb of England is also
very famous along these lines. Mrs. Webb’s
speech was “How to do away with the
sweating system.” Many young women
work in this direction, Corinne M. Brown
and women still younger representing work-
ing girls’ c[-]ubs of very large numbers, the
history of which was unique and the young
women an inspiration in their presence,
Miss Burkhardt, Miss Mathews, Mrs. Kem-
ler, Miss Haas and Miss Harrington.
	The authors most notable and best known
were Miss Agnes Repplier, Mrs. Ruth Mc-
Enery Stuart, Mrs. Kate Tannatt Woods
whom the writer has known for many
years, and who is now sojourning for a
time in this city, and who knew the cele-
brated Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, Ralph
Waldo Emerson and all those famous con-
temporary celebrities. Some time soon we
will give our readers a sketch of her life
and work, and here we must mention Miss
Alice French (Octave Thanet) and Helen M.
Winslow, editor of The Club Woman, the
official organ of clubs. When one comes to
newspaper women they were there from all
parts of the country, a very fine represen-
tation. In the world of art Mrs. Candace
Wheeler, the most famous woman, and
Miss Anna Caulfield deserve special men-
tion. In education Mrs. Mary E. Mumford,
Mrs. Harriet Heller, and Mrs. Ellen M.
Richardson and Mrs. Calvin S. Brice, in
the National University of Mrs. Richard-
son we desire to write later on. In Parlia-
mentary authority Mrs. H. R. Shuttuck and
Ellen Spencer Mussey, and in looking over
the list one stands appalled at the long ar-
ray of names of distinguished women in
literature, art, science, reform and indus-
trial progress.
	The Utah delegation did creditable work
and made a good representation and Utah
came in for her share of honor, one mem-
ber of the board of directors in the General
Federation, Mrs. Antoinette B. Kinney,
also Mrs. Martha B. Royle was placed on
the Roll of honor of the G. F. W. C., a dis-
tinction which Mrs. Royle rightly deserves,
a position which she will certainly dignify.
	It was a great source of satisfaction to the
writer that a Southern woman was elected
president of the Federation, Mrs. Rebecca
B. Lowe of Georgia, and we believe and
feel assured she will be liberal in her
views and magnanimous in her work
and prove herself a genuine, whole-souled
leader for all sections of this free country.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Miss Sarah E. Hunt of Boston, vice-
president of the D. R., was one of the
visitors to our city from the Biennial and
gave a little talk informally to a few ladies
in this office Friday afternoon, July 1. She
gave us a good idea of the general work
and much wholesome advice to assist us in
Utah. She is an easy and fluent speaker
and has a charming personality, that adds
much to the listener’s interest.

[Column 2]
	Mrs. Mary S. Gist and Mrs. Kate Tan-
natt Woods addressed a few ladies in the
lecture hall of the L. D. S. college rooms
in the Templeton, Tuesday evening, July
5. Mrs. Gist spoke of the W. N. P. A.
and of the Cuban Relief Committee, both
of Washington, D. C., and Mrs. Woods
read some of her celebrated poems and gave
personal reminiscences that were exceeding-
ly entertaining. It was a delightful eve-
ning.
	The Mothers’ Congress which was held
in the Asssmbly Hall in this city commenc-
ing June 30, and closing July 2, was a
complete success, and being the first of its
kind in the West demonstrated the fact that
Western women are alive to the best inter-
ests and welfare of the nation of which they
are an important part. Later we hope to
give a condensed account of the proceed-
ings, but our people, the Latter-day Saints,
have ever been alive upon the question of
motherhood, and through the Council of
Health and the Relief Society and other or-
ganizations of a later date have been incul-
cating the knowledge and insisting upon
the holiness of this condition, and its mani-
fold duties, obligations and responsibilities.
	Mrs. Clara B. Colby, editor of the Wo-
man’s Tribune, Washington, D. C., has
been duly accredited to the war Depart-
ment as a correspondent for her paper. It
is the first and only woman’s paper to re-
ceive such a pass, and only five or six wo-
men in all have been thus favored. War
correspondents have admission to the camps
and to the field, but have to report at head-
quarters and have their passes counter-
signed by the General in command. Their
passes enable them to be included in ar-
rangements for transportation, etc., they
bearing their own expenses. Their
movements are subject to such restrictions
as the commanding officers may impose
from time to time.
	Mrs. Margaret Blaine Salisbury invited
the members of the George Washington
Memorial Association to meet in her elegant
new residence and to hear Mrs. Ellen A.
Richardson of Boston, president of the soci-
ety, speak of the work from its ideal side,
and also to present to Mrs. Richardson a
summary of the Utah work. Mrs. Rich-
ardson gave us many facts, also many of her
own beautiful thoughts upon the Univer-
sity side, and the great success already at-
tained and her ardent hopes and aspirations
for the future. Mrs. Fabian read the re-
port, which was most encouraging. The
work appeals directly to the nation’s honor
and to each loyal individual man, woman
and child. Mrs. Richardson enters heart
and soul into the work.
	On Friday, July 8, Mrs. Sol. Siegel enter-
tained in her lovely home a lunch party of
fourteen ladies to meet her guest. Miss
Grace Carew Sheldon of Buffalo, N. Y.
The whole place was a bower of fragrance
and beauty, from the clematis at the doorway
through the entire suite of rooms opened
for the occasion. The table decorations
were unique, sweet peas in dainty bunches
tied with colored ribbon lay at each place,
also a card with the name, a flower of
diminutive size and a line which indicated
its meaning and expressed tender sentiment.
In the center of the table a large quaint
bowl of the most beautiful sweet peas and
two small but perfect flags indicated that
the loyal spirit of patriotism prevailed even


in this social gathering. Mrs. Woods of
Boston was one of the party and came in
for a share of the honors. Mrs. Siegel is a
charming hostess and her brilliant wit and
appetizing viands were greatly complimented
	Mrs. W. P. Lynn gave on Thursday July 7,
an afternoon party to forty or more ladies at
her home in this city, as an ovation to Mrs.
Kate Tannatt Woods of Boston, whose
very presence savors of celebrities such as
Holmes, Longfellow, Emerson, Alcott,
Whittier and other contemporaries who were
associated with her girlhood days. Mrs.
Lynn is original in all her ways and dur-
ing the afternoon several new surprises
burst upon the company. In the room
among other floral decorations pendant from
the chandelier were the three letters of
her guest’s name, K. T. W. in white
flowers. A card was presented to each lady,
hand painted with flowers by herself and a
quotation in Mrs. Woods’ writing and each
lady was expected to guess the au-
thor’s name, which caused considerable mer-
riment. Candies were passed with the ini-
tial K. T. W. on each piece, and the dain-
tiest refreshments served, one course after
another until one wondered what the next
surprise would be. Mrs. Woods read one
or two of her own poems which have been
illustrated and widely circulated in gift
books, and told us many interesting
things of Louise Alcott and Abraham Lin-
coln and others known to fame. Mrs. Norah
Gridley of Chicago gave one or two inci-
dents relating to President Lincoln in a
most graphic manner. We feel greatly
indebted to Mrs. Lynn for a delightful
afternoon, her own sweet self, her famous
guest and her pretty home, exquisite with
flowers and with good fellowship will ever
be a picture in memories’ cabinet.
	The visitors from the Federation at Den-
ver speak highly of the attention they have
received  in this city, also the Mining Con-
gress ladies. It is a source of satisfaction
that the Club committees on entertainment
and reception succeeded so well—the recital
in the Tabernacle, the trip to Saltair and
the reception given by Mrs. F. S. Richards
at her elegant home on the last evening of
the Mothers’ Congress were all up to date
affairs, particularly the reception; the house
was beautifully decorated and the guests
numerous and many distinguished people.
Among the strangers were Judge and Mrs.
Howell of Detroit, Michigan; Mrs. Kate
Tannatt Woods, poet, author, lecturer and
press woman, vice-president of the N. W.
P. A. for the state of Massachusetts and an
officer in the New England Press Club and
in many other clubs; Mrs. Ellen M. Hen-
rotin of Chicago, ex-president of the G.F.W.
C.; Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson of. Boston,
Mass., president of the George Washington
Memorial Association; Miss Grace Carew
Sheldon, author and newspaper corres-
pondent; Mrs. Mary S. Gist, vice-president
of the Women’s National Press Association
of Washington, D. C. and Regent Continen-
tal Chapter D. A. R., and member Ex.
Com. Cuban Relief Association, also a
newspaper woman; Mrs. Harriet Hellar of
Omaha, who was one of the speakers at the
Biennial in Denver and at the Mothers’
Congress in this city; Mrs. Norah Gridley
of Chicago, who is distinguished in many
lines of literature and others whose names
are familiar to the public. Mrs. Richards
and family may congratulate themselves on
having so many celebrated visitors as
guests of the occasion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING
	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall Saturday, May 30, 1898, President
Horne presiding. Singing “O, Jesus the
giver” Prayer by Sister Elizabeth Webb.
Singing “Glorious things are sung of
Zion.” The minutes of the previous
meeting were read and approved.
	President Horne rejoiced at being here
this afternoon, felt every meeting she
missed that it was a chapter which she had
lost, said she had been moving and it was
impossible for her to attend, gave her new
address which she wished the sisters all to
remember, it would be very easy to reach
by taking the Waterloo car which would
take any one to her door. Spoke of the
benefit of these meetings, said even the
brethren had to acknowledge that the re-
marks and testimonies of the sisters were
very beneficial, and after having once visit-
ed them did not want to miss any of them.
The speaker testified that Joseph Smith was
the greatest prophet who had ever been up-
on the earth with the exception of the
Savior, spoke of woman and her important
mission on earth, said the first commission
of the Savior was delivered to a woman,
when he told Mary to go and tell His disci-
ples that He had arisen from the dead.
She bore a strong testimony, thought time
was rolling on very rapidly, urged the sis-
ters to more humility and faithfulness, God
knows all our actions and He will fight our
battles, we need not fear. Said she was at
the meeting when the mantle of Joseph
Smith fell on Brigham Young.
	Sister Mary Silver said she felt she must
come to this meeting for this was her
strength, testified that the Saints would be
all right war or no war if they were faith-
ful, and bore her testimony.
	Sister Barnes made some remarks on the
war but felt it was all right and the Lord
would take care of us, desired to do her
duty at all times and asked the blessing of
the Lord upon us all.
	Sister Brixen felt she must come once
more to these meetings and say goodbye to
the sisters before leaving for Europe, she
expected to leave on the Monday. She is
going after her genealogy and she takes it
as a mission, she has no fear for she knows
the Lord will be with her as was promised
her in a blessing. Sister Brixen testified
that the Lord did hear and answer prayers,
told how for about twenty years she had
prayed that her husband might be con-
verted to the Gospel and how she had al-
most despaired of accomplishing it,but still
she could not give it up. She said now her
prayers had been answered and she was
happy to say that her husband was bap-
tized into the Church last Friday. She
asked the sisters to pray for her and bore a
strong testimony.
	Testimonies and remarks were made by
Sisters Smailey, Wilken and others, they
also testified how they had been healed by
going to the Temple. Singing “The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning.”
	Sister Elizabeth Paul testified to the
goodness of the Lord to her, that His hand
had been over her for good, said she had
been told in a blessing that she should save
her father’s house, felt that in these trouble-
some times all would be well with the
Saints and knew the Lord would preserve
His people.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said we had had a feast
this afternoon, while hearing the sisters

[Column 2]
talk she had many peculiar thoughts pass
through her mind, referred to the many
changes in the Church, said she liked to
carry burdens it made her strong, was al-
ways ready to help the weak and do her
duty,said the Lord helped those who helped
themselves and made many interesting re-
marks.
	Dr. Margaret Roberts said she wanted to
do all she could to help the young people,
felt the Relief Society work was a great one
and felt we were greatly blessed as a peo-
ple. She said her son was one who had
volunteered to go to war, it was only a
mother who understood how she felt at this
time, said the remarks that had been made
about the Lord protecting His people were
very comforting to her.
	President Horne said she had enjoyed the
meeting very much, said she knew it had
been beneficial and made beautiful closing
remarks. Said she felt to say that the
young men who went to war and who had
lived their religion would be all right and
would return in safety.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Sister
Lydia D. Alder.
				ZINA H. BULL, Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.

ANNE RASMUSSEN.
	Sister Anne Rasmussen, wife of Bishop R. Ras-
mussen, died on March 18, 1898, at Mink Creek,
Ida[-]o, aged sixty-seven years, two months and
one day. Sister Rasmussen was born in Den-
mark, embraced the Gospel there on July 13
1867, and emigrated to this country. She labored
as a teacher in the Re[-]ief Society for some years,
also held the position of first counselor to Sister
Graham for a number of years. She was a de-
voted wife, mot[-]er and Latter-day Saint, always
kept an open house for the Priesthood who
visited this section of country. She leaves a hus-
band and several c[-]ildren, who live in hopes of a
happy reunion. Peace to her memory.
			[-]NGRID GRAHAM, Prest, R. S.
Mink Creek, Idaho.
JANETTE DAVIS
	Sister Janette Davis died at her resid[-]nce in
Clifton, Idaho, March 24, 1897, after a long and
painful illness and severe suffering of ten weeks.
She was born in Glasgow, Scotland, December
23, 1834 She emigrated to Utah with her parents
[-]hen two years of age and settled in Salt Lake
City. She was the dau[-]hter of Joseph W. and
Mar[-]are[-] McMur[-]in and was married to Riley
Davis on the 25th of December 1872, in Sal[-] Lake
City and moved to Clifto[-] in July, 1873, where
she has resided ever since. She leaves a husb[-]nd
and four children, two sons and two daug[-]ters,
and many friends to mourn her loss. She was a
faithful member of the C[-]ifton Relief Society for
twenty years She acted as second counselor to
the pre[-]ident for eight years and she was presi-
dent o[-] the Society from March 1, 1896, until her
dea[-]h. We sincerely condole with the bereaved
family and relatives in their bereavement.
	The funeral se[-]vices were held in the Clifton
House, Sunday, March 28, 1897. Many of her
brethren and sisters testified to her nobility of
character and greatness of soul. Appropriate re-
marks were made by Stake President George C.
Parkinso[-] of Presto[-]; Elder Samuel Parkinson
of Franklin; Elde[-]s Petty and Homer of Oxford;
and Bishop E. G. Farmer of Clifton. At 4 o’clock
the large assembly viewed the remains and then
proceeded to their homes, not being able to follow
the remains to the tom[-] on account of the severi-
ty of the weather. The remains were carried to 
the cemetery in a covered sleigh accompanied by
her husband and a few male relatives and friends,
where all that was earthly of our much loved
friend and [-]ister was laid in the grave by the side
of her little babes who had died in their infancy.
		Rest in peace, the victory’s won,
		Al[-] thou canst do Thou hast done.

					D. C. DUDLEY,
					MARY A. GARNER,
					JANE M. HOWELL,
							Committee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

		NEW ORGANIZATION.
	Minutes of a meeting held in the Twenty-
fourth ward meeting house for the purpose
of completing the Relief Society organiza-
tion of the ward, May 12, 1898, Present
on the stand were Stake President M. Isa-
bella Horne, Counselors Annie T. Hyde
and Clara C. Cannon, and of the Bishopric,
John Bond and James Christiansen, also
President Sarah M. Kimball, Harriet A.
Badger and Mary E. Gray of the Fifteenth
ward. Meeting was called to order by President
Margaret Nightingale, who had been set
apart at the meeting called for the ward or-
ganization. Opened by singing “We thank
Thee oh God for a Prophet.” Prayer by
Brother John Bond. Singing “Come, come
ye Saints.” President Margaret Nightin-
gale explained the object of the meeting.
	Stake President M. I[-]abella Horne said
for the benefit of those present the instruc-
tions of the Prophet Joseph Smith given at
the organization of the Relief Society at
Nauvoo would be read.
	The enrollment of members then followed.
President Margaret Nightingale chose for
her counselors Catherine Keller and Ellen
Buist, each of whom was sustained in that
office by voteof the members. Ellen Mower
was nominated as secretary and Mary
Howell as treasurer, both being sustained
in that office.
	These officers were then set apart to their
offices in the following order by the
Bishop’s counselors, John Bond and James
Christiansen: Catherine Keller and Ellen
Buist, counselors; Ellen Mower, secretary;
Mary Howells, treasurer.
	After the business was finished instruc-
tions were given by the following speakers:
President Sarah M. Kimball, Stake Coun-
selor, Annie T. Hyde, Stake President M.
Isabella Horne; of the Bishopric, James
Christiansen and John Bond; and President
Margaret Nightingale.
	Meeting was closed by singing “Our God
we raise to Thee.” Benediction by Brother
James Christiansen.
		SARAH A. PRICE, Act. Sec.
		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
held in St. Charles Sunday, May 29, 1898.
Meeting called to order at 11 a. m. by
President Julia Lindsay. After singing,
prayer was offered by President James H.
Hart. Singing “We thank Thee O, God
for a prophet.” Roll called, Stake officers
present five; officers of the various branch-
es five.
	President Lindsay addressed the sisters.
She said the Relief Society presidency had
been able to visit but few of the branches
this season, but intended to do so in the
near future. Felt very grateful to our
Heavenly Father for His mercy that
surrounds us, sometimes she found that she
was not as grateful as she should be.
	The verbal reports were as follows: St.
Charles by President Gallaway; Blcoming-
ton by President Peterson; Montpelier by
President Hoganson; Bennington was re-
ported by President Julia Lindsay who had
recently visited the Society and found it in
a good condition.
	Dingle was reported by President Jane
Sparks who also exhorted the sisters to
teach by example, it is better than precept.
The young people should be faithful in at-

[Column 2]
tending their meetings and in all other
duties, hoped the Lord would bless and
strengthen our presiding officers that they
might live many years and labor among us.
	President Lindsay stated that in conse-
quence of the president’s death the Relief
Society at Wardboro was disorganized but
their meetings were continued. Showed
the necessity of the sisters having good,
substantial granaries that our grain may be
saved for a time of need, we are instructed
to save flour, it has been proven that it can
be kept in good condition for many years,
gave much valuable instruction and asked
the blessing of the Lord upon all.
	President James H. Hart felt thankful to
live in a day when woman occupied the
high and lofty position God designed for
her. We must all labor together for the
accomplishment of His purposes, there is
no exaltation except there is union, the sis-
ters who are appointed to preside over the
different organizations are called of God and
should be respected in those positions. We
are dependent upon our Heavenly Father
for all the wisdom we receive, and all
things we receive here and expect to re-
ceive hereafter, through the holy priesthood
we receive nearly every blessing; it should
be honored and respected.
	Hymn “Sweet is the work my God my
King.” Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock.
Benediction by Bishop E. C. Kutch.
	Mee[-]ing was called to order at 2 p. m. by
President Julia Lindsay. Singing “Now
we'll sing with one accord.” Prayer by
Elder Quinton. Singing “An angel from
on high.” Sacrament was then adminis-
tered, during which the choir sang “O God
the Eternal Father.” The statistical and
financial report for the year ending Dec.
31, 1897 was read by the secretary.
	Counselor L. M. Hart said it required a
great deal of energy to address a congre-
gation like this, felt grateful for a knowl-
edge of the divinity of this work, we have
everything to stimulate us to faithfulness.
Said it was great folly for us to neglect
those things pertaining to our future exal-
tation for the perishing things of the earth,
had never attended our sacrament meetings
and partaken of the sacred influence with-
out receiving strength. An important
part of our mission is to help those who are
in need whoever they may be, woman’s
sphere is being extended, she is making
rapid advancement in many branches of edu-
cation. Said that every branch should be
reported and a president who does not make
an effort to have her branch of the Society
represented twice a year at these conferences
is not worthy of that position.
	Sister Cook reported the Thomas Fork
Relief Society.
	Sister Mary Bagley, one of the aids to
the Stake presidency, was the next speaker.
She said she esteemed it a great privilege to
live in this day when the Gcspel has been
restored with all its gifts and blessings,
though we may have many trials to endure
we are comforted by the Spirit of God.
Spoke at some length upon the benefits de-
rived from attending our meetings and
associating with our sisters.
	President Lindsay spoke very impressive-
ly upon subjects of importance to the sisters
and invoked the blessing of God upon all.
	The minutes were read and approved, the
choir sang “The Lord Reigneth” and con-
ference was adjourned for six months.
Closing prayer by President J. H. Hart.
		N. H. ALLRED, Sec.

[Column 3]
		WASATCH STAKE.
	The National Relief Society conference
of Wasatch Stake convened in the Stake
house at Heber on June 2, 1898, at 10:30 a.
m. Meeting opened by singing “Down by
the river’s verdant side.” Prayer was
offered by Brother Joseph Murdock. The
choir sang “God moves in a mysterious
way.” The roll was called showing nine-
teen officers present. On the stand were,
Sister Sarah Alexander of the Stake presi-
dency; President Jane S. Richards of Ogden;
first vice-president of the National Wo-
man’s Relief Society; Sister Emily S. Rich-
ards of Salt Lake City, and presidents of
the various branches of the Society in the
Stake; there were also present President
Abram Hatch and counselors; Bishops Duke
and Hicken of Heber, and Bishop Mur-
dock of Charleston, besides many other-
prominent members of the Church.
	A report was given from each of the fol-
lowing branches in the Stake. Heber East,
Heber West, Midway, Wallsburg, Charles'
ton, Woodland and Center; each of these
was reported as being in good condition.
	Following the reports Sister Sarah Alex-
ander spoke for a short time, then Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards of Ogden addressed
the meeting. She said she was pleased to
see so many present and to hear such good
reports from the various wards and hoped
the same spirit would accompany her re-
marks that the previous speaker had pos-
sessed. She referred to the humility of our
Savior as he went among the poor, and of
the grand work of the redemption of our
dead, encouraged the sisters in their good
works and instructed them in regard to
their duties in this important Society.
	President Abram Hatch spoke for a short
time expressing his appreciation of the good
reports that had been given and encourag-
ing the sisters to continue in the good work.
	Sister Emily S. Richards, of Salt Lake,
followed with a few appropriate remarks,
also instructing the sisters in regard to their
duties in the Society and advising them not
to neglect their family duties, but to divide
their time that each might have the proper,
attention.
	The choir sang “Let those who would be 
Saints indeed.” Benediction was offered
by Bishop N. C. Murdock of Charleston,
after which meeting was adjourned until 2
p. m.
	Afternoon session. Meeting was called
to order at 2 p. m., the choir sang and
prayer was offered by Brother Robert Lind-
say. The choir sang “Come all ye Saints.”
Sister Emily S. Richards said she had
never refused to speak when called upon 
since she was twenty years of age. Re- 
ferred to the unity of the Latter-day Saints 
and to the good influence at these meetings,
spoke of the proper training of children and
advised the sisters to go to the Lord for
guidance in all things, alluded to some of
the benefits derived from the sisters going
on missions and referred to the perfect or-
ganization of the Church.
	President Jane S. Richards was pleased
to see so many present and such interest
being taken in these meetings, advised the
sisters to be careful with their wheat and
save it in case there should come a famine,
gave some instruction in regard to conduct-
ing the Relief Society meetings and prayed
for the blessing of the Lord to rest upon all.
	President Hatch felt to thank the visiting 
sisters for their presence and instructions at
the conference, exhorted the sisters to teach


[Column 1]
their children virtue and sobriety and gave
other good advice.
	Sister Sarah Alexander made a few re-
marks. She thought a younger person
should be selected as Stake president of the
Relief Society of Wasatch. She was then
honorably released from serving as coun-
selor to the president. A vote of thanks
was then tendered Sister Alexander and her
labors commended. It was then moved
and unanimously carried that Sister Annie
R. Duke act as president of the Relief Society
of Wasatch Stake, with Sister Elizabeth
Murdock and Louisa Alexander as first and
second counselors, President Jane S. Rich-
ards officiating in organizing the Stake Re-
lief Society. Each of these sisters expressed
their willingness to do the best they could.
Sister Hannah Harbour was voted in to
continue as Stake secretary, and Sister
Rhoda Ohlwiler as Stake treasurer.
	The choir and congregation sang “We
thank Thee O, God for a Prophet,” and
benediction was offered by Brother T. H.
Giles.
				HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Salt Lake Stake Relief
Society conference held in the Assembly
hall June 4, 1898.
	Morning session. On the stand were
Counselors A. T. Hyde and C. C. Cannon.
Counselor B. W. Smith of the General
board, Sisters E. S. Taylor, E. Stevenson,
L. D. Alder and M. W. Wilcox. Meeting
opened by singing “God moves in a mys-
terious way.” Prayer by Sister L. D.
Alder. Singing “What was witnessed in
the heavens.” Counselor Annie T. Hyde
presided. The secretary not being present
Sister Lydia D. Alder was called to act in
that capacity. Roll call showed a large at-
tendance of officers.
	Counselor Hyde welcomed the sisters
and stated that President M. I. Horne had
been thrown from a buggy and was bruised
about the face, but hoped she would be able
to meet with us yet; also spoke of the nurs-
ing class and requested President E.S. Tay-
lor of the General board of the Y. L. M. I. A.
to address the conference and state her
feelings in regard to the class.
	Sister Taylor said she thought the move-
ment a grand one “To think that one
hundred and fifty of our sisters can obtain
a good training to enable them to nurse the
sick and also to nurse their own families
skillfully! I am proud that some of our
young ladies have volunteered to take this
course of study. A nurse should love to do
good, love those around her and be cheerful
in the presence of the sick. Many of you
may never be called upon to nurse the poor,
but should you, your heart should be so
generous that you will be willing to bless
others, then you will have the greater re-
muneration. The Lord loves the poor and
desires to take care of them. Think well
about this matter, it may be the opportuni-
ty of your lives.”
	Counselor B. W. Smith heartily endorsed
the movement spoken of by Sister Taylor
and urged the sisters to study for the beau-
tiful calling, to bless the sick and afflicted.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson also spoke in ref-
erence to the nursing class, earnestly ad-
vocating the organization of the same.
	Singing “We thank Thee O, God for a
prophet.” Counselor A. T. Hyde spoke of
the class, thought it would indeed be a
blessing to all who participated in it, and

[Column 2]
read some of the regulations pertaining
thereto,. Sister Hyde introduced Dr.
Roberts who stated the conditions on which
the class was to be organized. There were
some questions asked and answered, so that
a thorough understanding might be reached.
	Dr. E. S. Barney spoke on the subject of
nursing and encouraged the sisters to press
on and acquire knowledge.
	Lydia D. Alder being called upon made
a few remarks pertaining to the class, ex-
plaining some of the good that would re-
sult from it.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon also endorsed the
movement and made some excellent re-
marks. Sister M. W. Wilcox followed,
felt that God had charge of the movement.
	Dr. Roberts called upon the sisters who
proposed entering to meet her at the lecture
hall in the Templeton at 1 o’clock sharp for
organization. Conference adjourned until
2 p. m., by singing “Do what is right.”
Benediction Clara C. Cannon.
	Afternoon session. Opened by singing
“Our God we raise to thee.” Prayer by
Sister Mary J. Lambert. Singing.
	Sister Elizabeth Webb addressed the con-
ference, spoke of the great facility now en-
joyed by those who strive after knowledge,
also the opportunities for a knowledge of
the truth of the Gospel which we enjoy.
	“Who are these arrayed in white?” was
beautifully rendered by Sisters Maggie Hull
and Maria Winder.
	Sister Mary A. Hyde spoke of the signs
of the times, counseled the sisters not to
find fault and closed by speaking in tongues;
interpreted by Sister Elizabeth Paul.
	Counselor Mary L. Morris of the Primary
board of the Stake, said: “There is noth-
ing outside of this Gospel for me. Do not
cease to love the Gospel.”
	Sister Lydia D. Alder spoke of the great
mission of the Prophet Joseph, and the im-
portance of the Book of Mormon explaining
the wonderful vision of Nephi, from that
record.
	President Steele reported the 1st ward;
President Silcock, Riverton; President Bassett
the 2nd; also the 9th, Forestdale, Taylorsville,
Union, 22nd, 24th, Murray, Center and East
Jordan, were reported in a flourishing con-
dition by their presiding officers.
	Counselor Hyde made closing remarks
and gave instructions to the Relief Society
which were timely, also spoke of the wheat
hoping they would bear in mind the de-
sire of President Horne; announced that the
nursing class had been formed and would
open at 10 o’clock on Monday, June 6, at
the Templeton, spoke encouragingly to the
sisters and felt to thank the faithful sisters
who had conducted the singing. Confer-
ence adjourned until the first Saturday in
September. Singing “The time is far
spent.” Benediction by Elizabeth Webb.
			L. D. ALDER, Act. Sec.

MILL CREEK PRIMARIES.
	Perhaps a few words from the Mill Creek
Primary Associations would be of interest.
There are five branches of the association
in the ward, all meet together once a year
in an annual meeting. Each association
furnishes a portion of the program, June 1
being the day chosen. It serves a twofold
purpose; the children are reminded that it
is the birthday of our great leader, Presi-
dent Brigham Young. Many interesting
items were related of his life and labors, etc.
	On the stand were Stake President Camil-
la C. Cobb, her two counselors, Sisters

[Column 3]
Lydia A. Wells and Mary L. Morris; Jen-
nie Hill and Luella Cornwall, aids; Bishop
James C. Hamilton, Counselor James R.
Miller, Brother Richard Horne and many
other brethren, also three presidents, two
being detained at home. Meetings were
held both in the forenoon and afternoon,
lunch being served at the meeting house.
The house was beautifully decorated with
bunting, flowers, etc. A good spirit pre-
vailed during the day and all expressed
themselves of the opinion that this was the
best conference ever held in the ward. The
report showed an enrollment of 424 members
and an average attendance of 276.
	Remarks were made by the Stake offic-
ers, the Bishop and counselors. The pro-
gram consisted of essays, songs, recitations,
etc., which were worthy of special mention
as all took their little parts so well. As
this was the first conference Sister Ellen
Clawson attended after being chosen presi-
dent and the last one visited before her
death, special mention was made of her and
the great good she accomplished in her
weak, humble way. They also spoke very
encouragingly to the children and parents,
they were indeed pleased to see so many
mothers present. At the close Bishop
James C. Hamilton arose and said: “Sis-
ters you are engaged in a noble work and
great will be your reward.” He then
blest the officers both Stake and local, also
the little children. Thus closed a most
pleasant day.
			NELLIE CORNWALL, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Save Your Money!

	And when you get a do lar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts. 
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW. 

		We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
	
		WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street. 

			R. K. THOMAS
	Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.

		SALT LAKE CITY.

		The Leading Retail

Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
VOL. 27.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1898. No. 5.


CONTENTS:

	International Council of Women. Clara Bar-
ton’s Report. Mrs. Gates Letter. The Mothers’
Congress—Hannah Sorensen. The Metropole—
Helen V. Kimball. An Eminent Visitor—A. M.
H. Officers Meeting. In Memoriam. Relief Soci-
ety Branches. R. S. Reports. Notes and News.

	EDITORIAL—Maine Martyr Memorial Day.
Special Notice N. W. R. S Sad and Sorrowful.
Woman’s Work in War. Pioneer Pa k. Editor-
ial Notes.

	POETRY:—The Sable Messenger—Lu Dalton.
Angels’ Whispers—Ellis R. Shipp


[Column 1]
THE SABLE MESSENGER.

There was grief in the heart of the mother—
	A sorrow unspeakably deep,
And the loving young sister and brother
	Stole out of the chamber to weep.
Each friend that stood by felt the shadow,
	The cold, creeping shadow of woe,
As in trembling and tears they awaited
	The moment when Leah must go.

Afar to some beautiful country
	Beyond the wide horizon’s rim,
(So far and so lovely none ever
	Returned from its boundaries dim;)
Her father had years ago journeyed,
	Left wife and sweet little ones all—
But here is a messenger from him,
	His dearly loved Leah to cal[-].

“Thy father has sent for thee, Leah,”
	The messenger whispering said,
And stood with his long sable mantle
	Enveloping even his head.
’Twas rumored that never a mortal
	Dared look in the face such as he,
Lest eyesight be blasted or even
	He cease of the living to be,

How black was that long shrouding m[-]ntle!
	How hollow that voice and how low!
And Leah clung close to her mother,
	And shuddered, and dreaded to go.
“O mother, I fear this dark stranger,”
	She panted in tremulous tone,
“I know not the way—is there danger?
	Oh, must I go, mother, alone?”

Close, close to the heart of the mother
	Her tender arms folded her child,
And, torn with unspeakble sorrow,
	She pleaded in agony wild—
“Oh, spare me this trial, I pray thee! 
Oh, break not a mother’s fond heart!
Return by the way which thou camest;
	And alone, oh in mercy! depart.”
 
There were tears in the eyes of the mother,
	And sobbing outside on the stair,
And sympathy saddened each o[-]her,
	Who waited expectantly there.
But sternly unmoved stood the stranger, 
As still as a statue of Fate;
He stirred not a fold of his mantle
	But icily whispered “I wait ”

The moon hid her face in a cloud-vail
	The tremulous stars ceased to shine,
The wind with its eerie low moaning
	Swept mournfully through the dark pine.
All sound faltered low into si[-]ence—
	Fond nature seemed holding her breath—
The thought sped from bosom to bosom,
	“How dreadful how cruel is death!”

[Column 2]
At length with a slow, stately motion,
	The stranger a step drew more near,
And Leah her startled eyes lifted,
	All darkened and heavy with fear.
He opened his arms to enfo[-]d her.
	The pall drew aside from his brow,
And lo! the dear face of her father
	Smiled lovingly over her now.

What glorious flash no[-] illumines
	The sweet face so pallid and worn!
What luster those heavy eyes brightens,
	Light sunshine above a dark storm!
“Papa!” cried the sweet voice, and lifting
	Frail hands like the wings of a bird,
“Goodbye, dear mamma,” low she whispered,
	And sprang to his arms at the word

There were sighs from the lone hearted mother,
	Caressing the pale, lovely clay;
There were tears from the sister and brother,
	For Leah had vanished away;
But the smile of her joy softly lingered
	Around the cold, beautiful face,
That seemed to her dear ones remaining
	A token of heavenly grace.
						[-] U DALTON


INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
			WOMEN. 

	A conference of the International Coun-
cil of Women convened in London July 5
and 6, to make preparations for the quin-
quennial session of the Council which will
be held in London in the summer of 1899.
	The conference was open only to mem-
bers of the Executive Committee and the
Committee on Arrangements. The first day
was occupied by a business session of the
Executive Committee; the second was de-
voted by the Committee of Arrangements
to discussing the proposition relating to the
Quinquennial already submitted by the dif-
ferent National Councils composing the In-
ternational.
	The United States was represented by 
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, who went over
to preside over the conference in the en-
forced absence of Lady Aberdeen. Mrs.
Alice Wheeler Pierce and Miss Octavia
Williams Bates who went as delegates, and
the Countess di Brazza, who sat in the con-
ference as the proxy of the president of the
National Council of Women of the United
States.—Ex.


CLARA BARTON’S REPORT. 

	New York, July 16.—A telegram re-
ceived today by the executive committee of
the Red Cross from Miss Clara Barton dated
Playa Del Este, July 15, is as follows:
	Santiago has surrendered. I came from
the front yesterday in a pouring rain.
Fever is suspected here. Siboney is burned.
Dr. Lesser and Mrs. Lesser and all their
nurses are in the fever hospital two miles
distant. I saw them today and all are doing
well. Four army surgeons of the St. Paul
are with us, there being no other provision
for them.
	We are feeding the refugees of Sibony,
and many thousands at Eurmisea, by rail.


Elwell is feeding them at Caney by army
wagons, and 20,000 by pack mules, 15
miles travel.
	Commander McCalla of the Marblehead,
called yesterday for 100,000 rations, medi-
cines and clothing for the refugees in the
woods in the country surrounding Guan-
tanamo. Nothing is known of boats or of
aid of any kind from any other source.
State of Texas has fed all the wounded at
the front, and is helping them home.
	All members of the Red Cross are in per-
fect health, thoroughly organized.
	A telegram has been received from Red 
Cross Agent Kent at Jacksonville who
states that Col. Maus, surgeon-in-chief,
has just returned from Miami and reports
much sickness there, with a great need of
milk and ice. The Red Cross launch
Moyner has been repaired and will be
ready to leave Jacksonville Monday, for
Key West.
	Advices just received from Key West in-
dicate that the Red Cross will reach Santia- 
go Tuesday next with the much needed
supplies and surgeons.


MRS. GATES’ LETTER.

Provo, July 19, 1898.
My Dear Aunt Em:

	After the convention closed in Denver on
June 27th I remained in Denver, as you
know, as the guest of Apostle John W.
Taylor. I had a most delightful visit with
Brother Taylor and his kind, gentle wife,
receiving many attentions also from the
Elders in that mission; I must mention the
kindness of Elders Ensign and Graham,also
the unfailing courtesy of Elder White, not
forgetting the thoughtfulness of Brother
Pack and the exceeding sweetness of Elder
Clive’s magic violin. In short all the
Elders were as good to me as if I had been
their own mother, and I shall not soon for-
get my visit nor the pleasant friendships re-
newed and formed.
	Apostle Taylor called the sisters of the
Relief Society together in Denver and we
spent an hour or so at Sister Taylor’s talk-
ing upon the duties and privileges of this
organization. Sister Lowery, a lady from
Boston, is the president of the organization
there. She is of a very mild and yet strong-
character with perfect manners and a will- 
ing, helpful disposition. She is very anx-
ious for more light and assistance in her
duties, and I recommended her to take
the "Exponent" and communicate with
you. There are thirty sisters in this branch,
who are very earnest and faithful members.
	The next branch visited was Colorado
Springs which has just been organized since
last February. There are only four fami-
lies in this branch and all the women be- 
long to the Relief Society. Sister Lenora
Adams is the president with Sister Dena
Myers as first and Alice Johnson as second 
counselors and Susie Johnson as secretary
and treasurer. I gave them some iustruc-
tion as to the duties of officers, mode of con-
ducting meetings and blessed them as the


Spirit suggested in their labors.  It was
very interesting to examine thus the be-
ginning of the great work which grows al-
ways with uplifting power. All these
branches and the branches of the Church
are of very recent origin and in great con-
trast to the old, well established organiza-
tions which I have attended in my life.
	At Pueblo Apostle Taylor joined us and
we held three public meetings. Also or-
ganized the Relief Society.
	We have great reason to rejoice in the
great blessings meted out to the Saints and
for the rapid spread and increase of the
work of God. I trust you yourself will
some day be able to visit these faithful and
earnest sisters of the Colorado mission.
			Yours lovingly,
				SUSA YOUNG GATES.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


THE MOTHER’S CONGRESS.

Dear Sister Wells:
	Now that the Congress festivities of the
“Mothers of America” are over, both in
national capacity and state as far as our own
dear Utah is concerned—and I have been
privileged to be an active participant in the
one and a silent observer in the other—I
feel impressed to write a few words of in-
formation for those who may be interested
in the move to advance motherhood.
	As far as our Utah Congress of Mothers
is concerned, I was a silent observer and of
course am not informed enough to express
my views; but at the National Congress of
Mothers I had the honor of being an active
participant, and as such can speak facts.
The only conclusion I can come to (according
to my silent observations) is that too few
of our Utah people are acquainted with the
effort that has been made here in regard to
educating women for motherhood. In gen-
eral terms this manner of education has
been in operation here in Utah from the be-
ginning of its existence, through the Relief
Society and later the Young Ladies Asso-
ciation, but later still a special work for
the education of motherhood has been in
operation, and of which I give myself the
credit of being the originator. It is now
between nine and ten years since I started
this special work here in Utah for the sole
purpose of better qualifying women for
motherhood, and one of the consequences
was that I was invited to attend the Nation-
al Congress of Mothers, at Washington, D.
C., this spring as delegate to represent my
work. I went there to represent about fif-
teen hundred women of Utah and bring
their greeting to the Congress. 
	About a year ago blanks were sent to me
from headquarters at Washington, which
would unquestionably give an understand-
ing of the nature of my work.
	In brief, I will say that I went to that
blessed Congress at Washington, and the
privileges I enjoyed, the honor and respect
conferred upon me was something that I
never dreamed would ever be my lot. I
went with comfort and hope in my soul,
having been set apart for the mission and
the blessings promised were literally ful-
filled. The first day of Congress I gave
my report like the other delegates. It was
listened to with great interest which was
proven from the enthusiasm manifested
through applause. It was the only work
of its nature reported and seemed to fill a 
vacant place. I gave my report verbally,
which was very much appreciated, so much

[Column 2]
so that the president took me warmly by
the hand saying: “Oh I am so glad, that
was from the heart; that is the way I wish
you to speak tomorrow.” I was on the
program for the next day, to treat the sub-
ject, “The Physical Side of Motherhood.”
	I went to the meeting with my soul full
of gratitude that I would be privileged to
present to this important assemblage of wo-
men the principles that are so dear to me,
and which I think so important to the true
adornment of the human race. I went
there fasting and praying, and my Heaven-
ly Father blessed me, I know. I had no
paper, I spoke of my subject as I knew it.
I know it was appreciated by the audience
from the enthusiasm manifested. After the
applause ceased several written notes were
sent up to me (by the ushers) of congratula-
tion and appreciation, asking for interviews
with me at the close of the meeting. One
lady from New York wrote me: “I am go-
ing right home and organize such work. I
would give anything if I could get you
along with me to start us out with your
counsel and advice. Please let me have an
interview with you after this meeting.”
When I came down from the platform and
the meeting was closed it seemed that every
one wanted to shake my hand and be intro-
duced to “the delegate from Utah,” and to
tell me who they were. The next morning
ing when I came and took my seat a beau-
tiful bouquet of flowers was handed over to
me with the words: “This is in apprecia-
tion of what you said yesterday. I am
delegate from Arkansas.”
	I would not have you think that I am
speaking of these things in a boasting spirit,
oh no, far from it! but it is in honor of the
noble women, and with the fulness of my
soul’s gratitude to my Heavenly Father. I
have no honor for myself, it is all His.
	It was so intensely desired that I should
have held a special conference, they called
it, in my line of work, and it was tried
hard every day during the week to get that
brought about by all those who were so en-
thusiastic—the president as much as any
one—but the program was so extensive and
time so very crowded, that it was not pos-
sible to get the time for it, and when I said
goodbye the beloved president said warmly
to me: “I am so sorry we could not get to
hold that conference, but you must be with
us again, we must hear more from you.”
And she added, “I am so glad we have just
received a telegram today from Salt Lake
City stating that they are organizing a
Mothers’ Congress, so you will be right
in it when you get home.” I thanked her
very heartily for her kind feeling and the
way she had treated me, and was silent for
the balance.
	When it was found that it was not pos-
sible to hold that special conference, I obli-
gated myself by promise to many delegates
to send them after I returned all the infor-
mation I could in writing concerning my
work. I have now done so, in as much as
have sent to eleven states in America
long, long letters of explanations, accom-
panied by my little book “What Women
Should Know.” I have done it on the
missionary plan, thankful if I can in this
way be instrumental in the hands of God to
bring some light to those who wish to have
it.
	I say in honor of that blessed woman, the
president of the National Congress, Mrs.
Theodore W. Birney, that she is a model
of grace, humility and symplicity. One is

[Column 3]
drawn towards her with the love of a sister.
God bless her in her noble calling!
	I have a word more to say in honor of
our esteemed Senator at Washington,
Hon. Frank J. Cannon and wife, for their
great kindness and consideration towards
me while at Washington. I shall never for-
get it and my soul is full of blessings for
them and all theirs, that God will reward
them for their manifestations of love and
respect to their humble sister.
			HANNAH SORENSEN.
P. S. I forgot to say that I have had a
most beautiful letter from the president of 
the National Congress of Mothers since I
came home—a letter of sympathy and en-
couragement asking also for information in
my line of work, and it finishes with the
words: “You must be with us again.”

	While on my sojourn in the East I had
also the privilege of visiting Chicago for a
period of five weeks. It was a very plea-
sant experience I had there in many ways,
but what I especially wish to refer to there
is the organization, or branch of our Church
organization there. I did not expect to find
such a flourishing little branch there as I
did, so I received very unexpectedly a very
pleasant impression. Our Elders laboring
there are types of intelligent men full of
ambition and energy, but the most beauti-
ful ornamentation I found in these dear
brethren was the unmistakable stamp of
humility. It was so gratifying to me to
silently notice the interest, love, grace and
respect which these dear brethren mani-
fested toward their little flock when they
met to worship the Lord. I should per-
haps not say little flock, for I think the
average attendance on Sundays was fifty or
sixty, and I think that is very good when
we consider that it is a new mission, so to
speak. They have a beautiful hall where
they hold their meetings which would do
honor to any society be they ever so aristo-
cratic, but the best of it was that they had
the most perfect order and cleanliness mani-
fest on all occasions.	*	*	*
	I attended several of the meetings of the
little branch of the Relief Society while
there, held in private houses among the
sisters who belong to the Society. It num-
bers about fourteen members, I believe,
who as a rule are all present except in case
of sickness. Their president, a very esti-
mable woman, is a Sister Smith who a few
years back was a resident of Nephi here in
Utah, but on account of circumstances re-
sides at present in Chicago. She is well
qualified for the position she occupies, in-
telligent, modest and warm-hearted, and
has the respect of those who preside in the
branch. Their secretary, Sister Ericksen,
is a very efficient secretary, punctual and
orderly, and in short it was a group of sis-
ters in whose company I enjoyed myself
very much. Their methods of meeting
were of the same order that we have here
at home with two exceptions (and these ex-
ceptions were very pleasant features) name-
ly, the members were regular attendants
and of the Elders of the mission two or
three were also regular attendants.
							H. S.


The Adams Express company has an-
nounced that it will carry packages of goods
from relatives to the soldiers in any of the
camps in the South, or to the naval for-
warding points, at 25 per cent below the
usual express rates.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ANGELS' WHISPERS

Sweeter than the breath of roses
	Lingering on the dewy air,
Wafting as the daylight closes
	To my heart bowed down with care,
Blessed thought that Father loves me,
		And doth hear my fervent prayer.

Gentle words in softest accent,
	Whispered in my listening ear:
Weep not for thy boy though absent,
	Dry that secret burning tear;
Thy Creator knows and loves thee!
	Lift thy soul and do not fear.

Guarding e'er with unseen power
	Sheltering him so far away,
Though where shot and shell doth shower,
	He the missiles flight can stay,
Ever trust the God of Battles!
	Live thou near Him day by day.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP. 
July 23, 1898.


[Column 1]
HOTEL METROPOLE.

Avalon, Santa Catalina Island, Cal.
					July 8, 1898.
Dr. Pratt, President, and ladies of the
		Press Club:
	I send you my most cordial and affection-
ate greetings; my sincere wishes for a
pleasant and restful summer.
	I will tell you as briefly as I can in a
letter what I have been doing since I left
Utah. Two weeks were given to San Fran-
cisco and vicinity, with frequent calls at
Camp Merritt. The boys were quite well
and a credit to their state, but disappointed
that they were left as home guards when
they expected to sail soon for the Philip-
pines; but they need not be impatient they
may have their chance for active service
and destruction. While it looks now as if
the end were not far in the future, I am one
who believes the war will be long, I have
never felt quite sure it would end in a few
weeks. My sojourn was pleasant as I have
many dear friends there, while much time
was devoted to sight seeing.
	The last of June we came to Los Angeles,
“City of the Angels,” the garden of Eden
as one friend remarked, and truly with
Pasadena, Riverside and Santa Monica it is
the garden spot of California, though not so
beautiful as when I visited the place four
years ago—owing to the drouth. As usual
we had an earthquake, light said the people,
but it wakened me from a sound sleep and
my bed rocked three times and it was noisy.
A friend at Redoude said there was a wall
of kelp several feet high in front of their
cottage, so there must have been quite a
disturbance somewhere. We visited the
ostrich farm, not nearly so interesting as
the one at Phoenix, Arizona, the birds are
not so large.
	One of the most lovely halting places of
my journey was at Avalon, on Santa Cata-
lina Island. The train took us to San
Pedro harbor, we embarked on the steamer
Falcon and were soon plowing the blue
waters of Santa Catalina channel, the island
is about twenty miles distant. The trip
across is a delightful experience, we were
told, that a person must be extremely sen-
sitive to suffer with sea sickness, but a large
majority were sensitive. The sky is clear,
the water blue, the air balmy, the flying
fishes dart from the waves and fly an eighth
of a mile. Something over two hours sail
and the magic island is reached. Santa

[Column 2]
Catalina is an island twenty-two miles long;
greatest width seven and a half miles; cir-
cumference sixty miles; area fifty-five
thousand acres. It abounds in lofty moun-
tains, deep gorges, stupendous rocks, cliffs
and precipices, and in winter is a semi-
tropic garden.
	Avalon, upon the bay of that name, is
the fashionable resort of Southern Califor-
nia. The Metropole is the principal hotel,
there are cottages and a city of tents, which
many prefer to the comforts and conven-
ences of the hotels. From C. F. Holder’s
“South Catalina and Isles of Summer.”
“The discovery within the present decade
of some papers in a public library of Mad-
rid, Spain, which proved to be an account
of the voyage of Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo,
a Portuguese navigator in the service of
Spain.
	“The caravels of Cabrillo La Victoria and
San Salvador, discovered the islands in
September, 1542; and as they cruised in
the vicinity for several months there is
every reason to believe that the quaint ves-
sels found shelter in the harbor of Avalon
and the land-locked bay of Catalina on the
south coast, and that the explorers held
communication with the natives who at
that time had towns or villages in the
mouth of almost every cañon of the island.
	Cabrillo named the islands of San
Clemente after his ships, and probably
landed at Avalon where it is known was a
large and populous Indian village on the
site of Hotel Metropole.
	“Sixty years later Philip III. of Spain
ordered the viceroy of New Spain, Gaspar
Yuñiga, Conde de Monterey, to equip an
expedition, which sailed from Acapullo
under the command of Sebastian Vizcaino,
May 5, 1602. About the first of December
the caravels came to anchor in the harbor
of Avalon and Vizcaino called the island
Santa Catalina. He describes the natives
as a fine looking race dressed in well cured
skins, the town as having large dwellings
and numerous rancherios, their canoes were
large, the men were expert fishermen.
They showed Vizcaino some damask cloth
which they said came from a wreck, sup-
posed to be that of the ship San Augustin
which sailed in 1595 under Captain Sebas-
tian Rodriguez Cermeñon, to make dis-
coveries on the California coast and was
never heard from.
	“When Cabrillo discovered Southern
California it had a large population; today
352 years later this is represented by a
pitiful handful of natives who are scat-
tered about the foothills or the missions;
by graveyards despoiled and by the quaint
stone implements plowed up by the modern
ranchers.”
	We went out in the glass-bottomed boat,
the waters are so clear that objects at a
depth of fifty or more feet can be seen dis-
tinctly. You gaze down into the depths
and most wonderful are the sights. Among
the moving beds of kelp with long green
and bronze fronds reaching upward, float-
ing with the tide were the gold fish, the
man would call our attention to the differ-
ent fish and tell us where to look. See that
delicate green-hued kelp fish, then a black
ray, there an eel, sea serpent, an octopus,
sea snails, starfishes, sea urchins and a tiny
blue fish, and in the shallow waters the
rocks were covered with sea-anemone, and
there were most beautiful shells—altogether
a beautiful and fairy like spectacle.
	We had the drive, or island coach ride in
which the six in hand takes the rider up

[Column 3]
the mountains and over the summits to Lit-
tle Harbor. The coach road winds up the
hill to the south to a height of 1600 feet,
every turn brings new bits of coast into
view, with headlands, mountains and hills
and the blue waters until the summit is
reached, where the view is most beautiful
of San Clemente, Santa Barbara Island, San
Nicolas, the lofty range of the Sierra Madre,
all forming a beautiful panorama. I
bought a curiosity, the Serebratula, ob-
tained by deep sea soundings, and is the
shell the Romans took their idea of the Ro-
man lamp from. It is rare and very old.
	I began this letter then laid it aside.
Have written it at intervals and a portion
blew away. I will send what is left of it
with best wishes.
			HELEN V. KIMBALL.


AN EMINENT VISITOR.
	Miss Sarah E. Hunt of Boston, first vice-
president of the Daughters of the Revolu-
tion general society, and regent of the
Massachusetts State society, visited our city
during the Mothers’ Congress. Miss Hunt
is a leading woman and Mrs. Wells was
fortunate in arranging a meeting between
her and the Wasatch chapter of the D. R.
	The “Exponent” office was beautifully
decorated with roses. Miss Hunt talked in
a simple, charming manner, enthusing her
interested listeners. Miss Hunt said:
“The North and the South in the Revolu-
tion went to war together and fought for
one common cause side by side, and we are
their children. Between the North and the
South, the East and the West there is that
bond that cannot be broken, this is the
grandest part of our work. The D. R. has
a large field. Just now there is a chance to
show what we can do in instilling patriot-
ism. The Massachusetts State society is
very successful, we have a large member-
ship. Our best work is in repairing and
preserving the Paul Revere, Bunker Hill
and others, but we feel that our greatest
strength is in our State society.
	“Do not feel disappointed, Mrs. Wells,
if mothers feel that they are so busy that
they cannot attend to joining, keep a brave
heart and never give up even a poor ground.
We desire Mrs. Wells to be State Regent
of your society. Be Democratic so that all
eligible persons may come in. If there are
any daughters of men who fought in the
Revolution find them and admit them free
of fees into the D. R. The General Soci-
ety will present them with a gold badge.
We want to especially honor them.
	“Our Massachsuttes State society found
an old lady aged 104, who was the daughter
of a soldier of the Revolution and we took
great pride in presenting her with a gold
badge.
	If any of you ladies come to New York
be sure you call at our headquarters.
Thursdays we have tea. ” MissHunt has a
charming presence and won the hearts of
the members of the Wasatch chapter.
	After the goodbyes were said Mrs. Wells
asked “How many of the roses will you
take with you?” and the reply came, “As
many as you will give me, and as many as
my hands can hold.” Then with the
pleasant and good wishes for a delightful
trip through the Yellowstone whither she
is going, Miss Hunt carried away a great
bunch of the lovely roses.
A. M. H.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY AUGUST 1, 1898.


MAINE MARTYR MEMORIAL DAY.

To the Presidents of Stakes and the
Bishops of the Church:
	Dear Brethren:—In view of the fact that 
the management of the Maine Monument
Fund has disclaimed any intentional slight
on the part of the national committee to-
wards the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints by omiting on the 8th day of
May, to call upon the Church to join the
other churches in the land in holding
memorial services on the 8th day of May,
in honor of the brave men who lost their
lives in the Maine disaster; and now ask us
through its management to appoint a suit-
able day on which the members of the
Church may hold Memorial services and
take up collections for the Maine Monument
Fund, we have decided to designate Sun-
day, the 24th of July, as the day on which
such services shall be held.
	It is our desire that the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints should be iden-
tified with all such patriotic movements as
the erection of this monument to the
nation’s honored dead, that all our fellow
citizens may know that our sympathies
both in its joys and in its sorrows, are with
our country. We therefore ask the Presi-
dents of Stakes and the Bishops of wards
throughout the Church to make the neces-
sary arrangements for holding special
Memorial services at the time designated,
and at the conclusion thereof to take up a
collection from the people to assist in the
erection of a monument to the Maine mar-
tyrs.
	All money collected should be promptly
forwarded by the Bishops to Elders Heber
J. Grant and B. H. Roberts, who have
been appointed a committee to take charge
of this business. Address them at 20—26
south, East Temple street, Salt Lake City,
Utah. Your Brethren,
WILFORD WOODRUFF,
GEORGE Q. CANNON.
JOSEPH F. SMITH.


Mrs. L. M. Stansbury of Colorado who is
pleasantly remembered in Utah and known
to Western readers by her pen name, Ellis
Meredith, has won the fifth prize in the
$4,000 prize story competition conducted
by the Short Story Publishing Company,
publishers of the Black Cat magazine.
Thousands of manuscripts were received
from every quarter of the globe.


SPECIAL NOTICE N. W. R. S.

	The Summer Conference of the Nation-
al Woman’s Relief Society which was
postponed from June until August, will
not be held this season on account of ex-
isting circumstances that were not antici-
pated at the time the appointment was
made at the April conference last spring.
The General conference of the Society
will be held as usual in October, of which
due notice will be given.

ZINA D. H. YOUNG, General President.
E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.


SAD AND SORROWFUL.

Ah, the sweet young rose of hope is dead—
	'Twill never bloom again
And the tears I shed for the beautiful dead,
	They fall like the desolate rain.

	The sorrow that has fallen so heavily up-
on Brother and Sister Gates of Provo through
the terrible accident on the evening of
July 21, fills all hearts with grief, who know
the family. One stands overwhelmed in
such an hour, and it is only by seeking the
Lord one can find consolation at all, He
has promised and His word cannot fail of
fulfillment:

	“When thro’ fiery trials thy pathway shall lie,
	My grace all sufficient shall  e thy supply.
	The flames shall not hurt thee I only design
	Thy dross to consume and thy gold to refine.”

	Little Beulah Gates, seven years of age,
was a child of promise and of faith in
God, exemplified in the last hour by her
kneeling to pray after (though she knew
it not) she was past all human aid. What
a tribute to her mother was this child’s
dying prayer! and may the beautiful les-
son be impressed upon the parents far and
wide; “teach the children to pray.”
	The funeral services were excellent, we
are told, and great consolation was offered
to the bereaved parents. We know
“God moves in a mysterious way,” and
we must acknowledge His hand in all
things however hard the lesson may be

	And if the ordeal seems cruel
		The father will make it right
	And the brighter thy precious jewel
		Will shine in t e realms of light.


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S WORK IN WAR.

	Nowadays one has daily the war and the
news pertaining thereto with all its varia-
tions of battles fought and unfought on sea
and on land. To publish a paper that con-
tained no war news at all would be an ex-
ception to the general rule, for we have
war news the first thing in the morning
and the last thing at night, and one dreams
of the war waking or sleeping; and yet to
give anything like a summary of reliable
war dispatches in a little paper only pub-
lished at intervals of two weeks or more is
out of the question.
	The news which makes one fear and
tremble at present is the sickness prevailing
in those hot climates where our soldiers are,
and if the people ever need to exercise
mighty faith it is in view of the fevers pre-
valent in the camps of the soldiers in hot
weather. When one reads that Gen. Shafter
reports 3,770 cases in the army in Cuba,
which it is said gives the war department

[Column 2]
concern, how is it with the mothers, wives
and sisters as well as sweethearts of the
men and boys who have gone forth in the
full strength and glory of their physical
health to fight for their country? It is in-
deed a serious matter and when women feel
they can only watch and pray at home how
difficult it is to be reconciled. Tennyson
says:

			‘More things are wrought by prayer,
Than this world dreams of. Wherefore let thy
	voice
Rise like a fountain for them night and day.”

Joanna Bailey:
					“A goodman’s prayers
Will from the deepest dungeon climb heaven’s
	height
And bring a blessing down”

Young in his “Night Thoughts:”

“Prayer ardent opens heaven, lets down a stream
Of glory on the consecrated hour
Of man in audience with the Deity,”

	Coleridge in the Ancient Mariner: “He
prayeth best who loveth best.” And wo-
man it is conceded, loves most and truest
her dear ones therefore should never cease
to pray, God grant us grace to do our part
as women if it be only in prayer, and let us
also pray for peace.
	But there is work to be done for the sick
and distressed and all who can should lend
a helping hand to the Red Cross and War
Relief Association in some of the various
methods and ways in which actual help is
being given to those who have not the op-
portunity of doing or getting necessary
things for their own comfort and relief or to
prevent pain or suffering.
	It is difficult to understand how women
can sit idly by and not endeavor to aid in
some way those who at this particular time
need positive help, and so as well as to
watch and pray, there is also work; and to
be at work is sometimes a panacea for pain
of mind or heart. Those who want to
give and have not the means, some of them
at least can give time and thought and by
the needle and in various other ways assist
in the Red Cross or Relief work. A few
women are giving of their time, their
means, their hearts to this noble work for
those deprived of home and friends and
the things they are now needing and to
which they have been accustomed when in
the home circle. The widow’s mite is just
as acceptable now as when our Savior was
upon the earth, and the beautiful saying
holds good everywhere and at all times,
and so one should not hesitate to give a lit-
tle.
	The overtures from Spanish government-
al powers are somewhat encouraging in
favor of an armistice but not altogether ac-
ceptable, the taking of Manila, the victory
of Santiago, Dewey’s wonderful achieve-
ments, and all the advantages so far known
do not give us peace and there is great un-
certainty as to the future, and the sorrows
and cruelties and barbarisms of war make
one shudder at the very thought, and to be
in the midst of such scenes is more than
terrible.
	We had hoped to give here an account of
Red Cross work in the State but could not
get an entire report nor an approximate, we
know, however, that it has been very credit-
able and will give the figures and particu-
lars later.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PIONEER PARK.

	On Monday, July 25, fifty-one years after
the arrival of the Pioneers in the valley of
the Great Salt Lake, the square on which
the first human habitations were built in
this desert land (now a flourishing state)
was publically dedicated with appropriate
and impressive ceremonies, conducted un-
der the auspices of the Mayor and the City
Council. President Wilford Woodruff, the
veteran pioneer now ninety-one years of
age, was seated upon the platform, also
President George Q. Cannon, who came in-
to the valley a few months later, and a few
members of the old City Council of long
ago and other citizens, also a few promin-
ent women, among the number being Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Jane B. Taylor,
Mrs. Maria L. Nebeker; the two last named
came in 1847. The patriotic music was
inspiring, the singing excellent, opening
prayer by Dr. T. C. Iliff and address by
Mayor Clark both particularly well adapt-
ed to the occasion, the Mayor rehearsing
the most notable events. Our revered
President made the speech of the day, heart-
felt and replete with memories of the time
alluded to.
		ADDRESS OF PRESIDENT WOODRUFF.

	President Woodruff was then presented to the audience by Mayor Clark and was
received with the warmest demonstration
of applause. The venerable Pioneer and
leader said in substance:
	It was fifty-one years ago yesterday a
little before 11 o’clock a. m., that he drove
President Young in his carriage on to the
spot near where the Knutsford hotel stands.
On his arrival in the valley, the speaker
had, he said, one bushel and a half of pota-
toes in his possession. He had covenanted
with the Lord that he would neither eat
nor drink until they were planted, and he
kept his promise. Others of the Pioneers
also had potatoes with them. They, too,
promptly attended to the work of planting.
And they were planted in the earth, not in
the moon, (dark or light) as Brother Orson Pratt objected to that. (Laughter.)
	There was a man in Nauvoo who built a
carriage to suit his own fancy. It had a
bed eleven feet long and was entered by
means of steps and door. This vehicle the
speaker bought and brought to this valley.
On the Monday morning immediately after
the arrival of the first Pioneers President
Young took some of the Twelve Apostles
and with them walked on a short distance
in a northwesterly direction; a halt was sud-
denly made and President Young striking
his cane upon the ground, exclaimed,
"Brethren, here will be the Temple of our
God.” "I didn’t ask him,” continued
President Woodruff, “who told him the
Temple would be there. I didn’t care. I
put a stake there and the Temple is there,
a monument to President Young’s foresight
and prophetic accuracy.”
	After passing over the ground which is
now Pioneer square the party entered
wagons and started for the point of the
mountain, which appeared to be about five
miles to the westward. The distance, how- 
ever, was much greater, being about fifteen
miles. They continued on to Black Rock 
where President Young plunged in the brine
and took a bath, being the first Mormon to
lave in its waters. He was followed by
other members of the party among whom
was a colored man. When the latter em-

[Column 2]
erged from the waves the salt brine dried
upon his skin and instead of being a black
man he was perfectly white. (Laughter.)
This transformation, Porter Rockwell de-
clared to be the first miracle performed in
the valley. (Renewed merriment.) But
when he washed himself in fresh water the
salt disappeared and once more the white
man was black. (Laughter and applause.)
	On reaching here the Pioneers were im-
portuned to continue their journey to Cali-
fornia, where it was believed their condi-
tion would be bettered. President Young
said he knew he was in the midst of a des-
ert with his people, but that would make
no difference. They would build a temple,
a city and a commonwealth here. When
the first message flashed across the new
electric means of communication the words
were, “What has God wrought?” and so
regarding the declaration of President
Young the speaker felt constrained to say,
‘‘What has God wrought?” in these
mountain vales that are now cities and
towns bedecked with temples of worship,
school houses, colleges and the various
conditions of an advanced civilization.
	Here President Woodruff paused briefly
and then said: "Wondrous changes have
come to this land and people since the arri-
val of the Pioneers, and I want to say that
the changes, progress and increase will be
just as great during the next fifty-one years
as during a similar period that has just
closed. The destiny of this people is be-
fore heaven and earth and nothing can stay
it."
	President Woodruff said he would speak
of one incident and only one connected
with the journey of the Pioneers hither. It
was suggested to him by the presence on
the stand of W. C. A. Smoot who was the
youngest teamster in the advance guard. It
occurred near the Platte river. One day
the little band of home and liberty seekers
were startled by seeing to the west directly
ahead of them, what appeared to be a great
black cloud close to the earth. To their
amazement they discovered on approaching
nearer that it was not a cloud, but a solid,
mighty, moving body of buffalo, probably
the greatest herd that had ever assembled
in the western world. There was great
danger of being crushed to death by the
mighty horde. What to do was a problem.
But after consultation a wedgelike column
was thrown out and an opening effected in
the herd. Among this animated mass of
the monarchs of the mountains and plains
they struggled on for their own personal
salvation for three days and nights. At one
time Brother Smoot lost a horse which
got mixed up with the buffalo which were
traveling not in a scattered condition but
just as close as animals could crowd togeth-
er. For a time it seemed as though the
loss would be permanent, but after a while
the horse was recovered.
	"It always was,” said President Wood-
ruff, in his closing reference to the incident,
“a mystery to me why that great body of
buffalo should have gathered together and
marched from its roaming place on the
slopes of the Rocky Mountains and moved
down on to the Platte. It never occurred
before; it never occurred since, and will
never occur again.”
	As a finale to his address President
Woodruff said he felt that it was his duty
to give President Brigham Young the
credit of having laid the foundation of this
city and state. The streets of Salt Lake

[Column 3]
City, for instance, were the widest and 
most beautiful of any city on the earth. In
the historic city of Jerusalem two loaded
camels found it difficult to pass each other.
In this city thirty of these caravans of the
desert could do so. President Young be-
lieved in fulfilling the commandments of
God. He believed in doing things well.
That was a characteristic of the Pioneers,
no matter what it cost. For instance, a
mountain was moved at a cost of a half
a million dollars for a foundation for the
Manti Temple.

	Congressman Wm. H. King spoke, after a
quartette "When the swallows homeward
fly.” The speaker believed somewhat in
hero-worship and added "All Hail to such
men as Brigham Young, Wilford Woodruff,
Orson Pratt, Erastus Snow and George Q.
Cannon for what they have wrought;” and
he closed his eloquent tribute to the Pion-
eers with the expression: "Today all hon-
or and adoration should be given to Wilford
Woodruff, the Pioneer of pioneers.” Judge
C. C. Goodwin spoke last and was, as usual,
very humorous.
	President George Q. Cannon offered the
dedicatory prayer which was in that happy
spirit which goes to the hearts of the audi-
ence. This was followed by three cheers
for the Pioneers and also three cheers for
the Mayor and City Council who had been
instrumental in having this spot of conse-
crated ground set apart for the benefit of
the people.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Saturday evening, July 9, we had a
pleasant evening with Mrs. Hatch of Dallas,
Texas, and her brother and sister, Mr. and
Miss Buck, of Laporte, Indiana. The
young ladies are accomplished musicians.
Miss Buck not only sings and plays but
composes music.. Vacation Warbles and
other pieces of her own composition were
admirably rendered on the piano from
memory, and she sang by request, Sweet-
heart, Last Night, and The Sweetest Story
Ever Told. The young lady is also an
artist and excels in figure painting. The
other sister is quite gifted also and both are
very interesting.

	Mrs. J. E. Bamberger gave a fine lunch-
eon to a few ladies (about fifteen) on July
15,at her handsome residence in this city. As
we could not be present to see we are not
quite able to give the details, but have been
nformed it was a very pleasant party.
Among the guests were Mrs. Kate Tannatt
Woods of Boston, a distinguished visitor to
the city; Mrs. Amelia F. Young, Mrs. Sol.
Seigel, Mrs. Henry Seigel, Mrs. Simon
Bamberger, Mrs. Hanueuer, Mrs. W. P
Lynn, Mrs. C. E. Allen, Mrs. John Q.
Cannon and others. And certainly we
know Mrs. Bamberger to be a most genial
and entertaining hostess.
	We had the great pleasure of having
Mrs. Kate Tannatt Woods of Boston, at
our house for a few hours on Monday,
July 18, and also Mrs. W. P. Lynn of this
city, besides members of our own family
whom we wished should meet Mrs. Woods,
who is certainly one of the most interesting
conversationalists we have ever met, and as
she has traveled extensively and has known
so many celebrities, and besides has lived
in a most historic part of New England
near Salem, Danvers, Cambridge, Andover,


Amesbury, Haverhill and other notable
places in close proximity, how could she
help being a celebrity herself, if she par-
took of her surroundings. Sometime we
shall tell our readers more about this intel-
lectual woman, who every year writes a
book for children.
	Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, of Washing-
ton, D. C., paid a brief visit to our city, ar-
riving on the 25th of July; we had met her
at the National Council in Washington in
1895, and she brought a letter of introduc-
tion to President George Q. Cannon. Mrs.
Barrett is National Superintendent of the
Florence Crittenden Homes, and is deeply
interested in the work; she is a very fasci-
nating woman in conversation, decidedly
clever and brilliant, has traveled extensive-
ly and knows many celebrities in our own
and foreign lands; has visited Japan, the
Holy Land and even Africa as well as near-
ly all the European countries, including
Spain; has been presented at four European
courts. We had an exceedingly interest-
ing visit with her during her short sojourn
and regretted very much she could not re-
main in the city longer.
	On Thursday July 7, we had the pleasure
of a short visit and chat at our home with
Mrs. Mary S. Gist of Washington, D. C.,
whom we have known through the N. W.
P. A. for some years. She is in many re-
spects a remarkable woman, has been fore-
most in good works at the headquarters
where many enterprises are originated, and
has known much of public affairs in the
capital of the United States, is a newspaper
correspondent and engaged in many chari-
table societies. She was a delegate from the
National Press Association to the Biennial
at Denver, came on here and spoke at the
Mothers’ Congress and was greatly delight-
ed with what she saw and heard while in
our city. It is gratifying to have intellect-
ual people come among us who are free
from prejudice and can see the right side of
things. 
	On Friday, May 15, we had the pleasure
of attending the Relief Society conference
of Utah Stake held in Provo, accompanied
by Mrs. Sarah J. Cannon. The president,
Mrs. Mary John, and her counselors, Mrs.
Marilla M. Daniels and Mrs. Deborah Bil-
lings, were on the stand also Mrs. Carol B.
Pratt, the very efficient secretary. The
minutes of the previous conference held at
Pleasant Grove were excellent. A com-
mittee of ladies had prepared an elaborate
lunch in the basement of the old tabernacle
and a hundred or more women partook of
the bounteous repast waited upon by sweet
young maidens, the affair was very enjoy-
able. President David John was present
in the afternoon and made a few remarks,
encouraging the Society in its good work.
Representatives were present from most of
the settlements in the county and gave
good reports.
	The Maine Memorial services in the
Tabernacle in this city, Sunday July 24,
were very impressive. The music by the
choir of hundreds of voices and the prayer
offered by President Angus M. Cannon
were in keeping with the spirit of the occa-
sion recognized. The speakers, Senator
Frank J. Cannon and Representative Wm.
H. King, were both familiar with the sub-
ject of the destruction of the ill-fated Maine
and of the condition of Cuba and with
Spanish cruelty, and their remarks were
fitting and eloquently earnest. The music
of the great organ lent significance to the
ceremonies and had it not been the Sabbath
and in a sacred place of worship, no doubt
the speakers and singers would have been
greeted with tremendous applause. Presi-
dent George Q Cannon offered the benedic-
tion which was a fitting tribute to the mem-
ory of the martyrs of the Maine. An orig-
nal poem entitled “Columbia” was given
by the author himself in a very pleasing
manner, and a collection was taken to as-
sist in erecting a suitable monument to the
memory of the martyrs who found an un-
timely grave in the briny deep, which was
a decidedly new departure from the estab-
lished custom of the Latter-day Saints who
do not solicit means from a congregation.
As there was a large congregation it is
hoped that a considerably large sum was
raised here and if also elsewhere in the State
Utah will have contributed a good share to
this laudable enterprise.
	The Primary Associations of Salt Lake
Stake under the auspices of the officers of
the Stake board and committee had an ex-
cursion to Saltair on Tuesday July 19, which 
was a very pleasant affair. Presidents Wil-
ford Woodruff and George Q. Cannon and
wife, also Counselors Jos. E. Taylor and
wife and C. W. Penrose and wife, Prof.
Karl G. Maeser and wife and some others
were guests of the party. The committee
had decorated the table beautifully and the
repast was daintily arranged and partaken
with a relish such as the salt air gives.
After lunch there were a few exercises by
the children and remarks suited to the time
and place were made by Presidents Wood-
ruff and Cannon. The children acquitted
themselves well, the flag drill, the dancing
by two wee small ones, the Highland fling
and the recitation by little Miss Penrose
Jones were all good. The singing of the
children under the direction of Brother
Bassett was good and patriotic. America
and The Star Spangled Banner always
thrills an audience and more especially in a
time like the present when the people are
already enthused. Much credit is due
those who had the training of the little ones
and to all who in any way contributed to
make the affair so pleasant and successful.
Success to the Primary and those who are
laboring in its interest, seeking to train the
children of this people in the paths of vir-
tue, truth and honesty.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OFFICERS MEETING,
	The officers’ meeting of the general con-
ference was held in the Assembly hall in
this city April 9, 1898, President Zina D.
H. Young presiding. Meeting opened
with singing “O, my Father.” Prayer
was offered by Dr. R. B. Pratt. Singing
“We thank Thee O, God for a prophet.”
	The president said, “We are all happy
and gratified to be able to meet together to
see each others faces, and especially are we
glad to see those from a distance whom we
seldom see, and I thank my Heavenly
Father that we enjoy so many blessings.
I would like to hear from Sister Rhoda
Hinman from Canada.”
	Sister Hinman said, “We have the Holy
Spirit with us. I remember when the Re-
lief Society was first organized; this work is
increasing from North to South and from
East to West.” Sister Hinman made
other interesting remarks.

[Column 2]
	Bannock Stake was reported by Sister
Susan Watts Burton, Bingham by the
president, Emma J. Bennett, who said that
in traveling through the Stake although
they traveled always by team no accident
had ever happened except last summer
when they had a runaway and six or seven
of them were bruised but that was all, felt
they had been preserved by an over-ruling
power. President Emily G. Cluff gave an
excellent account of the Hawiian sisters,
their industry, energy, and faithfulness.
	Counselor Kate L. Paxman of Juab Stake
spoke of the nice comfortable houses they
had in Nephi, and when they met in their
halls it seemed to her they were as sacred
as a temple, and said what excellent times
they had together among the sisters, and
also what support the presiding brethren in
the Stake gave them and how united they
were. 
	President Lydia Rich of Morgan Stake,
in representing said, “We have good sisters
and we have faith, it has been very effect-
ive in cases of sickness, angels are with us
and we feel their influence. We had diph-
theria in Morgan and we fasted and prayed
and the destroyer’s influence was stayed,
not another case broke out, the blessing of
the Lord has attended us all the day long.
	President Melissa Murdock of Charleston
Relief Society, spoke for Wasatch Stake,
referred to the death of Stake President
Emma Brown and stated that it was ex-
pected that another president would be ap-
pointed soon, thought all was going on
very well with the sisters in the Stake.
	President Jane S. Richards said in Weber
Stake the sisters were trying to do well,
to live peacably and love one another, they
had a good time at a late conference in the
ward where she lived and they bad many
good meetings and blessings, she enjoyed
working for the needy and considered the
labors and duties of the Society were spirit-
ual help, made many encouraging remarks
and felt we were greatly blessed of the
Lord.
	Counselor Annie E. Webster of Parowan
Stake, realized the greatness of the work
and that it was necessary we should be ex-
emplary in our labors and try to impress it
upon the mothers to teach correct princi-
ples in the home, to reckon with themselves
when night comes, go over the
events of the day, referred to her own child-
hood and early training.
	President Zina Young spoke on the silk
industry, told the sisters not to leave a
stone unturned in the silk business, set out
the cuttings of the mulberry trees, this
would help the children of the future; there
was no country in the world better adapted
to silk raising than this, sericulture would
give the women and children something to
do, it is an industry we can excel in and
give a great many employment, if we seek
good gifts they will be given to us, the gift
of wisdom if we pray for it. Sister Rhoda
Hinman’s mother, Mother Chase was set
apart by the Prophet Joseph to administer
to the sick and was one of the first in this
dispensation to attend to this ordinance; our
sisters should carry home from this confer-
ence the good word like a laurel or a sheaf
of grain to bless others with the teachings;
we must love each other and bless each
other also, we have a great mission, let us
have the spirit of kindness. “I was glad to
hear from those who are buildings houses,
we need houses of our own, we ought to
have a three days conference so that all


could speak and then we might be greatly 
benefited."
	President Sarah M. Kimball felt very 
much pleased to be present and to listen to
the teachings and to learn of the three
days' meetings, felt like Sister Zina about
having a house of our own, knew the sis-
ters had means. She had a different exper-
ience from some and her work had been dif-
ferent, but she believed she had a key to 
success in a measure and she would like to
give this key to the sisters in the Society,
it was the law of tithing; referred to a time
when a call was made, and she thought
how could she pay tithing, but the way
was opened and it was very peculiar; felt 
if one made a personal sacrifice the Lord
would bless one, and added that her exper-
ience had been pay your tithes and offerings
and the Lord will bless you. Sister Kimball
spoke of her acquaintance with the Prophet
Joseph in early days and said many excel-
lent things.
	President B. W. Smith urged the young-
er women as well as the older to join the
Relief Society said we should yet become
great and spread out in the land, prayed the
Lord to bless each and every one assembled,
talked of the days of Joseph the Prophet
and the good things he had said concerning
the Society, wanted us all to strive to do
good, to bless the sick, and comfort them,
say our prayers and live right and we
would be satisfied.
	A few closing remarks were made by the
president of love and blessing to all, the
congregation joined in singing "Praise God 
from whom all blessings flow," and confer-
ence was adjourned for six months. Prayer
was offered in the gift of tongues by Presi-
dent M. I. Horne, interpreted by Sister
Zina and Dr. E. S. Barney.
				E. B. WELLS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

ELEN DAVIES HUGHES.
	Elen Davies Hughes, wife of F. D. Hughes,
was born in South Wales December 10, 1841, and
died in Salt Lake City May 22, 1898 She em-
braced the Gospel i[-] her youth, belonged to the
Swansea branch and was noted for her integrity
and her faithful attendance to her meetings, was
strict in paying her tithing and always contributed
of her scanty means to every call made upon the
branch of which she was a member. She emi-
grated to Utah over thirty y[-]ars ago and has re-
sided in the 11th ward ever since. Her record
in that ward as a faithful Saint, wife and mother
were e[-]aborated upon by the brethren in their
inspired remarks at the funeral obsequies. In
short, she accepted every principle the Lord re-
vealed, inspired her children with faith in God
and passed away full of faith. It is a great con-
solation to her children (five of whom a[-]e living)
to look back upon her past life, and I trust they
will follow in her footsteps. She way va[-]iant in
testimony, patient and humble in a[-]l [-]rials and
tribulations. She has fought the good fight, she
has kept the faith and wi[-]l come forth in the
morning of the resurrection clothed with glory
and eternal life.
						H. D. HUGHES.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has s[-]en fit in
His wisdom to allow our worthy and esteemed
sister, Agnes A. McDonald, president of the Re-
lief Society of Colonia Garcia Mexico, to be
ruthlessly murdered by the hands of foul assassins
for reason unknown to us, be it
	Resolved, That we the members of the Garcia
Relief Society extend our sympathy to the be-
reaved husband and children in this their sad
hour of trial. 
	Resolved, That the willing and faithful aid that
she exercised in our Relief Society by service,
contribution and counsel will be held in grateful
remembrance.
	Resolved, That her removal will leave a shadow


that will be deeply realized by the members of
this organization. 
	Resolved that we strive to carry out her wise 
counsel, follow her noble example and cherish in 
our hearts that love for her which she so truly 
won. 
	Resolved that we express our hope that even 
so great a loss to us all may be over-ruled for 
good y Him who doeth a[-]l things well. 
	Resolved that one copy of t e e resolutions be 
sent to the bereaved husband, one be placed on 
the Society record and one be sent to the “Ex-
ponent” for publication.
BARBARA WHETTEN,
WEALTHY SHEFFER,
Committee. 

		JANET WATSON MORRIS. 
	Sister Janet Wa son Morris was born in Ren-
frewshire, Scotland, July 28, 1842. S e moved 
with her parents when a child to Glasgow, where 
in 1864 she embraced the Gospel through oppo-
sition on the part of her family. In 1866 she left 
her home and her native land and emigrated to 
Utah, coming by ox team, and endured the dis- 
comforture of the journey with her characteristic 
cheerfulness and willingness to embrace all the 
principles the Lord revealed. 
	She was married to Robert Morris, now Bis op 
of the 11th ward, on December 21, 1867. She was 
the mother of six children, two sons and four 
daughters, her two sons having preceded her to 
the spirit world. 
	A few years ago she visited her native land 
where she succeeded in allaying much prejudice 
concerning Mormonism  She was a first and 
wise counselor in the 11 h ward Relief Society, 
which position she was appointed to fil on the 
7th of June, 1894. She was afflicted for years 
with rheumatism but bore her suffering cheerfully 
She bore a strong testimony to the truth of the 
work of God and was ever ready to do her duty
and to stand up for the principles of right. She 
has e rned the crown th t is awaiting her and wi l
come forth in the morning of the first resurrec-
tion. A large concourse followed her remains to 
the cemetery, the Relief Society going in the
“Utah.” May we all meet her again on the other 
side.
				LIZZIE LEEKER, Sec R. S.


RELIEF SOCIETY BRANCHES.

		NEW ORGANIZATIONS.
	A letter recently received from Bingham
July 15, 1898, states that a Relief Society
was organized at that place with Sister
Martha E. Thompson, president; Sisters
Eliza J. McNeil and Mary Hairt, counselors;
Sister Harriet S Jones, secretary. The sis-
ters were set apart on April 24, 1898. 
						H. S. JONES.

		SAN DIEGO, CAL.
	The San Deigo branch of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints having
increased to such a goodly number Presi-
dent E. H. Nye of the California mission
and Conference President G. F. Harding
effected a Ladies Relief Society, May, 11,
1898.
	The following officers were set apart un-
der the hands of the above named presi
dents and Elders F. B. Platt, J. A. Love-
less and W. E. Stoker, traveling Elders in
San Diego City: Sister Amelia Jewell, 
president; Sister Mary N. Gabrielson, first
counselor; Sister Ida E. Hunt, second coun-
selor; Sister Louisa Edwards, secretary;
Sister Anna Buhorn, treasurer; Sisters
Louisa Swanson and Adelia C. Kingsbury,
teachers.
	Three meetings have been held during
the month, each meeting was well attend-
ed and the Spirit of God was enjoyed. The
work is being carried on very successfully.
The prospects for the future are bright for
accomplishing a good work.
	LOUISA EDWARDS, Sec.


R. S. REPORTS 
		MARICOPA STAKE. 
	Report of Relief Society Stake conference 
held June 16, 1898. The sisters compris-
ing the Maricopa Stake Relief Society held 
their quarterly conference in the Society 
hall with First Counselor Francelle E. Rob-
son presiding. President Mabel A. Hakes
was with us but was in very feeble health, 
also Counselor Sarah N. Johnson who was 
very poorly in health, also Stake President 
C. R. Hakes and Counselor Henry C. 
Rogers and other leading sisters 
	Meeting was opened with the usual ex-
ercises. All the wars were represented in 
good condition generally, showing a good
spirit among the sisters. The topics dwelt on 
were for our general good, storing grain 
now that we are just reaping a bounteous 
harvest, leading exemplary lives, and many 
testimonies were borne by the sisters. Two 
Lamanite sisters bore strong testimonies to 
the truth of the Gospel, which was very in-
teresting to all. These sisters, of whom 
there are quite a number, were very sincere, 
they felt glad to have their names in rec- 
ord, as they saw the secretary taking notes 
of what was said. They speak through an 
interpreter. President Hakes and Counsel-
or Rogers exhorted the sisters to come out 
to meeting oftener, also spoke of the duties 
of the Relief Society, said we should first 
seek the Kingdom of God and all things 
will be added. All felt that we had had a 
good time together. 
	Meeting adjourned for three months. 
Benediction by H. C. Rogers. 
	ANNA E. FULLER, Sec. 

		SANPETE STAKE. 
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference 
of the Sanpete Stake of Zion held at Mt. 
Pleasant, June 10, 1898, President M. A. 
Hyde presiding. Singing “Redeemer of
Israel.” Prayer by Sister Neilsen. Sing-
ing "Come, come ye Saints.
	Opening remarks were made by Presi-
dent Hyde. She spoke of a meeting she 
had attended in Salt Lake City and de- 
livered a kindly message of love from Aunt 
Zina. Referred to the progress of the 
work as reported by the missionaries. 
Minutes of the previous conference were 
read and approved. Verbal reports were 
given by representatives from the following 
wards: Spring City, Ephraim north and 
south wards, Manti north and south wards 
Mt. Pleasant, Chester, Centerfield, Fayette; 
Milburn, Indianola. Moroni, Gunnison
Freedom and Mayfield represented by let-
ter, all represented except Sterling and
Wales.
	President M. A. Hyde related a case of 
healing by faith which had recently come 
under her observation, also spoke on the 
word of wisdom. Singing “Earth with
her ten thousand flowers.” Benediction
by Elder Moroni Jensen. 
	Afternoon session:—Singing “How firm
a foundation.” Prayer by Elder Edward 
Cliff. Singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.”
	President Hyde deplored the fact that the 
gifts of the Gospel were not more exer- 
cised. Said that Elders had come to the 
Relief Society meeting in order to hear the 
gift of tongues and the interpretation there-
of, in order that they might testify to these 
things to an unbelieving world when called 
on missions. Exhorted the sisters to be


diligent in watching over their sons as
well as their daughters.
	President M. F. C. Morrison of Mt.
Pleasant was much interested in the wel-
fare of the young people, told the mothers
to gather the children together and instruct
them and find out what company they keep.
	Stake Counselor Abigail Shoemaker
hoped the sisters were striving to live their
religion. Thought both old and young
should take an interest in the meetings.
	Stake Counselor A. L. Cox was pleased
to hear the good reports from the various
branches of the Society and also at the
good spirit which had prevailed during the
conference. Made reference to the present
war with Spain and the judgment which
would eventually be poured out on that
nation in consequence of centuries of in-
tolerance and oppression. Said we should
be a progressive people, and should seek
for the spirit of discernment that we might
be able to understand the signs of the times,
also referred to the storing of wheat, said it
was a sacred trust to the sisters and that it
should not be used for any other purpose
than that for which it was gathered, that is
for a day of famine.
	Sister Peel told how much she appreciat-
ed the blessings of the Lord to His people
during the time of poverty and trial.
	Brother Cliff had rejoiced and been built
up while listening to the remarks of the
sisters. He spoke of the war and said that
all of our boys who responded to their
country’s call and who enlist with the
right spirit would be preserved as were the
sons of Helaman.
	President Acord of the Stake Primary
desired to have the parents take an inter-
est in the children and visit their meetings.
Said they should not think it was of little
importance.
	Singing “O, say what is truth.” Bene-
diction by Brother Hafeau. Conference
adjourned for three months.
	Since the conference the Stake counselors
have visited all the branches in the
Stake and found them all in good condition
and alive to their duties.
	A.L. COX, Act. Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.

	The bill raising the age of protection for 
girls in the District of Columbia to eighteen 
passed the U. S. House of Representatives 
before adjournment. 
	Until the remonstrants produce a second 
Clara Barton, it will remain true that the 
most effective type of patriotism has come 
from the ranks of the suffragists. 
	On “Club Woman’s Day,” at the Trans-
Mississippi Exposition, Mrs. Kate Tannatt 
Woods of Salem, read a paper on “Club
Courtesies,” and Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson 
of Boston, spoke on “The Keystone of the
Educational Arch.”
	A Law Committee consisting of Mrs. 
Halsted Smith, Rome; Mrs. Frances Akin, 
Cartersville; Mrs. Walter Hill, Macon; and 
Mr. E. Cameron Reed, Atlanta, have fin-
ished their arduous task of making extracts 
from the code of Georgia upon the law of 
the State regarding woman’s legal status. 
The work is well done and is receiving uni-
versal praise wherever the pamphlet is re-
ceived. 
	In England the woman suffrage cause 
has lost two of its oldest friends in Parlia-

[Column 2]
ment. The Hon. C. P. Villiers, “the
Father of the House,” who died at the age 
of ninety-six, on Jan. 16, had never failed 
to vote for the measure from 1870 to 1892,
when he came at great personal inconven-
ience to record his vote for Sir Albert Rol-
lit’s Bill. Mr. George Dixon, M. P. for 
Edgbaston, has also voted since 1870, but 
not so frequently, as he was absent from 
Parliament for several years. 
	The Woman’s National Cuban League 
at Washington, which was an active factor 
in furthering the Cuban cause last fall, has 
reorganized, adopted the old charter and re-
elected its former director-general, Mrs. 
Clara Bell Brown, and its vice director-
general, Mrs. Rosa Louisa Townsend, a 
great granddaughter of one of the signers 
of the Declaration of Independence. The 
purpose of the reorganized league is to give 
aid and comfort to American soldiers and 
sailors. 
	The army hospital ship, Relief, which 
has been fitting out at New York during 
the past month, is the most perfect vessel 
of its kind in the world. As compared 
with the Solace, the navy hospital ship, the 
Relief is superior in structure, speed, ac- 
commodation and equipment. Its berths
for sick and wounded number 1,300, and 
nearly a hundred additional patients can be 
cared for in an emergency. The ship will 
carry a crew under contract, not belonging 
either to the army or navy. The nurses 
will number ten male and eight female
The former are from Mills Training School 
in New York City, and the women from 
John Hopkins Hospital Training School at 
Baltimore. Ex. 
	Mrs. M. E. W. Sherwood tells this anec-
dote in her new volume of reminiscences,
“Here and There and Everywhere.”
“I was present at many dinners when 
Willis was the life of the company, and al-
though I did not hear the famous repartee 
of the Washington dinner so often recorded, 
I will record it here. It was Mrs. Gales, I 
think, who at one of her own dinners wrote 
a card to her niece at the other end of the 
table: “Don’t flirt so with Nat Willis.”
She was talking vivaciously herself to Mr. 
Cambell. Willis replied:
“Dear aunt don’t attempt my young feelin[-]s to 
	trammel,
Nor strain at a Nat while you swallow a Cam-
	bell.”						Ex.


HOW TO CLEAN WINDOWS.

	In the annual work of spring cleaning
there is nothing more important to have
properly done than the washing and polish-
ing of the windows. Unlike other branch-
es of house cleaning, a dull cloudy day is
best for window cleaning as experienced
housekeepers say it cannot be so well done
when the sun is shining on the glass.
When ready to begin the glass should be
well wiped with a soft, dry cloth to free it
from dust, then should be quickly washed
with warm water to which powdered borax
is added and then dried. To polish the
glass after cleaning, fill a small muslin bag
with whitening to which a little powdered
borax is added, and dust thickly over; then
wipe off with a soft cloth and rub with old
newspapers Windows thus washed will
be beautifully clean and bright and will
keep clean a long time.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD

(In Effect July 17, 1898.

	Trains arrive and depart at Salt Lake City
daily as follows:
ARRIVE.
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver, Park City
	and Ogden						3 10 p m
From Helena, Butte, Portland, San
	Francisco. Ogden and intermed-
	iate points						8 55 a m
From San Francisco, Cache Valley
	Ogden and intermediate points.		7 15 p m
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver and Ogden		3 10 a m
*From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete, Pro-
	vo, Eureka, Mammoth, Silver
	City and intermediate points			6 20 p m
Mixed train from Terminus,
	Tooele and Garfield Beach			4 00 p m

DEPART.
For Chicago, Omaha, Denver, Kan-
	sas City, St. Louis, Ogden and
	Park City							7 00 a m 
For San Francisco, Ogden, Cache
	Valley and intermediate points.		8 05 a m
For Ogden, Denver, Kansas City,
	Omaha, St. Louis, Chicago and
	intermediate points					6 25 p m
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland
	and San Francisco					3 45 p m
*For Mercur, Eureka, Silver City,
	Provo, Nephi, Sanpete, Milford,
	Frisco and intermediate points		7 30 a m 
Mixed train for Garfield Beach,
	Tooele and Terminus				7 45 a m
	*Trains south of Juab run daily except
Sunday.
	Daily except Sunday.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, UNDER MASONIC HALL,
No. 200 West Second South street.
	Telephone No. 250.
	Railroad and Steamship Tickets on sale
to all parts of the world.
	Pullman Palace Car ticket office.
					D. E. BURLEY,
				Gen. Pass. and Ticket Agent.
S. W. ECCLES,
		General Traffic Manager.
W. H. BANCROFT,
		Vice-President and Gen. Manager

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1898. No. 6.


CONTENTS:
	The Red Cross—Ellis R. Shipp. 	Special Pri-
mary Meeting—May Anderson. We Mothers—
L. L. Greene Richards. Foreign Letter—Severne
Snow Witbeck. A Visit to Bear Lake—Lydia D.
Alder.  U. W. P .C.—Aimee Schiller.   In Mem-
oriam.   Ladies Semi-monthly Meeting.

	Editorial:—Relief Society Conference. The
War and its Effects. Editorial Notes.

	POETRY:—Horrors of War—R. M. F.  Human-
ity for Cuba—Mary Baird Finch. 	To Frances
Willard—Martha Shepard Lippincott.


HORRORS OF WAR.

Nay, speak not to me of the glories of war, 
Of the glitter and fame, for my soul doth abhor
Such barbarous methods of righting (?) a wrong—
Oh tell me, ye prophets and sages, how long
Ere the nations sha l learn by devices of peace,
Their differences to settle that bloodshed may
	cease ?

My country, my country, proud land of the free,
Though thy cause may be just and thine aim
	liberty;
Yet what can atone for the blood of thy sons,
And the tears of thy daughters, can victories
	won?
If thus thou dost call it, when on ocean and plain,
By thy hand thy brothers lie mangled and slain.

If this be called glory, then never again
May war and its triumphs my fair country stain,
May the emblem of freedom so proudly afloat,
Waft peace to the nations both near and remote,
May its red, white and blue inspire faith in
	mankind,
Till war and oppression are left far behind.

My country, my country, e’en so shall it be,
Behold the bright star of thy destiny;
Will give to the light to promulgate a plan,
Aye a plan to redeem and fraternize man;
Thus the flags of all nations united I see,
Which swells the glad chorus, we are free, we
	are free!

R. M. F.
	July, 1898.


[Column 2]
THE RED CROSS.

	The Heaven born thought that gave it birth,
	Encircles now the sea and earth, 
	Its human hand with potent stroke
 	The echoes of the world awoke,
	Till every heart is touched by human woe
	And thrills responsive, be it friend or foe.

	In studying the history, objects and 
present status of this truly benevolent or-
ganization one’s feelings are naturally
allured to the realms of the divine, for at
every turn we feel the inspiration of the 
divine love which gave birth to the first
grand inspiration. The true love of human-
ity, the desire to alleviate suffering, sorrow,
pain, disease and death whenever and wher-
ever it might be found, is the main spring of
the Red Cross organization. Truly “Those
who love most are most like God, for God
is love.” The tender sympathies of woman
has had much to do with the inception
of this grand idea. The efforts of Florence

[Column 2]
Nightingale and her devoted followers dur-
ing the Crimean war; and the American
Sanitary Commission during our own Civil
War, we might say, took the initiative; al-
though they were not really the originators.
There existed at that time an instinctive
feeling that hospital and ambulance nurses
and doctors should ever stand on mutual
ground and remain as sacred as the white
flag of truce to all nations.
	During the battle of Solferino in Italy,
Dr. Henry Durrant and his friend, Gustave
Moyner, were eye witnesses of the horrors
of the battle field, and with these benevolent
and self-sacrificing men the idea first found
definite shape; but it was not until Febru-
ary 1863, that Dr. Durrant presented the
subject to the society at Geneva, Switzer-
land; suggesting that in times of peace
societies be formed for the much needed re-
lief of the wounded when war should again
break out. This resulted in appointing a
committee to consider and examine into the
merits of the case, then after much consider-
ation and discussion an international con-
ference was called for the next October,
which in turn resulted in the calling of an
international congress for the following
year. At this conference the original arti-
cles of the Geneva convention were adopted
which in substance were as follows:
	1—For the neutrality of ambulances and
military hospitals as long as they contain
any sick.
	2—For that of their staff.
	3—That the neutrality of these persons
shall continue after occupation of their hos-
pitals by the enemy, so they may stay or
depart as they choose.
	4—That if they depart they can take
only their private property with them ex-
cept in case of ambulances which they may
remove entire.
	5—That a sick soldier in a house shall be
counted a protection to it and entitles its
occupants to the exemption to the quarter-
ing of troops and from part of the war re-
quisitions.
	6—That wounded men shall when cured
be sent back to their own country on condi-
tion of their not bearing arms for the rest
of the war.
	7—That hospitals and ambulances shall
carry in addition to the flag of their own
nation a distinctive and uniform flag bearing
a red cross on a white ground, and that
their staff shall wear an arm badge of the
same colors.
	8—That the details shall be left to their
commanders.
	Out of compliment to the Swiss govern-
ment, which called the first congress, their
national flag was adopted with the colors
reversed; their flag being red with a white
cross.
	It is quite humiliating to our national
conceit and the much boasted humanity
of America that she was one of the last to
adopt the provisions of the Red Cross,
while Spain was one of the first twelve na-
tions represented at the Geneva convention.
America was even behind Turkey and Per-
sia. The honored twelve are Switzerland,

[Column 3]
Baden, Belgium, Denmark, Spain, Holland,
France, Hesse, Italy, Portugal, Prussia
and Wirtemburg.
	The plan adopted arranged for an inter-
national committee to propagate the move-
ment, and that each nation should on its
own accord arrange for a national Red
Cross Society. It was also agreed that an
international conference of all nations inter-
ested should be held every four years to
consider amendments, and as circumstances
and conditions demanded enlarge and im-
prove upon the original idea.
	In 1868 the first quadrennial was held in
Geneva, amendments were made extending
its benefits to maritime warfare, also reserving
the right to suspend these advantages even
till the end of the war where it is known
that these privileges have been abused, and
at least until the contrary is proven.
	This is the foundation upon which the
great Red Cross of today is erected Chang-
es in detail have occasionally been made
and signed by the nations concerned; but
only two of much importance have been
made. The first, proposed by Russia, pro-
vides “that all persons abusing the privileges
of the Red Cross in times of war be treated
as spies and summarily dealt with.” The
other is known as the civil branch, or the
American amendment, and was introduced
by our own Clara Barton, whose illustrious
name is intimately associated with the Red
Cross movement. It seems that it took a
woman’s far-reaching, unselfish nature to
devise such a code of reasoning as we find
in this amendment; which provides for the
extension of this relief work of the Red
Cross in all national calamities such as
floods, fire, famine, pestilence and all dis-
asters of sufficient gravity and magnitude
to be considered of national importance.
	But it was not until within a very recent
period that this usually wide awake nation
was aroused by the appeals of suffering
humanity; notwithstanding these appeals
were repeatedly represented by her own un-
daunted daughter, Clara Barton, who has per-
sistently and unflinchingly plodded ever
onward as only those can who work for the
benefit of others, her great aim being to
palliate the woes and relieve the ills of all
suffering humanity, and today she stands
as the leading Red Cross character of the
world.
	During the Civil war her services were of
incalculable value to the government in as-
sisting the Sanitary Commission, especially
in the medical department; and how her
gentle heart must have been touched by
the suffering she witnessed! In speaking
of that war she says: “It had no ray of
this fraternal light,” meaning the Red
Cross. “The great commissions rose and
performed a work of relief hitherto un-
known, but from lack of military recogni-
tion their best efforts comparatively failed,
and for lack of permanent organizations
their future possibilities were lost to the
world.”
	One of Clara Barton’s greatest acheive-
ments, and no doubt a labor attended with
the greatest anxiety, was the war she waged
with her own nation, wherein for fifteen


[Column 1]
years she maintained her ground, plead-
ing with Congress to endorse this grand
and far-reaching relief work the Red Cross,
which had already been recognized by near-
ly every other civilized nation, even barbar-
ic Spain. At last she became desperate and
as we say in medicine, she took a heroic
position, and organized a Red Cross Society
of her own, and was elected president in
1881. This decisive movement was fol-
lowed by the first gleam of hope from the
National Capital, for in the same year
President Authur gave the Red Cross favor-
able mention in his message to Congress.
Soon after the numerous petitions and doc-
uments she had presented to Congress and
that had for years been laying in the State
department, were brought to light and sub-
mitted to congressional consideration, and
finally on March 16, 1882, it was honored
by that influential body, only eighteen
years after Spain had given her recognition.
	But not until a very recent period—since
the beginning of the present war—neither
the United States nor Spain had endorsed
more than the ten original articles of the
Geneva convention, the amendments of
1868 had not all been formally accepted.
	The Swiss Government has since its first
organization been the tender nurse of the
Red Cross, and during the Franco-Prussian
war was brought about the formal provi-
sional adoption of these amendments by
both countries.
	In the beginning of the present war the 
Swiss ministers at Madrid and Washington
suggested to each other that the principles
of the Red Cross in their entirety be form-
ally adopted. And it is a peculiar coinci-
dence that both the Spanish and American
nations on May 9, 1898, announced to the
Swiss ministers at Washington that they
would each adhere to the Red Cross princi-
ples,
	Thus we find this grand humanitarian
plan is now in full force with the conflict-
ing nations, and it is hoped that both will
hold sacred this beautiful ensign of allevia-
tion, the Red Cross flag.
	Since writing the above the world has
learned more of treacherous Spain and is
surprised with her cruelty and disregard of
a religious and most sacred compact. Dur-
ing that terrific battle in the present
month at Santiago de Cuba while the
whole world was trembling with agonizing
suspense—while the friends of those fight-
ing heroes were soothed somewhat with the
thoughts that their loved ones would at
least have the protection of the Red Cross—
just think even beneath its fluttering folds
physicians were shot down while engaged
in caring for the wounded and dying. And
soldiers while crawling painfully, seeking
places of succor and shelter had the fleeting
rays of life extinguished by Spanish bullets.
Well may we cry shame upon such inhu-
manity! Shame upon a nation that can so
soon forget its sacred obligations! But let us
close our eyes to these atrocities and rather
dwell upon the beneficent work of the Red
Cross in the last quarter of a century. It
is certainly one of the greatest triumphs of
civilization and the financial outlook is
stupendous. During the Franco-Russian
war the German Red Cross collected and
expended thirteen million dollars, while
the French and English spent two million
more, and the Swiss Red Cross at the evac-
uation of Strasburg fed and sheltered thirty
thousand French refugees. During the
Franco-Russian war the Red Cross was at

[Column 2]
first ignored by the government, but prov-
ing their efficiency by collecting seventeen
million dollars they were soon called upon
to take entire charge of the hospital service
of the army.
	The American Red Cross has been organ-
ized seventeen years and has been an all
pervading presence in the following disas-
ters: Forest fires of Michigan in 1881. Over-
flow of the Mississippi in 1882. Overflow
of the Ohio in 1883. The Ohio and Miss-
ssippi flood in 1883. Texas famine in 1885.
Charleston earthquake in 1886. Mt. Ver-
non, Ill., cyclone in 1887. Yellow fever
epidemic in Florida in 1888. Johnstown
flood in 1889. The Russian famine in
1891-92. The Pomeroy, (Iowa,) cy-
clone in 1892. The hurricane and tidal
wave of the Sea Islands of South Carolina
in 1893-94. The relief of the persecuted
Armenians in 1896. Caring for the suffering
Cubans in 1898, and at present the results of
American-Spanish warfare claim the at-
tention of the Red Cross forces, not only
abroad but at home, and all honor to our
Red Cross sisters here in Utah who have
labored so assiduously and efficiently in this
great common cause, and in this great age
which may be justly called the age of heart.
	In days of old might not right was king,
and Hercules was powerful because of
muscle. Next came the age of intellect
when the tape measure was placed around
the brain, when we had one Shakespeare as
a model of greatness. But the greatest age
is that of human love—when the holy im-
pulses emanating from the heart sway the
multitudes and encompass the whole world.
And as a beginning of this great epoch let
us bow in reverence to the Red Cross.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.
Read before the U. W. P. C. July 30, 1898.


WOMANS EXPONENT


SPECIAL PRIMARY MEETING.

	A special meeting of the Primary Stake
officers was held in Wanship, Summit Stake
Saturday July 15, President Louie B. Felt
and Counselor May Anderson of the Gener-
al Board were present.  The meeting was
appointed by President Cluff of Summit
Stake for the purpose of organizing the
Stake board of the Primary Association,
Sister Louisa Roundy having decided to re-
sign her position as Stake president.
	After opening the meeting in the usual
manner Sister Roundy stated why she
wished to be released from her office; it was
not because she was tired of her work or
wished to shirk her duty, she loved her
work with the children and believed the
children loved her, but felt that it being
necessary to be away from Summit consid-
erable of her time, that the work would not
receive the attention it needed, that it
would be better to step out and let someone
who was more free attend to the many
duties of the office.  Sister Roundy has
held the position of Stake president in the
Primary association for eighteen years and
during that time missed but four confer-
ences, and those on account ot sickness.
	President Cluff, Bishop Atwood of Kamas,
and Sister Roundy’s counselors all bore tes-
timony to the faithfulness with which Sis-
ter Roundy had discharged her duties,
though she had many difficulties and ob-
stacles to meet, and that Summit Stake
could vote to accept Sister Roundy’s resig-
nation with honor, credit and all the praise
that any one holding position could deserve.


Bishop Atwood proposed that the resig-
nation of Sister Roundy be accepted and
that she be honorably released from her posi-
tion, and accorded a vote of thanks for her
work and labor in the Primary Association
of Summit Stake;  the proposition was
seconded and President Cluff presented it
and it was carried unanimously.
	Sister Margaret Salmon of Coalville, was
unanimously sustained to fill the vacant
position.  Sister Salmon not being notified
of this honor was unable on such short
notice to choose her counselors and was
given until the next Stake conference to
find suitable and congenial sisters to help
her in her new duties.  Sister Olive Reed
was proposed and unanimously sustained to
fill the position of Stake secretary and
treasurer.
	During the meeting some of the children
rendered interesting exercises and suitable
and instructive remarks were made by Sisters
Felt and Anderson and also by President
Cluff.
	After the meeting Sisters Felt and Ander-
son were taken by Brother and Sister Cluff
to their beautiful home in Coalville and
were right well entertained by their hospit-
able hosts.  Coalville is a delightful place
in the summer, cool breezes and cold nights,
the change from Salt Lake was truly de-
lightful and sleep was so refreshing.
				MAY ANDERSON,
General Secretary Primary Association.


TO FRANCES WILLARD.

We mourn that she has left us,
	To dwell on earth no more
The whole world’s heart is grieving,
	And all her death deplore.
So faithful, sweet, courageous,
	Our leader e’er hath been,
In elevating mankind,
	Discouraging all sin.

But though we keenly miss her,
	Let us remember still,
That dear Miss Willard left us,
	Because it was God’s will.
We may not see the reason,
	Why she was called away,
But our dear Father willed not
	Death’s angel to delay.

He knew her work was well done,
	And she had earned her rest,
Safe in the arms of Jesus,
	Her spirit will be blest.
And though we cannot see her,
	Her spirit e’er will be
Abiding near to lead us,
	That we God’s ways may see.

Her life and thoughts will still live.
	To help i spire mankind;
’Tis on y the frail body
	That we no more shall find.
Oh ! sweet, unselfish woman,
	Our memory will be true. 
And hold in mind the Christ life,
	That in thy spirit grew.

Oh! let us follow onward
	And do as she would bid,
Until of crimes and sinning,
	The earth at last is rid;
And souls on earth are living,
	As God would will them to,
Each doing unto others,
	As He would have hem do.
		MARTHA SHEPARD LIPPINCOTT
Morristown. N. J.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HUMANI[-]Y FOR CUBA.

Oh! Cuba. ’tis for thee 
Our flags shall gem the sea
	On many a shore. 
We offer bravest sons, 
With freedom’s booming guns 
To save the starving ones 
	Forevermore. 

Antilles’ fairest pearl, 
Thy new-born flag unfurl 
	With silver star 
Star that shall light the waves, 
Above our brothers’ graves
Who hold the flag that saves 
	The tide of war. 

Spain’s yellow ensign must 
Be trailed in Cuban dust
	For child and man, 
Forgot their woes and pains 
From iron heel of Spain, 
Remembering the Maine 
	In freedom’s van.

Our fathers’ flag to thee 
We lend, oh! Cuba free—
	Love’s loyal sign;
We give our brave and best, 
From freedom’s mountain crest 
To bring thee peace and rest,
	Oh! Cuba mine.

We send our sons and sires 
To light sweet freedom’s fires
	On thy fair sea.
These comrades blue and gray 
Clasp hands upon the way, 
United, each shall say, 
	“Rise, Cuba free!”
			MARY BAIRD FINCH.
-Woman’s Tribune.


[Column 1]
WE MOTHERS.

	The Mothers’ Congress held in this 
(Salt Lake) city recently, awakened no 
small amount of interest among our ladies, 
both young and aged. But so many other 
things crowding quick and fast upon us, 
may well give rise to the fears that the in-
terest aroused may wane before any great 
amount of good shall have been effected by 
out growths from the Congress. 
	However, a subject of such great im-
portance as more enlightened motherhood, 
should not be dropped nor lost sight of, but 
continuously agitated by converts to its 
cause, until every one comes to understand 
that it is a matter that concerns each indi-
vidual, all communities and the whole
world.
	That great man Oliver Wendell Holmes, 
who was ever a staunch friend of woman, 
is credited with being the originator of the 
announcement that a child’s education
should be commenced a hundred years be-
fore its birth. That is all very well for 
those people who shall live a few genera-
tions after us; but whatever our own early 
education may have consisted in, either be-
fore or after we were born, what we are 
really most concerned about today is and 
ought to be our own and our children’s ad-
vancement and development in the most 
essential and saving elements of present 
and eternal progression. 
	This high education, which, if we moth-
ers are to impart or even to assist in impart-
ing to the children, must first become the 
governing principles of our own lives. 
Family government in these days has be-
come, to a great extent, democratic rather 
than patriarchal, as in ancient times. The

[Column 2]
old extremes in relation to these things 
have given place to new ones, which in 
many respects are as bad or worse for lack 
of restraint than the former were for undue 
restriction. Fathers are no longer looked 
up to as leaders, or even as counselors in 
many homes; and mothers who fail by 
word and example in doing their part to in-
stil into their children’s minds and hearts 
due respect for their fathers, will also fail 
in retaining the respect which as mothers 
they should have a right to expect from their
children.
	The children certainly have rights also, 
which should be as carefully guarded by 
the parents as their own. And one of 
these sacred rights is the right to be wisely 
disciplined, and taught during infancy and 
childhood the beautiful home lessons which 
every mother should delight in teaching, 
those lessons of the heart rather than of 
the head. 
	First of all to know God as being truly 
our Father in Heaven. Yes, first to know 
God. I believe the baby may with its 
very first awakening to understanding, 
draw from its mother’s breast the spirit of 
faith and love and trust with its daily 
nourishment. The spirit of prayer, which 
with infant breath may be wafted to the 
Heavenly Presence and recognized, even 
before the lips can lisp the first syllable. 
Thus the education commenced before birth 
(if begun aright) goes on without cessa-
tion. 
	The next lesson after prayer, I believe, 
should be unselfishness. With these two 
lessons firmly established in the child’s
heart and mind, all the other matters per-
taining to the highest home education will 
follow in their courses easily and naturally. 
It is perfectly natural for an unselfish per-
son to be polite. The Golden Rule, “To
do to others as you would be done unto,”
is all there is to true politeness. And yet 
politeness has so much to do in each life. 
	To be able to lay self aside and study the 
interest of others, finding joy in so doing, is
indeed one of the highest attainments to 
which mortals can hope to reach. And yet 
it really is among the first and most im- 
portant lessons which can be placed before 
the child. 
	If there is anything in the world that a 
mother might be justified in allowing her-
self to be a little selfish over, it is the love 
and confidence of her children. Yet even 
in this she must be particularly guarded, 
or she will make mistakes which will bring 
regrets instead of pleasure. In taking all
the parental care and responsibilities which 
legitimately belong to her (and they form 
no mean portion) a mother must be very 
exact in the measurements of many im-
portant items, which will be submitted for 
her consideration, lest she trespass upon 
the rights of that superior adviser, that 
lawful head of the household, the father of 
her children.
	A son, perhaps in all the freshness and 
glory of early manhood, comes to his moth-
er with a question of more than usual im-
portance which he is impatient to have set-
tled at once. He takes her in his arms, as 
she used to do by him before he had grown 
taller, heavier and stronger than herself. 
The thought of the changed condition 
brings a happy, grateful feeling to both 
mother and son. Then he urges the neces-
sity of an immediate decision being made.
Kisses her and pleads again that she will 
no longer hesitate, but answer the question

[Column 3]
which means so much to them. She might
answer him “yes” or “no” thinking to
preserve the dignity her son accords to her
by making her his counselor. But, to
maintain the proper order in the home
government, and once more to impress up-
on the mind of her faithful boy, the weigh-
ty lesson which she has so often repeated to
him, of looking to his parental head for
the solution of all such important and diffi-
cult questions, she says, “I must not
answer this, my son; I’ll tell you what we
will do to get the correct answer. We will
both of us pray unitedly that your father
may be inspired to give you the right coun-
sel in regard to this matter. And we must
be satisfied with what he shall say about it.
Give him his own time to consider the sub-
ject, and make up your mind that what he
decides will be the best for you, now and
always, and it will never fail you.” If the
mother had felt before hand that such a
declaration would be lessening her influence
with her son by pointing him to higher
authority than her own, the feeling does
not remain afterwards. She has done her
duty both to her child and his father, and
her reward is in the satisfaction she feels
over it.
	And when a few days later the father’s
decision is given, and proves to be the same
that her own must have been, and their
boy, though greatly disappointed, says
manfully, “That settles it!” and with a
heroism which the parents had scarcely
dared hope for in their boy, he throws off
the old “idea” as soon as possible, and with-
out giving any one trouble over it, inter-
ests himself in whatever the rest of the
household are interested in, that mother
feels a thousand times repaid for any sacri-
fice she has ever made for that boy. But
there are mothers and boys who do not have
such happy terminations to some of their
knotty questions.
	We mothers sometimes have much to
grieve over in our children that might be
avoided, if every household would form it-
self into a “Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion,” for the purpose of home education.
In such an organization the tiniest tot that
could speak as well as the parents, grand-
parents, older children, hired help, and
every resident in the home would be learn-
ing daily lessons of usefulness and happiness
superior in some respects to any lesson that
may be learned at school.
			L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


MRS. STANTON'S LETTERS.—It is our 
duty to kindle the fires of liberty on both 
continents and on all the islands of the sea. 
I know that war makes great suffering, 
and so does what we call peace under the 
competitive system,for the mass of mankind. 
My sympathies go out to our boys in rags 
in our mines, factories, jails and prisons, 
and to the despairing mothers who can 
give them neither food, clothes nor a sure 
abiding place. 
	Let the fight go on until every tyrant 
learns that by divine right every man and 
woman has the title deed to enough of this 
green earth for a permanent home from
which no person can eject them. When 
the laws and constitutions, creeds and 
codes do this, the State and Church will 
have a new value. We see the signs on all
sides of the new day dawning when the 
competitive system will give place to the 
new gospel of co-operation.


28 WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
WOMAN'S EXPONENT 
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia),  Editorial Contributor. 
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Business hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every 
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter.
		Salt Lake City, August 15, 1898.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. 

	The Relief Society Conference of Salt 
Lake Stake will be held in the Assembly 
hall in this city, on Saturday, September 
4, meetings commencing at 10 a. m. and 2
p. m., as usual. It is confidently hoped 
that every branch in the Stake will be rep-
resented by its president and a number of 
the members. Bishops and presiding 
brethren are cordially invited and all others 
who are interested in charitable and philan-
thropic work for the good of humanity. By 
order of M. Isabella Horne, President.


[Column 1]

THE WAR AND ITS EFFECTS.

There was never a time in the world’s
history so full to overflowing of matters of
great importance as the present and especi-
ally this year, the world over teems with 
interesting and even exciting conditions and 
circumstances, and those who live today 
cannot fail to be impressed with the stirring 
events that cast their shadows all about us, 
making one feel alive to the very centre of 
his being. 
To enumerate the remarkable occurrences 
in detail is the work of the daily papers,
and what a labor it is, and who can read 
what is written without strong emotional 
sensations. “Whither are we drifting?”
might well be asked, but who shall answer? 
Have we really fallen upon evil times? One 
might almost think so, and yet there are 
blessings innumerable vouchsafed us even 
in these times of war and bloodshed and 
desolation.
The war is over we hear repeated and re-
echoed on all sides, but its attendant 
consequences cannot be done away with for 
a long time and meantime conditions result-
ing from the war are not easily adjusted. 
During the period of a few months ever 
since the Cuban question forced itself upon 
the people of the United States, the most 
intense thought has been given to this 
momentous question of Cuba’s freedom; the 
destruction of the Maine precipitated the 
urgent call to arms and what has followed 
here and elsewhere can never all be told or 
written. The horrors of war that come in 
blood and wounds and disease as well as 
death are too grave and serious to dwell 
upon and one tries to put aside this terrible 
tragedy of war if it can be done; but to 
those in the midst of these scenes what 
must it be? And it is our own American 
boys, the flower of the land, the pride of 

[Column 2]
the homes of a free people. What will be 
the after effect upon these brave and gallant 
young men is still unknown and unforseen. 
Cuba is free but what of our boys who 
fought for the Cubans? Those men who 
died gloriously are safe but they are only a 
few compared to those who survive—will
life ever be the same to them again? To 
the few perhaps and we trust so to all of 
our own people the Latter-day Saints; but 
to the masses who bravely faced death as 
volunteers. It will be a problem; and 
there are home problems of great importance 
financial and moral to be considered in the 
near future. 
Men in general consider this war un-
avoidable but many women and a few men 
think it might have been avoided, but wo-
men were not considered, their opinions 
were not counted but their money, their 
homes, their taxes will make them a part 
of the after thought. Their past so far has 
been first of all to give their sons, their hus-
bands to their country, they have done this 
nobly and heroically. Then they gave ser-
vice such as women can render in many 
ways, through organizations, nurses and
ships they went into the camps and field 
hospitals and aboard the ships and in every 
way possible did efficient duty among the 
sick and wounded. And what will be the 
next chapter in the course of events—they
must bear their share of the expense of the 
nation. Men sometimes forget that women 
are property owners, that the war taxes 
will fall heavily upon women as well as 
men. Women are not exempt from tax-
ation even where there is no representation 
and that is almost everywhere as only four 
states have equal suffrage. 
This burden of taxation among others 
will have to be borne by women, for where 
women are not property owners, as in the 
family life of men and women, women 
must help to pay the taxes by economy 
and thrift if not by actual labor. The 
opinions of prominent women in the United 
States on the war question is being sought 
after by some liberal-minded editors, and 
certainly views entertained by women who
have lived three and four score years ought
to be worth something to the public.
Susan B. Anthony said: “There is, there
can be no justifiable cause for war save that 
founded on the barbarism of one or both of 
the nations entering into that mode of set-
tling differences. But Quaker though I am, 
I always hope and pray for success to the 
most nearly civilized party, and that, in this 
case, goes without a question on the side of 
United States. But the time is not far dis-
tant when fighting to settle differences be-
tween two nations will be no less horrible 
than is fighting now between two men.”
Dr. Anna H. Shaw: “I do not consider 
the present war justifiable, because war to 
be justifiable should be the last resort of a 
civilized people. President McKinley 
through the Administration representatives 
made it clearly understood that if Congress 
would adjourn and end all discussion, 
which aroused only hatred of the Spaniards 
for the Americans without relieving the 
Cubans, war would have been averted.”
Alice Stone Blackwell, a young woman,
says:“I think the war was justifiable if it 
was the only way of stopping Spanish 
atrocities in Cuba. Whether it was the 
only way or not I am not sure and do not 
feel that my knowledge of international di-
plomacy is complete enough to enable me 
to form a valid opinion. If the object 

[Column3]
could have been accomplished by any 
means short of war, the resort to arms was 
wrong. But the cruelties in Cuba had to 
be stopped in one way or the other.”
Elizabeth Cady Stanton:“I consider
war under many circumstances a blessing 
all along from the play ground to the throne. 
Through our war with England we gained
ndependence and a free republic. Through 
our Civil war we freed four million slaves. 
Every bully that is thoroughly thrashed on 
the play ground gives new liberty and self-
respect to half a dozen other boys. If we 
can overturn the Spanish dynasty in all her 
islands it will be worth the loss of men and 
ships. Life is not worth much without 
liberty. My one regret is that we did not 
thrash that cruel, brutal nation, with her 
bull fights and inquisitions, long ago. It is 
a miracle to me that she has been tolerated 
so long in the heart of Europe. Our pres-
ent civilization, on the competitive system, 
is based on the war principle: ‘Every man
for himself; starvation and death for the
hindmost.’ All talk about peace, nation-
al and international conventions are of no 
special value at this stage of our develop-
ment. Justice, liberty, equality for all first, 
and then ‘that peace that passeth all under-
standing.’”
Julia Ward Howe: “I consider the pres-
ent war with Spain to have been inevitable.
Suffering Cuba has long agonized under 
Spanish misrule. Her sufferings have been 
so aggravated by the barbarous methods of 
warfare adopted by Spanish commanders as 
to have become intolerable, not to the 
Cubans alone, but to the very heart of hu-
manity. The Christian world had reason
to be deeply concerned when the Powers of
Western Europe declined to interfere for
the prevention of the cruel outrages which 
the Spanish government inflicted upon the 
Armenians, and which were a stain upon 
the honor of Christendom. I thank God 
that we are doing something to retrieve this 
disgrace by rising up to help our neighbor 
in her need.”
Mary A. Livermore: “Whether the war 
with Spain is justifiable or not I am not 
sufficiently acquainted with the facts to 
judge. The brutal misgovernment of 
Spain for centuries has wrought such
wretchedness and desolation in Cuba, with 
no hope of a change for the better, that it 
called for the interference of the United 
States, which demanded of Spain the inde-
pendence of Cuba. They that are strong 
ought to bear the infirmities of the weak 
and not to please themselves. The ques-
tion of Cuban freedom could not be sub-
mitted to the arbitration of European!
nations. Their attitude towards Turkey, 
red-handed with Armenian massacre and 
extermination forbade it. The United 
States was compelled to deal with Spain 
alone. Whether President McKinley could 
have accomplished the desired end without 
war, but for the interference of Congress, is 
problematical. I have thought so, but. my
opinion has been modified as the war has 
progressed. I believe in the ultimate abo-
lition of war, I cannot ignore the fact that 
it has been a powerful factor in the evolu-
tion of civilization.”
Other women whose opinions on this 
subject have been given to the press are 
Mrs. John A. Logan. Ellen M. Henrotin, 
J. Ellen Foster, Ella Knowles Haskell and 
some not as widely known. It would be.
well lor the readers of the “Exponent". to
carefully consider this question, it is well to


look into all the phases of the war problem. 
It vitally concerns us all, we in Utah are 
called upon to bear our share of the burden.
And as we have equal rights to citizenship 
we should express our views on these great 
questions of national importance and make 
ourselves acquainted with historical facts.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 
We observe in notes of Relief Society 
conference of Utah Stake in the last num-
ber of this paper the date is May 15, where-
as it was written July 15, and was the cor-
rect date. 
One of our widowed sisters who has to 
support herself is making by hand neat sun-
bonnets, very pretty and servicable and is 
anxious to dispose of them, they are suitable 
for school children or for smaller ones, 
playing out doors and for the girls and wo-
men rusticating in the mountains or in the 
country elsewhere or for outdoor flower-
gardening or fruit gathering. The sister 
lives at 233 B. St. at Brother L. A. Wil-
son's. 
Sister E. J. Stevenson visited the Sisters'
Relief Society conference at Morgan Stake 
and President Louie Felt of the Primary 
was present at the Primary conference, also 
Sister Stevenson. Both conferences were 
well attended and the spirit and feeling is 
reported as being excellent, the people re-
joicing as elsewhere throughout the State 
in having an abundant harvest of grain. 
It was our good pleasure to attend the 
Sisters' Relief Society conference of Malad 
Stake on the 13th and 14th of this month. 
Meetings were held at West Portage, com-
mencing with the Relief Society, Saturday 
at 10 a. m., Mrs. Lucinda Hoskins presid-
ing. Another meeting at 2 p. m., and at 
the close, perhaps 5 o'clock, the Relief 
Society conference adjourned for three 
months. The subjects dwelt upon were 
industry, silk raising included, economy in 
the household, saving grain, reading 
the Book of Doctrine and Covenants in their 
meetings, annual meeting of each Society 
in the Stake where yearly reports are 
given, necessity of keeping correct records, 
and many other important matters. 
The Young Ladies' conference which 
opened Saturday evening was presided 
over by President Elvira A. Harrison and 
a short but good program rendered, after 
which subjects suitable to the young peo-
ple were spoken upon. Presiden O. C. 
Hoskins was present at both the conferences 
also his counselors, and spoke briefly and 
encouragingly to the sisters. The follow-
ing morning at 10 a. m. the Y. L. confer-
ence had other exercises rendered by the 
young sisters in a very creditable manner. 
The Primary conference was held in the 
afternoon after the sacrament had been ad-
ministered. President Emma H. Halford 
presiding, assisted in the rendering of the 
program by President Philene Hall of the 
local association in West Portage. The 
choldren acquitted themselves admirably 
and observed excellent order. They sang 
Beautiful Zion; recitation by little John R. 
Gibbs; singing, Hold fast the Iron Rod, by 
Tillie McCrary, Naomi Gibbs, Rhoda 
Anthony and Margaret Gibbs; reading 
from Juvenile Instructor, Editorial 
Thoughts, Leona Zundell; recitation, little
LaFayette Young, Keep on Trying; ques-
tions from the Life of Joseph Smith, answ-
ered by the Primary Association; song, 
Sarah M. Gibbs (a very sweet voice,)
three little girls kneeling sang "Our Father in 
heaven we hallow Thy name," etc., it was a 
beautiful sight and well rendered; song, O, 
my Father, by Matilda McCrary, Annie J.
and Eliza Harris, Annie Hall, Leona Zun-
dell, Reba Heaton and Ruby Merrill, and 
accompanied on the organ; recitation, Who 
Made the Stars? little Azella McCrary; 
song, Annie J. Hall and Eliza Harris. 
About forty children took part in the exer-
cises. 
The women of the State are doubtless 
aware that there are important political 
matters pending, in which they are equally 
interested with men and that some attention 
should be given to the vital points at issue; 
as agitation increases, questions present 
themselves that one had supposed would 
never have been considered, and yet they 
cannot be thrust aside when once broached.
The Primaries come first and it is there the 
mischief is usually concocted, if women 
would attend the Primaries in goodly num-
bers there would not be so favorable an op-
portunity for accomplishing evil designs. 
It is the duty of those who can go to be 
present at the Primaries and see to it that 
good men and women are sent as delegates 
to the Conventions. 
Among the schools, academies and col-
leges perhaps the one in the city that de-
serves special notice is the Latter-day 
Saints College. It is an institution under 
the direction of the Church as the name im-
plies and deserves the patronage of the peo-
ple in whose interest it was founded and is 
maintained. Looking over the Catalogue 
for the year it seems to be thoroughly equip-
ped for its purposes in ever department of 
school work. Willard Done D. B., Ph. B., 
President, stands high among men of learn-
ing . and in the community, and the other 
teachers are well qualified for the depart-
ments to which they are assigned. The 
Board of Trustees of teh college and the 
Church Board of Education for this Stake 
are all responsible men of merit and good 
ability and know how to conduct education-
al affairs for the youth of the people and 
of the land. 
The Relief Society of this Stake had an 
outing at Saltair on Monday, August 1,
and a very enjoyable time. President 
Woodruff and President George Q. Cannon 
honored the sisters of this charitable organ-
ization by their presence and also President 
Angus M. Cannon and Counselors Jos. E. 
Taylor and C. W. Penrose and others. 
Sister Zina D. H. Young was one of the party 
and many other noble and venerable 
women of the Church. Sister M. I. Horne 
president, and her aids, as well as all the 
presidents of teh wards in teh city and 
county rendered efficient aid in making 
the Stake party a success. The exercises 
were such as could be seen principally, 
dancing, and recitations by John P. Meakin, 
who could be heard fairly well. He gave 
Sheridan's Ride, Sunshine and Drake's 
Address to the Flag. President Woodruff 
favored the ladies with remarks upon the 
Society which were greatly appreciated. 
Those who in any way assisted many feel 
compensated in the results of the under-
taking socially and financially, and to those 
who helped on the program the heartfelt 
thanks of the President herself and the en- 
tire Society are due, and even the day itself 
was all that could be desired. 
Our sisters will perhaps feel more the 
importance of sustaining the "Exponent" 
when they learn that the Woman's Depart-
ment of the great Exposition at Hague has 
solicited a complete file of the paper to be 
sent them from its publication in 1872; but 
feeling what that would mean to prepare 
all the volumes and send them such a 
distance, we prepared two books, one con-
taining the entire volumes of 25 and 26 
from June 1896 to June 1892- also one 
book containing a few miscellaneous num-
bers from each of teh 26 volumes. These 
were bound in soft leather with gilt let-
tering and sent by mail to Dr. Aletta H.
Jacobs who has charge of this department. 
We also forwarded one copy of our poems 
"Musings and Memories." Dr. Jacobs 
in response says she feels they should have 
had the complete set of the papers - and 
that we must prepare them for the 
World's Exposition in Paris in 1900. We 
hope the sisters will not feel after this 
that the "Exponent" is of little or no con-
sequence.


IN MEMORIAM. 

MANSON JESSE WOODWARD.
	At Kansas City, Mo., on the evening of July 18,
1898, Manson Jesse Woodward, after a long
illness entered into rest, aged seventy-seven years 
and three months, born April 21, 1821, in Peters-
ham Worcester Co., Mass. Impressive funeral
services were held at the house Wednesday 20
burial in Mount Vernon, at Atchison, Kansas,

Tenderly folded in mother earth’s breast,
All that is mortal is now laid to rest;
Long suffering thro’ day, watching thro’ night
Ne’er more can trouble the worn spirit’s flight.
Out from the border-land-life’s fitful dream,
Into life infinite where peace reigns supreme.
Faith points away from the flower-decked sod,
To Soul’s release with a merciful God.
	 L. M. H.


FOREIGN LETTER. 

Malaela, Samoa, July 8, 1898.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	So little you hear of Samoa and so many
Elders have been here proclaiming the Gos-
pel, and our mission has been organized
eleven years, during that time there have
been one hundred and nine missionaries, so
we are now a thoroughly organized mission.
The manners and customs of this people are
different from ours, and the mode in which
we are compelled to proclaim the Gospel so
departing from the usual method, I thought
a letter might be of interest to you and the
readers of the “Exponent.”
	My husband and I left Manti Sep. 9,
1897, for a mission to Samoa. We de-
parted from San Francisco Sep. 10, 1897,
on the steamer Mariposa, all our Elders go
second class. The accommodations on the
Mariposa are not very good on account of
the second class apartments having been
transformed from steerage rooms, but the
same class on some of the other vessels is
very much improved. Sep. 23, we an-
chored at Honolulu where we met Elders
Hill and Ahlstrom, who escorted us to the 
Mission house where we had dinner, chat-
ted about Zion and our voyage. Honolulu
is truly a picturesque city adorned with
lawns, flowers and palms. At 2 p. m. we
again raised anchor. Our voyage was


[Column 1]
calm, there being no high winds or tropical
rains. On Sep. 30. at 10 a. m. we went up
on deck and with the aid of field glasses
we beheld Samoa in the hazy, blue distance.
As we came nearer we could see the out-
lines of the island, next the stately palms,
dotted here and there with white smoke
curling heavenward from the ovens of food,
the little village among the palms, and last
the dusky natives in their curious dress and
canoes. Owing to the bad harbor at Apia
there is no wharf, so we were met on deck
by President Wood who took us ashore in a
small boat. After landing in Apia the
president had a small boy drive us three
miles along the coast to Fagalii, the mission
headquarters. There we met Elders Chaun-
cy Spilsbury, William A. Moody, William
McDermott, D. Foster Cluff and Edwin
Smart. In the evening when President
Wood returned we met in testimony and
sacrament meeting, a usual welcome ac-
corded to all the Elders on their arrival.
	The mission headquarters is a neat little
five roomed frame house surrounded by
lawns, dotted here and there with ferns,
cactus, roses and various flowers adapted to
the climate. Although no mistress person-
ally adorns the home, yet the ideas of a
mistress are seen in all its arrangements.
Samoa, as Stevenson says, is the paradise of
the South Pacific. The natives are not in-
dustrious. Nature produces their food with
but little work on their part, thus fostering
indolence; however, the talo needs consider-
able attention as it must be irrigated and
weeded.
	The new woman has not yet come to
Samoa. She is of little consequence here
save in courting. When married she gath-
ers the food from the bush, makes the cigar-
etts for the men, as smoking is universal;
her name is significant, “Faletua,” the
back part of the house.
	In an article in the February number of
the “Exponent” entitled “Polynesia,” de-
scribing the customs of some of the South
Sea islanders, the custom of ava drinking is
referred to as follows:
	“After the [-]atives have drunk th ir fill of awa
(ava) they simply fall over from their seats on
the mats on which they have been sit ing while
drinking, and sleep ou[-] the effects of the drug, un-
til which it would be impossible for them to stand
up for a moment.”
	Since the arrival of our Elders eleven
years ago there has been no such custom.
One of our first missionaries, Elder E. J.
Wood, who is now on his second mission as
president, never heard of such a thing. In
preparing the ava instead of its being mas-
ticated by the virgins, it is pounded fine on
smooth rocks for the purpose, put in a
wooden bowl where it is then strained,
after which it is served to the chiefs by the
virgins with great ceremony.
	In the same article the writer says:
	"Speaking about storms in the tropics my hus-
band relates an experience he had in Samoa.
While crossing a lava bed [-]bout twelve miles i
extent together with a traveling companion, a
regular tropica rain storm came upon them; and
such a storm conveys the sense of "pourin[-]"
more than raining to the average American. See-
ing the storm approach m[-] husband i[-] speaking
to his companion expressed the regret they had
taken no overcoats along. “Overcoats,” respond-
ed his companion, “just look at me, and if you
like you can fol ow my example.” To his sur-
prise his companion immediately undressed him-
self and put his clothes in his ittle and satchel.
My husband hesitated but finally did likewise, and
the result was that when the storm abated they
both had dry clothing to put on.”
	For fear the readers may think this is the

[Column 2]
way the Elders travel, as the subject of the
incident is the traveling Church historian,
I will simply state it is the first incident of
its kind in Samoa that our president has
ever heard of; although we have rains that
fully convey the sense of pouring and bliz-
zards accompanying them to make it more
severe, yet such an act would not for one
moment be countenanced in the Samoan
mission. Contrary wise the Elders are
very, very particular about their person
and dress, remarkably neat considering the
class of people they labor among. I have
no wish to criticise the writer, but simply to
state facts is the reason why I have men-
tioned these things.
	Conditions make differences in the meth-
od of proclaiming the Gospel. For instance,
the Savior’s command to His apostles that
they should go forth and preach without
purse or scrip is impossible in some coun-
tries on account of laws forbidding it.
Holding outdoor meetings in Samoa is not
necessary as in America, for there is always
a house that the earnest Elder may have
for the simple asking for it. Although
Samoa has been termed barbaric which
warrants ignorance on the part of the in-
stigator, Samoan civilization has some of
the characteristics of an ideal community.
Seldom indeed a young man is found who
cannot read or write, and from a narrative
point of view knows Genesis to Revelation
with considerable clearness, yet doctrinally
their views are rather shallow. The method
of proclaiming the Gospel in Samoa is left to
the good judgment of every Elder. Tracts
are distributed and house to house visits
are made. When a chief or man of author-
ity embraces the Gospel he is generally the
beginner of the Church in that village.
He builds a house with the assistance of
the Elder in which meetings are held on
Sunday and generally one during the week.
The house also is the home of the Elder.
A school is commenced with great num-
bers for the first few days. All novelties
have their followers. The English lan-
guage is a coveted gem on Samoa. School
dwindles down to a very few; generally
the children who stay embrace the Gospel
and many times have been the means of
bringing their parents into the Church.
	Four churches are established on Samoa.
Faiti, which came first, is the Lutheran
church; the Toga, because it came from
Toga, is the Wesleyan church; the Catholic;
and last and fewer in number is the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Much
bitterness is manifested towards us by the
teachers of villages as one by one the sheep
over which they are man-made shepherds
hear the voice of the Good Shepherd and
follow Him, thereby lessening their flocks,
and increasing the fold of Christ. Out of
the population of 30,000 on Samoa upwards
of 1,000 have embraced the Gospel.
	There are at present twenty-seven Elders
and three sisters laboring on the islands of
Samoa. A great field is open for our sis-
ters in teaching the people the art of dress,
as they are very careless about their person.
A taste must be cultivated for neatness;
Spencer says that ornamentation precedes
dress. This does not seem to be verified
with the Samoans, usefulness seems to be
their paramount consideration in clothing.
As to their homes they could be very much
improved in neatness and convenience.
This can only be done by rearing their chil-
dren and instilling into them entirely new
ideas concerning home life. I have had a

[Column 3]
class in sewing and crochet work, they
"pick it up" very readily, it gives me great
delight to start them in this work. Crude
as are the results, yet all reformations have
small beginnings. I hope an evolution
will be carried on until we have them carry-
ing that glorious banner—Civilization in its
true meaning.
Your sister on Samoa,
(MRS.) SEVERNE SNOW WITBECK.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A VISIT TO BEAR LAKE.

	July 2. Night on the train: speeding
along through the darkness with an oc-
casional stop; lights flashing here and there;
while nearing stations the shrill screech of
the engine, then away into the darkness
again.
	In the palace cars brilliant with light and
grandeur wearied humanity lounges on the
cushioned chairs; family groups presenting
pictures of ease and rest. Young mothers
embracing their sleeping infants charm the
eye with their grace and beauty. Change
cars at Cache Junction with the accompan- 
ing hurry and bustle; parting with those
who go to Cache Valley, goodbye to the 
darling babies, then away again into the -
night.
	Some passengers sleep while others
lounge at their ease. Away the train
speeds, station after station left behind, un-
til the many shining lights of Pocatello
gleam out in the darkness. Change cars
for Montpelier, then on again as before.
Soon faint glimmerings of light appear
over the eastern mountains, that herald the
approach of day; later the sun sends golden
rays of gladness over the land. The moun-
tains are lower here than our own Wasatch
towers, and the winding stream is spanned
by many bridges.
	How beautiful and dainty is the scene in
the early morning light! The landscape
changes as we near Soda Springs, the
ground assuming a brown and copper col-
ored appearance, and the mountains also
change their garb.
	On we speed again, reaching Montpelier
at 8 a. m. The fresh faces of the travelers
of the day before are weary and faded now
but the heavy eyes visibly brighten as we
reach our journey’s end. Waiting carri-
ages carry us over to Bloomington and our
kinsfolk.
	How glad we are to meet! after all blood
is thicker than water, and these are our
kindred. How manly the boys; how kind
and gracious the girls! “We hope your
stay among us will be pleasant, we are
glad to see you.” How royal the welcome!
Now to visit, renew old friendships, form
new ones and talk of the days gone forever.
	First of all a visit to the graves of our
loved uncle and aunt high up on the west-
ern hillside, overlooking the valley of bus-
tle and life and the homes of their sons and
daughters whom they have left to carry on
their life work. Now all is peace, they
have been faithful unto death, these sturdy
pioneers of Bear Lake Valley and their
name is honored among the sons of men.
“After life’s fitful fever they sleep well.”
	How I loved auntie! I think of her
goodness as I gaze on the cold, gray stone
that marks her resting place. What a kind-
ly warm heart she possessed; her counsels
rise to mind now, “Nay speak no ill, 
and child return good for evil.”
	Then I think of her sorrows, parting


[Column 1]
with all her baby girls save one. Some
sleep under the daises and buttercups of
England where they were born, one came
to them on the stormy Atlantic,a little Sea-
Born, but she only came for a little while;
journeying up the broad, muddy Mississippi
on the way to Zion she passed from earth.
The steam boat landing on the river’s bank,
a little grave is dug and she is laid tender-
ly away. Even the rough boatmen drop
the tear of sympathy on the lonely little
mound, the boat resumes her way and
auntie is bereft of her baby. Yet she too 
is at rest the evening breeze sighing over
the mountain soothes her dreamless sleep.
Near her lies Eliza who lived but twelve
short years, then rested on the journey.
Cousins William and Bailey are near with 
other grandchildren. My lips frame a
prayer. O, auntie are you happy now on
the Echoless Shore with all your little ones?
Cousin Leah is with us, auntie's precious
daughter whom she left a youthful bride.
She has a lovely little daughter now and
two sons.
	And auntie’s sons; they have many sons
and daughters now who love to hear of
their grandparents. And all are doing
well, laboring under the Gospel Banner,
magnifying offices of trust and all in the
faith.
	The shadows have grown long, the full
moon just peeping over the mountains,
where it hangs low in the sky, the Bear
Lake catching and reflecting the beams on
its peaceful bosom, looks like a sea of glass
in the moon’s full glory.
	A quiet Fourth spent on the island far up
in the canon. Friends chatting, a nice
little program carried out, races run amid
the glee of the children, a quiet visit with
Nature in her tangled, leafy dress, then
home again to the town. Visit follows
visit until we have met all our cousins in
their own homes. A pleasant little tea at
President Hart’s by invitation of his ami-
able wife, meeting in friendly converse her
sister, Mrs. Sam Hill of Salt Lake.
	By request meeting with the Relief Soci-
ety and Y. L. M. I. A., the sisters loving
and kind, the time is agreeably spent.
	Then the farewell reunion at the old Dun-
ford home with its wide porches and gen-
erous rooms, now the property of cousin
Oliver C. Dunford where he resides since
his return from his New Zealand mission.
The tables are spread under the trees with
the bounties of earth, around which all
gather large and small. At last goodbye
in the room sanctified by their mother’s
dying breath, which hallows it still and
falls like a benedictiun as one enters there.
Goodbye to Bear Lake and to friends, lov-
ing ones “Goodbye.” Tears fall as the
words are uttered. Farewell, farewell. it
may be for years and it may be forever.
	Midnight at Montpelier, then away again 
into the darkness. Early morning at Cache
Junction then up through lovely Cache
Valley, past Logan where the Temple
clearly shows through the morning mists.
We stop at Whitney and are met by my
two stalwart sons, and soon kiss daughter
Eliza and the baby. Days pass by visiting
loved ones in Preston and Franklin.
	Dinner with Cousin George on his birth-
day made happy by the presence of his
charming wife and family.
	By invitation July 24 finds us at the con-
ference in Gentile Valley. What a pretty
picture! The Bear river winding its way
in and out, dense willows on its banks with

[Column 2]
here and there the homes of the Saints.
Some spots are truly picturesque. After a
night’s rest at Bishop Pond’s hospitable
home we drive to the Grove. The meet-
ings are well attended, about six hundred
Saints present who picnic there between
the meetings, all so happy and generous.
The harvest is bounteous. For miles and
miles on either side of the road the wheat
on dry farms is very heavy and abundant.
Some of the party exclaim:"It is mar-
velous!” If the world could but see such
grain raised without a drop of water, they
would say the day of miracles was not past.
Everywhere it is the same, the earth is
yielding in her strength for the sustenance
of man. July 24 in the forenoon another
Stake of Zion is formed named the Bannock
while the old Bannock is changed to Fre-
mont. Thus Zion spreads and grows.
President Lewis S. Pond is chosen Presi-
dent of the new Stake.
	The afternoon service is devoted to a
Memorial for the Martyrs of the Maine.
The story of the treachery that led to their
death was eloquently told by Prof. Hick-
man of Preston. The Sabbath day and
the theme are affecting. In this solemn
quiet, far away from the busy marts of men,
in this grove of poplar trees, the world
with its treachery seems very far away.
Choice music interspersed with national
airs was rendered by the Oneida Stake
choir under the efficient leadership of Prof.
Edwards. A talented young lady, Miss
Elva, the daughter of Bishop Parkinson of
of Preston, feelingly recited the poem,
“Hispania” under the floating stars and
stripes. A generous sum was given for
the monument
	July 25 impressive addresses by Apostles
Merrill, Grant and Cowley, also President
S. B. Young of the First Quorum of Seven-
ties, and Patriarch John Smith.
	President George C. Parkinson feelingly
bade the Saints goodbye over whom he had
been presiding so long; love was the bur-
den of his words, while God’s blessing was
invoked on them forever.

	The world is full of sad “Good Byes,”
		And often falls the parting tear;
	Our lives are changed, our hearts are numb,
		Old paths diverging here.

	And now farewell to our friends in Gen-
tile Valley, as we turn our faces homeward.
A sense of gratitude wells up in the heart
to God for His love and care over us, and
thanksgiving that we are safely home once
more.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
	July, 1898.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	The regular meeting of the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club was held in the “Ex-
ponent” office, Saturday evening, July 30,
1898. Opening prayer by Phebe C. Young,
after which the secretary called the roll,
responsive patriotic sentiments being given.
	The subject of incorporating the club
was mentioned by the president, but no
action being taken the matter was laid on
the table until next meeting. It was
moved and seconded that the next regular
meeting would not be until September 30,
in the meantime an outing at Saltair would
be given; a motion was made by Dr. E.
R. Shipp that the day for this outing should
be August 17th, providing satisfactory ar-
rangements could be made.


Dr. Ellis R. Shipp then read an interest-
ing and carefully prepared paper on the
Red Cross Society. Discussion followed,
after which Ruth M. Fox kept the mem-
bers deeply interested in her well written
paper on Modern Warfare. An able dis-
cussion followed and the club adjourned.
	AIMEE C. SCHILLER, Asst. Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
		
	MELISSA LOTT SMITH WILLIS.
	On the morning of July 13, we were called upon
to part with one of our dear sisters and co-labor-
ers, Melissa Lott Smith Willis, aged seventy-four
years and six months. Sister Willis was one of
the first teachers in the Re[-]ief Society of Lehi
which was organized in the year 1868, and in
1870 she was appointed president of the same,
which position she faithfully filled until 1890
when she was sustained as one of the counselors
to President Standring, acting in that capacity at
the time of her demise. Being one of the early
settlers in Lehi and of an exceedinely kind and
charitable disposition, Sister Willis was ca led
upon unnumbered times to visit the sick, afflicted
and d ing and administer to their wants both phy-
sically and spiritually, and many can testify that
she has been a friend to them in very deed, al-
ways having words of sympathy and counsel to
give those who were in need. Though called up-
on to pass t rough much trial and tribulation
Sister Wi lis has never been heard to murmur or
complain, but felt to acknowledge the hand of
God in all things, proving faithful through it all.
And although we are called upon to mourn the
loss of a dear friend we know she is at rest and
associati[-]g with those loved ones she so often
talked about in life, the happ[-] meeting she so
longed for where the faithful receive their just
reward, and we feel to say all is well with her.
	Reso[-]ved, That we place these sentiments on
our records, one be sent to the bereaved family,
and one to the ‘'Exponent” for publication.
			REBECCA STANDRING, President,
			HARRIET JACOBS, Counselor,
			M. A. ROBERTS, Secretary.
	
	ELIZABETH BEWICK COLLINGS.
	By request of President Julia P. Lindsay I for-
w rd the following notice of the death of Stake
counselor of the Relief Society, Sister Elizabeth
Collings
	Elizabeth Bewick Col[-]ings was born September
13, 1813, at Sunderland, England. She was mar-
ried to James Collings August 3, 1834, was bap-
t[-]zed into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter
day Saints December 6,1849,at Deptford,Kent, Eng-
land and emigrated to America in 1834. She
crossed the plains in 1860 in Jesse Murphy’s com-
pany, walking most of the way and driving cows
in turn with the other sisters. She arrived in
Salt Lake in August 1860. She and her husband
moved to Logan, Cache Co., in 1862 where they
resided until 1866 when they moved to Paris,
Idaho.
	When the Relief Society was first organized in
Paris, Idaho, in 1868 she was a [-]eacher; when it
was reorganized in 1872 she was chosen counselor
to President Julia P Lindsay, in which position
she labored until a Stake organization was affect-
ed in 1879, when she was called to act as first
counselor to President Julia P. Lindsay in a
Stake capacity, which position she held until her
death which took place on the 14th of June, 1898.
She was the mother of eight children, four of
whom are still li[-]ing, and has thirty-four grand-
children.
	She has taken the “Exponent” for ten [-]ears.
She has done work in the Temple for all of her
people as far back as she could secure their
names. She was devoted to her husband who
survives he[-], and they were like lovers up to the
time of her death.
	She lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint,
and was beloved by all who knew her.
					N. H. ALLRED, Sec.
	St. Charles, Idaho, August 3, 1898


LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall June 18, 1898, President M. I. Horne
presiding. Singing “For the strength of
the hills we bless thee.” Prayer by Siste


[Column 1]
Margaret O. Brown. Singing “Welcome
best of all good meetings." Reading of
minutes unavoidably omitted.
President Horne said she was thankful
She was with us today after the accident
she had met with. As she was falling out
of the carriage she thought about so many
aged people dying by accidents lately. 
Brother Lyman had told her that her time
had not come yet. She was very glad to
have Sister Zina and Sister Kimball with
us and hoped something would be said that
would strengthen us. These meetings
were organized that we might speak one to
another and not be afraid, this is the work
of God, we are his children, we are here to
keep our bodies clean, to be pure and un
spotted from the world. We need to get
spiritual food, live our religion and keep
the commandments of God. 
Sister Brown often thought what bless-
ings we enjoyed and that these meetings
were a great blessing to the sisters, spoke
of her labors in the Temple and said her
heart was full of joy and thankfulness for
her many blessings.
Sister Smith was glad to see Sister
Young and Sister Kimball and hoped that
Sister Horne might recover entirely from
her accident. Said neither she nor her fam-
ly ever went on pleasure excursions on Sun-
day.
Sister Pixton thought we might serve
the Lord one day in the week, we might
prepare our food on Saturday and do less
cooking on Sunday. We should set a good
example for our children and neighbors.
Sister Kimball had once counseled the sis-
ters to take time to read, and she had fol-
lowed the advice and had taken much pleas-
ure in reading papers and Church works.
Sister Louisa Wright bore her testimony
and said that it was. the first time that she
had spoken here.
Sister Steel thought it was time for her
to speak. She never enjoyed other meet-
ings as much as these, we always have a
good spirit, this was the reason she liked to
come. We should do the Lord’s business
first then we will be blest
Sister Ann Hardy said she had never
doubted this work, was a stranger here
from Mexico, she always came here to
meeting when she could. She came to this
valley in early days, had seen the varied
changes the people had gone through.
Bore a faithful testimony.
Sister Zina D. H. Young said it was now
nearly thirty years’ since these meetings
were organized by President Young. We
come here to get spiritual food; we are one;
we have the Holy Ghost with us and we
are learning to appreciate heaven. Our
children know when we attend to our
duties. We should pray to have our mem-
ories strengthened and that we may never
be ungrateful for the blessings we enjoy.
We have to make sacrifices. She had en-
joyed meeting the few present who had
braved the storm to get here.
Sister Sarah Kimball was glad to be
here. Said it was love that prompted us
to bless her and the sisters. The first
grand organization of women was intro-
duced by the Prophet Joseph Smith, the
great blessings that have come to women
have been through him; eventually they
will give credit where credit is due. Spoke
of the organizations of women, of Lucretia
Mott, the present Mothers’ Congress, and
their work. “Have we lived up to our ad-
vantages? I do not often get to meeting,
when I do I go hungry to be fed. We

[Column 2]
often bear the sisters testify of miracles
and things of the past. When we come
here in two weeks cannot we testify of our
desires to do good, of those things we have
done, of healings and other things? not
those things that occurred years ago."
Said she would like to talk longer but did
not wish to trespass on the time.
Sister Elizabeth Stevenson spoke of our
dear aged sisters whose teachings we are
privileged to listen to; of their intelligence,
faith and good works of the prophet turn-
ing the key for woman. She had visited
Sevier and Tooele Stakes and felt thankful
for the good sisters in those places. Bore a
strong testimony and said many good
things.
Sister Horne said that the Gospel com-
prehends everything that is good and true,
we have everything in our religion. We
have women among us who do not wish to
attend spiritual meetings. The women of
Zion should be at the head. As for those
outside organizations they are all right in
their place. We should not desire to
spread out beyond the pale of the Church.
Singing, and benediction by Sister Mary
P. Silver.

Minutes of Ladies’ Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th ward Assembly hall, July
16, 1898, President M. I. Horne presiding.
Singing “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Clara C. Cannon. Singing “ ’Mid
scenes of confusion.” President Horne
laid before the sisters the advisability of
the Society getting up an excursion to
Saltair. Mr. Meakin was present and pre-
liminary arrangements were made for the
affair.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and approved.
President Horne said she was getting
stronger and better every day, felt that it
was one of the miracles of these latter days.
We could enjoy more of these miracles if we
lived for them, for our religion contained
everything both for this life and the here-
after. Spoke of the Mothers’ Congress,
said there was much that was said that was
eloquent. Spoke of the organization of the
Church, quoted a saying of the Prophet
Joseph, also of the Savior in which women
bore a very prominent part. Many of the
sayings of the prophet reminded her of the
Savior’s.
Sister Julia Sampson testified God heard
and answered prayers, even as He had
promised. Exhorted all to be faithful and
humble.
President Horne said she wished to mi-
press upon the people to lift up their hearts
in thanksgiving to God for the victory of
our soldiers, said it is an unknown thing in
history, also that God would preserve our
sons who had gone forth to battle. Felt
that God was in the conflict.
Sister Julia C. Howe spoke of a lecture
she had attended two weeks ago today in
the Logan Temple, in which the subject
was the gathering of the Jews.
Remarks were made by Sisters Mary L.
Morris, Barnes and Bassett. Closing re-
marks were made by President Horne who
said she would like every Society president
to act as a committee so that our excursion
might be a success. Monday August 1,
was decided upon as the day.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by E.T. Webb.

ZINA H. BULL Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Save Your Money!
		And when you get a do[-]lar, deposit it
		with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
		Company, the oldest and largest savings
		bank in Utah.
			Since the establishment of the bank
		we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
		ings accounts.
			The laws of Utah permit married
		women and also children who are minors
		to open savings accounts in their own
		name, subject to their own order. Have
		you such an account? If not, open
		one NOW.
			We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
		TEREST on any amount from one dol-
		lar to thousands, and compute said
		interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.

		WlLFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

	OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD
		(In Effect July 17, 1898.
	Trains arrive and depart at Salt Lake City
daily as follows:
			ARRIVE.
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver, Park City
	and Ogden		3 10 pm
From Helena, Butte, Portland, San
	Francisco. Ogden and intermed-
	ate points			8 55 am
From San Francisco, Cache Valley
	Ogden and intermediate points. 7 15 pm
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City. Denver and Ogden 3 10 am
From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete, Pro-
	vo, Eureka, Mammoth, Silver
	City and intermediate points	6 20 pm
Mixed train from Terminus,
	Tooele and Garfield Beach	4 00 pm

		DEPART
For Chicago, Omaha, Denver, Kan-
	sas City, St. Louis, Ogden and
	Park City			7 00 am
For San Francisco, Ogden, Cache
	Valley and intermediate points. 8 05 am
For Ogden, Denver, Kansas City,
	Omaha. St. Louis, Chicago and
	intermediate points		8 25 pm
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland
	and San Francisco		8 45 pm
For Mercur, Eureka, Silver City,
	Provo, Nephi, Sanpete, Milford,
	Frisco and intermediate points 7 30 am
Mixed train for Garfield Beach,
	Tooele and Terminus		7 45 am
Trains south of Juab run daily except
Sunday.
Daily except Sunday.
	CITY TICKET OFFICE, UNDER MASONIC HALL,
No. 200 West Second South street.
	Telephone No. 250.
	Railroad and Steamship Tickets on sale
to all parts of the world.
	Pullman Palace Car ticket office.
				D. E. BURLEY.
			Gen. Pass. and Ticket Agent
S. W. ECCLES,
		General Traffic Manager.
W. H. BANCROFT.
		Vice-President and Gen. Manager

			R. K. THOMAS
		Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
			SALT LAKE CITY.
			The Leading Retail
				Cash House
			R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
VOL. 27. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1898. No. 7.


CONTENTS:
	The Women R solve. Clara Barton for Wo-
man’s Suffrage. Brig am Young—Eleanor
Fowler. Hannah T. King Remembered—L L.
Greene Richards. We Mothers—L. L. Greene
Richards. A Good Letter—Mary Baxter. Wood-
ruff Stake Conference—Katie Snowbal'. Reflec-
tions of M. E K. R. S. Report. In Memoriam.
Ladies Semi-monthly Meeting.
	EDITORIAL:—Woman’s Vote and Home In-
dustries. Thoughts About War and Peace.
Birthday Party.
	POETRY:—Ceuta—Augusta Joyce C[-]ocheron.
The Conteen’s Work—Martha Shepard Lippinott.


CEUTA.

THE BLOT OF THE EARTH.

When the nation answered Spain
To her cry at last for peace,
There’s something more than the "Maine”
Or the Island’s blest release;
Not conquest, and not glory,
No matter how great they be—
There is another story
For thy Sword O, Liberty!

Where the tropic heat down pours,
And the sea sends up its moan
Forever against the shores
Grim tow’ring cliffs of stone,
’Neath the Fortress guns and walls
And the flag that proudly waves—
Hear! the human cry that calls
From countless living graves!

For the hearts that dared to beat
With the dreams of liberty,
For the lips that dared repeat
The story of the free,
For the hand that dared to raise
The banner that led men on—
Broke the tyrant’s wrath ablaze
And hope—and life—were gone!

Give tears for the famine-slain
And those who fighting fell;
Love’s eyes pitied their pain
And gave them love’s farewell;
The green earth ’neath their feet,
The wide sky over head—
O! death like that were sweet
And restful in their bed. 

But—walled alive in the rock
And bound erect with chains, 
While hate their doom doth mock
As long as life remains;
Then the hands reach up no more
For the water and the bread—
Forever is sea'ed the door
Above the Patriot dead.

For this—did the mothers bear
Fair daughters and brave sons?
O, Freedom! wheresoe’er
Old Spain’s long record runs,
The soul that dared adore
Visions of Liberty,
Hath won the hope, no more,
And died in shame for Thee!

Does America forget
The cruel Bastile’s fall,
And how brave LaFayette
From the broken, burning wall
Brought forth the great iron key,
Proud France’s blood stained one;
And sent it across the sea
To our great Washington?


Ah! may the Fortress wa[-]ls
	Of Ceuta be broken down,
While tyranny deeper falls 
	Till none shall bow to the crown.
May shackle and chain and cell
	Yield forth to Liberty,
And our children live to tell—
	America keeps the Key!
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Salt Lake City, August, 1898.


THE WOMEN RESOLVE.
	The Woman's Suffrage Association of
Utah county held a meeting August 30, in
Provo. About forty or fifty ladies were in
attendance, four towns outside of Provo
being represented, and regrets were received
from Springville ladies, who were unable
to be present on account of the funeral of
Mrs. Geo. Gifford. The following resolu-
tions were adopted:
	Whereas, An informal understanding has
been sought to be effected between the two
political parties eliminating women from
the state and county tickets at the next
election; and
	Whereas women, have been named as
a weakness upon the ticket and charged
with lacking executive ability and being
the enemy of women refusing to vote for
them, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we the suffragists of
Utah county, in convention assembled, in
view of these publications and utterances of
the press, repudiate the sentiments attri-
buted to women and protest against the
measures proposed.
	Resolved, That we demand a more com-
plete and just recognition and representa-
tion in some measure adequate to the num-
ber of votes which we cast.
	Resolved, That heretofore in consequence
of women relying upon the honor of their
parties for proper and just recognition and
representation, have desisted from active
work for the advancement of women, out-
side of political parties, and whereas we
have been charged with being the enemy
of our own sex, we hereby pledge ourselves
to refute such charges by active work and
public expression, believing that eternal
vigilance is the price of liberty; and be it
further
	Resolved, That we are ready to meet the
official records of women holding office now
provided the records of men elected at the
same time be as closely scanned and placed
parallel.


[Column 1]
CLARA BARTON FOR WOMAN’S
SUFFRAGE.

Clara Barton appealed to the veterans to
vote for woman’s suffrage, many years ago
as follows:
When you were weak and I was strong,
I toiled for you. Now you are strong and
 I am weak. Because of my work for you
ask your aid. I ask the ballot for my-
self and my sex. As I stood by you, I
pray you stand by me and mine.

[Column 2]
At the Annual Festival of the New Eng-
land Woman Suffrage Association, in
Music Hall, Boston, May 1888, Miss Bar-
ton, then, as now, president of the Red
Cross, said in part:

Mrs. President, Gentlemen and Ladies:

It was a surprise to me that my opinions
either way should be held of sufficient im-
portance to be mentioned. What difference
could it make to others what I approved or
disapproved, believed or disbelieved in?
But as I reflected upon it, it did occur to
me that perhaps it ought to be of sufficient
importance to myself to induce me to take
the opportunity which offers at this mo-
ment, to make my record a trifle more clear
if possible, and this will require very little
time.
I believe I must have been born be-
lieving in the full right of woman to all
the privileges and positions which nature
and justice accord to her in common with
other human beings. Perfectly equal
rights—human rights. There was never
any question in my mind in regard to this.
I did not purchase my freedom with a price;
was born free, and when as a younger
woman I heard the subject discussed, it
seemed simply ridiculous that any sensible,
rational person should question it. And
when later the phase of woman's right to
suffrage came up, it was to me only a part
of the whole, just as natural, just as right,
and just as certain to take place.
And whenever I have been urged, as a
petitioner, to ask for this privilege for wo-
man a kind of dazed, bewildered feeling has
come over me.
Of whom should I ask this privilege?
Who possessed the right to confer it? Who
had greater right than woman herself?
Was it man, and if so where did he get it ?
Who conferred it upon him ? He depended
upon woman for his being, his very exist-
ence, nurture and rearing. More fitting
that she should have conferred it upon him.
Was it governments? What were they
but the voice of the people? What gave
them their power? Was it divinely con-
ferred? Alas! no; or they would have
been better, purer, more just and stable.
Was it force of arms-war? Who furn-
ished the warriors? Who but the mothers?
Who reared the sons and taught that liberty
and their country were worth their blood?
Who gave them up, wept their fall, nursed
them in suffering and mourned them dead?
Was it labor? Women have always, as
a rule, worked harder than men.
Was it capital ? Woman has furnished
her share up to the present hour. Who
then can give her the right, and on what
basis? Who can withhold it ?
Any attempt on my part to elaborate up-
on the arguments so ably and fully made
by the honored and veteran thinkers and
orators about me—men and women who
have taught the world in the science of the
principles they proclaim, would be simply
piesumption, and but for one circumstance
I should not occupy the little moment
which I propose to do, but would at once


give way to our honored guests from other
lands.
	But within the last few days I have ob-
served two press notices of myself contain-
ing statements which to persons unaccus-
tomed to the marvelous elasticity of the
American press, might seem difficult to rec-
oncile. One notice was to the effect that
“Miss Clara Barton, who is announced to
be present at the woman’s suffrage conven-
tion at Boston, is a lady of foreign birth
but a firm believer in woman’s rights, and
a pronounced suffragist.” The other said
that “It is a significant sign of the broad-
ening of the woman question, that Miss
Clara Barton is announced among the
speakers of the Boston Suffrage Convention,
as she is known to be very conservative, if
not actually opposed to woman suffrage.”
	The first thing that interested me was the
fact that I had lost my nativity. I could
not clearly understand how I did it, but the
shock was softened somewhat by remember-
ing that a few days previous a Philadelphia
reporter complimented me by saying that I
“presided over a certain meeting ably and
gracefully, and spoke with very little ac-
cent.”
	In regard to my nationality, I was born
in the old Huguenot town of Oxford, Mass., 
U. S. A.  My father and mother were born
there. My grandfathers and grandmothers,
with two exceptions, were born, lived, 
died and were buried there.
	There is, once in a while, a monarch 
who denies the right of man to place a crown
upon his head. Only the Great Jehovah
can crown and anoint him for his work, and
he reaches out, takes the crown and places
it upon his head with his own hand. I sus-
pect that this is in effect what woman is doing 
today. Virtually there is no one to give her
the right to govern herself, as men govern 
themselves by self-made and self-approved
laws of the land. But in one way or anoth-
er, sooner or later, she is coming to it.
And the number of thoughtful and right-
minded men who will oppose, will be much
smaller than we think; and when it is really 
an accomplished fact, all will wonder, as I 
have done, what the question ever was.
	—Woman’s Journal.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
BRIGHAM YOUNG.
	One of the noblest men who has lived
since the time of Jesus Christ is our own
great leader, Brigham Young. He and
Joseph Smith were two of the greatest
and purest characters that had lived for
years. Had it not been for Brigham
Young it is quite likely that many more of
the Saints would have been persecuted and
killed; but when he gave the word and
led the way westward, many were soon
ready to take it up and follow their glorious
and inspired leader. It was he who was in-
spired to stop in the Salt Lake valley, and
under his supervision the energetic pioneers
went to work and the land was made “to
blossom as the rose."
	Nor did he stop here, he and his people
built up a State fabric with three hundred
cities and settlements, networked with rail-
roads and the electric telegraph; then it was
that his name rang throughout America and
echoed in Europe as “the Moses of the
latter days,” and the Mormon people were
likened to the children of Israel in the
wilderness. This is a true comparison for
he led them from their persecuters and took
them into a land of promise, as Moses did

[Column 2]
the children of Israel and always gave the
praise and honor to God.
	Not only was he loyal to his God, but
he was also loyal to the government. At
his request the stars and stripes were set
waving from Ensign Peak when the
pioneers first entered the valley. He was
also ready to form the Battalion when
called upon, and a more loyal band never
fought for their country’s cause than those
under the Mormon Battalion. Although
this man was oppressed by the government
no man, I dare say, ever heard him de-
nounce it for this. Instead his desire was
for the preservation and upbuilding of his
country.
	How fitting is it that a monument has
been erected in his memory and placed in
the most prominent place in Salt Lake
City, near the place where he stuck his
staff in the ground and said: “Here shall
we build the temple of our God.” How
our little hearts thrilled as we passed this
beautitul monument and cast our flowers
as tokens of love on the pedestal amid the
cheers of the gazing multitude, during the
recent Pioneer Jubilee.
	But did our great prophet care for the
little children while he was on earth? In-
deed he did, and he was a great lover of
them too. Through the kindness of my
beloved president I had the pleasure of
reading one of his last addresses to the
children. It was delivered to the Sunday
School children in the new Tabernacle,
Salt Lake City, July 24, 1877, and it was
published in the Deseret News, August 8,
1877. It impresses one with such beauti-
ful sentiments that I should like all to
hear it, but it is too long to rewrite here.
In the first part of the sermon he explained
to them why they were born in this far off
land, then he follows with some beautiful
counsel. He told them to remember
this counsel, observe it, and carry it out
throughout their lives.
	He begins this counsel by instructing
them in regard to the first commandments,
and of the nature of the personages of God
and Jesus Christ. Then he says: “Obey
your parents and learn the ways of the
Lord in your youth, and continue therein
all the days of your life that you may be
prepared for that higher state of glory that
awaits the faithful children of our God.”
He next blessed the children and expressed
his love for them in the following words:
“I say to all, God bless you my children,
my little ones. I love you, I am a great
lover of children and innocence and purity,
and I am a hater of iniquity just as much
so as the Lord, and perhaps more than I
should be.”
	His sermon was concluded by the follow-
ing remarks: “Spend the Sabbath day
prudently in the love and fear of God. Try
to adopt in your whole lives that code of
morals which our religion teaches and
which we urge upon the people. God
bless you. Amen.”
	So how dearly should we as children of
God, love a leader who has loved and done
so much for us; for truly Brigham Young
was a wise, good and honest man.
	ELEANOR FOWLER, aged ten years.
Read at the Mill Creek ward Primary
annual meeting, June 1, 1898.


It is not enough to have great qualities;
we must also have the management of them.
—Rochefoucauld.


HANNAH T. KING REMEMBERED.
A very enjoyable little meeting was held
in memory of Sister H. T. King on the
afternoon of August 15, 1898.
	The quiet, pleasant home of Sister Sarah
M. Kimball was the place selected for the
gathering. As the affair was suddenly
thought of and hastily arranged, but a
small matter was anticipated and made of
it. Only a few of the intimate friends and
warm admirers of Sister King could be
called in, previous engagements and ab-
sence from the city preventing the atten-
dance of quite a number who would other-
wise have been present.
The conversation carried on informally
was largely of a religious and spiritual
character, Sisters Zina D. H. Young and
S.M. Kimball giving many gems of wis-
dom, strength, comfort and encouragement
to the younger participants.
Reminiscences of the days of the proph-
ets, Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, Heber
C. Kimball and others of their associates, in
connection with memoirs from the life of
Sister King and quotations from her in-
spired writings all contributed to the form-
ing of a beautiful memorial offering to the
gifted lady in whose honor the meeting
was called.
A suitable repast was daintily served by
Misses Lizzie Kimball and Miss Granger,
(Sister Kimball’s granddaughter,)and much
enjoyed by the company.
Although in her eightieth year and deli-
cate in health, physically, Sister Sarah M.
Kimball’s mind and memory are wonder-
fully acute and active, and her colloquial
powers such as to ensure a rich treat and
valuable points of instruction in some lines,
to any one who may have the happiness to
spend a half hour in her presence. Among
those who were thus favored and who con-
tributed to the pleasure of the occasion on
the day above mentioned, were Sisters John
Alford, Harriet T. Badger, Lydia D. Alder,
Persis Y. Richards, Mary Gray and L. L.
Greene Richards.

L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


I think women capable of a great deal
more work than they have been accustomed
to in times past. If overwork sometimes
leads them to disease, it is morally more
wholesome to work into it than to lounge
into it.—Sir Spencer Wells.
	Mrs. Meynell, the poet, declines to draw
a mental line between men and women.
“It is not so much a question of men and
women,” she says, “as of individuals.
Many women are wofully lacking in obser-
vation and decidedly dull in perception
while, on the other hand, many men fail
miserably in reasoning power, and many
women excel in it.” Mrs. Meynell is a
suffragist.
	Lady Huggins is as gifted an astronomer
as was Caroline Herschel or Maria Mitchel.
It was her profound and self-acquired
knowledge of this science that attracted to
the unassuming Irish lady the brilliant
astronomer, Sir William Huggins. Lady
Huggins has not sought favor for herself
but is content to be her husband’s assistant,
and every night she works in their observa-
tory by his side. To her is due a share of
the honor acheived by Sir William for his
discovery by means of the spectroscope, of
the composition of the heavenly bodies.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE CANTEEN’S WORK.

My boy! my boy! and is it thus,
Thou to thy mother hast come back,
To thus disgrace thyself and her?
A drunkard and disorderly,
Thou who were e'er thy mother's pride.
O, God! it surely cannot be!
My boy cannot be so debased;
For he was ever pure and brave
And never drank or smoked or swore,

When just a few short months ago,
To serve his country, he left me,
Declaring he would bravely fight
For God and for humanity.
This drunken youth, is it my boy ?
My boy who was so pure and true,
It surely, surely cannot be,
My country e’er would send him thus
Back to his mother’s arms again.
He, for his country went to fight,
And would she tempt him go astray.
And let canteens destroy his soul,
When her protection I should trust,
And give my boy into her care?
Could she betray my confidence
And not look after my dear boy,
When from my care I let him go
To honor and to serve her name?
When mother’s gave their sons to her
Pure, innocent and free from shame,
Would she allow temptations stand
In places where our youth would go?
Would she not try to save their souls,
When human lives they offered her,
To help their country win her cause?
How could such degradation be,
If she protected as she should?
And oh! what misery may come
From her allowing careless ways
To those whose mothers are not near,
To shield their boys from Satan’s wiles.
What sorrow, for the after years,
One lost soul, in a home, may bring,
Far worse than many dear lives lost
In honoring their country’s name;
They are not lost, but only gone
To wait for us at heaven’s gate;
But the lost soul, what misery
‘Twill cause the mother’s heart to feel,
What disappointed hopes and grief
it brings to every one that loved.
How could a country ask for men
And send back drunkards in their place?
O, Father! comfort mother’s hearts
That have been broken as mine is,
He was my only, dear, sweet child,
Now worse than childless I shall be.
Would for his country’s sake he’d died,
And onward sped his soul to God,
To wait till I should be called home,
And meet him in the spirit land.
But now it breaks my heart to think
His soul forever may be lost.
Oh! Father, pray reclaim him yet,
His heart, I know, cannot be bad,
’Tis only vile temptation’s rule
That drags his soul down in the mire,
Oh! strengthen, shield him with thy arm,
That ever has the power to save.
Oh!  hear his mother’s earnest prayer
And save my boy from moral death. 

MARTH SHEPARD LIPPINCOTT.
Moorestown, N. J.


[Column 1]
WE MOTHERS.

II.
	Where are the boys when the Curfew
rings? Some of the children who should
be in bed a few moments after the sounding
of the curfew, steal out of somewhere and

[Column 2]
go prowling about, as if there could be
pleasure in doing wrong by breaking a law.
	Where are the mothers of such children?
Is it possible that any mother can be so
tired as to go to bed and to sleep while her
child is out in the world, she knows not
where, when he should be safely tucked in
bed ere she retired to her rest? There is a
way some mothers have of getting their
children to come home when they do not
know where to look for them, or are unable
to go in search of them.
	The mother prays that the good angel
attendant upon her child may direct him
home, and in a very short time the child is
with her. She cannot scold him then.
She is too thankful to her Father to allow
herself to find fault with His child and her
own. Instead of reproaches she gives the
child her confidence. Tells him how she 
has been praying for him to be reminded
by his guardian angel that he ought to be
at home. Tells him, tearfully perhaps, of
the anxiety she has felt for him and asks
him pathetically if he will not try in future
not to make her feel so worried and unhap-
py. He promises solemnly that he will try
to make her feel happy instead of miserable.
He does try for a long time after that to
keep his promise, and succeeds wonderfully
well. But after a while he forgets or is too
strongly tempted, and he stays out too late
again.
	This time the mother goes and hunts him
up. Finding him in the company of sever-
al others who ought like her own son to be
home, she does not humiliate and antagon-
ize him by telling him before his play-
fellows what an ungrateful, naughty boy
he is getting to be; or give the rebellious
“enemy of his soul” an occasion to nab
him and cause him to fling back vicious
words at her, for commanding him to
“Take himself home at once!” She stands
by a moment, watching the game if it is
continued, or listens if any one speaks;
then tells the group what o’clock it is, and
asks her son to say good night to his com-
rades and go home with her. He hesitates
but a moment, and then cheerfully com-
plies with his mother’s request. On the
way home the mother and son counsel
together; deeper impressions are fixed upon
the boy’s mind than formerly; he makes
more binding promises than before, to be
still longer and more conscientiously kept.
	A few such lessons suffice to keep the
boy at least within the purview of the
mother’s knowledge, until he reaches a
stage of self control, or self responsibility,
which relieves her in a measure of the
greater responsibility she has hitherto felt
the weight of too keenly for her own com-
fort. We mothers get paid for watching
our boys and praying for them, if we get
paid for anything we undertake in life.
	Is there another subject upon which we
can exchange ideas, opinions and experi-
ences with so much interest and profit as
the rearing of our children? What if we
do have (what our mothers had not) the
benefits of the Kindergarten, Sunday School,
Primary and Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation? Our children should still pass a
portion of their time, perhaps a half of it,
other than when they are asleep, at home
with their mothers.
	And we mothers, if love does not prompt
us to see to it that the time our children
spend with us is as pleasantly and usefully
spent as any other portion of their lives, a
sense of duty should urge us on to exerting

[Column 3]
ourselves to the end that we shall be the 
most suitable companions that our children
can find.
	We need not be always correcting or
even instructing our children when they
are in our presence, in order to prove our-
selves capable mothers. At least, much
that may be necessary for us to say to
them, or require of them, need not be of-
fered in the form of reproof or instruction.
We may often play, sing, talk, read and
laugh with our little ones, and find delight-
ful and healthful amusement in these
things, for ourselves as well as for them.
And some amusement is necessary for all.
	No class of beings in the world need
more to keep what God loves, “cheerful
hearts and glad countenances,” than do we
mothers.
			L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


A GOOD LETTER.

Dear Sister Wells:
	Please find enclosed one dollar subscrip-
tion for the present volume of the “Expon-
ent,” always a welcome visitor, to me it
contains many rich gems of sublime thought
and inspiration. I delight to read and know
what the sisters of this and other lands are
doing, their methods and manner of con-
ducting their meetings, also the testimon-
es of the handmaids of the Lord in this dis-
pensation, truly the progressiveness of the
work of our Heavenly Father in this direc-
tion is marvelous in our eyes and we can
truly say with Sister Woodmansee,

“Oh blest was the day when the prophet and
	seer
Who stands at the head of this last dispens[-]tion,
Inspired from above by the Father of love,
Formed the daughters of Zion’s great organiza-
	tion
Its purpose indeed, is to comfort and feed
The honest and poor in distress and in need,
Oh the daughters of Zion, the friends of the poor
Are examples of faith, hope and charity pure.”

	I am very much pleased with Sister Han-
nah Sorensen’s letter and her success as a
participant in the Mothers’ Congress of
Motherhood, a very important and needful
education.
	In reading the lines of the Sable Messen- 
ger in the present issue, by Sister Lu Dal-
ton, it brought forcibly tho’ sadly to
mind an incident in my own experience.
	I had a danghter taken from me aged,
eighteen and a half years, after a long sick-
ness we talked of many things concerning
the spirit world, she was a brave, noble
girl and the kind, encouraging words she
spoke to me are too sacred to be drawn forth
from the sacred recesses of a mother’s heart.
But she said to me, “Mother there is one
thing I don’t like to die for and that is I
will have no mother there.” I referred her
to Sister Eliza’s hymn and also reminded
her that her father had gone before her
when she was a little child and would no
doubt be waiting to embrace her with out-
stretched arms; this filled her soul with
peace.
	There is no death, it is only a change to
a brighter, holier sphere where we meet the
loved ones gone before, truly life and im-
mortality has been brought to life through
the Gospel revealed to Joseph Smith in this
dispensation.
					MARY BAXTER. 
	Spanish Fork, August 17, 1898.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY SEPTEMBTR 1, 1898.


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S VOTE AND HOME
INDUSTRIES.

	In view of the momentous questions now
pending one cannot help wondering if the
women of this State are aware of the great
opportunity open before them in having
equal suffrage. Do they realize the re-
sponsibility for good or ill that this precious
boon has given them? They are undoubt-
edly half the voting population of the entire
State; were they to unite on any proposi-
tion they could carry it, there is not a doubt.
As soon as anything goes wrong it is
noticable how quick people are ready to say
“the women did it.” Therefore it would
seem “the women” must study carefully
the questions of the day, and particularly
the needs of their own locality, and the new
conditions that have come through state-
hood, and its relations to the general
government under which they live and of
which the people profess to be so proud.
There are many problems confronting the
people today and they must be taken
seriously. Women have the ballot in these
intermountain states and the women in
other parts of the Republic, not so highly
favored, expect something of this privi-
lege granted to a few. Something that
will help them; a brilliant example of
superior wisdom in dealing with important
matters; we in Utah are being watched in
the course we pursue with this great gift
bestowed upon us; we are like a light set
on a hill, to give light to those around,
therefore the women of Utah must take
heed to their ways, and should make a rec-
ord now in this coming campaign that they
will be proud of, and that will help woman-
kind everywhere the world over.
	There is always counsel to be obtained
for those who are at sea upon subjects that
seem doubtful, and the scripture tells us,
“Where there is no counsel the people fall;
but in the multitude of counselors there is
safety.” Those who have labored for
years to secure the ballot and equal rights
for women are not likely to rest satisfied,
when their claims to recognition are not
conceded, and will by such methods as
seem proper and available declare their
equality in matters that pertain to their
welfare as citizens.
	Men have so long held supremacy in the
political world that it is perhaps difficult for
them to allow woman her share, and even
a very small proportion appears to be given
grudgingly, and where common courtesy
would suggest at least a semblance of will-

[Column 2]
ingness to do her justice even that has been
found wanting in certain places. Some
men seem to forget that women helped to
found this State, that for a number of years
they had the ballot, and that those who
took part in primaries and conventions in
those days learned a few lessons in regard
to the manipulation of matters of public
weal.
	Another day has dawned on Utah and
under different circumstances, and women
have been entrusted with sacred rights and
privileges in the matter of government,
and it is their imperative duty to perform
their part well that no blame shall attach to
them through blundering at a time when
the well-being and prosperity of the com-
munity is at stake.
	One of the most important considerations
in the coming campaign is and should be
the fostering of and protecting home indus-
tries upon which the future of the people
and the State itself depends. Women can-
not afford to ignore this question, it lies
near their hearts. Homes and happiness,
all that makes life sweet rests upon the de-
velopment of that which is within our own
borders. The Lord has given this wonder-
ful land to the people within its boundaries
to make fertile and bring forth from its
soil an abundance for themselves and their
children, and they should not trifle with
such benefits. By dint of labor, economy
and thrift some industries have been estab
lished that still need the fostering care of
the State, others need to be founded to pro-
mote still greater prosperity and give more
opportunities for labor and profit. One
which appeals most direct to the women of
Utah is the silk industry, and too much
cannot be said on the subject nor the en-
couragement of it too strongly urged. Agi-
tate it everywhere until the people awaken
to its importance sufficiently to comprehend
the bearing it would have upon the pros-
perity of the country. Here and there and
at different times women have made persis-
tent efforts, and worked against obstacles
that seemed insurmountable, and have
proven what a united effort could accom-
plish with some protection and necessary
aid, but now with the ballot in their own
hands, and the coast clear, to elect men and
women to places of trust who will consider
home industries, the paramount issue for
Utah, what can be said if they fail? How
will they condemn their own course if they
ignore this weighty matter upon which so
much depends of labor and help for the
many idle hands, who must have food and
raiment and habitations to dwell in.


[Column 1]
THOUGHTS ABOUT WAR AND
PEACE.

	The war is over practically so the word
goes forth over the wires, through the
press dispatches, and from ocean to ocean
the good news flashes. If only all wars
were over, all fighting and bloodshed and
conflicts ended or a bright prospect of such
a time in the near future, then indeed there
would be cause for rejoicing; but while the
terrible consequences of war are so apparent
there cannot be much real gladness, and it
will be long before the country settles down
again to its former quietude and men who
took part in the affairs resume their every
day work in life. Many never can take
the same places, because disabled either
through wounds or the effects of exposure

[Column 2]
or serious illness. And still others have
gone to an untimely grave, and yielded up
willingly their lives for their country’s
honor, and the cause of liberty for human-
ity. O, that there were some better way to
lift the down-trodden and let the oppressed
go free!
	Must it always be by the sacrifice of
human life, that nations rise to greater
things, to liberty, and the higher enlighten-
ment? Let us hope that men may find a
better way, that by the light that has come
into the world a firmer bond of brother-
hood may yet be established, and even
nations as well as individuals come to the
understanding and practice of “the golden
rule” our Savior left for all to follow.
When the time shall come which Emerson
voices, then indeed happiness may largely
be achieved.

“Be just at home; then write your scroll
	Of honor o’er the sea,
And bid the broad Atlantic roll,
	A ferry of the free.”

	Everything has had to wait while the
war went on; and now more battleships are
to be built and greater preparations made
for wars to come instead of looking forward
to a reign of peace. Money must conse-
quently be appropriated and the country
must be taxed to pay interest on bonds.
	The outlook is not a cheerful one except
to those who trust implicitly in an over-
ruling Providence, and look with prophetic
intuition into the future knowing He who
reigns on high will bring to pass in His
own good time all He has promised through
His servants.
	The Utah Volunteers have made a good
record with scarcely an exception. Some
have distinguished themselves nobly and
have been given higher rank, and all de-
serve appreciation and admiration from the
folks at home, for at the best it has been
hard enough. Some tales of the wounded
the suffering and hungry are very pathetic.
On the 23rd of August when the wife of
Gen. Gordon was leaving Jacksonville for
Savannah she says, “A Fernandina train
arrived and sick soldiers were crowded into
the Pulman cars,” no surgeon and no
nurses had been sent along with them, one
man died soon after the train started, anoth-
er was delirious from fever and a third in
the last stages of typhoid, developed severe
hemorrages. A physician on the train was
summoned and passangers gave up their
places in the sleeping cars to the soldiers,
who were weak and some of them nearly
famished. Mrs. Gordon obtained from the
buffet all the milk, brandy and ice and set
about nursing the prostrated soldiers; she
prepared milk punch and iced milk and
many of them revived. “The men be-
longed to Co. C. 157th. Indiana Infantry,
and were in charge of Captain Salisbury
who did everything in his power to aid
them. While the medical department of
the army fails to provide for our suffering
soldiers American women like Mrs. Gordon
come to the rescue.”
	This is only one instance but there are
many similar ones and the Relief work done
by Miss Barton and her Red Cross associates
is something that American women may
well be proud of. Our own Lieut. B. H.
Wells tells of Miss Barton’s coming among
the wounded at Santiago and with her own
hands making the gruel and beef tea and
giving it to the wounded soldiers.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	Monday, August 8, was the birthday of
the President of the Woman’s Press Club,
Dr. Romania B. Pratt, and the members of
the club planned a surprise for the auspi-
cious occasion. Dr. Pratt is a great favor-
te with her associates not only in the Press
Club but in all places because of her many
fine qualities of head and heart, and withal
a genial manner. Her presence in the sick
room is like a healing balm to the suffering
and this in itself is a boon worth possessing.
	There were not many attended the party
as the club had adjourned previously and a
number were absent from the city; but
there was a sufficient number of brilliant
conversationalists to make the informal
party enjoyable. The ladies of the club
presented their president with a beautiful
picture, (medalion) the subject “Queen
Louise Among Her People,” representing
philanthropy, an appropriate gift for the
doctor. Many fervent congratulations and
good wishes for happy returns of the day,
etc., were showered upon the amiable
president, and gifts of flowers, bouquets of
roses, carnations and other fragrant floral
offerings came in abundance as tributes of
esteem and affection.
	During the evening a discussion of the
most eminent woman (now living) in the
United States was entered into and many
prominent in good works were mentioned,
but finally two who seemed to be the most
conspicuous and eminent in the largest
field of uplifting and greatest achievements
were decided upon, Susan B. Anthony and
Clara Barton, the voting was almost a trib-
ute, Miss Anthony after all having the larg-
er number of votes.
	A delicious repast was delicately served
to the guests, and the ladies and gentlemen
present felt it had been a most delightful
evening.


[Column 1]
WOODRUFF STAKE CONFERENCE.	

SISTERS’ FIRST VISIT. 
Editor “Exponent:”
	Dear Sister:—Thinking that a few words
concerning our first visit as Stake Presi-
dency of the Relief Society in the Wood-
ruff Stake of Zion would be of interest to
the readers of the “Woman’s Exponent.” I
thought I would give a short account.
	President Lucy Grant, First Counselor
Katie Snowball, Second Counselor Alice
Jackson. We left Randolph Wednesday
morning, August 3, in company with Sis-
ter Elizabeth Brough with a full determina-
tion, with the aid and assistance of our
Heavenly Father, to fulfill the call which
had been made on us. We visit with the
sisters of the Argyle ward at 10 a. m. the
same day. We found the Association in
good running order and a general good feel-
ing existing among the sisters of that ward.
They all felt like pressing forward in the
good work they were engaged in, and felt
like giving those placed over them their
faith and prayers. After enjoying the hos-
pitality of one of the sisters of that ward we
continued our journey into Woodruff and
occupied a couple of hours of the afternoon
with the good sisters of that ward, we also
had the pleasure of having with us two of
the Stake Presidency, President John M.
Baxter and First Counselor Byron Sessions,
also Bishop Peter McKennon of the ward.

[Column 2]
We had the pleasure of hearing these breth-
ren speak, giving some excellent instruction
to the mothers of the Latter-day Saints, en-
couraging them to have a watch care over
their children and to teach them how to
grow up good and useful men and women
in the Church and kingdom of God. We re-
mained with the sisters of Woodruff ward
that night.
	Thursday morning, August 4, we held
meeting in Almy at 10 a. m. We felt de-
lighted with the kind, sisterly feeling that
existed among the sisters in the little town
of Almy. We enjoyed ourselves very
much in speaking to each other and listen-
ing to the testimonies of the sisters, relating
instances where God had poured His spirit
down upon them and their families in times
of need; and how welcome we were made
by all, we felt we had their aid and assist-
ance in our travels. We remained with the
sisters until next morning when we jour-
neyed to Evanston to meet with the sisters
there at 10 a. m., August 5. We were
greeted by the sisters of that ward with
much kindness and sisterly love, when we
met them we felt as though we had been
acquainted for years, there was such a con-
genial spirit existing. We also had the
pleasure of having present with us the
second counselor to the president of their
Stake, Charles Kingston. He rendered his
assistance to us by occupying a portion of
the time in our meeting. Spoke of the
young people of one religion marrying into
another; encouraged the sisters and moth-
ers to be very careful whom their daughters
keep company with. An excellent time
was had in that meeting. On account of
there being a meeting for the Stake officers
on Saturday, August 6, at 11 a m., we re-
mained in Evanston that night and went
and took supper, which had been so well
prepared, having been invited to go out to
one of the sisters to spend the evening.
After supper had been cleared away we
started on our way to the sisters where we
were to spend the evening. On arriving
we did not find the expected guests there,
but shortly the sister of the house said if it
was agreeable with us we would walk
down to the other sisters and find out what
was the cause of their delay. Of course we
gladly accepted the invitation, when we ar-
rived there we found the house all dark and
apparently no one stirring. This sister
who accompanied us there said we would
go in and wake them up. Just as she
opened the door and we were ready to step
in the room was lighted up very brightly
and the word “surprise” was ringing in
our ears from all sides. For a moment we
could not think what was going on, but
in a few moments when we had gathered
our minds together again we realized this
had all been planned before, and here we
were among our brethren and sisters to par-
take of their kindness, and we can say we
enjoyed ourselves inexpressibly well. We
were kindly entertained by the brethren
and sisters with their nice singing, reciting
and speeches, also were treated with ice
cream and cake. I can say for myself and
in behalf of my other sisters, that I never
had a more enjoyable time in my life. We
felt such a good influence around us, and
the many blessings that were called down
upon us that evening, we felt as though we
were and had been one with them for years,
as I have stated before. We went to the
homes of some of the sisters that evening
with the feeling of God bless you all that

[Column 3]
we may be associated from time to time and
have the spirit of our Heavenly Father to
guide us, in the straight and narrow way.
	Next morning, Saturday, August 6, we
attended the Stake officers meeting at 11 a.
m., and listened to the fatherly counsel
given by our Stake President J. M. Baxter
and First Counselor Byron Sessions. After
meeting was closed and we had partaken of
dinner at the home of one of our beloved
sisters, we journeyed home, leaving the
blessings of our Heavenly Father upon the
branches of the Relief Society of this Stake
and feeling that we had been blessed of the
Lord, that He had been present with us
during our visit. And we pray that the
Lord will bless the Relief Society of this
Stake with wisdom, knowledge and power
that we may do much good here upon the
earth in rolling on the great and glorious
work, is the wish of
			Your sister in the Gospel, 
					KATIE SNOWBALL.


REFLECTIONS OF M. E. K. 
	I desire to ask a simple question of those
who believe that Joseph Smith was a true
prophet of God, not only believe but have
a knowledge that his message was an im-
portant one, because it teaches that earnest-
ness of soul and sincerity of heart is re-
quired of us to see this subject in its own
true light; for the Lord will give His spirit
to those who ardently desire to do His will.
Then we can know God by the spirit of
God, without it we cannot because we are
so much contaminated by the spirit of the
lower world and we are required to cleanse
our hearts and make them fit temples for
this good spirit. Good common sense will
teach us this lesson, for the word of God
through His Apostle Peter is, “Be ye pure
for I am pure; be ye holy for I am holy.”
And as He does not look upon sin with the
least degree of allowance we must be pure
before we approach Him; then we can
come to Him in a simple, childlike manner
for this is as he requires us to come. Then
He will be a father in very deed, yes, to
our hearts content. As you will find in
the book of Alma, chapter 32, Book of Mor-
mon, where He compares the word with a
seed and says, “Let this seed be planted in
your hearts, if ye do not cast it out by your
unbelief behold it beginneth to swell and
as ye feel these swelling emotions ye begin
to say it must be a good seed for it begin-
neth to enlarge my soul and enlighten my
understanding, yea it is delicious to me.
Now does not this increase your faith?
Yea, yet it has not grown up to be a per-
fect knowledge. And now behold ye
know it is a good seed, for every seed bring-
eth forth its own likeness. Now you must
not lay aside your faith for ye have only exer-
cised your faith to plant the seed to know
if it is good. Now if ye will nourish it
with much care it will get root and grow
up and bring forth the fruit. But if ye neg-
lect the tree behold when the sun cometh
and scattereth it because it hath no root, it
withers away and ye cast it out.
	“Now this was not because the seed was
not good, neither is it because the fruit
thereof is not desirable, but it is because
your ground is barren, and ye will not
nourish the tree, therefore ye cannot have
the fruit thereof. And thus if ye will not
nourish the word, looking forward with an
eye of faith to the fruit thereof ye can never


pluck of the fruit of the tree of life. But if
ye will nourish the word, yea nourish the
tree as it beginneth to grow by your faith
with great diligence and patience, looking
forward to the fruit thereof, it shall take
root, and behold it shall be a tree, spring-
ing up into everlasting life. And because
of your diligence and faith and your pati-
ence with the word in nourishing it that it
may take root in you, behold by and by ye
shall pluck the fruit thereof which is most
precious, which is sweet above all that is
sweet and which is white above all that is
white, yea and pure above all that is pure;
and ye shall feast upon this fruit even until
ye are filled that ye hunger not, neither
shall ye thirst Then my brethren ye shall
reap the reward of your faith, your diligence,
your patience and long suffering waiting
for the tree to bring forth fruit unto you.”
	This closes the chapter written by Alma,
who was the son of Alma and at one time a
bad boy until an angel appeared to him
saying, “If you will destroy yourself seek
not to destroy the church of God.” This
put a stop to his wilful career as it did St.
Paul’s, he then sought righteousness and
also taught it to others. We read in chap-
ter 60 of the same book the words of Moro-
ni, the Captain of the army: “Behold I am
Moroni your chief captain. I seek not
power, but to pull it down; I seek not for
the honor of the world, but the glory of my
God and the freedom of my country.”
	Now is not this the same spirit which
prompts the war today? And behold how
long that war lasted. Please read this
chapter, we will find the Book of Mormon
a benefit at this time. It was not kept in
vain, it is the lesson we greatly need at the
present time. This sacred relic is not
properly appreciated by our people at the
present time, and I think the reason is that
we accepted the Gospel because it was the
teaching of Christ, exactly as He taught it
when He was in His mortal state, it being
the same which purified and sanctified His
disciples until they could do the same
things that He did both in healing the sick
arid raising the dead. Accordingly if a
people must be found to arise and meet
Him exactly of this character when He
comes to reign King of kings and Lord of
lords, it must be through the same rule of
action which purified and sanctified them or
we will not be the same character that
they are. And you know He said, “Ex-
cept ye are one ye are not mine.”
	How important, then that we give strict
heed to His words that we may be one
with those whom He brings with Him, and
who will live one thousand years without
knowing of sickness or death or the sor-
rows of this life. I for one greatly desire
to live again with Him in the Millenium.
I shall take my long sleep, but hope to
hear the trumpet of God when it sounds to
awake all who are worthy to come forth
and arise to meet them at this great and
glorious event.
	But let us read the Book of Mormon as a
friend of mine told me to read it, asking
God our Father every time he took it up to
read, “Is this truth or is it fiction?”
While reading he got a testimony for him-
self that it was correctly written, exactly as
things transpired at that time. Now this
is easy and the best way is it not? And
now is the time we need this intelligence,
and it seems to be kept expressly for this
generation. Let us improve the time, for
this life is short at best.—July 22, 1898.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORT.

PUEBLO BRANCH, COLORADO MISSION.	
	Report of a special meeting called by
Apostle John W. Taylor, Sunday, July 3,
1898. We had Apostle Taylor and Sister
Susa Young Gates with us. They came to
organize a Relief Society in the Pueblo
branch of the Colorado mission of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Sister Gates met in the morning with the
Sunday School and spoke one hour to the
leaders and members on their duties. At
2 p. m. we again met in the capacity of a
faith meeting and listened to the testimo-
nies of the Saints. Elders Ensign and Gra-
ham rendered some good music. Apostle
Taylor announced a meeting for the sisters
at 6 p. m., for the purpose of organizing a
Relief Society.
	The meeting was called to order by Sis-
ter Susa Y. Gates. Singing. Prayer by
Sister Emma Simmons. Singing. Sister
Gates spoke at some length upon the duties
of the president and other officers and mem-
bers of the Relief Society. The officers
were put before the meeting as follows:
Sister Elizabeth Hart, president; Sisters
Amanda Coleman and Emma Simmons,
counselors; Sister Ella Branch, secretary;
Sister Johnson, treasurer. They were all
sustained in their respective positions.
They were set apart by Apostle Taylor,
Elders H. S. Ensign and F. C. Graham.
	There were present of the sisters Eliza-
beth Hart, Amanda Coleman, Emma Sim-
mons, Ella Branch, Sister Johnson, Della
Cummings, Elizabeth Cummings, Frozey
Cummings, Sister F. Branch, Sister Sum-
merell and Sister Porter.
	There were present Elders from Utah
Apostle Taylor, Elders H. S. Ensign, F.
C. Graham, Ray Fairbanks, Zeb Colton,
David F. Smith. Local Elders, J. I. Hart,
W. O. Cummings, H. E. Cummings and
J. D. Simmons.
	The meeitng was then given into the
hands of Sister Hart who spoke at some
length. Benediction by Counselor Coleman.
	At 7:30 p. m. meeting was called to
order by President J. P. Hart. Singing.
Prayer by Elder D. F. Smith. Singing.
Apostle Taylor then introduced Sister
Gates as the speaker. She occupied the
time in speaking upon the belief and life of
the Latter-day Saints. Apostle Taylor
then spoke at some length upon the pro-
gress of the work of the Lord in this part
of the vineyard, and prophecied that the
time was near at hand when there would
be branches of the Church from Pueblo to
Jackson Co., Mo., and that many in the
room would live to see the roads lined with
people on their way to the Temple in Jack-
son County. He also gave some good
counsel. Benediction by Elder F. C. Gra-
ham.
			ELLA BRANCH, Sec.


He who lends money to the poor is often
better than he who gives them alms.

	To do well is to be well. Persevere in the
thought, “I shall be better tomorrow,”
and it will help you to become so. It has
been said that no man ever died without his
own consent. Never get your own consent
to dying. Resolve to live; resolve to be
well. You yourself must make the effort;
you must work out your own salvation.
—Charles Kingsley.


IN MEMORIAM.

SUSANNAH VANCE.
	Died of appendicitis at Mesa City, July 10, 1898,
after three days illness, Sister Susannah Vance,
wife of James Vance Sr, and daughter of Jerome
M. and Mary Rhodes Benson. Deceased was
born Feb. 8, 1833, near Independence, Jackson
Co., Mo. Born in the Church at so early a period
she passed through every principal evolution o
Church experience from the time of her birth un-
til the day of her death.
	She came to Utah in 1850, was married to her
husband, James Vance, in 1855, with whom she
shared in the pri[-]ations and toils of Utah’s early
pioneers, and to whom she bore a family of
twelve children, and lived to see one son return
from an honorable mission, while another son
and grandson are still in the mission field and as
stated by her Bishop and each who spoke at her
funeral, Sister Vance was a live member of the
Church, was faithlul to every duty and calling.
From age, experience and good works she has
gone to her rest as a veteran in the Church of
God, leaving a veteran husband with four living
children and very many grandchildren to bear
her name in honor and blessing through genera-
tions of time.
	As a worker in the St. George Temple she was
among the first called after its dedication, and
she faithfully labored in that calling until 1882,
the period of their migration to Arizona. On
her arrival in Arizona with her famil[-] she joined
the Relief Society and at her death was president
of the teachers in the Alma ward. She was a
faithful member attending to every duty devolv-
ing upon her, and always on hand to help to re-
lieve the sick or those in distress. Sister Vance
came up with her husband last year and attended
the Jubilee, and seemed to enjoy the visit very
much.
	A large cortege of loving kindred and friends
followed her remains to the grave to await a re-
union of loved one in that sweet bye and bye.
		ANNIE KLEINMAN, President,
		HENRIETTA STANDAGE, Counselor, 
		MELISSA HUNSAKER, Secretary.
	Mesa City, August 16, 1898.
SARAH LAKER COOK.
	We feel it our duty, painful though it be, to
make mention of the death of Sister Sarah Laker
Cook, wife of Alonzo Cook, which occured at her
home in Swan Creek, Utah, July 5, after an illness
of eleven days. The immediate cause of her
death was pronounced hemorrage of the brain.
Her sufferings were very great, but during her
sickness as through her entire life she exe cised
the most extraordinary faith in the power of the
Priesthood. Since her early childhood she has
been a consistent, conscientious Latter-day Saint
and her devotion to her religion was unbounded.
She has held several prominent positions in the
Young Ladies Association and other organiza-
izations in the ward where she has resided, and
at the time of her death was a prominent
teacher in the Sabbath School and Religion Class
besides holding the position of counselor to
Stake President Annie Laker of the Primary
Association of Bear Lake. Her greatest pleasure
in life was to labor among the children whom she
devotedly loved. She has borne seven children,
four of whom survive her, and they with the sor-
rowing husband and parents are made to feel the
truth of the words,
		Death rides on every passing breeze,
		And lurks in every flower.
	There were over forty carriages in the funeral
procession and the floral offerings were profuse
and beautiful. It was especially fitting that the
Primary children of the neighboring towns came
with their flowers and in the most perfect order
marched silently and sadly and placed them on
the coffin of her who had known and loved them
in life. May we all so live that when the death
summons comes our welcome will be as Campbel
so beautifully says,

“Soon may this fluttering spark of vital flame
Forsake its languid, melancholy frame!
Soon may these eyes their trembling lustre close
Welcome the dreamless night of long repose!
Soon may this woe-worn spirit seek the bourne
Where lulled to slumber,grief forgets to mourn”
								LURLINE.
St. Charles, Idaho.
BERTHA PETERSON SWENSON.
	On Sunday, June 26, 1898, Sister Bertha Peter-
son Swenson departed this life.


Sister Swenson was born June 14, 1841, at Wal-
by, Sweden	She was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, March 2
1856, and emigrated to Utah in 1857. She was the
mother of twe ve children, nine of whom still sur-
vive her, and are all good Latter-day Saints who
with her husband, August Swenson, lament the
death of a loving wife and a kind and gentle
mother.
	Sister Swenson was a faithful, consistent Latter-
day Saint, unassuming and always attending to
her duties in the season thereof. She has been a
teacher in the Relief Society ever since its first
organization in Spanish Fork, which was forty
years ago, until she resigned on account of ill
health. Her death was calm and peaceful; she
felt no pain but was so sleepy.
	To all those who sleep in Jesus, death is sweet 
and has no sting.

		“God hath gathered home her spirit,
			God hath taken what He gave,
		Friend and sister sweetly slumber,
			In the quiet, peaceful grave.

		At the resurrection morning
			We shall all appear as one,
		O, what robes of bright adorning
			Will the righteous then put on.”

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, The hand of Divine Providence has
removed our beloved sister from a scene of her
temporal labors, we are desirous of testifyin our
respect for her memory and expressing our
earnest and affectionate sympathy with the house-
hold deprived of her earthly society; therefore be 
it
	Resolved, That while we bow with humble sub-
mission to the will of the Most High, we do not
the le s mourn for our sister who has been taken
from us.
	Resolved, That we lament the loss of an active
member of the Society, whose utmost endeavors
were exerted for its welfare and prosperity; a
friend and companion who was dear to us all, and
whose life was a standard of emulation to her co-
laborers.
	Resolved, That the heartfelt sympathy of this
Society be extended to her family in their be-
reavement.
	MARY BAXTER, President,
	BERTHA NIELSON,
	CHRISTANIA CHRISTENSEN, Counselors,
	MAGGIE KING, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall, Saturday, July 30, 1898, President
M. I. Horne presiding. Singing “Lord we
come before Thee now.” Prayer by Clara
Cannon. Singing “How firm a founda-
tion.”
	President Horne knew the benefit of
these meetings. It was here where our
spirits were refreshed and we were fed.
Spoke of how easily was the Spirit of God
grieved. Many times it was driven away
from us by fretting and worrying. How-
ever, God knew our weaknesses and would
be merciful to us if we tried to overcome
them. Spoke of the difficulties the people
had to overcome who settled Utah, and
compared those days to the ones we enjoy
now. Said our young people knew noth-
ing of these trials. God had said He would
have a tried people, therefore we should ac-
knowledge His hand in all things. Spoke
of the war and knew the hand of the Lord
was in it. Did not feel like prolonging her
remarks as there was business of impor-
tance to transact concerning our excursion
on Monday next.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said she had been
thinking of the remarks of President Wood-
ruff at the time of the Temple excursion to
Brigham City, wherein he said the angel
of destruction had gone forth. Thought
this had been literally fulfilled. Spoke on
tithing and referred to a piece in the Deseret

[Column 2]
News on the subject of tithing, wherein it
said that paying tithing was better than a
bank account. Spoke of the advantage of
making homes in Arizona as there was
every advantage there for doing so.
	Sister Barnes spoke of the advantage
these meetings were to her. She never
liked to hear any one spoken ill of. Re-
cited a very nice piece of poetry about
speaking against any one.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder spoke of her ab-
sence from these meetings, she had been off
traveling in the interest of the work. Spoke
of the different organizations which she had
attended. During her travels she was sur-
prised and made glad to see the abundance
of the wheat fields, everything was pro-
gressing and the Saints were all trying to
live their religion. She was gone three
weeks and had a very enjoyable time.
Said as they drove through the abundant
harvest fields Brother Grant made the re-
mark that he wished President Woodruff
could see this, that it would fill his heart
with joy.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde proceeded to give a
description of their recent trip to Bingham
in organizing the Society. Said it was a
peculiar place and most of them were
young women who had married outsiders,
but these women were full of faith and their
husbands were generous in allowing them
every privilege in attending their meetings,
was reminded of the saying of the Savior,
“Be ye not unevenly yoked together.”
Thought Sister Horne was a perfect marvel
the way she was buoyed up to stand the
traveling that she did. It proved to her
that the Lord was willing to sustain those
who spent their time in his service.
	Sisters Barton and Wilcox related some
very interesting circumstances and bore
very strong testimonies.
	Remarks were made by Sister M. O.
Brown.
	President Mary A. Hyde said she loved
the communion of Saints, this was a privi-
lege that was promised her many years
ago. Felt we had many testimonies of the
Lord touching the hearts of the people of
the world towards our missionaries who
were out in the world. Gave an instance
of how one of our young men was taken
care of who was sick. She then spoke in
tongues but it was not interpreted.
	The business of the meeting was then at-
tended to. Singing, Doxology. Benedic-
tion by Sister Julia C. Howe.
				ZINA H. BULL, Sec.

	Minutes of Ladies Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th ward Assembly hall, Aug-
ust 13, 1898, President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing “Arise O,
glorious Zion.” Prayer by Sister Julia C.
Howe. Continued by singing “Let those
who would be Saints indeed.” The secre-
tary not being present Sister Alder was
called upon to act in this capacity. Minutes
of last meeting read and approved.
	President Horne spoke of those who met
in these meetings. Said that Jesus said
those who meet often together, a record of
them should be kept, and when He came
they should be His jewels. He also spoke
in parables. Referred to the sower who
went forth to sow, some seed fell in stray
ground, some where there was not moisture,
therefore it could not germinate, only some
grew to perfect fruit. Ancient Israel once
fell away from the Lord and Saul went to
the Witch of Endor to get the word of

[Column 3]
the Lord. He could not get it by dreams
or visions or Urim and Thummim, because
they had drifted so far away from God. “I
know how President Woodruff feels about
running after the things of the world. The
children of God all have their agency, He
does not take it away from them, neither
do his servants. How grievous is the sin
among us of Sabbath breaking, running
after pleasure and the vain things of the
world. I am thankful that my heart was
opened to receive the Gospel when it came
to me, and it is a pleasure to me now.
How comforting the still small voice which
testifies that we are approved of by our
Father in heaven! God pours out His spirit
upon all the world but it all belongs to us,
and is from His hand. All the great in-
ventions are from and by Him, and are for
the benefit of His Saints. Sisters your
labor is among your own circle. God de-
sires us to be satisfied with His Gospel and
labor among His people.” Spoke of Sister
Jannette Morris who often spoke in our
meetings. “But her voice is silent now,
and she has gone Beyond to receive her re-
ward. She was a good woman, and I al-
ways felt that she was a congenial spirit
and we miss her. But life hereafter will be
glorious for her. Let us heed the whisper-
ings of the Spirit, commit our loved ones in-
to His care and thank Him for all bless-
ings.” Alluded to our fast meetings and
offerings, tithing and every other thing that
the Lord calls upon us to do. “Let us be
among the willing workers, that our names
may be in His book of remembrance.”
	Sister Butterworth said she often felt that
she would not be afraid to have her record
read from the house tops. Related a dream
which had been a comfort to her, desired to
endure to the end.
	Sister Hannah Wright was thankful that
she was chosen to be a savior of her fath-
er’s household. Bore a strong testimony
of the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Waterfall said she was thankful
that she should stand at the head of her
family. We have set out to gain the same
prize. May we be faithful.
	Sister Seabeck also bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Clara C. Cannon desired to bear
her testimony to the goodenss of God to
her, the only one of her father’s house to
embrace the Gospel. We can pray for and
encourage our friends who are weak in the
faith, not murmur, for that will grieve the
Spirit. May we keep our eyes upon the
mark of our high calling.
	The sisters sang “Glorious things are
sung of Zion.”
	Sister Julia Jones bore her testimony.
Knew that God had blessed her in her old
age. Desired to be faithful to the end.
	Sister M. E. Taylor felt built up to hear
her sisters bear their testimonies. Hoped
she would be faithful to the end.
	President Horne said she received a note,
it was sent to her come up to Bingham.
Said some of our sisters were married to
outsiders. A young mother had lost her
baby just before they went up there, she
desired a Mormon funeral but her husband
would not allow it, but had a Gentile offi-
ciate. Some of them allowed their wives
to go to meeting and to the Relief Society,
but some are bitter. “Mothers have we
done our duty in rearing our children?
Have we instructed them aright? In an-
cient Israel the Lord commanded the peo-
ple to purify themselves, and put away


their wives who were not of Israel. We
come upon earth to get these tabernacles
for our spirits to dwell in, let us keep them
pure, let us renew our covenants with the
Almighty.
	Sister Marks bore her testimony. She
was thankful that she was a member of the
Church of God, desired to work for the
living and the dead.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson desired that all
the sisters in Salt Lake could hear the in-
structions given here today. Spoke of her
visit to Morgan Stake and testified of the
faithfulness of the sisters there. Spoke
against the waste of the sisters in many
instances, while others were lacking for
needful things. Mentioned the bounteous
harvest and urged the sisters to economize
and not go into debt.
	Jannette Carrington bore her testimony.
Desired to live to do her duty.
	Sister Hardy felt blessed that we had
aged sisters to instruct us, said Sister Eliza
R. Snow said, “Woe to those sisters who
are at ease in Zion.”  Every day we make
our record, and may it be a good one.”
Made other eloquent remarks.
	Sister Margaret P. Young bore her testi-
mony that this work was true. Her par-
ents had a beautiful home near Philadel-
phia, but when the Gospel came they left
all and gathered with the Saints. “I knew
it was true or I would not have done it. I
pray the young people will listen and heed,
God’s spirit is among a very few, and I
pray that the young people may observe
the word of God.
	Sister Rawlings desired to acknowledge
the goodness of God to her, desired to be
useful in this Church. Prayed God to
bless our aged sisters that they might live
long to give us instructions.
	Sister Cornell said if she ever wanted to
get a great blessing she had to fast for it.
Spoke of the youth of Zion, prayed for wis-
dom and God’s holy spirit. Sister Wilcken
had a testimony to bear,for God had blessed
her many times. Prayed that our aged
sisters might be spared long to teach and
instruct us.
	Closing remarks by President Horne. “I
thank the sisters for their prayers in my
behalf, and I feel that God hears them.”
Spoke of the visit of herself and aids to the
11th ward to select a counselor to fill the
vacancy caused by the death of Sister Mor-
ris. There not being enough sisters pres-
ent, the business was postponed until next
month. Also reported the excursion to
Saltair, said we had not made as much as
we should, but felt to thank the sisters for
attending and helping to make a good time.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks; gave
out conference notice, it will convene in
three weeks. Closed by singing Doxology.
Benediction Counselor E. L. Webb. 
		LYDIA D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Count no one lost to thee who died lov-
ing thee.

   Good nature and evenness of temper will
give you an easy companion for life; virtue
and good sense an agreeable friend; love
and constancy a good wife or husband.
—Spectator.

   Opinions, theories and systems pass by
turn over the grindstone of time, which at
first gives them brilliancy and sharpness,
but finally wears them out.—Rivarol.


It is with some good qualities as it is
with the senses—they are incomprehensible
and inconceivable to such as have them
not.—Rochefoucauld.

   A pleasant room in the Tribune home is
arranged fcr the accomodation of ladies
visiting Washington. 1325 10th street
is in direct connection with the rapid tran-
sit lines for all parts of the city and suburbs.

   I will believe in the right of one man to
govern a nation despotically when I find a
man born into the world with boots and
spurs and a nation born with saddles on
their backs.—Algernon Sidney.

   No enjoyment is transitory; the impres-
sion which it leaves is lasting, and what is
done with diligence and toil imparts to the
spectator a secret force of which one cannot
say how far the effects may reach.—Goethe.


UTAH DAY.

TRANS-MISSISSIPPI EXPOSITION.

	For Utah Day at Omaha, September 14,
the Rio Grande Western Railway will
make rate of $25.00 round trip. Tickets
on sale September 10th and 11th only.
Tickets good till September 26th. Trains
leave at 8:30 a. m. and 7:40 p.m. Through
sleeping cars. Free reclining chair cars.
Buffet cars. Call at Ticket Office No. 103
West Second South (Dooly Block Corner.)


[Column 1]
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts
Will commence her winter class in
Obstetrics and Nursing, on Monday,
Oct. 10th. Any one wishing to com-
municate with Dr. Roberts, address
75 North State Street.
			Telephone 548 D.

R.K. THOMAS

Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.

SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s School
	The winter session of DR. ELLIS
R. SHIPP'S School in obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October 11th,
1898, at her office Constitutional
building, Main Street, with greatly
improved facilities for instruction in
this important study. For full par-
ticulars please address
		ELLIS R. SHIPP. M. D.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
	   Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
	   The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
	   We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
	
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Midwifery Classes.
   DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

	Do not worry your brain about the man
in the moon, but study the man in your
own overcoat.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD
	(In Effect July 17, 1898.

   Trains arrive and depart at Salt Lake City
daily as follows:
			ARRIVE.
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver, Park City
	and Ogden......................... 3 10 p m
From Helena, Butte, Portland, San
	Francisco, Ogden and intermed-
	iate points.................................. 8 55 a m
From San Francisco, Cache Valley
	Ogden and intermediate points. 7 15 p m
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver and Ogden [-] 10 a m
*From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete, Pro-
	vo, Eureka, Mammoth, Silver
	City and intermediate point.... 6 20 p m
[cross]Mixed train from Terminus,
	Tooele and Garfield Beach...... 4 00 p m
			DEPART.
For Chicago, Omaha, Denver, Kan-
	sas City. St Louis, Ogden and
	Park City.......................... 7 00 a m
For San Francisco, Ogden, Cache
	Valley and intermediate points. 8 05 a m
For Ogden, Denver, Kansas City,
	Omaha, St. Louis, Chicago and
	intermediate points.............. 6 25 p m
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland
	and San Francisco................ 8 45 p m
*For Mercur, Eureka, Silver City,
	Provo, Nephi, Sanpete, Milford,
	Frisco and intermediate points  7 30 am
[cross]Mixed train for Garfield Beach,
	Tooele and Terminus............. 7 45 a m
	*Trains south of Juab run daily except 
Sunday.
	[cross] Daily except Sunday.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, UNDER MASONIC HALL,
No. 200 West Second South street.
	Telephone No. 250.
	Railroad and Steamship Tickets on sa[-]e
to all parts of the world.
	Pullman Palace Car ticket office.
			     D. E. BURLEY,
		     Gen. Pass. and Ticket Agent.
S. W. ECCLES,
	      General Traffic Manager.
W. H. BANCROFT,
	      Vice-President and Gen. Manager


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 27 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1898. NO.8.


CONTENTS:
	Letter from Miss Anthony. Beautiful Saltair—
Mary A. J. Lambert. Terrible News. The Em-
press of Austria. Association Gleanings—E. B.
Wells. Woman’s Work. Save the Men—Eliza-
beth Stuart Phelps  The City Park—M. E K.
R. S. Reports. In Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL:—In Memoriam. Organization of
the First Presidency. Conference Notices. Great
Events Transpiring. Executive Meetings in
Omaha.
	POETRY:—The Gifts You Hold—Lydia D.
Alder. My Beautiful Mother—Rosa Pearle.


THE GIFTS YOU HOLD.

Why cling to earthly baubles, false as fair are
	they,
For all you can hold in your cold dead hands,
	Is that you have given away.
Why build such towering castles, for they are
	made of clay,
While all you can hold in your cold dead hands
	Is that you have given away. 
Why choose the costly diadem, or wear the rai-
	ment gay,
When all you can hold in your cold dead hands,
	Is that you have given away. 
Why seek for earth’s renown, 'tis fleeting as a
	day,
While all you can hold in your cold dead hands,
	Is that you have given away. 
Make lighter some burden’d heart, as you journey
	day by day,
For closely pressed in your cold dead hands 
	Lives the love you have given away.
Then give true love forever, thine actions let it
	sway,
Its flowers will bloom in your cold dead hands,
	With the gifts you have given away.
Up in the shining mansions, lasting treasures
	you’ll find some day,
And overflowing in your cold dead hands, 
	 Lo! that you have given away 
						LYDIA D. ALDER.


LETTER FROM MISS ANTHONY.
To the Daughters of the American Nation-
	al Council:

	Dear Friends:—Will you permit me to
address you, who, although not a member
of your order, am a daughter of the American
Revolution as well as a daughter of Ameri-
ca, hence doubly entitled to be reckoned
American?
	I trust that your Council will demand
that this country shall be governed by
American women as well as American men.
While all foreign-born men, by due process
of law, may become full-fledged citizens,
armed with the franchise, all native born
women are doomed to disfranchisement—
perpetual minors, perpetual aliens! For-
eign-born men are sovereigns in their adopt-
ed country; native-born women are subjects
in their own America.
	Think of what lies before us; in addition
to all the different nationalities now wield-
ing their power in our “body-politic,” we
shall soon have the semi-barbaric sons of


Spain in all the “isles of the sea,” together
with those of Hawaii admitted into this
holy of holies of our American republic.
	Can you, Daughters of America, see this
tremendous foreign balance of power com-
ing into our government without making a
demand for the admission of at least
American-born women to the franchise?
For native-born women to be ruled by the
men of their own nationality—their own
civilization—is quite humiliating enough:
but to live in subjection to the men of
foreign countries, void of the first principles
of our free institutions, is surely a degrada-
tion too dire for the Daughters of America
to submit to without an earnest protest. 
	The fiat has gone forth, there is no es-
cape from universal manhood suffrage, and
the one and only antidote for all its ills is
universal womanhood suffrage. There can
be no going backward. All men, of all
classes and all nationalities, have the right
to vote and all women must have it. There-
fore, the question now is, when shall the
crowning right of American citizenship be
placed in the hands of women, whom men
love to call the better half of the people?
	That you, the Daughters of America,
may give the weight of your influence to
hasten the coming of this good time is the 
earnest wish of
			Yours sincerely,
				SUSAN B. ANTHONY.


BEAUTIFUL SALTAIR.

[Written for Press Club Day at the Lake.]
	Salt Lake City, the “Mecca of the West,”
is an idealistic home, nestling among the
Rockies so mysterious with Indian legends,
and cradled between the snowy peaks and
sunny slopes of the Wasatch and Oquirrh
chains of mountains. By her thrifty firesides
of cottage and mansion, amidst her abun-
dant fields and hanging vineyards,and in the
cultured shade of her public parks, gray
haired sires love to repeat the story of the
perilous pioneer days, whose semi-centen-
nial anniversary was so recently celebrated
with pride and pageantry in the heart of
the once American desert.
	Here sixty-five thousand souls pursue
life in its various vocations, on the farm, in
the bank, the mine and factory. Salt Lake
City is no longer a half known little oasis
in the sagebrush desert, but a flourishing
Arcadia with metropolitan attainments.
She is proud of her sons and daughters,
her elegant homes and finished schools;
proud, too, of her public buildings, her
parks, her health and pleasure resorts, and
most and best of all that combine beauty,
health, pleasure and magnitude is Saltair,
the famous bathing resort thirty minutes
ride by rail from the centre of the city.
Fastened upon the bosom of the great Salt
Lake, where saline breezes kiss with health
the weary invalid, and whose surface is
dotted by hundreds of happy bathers who
dip and float with content and idleness. 
	To the strains of the latest waltz the
merry dancers lightly trip over the glassy

[Column 2]
smoothnss of the pavilion, the largest of
its kind in the world.
	Saltair, pleasure loving daughter of the
sleeping sea of the west! A miniature 
Venice, not of the Adriatic but of America’s 
dead sea. Reposing upon her mother’s bosom 
like a beautiful bird, breeze-kissed and
brilliant with flashing jewels, her wings
out-spread she poises with grace on the
crest of the salt-capped wave as it breaks
upon the whitened beach of that mystical 
sea of the West. Her resting place is well 
chosen near the home of the seagull, whom
she so naively typifies. The musical lap-
ping of the wavelets caress her plumage,
whilst she holds on her beak the silver 
threads of romance and reality. Merrily
she greets the rising sun and throughout
the long summer days she reclines upon
the placid waters, vain of her own beauty
reflected within the sapphire depths, until
the decline of day when she prepares with
gladness to receive within the cover of her
reaching wings the guests whose arrival is
signaled by curling steam and puffing speed.
	When evening shades are gathering Salt-
air reaches the height of her magnificent 
sublimity. Bathed in the changing hues of
the sunset glory the picture is the realiza-
tion of fairydom. As by the touch of magic
appear the forms of youth and beauty, 
grace and dignity, gliding and swaying to
the rhythm of music and laughter, whilst 
dancing lights are flitting like fire flies upon
the bosom of the lake and playing with the
stars at hide and seek among the rippling 
waves, vanishing at last beneath the silver
bridge thrown by the moon across the
water, a typical pathway to heaven.
	As midnight approaches Saltair Queen of
Salt Lake, sinks in slumber draped in
her mantle of darkness and solitude, un-
conscious of the joys and heart-burnings of
the day that is dead, and heedless of those
that may come on the morrow.
	And so through the long summer days
she lives a kaleidiscopic life until the chill- 
ing touch of King Frost gives her warning 
that her reign is over. With dignity she
enfolds herself in winter’s white mantle and
statuesque as a frozen goddess she awaits
the return of her votaries whom the summer
time will bring again to her embrace.
			MARY A. J. LAMBERT.
Silver Lake, Sep. 1, 1898.


"Would that we could have a woman
surgeon-general; a woman at the head of
the Commissary Department; a woman at 
the head of the trained nurses, with power
to control each department. Do you think
then that red tape would shut away the
needed food for the well or the sick?"
—Miss Anthony.

	Miss Anthony says that man does his
own part of the work well—that is  the
hewing, cutting and killing---but for the
woman’s part, the housekeeping, the mak-
ing of things homelike and comfortable for
the tens of thousands of mothers’ boys, he 
is a total failure.


WOMANS EXPONENT


TERRIBLE NEWS.

	Vienna, Sep. 10.—The news of the assas-
sination of the queen reached here shortly
before 6 o’clock. It spread like lightning.
The streets were suddenly filled with multi-
tudes of people, many of them became
impassable for vehicles.
	Extra editions were issued by all the
papers. Many Viennese considered the re-
port incredible until the semi-official Weiner
Abend Post appeared confirming the state-
ments of the other papers.
	All the papers accompanied the announce-
ment with warm tributes to the empress.
They were eagerly snatched from the hands
of the sellers and were read aloud to groups
of citizens. An indescribable grief over-
powers the people. The performance at
the court theatres and the jubilee exhibition
have been cancelled.
	Emperor Francis Joseph received the
news at Schoenbruhn. His majesty’s jour-
ney to attend the maneuvres at Zips,
Hungary, was of course abandoned. 
All the theatres here and in the provin-
cial towns are closed.
	The extra edition of the semi-official
Wiener Abend Post appeared with black
borders. It expresses the “universal sor-
row felt at the loss of our noble empress
whose life was one long chain of philan-
thropy,” adding: “She had gone abroad
in order to obtain fresh strength, but only
to become a victim of a wicked and mad at-
tack.”
	It concludes with an expression of
“sincere sympathy with the emperor, upon
whose beloved head such grief has fallen in
the year of his jubilee. ”

THE SISTERS OF THE EMPRESS. 

	“The assassination of the Empress Eliza-
beth of Austria has created an immense
sensation in the French capital where the
sympathy of the people is all the greater
because it is remembered that her sister, the
Duchess d’ Alencon, perished in the terrible
Charity Bazaar fire last year.
	“Her other sister, the former queen of
Naples, has resided in Paris since the death
of her husband and the murdered empress
was a frequent visitor there and familiar to
Parisians. Sympathetic crowds gathered
near the Austrian embassy soon after the
sad news began to spread through the city.”


THE EMPRESS OF AUSTRIA.
	
	Geneva, Switzerland, Sep. 10.---The
Empress of Austria was assassinated at the
Hotel Beaurivage this afternoon by an an-
archist who was arrested. He stabbed her
majesty with a stiletto.
	The Empress of Austria was born Dec. 
24, 1837. She was a daughter of Duke
Maxmillian of Bavaria, and was married to
Francis Joseph, emperor of Austria and 
king of Hungary, April 24, 1854. They
had three children,the Archduchess Gissola,
who is married to Prince Luitpold of
Bavaria; the Archduke Rudolph, who mar-
ried Princess Stephanie of Belgium an
who was (seemingly) assassinated in 1889, 
and the Archduchess Maria Valeria, who
married the Archduke Franz Salvator of 
Austria Tuscany. The late empress was an 
enthusiastic horsewoman.
	It appears that her majesty was walking
from her hotel to the landing place of the 
steamer at about 1 o'clock when an Italian
anarchist suddenly appeared, and approach


ing her stabbed her to the heart. The em-
press fell, got up again and was carried to
the steamer unconscious. The boat started, 
but seeing the empress had not recovered
consciousness the captain returned and the 
empress was carried to the Hotel Beau-
rivage where she expired.
	The murderer is a man named Luchoni.
He was born in Paris of Italian parents.
	The Empress of Austria had been stop-
ping at the Hotel Beaurivage for several
days. It was at first thought the wound
was not serious but she died in a few 
minutes.
	The stretcher upon which the empress
was carried to the hotel was hastily impro-
vised with oars and sail cloth. Doctors and
priests were immediately summoned and a 
telegram was sent to Emperor Francis 
Joseph.
	All efforts to revive her majesty were un-
availing and she expired at three o'clock.
	The wound was just over the left breast.
There was hardly any bleeding. A priest was
secured in time to administer extreme unction

ANOTHER ACCOUNT.

	Berne, Switzerland, Sep. 10.---Another
account of the assassination of the Empress
of Austria says:
	"After having been stabbed from behind, 
the empress rose and walked on board the 
steamer where she fell fainting. The cap-
tain did not wish to put out from the quay,
but did so at the request of the empress
and her suite, there being no apprehension
that she was seriously hurt.
	"The steamer was put back before leav-
ing the open lake and the empress uncon-
scious was carried to the hotel on a 
stretcher."


ASSOCIATION GLEANINGS.
	The Relief Society conference of Summit
Stake was held Tuesday, September 6, at
Hennefer, Mrs. Mary J. Atwood presiding.
A meeting was also held at Coalville.
Dr. E. S. Barney of this city was present,
also Bishop Atwood of Kamas.

	The Relief Society of Oneida held con-
ference at Franklin, Idaho, Tuesday, Sep-
tember 13. Sister E. J. Stevenson of this
city was present and reports an enjoyable
time and excellent meetings, also a meeting
at Preston after conference had adjourned.

	The Relief Society of Sanpete Stake met
in conference at Manti on Friday, Septem-
ber 9, in the Council House. Counselor
Abbie Shoemaker presided in the absence
of the president, Mary A. T. Hyde, who
did not reach there after attending Presi-
dent Woodruff's funeral in time for the
morning session, but was present in the
afternoon as also was her counselor, Alvira
S. Cox, and Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake
City. The meeting was an interesting one
and the subjects of storing grain (after the
abundant harvest this year) and of establish-
ing silk culture as a remunerative home in-
dustry were ably treated upon by the sisters.

	The Y. L. M. I. A. of Sanpete Stake
held its conference on Saturday, September
10, in the Council House, Miss Christine
Willardson presiding. Meetings at 10 a.
m. and 2 p. m., the hall filled with young
women was a delightful picture and the re-
ports from branch associations in the Stake
were very gratifying. Much good instruc-


tion was given concerning education, the
home, and spiritual matters. President
Maiben spoke a short time in the afternoon,
dwelling much upon the home and kindred
interests.
	President M. I. Horne of this Stake of
Zion, her counselors and aids, have been at-
tending meetings in the several wards
giving instruction and encouragement ac-
cording to the needs and circumstances of
the society. They report society affairs
generally very prosperous, although during
the hot weather the meetings have not been
so well attended.
	On Tuesday, September 6, the Cannon
ward held its reuglar meeting, President
Sarah J. Cannon presiding. Meeting con-
vened in the school house adjacent to the
dwellings for convenience although the
ward has a handsome new meeting house,
in the building and furnishing of which the
Relief Society materially assisted. There
was a very good number of sisters present,
many of them young women, which is
very gratifying. The minutes were very
interesting indeed, the speakers were Presi-
dent Sarah J. Cannon, Sisters Caroline
Smoot, Rebecca Williams, Mary E. Sharp,
Martha T. Cannon and E. B. Wells. The
Society seems to be making great progress
in active work. After the close of the
meeting delicate refreshments were served
and a pleasant social hour indulged in.
Such converse among the sisters sweetens
the daily life and promotes union.


WOMAN’S WORK.

	Motto: Disseminate the best that is
thought and known by club women.
	We have arranged to publish a monthly
magazine to be known as the “Woman’s
Work-”
	The literature in the paper written by
our club women throughout the country, is
a ground work for a storehouse of valuable
information. By preserving and circulating
these carefully prepared papers we can
form a companionship for our clubs and
compile a literary magazine of interest and
instruction for those of our sex who are un-
able to join in our work as well as those
who take active part therein.
	The “Woman’s Work” will in no way in-
terfere with our wage earners who now re-
port the news of clubs and their federations,
it will give an impetus to our various club
organs and weekly papers already estab-
lished, it will broaden the work for the field
is a large one.
	We will publish papers and periodicals
verbatim over the full name of the author,
(unless otherwise requested.)
	We hope you will co-operate with the
editors by sending monthly some contribu-
tion that you may deem a credit to your
members and of value to clubs in general.
	An early reply will greatly facilitate our
work, we wish to get out our first issue in
September, and distribute several thousand
copies complimentary, relying on the merits
of the periodical to secure subscribers. The
subscription will be one dollar per annum.
	We trust to have a paper from your club
for the initiative number. Thanking you
in advance for any interest you will give us
in this work.
				EVELYN FITZPATRICK,
				ELLEN DOWNS,
					Editors and Proprietors.
No. 425 South Court St., Montgomery, Ala.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MY BEAUTIFUL MOTHER.

BY ROSA PEARLE.
I see her again as she sits in her chair,
Her pure pallid face, her silver kis’t hair;
And I think the wide world holds never another
So fair and so sweet as my beautiful mother.

O, my beautiful mother! with love in her eyes—
Which once were as blue as the mid-summer
	skies;
And a smile on her lips, which with tenderness
	glows—
The lips which were once as the pink of the rose—

Your years have been spent in the deeds half di-
	vine,
Which only a mother with love can entwine;
And out of the lessons which doubt cannot
	smother,
I turn to the faith of my beautiful mother.

And, once more, I kneel at the foot of His throne,
And ask, as a sinner, to let me atone
For speech that was reckless of hurt to another
And wounded the heart of my beautiful mother.

And I say as I look at her, there in her chair— 
A spirit about her that breathes of a prayer—
In all the wide world there’s never another
So fair and so sweet as my beautiful mother.
								Selected.


SAVE THE MEN.

	Elizabeth Stuart Phelps thus calls upon
the country to “cut the blood-red tape to
tatters,” and save the men who are to re-
turn from Porto Rico from transport horrors.
From her home in Gloucester, August 30,
under the title of “Transport Disgrace,”
she protests against permitting the 5,000
United States soldiers, who still remain at
Porto Rico, to be brought home under the
conditions which have prevailed on board
the transports which have borne the sol-
diers from Cuba. Mrs. Phelps says:
	“An immense current of horror is passing
through this astonished land. We are
wasting time and vitality enough to save
hundreds of lives in the sheer emotion
caused by the inhuman blunders under
which the heroes of this war are perishing.
Let us stop shrieking and get to the rescue.
Mere outcries will not help the dying. In-
vestigation will not feed the starved dead.
Blaming the Secretary of War will not heal
the heartbroken living. This is not the
time to investigate, but to act. Five thou-
sand men still remain to be sent home at
once by a transport system to whose awful
mercies the societies which punish cruelty
would not allow hogs or sheep to be en-
trusted.
	“What is to prevent the same atrocities
from happening on every ship? They can
and must be stopped.
	“If Government cannot take care of its
heroes, the people can. I suggest that the
governors of states, the Red Cross, the
Volunteer Aids, or any organization pos-
sessing suitable positions, sympathy, energy
and resources offer their services by tele-
graph to the President for the definite pur-
pose of properly providing for the remain-
der of our soldiers about to embark. I do
not believe that such offers would be re-
pulsed, but on the contrary, that they
would be welcome if put into suitable
shape. The national disgrace is too deep
to ignore. The people of the United
States will not bear much more. There is
not an hour to lose. There is mercy
enough, money enough, energy enough to


put every transport, in proper condition
within a week, and bring every hero home
in decency and comfort.
	“A dozen men of the Volunteer Aid, a
dozen women of the Red Cross, a few peer-
less and firm governors of states would
bring order out of this pitiful chaos in a
very few days. Cut the blood-red tape to
tatters! Storm the War Department—not
with abuse, but with offers to aid! Put
delegates of mercy on every transport—if
necessary charter our own transports—but
save the men!
		ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS.


[Column 1]
THE CITY PARK.

	How shall I express my gratitude upon
learning that the ground once occupied by
our Fort is now to become a city park?
And I am sure it could not be put to a bet-
ter use. It is a sacred spot, especially so to
the pioneers who arrived here in 1847, my-
self being one of them. It was a charming
sight to behold, our home, although built
of logs in the form of a fort—the doors in-
side and only a porthole outside to watch
the Indians. A portion was built by the
first pioneers which would be finished by
the second which was our company, the
Battalion boys had arrived about the same
time. We brought grain and implements
for farming. The first company arrived
July 24, and our company came two months
later, it was on September 1. We met the
first company at Pacifiic springs, (going
back) so called because it was the first
spring which ran toward the Pacific ocean.
Captain Wallace and a few of his company
arrived on the 12th of September; but in
climbing these mountains the teams were
greatly exhausted and came in a few days
later. Our family arrived on the 12th at
4 p.m. And how happy to find a table
ready for us to sit down and eat our dinner
in a house once more, after traveling and
eating out of doors for four months.
	Here we found Ellen Kimball and Clara
Young and her mother, Sister Harriet
Young, who came with the first company
and had a home in a log room, a chimney
in the corner, a door, and a porthole for a
window, but soon after had a little window
cut near the door and felt it was a quiet,
good resting place, for near by just outside
of the Fort was a deep, cold spring of water
which was very acceptable; besides there
was a creek coming from the mountains.
	Brother Wallace and family, Brother
Pierce and family, Brother Smithies and
family were our neighbors, occupying one
corner, the northeast, of the Fort, and
many others.
	But the Indians’ home seemed to be out
at the warm springs. They came occasion-
ally asking for “teacup-an-a-muck,” that
is “give me something to eat.” We never
failed to grant their request, this made
friends of them, and since we had spoiled
their hunting-ground our cattle would
make amends again. We had very pleas-
ant fall weather for a long time, and when
the snow came it would last only three
days and it would all be gone.
	Now excuse me if I tell you about an ox
in our company, the largest one, I think,
and yet the most poor and bony animal I
ever saw; but now he had nothing to do
but eat and grow fat, and in six weeks he
was killed for beef. It was the most ten-
der and sweet meat I ever ate.   
	I must not forget to tell you that Sister

[Column 2]
Eliza R. Snow was Clara D. Young’s com-
panion, the same as I was to Ellen S. Kim-
ball, and as we were neighbors we felt to
share each others joys and sorrows as the
case might be. We looked upon Sister
Eliza as the presiding officer, especially at
our meetings, for we held prayer meetings
occasionally, I think about once a week,
besides our Sunday meetings at the Bowery.
We felt the need of our Heavenly Father’s
care and also felt that we had much to be
thankful for.
	Did not we feel that our prayers were
heard and answered when the seagulls
came and devoured the crickets? For they
would gorge themselves, then throw up
and eat again, so determined to sweep them
off the land. How wonderful to behold!
I can never forget the sight.
	The grasshoppers, too, came and went
many times, but the last time they came on
Sunday and as we came out of meeting we
saw the ground covered with leaves. “How
is this?” said I. “Don’t you see the trees
full of grasshoppers?” said one to me.
Sure enough, and they only stayed twenty-
four hours, for about noon the next day
they all arose and went towards the lake.
But what a sight they left behind! All
our herbs, catnip, garden sage, wormwood,
tansy, etc., were utterly gone. Not only
so, but every young vegetable such as cab-
bage, turnips, and radishes were gone as
well. But a few days afterwards we found
at the lake the grasshoppers drowned, and
how astonished to see so many winrows
on and near the shore. No wonder they had
destroyed so much for there were so many
of them, swept into the lake by a strong
wind, as you could see. This shows what
the Lord can and will do for those who love
and serve Him in spirit and in truth; for
He seeketh such to worship Him.
	August 17, 1898.		M. E. K.


Miss Clara Barton continues to hold up
the humanitarian side of our relations to
Cuba with noble persistence for a woman
who now nears her three score and ten.
She has gone to Havanna where she will
feed the hungry, clothe the clotheless, care
for the sick and soap the soapless with her
usual vigor and system and thoroughness
and practical good sense. She knows when
it is a good rule to cut through rules, and
she cuts courageously for the good of all
concerned. It is government departmental
system that has caused so much suffering
among the men near Santiago, where the
Red Cross could not readily reach them.
A chaplain of a Michigan regiment wrote
home: “You cannot imagine anything
more hideously horrible than our hospital
system; piles of stores at some places, while
here we have no tents, no cots, no food, no
medicine, no stimulants, and men fading
away all about us. One doctor cried and
sobbed while telling the colonel about the
conditions and his inability to cut the red
tape of the ‘system’ and get the most sim-
ple remedies for men dying under his hands.
it is over a month now that I have been
lying on the ground out of doors, having
passed through a siege of yellow fever
meanwhile. I am splendidly well now,
thank God, and able to do all the duties
falling to me.”—Woman’s Journal.
	Miss Sophronisba Breckinridge, of Ken-
tucky, has just been made a Fellow
in the department of physical science in the
University of Chicago.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the cost Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY SEPTEMBER 15, 1898.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF.
		“Who soweth go[-]d seed shall surely reap;
		The year grows rich as it groweth old
		And [-]ife's latest sands are its sands of gold.”
	How true this is of the life just gone out
in this world, the life of that great, good and
reverend man, President Wilford Woodruff.
True is it that the last years of his life were
full of golden deeds, that will shine for-
ever—deeds of love, of mercy and of that
abundant charity that never faileth. His
name will go down to remotest ages be-
cause of his great kindness, his gentle ten-
derness and his love of simplicity in all
things that help to make life sweet and
beautiful. He was in all places and at all
times essentially a peacemaker, and the
Savior said, “Blessed are the peacemakers,
for they shall be called the children of God.”
	All the virtues that are most dear and
sacred in the home and in the friendships
and relations of human life among one’s
associates and fellow men characterized the
life of President Woodruff. In this respect
he was greatly honored of the Lord; he had
no enemies, his humility was most remark-
able in a man raised to an exalted position
among his brethren in the Church, and it
drew the affections of the people to him to
a degree unsurpassed in the history of men
in our day. It has been truly said of him
that he was without guile, honest, straight-
forward, industrious, and in fact he was
possessed of all the best qualities that make
men worthy of honor in the world and be-
fore all men. He was not only as Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon described him, a
natural man, but naturally a Latter-day Saint.
For the Gospel he was willing to endure all
things and all hardships  and to promulgate
its truths he traveled by land and by sea
thousands and tens of thousands of miles,
and encountered untold suffering, dangers
and exposure.
	Our readers are most of them familiar
with the excellent traits of their venerable
and dearly beloved President who has just
left us to join the innumerable company of
Saints in the worlds on high, but it seems
only proper to let the whole world know
how grandly he stands out from and above
the men of his time. His departure was so
sudden even after the advanced years of his
long and useful life, that his shadow still 
lingers on our pathway and it is difficult to
realize that we shall see him no more in our
midst in the assemblies of the Saints.

[Column 2]
	Sketches of President Woodruff’s life
have been written by some of our ablest
men, and in our small paper it is impossi-
ble to do justice to the remarkable career,
public and private of one whose days have
been so rich in interesting incidents and so
replete in experiences of an eventful char-
acter.
	President Woodruff is of Puritan
lineage of English descent and was born
March 1, 1807, in Connecticutt in Hartford
Co., in the town of Farmington, now called
Avon; his forefathers were among the first
settlers in Hartford county. He inclined
to be religious from his boyhood but did
not become connected with any of the 
churches until he heard the Gospel of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	On December 29, 1833, he heard
Elders Zera Pulsipher and Elijah Cheeny
preach the Gospel as proclaimed by Joseph
Smith and also read from the Book of Mor-
mon, he was convinced of the truth and
two days afterwards was baptized and con-
firmed by Elder Pulsipher. He shortly
after went to Kirtland and became acquaint-
ed with the Prophet Joseph. On the first
of May the same year he went up to Mis-
souri with Zion’s Camp. January 13, he
started on his first mission without purse or
scrip to preach the Gospel and traveled in
Arkansas, Tennessee and Kentucky. This
was the commencement of his missionary
life. From that time he devoted himself
the greater part of his time to carrying the
Gospel to the nations in our own and fore-
ign lands. While away proclaiming the
Gospel he received word that he had been
chosen by revelation to fill a vacancy in the
Council of the Twelve Apostles, and that
he was to go to Far West, Missouri, and 
prepare to take a mission to England. April
26, 1839, Wilford Woodruff and George A.
Smith were ordained members of the
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. In Eng-
land in connection with Heber C. Kimball
he performed a wonderful mission which is 
definitely recounted in the history of the
Church. Afterwards he filled several other
missions, and August 28, 1844, was sent
from Nauvoo to preside over the British
mission, and returned early in 1846 just as
the first company of Saints were leaving for
the West.
	Of President Woodruff as a pioneer the
people are familiar, he was one of the first
company and assisted in various ways to
found this now flourishing State, not only
in colonizing and exploring, but in agricul-
tural and horticultural pursuits and was
prominent in public places in the city and
territory and became very eminent in Ec-
clesiastical positions. President Woodruff
labored some years as president of the St.
George Temple, was afterwards made presi-
dent of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles
and at the death of President John Taylor
succeeded him as President of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	President Woodruff was a most inde-
fatigable worker, never resting except
when he could toil no longer. His journal
and correspondence were faithfully kept up
to the very last, and must necessarily be of
the greatest interest to his family and of 
immense value as a matter of history.
	President Wilford Woodruff’s death took
place in the City of San Francisco where he
was spending a few weeks resting from the 
arduous labors of his office and calling, and
which he was enjoying to the utmost. His
wife was with him and also his first coun-

[Column 3]
selor in the presidency of the Church, and 
everything possible was done to save his
precious life that human skill and the best
nursing could accomplish.
	President Woodruff departed this life
after only a brief illness peacefully and ap-
parently without pain, sinking into a child-
like slumber from which he never woke,
but entered into that world of spirits of
which he so often spoke while here, and
where he anticipated so much joy and satis-
faction in meeting with those famous and
worthy men renowned in the Church, with
whom he had labored so many years in
promoting the interests of Zion and carry-
ing the Gospel to the nations of the earth.
There is every reason to believe his recep-
tion would be a glorious and magnificent
one.
INTERESTING INSTRUCTIONS.
	President Woodruff in a signed but un-
dated document wrote this concerning him-
self. 
	“Concerning My Death and Burial—I
wish to say that at my death I wish the
historian of the Church to publish a brief
account of my life, labors and travels, as an
Elder and an Apostle in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I wish
my body washed clean and clothed in clean
white linen, according to the order of the
Holy Priesthood, and put into a plain, de-
cent coffin, made of native wood, with
plenty of room. I do not wish any black
made use of about my coffin, or about the
vehicle that conveys my body to the grave. 
I do not wish my family or friends to wear
any badge of mourning for me at my funer-
al or afterwards, for if I am true and faith-
ful unto death there will be no necessity
for any one to mourn for me. I have no
directions to give concerning the services of
my funeral, any further than it would 
be pleasing to me for as many of the Presi-
dency and Twelve Apostles who may be
present to speak as may be thought wisdom.
Their speech will be to the living. If the
laws and customs of the spirit world will
permit, I should wish to attend my funeral
myself; but I shall be governed by the 
counsel I receive in the spirit world. I
wish a plain marble slab put at the head of
my grave, with my name and age, and that
I died in the faith of the Gospel of Christ
and in the fellowship of the Saints.
	(Signed) WILFORD WOODRUFF,
President of the Council of the Twelve
	Apostles.”
A WHITE FUNERAL.
	President Woodruff’s funeral may with
all propriety be designated a white funeral.
The services were held in the Tabernacle
in Salt Lake City, which had been beauti-
fully and most artistically draped in white
and prepared for the solemn occasion. The
appearance of the building was such as to 
impress with a reverential feeling every one
who had the privilege of attending the
ceremonies. The floral decorations were
profuse and magnificent and everything
harmonized with the spirit of peace that
brooded over the entire arrangements, and
pervaded the assembly and remained to
soothe the feelings of all, for the entire peo-
ple were bereaved of their great prophet
and leader, and though outwardly all were
calm, yet many hearts bowed in grief with
love and sorrow at the inevitable parting
with one so fondly cherished and beloved.
	An elegant life-sized painting of Presi-


[Column 1]
dent Woodruff—very natural as he appeared
a few years ago—hung in front of the
great organ against the stars and stripes of
the country he loved. Above the picture
were the words, “Being dead yet speaketh,”
the words were illuminated during musical
exercises; the white drapery fastooned about
the organ was in graceful folds and curves;
on each side of the organ were the figures
1847 and large bunches of sagebrush and.
sunflowers further up tops of pine trees; repre-
senting the valley were furze and brush, a
unique and realistic idea of Utah when he
who lay there sleeping entered the valley.
On the right and left were sheaves of
wheat and oats and more floral offerings, a
great bank in pure white. The stands were
draped in white cashmere tied with ribbon,
also the posts and at each end and at the top
of each a lovely bouquet. The folds of
cashmere tied by silk cords and tassels and
other appropriate draping and flowers were
almost beyond description; the coffin was
white and over it was laid a floral tapestry
—inscribed “In loving remembrance of the
children and grandchildren of Phebe Carter
Woodruff and Mary Jackson Woodruff.”
On top of the casket a bank of carnations
and lilies with the word “Father,”—a floral
crown from the Relief Society was placed at
the head, a large circle of cut roses from the
Y. M. M. I. A. with the motto in pure 
white blossoms, “The glory of God is in-
telligence,” a beautiful floral harp from the
choir, a basket of roses and asters from the
Primary Association and many other de-
signs by devoted friends, associations and
bodies of citizens. The entire effect of these
floral tributes was simplicity, harmony and
purity.
	The services commenced at 10:30 by an
organ rendition of a march composed for
the occasion by Prof. J. J. Daynes, and its
effect was most solemn and impressive. The
General Authorities of the Church were
seated in their order in the priesthood, the
opening hymn was given out by President
George Q. Cannon, “Thou dost not weep
to weep alone.” Apostle F. D. Richards
offered a fervent and eloquent prayer.
Elder George D. Pyper and the choir then 
sang the hymn “O my Father Thou that
dwellest.”
	President Joseph F. Smith was the first
speaker, and Mrs. Maggie C. Hull then
sang “The Beautiful City,” assisted by the
Tabernacle choir. Then President Lorenzo
 Snow, Apostle F. D. Richards and Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon each made remarks,
after which the choir sang President Wood-
ruff’s favorite hymn, “God moves in a
mysterious way,” and the closing prayer
was offered by Apostle Brigham Young.
	The funeral cortege was very long and
imposing, bands of music, mounted men
and the National Guard in uniform follow-
ing the train of carriages; thousands of peo-
ple stood on either side of the way to show
their respect for this distinguished man—
the men with heads uncovered, the little
children who loved and honored him united
with the throng of people old and young
who followed the procession to its final
resting place. The Dead March in Saul
and other funeral dirges were played and
the bands all discoursed sweet music by the
way and at the cemetery, where a great con-
course of people were already waiting. The
Harmony Glee Club sang exquisitely the
selection “Not Dead but Sleepeth,” and
Apostle F. M. Lyman offered the dedicatory
prayer.

[Column 2]
	And then the mortal body of this great
prophet, seer and revelator was consigned
to mother earth to await the morning of
the first resurrection when he will again
come forth clothed upon with an immortal
body, eternal and imperishable.
	May the grace of God soften the affliction
to the loving ones bereft, and in contem-
plating his glorious life and exalted character
may they find such consolation as shall,
lead them to follow his eminent example
of truth and righteousness, and thus to be
prepared to dwell with him in the great
hereafter throughout the endless ages of
eternity.
	“Lives of great men all remind us
		We can make our lives sublime,
	And, departing, leave behind us, 
		Footprints on the sands of time.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ORGANIZATION OF THE FIRST
PRESIDENCY.

To the Officers and Members of the Church
		of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints:
	A special meeting of the Council of
the Apostles was held this morn-
ing, for the purpose of considering
important business of a financial character,
at which were present Lorenzo Snow,
Franklin D. Richards, George Q. Cannon,
Joseph F. Smith, Brigham Young, Francis
M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George
Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor,
Marriner W. Merrill, Anthon H. Lund,
Matthias F. Cowley and Abraham O.
Woodruff. During the deliberations the
necessity of appointing a trustee-in-trust for
the Church became apparent in order that
its business might be properly transacted,
and while thus deliberating several of the
brethren expressed themselves to the effect
that the present was a most opportune time
to organize the First Presidency, and so
unanimous was this sentiment that a motion
was made to that effect and carried. Lor-
enzo Snow was then nominated and
sustained as President of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with the
privilege of choosing his counselors. Presi-
dent Snow then selected, with the approval
of the Council, George Q. Cannon as his
first, and Joseph F. Smith as his second
counselor. President Snow was then
sustained as trustee-in trust for the Church.
The Council also sustained Franklin D.
Richards as President of the Twelve Apos-
tles. These several actions by the Council
were all unanimous.
			GEO. F. GIBBS, Secretary.
	Salt Lake City, Utah, Sep 13, 1898.


CONFERENCE NOTICE.

	The Sixty-ninth Semi-Annual Confer-
ence of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints will convene in the Tabernacle
on Thursday morning, October 6, 1898, at
10 o’clock a. m. Officers and members of
the Church are invited to be present.
			LORENZO SNOW,
			GEORGE Q. CANNON,
			JOS. F SMITH,
				First Presidency.

	The business meeting of the National
Woman’s Relief Society will be held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this city on
Monday, October 3, at 2 p. m. A punctual
attendance members is very desirable.
		E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Assembly hall,
Salt Lake City, Wednesday, October 5,
1898, meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. as usual. It is desirable that
each Stake organization of the Society
should be represented by the president or
an authorized representative. All members
of the Society and of the Church are most
cordially invited. The meetings of the con-
ference are open to all interested in chari-
table or philanthropic work.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
						President.
			JANE S. RICHARDS,
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
						Counselors.
	E. B. WELLS,
			Secretary


GREAT EVENTS TRANSPIRING.

	The many events of national interest that
have crowded into this last summer make
one almost stand aghast at the very thought,
and when contemplating their significance
and far-reaching results are completely
overwhelming even to men and women ac-
customed to grasp great questions. Some
of these events are not only important to
this nation but are stirring the whole world.
	One very unlooked for proposition is that
from the Czar of Russia, an invitation to all
the countries that have representatives in
St. Petersburg to take part in the discus-
sion of methods to secure peace that would
be desirable to all peoples, and to check the
“progressive development of armaments.”
Surely the burdens and horrors of war are
terrible to all. The late war with Spain
has awakened a wide-spread sentiment in
favor of universal peace and the settlement
of all differences great and small by arbi-
tration or some pacific measures. It does
seem strange that the proposal for a cessa-
tion from all hostilities and wars between
the nations should come from Russia. The
whole world it is said applauds the Czar’s
purpose and hopes for good results. In
some quarters the fact is attributed to the
influence of the good and great Queen Vic-
toria, the Czar, however, is only the nephew
of the Princess of Wales and the husband
of the queen’s granddaughter. This is, of
course purely speculative. Other influences
may be exerting themselves in favor of a
peace movement, in fact a sentiment of that
kind has been widely promulgated by the
International Universal Peace Society,
which has been holding conferences abroad
in Europe for some years past.
	The many terrible occurrences on land
and on sea besides the war which has oc-
cupied more especially the attention of our
own country to the exclusion of other mat-
ters, speak to the world in unmistakable
terms of the fulfillment of prophecy in the
last dispensation of the fulness of times.
	The recent storm that has been so disas-
trous in the destruction of life on the coast
of Barbadoes and by which it is believed
50,000 people are rendered homeless,should
awaken thought among our women at least
to the importance of being prepared for
famine. Now when the harvest has been
the most bountiful for years is surely the
time to secure grain and store it up against
the day of need of which we have talked so
much and which is certainly coming. It is
well to be wise virgins and prepared for the


great events which are according to the
signs of the times now fast approaching.
	Earthquakes in divers places, and the sea
heaving beyond its bounds, and now we
hear of the great eruption of Mt. Vesuvius,
all these things fill men and women with
fear, according to the scriptures; only the
spirit of God in the hearts and His power
made manifest through His priesthood will
help even those who are trying to live ex-
emplary lives to stand the trials that seem
just upon the inhabitants of the world.
Rapidly the days are approaching when
only in Zion and Jerusalem will there be
safety.

	The November election is not far off and
it is certainly one of the most important
elections in the history of Utah. The elective
franchise given to the women of the State
ought to mean something more than a
mere plaything to be used or thrown aside,
it should stand for sacred privileges, for the
betterment of all classes, for reforms in all
places, for better conditions in all industrial
pursuits and the establishment, fostering
and maintenance of such industries as shall
give employment to all wage-earners, the
women and children as well as men. And
in connection with this the silk industry
which comes nearest to the home, and near-
est to the hearts of the women of this State
must not be forgotten. By all means the
women voters should acquaint themselves
with this subject and if they would they
would soon discern that the State through
its officers in its several departments should
understand that the women’s vote will be
given to the men and women who will
help lift the burden of taxation, and to those
who will introduce such measures as will
bring work for the idle and means into the
home, and whatever benefits the homes of
the people benefits the State. According to
the words of Brigham Young, the late
president and founder of Utah, there is no
industry so well calculated to bring wealth
to Utah as the silk industry, and there is
every facility here for its production. We
as a people are aware that there is heavy
indebtedness to be met, why not establish
this industry to assist in paying off the
debts? There are plenty of idle hands that
should be given work. Think of this sub-
ject, there have been object lessons given
you. The silk curtains made here for the
exhibition at the World’s Fair in 1893 now
on exhibition in Omaha, are said by con-
noisseurs to be fit to grace a Paris salon.
	The October first number of the “Ex-
ponent” will contain a number of articles on
the silk industry, its past, present and
future in Utah, from those practically en-
gaged in the work and from those who have
had experience in looking after its interests
connected with the association, and have
made a point of studying the subject thor-
oughly. Extra copies will be issued for dis-
tribution.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXECUTIVE MEETINGS IN OMAHA.
        
	NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

	The circulars for the Executive Meetings
of the National Council of Women which is
to be held in Omaha have been received,
and a program mapped out shows the scope
of the plan of work to be done or to be at-
tempted. This is to be the last Executive
meeting before the Triennial of the Nation-
al Council which will be held in Washing-


ton, D. C., sometime in the spring of 1898.
The Omaha meetings will open on the 24th of October next and continue until the 29th,
inclusive. They are under the auspices of
the Woman’s Department of the Trans-
Mississippi and International Exposition.
	The readers of the “Exponent” will re-
memember that the National Council of
Women is the great organization of which
the National Woman’s Relief Society and
the Y. L. M.N.I.A. form a part. It is com-
posed of great National organizations and
represents hundreds of thousands of women.
The president of each of the organizations
forming the Council is vice-president in
the Council proper. Many important mat-
ters pertaining to women and to humanity
are to be discussed at these sessions, some
of them are of vital interest to our respec-
tive associations, and it would be very de-
sirable to have as large a number from
each society connected with the Council as
could possibly attend.
	(1.)   The first question open for discus-
sion is “Shall the next Triennial which is
to be convened in 1899 sit in two houses?”
	(2.)   Shall the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States, unite in recom-
mending an amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the International Council of Wo-
men, the object of which shall be to secure
a more direct representation of the work
and interests of the organizations belonging
to the National Council in the International
Council?
	Both these matters are of great importance
and so are the Resolutions which have been
noticed in the preliminary program. One
introduced by Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett is:
	“Resolved, That there be a standing com-
mittee formed in the National Council of
Women of the United States to consider the
case of dependent and delinquent children.”
	This is to be discussed fifteen minutes.
The next one by Mrs. Anita Oliphant,
thirty minutes:
	“Resolved, That the National Council of
Women strenuously opposes the plan pur-
sued by many child-caring institutions of
breaking up families and separating mother
and child, thereby removing responsibili-
ties from those who ought to bear them
and putting additional burdens upon the
charitably disposed in a community; that
the National Council thinks it best to keep
mother and child together whenever possi-
ble; and when it is found that the environ-
ments cannot be elevated, the Council be-
lieves that children should be placed in
families and not institutions. ”


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS.

	MALAD STAKE.
	The Relief Society quarterly conference
of the Malad Stake of Zion convened at
Portage August 13, 1898, President Lucin-
da Hoskins presiding. On the stand were
Stake President O. C. Hoskins and Coun-
selors J. M. McCrary and Wm. H. Gibbs
also Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake City.
Meeting opened by singing “God moves in
a mysterious way.” Prayer was offered by
Counselor J. M. McCrary. Continued by
singing “Up, awake ye defenders of Zion.”
Roll called, minutes of last conference read
and accepted.
	Sister E. B. Wells of the General Board
being present asked to hear reports from
the presidents of the different branches.
President Jane H. Harris, President Eliza

[Column 2]
V. Ward then gave in good reports of the
Portage and Washakie associations.
	Sister Elizabeth Parkinson felt happy in
having Sister Wells visit us, knew we
would have a time of rejoicing together.
	Sister Rebecca Williams bore a faithful
testimony to the work of the Lord, exhort-
ing the sisters to be prayerful and place
their trust in the Lord.
	Sister E. B. Wells of Salt Lake City,
felt happy to meet with the brethren and
sisters here in the Relief Society conference
of Malad Stake. Said ‘‘The sisters of the
Relief Society are advancing in knowledge.
We must be active workers if we wish the
Lord to assist us,and unless we are obedient
to those placed over us we cannot gain an
exaltation in the kingdom of our Father.”
Spoke on the subject of silk culture and of
some of the teachings of the Prophet Joseph
to the Relief Society in Nauvoo. Said the
children should assist their mothers, felt
that the sisters were truly blest here in
having the Stake presidency meet with
them, gave much good instruction on
many different subjects.
	President Lucinda Hoskins adjourned
the conference until 2 p. m. Singing, Dox-
ology. Benediction by John Thornton. 
	Afternoon session opened by the choir
singing “O ye mountains high.” Prayer
by Bishop Enoch Harris. Singing “We
thank Thee O, God for a prophet.”
	President Lucinda Hoskins gave counsel
to the Relief Society in regard to their
duties, urged them to be persevering, take
care of the poor, comfort the sick and heed
the commandments of our Father in heaven.
She had visited a number of branches
around the Stake and found the sisters all
striving to do their duty.
	The Woodruff branch was then reported
by Counselor Margaret Davis as being in
good working order. Sister Elvira Harrison
reported the St. John’s branch. “The sisters
are always willing to do anything they are
called upon to do by those placed over
them.”
	Sister E. B. Wells said that by being or-
ganized in the Relief Society we become
better acquainted and learn to love each
other better with the love the Gospel
brings. Spoke of the necessity of storing
grain, said this work was established by
the direct counsel of the Prophet Brigham
Young. We should have grain on hand
for a time of need. “Teach your children 
the law of tithing, strive to live in all the
ways of the Lord and pay an honest tithing
ourselves.” Spoke on many interesting
subjects.
	Sister Eliza A. Hall bore testimony to
the remarks made by the brethren and sis-
ters and to the divinity of the Gospel.
	President O. C. Hoskins, Counselor J.
M. McCrary, and Counselor Wm. H
Gibbs made encouraging remarks, exhort-
ing the sisters to be diligent in performing
all their duties in the ReliefSociety.
	The conference adjourned for three
months. Meeting closed by singing “May
we who know the joyful sound.” Bene-
diction pronounced by J. Mansfield.
	Another branch in our Relief Society was
organized in Malad Stake on July 10, 1898.
It is also a new ward in this Stake, the
name is Pleasant View, Oneida Co., Idaho.
The following are names of officers: Lucy
E. Wright, president; Sarah W Jones
and Emeline E. Thomas, counselors; Jane
M. Evans, secretary; Caroline Jones,
treasurer.
		ELIZA A. HALL, Sec.


[Column 1]

		SALT LAKE STAKE.
   	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of the Salt Lake Stake of
Zion held in the Assembly Hall, Saturday,
September 3, 1898. Present on the stand
were President M. Isabella Horne and her
counselors, Annie T. Hyde and Clara C.
Cannon; Mrs. B. W. Smith, of the General
Board; Mrs. M. W. Wilcox and Mrs. L. D.
Alder of Stake Board; Mrs. Mary A. Freeze,
Stake president of the Y. L. M. I. A.; Mrs.
E. J. Stevenson and Mrs. E. L. Webb.
	Opened by singing “When first the
glorious light of truth.” Prayer by Sister
E. L. Webb. Continued by singing
“Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah.” Roll call showing a fair repre-
sentation of both city and county wards.
Minutes of morning session of last confer-
ence read and accepted, also the quarterly
report of the Salt Lake Stake and the
treasurer’s report. The resignation of Sis-
ter Margaret Y. Taylor as Stake secretary
was read and accepted.
	President Horne stated that it was with
many regrets that she accepted the resigna-
tion of Sister Taylor. “We would that she
might rise above her sorrows and continue
to labor with us; we would that our sym-
pathy could help her and aid her in her
great trial, for we are loathe to give her up.
But she has so desired and she must be the
judge. We have one or two sisters in our
mind for this responsible office, and before
next conference we hope to have another
secretary. Sister Alder has kindly consented
to act as secretary today.”
	On motion of Counselor Annie T.Hyde a
vote of thanks was tendered to Sister Mar-
garet Y. Taylor for her efficient labors
while secretary of the Stake.
	President Horne further said: “Sisters in
the whirl of earthly pleasures are we for-
geting God and our religion? Eighteen
branches not reported, and now in this in-
complete form our report must go in to the
Stake authorities. It is unfair to those who
are laboring faithfully to receive no credit
in the report of Relief Society workers.
We must not let earthly cares interfere with
the discharge of our duties. Do not treat
our Society and our officers with indiffer-
ence. At our late excursion to the lake did
not our honored President Woodruff say we
were almost as old as the Church, being
the first organization formed after the
Church was established? And did he not
encourage us in our labors which our God
appointed? Shall we then be slothful ser-
vants? Presidents stir up the Society to
the remembrance of their duties. I with
you sisters feel sad at the loss our Church
has sustained, yet not sad for he has gone
full of years and good works. He was
great and grand yet every one of the people,
like the Prophet Joseph Smith, he was
Brother Woodruff to all. When the proph-
et passed away we were without a leader,
but we soon found that God was at the
head. The Twelve lead the Church and
the power was in their hands then as now.”
	A change was made regarding the presi-
dents of branches making verbal reports at
the conferences, inasmuch as many com-
plained that they could not hear them, in
future the presidents were requested to add
on the blanks anything they wished to
bring before the conference, then it could
be read, for it was very unpleasant to sit in
a meeting and not hear anything. Presi-
dent Horne urged the sisters to heed the

[Column 2]
still small voice that whispers to us and
warns us of danger.
	Counselor B. W. Smith said she felt sad
yet glad for Brother Woodruff, that he had
passed away in peace although away from
the people whom he loved. “I saw him
and talked with him only a few days before
he went away and he said he felt so well,
that his death was a shock to me. I feel
alone now for he and I were the only ones
left who received their endowments in the
the days of Joseph the Prophet. We shall
meet the Prophet Joseph again some day,
and may we not be ashamed, having faith-
fully performed our duties.” Sister Smith
also spoke of her Temple work and ex-
pressed a desire to be faithful to the end of
her days.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze said, “May we re-
member the constant exhortations of Presi-
dent Woodruff especially of late, to get the
Spirit of the Lord and keep it. His mind
was so pure and without guile. Remember
his testimonies to us, how he had been pre-
served by heeding the whisperings of the
still small voice, of the great work he had
accomplished and how many had been
brought into the Church through his in-
strumentality.” Closed by urging the
younger sisters to identify themselves with
the Relief Society, making many excellent
remarks.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde gave instructions
to the sisters saying, “When you attend
conference bring a pencil and paper to note
down anything that would be of benefit for
your Society, then read off the items at
your next meeting. Be sure and get the
blanks for your reports then be careful to
make your averages correctly and evenly
balance up. Then be sure and have your
spiritual meetings as well as your disburse-
ment meetings.” Also spoke of the young-
er sisters belonging to and laboring with
the Relief Society to lighten the labors of
the older sisters.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon said, “I realize
that we have had much valuable instruction
given here today from President Horne and
others. I feel that I have need to be more
diligent in carrying out counsel. To get
the Spirit of the Lord and keep it would be
such a blessing to us.” Made other in-
structive remarks.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock p. m.
Singing “When shall we all meet again.”
Benediction by Sister M. W. Wilcox.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m.
Opened by singing “Guide us O, Thou
Great Jehovah.” Prayer by Sister E. J.
Stevenson. Continued by singing “Weep,
weep not for me Zion.” Minutes of after-
noon session of last conference read and ac-
cepted.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson was the first speak-
er, earnestly urging the sisters to a renewed
diligence in serving God and keeping His
commandments.
	Sister E. L. Webb followed giving much
motherly counsel and speaking of the words
and testimonies of our loved leader, Presi-
dent Woodruff. Sister Lillie T. Freeze
made an encouraging address to the young
sisters and paid a loving tribute to the
labors of the aged sisters.
	President E. S. Taylor of the General
Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. followed, testi-
fying of the great latter-day work, its ad-
vancement and duties pertaining thereto;
also dwelt at length on the efficacy of
prayer.
	Sister L. D. Alder was next called upon,

[Column 3]
speaking of the humble, beautiful life of
President Woodruff, the magnitude of the
labor he had performed and his simplicity
of manner, though called to such a high
and holy position. Expressed a desire that
the Saints might all be faithful unto death
as he had been.
	Sister Agnes Cutler, president of the East
Jordan Relief Society, testified that the
spirit of the Lord was with us, and spoke of
the prophecy of Sister Eliza R.Snow to her,
that her missisn was to bless the sick and
the sorrowful.
	President Horne said, “Our conference
has been blessed with the spirit of God. We
are engaged in building up the kingdom,
being organized for that purpose. Gave
some valuable instruction to the youth.
“Youth is the time to lay a good strong
foundation to build our after life upon. My
soul rejoices at the gifts and blessings of
the Gospel. The Gospel is so beautiful
and yet so simple. Are we ready to sus-
tain those whom God calls to lead us, or do
we want to steady the Ark? Do we love
our Father in heaven, and are we willing
to serve Him?” President Horne gave in-
structions regarding the storing of grain
now that God had given us another boun-
teous harvest, urging the sisters to pur-
chase the grain while it was cheap, thus
being true to the mission given to us by
President Brigham Young. “Do not think
the war is over because we have a little
lull, verily it is not over.” Urged the Re-
lief Society presidents to visit with the
teachers and get out those who are neglect-
ful of their meetings, that we may have a
revival in Relief Society work. Spoke of
the duties of parents and children and
made other loving remarks to the sisters.
Gave instructions to the secretaries and
treasurers, telling them to meet together
and make out their reports that they might
be accurate. Spoke of the nursing class,
said those who had signed their names to
aid in nursing the sick poor in remuneration
for their education were doing finely. Presi-
dent Horne poured out her heart in bless-
ings upon the sisters, blessing them in their
basket and store and all their belongings
and loved ones.
	Conference was adjourned for three
months. Thus closed the Relief Society
conference. The Spirit of the Lord was
poured out in abundance. A spirit of quiet
and peace pervaded each meeting and testi-
fying to the truth of the words of the speak-
ers. Closed by singing “How firm a
foundation.” Benediction Sister B. W.
Smith.
			LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	JULIA A. GIBBS.
	Sister Julia A. Gibbs departed this life August
22, 1898, after a short illness of two days. She
died as she had lived a faithful Latter-day Saint
and loved by all who knew her. She was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society of Portage since its first
organization, holding the office of first counselor
for twenty-one years. She was full of charity
and a worker that will be missed by the sick and
the poor who had learned to love her. She
leaves six children and a host of grandchildren to
mourn her loss. As a socie[-]y we deeply sympa-
thize with her family, and feel to commend them
to our Heavenly Father who alone can comfort
them.
	E. A. H.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the [-]ord, yea
from henceforth they rest from their labors and
th[-]ir works do follow them.”


MARY ANN WALLACE WOODWARD.

	On the 14th of May 1898, after a lingering and
painful illness, this our beloved sister passed the
bourne whence none return. The cause of her
death was pneumonia complicated with disease
of the heart.
	Sister Woodward was the daughter of Neverson
Grant Wallace and his wife, Eleanor Carns. She
was born in Erie Co. Penn., on the 17th of Nov-
ember, 1841. Her mother died when she was
quite young. She came to Utah in 1856 with her
father, brother and her uncle and his family, in
Abraham O. Smoot’s company. She was bap-
tized in the winter of 1856, during the Reforma-
tion. On March 27, 1857, she was married to
Elder George Woodward and came with him to
Dixie at President Young’s call in 1861. She
carded and spun a five pound bunch of cotton
yarn and took to the fair in Salt Lake City in 1863,
probably the first raised in Utah. When the Re-
lief Society was organized in 2nd ward, she was
appointed a counselor to the president, Margaret
Moody. She was called to labor in the ordinances
of the St. George Temple, March 1, 1877, a posi-
tion she has occupied ever since up to the time of
her death. For many years she has occupied the
responsible position of treasurer of the Relief
Society of this Stake and has filled it with honor
and ability. In her death we realize that we have
lost a staunch friend, a faithful Saint, and one
whose usefulness and integrity cannot be gain-
said. Yet we rejoice that she is relieved from
suffering, and only hope that when our turn
comes we may be as well prepared.

	MARY LUND JUDD.

	It becomes our painful and sorrowful duty to
chronicle the sudden and seemingly untimely end-
ing of a happy, busy and useful life, that of our
dearly loved sister and friend, Mollie Judd.
	On the 8th of July, 1898, after an illness as sud-
den, short and profound as it was unexpected,
she passed to the great Beyond and the haunts
that once knew her now know her no more. The
hearts which were made glad by her loving and
dutiful ministrations are now sad and desolate,
missing the accustomed presence, notwithstand-
ing all are trying to say ‘‘Thy will be done.”
	The existing cause of death was angina pectoris,
superinduced by over-exertion and a condition of
fatty degeneration of the heart.
	Mollie was the daughter of Wilson and Eliza
Brace Lund who emigrated from England to
America in 1842, and married in Nauvoo during
the same year. In 1850 they joined the Saints in
Utah The subject of this sketch was born in
Salt Lake City, Dec. 7, 1860, and removed with
her parents to St. George the same year. During
her girlhood she was a teacher in the public
schools. On June 21, 1884, she was married to
Elder Thomas Judd in the St. George Temple.
	For a number of years in common with many
of her sisters she moved about from place to
place seeking refuge from the stern rigor of the
laws which had been formed purposely for such
as she was, even going as far as England on a
protracted visit. Of late years she has lived in
St. George filling up the measure of each day in
usefulness, striving to do good in any and every
available way. 
	For six years she has presided over the Y. L.
M. I. A. of St. George, and that association has
made wonderful progress during that time. She
was also second counselor in the Stake Relief
Society, and a teacher in the Primary Associa-
tion and in the Sunday School.
	Funeral services were held on Monday, July 10,
at 10 a. m. in the Tabernacle. The decorations
were tasteful and appropriate. Everybody who
possibly could came out to do honor to the occa-
sion. An impressive feature was the Y L. M. I
A. who attended en masse dressed in white
and with beautiful bouquets which they laid upon
the newly made grave, making of it a mound of
lovely bloom
	The music was nicely rendered and all passed
off peacefully and revere[-]tly, much to the satis-
faction of all present, and especially to the com-
fort of the mourners. 
	Sister Mollie leaves a husband, a young son,
an aged mother, brothers sisters and many rela-
tives and friends to mourn her death May her
rest be sweet and the spirit of God comfort the
bereaved, than whom few feel more so than her
loving friends and associates
		JULIA A. PACE, Cor Sec.
		ANN C. WOODBURY, Pres.
		EMMA MORRIS, Counselor.
	St. George Stake R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
[written on a shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[on either side of the logo]
SWIFT THE
AS EAGLE

	Denver is one day nearer Chicago to-day than
it was yesterday. This is the actual practical
effect of the fast mail trains inaugurated by the
North-Western and Union Pacific.—Chicago
Times Herald, Feb. 8, 1898.
“The Chicago Special”
		Leaves Denver, 	4:30 p m today.
		Arrives Omaha,	7:00 a m tomorrow.
		Arrives Chicago,	8:45 p m tomorrow.
	To the Chicago, Union Pacific and North-
western belongs the credit of inaugurating the
new fast train service between Denver and
Chicago.
	This new train is a triumph of modern rail-
roading. It consists of six magnificent cars:
Buffet, smoking and library car, with barber
shop, etc. Two splendid palace sleeping cars.
Reclining chair car. Dining car, meals a la 
carte. Baggage car.
	This is the only train between Denver and
Chicago having the luxurious
. . . . . . . . Buffet, Smoking and Library Cars.
	Westbound, “The Colorado Special” leaves
Chicago 10:00 a m, arrives Omaha 11:55 p m, to-
day, and Denver 1:30 p m, tomorrow.

Dr. Margaret C. Roberts
Will commence her winter class in
Obstetrics and Nursing, on Monday,
Oct. 10th. Any one wishing to com-
municate with Dr. Roberts, address
75 North State Street.
	Telephone 548 D.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s School
	The winter session of DR. ELLIS
R. SHIPP’S School in obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October 11th,
1898, at her office Constitution
building, Main Street, with greatly
improved facilities for instruction in
this important study. For full par-
ticulars please address
	ELLIS R. SHIPP. M. D.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

To the Ladies:
	We have much pleasure in invit-
ing you to attend our fall millinery
opening which will take place Sep-
tember 26th and 27th.
	Our French patterns are more
beautiful than ever, and besides, we
have a great variety of lovely trim-
med hats, ranging in price from
$3.00 to $8.00.
	We earnestly solicit the favor of
a trial. Ladies coming for Confer-
ence will find it one of the special
attractions.
Woman’s Co-op Committee,
	M. FRANCIS, Manager.
53 W. First South, Salt Lake City.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD

(In Effect July 17, 1898.

	Trains arrive and depart at Salt Lake City
daily as follows:

ARRIVE.
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver, Park City
	and Ogden . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . 3 10 p m 
From Helena, Butte, Portland, San
	Francisco, Ogden and intermed-
	iate points . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . 8 55 a m 
From San Francisco, Cache Valley
	Ogden and intermediate points. . . . 7 15 p m 
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver and Ogden . . 3 10 a m
*From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete, Pro-
	vo, Eureka, Mammoth, Silver
	City and intermediate points . . . . . 6 20 p m 
Mixed train from Terminus,
	Tooele and Garfield Beach . . . . . . . 4 00 p m 

DEPART.
For Chicago, Omaha, Denver, Kan-
	sas City, St. Louis, Ogden and
	Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 00 a m 
For San Francisco, Ogden, Cache
	Valley and intermediate points. . . . 8 05 a m 
For Ogden, Denver, Kansas City,
	Omaha, St. Louis, Chicago and
	intermediate points . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 25 p m 
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland
	and San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 45 p m 
*For Mercur, Eureka, Silver City, 
	Provo, Nephi, Sanpete, Milford,
	Frisco and intermediate points . . . . 7 30 a m
Mixed train for Garfield Beach,
	Tooele and Terminus . . . . . . . . . . . 7 45 a m 
*Trains south of Juab run daily except
Sunday.
†Daily except Sunday.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, UNDER MASONIC HALL,
No. 200 West Second South street.
	Telephone No. 250.
	Railroad and Steamship Tickets on sale
to all parts of the world.
	Pullman Palace Car ticket office.
			D. E. BURLEY
		Gen. Pass. and Ticket Agent.
S. W. ECCLES,
	General Traffic Manager.
W. H. BANCROFT,
	Vice-President and Gen. Manager


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1 & 15, 1898.	NOS. 9 & 10.


CONTENTS:
	The Silk Industry. U. W. P. C.—Ruth M. Fox, 
Act. Sec. The Empress of Austria—Helen V.
Kimba[-]l. The Marthas and Marys—Dilbhur. Re-
lief Society Reports.   In Memoriam Dedication 
of a Granary at Mill Creek—Frances H. Hanson. 
Stand by American Principles—May Wright Se-
wall.   Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting—Lydia D.
Alder, Act. Sec.    Notes and News.
	Editorial:—The General Conference. An-
nouncement. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:- "Only a Girl”—A. E. N. R. Red
Tape—Se[-]ected. Evolution—Ruby Lamont.


[Column 1]
	ONLY A GIRL. 

	BY MRS. A. E. N. R. 
Close the door carefully, muffle the tread, 
Drop the white curtains ’round the white bed; 
A pale mother’s sleeping, aye give her rest, 
See the fresh rosebud upon her white breast. 
She has struggled with pain, she has wrestled 
	with death;
Her’s is the victory! let not a breath 
Awaken her slumber, hark! there's a tread, 
Nearer and nearer approaching the bed;
Manly his bea[-]ing—yea noble his mien; 
Lowly he bends the fair sleepers between;
Lifts the frail floweret with womanly care, 
Breathlessly gazing, his lips part in prayer! 
No! there’s a chill in the a[-]bient air, 
Each word falls distinctly and painfully slow, 
Curdling and freezing the blood in its flow;
“Its only a girl ?”—a hush as of death 
For a moment suspended each listener’s breath;
n the pause—the pale sleeper uplifted her eyes—
“I must have been dreaming,” she said with
	surprise,
“I thought that a cold hand of iron touched my
	heart,
While hard, cruel words like a poisonous dart, 
Pierced my soul to the core; I sprang for my
	babe!
‘Its only a girl!’ were the words I heard said, 
And Elmer! Oh Elmer! that voice was like thine;
That hand—angels spare me!—once warmly
	clasped mine, 
As you called me more precious than ruby or
	pearl,
And yet, it was when I was only a girl! 
If a girl is thus dear, then the mother and wife 
To every true man is as dear as his life!”
She clasped her cold hands o’er her hot throbbing
	brow—
The blood had all rushed to that citadel now;
Then her words, quick and scathing, burned into 
	the soul!
Emotion swayed reason beyond her control—
“Its only a girl!”—O man in thy strength, 
Know that God measures souls by their depth 
	not their length; 
The streamlet may wind over miles of fair earth, 
Yet bear on its bosom [-]o proud ship of worth; 
A man may hold kingdoms, and nations control; 
What is that to the birth of one beautiful soul? 
The germ in your strong arms, unfolded with
	care,
May, like Harriet Hosmer or Rosa Bonheur, 
Move the world by their art, or lull it to rest 
With poesy's magic, and balm of the blest. 
The mission of motherhood! Man do you dare 
With sneers stain the sa[-]ctum sanctorum of 
	prayer? 

[Column 2]
This Holy of Holies—this mightiest dower? 
Dare to scoff at the sex in which lies this power?
Ah, where were the Monarch, the Duke and the
	Earl,
Had not each a mother—once "only a girl!”
And whence came thy being, and all the proud
	van 
You marshalled in battle—yes every man? 
The magnet that led them through storm and 
	through strife, 
Was a mother, a sister, a sweetheart, or wife, 
Each closely enshrined in his heart like a pearl;
And yet each fair image was “only a girl!”
It was only a girl that Deity chose
To incarnate the Christ; the story in prose 
Sweeps down through the ages like stars through 
	the night, 
To illumine the world with its God given light. 
It was only frail woman that wept at the tomb, 
And talked with the angels when Jesus had gone;
And woman that bore the glad tidings to man 
That Christ, the Beloved, had risen again. 
Go to the reeking battlefields of yore
And read the records writ in human gore, 
Of woman’s valor, mercy, courage, love, 
And point me to one name that’s carved above 
The name of woman in such deeds as these, 
And I will pray to heaven on bended knees, 
That every child henceforth may be a boy;
That every father’s heart may leap with joy. 
But ere in scorn you breath “only a girl!”
Look, lest you cast aside the greater pearl.
		—Selected.


[Column 1]
	THE SILK INDUSTRY.

	SPRINGVILLE LETTER.

	Ages have demonstrated that immense
wealth has been produced by sericulture.
The Chinese and Japanese date back thou-
sands of years the existence of this wonder-
ful industry which has furnished the
most costly and ornamental clothing the
world has ever worn, even royalty itself
ows its richness of attire, its costliest adorn-
ment to a worm so forbidding to some of
our more refined ladies, as to become repul-
sive to the sight, to say nothing of the
touch. And yet this worm is the producer
of all the silk in the world.
	Only imagine for a single moment the
destruction of this insect, its removal from
earth forever, and what a loss to the attire
of the world this would be. No more silk
dresses, no ribbons, silk necktie or pocket-
handkerchief. Countless millions of wealth
would be cut off and the occupation of
millions of workers. Now I hope to arouse
an interest in every reader of the “Expon-
ent” for this great industry, by submitting
figures and facts.
	Presuming upon the number of forty
thousand families in Utah and that each
family raises only twenty pounds of cocoons.
The bounty alone on this would be $5.00 to
each family, which means $200,000 to the
State in bounty alone; but let us carry these
figures further. Twenty pounds of cocoons
would produce four pounds of reeled silk,
which at four dollars a pound means
$21.00 to each family, $840,000 to
the State. But if each family should
produce forty pounds, which can be done

[Column 2]
in every house that has a boy ten years old
to gather the leaves, this would give the
sum of $1,680,000 yearly.
	I trust this statement will appeal so
strongly to all that they will not allow this
golden opportunity to pass unheeded and
thus prevent employment to hundreds of
our sons and daughters. We have quality,
what we want is quantity to encourage
capital to establish mills.
	President Young predicted that this
would yet become one of the greatest in-
dustries of the country, and the experience
of the present year has proven the truth of
his words.
	Not only so, but once engaged in good
earnest it becomes fascinating, as I have
learned from my own experience, having
produced in my own house thirty-seven and
a half pounds of cocoons this season, which
netted us $9.30 in bounty alone.
	There were only two of us to do the
housework and the additional labor of at-
tending the worms was without hired help.
	I wish to add a caution about building
scaffolding against a wall. Build out so
that you can pass around, and be sure to
commence to hatch the eggs not later than
the last week in April. Our bounty to six
families in Springville this season was
$40.00.
	For further information apply to Mrs.
Margaret A. Caine, secretary of the Silk
Commission, also the pamphlet of the com-
mission. These are reliable guides. All
books and eggs are gratis. Every county
raising one hundred pounds of cocoons is
entitled to a person to teach them how to
reel silk.
			ELIZABETH PACKARD.

		ST. GEORGE LETTER.

	A few words in regard to the silk indus-
try of this country might be of interest to
your readers. During the early part of
this year Miss Horrocks of Salt Lake City,
under the direction of the Utah Silk Com-
misson, taught fifteen married and twenty-
one unmarried ladies who took a course in
reeling the silk upon the half dozen Japan-
ese reels recently purchased from Japan.
The most of them were delighted with the
work and made rapid progress.
	Last spring there were twenty-six fami-
lies engaged in silk culture in the county.
The product so far reported amounts to
three hundred and sixty-four pounds of
cocoons. These when reeled will make
about ninety pounds of reeled silk.
A good reeler can reel this silk at the rate
of half a pound per day. Within the last
year we have had about ninety yards of
silk woven; it was not of the best quality
owing to the lack of experienced weavers,
we are pleased to say, however, that we
have now secured the services of a skillful
weaver, and we hope in the near future to
have some silk that we can put before the
market.
	There are a great many mulberry trees
in St. George, and in most of the Dixie set-
tlements there are a great many; they make
rapid growth for shade trees. In
St. George Miss Horrocks estimated


[Column 1]
there was enough to feed the worms to
make a thousand pounds of cocoons, and
every year there will be a great increase in
the number set out, owing to the increase
in the water supply since we have the
cottonwood water in town. It is not much
trouble to raise the trees when you can
keep them watered.
	There are many men looking toward the
silk industry as a source of revenue and
with that end in view they expect to plant
mulberries by the acre, and in talking with
influential men on this subject they ex-
press a desire to know what to do to ad-
vance it the most. Of course the right
kind of mulberry tree is the first considera-
tion. There has been an increased interest
in the work since we have used the Japa-
nese reels, and also since we have had silk
woven. Of course we have had many diffi-
culties to contend with, but in beginning
on a small scale and getting the silk into
cloth it showed the people that we meant
business and they can see what can be ac-
complished with a little capital. Expert
reelers must be the first consideration in es-
tablishing factories. Now we have quite a
quantity of reeled silk on hand and a large
number of good reelers. All they want is
encouragement. They ask: “What will we
do with the silk when we get it reeled?”
If we had the necessary means to buy the
reeled silk from those who have produced it,
it would encourage them to push the work.
There is not much encouragement to work
unless they can get such pay as they can
use, for they need it. There are not many
who can afford to reel it and lay it away.
	A young lady from one of the settlements
sent me three quarters of a pound of reeled
silk, very beautiful, and wanted to sell it.
We have such chances as this one often.
We give this industry all the encourage-
ment we can and intend to while life lasts,
or until we see it the blessing and pride of
this country.
			ANN C. WOODBURY.
THE SILK INDUSTRY.
	So much has been said on this subject
that when requested to write I thought,
“What more can I add to what has already
been said and written?” Still if I can add
one word of encouragement to lead our
young people to see the value of this in-
dustry I cheerfully do so.
	How many times I have been asked the
question, “Does it pay to raise silk?” and
I always answer, “Yes, it certainly does.”
But there are some things to be remembered.
First of all we must have mulberry trees, it
is just as necessary that we should have
trees to raise silk, as it is that we should
have land to raise grain; and, by the way,
this fall or next spring will be a good time
to plant trees, and let every one make it a
special point to plant several and in this
way a great deal would be done towards
advancing the cause of the silk industry.
	The Pioneer Nursery Company will be
glad to furnish mulberry trees from five to
fifteen feet high at prices from ten to thirty
cents each.
	After our trees have grown large enough,
which will be about three years, let each
one get right to work. Get just enough
eggs so that the worms can be well fed and
cared for, and in a short time you will be
rewarded by seeing them spin you a nice
lot of beautiful cocoons. The next step is
the reeling; this has been a great drawback
in the past, and how many days have

[Column 2]
spent in trying to get some one to reel my
silk and at last have it rendered unfit for
first class silk. But this is now all over-
come; through the earnest efforts of the Silk
Commission we are now enabled to obtain
reels and the law provides for a person to
teach the reeling at the expense of the State.
There is also bounty of twenty-five cents
on each pound of cocoons raised, which has
been provided by law and ought to arouse
an interest in silk culture.
	We have people in this State who under-
stand the different branches of this indus-
try, such as dyeing, cleansing etc., and as
soon as the demand is sufficient we hope
machinery will be obtained to make the
work lighter
	And now we do hope that those men and
women who are elected to represent us both
in Washington and in the State, whatever
their political belief, will appreciate the
efforts that have been made in this direction
and will give us aid, not only by their in-
fluence but will seek to have us helped in a
financial way. Let each one, no matter
what his or her political belief, seek to get
good men and women in office, who will
work to build up this important branch of
work and other home industries in the
State.
	Let me urge the mothers and daughters
to see that every mulberry tree in the State
is utilized in producing silk. Even now
we can produce a quantity and quality that
is surprising. Speaking of the latter, I
wish every one could see the difference in
the imported silk and our own. I had the
privilege recently of seeing pieces of the
imported and the homemade silk compared,
and really the imported hardly looked like
silk in comparison to our own homemade.
	Let us be more united in our efforts to
develop this industry, for it will be the
little that each one does that will make up
the whole.
			MARIA ZUNDELL.
SILK CULTURE PAST AND PRESENT IN
SANPETE.
	Since Utah has become a state the sub-
ject of home industry and especially seri-
culture has received more attention than
for some years previous, and with judicious
protection and encouragement there is no
good reason why it should not become a
source of wealth and independence to the
people of these mountain valleys.
	Owing to advanced age and infirmities I
am unable to take an active part in the
further development of this important in-
dustry, but if my experience in the past in
this line will be of any benefit to the young-
er generation I shall feel that I am not liv-
ing in vain.
	From my early childhood I have been
perfectly familiar with this business. In
my native state (Connecticut) the scanty
income which the farmers were enabled to
wring from the worn out soil was largely
supplemented by the proceeds of a small
cocoonery which nearly every family main-
tained in their own house. An unused,
vacant, airy chamber furnishing the neces-
sary accomodation for the worms with very
little expense, and very much more profit
than where large sums have been invested
in building expensive structures for this
purpose. So far as my experience goes
both in New England and Illinois, large
cocooneries have invariably resulted in loss
and failure.
	In the year 1873 I again engaged in silk

[Column 3]
culture at my home in Manti as an experi-
ment, and my success far excelled my anti-
cipations. I have demonstrated to my en-
tire satisfaction that the climate and atmos-
phere of Utah is far more favorable to the
health and development of the silk worm
than that of the eastern states. The dis-
ease superinduced by the continuous wet
weather does not exist in our dry climate,
and in fact the only obstacle in the way of
complete success is the present lack of suf-
ficient mulberry trees which can be easily
remedied wherever water is available. There
should be no lack of energy in this direc-
tion as an initial step in accomplishing
great results. But in this as in every other
undertaking patience and perseverance are
necessary to success. The silk worm sea-
son comes during the summer vacation
of the schools, thus giving the children
time and opportunity to pick the leaves and
assist in caring for the worms. If they are
familiar with them from infancy as I was
they do not feel the aversion toward them
that many of our young ladies manifest at
present. Also give the little ones to under-
stand that diligence on their part will be re-
warded when the silk is sold.
	In the year 1876 Sister E. R. Snow or-
ganized a silk association in Manti for San-
pete county, and for several years a con-
siderable amount of silk was produced in
Manti by Sister Maria Weibye and myself,
also in Ephraim by a Sister Peterson and
in Gunnison by Sister Helena Madsen.
All these sisters are deserving of much
credit for their pioneer labors in behalf of
silk culture. Sister Elizabeth Higgs has
also been indefatigable in her labors as silk
agent, canvassing the town and urging up-
on the sisters the immediate necessity of
planting mulberry trees.
	In one season I made sufficient silk for a
dress but it was unfortunately spoiled in
the weaving. Two years ago my grand-
daughter raised sufficient cocoons to obtain
$2.25 bounty. She also sold them to Mrs.
Margaret A. Caine for the Omaha Exposi-
tion. She is a teacher in the public schools
but she thinks she can raise silk during her
summer vacation. I hope that many more
young ladies may feel impressed to go and
do likewise. I feel that there is a great
future for this State if our people will only
be wise in their day and generation, and by
wise legislation and individual effort care-
fully utilize the elements within our reach,
which will tend to make us a prosperous
and independent people.
	Let us hope that our new legislature
will give this important subject the atten-
tion it deserves during the coming session.
Let our sisters realize that the silk indus-
try will open a new field of occupation for
their children, which will be the means of
adding many comforts to the homes of those
who are in straightened circumstances if
they avail themselves of the opportunities
offered. Let our young ladies see to it that
their adornment shall be the work of their
own hands and not the products of Babylon.
	And above all let us realize the purpose
for which we have come to this promised
land, and strive diligently to become the
self-sustaining people the Lord designs us
to be.
		REBECCA WAREHAM.
ENCOURAGING SILK CULTURE.
	One of the first acts of the legislature of
Utah after Statehood had been declared, was
the passing of a bill to encourage silk cul-


[Column 1]
ture in the new state. No act could have
been more commendable. In doing this
those who are the leaders of thought, de-
clared their interest in the welfare of the
people at large. They showed their belief
in a great principle that it is the duty of
the State to take the responsibility of en-
couraging industry, of assisting the isolated
and dependent to united action which shall
result to the good of all. The personnel of
the commission appointed by Governor
Wells to carry out the idea of the act of the
legislature were a guarantee that the inten-
tion of the bill would be faithfully adhered
to. Mrs. Zina D. H Young, Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. M. A. Caine and two others,
one in St. George and one in Springville,
should be forever held in grateful remem-
brance by the people of Utah for the con-
scientious way in which they have executed
their trust. It is gratifying to note the
great increase of interest in the silk culture
in Utah from year to year since the silk
bill was passed. The increase of one hun-
dred dollars in bounties this last year
means a great increase in production. May
another year bring still greater increase.
	If the women of the State generally
will give as much time and labor to raising
cocoons as the women of the Silk Commis-
sion have given to the necessary administra-
tive work connected with the distribution of
eggs and testing the cocoons, in a few
years the silk industry will be on the road
to permanent establishment.
	It is interesting to go back in history
over the story of the growth of the produc-
tion of silk fabrics.
	The process of rearing the worms, reel-
ing the thread and weaving the cloth is
said to have been discovered in China, 2600
B. C. The secret of silk culture was
guarded most jealously by the Chinese. It
was death to reveal the process to a foreign-
er, and so perfectly was the will of the
government in this matter carried out, that
it was not until 555 A. D., that the world
east of China had any knowledge of the
precious art. At that time two Mesbian
monks brought silk worm eggs concealed
in their staves to the Emperor Justinian at
Constantinople. Silk culture immediately
became established in Europe.
	France has become the greatest silk pro-
ducing country because there the govern-
ment has done most to foster and protect
the industry. At one time silk workers
were exempt from taxation and every in-
ducement was offered to engage in the pro- 
duction of cocoons. The wisdom of this
national policy in France has been proved
by the result. At the present time in
France silk is manufactured at the value of
one hundred and twenty million francs an-
nually, and from 800,000 to 1,000,000 oper-
ators are employed. It is hardly too much
to say that the silk industry in France
makes the difference in that country be-
tween prosperity and the want of it.
	Efforts in America to establish silk cul-
ture have been numerous but spasmodic.
Georgia was established as a silk colony, but
the vicissitudes of those early colonists are
sufficient explanation of the failure of the
project. Before the war of the Revolution
many of the colonists were successfully en-
gaged in silk culture, but when the war be-
gan the industry was entirely suspended.
From 1825 to 1844 there was a great reviv-
al of interest in silk culture throughout the
country, but one of those inexplicable ex-
citements to which nations are subject, tem-

[Column 2]
porarily suppressed the industry. The
gambling in the stocks of mulberry cuttings
reached a point only equalled by the tulip
craze in Holland. Many men lost their en-
tire fortunes and every one was foolishly
turned from the idea of engaging in silk
culture.
	The people of Utah are quite familiar
with the history of sericulture in this State.
There has been a constant attempt on the
part of the leaders of the people to guide
them to industries of all kinds which shall
make them useful and prosperous. Silk
culture is an important industry to which.
Utah is well adapted by its climatic condi-
tions. What has already been done in silk
culture in Utah is a promise that great
things can be accomplished in the future.
The time should be near at hand when all
the silk required in the various cloth manu-
factories in Utah should be supplied at
home. The thousands of dollars then earned
will help to educate our children, build
comfortable houses, improve our roads and
eventually prove one of the foundation
stones upon which the prosperity of the
State shall rest.
	Let every woman who raises a few pounds
of cocoons in her little home feel that she
is a factor in a great enterprise which the
State is undertaking for the good of us all.
As she watches the wonderful mystery of
the assimilation of the fibers of the mul-
berry leaves and the spinning of the golden
web, may she feel that this wonderful pro-
cess of nature is to be made use of for com-
munity life. The perfect adaptability of
God’s plan of nature to the needs of man,
to my mind, has never been more clearly
indicated than in the development of the
silk industry. May the State continue to
foster it and patriotic women continually re-
spond to the efforts of the State.
			CORINNE W. ALLEN.


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RED TAPE.

	[The following from a Chicago paper illustrates
the too frequent course of events in volunteer,
service.]
	He started to war in splendid shape,
	But they held him in with a piece of tape,
				Red tape.
	He fought with canister and grape
	As well as he could.They were tied with tape,
				Red tape.
	He lived on what he could rake and scrape
	For his regular grub was tied with tape,
				Red tape.
	And many and many a narrow escape 
	He had because he was hampered with tape, 
				Red tape.
	He sickened. They laid his wasted shape
	On a nice, soft cot that was made of tape,
				Red tape.
	He died. His form they proceeded to drape
	In a winding sheet that they made of tape,
				Red tape.
	Let not the symbol of mourning be crape;
	Let the door knob simply be wrapped with tape
				Red tape.


Miss Chanler, of New York, has received
great praise from Lieutenant Colonvi Nich-
olas Senn, chief of the operating staff of the
army who has just returned from Porto
Rico. He says the Red Cross nurse worked
night and day with untiring zeal minister-
ing to the sick and wounded soldiers. Miss
Chanler is a niece of Mrs. Julia Ward Howe.


EVOLUTION.

	“Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after
righteousness for they shall be filled.”
I walk in the radiant glory of a new-born, golden
	day,
As full of calm, fresh sunshine as the cloudless
	skies of May,
And my steps are light as Zephyr, for my hope is
	bright as morn,
And the glow of the day shall brighten in the
	light that is yet unborn.

In the vistas of ages vanished, in the tears and 
	groans and strife,
In the turbulent pulse [-]f the cosmos, in the 
	panting toil of life.
In the chaos all but formless, in the cloud that
	holds a rod,
In the dreary tread of ages I behold the hand
	of God.

Upward and ever upward His radiant beacons
	mount,
And the heart of the world is quickened, by the
	infinite sun it fount,
The Fount of the Infinite Father, so gentle and
	true and kind, 
Patiently striving and giving Himself to the
	darkened finite Mind.

For ages before man’s knowledge, I see from the
	lowly sod,
A white, wan face uplifted in a broken prayer to
	God;
So the prayer hath touched the heart of Him who
	is Joy and Love and Light,
And the sweet response lifts the lowly Heart up,
	up fiom the depths of Night.

Still on in the dim prospective, in the solemn
	march of time,
We read the story of Light and Love struggling
	up to a height sublime. 
Eternity looms before us: shall Humanity’s dream
	come true?
Ah, yes! For the trend of the Soul mounts on
	with deathless Life in view!

Though here in the shadows of earth-life our
	human strength grows faint,
Through sorrow and sin and darkness the crushed
	soul moans comp[-]aint,
Yet Truth never sleeps on the Tower, God’s
	forces of love march on,
And we shout our joy to the great wide world as
	the next black shade has gone.

Though our hearts may be chilled in the night-
	shades, where the saviors of men have stood,
Ever battling with souls undaunted, for the up-
	ward trend of God,
’Tis sweet to know that the irid east for the,
	famished heart holds more
Than even the glorious, purpled morn hath
	promised to hold in store.

And so I walk in a fairy dream with my spirit all
	aglow,
And joy in the light of a day that will come with
	the shadows all laid low.
For the Father’s hand is upon the helm and the
	heart of man will yield,
And evil shall cease for the soul of Christ shall
	garner the whitened field.
					RUBY LAMONT.
Circleville, Utah, Sep. 6, 1898.


If New York had woman suffrage the 
chances are that the ticket would be
Theodore Roosevelt and Helen Gould.
	Miss Helen Gould is going about Camp
Wikoff finding sick soldiers who have no
home and no friends and sending them up
to Terrytown. where she has provided a
temporary hospital of her own.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published, semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at Pike ost Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter.
	
SALT LAKE CITY OCTOBTR 1 & 15, 1898.


THE GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	The General Semi-Annual Conference
held this month commencing on Thursday
the 6th inst., and closing its sessions on
Sunday afternoon, October 9, was one of
the most important conferences in the his-
tory of the Church. The solemn and im-
pressive spectacle of the voting by the
several quorums of the priesthood and the
general assembly was calculated to awaken
the spiritual emotions of every member of
the Church and to make a lasting impres-
sion upon all who witnessed it.
	The sermons and instructions during the
conference have been particularly spiritual
in their character, although some temporal
matters have necessarily been brought to
the attention of the people in a forcible
way, which cannot but be beneficial in the
daily lives of those who are striving to
build up a great commonwealth, and to es-
tablish principles of economy, industry and
thrift, as shall prove to those who receive
the same their faith by their works.
	The great need of faith in God has been
one of the strong points in all the teaching
given, and the need of a living and abiding
testimony of the truth of the Gospel as re-
vealed in this last dispensation. The pros-
perity of the people in these valleys, the
abundance of good things of this life en-
joyed by those who have settled here in
Utah under such adverse circumstances,
the great work of gathering the Saints
from other lands, and many other subjects
were treated upon by the speakers, and the
future awaiting those who remained faith-
ful to their covenants entered into and obli-
gations resting upon them were plainly set
forth to the understanding of all present.
	The music has been of the highest class,
indeed everything has been done to uplift
and encourage the Saints, and one cannot
help feeling that those who came to be fed
with the bread of life have received each a
portion in due season and it has created a
feeling of confidence in the hearts of those who
hearkened and heard—that these who pre-
side here upon the earth do indeed have
communion with Him who rules and reigns
over the destinies of the children of men,
and that they know the mind and will of
the Lord from day to day and from time to
time concerning Zion. A feeling of sereni-
ty and of peace abides with the Saints
notwithstanding the turmoil, strife and up-
rising among the nations of the earth of
which we hear and read continually.


ANNOUNCEMENT.

	The annual executive sessions of the
National Council of Women of the United
States in Omaha will convene on the 24th
to the 29th of October (inclusive) under
the auspices of the Woman’s Department
of the Trans-Mississippi Exposition. The
rates from the West are more reasonable
than ever before, and it is desirable that
women who have means should educate
themselves in the Council idea which is
much more important, influential and far-
reaching than one might think who is not
thoroughly posted on the subject.
	The Relief Society and the Y. L. M. I.
A. are both connected with the National
Council, and every officer and also members
of the great organization should try to get
a proper understanding of the advantages
that occur to the associations through their
membership and standing with other wo-
men the world over.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	There will be an entertainment given at
the handsome new residence of Mr. and
Mrs. O. J. Salisbury in this city in the inter-
est of the woman’s department of the George
Washington Memorial Fund. Utah was
given its proportion, a thousand dollars,
and nearly that amount was raised in small
donations from the school children. A lit-
tle over a hundred dollars is lacking to
make up the thousand and a unique pro-
gramme has been prepared by the commit-
tee who have had the work in charge,
which will be more than compensation for
the price of the tickets. It will not be a
social affair, but there will be music and
other pleasing features and a talk by Cap-
tain Ducat who was in the battle at Santi-
ago de Cuba.
	The meetings of the National Woman’s
Relief Society held this month have been
fraught with much interest and a general
good feeling has been manifested in the
charitable and philanthropic work of this
oldest organization; and the instruction
given by President Zina D. H. Young and
her counselors and assistants has been of a
nature calculated to bind together and
strengthen the work in the various locali-
ties, and to increase the interest of the Soci-
ety in the several lines of work necessary
to the accomplishment of the purposes de-
signed when the organization was effected.
To elevate and uplift the condition of those
who need assistance temporally or spiritual-
ly, to provide employment for the idle and
to secure the wheat that has been gathered
and held in trust as well as add to the quan-
ty now while bounteous harvests are being
garnered. These and many other matters
have been discussed by those residing in
this centre Stake of Zion and by those who
have come from a distance, until it would
seem these topics must be thoroughly
understood.


U. W. P. C.

	On Friday evening, Sep. 30, 1898, the
Press Club met as usual in the “Exponent”
office. Called to order by President Ro-
mania B. Pratt, Mrs. E. B. Wells made the
opening prayer. Roll call was answered
by sentiments from Shakespeare. Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved.
The business of incorporating the club was


brought up. A motion was made by Mrs.
E. B. Wells and seconded by Lydia D.
Alder that the Press Club be incorporated;
carried. Moved by Mrs. E. W. Hyde and
seconded by Ellis R. Shipp that the presi-
dent appoint a committee to attend to it;
carried. The president appointed Mrs. E.
B. Wells and Mrs. Margaret A. Caine.
	A letter was read by the corresponding
secretary, L. D. Alder, from the editors of
Woman’s Work thanking the club for their
splendid report, also asking for meritorious
papers written by club members; also read
a letter from the secretary of the State
Federation in regard to annual dues for
the coming year. It was moved by Mrs.
E. B. Wells and seconded by Ruth M. Fox
that the dues be paid; carried.
	What shall we do at our initial meeting?
was then discussed. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
moved that we meet at Mrs. Bunnell’s home
125 First St.; carried. It was also decided
that the club have an open discussion on
the late queen of Denmark, the Dreyfus 
case and Hallowe’en, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
Helen V. Kimball and Ruth M. Fox lead-
ing in the respective topics.
	It was decided that we hold a business
meeting, Monday, October 10, at 7 o’clock
p. m., at the “Exponent” office.
	A most interesting and instructive paper
on the Empress Elizabeth of Austria was
read by Helen V. Kimball, and meeting
adjourned to meet at Mrs. Bunnell’s, Oct.
31. Dismissed by Lydia D. Alder.
			RUTH M. FOX, Act. Sec.


EMPRESS OF AUSTRIA.

ELIZABETH AMELIA EUGENIE, EMPRESS
OF AUSTRIA AND QUEEN OF HUNGARY.
	The people of Austria and Hungary were 
overwhelmed with sorrow and grief when
the dreadful tidings reached the palace that
their beloved empress had been brutally
assassinated at Geneva, Switzerland, on
September 10. The populace rushed into
the streets, anxiously inquiring for intelli-
gence, all hearts were filled with sadness
and a universal sympathy was expressed 
for the emperor, “upon whose head such
grief had fallen in the year of his Jubilee.”
	The empress was most beautiful, she has
been described as exquisitely lovely with
Narcissus fairness, great blue-black eyes,
teeth of pearly whiteness and magnificent
chestnut hair which fell to her knees; her 
ethereal form clouded in silk-embroidered,
diamond-studded gauze, with large emer-
alds glittering on her hair and bosom.
She was highly educated, conversed elo-
quently, played exquisitely on the zither
and organ, sang well and had great talent
for painting. Her vanity was in her hair
which she had brushed four hours every
day, during which time her reader read to 
her.
THE STORY OF HER BETROTHAL. 
	A marriage had been arranged for the
emperor with her eldest sister. The young 
monarch arrived at the castle of his future
father-in-law for the purpose of being
officially betrothed. He, however, fell
madly in love with Princess Elizabeth who
was yet in short dresses, and breaking off
his engagement with Princess Helen he
married the young sister.
	She disliked Vienna and the Viennese
and she passionately loved the Hungarian.
The Viennese had looked for a far grander


[Column 1]
alliance for their emperor, and considered
that the impoverished family of Duke Max-
imilian, who was not even a Royal High-
ness, was unworthy so great a distinction.
Consequently the young empress was dur-
ing the first ten or twelve years of her
marriage treated with coldness and disdain
by the public, by the arrogant Austrian
aristocracy and by the members of the im-
perial family and in particular by Arch-
duchess Sophia, the empress mother, who
being talented and strongminded exercised
an enormous influence over her son’s mind.
She became intensely jealous of her lovely
daughter-in-law and instigated many of
the stories circulated about her, that of the
staircase of the palace Schoenbrum being a
sample.
	Said a lady of her court: “So much of a
purely imaginative and mendacious nature
has been published during the past years
concerning the empress-queen of Austria-
Hungary by persons who have never had
an opportunity of obtaining authentic in-
formation about her, that it may possibly
interest readers to learn something of her
majesty’s character and mode of life from
one who has enjoyed the privilege of form-
ing one of her immediate circle.
	Elizabeth’s intense horror of publicity,
her love of seclusion and her exquisitely
beautiful and romantic personality have
rendered her the victim of misrepresenta-
tion that is ludicrous and frequently cruel.
Elizabeth, although regarded as an interest-
ing figure, is not one that is popular in the
general sense of the word, hence many of
these elaborately spun tissues of falsehood
have been of an inconsiderate and painful
character. One of the most unfounded of
these statements is the one to the effect that
her majesty has succumbed to the heredi-
tary curse of the house of Bavaria. She is
not demented, nor has she ever been so,
even momentarily. Broken-hearted by
sorrows, which were due to no fault of hers.
Yes; but not even a prey to melancholia so
graphically described by imaginative news-
paper writers.
	Her failure to acquire popularity was
due to her loftiness and great nobility of
character. Being remarkably gifted by
nature and education she was quick to per-
ceive the foibles and weaknesses of those
with whom she was brought into contact;
too honest to pretend with regard to the
same any blindness she did not feel, her
delicacy and purity of mind rendered her
intolerant with regard to the delinquencies
and indiscretions of a mundane’s life. She
condemned openly, and a mere look of her
glorious eyes was sufficient to convey a re-
proach to those whose consciences reproved
them.
	Her taste was refined, fastidious and
satircal. Love as ordinarily understood
was displeasing to her, and no man has
been able to obtain any influence over her;
when they attempted to change from
courtiers to open admirers they found an
impassable barrier between them in her
chilliness of manner. She has been sur-
rounded by all the powers of passion but
has never granted them more than a cool
smile of compassionate pity, those who
call her heartless prefering animals to
human beings, little know the true origin
of her reticence and coldness. She was
noble, silent, brave, resolute, generous and
absolutely truthful in all things.
	Francis Joseph has good looks, supreme
elegance, chivalry and a marvelous charm

[Column 2]
of manner. He is a soldier, a keen hunter,
a thinker, scholar, a satirist and is kind-
hearted. Although he has been drawn into
many so called affaires-de-coeur, he has
never loved but one woman, and that wo-
man is his wife. Not one tithe of the ad-
ventures ascribed to the Austrian monarch
are true. Women of all ranks admire him
and he never was able to withstand the
charm of this delightful homage; his soft-
heartedness in regard to women rendered
him cruel to the one he really loved. Often
at first the empress was angry, too proud to
stoop to jealousy. She bitterly suffered
when neglected, but found consolation in
religion, kind and warmhearted she helped
the unfortunate and consoled them as did
her namesake, Elizabeth of Hungary, cen-
turies ago. In her visits to the slums of
her empire numerous families were redeem-
ed from misery and suffering, many foul
places were purged to moral and physical
cleanliness and many young people male
and female were saved from crime and
shame.
	The empress was an enthusiastic horse-
woman and she smoked cigarettes and
strong cigars, which she said soothed her
nerves. It is a pity she could not have en-
joyed the splendor of her surroundings.
	Hapsburg, or Habsburg (named from the
old castle of Habsburg in Aargan, Swtzer-
land older name, Hawks Castle,) an ancient
and illustrious family to which belongs the
reigning sovereign of Austria. The castle,
which was built by Werner, Bishop of
Strassburg, 1001—29, is now in ruins, only
the walls of the tower remaining. The
founder of the house, however, was Albert,
who is mentioned as the Count of Hapsburg
in 1153. Under him and his son Rudolf I.
the family became the most powerful in
southern Germany and gained control of a
considerable part of Switzerland.
	The first German emperor of this family
was Rudolf I., who founded the Austrian
house which from 1438 to 1806 held the
German imperial crown, and since that
time has held that of Austria. In Spain,
Burgundy, Tuscany and Modena Haps-
burg monarchs, but of the Spanish line,
have also borne sway. The Spanish line
sprung from Charles V., whose father was
a son of Maximilian I., and whose mother
was a daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella.
When he abdicated in 1555 he left his Aus
trian possessions and the imperial crown of
Germany to Ferdinand I., Spain and the
Netherlands to his son, Philip II. With
Charles II. the Spanish line of the house of
Hapsburg became extinct 1700, and the
Spanish war of succession began, which left
Spain to the house of Bourbon.
	In 1881 it was proposed to purchase the
Castle of Hapsburg and present it to the
crown prince of Austria, but the people of
Aargan opposed it so violently the project
was abandoned. Imagine what it is to be
there where their wealth has been accumu-
lating for ages. Vienna, the imperial capi-
tal of Austria-Hungary, on the right bank
of the Danube, where occurs the only break
in the great chain of the Alps and Carpath-
an mountains which divide the northwest-
ern from the southwestern part of Central
Europe. Hence it was chosen by the
Romans as a place worthy of settlement
and fortification against the tribes north of
the Danube. During the middle ages it be-
came a great centre of trade between the
north, south, east and west, and thus ac-
quired a cosmopolitan character which

[Column 3]
renders it one of the most interesting and,-
beautiful cities of Europe. The city lies at
the base of the double-peaked Thahlenberg
(Bald mountain) on which is seen the border
of the Viennese woods, whose beauty,
render the environs of the city most attrac-
tive. The public and private buildings in-
clude some of the finest of modern architec-
ture. The Court theatre is of white marble 
and its sculptures, in portraits and allegorical
figures, tell the story of the world’s drama.
Two imperial museum buildings of great
extent face each other across a square, in
the center of which stands Conova’s great
monument of Maria Theresa, surrounded
by flowers and shrubbery amid which play
the waters of four exquisite marble foun-
tains.
	In the king’s palace the grand stairway
and entrance hall are most beautiful. As
you enter the palace there is a grotto of
shells with fountain. In the Crown room
are portraits in court costume of the present
emperor and empress. The palaces are so
beautiful one leaves them with regret.
Now that the empress rests in the solemn,
silent vaults of the Capuchin church where 
so many of the Hapsburgs are resting in
silver and in bronze coffins on the stone
floor beneath the arches, her many virtues
will become prominent.
				HELEN V. KIM
Read at the U. W. P. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE MARTHAS AND MARYS.

	In Luke chapter 10, verses 41-42, we
find the words, “Martha, Martha, thou art
careful and troubled about many things,
but Mary hath chosen the better part which
shall not be taken from her.”
	Now God forbid that I should be irrever-
ent or question the sayings of the Master, 
but it seems to me He was rather hard on
Martha on that occasion. I can only think
that the whole is not told and that there is 
more than we see in the Savior’s words.
	Martha was cumbered with much serv-
ing we are told, and it seems as if Mary
instead of lending a helping hand was sit-
ting at Jesus’ feet drinking in His wonder- 
ful words; perhaps he was expounding to
her the principles of the Gospel not perfect-
ly understood by her, and she in her rapt
attention forgot her sister laborers. But
Martha was working for Him, she was pre- 
paring the feast at which He was to join, 
but why was she less honored in her duties
than her sister? Doubtless she would
have liked to hear His wonderful words too,
but He might have had to depart or retire
supperless had she done so. I have often
thought of these words and wondered at
them
	There are many toiling Marthas today
who would gladly take the place of the
Marys, but by reason of their multifarious
duties have not the time.
	I picture before me a good and worthy
sister spending her life and her means in
every good act that comes in her way,
in fact giving her time and substance in the
service of the Master, her name honored,
her very presence felt and a murmur of
blessing following her on every side. I see
another sister whose aspirations are as high, 
whose love of the Master is as great and
who would gladly devote her life to His
ministry but who is poor and has to toil for
her daily bread, and has but little time to
devote to the better part. Her toils are


unrecognized, there is no murmur of ap-
plause, no one rises to call her blessed.
In the hereafter when the good Lord
judges all flesh, can it be possible that she
will have less glory than her more favored
sister?
	I see a patient, untiring mother with only
small means toiling from morning to night
for her husband and children with little or
no encouragement, (by the way, husbands
might often lift a great weight of care by
saying a cheering word of praise, they do
not think, how dear such trifles are to the
weary and careworn wife,) but still she
toils on. There are thousands of Marthas
bearing many heartaches that are not able
to take the place of the Marys, and whose
inmost soul cries out, “Bless me also, even
me O Lord!”
	The Master knew Martha well, for we
are told “He loved Martha and her sister,”
so she must have been thoroughly under-
stood by Him. Then why the rebuke?
Surely, surely there is a crown of glory for
the Marthas also!
	I shall be glad if any sister or brother
will throw a little light on the Savior’s
words, which I acknowledge I am unable
to understand.
					DILBHUR.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

ONEIDA STAKE
	Minutes of the Oneida Stake Relief Soci-
ety quarterly conference held in the Frank-
lin meeting house, Sep. 13, 1898.
	Morning Session: On the stand were
Stake President Elizabeth Fox, Counselor
Mary Hawks and Sister Elizabeth J. Stev-
enson of Salt Lake City. Meeting opened
by singing “Guide us O, Thou Great Jeho-
vah” Prayer by Sister Phebe McNeil.
singing “We thank Thee O, God for a
prophet.” The minutes of the previous
conference were read and approved.
	President Fox was pleased to see so
many present, as the Stake had been divid-
ed recently there would not be so many
wards represented as heretofore, there being
but twelve wards left in the Stake instead
of twenty-seven.
	President Phebe McNeil reported the
Fairview ward; Julia Ropen, Preston; L.
B. Benson, Whitney; Annie Challis, Frank-
lin. All are in a flourishing condition both
spiritually and financially.
	Counselor Mary Hawks said: “It takes
energy to push any great cause along. We
have cause to be proud of the noble women
at the head of these organizations. There
are also women of the world doing noble
deeds. We should watch our youth, many
allurements surround them, infidelity
abounds on the earth.”
	Sister E. J. Stevenson felt pleased to be
present. Said we had already heard many
truths, considered it a privilege in hearing
the minutes of the first organization of the
Relief Society of the Church. It is quite
proper for the young ladies to join these
associations We should teach our
daughters to be good housewives, indus-
trious workers and not mortgage our homes
for the vanities of the world. We shall be
tried all we can stand.
	Singing “O, Jesus the Giver.” Bene-
diction by Counselor Mary Hawks.
	Afternoon Session: Singing “Come O,
Thou king of Kings.” Prayer by James
Challis. Singing “Prayer is the soul’s sin-

[Column 2]
cere desire.” Dayton and St. Joseph wards
reported.
	President Fox was pleased with the ex-
cellent reports. “Our Stake is so small now
we will be able to visit every ward.” Spoke
of their travels through the Stake before its
division, considered it important to gather
in the grain in the season thereof. The
Lord has blest us with bounteous harvests,
we should make every effort to store our
grain.
	Sister Stevenson touched upon the sub-
ject of storing grain; said in the midst of
counsel there is safety. President Wood-
ruff has said the vials of wrath were being
poured out. We must take care of our
health and attend our meetings. Our sis-
ters are being called on missions, great re-
sponsibilities will rest upon our young
people. Advised the sisters to take the
“Exponent.”
	Statistical and financial report read and
accepted. Mary Hawks presented the
general board of Relief Society officers.
All were sustained, and also the officers of
this Stake.
	Bishop L. L. Hatch heartily endorsed
all that had been said. President Fox and
Counselor Mary Hawks encouraged all to
love one another and be united, unity is
strength.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing “Come listen to a prophet’s voice.”
Benediction by James Herd.
				ANNIE HATCH, Sec.
SUMMIT STAKE.
	Minutes of semi-annual conference of
Summit Stake Relief Society held at Hen-
nefer, Tuesday, Sep. 6, President Mary J.
Atwood presiding. Meeting commenced at
10:20 by singing “Prayer is the soul’s sin-
cere desire.” Prayer by Brother Pascot.
Singing “Come listen to a prophet’s voice.”
	On the stand were Counselors Ann Cluff
and Ruth M. Pack, Dr. E. S. Barney of
Salt Lake City, and Stake President W. W.
Cluff. The minutes of the previous con-
ference were read and accepted. Stake re-
port read. Verbal reports were given by
President Ann Harder, Kamas; President
Elizabeth Lusty, Coalville; President
Louisa Wickle, Echo; Counselor Sarah E.
Sargent, Hoytsville; Counselor Hannah
Richen, Hennefer.
	Counselor Ruth M. Pack then addressed
the sisters, advising them to build good
granaries and lay up wheat. Said: “We
have an abundant harvest this year and the
grain is good, work in the time thereof then
your duties will be easy. Get the spirit of
God, have your lamps trimmed and burn-
ing, that you may be prepared for whatever
is before you. It is a grand thing to be a
Latter day Saint. We have to do our
work in this dispensation to prepare for the
future, ask the Lord for His holy spirit to
give you strength to perform every duty.”
	President Atwood introduced Dr. E. S.
Barney who spoke upon a variety of sub-
jects and said: “My only desire is to do
good to others. If you wish to be edified
you must give your strict attention and be
united, that you may draw out the speaker
according to your desires. I am pleased to
meet with you and with one of your officers,
Sister Ruth Pack, whom I was acquainted
with over fifty years ago in Nauvoo and
crossing the plains. You have good com-
petent officers in your Stake organization,
listen to their counsels. Lay up all the
wheat you can, it will keep if well protect-

[Column 3]
ed. I had some bread made from flour that
I had kept fourteen years, it was sweet and
good. I sealed it up in tin cans and it kept
good. When you talk or read to a congre-
gation, or when you pray, don’t hide your
face behind a book or down in your hands,
but lift up your head so that your voice
may go out clear and distinct to the hear-
ers, that they may all say amen. May the
Lord help us to understand our positions is
my desire in the name of Jesus Christ.
	The morning session closed by singing.
Benediction by President W. W. Cluff.
	Afternoon session called to order at 2
o’clock by President Atwood. After the
opening exercise roll was called and six
branches represented. Counselor Ann Cluff
then presented the officers of the Central
Board who were sustained unanimously.
The Summit Stake Relief Society officers
were presented and sustained; the ward
presidents with their counselors as they
now stand were presented and sustained
unanimously.
	Counselor Ann Cluff said: “We all know
this society cannot be carried on without
means, we should have charity not only
with our means, but with one another.
Teachers should enter into their duties
with all their heart and soul, be determined
to do right and all the good possible; re-
member that charity covers a multitude of
sins. I ask the Lord to help us all.”
	President Atwood said: “I am very well,
pleased with our conference, I thought as
the presidents were reporting and they said
there was no poor to need help, what a
blessed people. There are a few that are
sick and when you go to visit them go
clothed with the spirit of your calling and
they will be pleased and comforted with
your visit. Give what you have to give
and ask God to bless the suffering. Your
offers are ‘like bread cast upon the waters,
after many days they will return,’ in bless-
ings upon your heads. We should be bet-
ter acquainted with each other and be
thankful for our homes and surroundings.”
	Sister Barney spoke for some time, touch-
ing upon her medical studies, and address-
ing the teachers she said: “Don’t ever say
you are begging. You are soliciting means
to carry out one of God’s requirements to
assist the poor and needy. What have we
that is our own? Not a thing, all belongs
to the Lord, you are only stewards and
should be liberal. If we were living in the
united order this would all be done away
with, for we would all be equal. Tithes
and offerings bring forth the blessings of
heaven.”
	President W. W. Cluff announced the
time of our beloved President Wilford
Woodruff’s funeral and made a few re-
marks, saying if the sisters are not proud of
themselves the brethren are proud of them.
“Their reports are excellent and you should
be proud of your perfect organization in the
Relief Society. I always admired Sister
Barney’s energy and push. I have been
acquainted with her a long time and al-
ways found her full of energy. The teach-
ers who feel like they are begging don’t
have the spirit of their mission upon them.
You go forth to solicit means to carry on
that part of the work of the Lord, and you 
should all be earnest in your labors. This
conference now adjourns to meet in Coal-
ville the first Tuesday in May, 1899.”
	Singing “Hail Emanuel.” Benediction
by Edmond Eldredge. 
	MARY L. WOOLSTENHULME, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

LYDIA EVELINE CARTER HALES. 
	Died at Bountiful, Utah, August 18, 1898, of
dysentery and old age, Mrs. Lydia Eveline Carter
Hales, wife of Stephen Ha[-]es; she has been a
widow for seventeen yea[-]s. Her husband died
in Salt Lake City, Utah, in 1861. Mrs. Lydia
Eveline Carter Hales was a native of Vermont.
When a child of ten years, at her father’s house
in the town of Benson, Rutland Co., Vermont,
Parley P. Pratt came into the town preaching the
doctrine of Christ. At that time her father,
Simeon Carter, was a Methodist preacher and
could quote the Bible with great facility. Elder
Pratt was not long in convincing Mr. Carter that
the Church of Jesus Christ was the one he was
looking for.
	At the time the Saints were gathering at Nau-
voo Mr. Carter with his wife, one son and Lydia
Eveline moved to Nauvoo. Lydia grew to wo-
manhood and was married to Stephen Hales Oct-
ober 16, 1832, by P. G. Sessions. They built
themselves a comfortable home but did not enjoy
it long, as a mob drove the Saints out from Nau-
voo. They then started for Utah; got as far as
Iowa and on account of sickness did not leave
for two years, arriving in Ut[-]h in the fall of 1851.
They stayed in Salt Lake City until 1868 when
they moved to Bountiful, where Mrs. Hales has
lived up to the time of her death. Mrs. Hales
has lived a quiet life and leaves numerous rela-
tives and friends to mourn her loss. She died a
faithful member of the Church.
	Funeral services were held in the South Boun-
tiful meeting house on Sunday afternoon August
21, at 2 o’clock.
							[COM.]
GONE TO HER REST.
	In the recent death of our aged relative and
friend, Sister Phebe Beable Rodeback, who de-
parted this life Sep. 17, at 11 p. m., t[-]is world lost
one of its [-]oblest souls and heaven gained as pure
and holy a spirit as ever entered its portals.
	Being an early pioneer she witnessed all the
trying scenes and annoying times which harassed
the Saints during the first settlement of our now
beautiful State, and with them she bore those
trials with patience and an unflinching heart.
Ever quiet, kind and loving, sh[-] was loved a[-]d
esteemed by all who knew her. She was so un-
selfish she thought always of others before her-
self, and so long as she was able her gentle, will-
ing hands were ever ready to aid others in their
hour of need and distress.
	Her mind, which for her advanced years, was
unusually bri[-]ht, and until the day of her death
she understood ever thing that was happening
around her, and talked intelligently on all the
leading events and topics of the times.
	Sister Rodeback and her husband were friends
of t[-]e Prophet Joseph Smith and often enter-
tained him at their home in Nauvoo They were
also very dear friends of Bishop Edward Hunter
and before their marriage in Pennsylvania we[-]e
both members of that good man’s household.
	Sister Rodeback passed from this earth at the
home of her daughter. Mrs. Rebecca Cook of
Cedar valley, Utah, to join her loved ones on the
golden shore, and to meet the God whom she
had loved and served so long and faithfully. She
was the widow of the late James Rodeback and
wa born in Chester Co., Pa., June 26, 1811. In
1839 she became a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in 1840 or
41 removed to Nauvoo where she resided during
the troublous times there. With her husband
and six chi[-]dren she came to Utah in 1852, being
a memb[-]r of the late Uriah Curtis’ company
	Si[-]ter Rodeback remained a faithtul Latter-
day Saint until the end and has surely received
the promised great reward in heaven.
								L. E. C.


DEDICATION OF A GRANARY AT
MILL CREEK.

	The Relief Society of Mill Creek ward,
Salt Lake Co, have just completed a sub-
stantial wheat bin with a capacity of fifteen
hundred bushels, at a cost of about two
hundred dollars. The bin is situated at
Bishop Jas. C. Hamilton’s.
	The members of the Relief Society, their
husbands, the officers of the Young Men’s
and Young Ladies associations, also Patri-


arch Archibald Hill and Bishop John R.
Winder and wife were invited to assemble
and dedicate the same, Tuesday, September
20. Bishop Hamilton placed his fine resi-
dence and grounds at the disposal of the
Society and the following program was
rendered: The choir under the leadership
of Brother Richard M. Horne sang “Praise
Ye the Lord.” Prayer was offered by
Patriarch Hill. Another song was render-
ed by the choir and an essay on wheat was
read by Secretary Frances Hanson. Brother
Edward White sang a song, and those pres-
ent then repaired to the bin and as many as
so wished inspected, the same. Bishop
John R. Winder, kneeling on the steps,
offered the dedicatory prayer. It was a
very imposing ceremony, and all seemed to
feel that it was a step in the right direction.
The audience returned to the lawn and the
choir sang “We Have Thought of Thy Kind-
ness.” Counselor Mary B. Hamilton recit-
ed a selection, “The Curse of the Dram
Shop.” Sister Sarah F. Boden sang, “Do
They Miss Me at Home?” Counselor James
R. Miller, Brother R. M. Horne, Bishop J.
R. Winder and Bishop J. C. Hamilton each
spoke in reference to the storing of grain by
the Relief Society. President Elizabeth
Hill in a few well chosen words thanked all
those who had assisted in making the under-
taking a success.
	One hundred and thirty then sat down at
one long table arranged across the lawn,
which was loaded with the bounties of the
earth. The young ladies who acted as
waiters, also the committee on arrangements
deserve special mention. After supper there
was music and singing. It was an occasion
long to be remembered, and the unity which
prevailed caused all to return home well
satisfied with the day’s proceedings.
FRANCES H. HANSON, Sec.


[Column 1]
STAND BY AMERICAN PRINCIPLES.

Indianapolis, Ind., Sep. 15, 1898.
	To me it is a bitter disappointment that
our great Republic had not gotten on far
enough to do righteousness and to compel
another nation to do righteousness without
resorting to bloodshed. To my mind there
is a contradiction in the words "Civilized
war," and a more emphatic contradiction
in the words "Christian war."
	It seemed six months ago that our coun-
try would rally all the moral forces latent
in the people, by a diplomatic use of those
forces to rescue Cuba from tyranny.
Whether it might have done so we can
never know; that it did not is certain. Those
of us who deplored the war, as well as those
who invoked it, must feel a patriotic pride
in the courage and gallantry that our men
have manifested in every encounter, wheth-
er by land or sea. We must feel an equal
pride in the heroism with which they have
borne hardships not necessary even in war-
fare.
	But the pride we feel in that physical
heroism, which could not have been mani-
fested without an undercurrent of moral
heroism, must not blind us to the dangers
that assail our country in its hour of
triumph. If ever a nation accompanied a
declaration of war with an avowal of abso-
lute unselfishness, such declaration was
made by the United States through its
Senate in the resolution which disavowed
any intention of territorial aggression. Now
the war being ended, temporarily at least,

[Column 2]
one can hardly pick up a newspaper of
any party, or even a religious newspaper of
any sect without encountering such phrases
as "Our new territory," "The conquered
provinces," "The rightful spoils of the con-
querer." "Our conquests," "Our new
colonial possessions," etc- What do these
phrases mean? Do they mean that as a
nation we have forgotten our disavowal of
any desire to increase our territory by the
war with Spain? Does it mean that we
have really resumed the mediæval standard,
and believe in military conquests? Does it
mean that the ideal of Cæsar and the ambi-
tion of Napoleon have displaced the ideas of
Washington and his associates?
	How can we talk of "Our new posses-
sions?" Do we own the Ladrones by con-
quest? Have we a right to replace in
Cuba the domination of the Spaniard by
the domination of the United States?
What is the meaning of this discussion
of whether we shall annex the Philippines
as a group, or be satisfied with taking a few
of the islands?
	These discussions, and the constant re-
currence of phrases like those quoted above
seem to indicate that we are maddened by
the taste of blood, and that the influence of
the war, or of our success in it, has been to
blind us to the principles which we have
avowed, the principles indeed upon which
our Government rests.
	For myself I have never been abroad
without feeling, in the presence of the uni-
formed soldiery on every hand, a reminder
of the blessed condition of my own land. I
have been more proud and more grateful
for our having no standing army and no
navy than for any possessions that my
country could boast, I have heard hun-
dreds of American citizens express the same
sentiments, and have read columns of cor-
respondence and editorial and other news-
paper writing, the sole object of which was
to congratulate the citizens of the United
States on being free from militarism. Yet
now we are as eager to have the largest
navy in the world, to increase our standing
army and to become "a military power" as
Germany itself. Do we believe that
"government derives its just power from
the consent of the governed?" Can we
pretend that we believe this, and then set
up a "military government" in what we
call our "conquered provinces?"
	It seems that one encounters ridicule by
even asking these questions. We are told
that the "Idealism which did very well for
a young nation, for a youthful people de-
veloping under pioneer conditions, is not
for seventy millions with a navy strong
enough to be a balance of power in the
Eastern question." This scornful rejection
of our ideals, one encounters in nine out of
every ten newspaper paragraphs that she
sees, and in nine but of every ten public
speeches that she hears.
	Are we, then, to confess that the ideals,
which for more than a century we have
boasted were destined to secure the ultimate
union of all the peoples of the world in a
federation of republics, are fit only for peo-
ple just emerging fron colonial subjection,
and not at all for people developed into im-
perial strength? Can only the puny and
the few rejoice in ideals? And are these
most precious of all possessions to be sur-
rendered by the numerous and the strong?
	The immediate first duty of every good
American, of every good citizen of a repub-
lic, of every believer in the doctrine of self-
government, of every man or woman who


has ever boasted that our country was a
refuge of the oppressed, and that our
Government was framed upon principles to
which the world in the evolutionary pro-
cess would come, is to expunge the obnox-
ious monarchial, anti-democratic, anti-
Christian phrases that are polluting our
speech. “Remember the Maine,” that
direct appeal to the sentiment of revenge,
“The rights of the conquering nations,”
that direct confession of allegiance to
Ceasarism—let these phrases and all their
numerous synonyms be compelled to go.
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
Minutes of Ladies Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th ward Assembly hall, Aug-
ust 27, 1898, Counselor E. J. Stevenson
presiding. Opened by singing "For the
strength of the hills we bless thee.” Pray-
er by Counselor E. L. Webb. Continued
by singing ‘‘Welcome best of all good
meetings.” Sister Stevenson stated that
President Horne would not be able to meet
with us today and asked the sisters to ex-
ercise faith that Sister Horne might be
strengthened, and her heart made to re-
joice. Minutes read and approved.
Counselor E. J. Stevenson gave valuable
instruction and spoke of the accidental
death of Sister Horne’s grandson. Our
sympathies go out to those who are afflicted
and bereaved.
Sister E. Barrow thought we should live
by every word that proceedeth from the word
of God, and made other good remarks.
Sister Julia C. Howe said: “The love of
the Lord should be written in our hearts.
I think we have been negligent in not
teaching our children the ten command-
ments. Do we instruct our children what
these sins are? Parents should teach their
children all the virtues and then send them
to the Primary for further instruction. We
must teach our children by the fireside.
Sisters pray for those who are bereft in the
death of young Brother Horne, it is a
shock to our dear Sister Horne. May the
love of the Lord be imprinted on the hearts
of our children, and if we do not teach
them aright we will be held accountable.”
Sister M. W. Wilcox said: “May we be
enabled to comprehend the dealings of God
with us, honor the priesthood, exercise
faith in the Gospel, pray for our children
when they are going away from us, and I
believe God will respect us for it.”
Sister Barnes, Sister Martin and Sister
Rawlings each bore a faithful testimony.
The congregation sang “Lord Thou wilt
hear me when I pray.”
Sister Jane James made a few remarks.
Sister E. Webb spoke of the evil of allow-
ing our children to be out at night.
Sister Stevenson made a few closing re-
marks and meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Singing Doxology. Benediction
by Sister Margaret P. Young. 
LYDIA D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


NOTES AND NEWS.

Miss Annie Wheeler, daughter of Gener-
al Wheeler, who had been nursing the sick
at Santiago, and has now come up to
Montauk, has become especially endeared
to the men for her adaptability under all
circumstances. On the voyage from Santi-


ago to Montauk, Miss Wheeler several
times acted as chaplain in reading the pray-
ers for the dead as the bodies were con-
signed to the watery grave.

Mrs. Ellen Louise Demorest, founder of
Demorest’s Monthly Magazine, died recent-
ly in New York City, after a long illness.
Mrs. Demorest had been actively engaged
for many years in philanthropic and temper-
ance work and in publishing the magazine
and other literary and fashionable periodi-
cals. She was born in Saratoga in 1824,
was the president of the Woman’s Christian
Temperance Union of New York City; vice-
president and trustee of the Woman’s Tem-
ple of Chicago; one of the charter members
and vice-president of Sor[-]sis; and a mem-
ber of many other societies. Mrs. Demo-
rest leaves four children—Mrs. Vienna
Demorest Gano, Henry C. Demorest, Wil-
liam C. Demorest and Mrs. Evelyn Demo-
rest Rea. 
Clara Barton will be ready to meet Sur-
geon-General Sternberg or anybody else
who wishes to lay responsibility for suffer-
ing on the Red Cross. It is not likely that
that official will be eager to hear the truth
all told by that straightforward lady. The
Red Cross took the lion’s share of the re-
sponsibility of relieving suffering so long
that Surgeon-General Sternberg’s announce-
ment is ridiculous. He says that inasmuch
as the Red Cross has had entrance to the
military camps since June 9 they must share
the responsibility for any suffering with the
War Department. The Red Cross isn’t
afraid but who is going to “investigate”
the merciful acts of a volunteer organiza-
tion managed by a disfranchised female
citizen?—Boston Transcript.
A small dish of powdered charcoal kep.
on one of the upper shelves of the refriger-
ator is an excellent thing to absorb odors.
It should be changed every few days.


[Column 1]
SWIFT AS THE EAGLE 
Denver is one day nearer Chicago to-day than
it was yesterday. This is the actual practical
effect of the fast mail trains inaugurated by the
North-Western and Union Pacific.—Chicago
Times Herald, Feb. 8, 1898.
“The Chicago Special"
	Leaves Denver, 4:30 p m today.
	Arrives Omaha, 7:00 a m tomorrow.
	Arrives Chicago, 8:45 p m tomorrow.
	To the Chicago, Union Pacific and North-
western belongs the credit of inaugurating the
new fast train service between Denver and
Chicago.
□ This new train is a triumph of modern rail-
roading. It consists of six magnificent cars:
Buffet, smoking and library car, with barber
shop, etc. Two splendid palace sleeping cars.
Reclining chair car. Dining car, meals a la
carte. Baggage car. 

	This is the only train between Denver and
Chicago having the luxurious 
.........Buffet, Smoking and Library Cars.
Westbound, “The Colorado Special" leaves
Chicago 10:00 a m, arrives Omaha 11:55 p m, to-
day, and Denver l:30 p m, tomorrow. 

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors 
to open savings accounts in their, own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW. 
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said 
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired. 
	WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
	GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD
(In Effect July 17, 1898.
	Trains arrive and depart at Salt Lake City
daily as follows:
	ARRIVE
From Chicago, Omaha. St Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver, Park City 
	and Ogden...................3 10 p m
From Helena, Butte, Portland, San
	Francisco. Ogden and intermed-
	iate points................ 8 55 a m
From San Francisco, Cache Valley
	Ogden and intermediate points. 7 15 p m
From Chicago, Omaha, St Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver and Ogden 3 10 a m
*From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete, Pro-
	vo, Eureka, Mammoth, Silver
	City and intermediate points.... 6 20 pm
+Mixed train from Terminus,
	Tooele and Garfield Beach...... 4 00 pm
	DEPART.
For Chicago, Omaha, Denver, Kan-
	sas City, St. Louis, Ogden and
	Park City.................. 7 00 a m 
For San Francisco, Ogden, Cache
	Valley and intermediate points. 8 05 a m 
For Ogden, Denver, Kansas City,
	Omaha, St. Louis, Chicago and
	intermediate points........ 6 25 p m 
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland
	and San Francisco.......... 8 45 p m
*For Mercur, Eureka, Silver City,
	Provo, Nephi, Sanpete, Milford,
	Frisco and intermediate points 7 30 a m
+Mixed train for Garfield Beach,
	Tooele and Terminus........... 7 45 a m
 *Trains south of Juab run daily except
Sunday,
+Daily except Sunday.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, UNDER MASONIC HALL, 
No. 200 West Second South street.
	Telephone No. 250.
	Railroad and Steamship Tickets on sale
to all parts of the world.
	Pullman Palace Car ticket office.
	D. E. BURLEY.
	Gen. Pass. and Ticket Agent
S. W. ECCLES,
	General Traffic Manager,
W. H. BANCROFT,
	Vice-President and Gen. Manager

	R.K.THOMAS
	Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.

	SALT LAKE CITY. 

	The Leading Retail 

Cash House

R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1 & 15, 1898.		NOs. 11 & 12.


CONTENTS:
	The Castle Mountains—Lydia D. Alder Reap-
ers Club—J. A. Druce. Utah Woman’s Press
Club—Romania Bunnell Pratt. General Relief
Society Conference—E. B. Wells, Sec. A Tribute
to Aunt Melissa—J. P. M. Farnsworth. U. W. P.
C.—Ellis R. Shipp, Act. Sec. Ladies’ Semi-
Monthly Meeting. In Memoriam. National
Council of Women. Women Meet at Luncheon. 
	EDITORIAL:—Official Notice. Visit to Omaha
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Autumn—Nina Winslow Eckart. Is
the War Over—Letitia Williams.


AUTUMN.

Dismal, doleful katydid
	Sad is thy song this autumn night,
It speaks of death to the budding rose,
	It tells of the swallow’s homeward flight—
Yes every bud will droop and die,
And every bird will southward fly.

The bees that in the forest rove,
	Have gathered in their winter’s store,
And soon will hide themselves away,
	Where we shall hear their songs no more—
Happy, busy little bee,
Sadly do we part with thee.

The meadow brook must speed away
	And join the river deep and wide,
The squirrels must cease their merry play,
	And in the giant oak tree hide—
Frisking squirrel and babbling brook,
We give to both a last, long look.

Waving trees with golden garb,
	Softly sigh of dreary days,
And beyond the hill crest high
	See the veil of gathering haze—
Hark! I hear a mournful bell,
	’Tis sweet summer’s funeral knell.

Summertime with beauty rare,
	Decked with flowers rich and gay,
Strewing sunshine everywhere,
	Why—Oh! why canst thou not stay?
An echo through the mountain rings,
And sorrowfully this answer brings:

What we prize so quickly fades, 
	All we love must someday die,
Even thou must leave us soon,
	And soar above yon azure sky,
There summertime with garlands fair
A crown will make which thou shalt wear.
			NINA WINSLOW ECKART.


[Column 1]
THE CASTLE MOUNTAINS.
	The day is a clear and a beautiful one,
just as heralded by the early dawn whose
rosy tints are painted on the sombre gray
that envelopes the earth like the folds of a
mantle. Soon we are bestirring ourselves
making preparations for a long drive over
to Huntington in Emery Co. Fresh
breezes come stealing down from the moun-
tains with exhilarating effect as we present-
ly start out on our journey. All are so
cheerful and companionable, earnestly en-
gaging in thoughtful conversation, some-
times bantering about the good roads which

[Column 2]
we momentarily expect to find, although
they seem to ever evade us.
	Up the mountain, through the cañons,
down into the valleys, always failing to
find the best road, but being hopeful we
freely converse, scarcely realizing how long
the way we have to go.
	Here we are on the buckboard slats so
well and aptly named, as we are thorough-
ly bumped in riding over the many undula-
tions still searching for the best roads and
which ever one we take we sigh that we
had not taken the other; but as no break-
downs are in evidence we boldly defy fate
and ride on to victory or death.
	These are the Castle mountains! this
beautiful chain now full in view challenges
our admiration, and one could well believe
that just beyond those towering peaks lies
the famous Robbers Roost, where the rob-
bers securely retire up a a steep precipice,
and at the opening on top one man can
guard the haunts invested by the law
breakers.
	Turning a mountain that rises suddenly
a seeming city rises full in view. The
mountains are appropriately named, for
they indeed resemble castles such as we
read of in the old Fuedal times, whose em-
bankments rise almost perpendicularly, and
we can fancy the moat must be there and
where, the drawbridge being raised, they
are almost inpregnable to all enemies.
Golden shadows of light reflect below them
showing of their grand designs to perfec-
tion, and the traveler imagines that many
magnificent cities lie just over there. None
of their inhabitants are visible, but then
they may have slept so long that they have
forgotten to wake. Ages of silence have
passed, that now is interrupted by the en-
gine bell and the rattling of wheels. In
meditation we gaze on these vast and
wonderful piles of rocks and their solemn
silence guards well their secrets of long ago.
Were they once cities with high domes
pointing heavenward? They appear so
real that one does not readily recall the
wandering thoughts that turning backward
scan the past whose history these mute
sentinels guard so well. Some are high
and rugged, others square with sudden
defiles, others look like turrets where the
bells were wont to wildly ring for joy and
gladness, or to toll for loss or pain in sad-
ness.
	Pretty Huntington so well laid out comes
into view as we descend the mountains.
And such a warm welcome we receive,
and such true hearts we meet, making our
sojourn both pleasant and profitable. But
all friends must part and so we leave these
pleasant associations and return to loving
welcomes in Price, a growing and prosper-
ous town where only a dozen years ago
scarcely a house stood, yet now the water
flows on either side of the streets and rows
of shade trees adorn them. How pleasant
the memory of friends we met here! On a
Sabbath morn when a holy hush falls on
the weary heart we leave for Castle Gate.
parting with one of our companions whom
we miss. There by kindest invitation we
are to spend this lovely day.

[Column 3]
	The iron monster comes screeching
along, waiting a moment while we enter
then away for only a short ride. Twenty
minutes at Helper. What a lovely spot!
After crossing the bleak and dreary summit
it seems like a veritable oasis in a desert,
yet amid the grandest scenery. Lawns
tastefully laid out as green as in the spring- 
time, houses freshly painted with electric
wires attached, a large hotel, everything
in a bustle, escaping steam from the iron
horse, loading and unloading freight, then
onward again to visit at Castle Gate. We
are met at the depot by the Bishop and one
of his counselors also the Bishop’s wife,
all bidding us welcome. A glad touch of
hands and we have been long acquainted.
Here the well known Castle Gate coal is
mined in large quanties by these sturdy
Welsh people who dwell in these clean
looking red houses with white painted
window and door frames, grouped here and
there in the little valley. Early and late
these miners toil taking out the treasures
from these everlasting hills, which have
been hidden from time immemorial.
	Meeting with the Sabbath School we are
charmed with the interest manifested, and
feel proud of the superintendent who so
pleasantly invites us to visit at his home.
Meeting in the afternoon, the Lord’s Sup-
per so reverently administered amid the
glorious strains of melody from the Welsh
choir. Even as the surrounding mountains
soar high in triumph then descend in hu-
mility, so sang this choir in this lovely spot
so far away it seems from the haunts of
men.
	In the evening how the lurid flames
burst out from the coke furnace, gilding the
nearest mountains with deepest crimson.
At their feet the Castle river booms over
hugh bolders of rock, dashing the spray on
its unceasing journey to the sea. The wind
rises and shrieking blows over the moun-
tains, carrying the furnace flames high in
the air. Truly the scene is magnificent,
but wild beyond compare and one could
fancy it a view of Hades. Still the wind
rises; the reflections of the roaring flames
seem to beat out fury against the rugged
mountains which seem to restrain their
blazing advances. The storm bursts; the
wind rushing and sobbing, then roaring as
though destruction were near. The rain
descends, the wind more sullenly blows,
and though the rain subsides the wind
holds high carnival through the night.
Once more we view the scene so grand, yet
breathing a sense of solemn awe.
	On the morrow good bye again and fare-
well to these good and noble friends, and
may we meet again. The rushing train
slows up, we step aboard, then hence to the
city by the Great Salt Lake.

	As we travel on o’er [-]ife’s rough journey,
		How oft we cross the street Good Bye! 
	At morn clasp hands whose touch is gladness,
		At eve to part with many a sigh.

	But this is life, Good Bye, Good Bye,
		Ye first we’ve met, e’er yet we part,
	To meet is joy, the parting’s pain,
		And presses heavy on the heart.


The time will come when no Good Byes,
	Will ever jar upon the ear;  
We’ll meet, we’ll meet with no farewells,
	Where never’s known the falling tear.
But on life’s way, steep mountains frowning,
	Bar the traveler from a world so fair;
Where o’er the summits bright, unchanging,
	Is the City Golden. May we meet up there.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
October, 1898.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
REAPERS CLUB.
	Extracts from the minutes of the Reaper’s
Club meeting held on the 12th of Septem-
ber, 1898, at the “Woman’s Exponent”
office:
	An interesting paper on the “Ruins of
Central America” was read by Mrs. J.
Druce. She stated that in 1839 Mr. J. L.
Stephens was intrusted with a special mis-
sion to Central America by President Mar-
tin Van Buren. He visited the ruins in
that country, including Copan, Chiapas,
Yucatan and others, Mr. Stephens found
on the left bank of the Copan river in Hon-
duras, an ancient and mysterious city situ-
ated about three hundred miles from the
sea.
	A Spanish historian of Guatemala stated
that in 1530 the Cacique of Copan and
others were engaged in a revolt against
Spanish rule, and being determined to sub-
due them the Spaniards laid siege to the
city known as Copan, which at that time
was one of the largest and most popular in
the kingdom. After a desperate battle the
Cacique and his auxiliaries being unable to
resist their foe retreated and left Copan to
its fate. The place described by this
Spanish writer must have had reference to
some other city, as the massive stone
structures and columns showed no signs
of any such battle having occurred.
	Francisco Fuentes mentioned that in the
year 1700 the great Circus of Copan still re-
mained entire. “At a short distance from
this stood a wall with a gateway and pas-
sage leading to two fine pyramids from
which was suspended a hammock contain-
ing two human figures. It appeared to be
entirely of one stone and of enormous
weight, yet was put in motion by the
slightest movement of the hand.”
	From 1700 until 1836 no mention had
been made of these ruins. In the latter
year Colonel Galendo under a commission
from the government of Central America
visited Copan and other ruins of that coun-
try, but of his report very little is known.
	In 1840 Mr. J. L. Stephens explored
some of those places especially Copan and
in order to save trouble with the natives
he pruchased from them about 6,000 acres
of land on which the ruins were situated.
The remains of Copan City extended for
two miles along a river of the same name,
and comprised the walls of a temple 62
feet long.”
	Mr. Stephens said: “Cutting our way
through dense woods we came to a square
column fourteen feet high and three feet on
each side, sculptured in very bold relief
from the base to the top. On the front
was the figure of a man curiously and rich-
ly dressed, whose face was evidently a por-
trait. The sides were covered with hiero-
glyphics. Before it and about three feet
away was a large block of stone, sculptured
with figures and supposed to have been an
altar.”

[Column 2]
	The hieroglyphics, figures, etc., found
among these ruins were beautifully carved
and of the finest workmanship.” These
and other discoveries prove that the people
who once occupied this American Conti-
nent were a cultured and enlightened race.
“The whole extent occupied by these remains
of a once great civilization was covered
with trees. Two of them were gigantic
ciebas over twenty feet in circumference,
binding down the ruins and shading them
with their branches. Who were the build-
ers of this city? Historians say that
America was peopled by savages, but such
a class never reared these structures. The
fine carving on stone was the work of an
enlightened race who must have been edu-
cated in the arts and sciences of their day.
The Indians were asked who made these
monuments, etc., and their answer was,
‘Who knows?’ At one point on the south-
east corner of an enclosure is a massive
pyramidal structure 120 feet high.
	On the right are also remains of terraces,
pyramidal buildings and a gateway twenty
feet wide, the latter entering into a quad-
rangular area 250 feet square, two sides of
which are pyramids 120 feet high.
	At different points of this area are numer-
ous remains of sculpture. Lying on the
ground was a remarkable portrait, probably
of some king or chieftan. The expression
was noble. Near this stood a column alone
with its face to the east. It was 13 feet
high. 4 feet front 3 feet deep and sculp-
tured on all four sides. Originally it was
painted or enameled red, the color being
still visible.
	At a distance of perhaps 8 feet was another
large, elaborately sculptured stone with
rows of hieroglyphics on three of its sides. 
	Following the wall was still another of
the same size and similar in appearance.
	Turning north on the left was found a
high pyramidal structure. The range of
ruins continued on this side for about 400
feet, then turned at right angles to the left
and ran to the river, joining the other ex-
tremity of the wall at which the survey
commenced.
	There was another monument of differ-
ent shape, being larger at the top than be-
low, and the carvings on that was in low
relief. It alao had hieroglyphics.”
	Near the latter obelisk they found a very
remarkable altar, which stood on four globes
cut out of the same stone from which the
other portion of the structure was made,
the sculpture on this being in bas relief.
It was the only specimen of that kind of
carving found at Copan, all the others were
in bold relief. “This altar was six feet
square and 4 feet high, the top being di-
vided into 36 tablets inscribed with hiero-
glyphics, which probably recorded the his-
tory of great events in the lives of that
people. On each of the four sides of this
altar were carved four figures. The two
principal personages were on the west side
and facing each other. The serpent was
introduced in sculpture, reminding one of
the Egyptian methods of honoring their
heroes or kings. The head dresses were
curious and complicated, and the figures on
the altar all had breastplates.
	One of the two principal of these held in
his hand an object which seemed to be a
sceptre, and each of the others was hold-
ing something which might have been a
weapon of war, but if so, it was the only
representation of that kind of weapon found
in Copan; therefore, the supposition is that
they were a peaceful people.

[Column 3]
	The other courtyard was nearer the
river and probably may have been the
great circus mentioned by Fuentes, but in-
stead of being circular it was rectangular—
140 feet long and 90 feet broad, with steps
on all sides. It was more probably a por-
tion of the temple, and perhaps had been
the scene of imposing religious ceremonies.
There was found among Copan’s ruins a
small death’s head made from a fine green
stone (jadeite) and beautifully carved.
	How large stones were transported over
irregular surfaces for long distances, and
especially how one of them was set on a
mountain 2,000 feet high is a problem im-
possible for us to discover, or even, con-
jecture. At one point in a ravine leading
towards the river was a gigantic block
much larger than any seen in the city, and
was probably on its way there when the
labors of the workmen were suddenly ar-
rested.” Perhaps the history of the peo-
ple is engraven on their monuments etc.,
but who shall read them.
	These works were strange in design, ex-
cellent in sculpture, rich in ornament and
different from that of any people now known.
	Mr. Stephens made especial inquiry for
the stone hammock mentioned by Fuentes
but failed to find it, although it may still
be there broken and buried. A priest told
Mr. Stephens that he had seen it, and an
Indian also stated that it had been entire
two generations back.
	The existence of these ruins was first
made known to the world through the
writings of Mr. Stephens and the drawings
which accompanied them, by Mr. Cather-
wood. The latter gentleman was with Mr.
Stephens in Central America.
				J. A. DRUCE, Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
 
		HENRIETTA STANDAGE.

	Died at Mesa City, Oct. 11, 1898, af er an illness
of some days, Henrietta Standage, wife of Henry
Standage one of the Mormon Battalion, and
daughter of Noah Rogers, one of the first mis-
sionaries to the Sandwich [-]sl[-]nds,and his wifeEda
Rogers. Deceased was born May 30, 1832, at
Shelbyville, Portage Co , Ohio. Born at so
early a period she passed through every principal
evolution of the Church  experience from the
day of her birth until the day of her death. She
came to Utah in 1850 and was married to Henry
Standage in 1851, with whom she shared in the
privations and toils of Utah’s early pioneers, and
to whom she bore a family of ten children. In the
year 1880 she emigrated from Utah to Arizona.
On her arrival in Mesa, Arizona, with her family
she joined the Relief Society in Alma ward, and
in 1883 she was voted in a first counselor in the
Relief [-]ociety of which she has been a faithful
member attendin every duty devolving upon her
and always on hand to help to relieve the sick or
those in distress; and as stated by her Bishop and
each who spoke at her funeral, Sister Standage
was a live member of the Church, was faithful to
every duty and calli g. From age, experience
and good works she has gone to her rest as a
veteran in the Church of God, leaving a veteran
husband with eight living children, forty-four
[-]randchildren and four great grandchildren to
bear her name in honor and blessing through all
generations of time.
	A long cortege of loving kindred and friends
followed her remains  to the grave to await a re-
union of loved ones in that sweet bye and bye.

	   "Dearest moth r thou hast left us,
			And thy loss we deeply feel,
	    But ’tis God that hast bereft us,
			He can all our sorrows heal.
	    Yet again we hope to meet thee,
			When the day of life is fled,
	    When in heaven with joy to greet thee,
			Where no farewell tear is shed.”

			     ANNA KLEINMAN, Pres.
				     SOPHRONIA A. STEWART, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IS THE WAR OVER?

They say that peace has been proclaimed
	And the dreadful war is o’er,
And the chime of bells the glad news tells
	As it wafts from shore to shore.
The shouts of acclamation rise
	From every heart and tongue,
Of the deeds of valor of our men
	And the noble work they’ve done.

They have counted up the men that fell
	On each conflicting side;
And as results are brought to light
	They smile with National pride— 
As figures do not make mistakes
	But counteth all things plain, 
So we find but few of our boys in blue,
	Were numbered with the slain.

And from the facts as claimed above
	Expressions have been free, 
That from the first no land could claim, 
Such wondrous victory,
Success at[-]ended every move, 
And not by cha[-]ce they say,
But Providence did intervene
	And lead them on their way.

But bear with me and I will dare
	A protest to main[-]ain,
And think it far too soon to count
	The number of the slain,
As there are still, and yet may be
	More added to the dead,
Such is the news that greets our ears
	As the papers o’er are read. 
Oh! piteous sight on those cots laid low
	Those once brave, stalwart forms,
Who faced the dangers day and night
	Through scorching heat and storms.
Seventy hours ’tis said they fought, 
Almost unceasingly,
With purely true, ueselfish aim
	In the cause of liberty.

Oh! do not shout aloud too soon
	Nor count the victory won; 
Till each mother’s boy is in her arms
	That death don’t claim its own;
For there are weapons worse by far 
Than swords that hew men down,
And aggravate their sufferings more 
As fever, chills and wounds. 
LETITIA WILLIAMS.
October 14, 1898.


[Column 1]		
UTAH WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB.

	PRESIDENT'S FAREWELL ADDRESS.

	It seems only a short time ago that I had
the honor conferred upon me of being
elected president of the U. W. P. club
	In retrospective resume many excellent
articles of poetry and prose rise on my horo-
scope, shimmering with brilliant gems of
thought which have gladdened the hearts
and enriched the minds of our members.
	In November our hospitable member,
Mrs.Clarence M. Bradley, entertained us at
her pleasant home where we listened to
Thanksgiving stories of ye olden times and
a pretty original one by Mrs. E. B. Wells,
the evening winding up in a blaze of glory,
eating golden pumpkin pie and sipping the
nectar of the orient, delicious coffee.
	In December we wandered far in thought
journeying over to old, old China, taking a
bird’s eye view of these ancient and
unprogressive people with queues and queer
mode of life religious and moral; who bit-
terly resist any innovation of modern ways
and .ideas. But the fiat had gone forth and

[Column 2]
China too must cast her old traditions upon
the highway to be crushed under the wheels
of the 19th century car of progress filled
with new ideas. The isles of the sea can-
not escape the keen eye of adventure and
they too must come into broader walks of
intelligence. The interesting article on
Polynesia was a report of actual experiences
and eye witness of pictures of the isles of
the Pacific ocean as seen by the reader’s
husband in his great trip around the world.
This and other papers was illustrated by
specimens and trophies from the island and
the far off Indies gathered while in those
lands.
	In January in the very pleasant room in
which we are now assembled a motion was
made and carried that the club join the
General Federation of Clubs. We then
took a trip in our mind's eye to Germany
and looked over her picturesqe country and
peeped into the lives of many of the “Nota-
ble men and women” of that land.
	That night a deep laid and mysterious
conspiracy was completed which ended in
something of a tempest, but loving friends
tried and true held steadfast on their way
and on Feb. 26 a large company assembled
at Dr. E. R. Shipp’s residence where an
ovation was given Mrs. E. B. Wells as a
surprise. It was in honor of the coming
out of her sweet book of poems styled
“Musings and Memories.”
	The crowning expression of our appre-
ciation of her book was the presentation of
our book to her. In this book each leaf re-
flected personally the love and good wishes
of a friend, in original or selected prose or
poetry, with somewhere on the leaf a quo-
tation from her book and also adorned with
beautiful hand painted flowers, expressing
the feelings and tastes of the giver of the
leaf. There are nearly one hundred leaves
in the book, making an unique and costly 
memento of the birth of her brain-child and
also of the seventieth year of her life.
	In March the club had the rare honor to
entertain the world renowned author, F.
Marion Crawford, at a reception they gave
March 22, at the residence of Hon. Spencer
Clawson, the Bee Hive House, Miss Claire,
the young and pretty hostess, making
everything pleasant and beautiful for the
occasion.
	 On March 6 the club met instead of Feb-
ruary 28, when we enjoyed a word pano-
rama of France and were highly entertained 
with short histories of some of her famous
men and women.
	March 31 our program consisted of an in-
teresting paper on Portugal and an eloquent
plea for “Cuba Libre.”
	In April, the month of sunshine and
showers “so full of sweet variety,” the life
and arduous labors of our spirit friend Miss
Frances E. Willard was ably presented and
discussed or new light added to as occurred
to the minds of the members. Also an im-
pressive paper recounting the life of the
brave Zola and a scathing, prophetic poem
styled Hispania.
	May 31 we heard of the Royal Family 
of Spain. Spain is fast going into oblivion
and we cannot weep, for her loss of power
is the gain of every released subject. With-
out a pang we say “au revoir” Spain.
	The month of June, beautiful month of
roses and every sweet perfume, seems as
barren of club history as the Desert of 
Sahara so far as I can find, and come to re-
member we had no meeting that month
but adjourned and went to the concert in
the Tabernacle. But a reception commit

[Column 3]
tee met the ladies from the north who were
on their way to Denver to the General
Federation and gave them a trolley ride and
otherwise entertained them while birds of
passage.
	In July your president received a letter to
the club from Second Vice-President Helen
V. Kimball dated July 8, Alvalon, Catalina
Island, California, Hotel Metropole. How
delightful it would be if the club could
take an outing to Catalina Island and look
through the glass bottomed boat at the
beauties and wonders of the sea.
	On July 30, the regular club day,we had
a most instructive paper on the origin,
work and purpose of the Red Cross Society,
and one on Modern Warfare.
	August 8 was made a most auspicious
and long to be remembered day to your presi-
dent by the members tendering her a most
happy surprise. The most kindly solici-
tude was expressed for her welfare as she
silently wends her way down the shady
side of life, having just left behind her the
59th milestone. A beautiful medalion 
picture of Queen Louise among her people,
together with many most beautiful flowers
were presented to her, which strongly im-
pressed her that life is still sweet amidst the
love of friends and lovely flowers, and that
there is much time left to smooth the pil-
low of sorrow and pain and to comfort the
hearts of the unfortunate.
	No club meeting was held this month an
adjournment having been decided upon un-
til September 30.
	The club members had decided to take an
outing to Saltair in August, but the gods of
Neptune willed differently and we went in
September, the very last day of the season.
There are often two good opportunities, the
first and the last, we at least had a good
one, a perfect day. The few members who
were in town went and lunched together
and had the sweet pleasure of hearing read
a word-bejewelled, poetic phantasy called
“Beautiful Saltair,” written for the club by
our secretary, Mrs. M. A. Lambert.
	On September 30, was rendered an ex-
tremely interesting paper on the sad life
and tragic death of Empress Elizabeth of
Austria. Her life is a most striking illu-
stration that neither wealth nor position can
of itself give happiness.
	Tonight, October 31, 1898, I wish to ex-
press in my farewell to you my heartfelt
thanks for the universal kindness and help-
fulness shown me during the year past by
every member of the club, and I thank you
most cordially for the pleasure and educa-
tion which as president I have been the
happy recipient.
		ROMANIA BUNNELL PRATT.


Mrs. Margaret Black of Glasgow, Scot-
land, is a member of the city board of
education.
	"Current politics affect the lives and
homes of women at various points, from
the cellar furnace to the sons and brothers
in uniform. However closely a woman
may entrench herself in her home and pro-
claim her indifference to politics, the bur-
dens, penalties and results of politics will in
some way find her out. Law and govern-
ment are politics crystallized into power.
The quality of city and state laws and the
character of national policy are determined
by the elections and the men elected. The
mainspring of the whole complicated mech-
anism of American politics and government
is the ballot."


WOMANS EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $l.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at Pthe ost Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY NOVEMBER 1 & 15, 1898.


OFFICIAL NOTICE.

	At the regular annual business meeting
of the National Woman’s Relief Society
held in the Assembly Hall in this city on
Monday, October 3, at 2 p. m., after con-
siderable discussion of the financial ques-
tion how to provide ways and means for
expenses, Mrs. Zina Young Card suggested
that a day be set apart for a gathering of
the Society and that each member pay on
that particular day ten cents, and mentioned
one or two important dates; it was finally
decided to hold this gathering March 17,
and the following motion was made by
Mrs. Julina L. Smith and seconded by
Mrs. Elizabeth J. Stevenson and others.
Mrs. J. L. Smith’s motion was that the 17th
day of March in each year (commemorating
the day of the first organization of the Soci-
ety in 1842) be set apart for a gathering of
the local Society in each ward in such way
as the respective society decides, and as
seems suitable to its circumstances; that each
member pay into the treasury ten cents on
that day to assist in defraying the neces-
sary expenses of the General Board in the
work of the Society. The motion was put
by the president and carried unanimously
by the members present at the meeting.
	On the following day at the regular
semi-annual meeting of the board of direct-
ors a majority of the members being present
in person, the motion made at the general
meeting on the day previous by Mrs. Julina
L. Smith who offered the motion repeated it
for the approval of the Board. Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young, president of the Board,
stated the motion which had been seconded
by several members and it was carried unan
imously.
	(Signed) ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
						President.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,
				Secretary.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO OMAHA.

NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.
	It is known perhaps to most of our read-
ers that some Utah women went to Omaha
to attend the executive sessions of the
National Council of the Women of the
United States. It is not, however, widely
known how important a body the National
Council is consisting of great National
Associations, each of which wields a large

[Column 2]
influence in matters pertaining to the wel-
fare of this great nation.
	Many of our own women who are mem-
bers of the two organizations, the N. W. R.
S. and the Y. L. N. M. I. A., that are
affiliated with the National Council, think it
of little consequence and are hardly suffici-
ently interested to make themselves fami
liar with the standing of the National
Council, but if they could appreciate as
those do who know concerning the matter,
they would rejoice that such opportunities
of enlargement had opened for the women
of these associations, whose work has been
for years given along the lines of uplifting
and awakening thought and activity in all
that tends to the betterment of the condi-
tions of life in the home, in society, in the
state and in the world at large
	“Woman’s hour has struck” there is no
denying that truth. It is everywhere ap-
parent and the time is hastening on when
the women of this inter-mountain region
will be able to prove the great intellectual 
and moral as well as spiritual strength that
has come to them through the forces oper-
ating in their behalf to fulfill the prophecies
that have been made in years gone by with
regard to this chosen land.
	It is the intention of the writer at the
earliest possible opportunity to try to set
forth in an article devoted to the purpose
and merits of the National Council, its bear-
ing upon women, society, reform and all
the great agencies that move the world.
	The Utah women who went to attend the N.
C. W. executive session were Sisters Jane S.
Richards, E. B. Wells, Maria Y. Dougall,
Minnie J. Snow, Susa Young Gates, Joseph-
ine R. West and Margaret A. Caine.
	The first business session opened Monday
morning October 24, at 10 a. m., at which
time after preliminaries, roll call, minutes
and financial statements, questions of im
portance were considered and discussed.
	1.	“Shall the next triennial which is to
be convened in 1899, sit in two houses?”
	2.	“Shall the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States unite in recom-
mending an amendment to the constitution
of the International Council of Women, the
object of which shall be to secure a more
direct representation of the work and inter-
ests of the separate organizations belonging 
to a national council in the International
Council?”
	On these questions those who represented
the two organizations affiliated with the
Council had the opportunity to speak. Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, proxie for the president
of the National Woman’s Relief Society,
and Mrs. E. B. Wells, the delegate, also
Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall, proxie for the
president of the Y. L. N. M. I. A., and
Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, the delegate
	At 3 p. m. Monday afternoon was the
formal opening of the Council.
	Prayer by the Rev. Gerard Andrews and
an address of welcome by Mrs Sawyer,
president of the Woman’s Department of
the Trans-Mississippi International Exposi-
tion; which was one of the best and most
classical addresses we have ever heard, and
the reading of it was like perfect music.
Response by Mrs. May Wright Sewall,
president of the National Council, who
sounded the keynote of the depths of the
Council idea in such a lofty and practical
manner as to awaken every thoughtful wo-
man to activity and call for the unlimited
reserve force in carrying forward the pur-
poses of this magnificent organization. In-

[Column 3]
troduction of presidents and delegates in-
cluding National organizations and Local
councils belonging to the National Coun-
cil, with five minutes response. Mrs. Jane
S. Richards presented in a very sweet,
modest and pleasant manner a brief greet-
ing from the N. W. R. S., and told of some of
the work of the Society. Mrs. Maria Y.
Dougall in a happy and characteristic man-
ner spoke for the young ladies in a few
choice words, rhythmically arranged and
clearly delivered. Utah may well be proud
of her women, both in appearance and the
manner of presenting subjects before an
audience.
	A reception was given the same evening
by the Woman’s Department of the Trans-
Mississippi and International Exposition
which most of the Utah people attended,
all were invited. We noticed Mr. and Mrs.
Dougall and daughter, Mrs. Minnie J. Snow,
Mrs. Susa Young Gates and others. It
was held in the parlors of the Church and
was a very brilliant social affair. The dec-
orations were pink and white roses and
chrysanthemums, refreshments dainty ices
and cakes. Everything was in elegant
style and excellent taste, there was no
over-dressing yet many brilliant costumes 
were worn and jewels flashed here and there
conspicuously.
	Tuesday morning at 9.30 executive ses-
sion, discussion after business on the resolu-
tion considering the care of dependent and
defective children, and whether there should
be a standing committee for that purpose,
also a resolution opposing the plan pursued
by many institutions that breaking up
families by removing the child from the
home and putting additional burdens upon
the community is not the best method, but
if not possible on account of environment
etc. to keep mother and child together, place
children in families instead of public insti-
tutions.
	These resolutions brought out many
thoughts and several able women spoke
with much tender feeling, and it seemed to
be the opinion of the majority that the
question be considered as settled that there
be a standing committee on this subject.
	The afternoon was taken by the lunch-
eon given by the Local Jewish Council, an
account of which will be found in another
column of this issue.
	The evening session was given to frater-
nal delegates with five minutes response
from each and reports of ten minutes from
organizations affiliated with the Council,
after which there were addresses of thirty
minutes on Total Abstinence, Purity and
Woman Suffrage and Society’s Duty to the
Scarlet Woman. This subject was dealt with
by Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, whom our
readers will remember paid us a visit last
year, and who is one of the most magnetic
and fascinating women who has ever graced
a public platform, and is intensely in
earnest upon this subject. Her speech from
first to last was a lofty and sublime appeal
to all women to lift the fallen whenever
and wherever possible and not forget the
blessed Savior’s example when He said,
“Go and sin no more,” and to insist upon
one standard of morality for both sexes.
	Wednesday, October 29, 9.30 a. m., was
occupied by ten minutes reports from or-
ganizations in the Council. The first given
was by Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, delegate of
the Y. L. N. M. I. A., who presented the work
on the highest intellectual and spiritual
plane, and gave to the theme her own lofty


and exalted word picture, bringing it in full
view to the audience. At 8 p. m. the same
evening among other reports given was the
N. W. R. S., by Mrs. E. B. Wells, and dur-
ing the reading the dear old flag with its
stars and stripes was brought in and the
audience rose en masse and sang America,
which was a very pretty incident.
	On Friday morning at 10 a. m. another
Utah woman, Mrs. Susa Young Gates,
read a paper “The Relation of Capital and
Labor as Applied to Domestic Service.”
The writer believes she may safely say this
paper attracted quite as much attention as
any other and was perhaps an unexpected
surprise to the women on the platform. As
a matter of course we women were all
very proud of Mrs. Gates brilliant effort, in
fact it was very apparent the Utah women
were not behind the times.
	There were many high-bred, intellectual
women from different parts of the country
new to the Council whose personality one
recalls with delight, among these we must
mention Miss Carty of Canada whose beau-
tiful presence bespoke the cultivation of
centuries, and Mrs. Richardson of Boston
whose address upon Citizenship and Loyal-
ty must be ranked as one of the very best
of the many magnificent speeches of the
week in the Council of which we shall treat
in another article more fully.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	We are just in receipt of a postal card
from Jerusalem a souvenir of the visit of
the Emperor and Empress of Germany, on
which Madame Mountford writes among
other items, “Greetings to all friends in
Utah.”
	As Christmas is approaching it is well to
remind the public that we have for sale at
this office the book of poems “Musings and
Memories” by E. B. Wells, which is a
suitable holiday gift-book and should be in
every library of the Y. L. M. I. A., cloth
cover $1.25, dainty binding $1.50, moroco
$2.00. This book is handsomely bound and
contains a steel engraving of the author.
	A new book for the holidays will soon be
ready entitled “Aunt Em’s Stories” includ-
ing “Hephzibah,” which was enthusiastic-
ally received when published as a serial ten
years ago, also “Aunt Esther’s Sweetheart,”
“Some Old Love Letters,” “Emily Hamil-
ton’s Christmas,” “He Cometh Not,” and
several others equally as interesting and all
founded on facts.
	President Franklin D. Richards and his
wife, President Jane S. Richards, organized
a Relief Society in Omaha on Tuesday,
October 25, at the residence of one of the
local Elders. There were present also the
presiding Elder of the mission, Elder R.E.
Yeates and Elder Hatch, both of Logan,
Utah, also Bishop Barton and wife of Kays-
ville, and Mrs. Josephine R. West, one of
the General Board of the Primary Associa-
tion, and Mrs. E. B Wells who arrived just
before the meeting closed. Full particulars
will be published.


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE.

NATIONAL WOMAN’S RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The October conference of the General
Conference of the National Woman’s Re-
lief Society was held in the Assembly Hall
it in this city, October 5, 1898, commencing

[Column 2]
at 10 a. m., President Zina D. H. Young
presiding. Meeting opened with singing
“Now let us rejoice.” Prayer by President
Jane S. Richards Singing “How firm a
foundation. Roll called, nineteen Stakes
responded. Minutes of the morning meet-
ing of the April conference read and ap-
proved.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke a few
words of cheer and comfort to the sisters
and bore a strong testimony to the truth of
the Latter-day work, and she said we had
but just commenced our work in this soci-
ety and spoke of the time when the wo-
men of the Church were first organized and
the progress that bad been made, yet felt
that we had only made a start. She spoke
further upon humility and overcoming by
the power of the testimony of the truth un-
til when we shall be able to sing the song
of the redeemed.
	President Jane S. Richards urged the
sisters to be faithful in attending their
meetings and conferences, thought it both
a duty and a pleasure, referred to the genu-
ne help the society had been to the breth-
ren in their respective wards, felt the sis-
ters did step right out as though they were
Elders in Israel, dwelt most earnestly upon
the grain question, said we needed more
granaries and as we had assisted in so many
places to help build ward houses we ought
to have help to build granaries, quoted
Bishop Hunter on the grain question and
knew he was prompted by the spirit of the
Lord when he urged the sisters to take care
of the wheat, there is no danger of having
too much and the time is sure to come
when it will be needed even if we do have
bounteous harvests. Advised the sisters to
hold their meetings at the time appointed,
the angels might be there waiting. Sister
Richards also spoke upon kindness and for-
giving each other, let us try and bear our
trials and be thankful we have a place with
His people.
	Sister Zina said: “They that, feared the
Lord spoke often one to another and the
Lord hearkened and heard and said they
shall be mine when I make up my jewels.”
Counselor B. W. Smith referred to the
bounteous harvest and the great need of
laying up grain she urged the sisters to
look well after the sick, afflicted and dying
—when they pass away see that everything
is done properly, and teach purity, truthful-
ness, virtue and industry, don’t go outside
of your income, don’t go into debt. It
will not be long before we who are advanc-
ing in years will meet our loved ones and
enter into joy. “I have great joy in my
labors in the Temple, and sisters prepare
yourselves to work for your dead, may
you be inspired to do this.”
	President F. A Hammond represented
San Juan in the absence of his wife, the
president. The wheat question he thought
seemed to be the text, he thought it was
the proper subject for the time—bread is
the staff of life, the sisters in our Stake are
doing well with the wheat and when it is
not available are storing flour; this year the
earth smiles and responds beautifully to the
husbandsman, out of one crop of dry farm-
ing which seeded itself largely himself and
sons had raised 1900 bushels. The speaker
also alluded to the franchise and urged wo-
men to vote for good men and women who
will stand for the home, for virtue and
holiness, praised the sisters of that Stake for
their diligence and good works and in going
to their conferences when sometimes they

[Column 3]
had to travel fifty miles some of them to at-
tend. President Hammond spoke for the
“Woman’s Exponent,” said it ought to be
better sustained, felt every president and
every teacher in the society should take it
and read it, he enjoyed reading it and al-
ways had, knew people plead not being able
but he did not believe there was a woman
there who could not afford to take it, only
one dollar a year, this, he continued, is the
grandest and strongest organization we
have in these valleys, and let us sustain it
as we should.
	Brother John Beck thanked Sister Zina,
the president, for inviting him to speak.
in his remarks, after encouraging the sis-
ters in their good work, he said that it
seemed to him that the time had come when
the daughters of Eve were so that they were
doing as much as the sons of Adam, and he
thought that the marriage question was one
that women should settle. Made some
suggestions about the grain and the build-
ing of elevators in every Stake of Zion.
	Sister Orms spoke for Pocatello Stake
and the newness of the organization, only a
little over two months, knew they had a
good people, there were faithful sisters in
the society.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by
President Hammond.
				E. B. WELLS, Sec.


A TRIBUTE TO AUNT MELISSA.

	Dear Aunt Melissa was the eldest daughter
of Cornelius P. and Permelia Darrow Lott.
Our grandparents were born in the state of
New York and were both of the old Rev-
olutionary ancestors who fought in battle
and held positions of trust in the Govern-
ment during its seven years struggle for
American independence. They were the
only ones of either family to join the
Church. Grandpa came of a fine old Dutch
family, and grandma of the early Puritan
stock. Grandpa moved to Pennsylvania
prior to his marriage, as did also the Dar-
row family. Aunt Melissa was born in
that state in Luzern Co., on the 9th of
February, 1823.
	People who knew her say she was a
beautiful, refined, intelligent girl; those
who knew her best loved her most. At
the age of nineteen years she was married
to the Prophet Joseph Smith and lived with
his wife Emma (whom she dearly loved) in
the “Nauvoo Mansion” until after the
prophet’s martyrdom. She then returned
to her father’s home, shared all the hard-
ships of the Latter-day Saints in their vari-
ed travels from state to state, suffering-
p[-]ivations of every name and nature un-
complainingly. Being the eldest of a fam-
ly of eleven children and her mother being
of a delicate organization her duties were
necessarily great, her patience often tried
and her physical cares many, yet she was
ever gentle, kind and cheerful under the
most trying circumstances. She came to
Utah with her parents in 1848 and married
Ira Willis with a perfect understanding that
she would be the prophet's wife in the
Great Beyond.
	Aunt Melissa had born to her seven chil-
dren, four sons and three daughters. Her
husband, two sons and two daughters pre-
ceded her to the other side. She left two
sons, one daughter, a host of grandchildren,
one sister, two brothers and many loved
relatives and friends who will miss her all
the time, for she was an exceptional wo-


man; one of great strength of character,
bright perception, pure, just, generous
principles. Her advice and example were
always for good, her every act displayed
the unselfish, noble womanhood; we all re-
garded her as one of nature’s grandest type
of heroines. From earliest infancy her life
has been one of sacrifice, privation, mental
and physical suffering, yet when others
complain we have heard her say many
times, “No I do not wish my life-trials
other than they are, ’tis best for God de-
signed it so or it would not be.” The
prophet promised her that in taking the
step with him in her girlhood “she should
be the savior of her father’s household.”
We all expect and have faith that this will
be fulfilled.
	Aunt was a true, consistent Latter-day
Saint, her last years were spent in comfort-
ing the aged and lonely and ministering to
the sick and afflicted. She was up to with-
in a few months of her death an active,
earnest worker in the Relief Society at Lehi,
Utah Co., and we believe one of the presid-
ing officers. She had done a great deal of
Temple work, made Temple suits, laid out
the dead and aided in every possible way
God’s children.
	To her immediate family she was a just,
loving, loyal, capable mother, sister and
friend, a peacemaker in very deed. Filled
with sterling integrity she died firm in the
faith of a glorious resurrection. She was
buried on the 15th of July, (in her seventy-
fifth year) in the Salt Lake cemetery on
the lot where her parents, husband and
children are sleeping. 
	God grant we may follow in the path she
has left behind, keep firm in the faith of
Christ’s Gospel, thereby prove worthy to
meet her on the other shore when our time
shall come to go.
			Affectionately
				J. P. M. FARNSWORTH,
					139 Brigham Street.
	Oct. 28, 1898.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C. 

	The annual meeting of the U. W. P. C.
was held at the residence of L. B. Bunnell,
Oct. 31, 1898, President R. B Pratt in the
chair. Opening prayer was offered by Mary
A. Freeze. Roll call was answered by
sentiments from Lydia D. Alder’s poems,
followed by instrumental music by the
hostess. Unfinished business was called
for and that of incorporation was again
postponed. The president said that a
business meeting had been called in regu-
lar order and the officers for the ensuing
year nominated. The question of balloting
or voting in the new members was dis-
cussed at some length and finally Dr. Shipp
made a motion that we elect our new
officers by vote; this motion carried unani-
mously and the president then presented
the following names which were elected
without a dissenting voice:
	Ella W. Hyde, president; Isabella
Cameron Brown, 1st vice-president; Caro-
line C. R. Wells, 2nd vice-president;
Aimed Schiller, secretary; Ruth M. Fox,
assistant secretary; Lydia D. Alder, cor-
responding secretary; Edith R. Lovsey,
assistant corresponding secretary; Margaret
A. Caine, treasurer; Ellis R. Shipp, histor-
ian; Helen V. Kimball, Dr. Ellis. R. Shipp,
Dr. Romania B. Pratt program committee.
	Miss Raleigh then sang in a very rich, full


voice "The Miller’s Daughter." The
president then made a very eloquent fare-
well speech, giving an interesting word
picture and resume of the year’s work, after
which the following program was rendered:
Miss Kimball gave a most interesting ac-
count of the late Queen of Denmark and her
beautiful daughters. Mrs. Alder also gave
some pleasing reminiscences of the king’s
court and the Princess Alexandria who
created a revolution among the nobility re-
garding children. She took her babies
everywhere and when she attended grand
dinners, "entertained the company with
what the baby said." Miss Kimball opened
the discussion on the Dreyfus case and read
some newspaper clippings. The treasurer,
Mrs. Harker, then read the report for the
past year which was very satisfactory.
This was followed by a very touching song
in the very sweet voice of Mrs. Maggie Bas-
sett. Then with the brilliant lights extin-
guished and in the soft glow of the grate
fires Mrs. Ruth M. Fox related some very
thrilling Hallowe’en stories, greatly to the
amusement of her listeners. Mrs. Mamie
Stringham favored the company with classic-
al music and the refreshments that followed
were of the same order of excellence.
	A vote of thanks was [-]endered the hostess
for her kindly entertainment and to the
president for her very efficient service to
the club during the year, and the new
officers were duly installed.
ELLIS R. SHIPP, Act. Sec.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall, on Saturday, September 17, 1898,
Counselor B. W. Smith presiding in the
absence of President Horne. Singing “O,
say what is truth.” Prayer by Sister
Julia C. Howe. Singing “We thank Thee
O, God for a prophet.”
	Sister Smith said that Sister Eliza R.
Snow had said that there would be a soci-
ety formed that would be as the school of
prophets to the sisters. Observed that she
was not as punctual as she was in her
younger days, but she always enjoyed the
meetings and the testimonies of the sisters.
We should make good resolutions when we
meet together and carry them out in our
lives.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said these meet-
ings had done her a great deal of good, she
had tried hard to overcome her timidity and
had found this was a good school for wo-
men. Spoke of the many changes that had
come to us, and of the death of our beloved
President Woodruff. She had been well
acquainted with him, could rememember
when she was a child of his honest and
honorable character. Thought we should
all have the love of Christ in our hearts and
not criticise or backbite each other, and
that the example that parents should set for
their children should be exemplary. We
mothers should know where our children are.
	Sister Howe said she would like to speak
so as to be heard if possible, and would say
what the Lord dictated. She always taught
the children when she presided in the Pri-
mary not to steal or be disobedient, she felt
anxious for the children of Zion. The
Prophet Joseph had said the Relief Society
should assist in correcting the morals, we
should exercise faith and grow stronger.
Alluded to President Woodruff, what an
exemplary man he was in all things, men-

[Column 2]
tioned a sermon of John W. Taylor’s in
which he said that spiritual gifts did and
must exist in the Church, and we should
live to exercise these gifts. Let us not be
guilty of having any gifts from Satan, let
no contention exist among us but be filled
with charity and love.
	Sisters Rawlings and Brown and others
bore testimony to the goodness of God and
said many excellent things, rejoiced in
spiritual gifts and the work in the Temple,
felt thankful for such blessed opportunities.
	Sister Margaret P. Young said she
thought the sisters who had expressed
themselves were very useful, for their
words were to the effect that they were in-
terested in each other and striving to do
each other good. Thought we should pray
for and appreciate those sisters who presided
over us as they were growing aged in body,
but were still filled with ambition for the
work of God. Felt that the golden mo-
ments that God grants to us should be
spent in getting precious knowledge.
	Sister Jane M. E. Young was called up-
on by Counselor B. W. Smith and gave
some of her experiences in visiting the
State Penitentiary, she thought we should
correct all evil and profanity we hear among
children, more especially boys are inclined
to this evil. Spoke of President Woodruff
and the counsel he had given her, what a
comfort his words had been. Alluded to
his economy of time. “Dear sisters, I do
pray that we will be able to train and
rear our children in a pleasing manner unto
God; this is my humble prayer.”
	Sister Hyde said she wished to bear her
testimony of the goodness of God, said He
was good and that His eye was over us.
	Other sisters also bore testimony and ex-
pressed many good wishes. Counselor
Smith said she hoped we would all meet
again in two weeks and bring our neigh-
bors with us.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “The time is far spent.” Benediction
by Sister Annie T. Hyde.
JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Sec. pro tem.

	Minutes of Ladies Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th ward Assembly hall,
Saturday, October 1, 1898, Counselor E. J.
Stevenson presiding. Opened by singing
“Our God we raise to Thee.” Prayer by
Counselor Webb. Singing “O my Father.”
Minutes of meetings held August 28 and
September 17 were read and approved.
	Sister Stevenson felt to thank God for
the rain, also for the opportunity of meet-
ing with the sisters. Realized that the
spirit of God was present and if we all en-
couraged that spirit we could have a grand
time, for the Lord has said “Where two or
three shall meet together in my name, I
will be in their midst and that to bless
them.” Spoke briefly on the death of our
beloved President Woodruff, said how meek
and humble he always was and exhorted
the sisters to follow his example. Did not
know the reason President Horne was ab-
sent, perhaps it was due to the inclemency
of the weather, hoped she was not sick.
Gave the meeting into the hands of the
sisters.
	Sister Jane James praised the Lord that
she had seen the Prophet Joseph Smith and
that he had blest her. Spoke also of the
kindness shown to her by Sister Emma
Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Desired to be humble as a little child, that
she might be worthy to enter one of the
mansions that the Lord had prepared.


Sister Webb said we were living in
momentous times, exhorted the sisters to
live so that we might avoid the sins and
evils that surround us and prayed that the
young people might be preserved from the
snares that beset them. Testified that the
Relief Society had been a great blessing to
her.
	Sister Parkes of Idaho, though a com-
parative stranger in our midst could testify
to the truth of the work. She was well
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Remembered the time the Relief Society
was organized, heard the prophet say if
the sisters would be faithful that the angels
would visit them. Told them that the
Lord was no respector of persons, but if
they would always live near to Him He
would grant their desires. She had proven
his words true and prayed that she might
always be among the faithful workers of the
Relief Society.
	Sister Longmore rejoiced in the work and
hoped to prove faithful to the end.
	Sister Rossiter said the Lord had be-
stowed upon her many blessings and she
desired to spend her life in His service.
Spoke of the time when she received the
Gospel, desired to do all she could for her
dead relatives.
	Sister Julia Golightly was trying to
overcome her weaknesses that she might
gain the approval of her Heavenly Father.
	Sister Mary P. Silver spoke of the joy
she felt in the everlasting Gospel, she had
left all for it and the Lord had blest her
abundantly.
	Sister Eliza Rossiter was thankful for
the Gospel, knew it was true and hoped to
prove faithful to the end.
	Sister Alder said she had received many
blessings from her Heavenly Father, had
also many trials, yet she tried not to com-
plain. She often wondered what we should
do without the Gospel, we should surely
faint by the wayside. “Sisters let us serve
the Lord through evil and through good
report and ever hold on to the iron rod.”
Encouraged the sisters to trust in the Lord
and not think too much of their sorrows,
to remember the Lord is on our side all the
time.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “The God we adore.” Benediction by
Hannah M. Wright.
		HANNAH M. WRIGHT, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

MARIA CROMPTON.
	Sister Maria Crompton, wife of Robert Cromp
ton died at her home in American Fork on
Thursday, October 13, 1898, after a long and pain-
ful illness of nearly two years, the cause being
dropsy superinduced by heart trouble. She was
born April 8, 1834, at Withyham, Sussex, Eng-
land, joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in New York City and came to Utah in
1861. She was married to Brother Crompton in
1862 and has made her home in American Fork
ever since. She was the mother of seven chil-
dren six of whom survive her, three sons and
three daughters, also a number of grandchildren.
	Sister Crompton was a teacher in the Relief
Society for a number of years, always w[-]lling to
do her part in the reat work that devolves
upon the sisters in this calling, was faithful in at-
ending her meetings as long as she was able and
rejoiced in the testimony of Jesus. She was pa-
tient and long suffering during her illness and had
unbounded faith in the ordi[-]ance of the Church
for the healing of the sick, always obtaining re-
lief whenever she was administered to by the
Elders. She was a devoted wife and mother, al-
ways working diligently to set a good example
for her children and to educate them in the prin-


ciples of life and salvation as well as to fit them to
battle with the trials of life. Great credit is due
to her children who worked so untiringly in her
behalf during her illness, never wearying in their
labor of love. May the Lord support them and
their father upon whom the loss falls so heavily,
and may He help them to realize that all is well
and though her presence will be sadly missed in
the home circle, yet she may be a link in the
chain that binds them to the Eternal Father.
	EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
	JANE C. HINDLEY,
	SYLVIA MISENER,
				Committee.


[Column 1]	
THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF
WOMEN.

PRESIDENT SEWALL’S ADDRESS.
	The stirring events of the last six months
have been so emphasized on public opinion
that they seem to have occupied the entire
year. The din of war is wont so to deafen
the public ear that the quiet activities of a
war period are to it inaudible. There can
have been no time when war did not involve
the women of countries engaged in it; for
even before women had any participation in
public affairs the wars that drew men from
their homes increased the importance of wo-
men in private affairs as their industrial
activity was augmented perforce by the very
events which made the greatest drafts upon
their hearts. At no period of stress in our
country’s history have the public services
of American women in various fields been
so conspicuous as during the last six
months. The services of Miss Helen
Gould in pecuniary gifts, or Clara Barton
with the sign of the Red Cross, of the hun-
dreds of nurses who have shunned no
danger of climate and no discomfort of
camp, of the women war correspondents
who, let it be hoped, have contributed no
yellow pages to the journals of the day,
only conspicuously illustrate the various
ways in which hundreds of thousands of
women have, on a smaller scale, contributed
to their country’s strength.
	While it was still hoped that war might
be averted the National Council responding
to the well known desire of President Mc-
Kinley, added to the numerous petitions
that went out from brave and loyal
men and women from all over the country,
its petition representing the desire of over
1,000,000 women, to avoid war if possible.
That no one desired to avert the catastrophe
more than President McKinley his whole
course of conduct showed; that he was
grateful to those who attempted to hold the
public mind calm and to afford time for dip-
lomatic intervention, his response to such
petitions amply proves. It may well be
believed that from the day war was declared
those who have tried in whatever circle
they were, to avert it were most fervently
grateful for the magnanimity constantly
shown by our chief executive, the human-
ity manifested by our generals and the hero-
ism demonstrated on land and sea by our
countrymen.
THREE NEW COMMITTEES.
	Three most important standing commit-
tees have been added during the last year to
our groups of committee workers. The
committee on social peace and international
arbitration, with the Countess Cora Slo-
comb di Brazzi at its head. The sudden
call to arms but served to emphasize the
need of the committee and to show that
such a committee should long ago have
been organized and been active in the diffu-

[Column 2]
sion of its doctrines. The committee on
social purity, with Rev. Anna Garlin
Spencer at its head. The formation of
this committee is a declaration that the
National Council of Women of the United
States is committed to that doctrine of the
common moral standard for men and wo-
men so forcibly expressed in the well known
phrase, “A white life for two.” The
committee on domestic relations under the
law, whose chairman is Miss Octavia Wil-
liams Bates of Detroit. It has for its
specific work such a codification of the laws
bearing upon domestic life as will show the
contradiction, existing among our states and
the manner in which these contradictions
work injustice to individuals and evil to
the community.
	During the year but one national organ-
zation of women has entered the council
ranks—the Rathbone Sisters—the second of
the great orders that have come in, the
Ladies of the Maccabees being the other
one.
	The growth through the multiplication
of local councils is not less important. The
largest formed during the year is that at
New Orleans, which already includes in its
membership 114 local organizations. Suc-
cessful initiative has been taken in organiz-
ing a local council in New York City.
	Among the organizations that for the first
time send fraternal delegates to our sessions
are the Congress of Mothers and the George
Washington Memorial Association.
	During the last year the fraternal rela-
tions with Canada, which have from the
beginning of council work been fostered in
the two countries, have been emphasized.
WOMEN AND WAR.
	In these days we are continually hear-
ing of the new role which the United States
is to play among the nations of the earth
We are told that it will no longer do for
the United States to hold itself in isolation
from the rest of the world: that whether
it wishes it or not the nation is destined to
assume a place which will compel all other-
nations to reckon with it in the prosecu-
tion of any projects they may devise. Those
of us who truly believe that a perfect social
peace would make either a civil or a foreign
war impossible must still rejoice in every
good that seems to have resulted from the
recent war. If by it our country shall
be lifted out of a selfish materialism which
has engrossed it into a sense of its perman-
ent relationship with all the other nations
of the earth this must be counted a great
good. But we believe it is its happy des-
tiny to prove its relationship to the nations
of the world and its consciousness of its
kinship, not by becoming a terror because
of its invincible navy, invulnerable ships
and unmatched soldiery, but rather be-
cause of its sense of human equality, which
is the inevitable outcome of a true sense of
human kinship.
	Our country has been isolated by its
size and by the satisfaction which it derived
from contemplating its own dimensions.
Its sense of international relationship will
be quickened by a sense of the insignificance
of size when disconnected from contents
and quality. Of this new sense of kinship
among the nations, which indisputably
has been quickened into consciousness by
the recent war, the council was a forerun-
ner. Through the International Council of
Women this sense of relationship among
the nations has already assumed organic


form, and, as is well known, organic form
is essential to conscious and responsible
activity.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMEN MEET AT LUNCHEON.

BRILLIANT COMPANY.
	The luncheon and reception tendered by
the local Council of Jewish Women to the
visiting delegates of the National Coun-
cil of Women at the Metropolitan club on
Oct. 25, was a most brilliant entertainment.
It is seldom that one cit[-] has the pleasure
of entertaining so many distinguished wo-
men as are sojourning in the Gate City.
The spacious hall which was well adapted
for the purpose of entertaining on a grand
scale, was magnificent with myriads of
electric lights and flowers, and exquisite
confections in costuming, scintillating with
gems, vied with natural fiowers in the
adorning of these women, who although
they dive deep into reforms advanced to
elevate humanity and raise the standard of
citizenship, do not despise the witchery of
becoming apparel the glitter of jewels and
perfume of flowers.
	For a short time the receiving matrons,
Mrs Belle A. Polack, Mrs. Simon Adamsky,
and Mrs. Moritz Meyer, stood in the hall.
Only there was nothing about it to suggest
a hall, as it had been em[-]owered with ex-
otics so that it might easily have been im-
agined a bower in some tropical isle.
Passing thence to the long dining room the
guests perceived that the floral decorations
had been managed with artistic restraint.
The tables were arranged in a geometrical
design and beautifully decorated with a rich
display of white and yellow chrysanthe-
mums. At the head of the banquet board
the five guests of honor sat. Mrs. Polack,
president of the local Council of Jewish
Women, in the center. On her right was
seated Mrs. Hannah G. Solomon of Chica-
go, on her left Mrs. May Wright Sewall of
Indianapolis. Miss Susan B. Anthony sat
next to Mrs. Solomon and Mrs. Draper
Smith was seated next to Mrs. Sewall.
	The out of-town guests who occupied
spaces about the board were: Susan B. An-
thony, Mrs. Hannah Solomon of Chicago,
Mrs. Simon of Kansas City, Mo., Mrs.
Rosenwasser of Cleveland, Mrs. Iesner of
Champaign, Ill., Mrs. Foster, Mrs. Kate
Barrett of Washington, D. C., Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells, Mrs. M. Y. Dougall of Salt
Lake City, Mrs. Henry Hirsch of Des
Moines. Mrs Charles Mayer, Miss Mayer
of Lincoln, Mrs. Oberfelder of Sidney, Mrs.
Hirshland of Des Moines, Mrs. Lipals, Mrs.
Simon, Mrs. Ryder of Kansas City, Mrs.
Sewall of Indianapolis, Mrs Barbe of Chi-
cago, Mrs. Thershein, Mrs. Schulman, Mrs.
Fuhrman of Seattle, Mrs. Hollister of De-
troit, Mrs. Richards of Champaign, Mrs.
Moog, Mrs. Anna Shaw of Philadelphia, Mrs.
Frances Beauchamp of Lexington, Ky., Mrs.
Louise B. Robbins of Adrian, Mich., Mrs. L.
S. Lieberman, Mrs. Simon of Kansas City,
Miss Octave Williams Bates of Detroit, Mrs.
Newberry Adams of Dubuque.
GREETINGS TO THE GUESTS.
	In opening the post-prandial exercises
Mrs. Clara Rosewater, toastmistress, greet-
ed the guests, saying: "At no time in the
history of Omaha have so many brilliant
and talented women been with us. I there-
fore think it fitting that the session of the
Council of Jewish Women close with an ex-
pression of goodwill and fraternal feeling."

[Column 2]
She called the first toast of the afternoon,
"Welcome."
	Mrs. Belle Polack responded to this toast
in a happy manner, extending the most
cordial welcome to all.
	Mrs. Rosewater then said: "During the
last few years woman has steadily moved
on. She has advanced from the seclusion
of the past. The club is largely responsi-
ble for this."
	"What Clubbing has Done for Women"
was responded to by Mrs. H. F. Smith,
president of the Woman's Club of Omaha.
She spoke slowly and distinctly. "Club-
bing punishes," she said, “punishes for
past offences. We see our shortcomings in
the light of present study and regret times
wasted in youth. Clubbing injures physic-
ally unless taken in homeopathic doses.
To be serious it brings into our midst for
our enjoyment here today the leaders in the
world’s progress and thought.”
	“The Wonder of the Nineteenth Century:
the Fairest Work o[-] the Great Author”
was responded to by Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, and “Liberalism in Religion” by
Rev. Mary Gerard Andrews. "If we grow
intellectually we must grow into the
thought of the spirit,” said Mrs. Andrews,
“in the spirit of love. In spite of our dif-
ferences there is a large spirit of love and
good fellowship and this is the spirit of
liberal religion in our club.”
	Miss Susan B. Anthony was presented to
respond to the toast “Woman is man’s
Equal in Intellect, in Character His Su-
perior. She Needs no Eulogy. She
Speaks for Herself.” Miss Anthony was
heartily greeted as she arose to speak and
said: “The other half of genus homo is
making its appearance in the world. For
the last quarter of a century I have been
trying to impress upon the other half that
she has the inherent right to be equal to
the original half at the ballot box. I hope
to see the fruition of my labors.”
	Mrs. Leo Franklin responded to “Cas-
tles in the Air,” and Mrs. Hannah Solo-
mon “Why Omaha Needs a Jewish
Council.”


[Column 1]
[Union Pacific logo, shield with the following text written on it]
UNION
PACIFIC
THE
OVERLAND
ROUTE
WORLD'S PICTORIAL LINE

[to the left of the above logo]
SWIFT
AS

[to the right of the above logo]
THE
EAGL

	Denver is one day nearer Chicago to-day than
it was yesterday. This is the actual practical
effect of the fast mail trains inaugurated by the
North-Western and Union Pacific.—Chicago
Times Herald, Feb. 8, 1898.
"The Chicago Special"
Leaves Denver, 4:30 p m today.
Arrives Omaha, 7:00 a m tomorrow.
Arrives Chicago, 8:45 p m tomorrow.
	To the Chicago, Union Pacific and North-
western belongs the credit of inaugurating the
new fast train service between Denver and
Chicago.
	This new train is a triumph of modern rail-
roading. It consists of six magnificent cars:
Buffet, smoking and library car, with barber
shop, etc. Two splendid palace sleeping cars.
Reclining chair car. Dining car, meals a la
carte. Baggage car.
	This is the only train between Denver and
Chicago having the luxurious
........Buffet, Smoking and Library Cars.
	Westbound, "The Colorado Special" leaves
Chicago 10:00 a. m. arrives Omaha 11:55 p m, to-
day, and Denver 1:30 p m, tomorrow.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
WILFORD-WOODRUFF, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD

(In Effect July 17, 1898.

	Trains arrive and depart at Salt Lake City
daily as follows:
ARRIVE.
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver, Park City
	and Ogden.........................3 10 p m
From Helena, Butte, Portland, San
	Francisco. Ogden and intermed-
	iate points.........................8 55 a m
From San Francisco, Cache Valley
	Ogden and intermediate points. 7 15 p m
From Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis,
	Kansas City, Denver and Ogden [-] 10 a m
*From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete, Pro-
	vo, Eureka, Mammoth, Silver
	City and intermediate points....6 20 p m
✝Mixed train from Terminus,
	Tooele and Garfield Beach......4 00 p m

DEPART.
For Chicago, Omaha, Denver, Kan-
	sas City. St. Louis, Ogden and
	Park City..........................7 00 a m
For San Francisco, Ogd[-]n, Cache
	Valley and intermediate points.8 05 a m
For Ogden, Denver, Kansas City,
	Omaha, St. Louis, Chicago and
	intermediate points..............6 25 p m
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland
	and San Francisco................8 45 p m
*For Mercur, Eureka, Silver City,
	Provo, Nephi. Sanpete, Milford,
	Frisco and intermediate points 7 30 a m
✝Mixed train for Garfield Beach,
	Tooele and Terminus.............7 45 a m
	*Trains south of Juab run daily except
[-]unday.
	✝Daily except Sunday.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, UNDER MASONIC HALL,
No. 200 West Second South street.
	Telephone No. 250.
	Railroad and Steamship Tickets on sale
to all parts o the world.
	Pullman Palace [-]ar ticket office.
D. E. BURLEY.
Gen. Pass. and Ticket Agent
S. W. ECCLES,
General Traffic Manager.
W. H. BANCROFT,
Vice-President and Gen. Manager

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1989.			
.


CONTENTS:
	Daughters of the Revolution—L. W. S. Marthas
and Marys Again—A. Snell. Thanksgiving Lo[-]g
Ago—E. B. W. Re[-]ief Soci[-]ty Reports. In
Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL:—Anniversary Celebration. An
Interesting Party. United in Marriage. Musings
and Memories. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Autumn Leaves—Bella E. Howell.
Eighty years—Lydia D Alder.


AUTUMN LEAVES.

Crimson, scarlet and yellow,
	Tumbling down from the trees,
Shimmering there in the sunshine,
	Tossed at will by the breeze.

Falling on Mother Earth’s bosom,
	Bedecking her gay autumn dress,
Spangling it over with jewels,
	As lightly her mantle they press.

Rolling in heaps all together,
	Then suddenly flying apart.
Surprised by the wandering zephyr,
	With confusion and hurry they start.

Then again over hill, dale and meadow,
	These butterflies born of the fall,
Go dancing, darting and fluttering,
	Obeying the wind fairy’s call;

Waving farewell to the summer,
	As the wind rudely bears them away,
Romping, roving and restless,
	Disdaining in one place to stay.

Beautiful leaves of the autumn,
	Brilliant with summer’s last ray;
Tremulous leaves of the fall time,
	Were you born but to decay?

Smiling you come in the spring;
	All summer you laugh in the sun;
Now sadly you drop from the branches,
Sighing, “Summer, sweet summer is done”
				BELLA E. HOWELL


DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.

ORGANIZATION EFFECTED IN THIS CITY.
	At a meeting of the Wasatch Chapter of
the Daughters of the Revolution held
Wednesday, Nov 16, in room 208 Templeton
building, the Wasatch Society of the State
of Utah, Daughters of the Revolution, was
organized and the following officers elected:
	Regent, Emmeline B. Wells; first vice
regent, Susa Y. Gates; second vice regent,
Clarissa S. Williams; recording secretary,
Julia Farnsworth; corresponding secretary,
Lucy W. Smith; registrar, Phebe Y. Beatie;
treasurer, Mary A. H. Cannon; historian,
Alice S. M. Horne, and chaplain, Maria Y.
Dougall.
	The newly elected regent expressed her-
self as being well pleased that the State or-
ganization had been effected and voiced the
sentiment of every R. D. present in wish-
ing prosperity to the society and a steady
growth of its membership.
				L. W. S., Sec. pro tem.


MARTHAS AND MARYS AGAIN.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	After reading Dilbhur’s “Marthas and
Marys” I wish to say that Brother Levi
Hancock told me that the Prophet Joseph
Smith explained that passage of scripture in
the School of the Prophets. The prophet
said that the world misunderstood the pas-
sage “Martha, Martha thou art careful and
troubled over many things, but one thing
is needful and Mary hath chosen that good
part which shall not be taken away from
her.”
	He explained it by saying that Martha
was a woman who devoted much time to
public affairs and was troubled about many
things, and at the time spoken of in the
Bible, Martha wished the feast to be a suc-
cess when she appealed to the Savior for
her sister’s help, while Mary was a domestic
woman and attended to her home duties
but had no public recognition of her labors.
But still Mary had chosen the better part
and her reward would not be taken away
from her, for wifehood and motherhood was
woman’s most exalted station and her bright
crown would be gained through the trials
and sacrifices she made in her home life, for
that was woman’s kingdom. He also said
the time would come when woman would
delight in public work and neglect the high-
er duties of home.
	Hoping we may all live to gain the
bright crown I remain,
					Your sister,
						A. SNELL.
	Another version of the passage of scrip-
ture alluded to was given to me by our dear,
sainted “Mother Whitney,” who also had
been taught by Joseph the Prophet, and
that was that Martha was over-anxious in
domestic affairs and Mary was so spiritual-
minded that she cared not for the good
things of life but preferred to sit at the
Master’s feet and listen to His teaching. No
doubt Mary also imparted the instruction
she thus received to others wherever and
whenever opportunity was given.—Editor.


[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING LONG AGO.

“WAY UP IN MAINE.”
	It was a dull, gray, November day away
up among the pine woods in a little coun-
try town in Maine, “a long time ago,” and
the prospect was dreary enough outside, for
the old brown house stood away alone on
the farm, and there was not even a stage
coach passed that way, only the neighbors
now and then in a chaise or heavy vehicle,
for those were not the days of street cars or
locomotives, and only a few ladies kept
their own carriage, and things were slow
compared to these modern times, but what-
ever came or went everbody kept Thanks-
giving, and there were great preparations
beforehand in all the old-fashioned houses,
for it was a general time of festivities.
	Large families were the rule, too, ever
and ever so long ago, and sometimes the
house was as full as it would hold of girls

[Column 2]
and boys, until one would wonder where
they were all tucked, away when night
came. However, there were plenty of home-
made feather beds, for farmers kept geese,
and every housewife was supposed to re-
plenish her stock of bedding from her own
farmyard. Very little money was paid out
for housekeeping matters, money was ex-
pended mostly for books and school tuition,
and perhaps extra lessons on the melodian
or some simple musical instrument for the
parlor, for there was a sort of style kept up
in these far away country houses, and
though often their manners were crude and
their minds unsophisticated, yet in good,
common, practical sense these primitive
Puritans of a few generations back were
not found wanting.
	It was just a day or two before Thanks-
giving and the Denton family were on the
qui vive with excitement in expectation of
guests who were coming from a distance,
and who must be entertained for several
days at least, and the older daughters were
busy, not only with work, but building
“castles in the air” in such splendor that
their eyes shone with visions seen from the
towers of these airy fabrics, and floating
away into space, even sailing over imagin-
ary seas, whose waters bore them tranquilly
onward to the “island of happy children,”
where their dreams were all to be realized
and their fancies become living realities;
and while they were helping with the act-
ual work of cooking and making ready,
they chatted as gaily as though their antici-
pations had come to pass and the fulness of
hope had found its fruition.
	While the girls were busy helping in the
kitchen and pantry, baking in the great
Dutch oven numberless pies and puddings,
pork and beans—the turkeys and geese were
roasted before the fire in those days—the
boys were not idle, for there were great logs
to be chopped and large quantities of pine
knots to be brought in, and nuts to be put
into the “settle” ready for the long eve-
nings when the day’s work and feasting
was over and all would gather for the eve-
ning pastime around the great, wide fire-
place, to crack nuts and jokes simultaneously.
	Little Hattie, the youngest of the girls
who had been paring apples and throwing
the paring over her head to see what letter
it would make, exclaimed, “There Hannah,
do you see that? Its a perfect R, and you
and Elsie have only had S. S. I know
you’ll both marry Smiths, (if you ever do
marry) one will be John Smith, related to
Pocahontas, and the other some one ‘un-
known to fame,’ while poor, little me, I
shall marry a Russell.” “Who will be relat-
ed to your great grandmother Russell and
perhaps almost as old, so don’t boast little
Miss,” said Drucilla.
	“Well, any way, I’ll never be an old
maid like Judith and Sarah Ann, why an
old man is better than none at all, and I’m
not going to wait and make piles of quilts
and stitch and stitch and knit and darn
and mend, and show off what I can do for
the delectation of any man young or old,
and neither will I ‘keep company’ in the
same old parlor year in and year out like


Judith sitting as she and Ben Warner do, 
one in one corner and one in the other, and
can’t pluck up courage to speak above a
whisper; and as for Sarah Ann, she is ‘too
proper’ for a man to dare ‘pop the question,’
but all the same our minister is in love with
her, and he’ll be getting old Deacon Whit-
ing to speak for him.”
	“Hattie you’re too saucy for anything,
stop your nonsense,” Sarah Ann blushing-
ly protested.
	“O, I know what you all think, but I am
tired of waiting for you girls to get married.
Everything is ready for you, and there’s a
dowry, too, to go along with the house
goods, and there’s chests of linen and what’s
to hinder a wedding this Thanksgiving.
I’ve been thinking of the south chamber,
I’m just longing to decorate it my way.”
	“Now Hattie that is going too far, ‘little
girls should be seen and not heard,’ ” said
the modest Drucilla.
	“That’s all right, but I’ll not be put off
that way. I know more than you think,
I haven’t been to high school just to learn
grammar and Euclid, I looked into a few
other things.”
	“And picked up some slang,” interposed
Judith, “which we can’t tolerate. I intend
to speak to mother about your uncommon
knowledge of things.”
	“And Miss Judith I intend to do some-
thing for you and the other grown girls in
this family and get you married off.”
	“How dreadful!” all four echoed at
once. But Jonathan the eldest son, a full-
fledged lawyer, coming in suddenly heard
with dismay the exclamation, and with a
look of inquiry turned to his sister Hattie,
the prime favorite of all the family, for an
explanation.
	“Well its all because I want to get them
married, its high time they were—every-
body says so.”
	“Everybody says so," all the girls re-
peated. “Whose gossip are you repeating
child?”
	“Widow Mills told Bettie and she told
me, and said ‘Hattie you marry while
you’re young and fresh and pretty, and
don’t teach school until you’re as cross as
two sticks, and you’re gray and have crow’s
feet and—”
	But Hattie was cut short in her explana-
tion, for in walked her father and all was
quiet directly, you might have heard a pin
drop.
	“Girls you were making so much noise I
thought you must be having a real good
time, but you look as demure as so many
kittens. "
	“Well pa we were, at least I was having
some fun at the expense of my staid, proper
sisters, they’re as dignified as Quakers, and
I’ve been telling them a few things and
shocking their sensitive pride terribly.”
	“Suppose you tell me Hattie what its
all about.”
	“Its about getting married, and I don’t
mind saying there are too many of us for
you to keep, and as for Jonathan and Sam-
uel they are too old for any nice girls now,
and the house is too small any way for so
many of us, and we haven’t a married one
in all the family,” and Hattie stopped to
catch her breath.
	Judge Denton as solemnly as though he
were passing sentence in a court room in-
quired, addressing himself to the goodly
company of young women, “What do you
propose?”
	Hattie not in the least abashed, though
the others winced perceptibly, replied
laughingly “to have some weddings. Thanks
giving ought to be for something useful. I
have an idea the most useful thing in this
house would be weddings, and then we
wouldn’t have to add any more wings to
the old mansion. Its time we had a wed-
ding any way, and what could be more de-
lightful, we’ve all got white dresses and
black dresses and all sorts of finery, and
Judith and Elsie have been teaching and
boarding round here-and there until every
country village about in Maine and Ver-
mont wants a change.”
	“Is that all, have you finished?” said the
Judge.
	“No pa, that isn’t all, but if I can have a
wedding, I don’t care if its my own and let
the old maids go on teaching if they like it.
Elsie says they do good in the out of the
way places helping to civilize people. But
they’re not doing much at self help, wearing
their lives out teaching other people’s chil-
dren when they might be improving the
race by having some of their own?”
	“Isn’t that a doubtful question whether it
would be an improvement?” the Judge sug-
gested, not really knowing what to say to
his saucy little daughter.
	“Of course its according to whom they
marry.”
	“Evidently you’ve been studying physi-
ology,” said Elsie.
	“And several other ’ologies, and the
philosophy of marriage, and looking at the
matter from a financial standpoint, pa can
marry without a fee, so we needn’t consider
that side of the question.”
	“Joking aside, this is altogether carrying
things too far. its not becoming,” protested
Judith, “and we’re wasting our precious
time with all this nonsense, and the baking
will be spoiled.”
	“And your reputation as good house-
wives, eh Judith!” provokingly put in
Hattie. “Well pa we’ll have a wedding
this Thanksgiving if I have to suggest it
myself to one of the many bachelors who
frequent this house; and if one of you girls
don’t marry why I’ll run away to Vermont
and get married, as I’m not of age yet, so
if you want to preserve the family honor
immaculate, get married.”
	The Judge was puzzled. He knew it
was time the girls were married, he was
getting old, and the two older ones had
been teaching twenty years, and he believed
in marriage, had settled in life when young
himself and he was often sort of chaffed
about his seven unmarried daughters, and
always replied that they were all in love
with their father, which was true in a way,
for they had not seen his like any where.
But really it was a serious matter, and no
one had ventured to broach the subject be-
fore, but Hattie had been the pet of all the
family and took liberties that no other mem-
ber of the household would have done upon
any account,and as she had just come home
from Augusta and had been mingling with
crowds of girls who were out from the con-
trol of parental authority, and talked freely
to each other as school girls do, she made
bold to lay hold of both horns of the dilem-
ma at once, much to the discomfiture of her
sisters who had been so disciplined in their
day with a sedate father and a mother who
was so engrossed with domestic duties, that
she hadn’t time to marry the girls; this was
one of her frequent excuses to those who
alluded to the matter in her presence, as
neighbors will in New England pry into
family affairs, even if you are miles away.
	The Judge withdrew not knowing what
to say and Hattie flew after him, rattling
away until they reached the door of her
mother’s room, when all blushes and half
inclined to cry, she sat down at her mother’s
feet and without waiting opened the ball.
	“Ma don’t you think we ought to have a
wedding this Thanksgiving? Judith and
Ben Warner have been keeping company
about seventeen years, why can’t they get
married? I want to invite Almira Newton
home with me next vacation and have the
south chamber fixed up fine, everything
renovated, and Bettie says everybody can
see our minister is in love with Sarah Ann.”
	“Why Hattie, think of his children,
twins too, and his wife not a year dead, do
you know what you’re saying my dear?
We are happy as we are, don’t turn the
house upside down with new ideas, you’re
only the baby remember.”
	“A very much over-grown baby now ma,
I have seen a few things since I went to
Augusta, even Aunt Lottie thinks its too
hard on pa to have such a house full.”
	“Your Aunt Lottie shouldn’t be filling
your head with rubbish, she has too much
time and too much money, and thinks we
are slow in Berrytown I know, but her boys
are spending her money all right since the
Colonel’s death,” the Judge replied.
	Lottie was Judge Denton’s sister and had
married a rich man and lived high, kept up
an establishment that fairly frightened her
relatives away, and in her husband’s life-
time paid little attention to her brother and
his family (he had been in the habit of call-
ing on her when his business took him to
Augusta twice a year or oftener) but after
her husband’s death having no daughters,
had entreated him to let her have one out
of the seven, and when the Judge and his
wife talked the matter over they decided to
let Hattie go to Augusta to school and stay
with her aunt meantime, and she had made
good use of her eyes and ears, for her aunt’s
house was the resort of fashionable peo-
ple, many of them women who had been
abroad, and had imbibed ideas not alto-
gether in keeping with Puritanism, and
Hattie had come home determined on mak-
ing a domestic revolution. She had hinted
it to Ruth, her sister next older, who fully
agreed with her and had noticed of late her
mother’s failing health, and dreaded the
time when unexpectedly there might be a
funeral in the family, and she knew if
mother went father would not be long. She
had been her mother’s “stay and staff” and
always took care of her in the sweetest way,
made her the daintiest caps and washed her
pretty laces. Mrs. Denton was always and
ever the lady, and the girls were all proud
of their mother, who had been a sort of belle
in her day and had many sweethearts, and in
her own mind she often wondered why her
girls had not been sought after, but gener-
ally came to the conclusion that it was be-
cause they were isolated and had come away
up in that out of the way place, just as the
older girls were beginning to go into com-
pany. Judge Denton left his city practice
in Portland when summoned to the death
bed of his father and promised him to keep
up the old home, and in fact he had met
with heavy losses through trusting his
friends and was grown distrustful; and
thought to settle down on the old farm and
hold on to the land which had been his
father’s pride and highest ambition, would
be more satisfactory after all than battling
for a place among the many of his personal
friends who were striving for office. Mrs.
Denton had taken it hard at first, for she


[Column 1]
had been much in so called society, but
with a family of seven already, she felt that
it was her duty to stay at home, so made no
demur at the change and her husband
never knew it cost her any effort to ac-
quiesce in his wishes.
	Though the Judge moved into the coun-
try he did not escape elections and served
many terms on the bench, and was known
far and wide for his just and equable deci-
sions, especially in criminal cases. He was
beginning to feel very old now with chil-
dren over forty, and his eldest son had seen
half a century and more, but Jonathan was
a fairly good lawyer, and Samuel had filled
several public offices in his own town, and
Elijah was a rising young doctor getting a
good practice around home though the
plain country folks doctored with herbs
mostly and were rather afraid of Apothe-
cary doctors. The girls had all been edu-
cated in the usual branches for young wo-
men sixty or seventy years ago, and two of
them had taken teaching as a profession,
and while Hattie argued with her mother,
the Judge “pondered these things in his
heart.”
	Before night a heavy snow was falling
and in the early morning (for these New
Englanders always had breakfast by candle-
light) the fences were not to be seen. Ruth
and Hattie lifted the blind and looked dis-
mayed at the prospect, and the snow still
falling.
	“Well Ruth we’ll have the wedding any-
way, Ben Warner’ll be here and I’ll see to
the rest.”
 “And so will the Rev. Josiah Cum-
mings,” Ruth added, but in her heart
she kept a dainty, little secret no one knew
but herself and her lover, and the katydids
or whippoorwills who sang to the lovers
when they met, O, so seldom in the pine
woods, and she knew Edwin couldn’t come
on a day like this, and she sighed as she
said, “What a day for a wedding!”
	“Why Ruth this isn’t Thanksgiving,
and it isn’t your wedding day, there’s time
for us yet. I mean to be married in
Augusta, Aunt Lottie will look out for
that.” 
	At the breakfast table the conversation
was all centred in the snow-storm.
	“It’ll be a dull Thanksgiving,” the
Judge remarked, “no visitors from a dis-
tance roads all blocked, we must get out
the oxen boys, call Jake, David, and tell
him to yoke up Dick and Jerry and put on
a yoke of young steers, may be you girls
would like to go on the big sled and help to
break the road.”
	“How jolly!” all at once came from the
girls and boys, and the Judge went up to
mother’s room to tell Ruth who had taken
up the morning cup of tea. Ruth was very
grave and her father urged her to go, telling
her he would take her place by her mother.
	“Wrap yourselves up well,” he said, “for
its a cold day,” and Ruth heavy-hearted
left the room after kissing her ma, who as
soon as she had gone remarked, “Some-
thing ails Ruth.”
	“Nonsense,” the Judge replied, “she’s
the most sensible child we have, no non-
sense about her, takes care of the fowls and
looks after the house money, and is as sav-
ing and practical as her great grandmother
was, whom she resembles.”
	“Nevertheless mark my words there’s
something troubling her, I’ve noticed it of
late and since Hattie came home she has
been positively absent-minded.”
	But the Judge wouldn’t listen nor have

[Column 2]
her questioned, but at dinner, midday din-
ner in those days, he asked the doctor,
Elijah (of whose knowledge and skill he
was rather proud) if Ruth was ailing, at
which remark all the girls stared, (Ruth
was with her mother again as usual) but
the doctor only said heart-ache he guessed,
and Hattie provokingly queried, “Because
she hasn’t a beau?”
	“I don’t know,” jestingly the doctor re-
plied, “she’s the odd one of the family, she
may be the lucky one and astonish us all
by announcing her engagement,” and
Judith whose wise sayings were always ap-
preciated added, “There’s many a true
word spoken in jest.”
	And there the matter rested. Little they
thought what a shock was coming to the
family serenity.
	Meantime the great sled with its jolly
crowd swung out of the lane, and as the
quiet tall young men and women drove by
the scattered farm houses and on into the
great village, the folks turned out with
hallo’s and greetings glad to have the mo-
notony of the day broken into, as well as
the roads made passable. To one who has
never known this sort of thing it may seem
superfluous to tell such trifles, but if he had
lived in the northern states he could not
but be reminded what a blessing it is to
have these good natured old farmers hitch
up their teams with big, heavy sleds and
turn out on the cold frosty mornings and
let people know the whole world is not
dead, as one might almost fancy in the
dead of winter, when the white robe of
snow and ice has covered all nature with its
white mantle of drapery and turned the
rivers and fountains into marble.
	Before nightfall the house was full of
guests and every nook and corner, outside
the dining room, had a bed of some sort,
where the weary travelers might rest the
night before Thanksgiving.
	How jolly they all were except Ruthie,
who was so disappointed, for she had prom-
sed to be in the pine woods at the trysting-
place the evening before at sunset and that
was quite impossible, he must know it, she
thought, and he was such a restless,
thoughtless fellow he might venture to the
house, and then her heart stood still when
she reflected, and a thousand times over
and over she regretted that she had ever
consented to clandestine meetings. But she
consoled herself by thinking she had never
written to him, never accepted presents,
had not even promised anything only that
sometime if her father’s consent could be
gained she would be his bride. Often she
had decided to tell her mother, yet she had
never had the courage, she knew what her
mother would say, “It can never be, you
must give it up, your father will never con-
sent.” And so she had waited until now,
hoping, longing, fearing, dreading, grow-
ing paler and thinner, suffering untold
agony of soul. Of late Edwin had de-
clared he would face the inexorable Judge,
and she had plead for more time to consider
how it could be settled, knowing only so
little of the terrible feud between the fami-
lies of Dentons and Harwoods. And how
should she, the names were never mentioned
in her father’s house, and she met Edwin at
a yacht party up in the lakes, and it was
love at first sight with them both; she
would not have dared tell even that much
before her older sisters who always scoffed
at the idea, and so timid and yearning for
sympathy she carried about with her the
tender passion, feeding the flame with her

[Column 3]
inward craving for a fuller expression of its
intensity. Sometimes when alone she
cared not if all the world forsook her if she
could but see him once more, and when the
time came she trembled lest they should be
seen together, even by the birds that flew
over their heads, lest the relentless parents
should separate them forever. She would
even wait until she was as old as Judith or
older if only Edwin would be as circum-
spect as Ben Warner. But he was rash
and impetuous and threatened to go to sea
or to join the army or go to the north
pole, or any where away from Berrytown
if she would not either consent to a private
marriage or face her father’s anger.
	The evening before Thanksgiving was
one long remembered in that household.
Such music, such songs and stories, with
glad voices and smiling faces! The Judge
was in his jolliest humor, and the sweet
mother glancing from one to another of her
happy group and not one missing. Every
preparation for the morrow’s feasting had
been made, and for the eleven o’clock serv-
ice in the village meetinghouse three miles
away. Indeed the older girls were to sing
in the anthem and wear green ribbons (a
village custom) and though they had guests
they must attend meeting, it was a part of
their country life.
	At twelve o’clock prayers were said and
a fervent prayer offered that all might enjoy
the full thanksgiving of hearts made glad,
on the morrow.
(Continued on page seven.)


[Column 1]
Continued from page three.
	The great sleigh was brought into the
lane after breakfast and the singers were
soon spinning over the beautiful snow.
Ruth was on the look out for the face of
her lover, and ere long she spied him on
horseback signaling to her from a distance.
Jonathan detected him and wondered what
it meant, he too was riding and was near
the sleigh, and was annoyed. Calling to
the girls he said, “Which of you is Ed
Harwood waving to?” Ruth was breath-
less and all the others answered in chorus,
“We don’t know him even, it must be you
he wants.” Momentarily he turned his
horse and galloped after him.
	Ruth saw the maneuver and realized that
something was going to transpire.
	Jonathan coming up to the young man
bade him “good morning” and inquired
what was wanted.
	“Why to speak to your sister Ruth, can
I see her in the meeting house ?’’
	“Not unless you have my father’s per-
mission, I was not aware that you knew
her.” And without waiting longer Edwin
Harwood turned back to the house and
riding up hurriedly inquired for Judge Den-
ton and was admitted without delay, as no
one knew him and supposed he had come
on business. He no sooner saw the Judge
than he told his errand quickly. The fath-
er calm and self-possessed asked him if he
loved Ruth, where had he seen her and
why had he come in such an imperious
fashion so early in the morning, half a
dozen questions in one. To all of these
the young man answered hurriedly, adding
his father had forbidden him to enter the
house again or speak to his mother if he
persisted in keeping the company of one of
the Denton family.
	The Judge coolly listened to every word,
and when young Harwood had finished
said, “I am sorry for you, but you are
young and strong, strike out for yourself,
with your education you can face the
world alone, until your father relents.”
	“Alone never. Ruth loves me and I
will marry her with your consent.”
	"I cannot give it sir, she is the very ap-
ple of my eye, and you have been winning
her without my knowledge it appears, and
now when your father refuses, you expect
me to yield after having been deceived, it
is too much!” and the Judge strong and
self-reliant as he had always been grew
pale and trembled.
	A moment Harwood waited thinking the
Judge would give way, but meantime the
young doctor drove up, who had been out
to see his patients and his father looked to
him the moment he entered the porch where
the conversation had taken place, and said,
“Lije settle with this man I cannot, but he
must not see your sister Ruth.”
	When the Judge had closed the door Ed-
win burst out impetuously, and the doctor
saw at once how matters stood and prom-
ised to befriend him.
	“It will pretty near kill the Judge to give
in, but I’ll do my best for you. I suspect-
ed something of the sort, in fact I saw you
and my sister together on one occasion. I
thought it might have been an accidental
meeting, however, although I was aware
you met at the lakes last summer, and she
has not been like herself of late."
	The fact was the young man showed such
spirit that he won the doctor’s sympathy, 
and he felt how cruel it would be to separ-
ate those young people because of a quarrel

[Column 2]
half a century ago. He urged the young
man to exercise a little self-control until he
could reason with his father, and promised
to stand by his sister whatever happened.
	Poor little Ruth had been very nervous
all through the sermon, and she fairly
broke down during the singing and never
tried a note. When meeting was out and
they started homeward she shook so it was
impossible not to observe it, and when she
reached the house had to be put to bed, her
brother, the doctor, was called, and this
was his opportunity.
	He soon found out that she was quite as
much in love as the young man, and made
up his mind let what would come he would
help them. The house was full of visitors,
but they were all kinsfolk, and it helped
more than hindered because his father was
occupied, and he had not been told how ill
Ruth was.
	In his conversation with his sister he
said, “Its very evident that Edwin will
have to leave here, he is a brilliant fellow,
can get good recommendations from college
friends and would succeed anywhere; but
he will not go without you, now I will en-
deavor to get father’s consent to the mar-
riage and I will go away with you and see
you settled.”
	Ruth protested against leaving her moth-
er, though she had often fancied before-
hand that she could leave every one for her
lover.
	Hattie was called in and was so delight-
ed that she could scarcely be pursuaded to
keep quiet.
	“And the wedding will be a reality after
all, and it must be today, and let me tell 
Judith and Sarah Ann, and they will be
jealous.”
	“No, no, little sister, you are not to tell 
any one yet, I will see the Rev. Josiah
Cummings, and Ben Warner, and will
manage it all this very day after dinner.”
	And the doctor’s ingenuity and tact
served him well, he arranged all the details
and then sprung the question to his father
when he was in the very gayest spirits after
a fine dinner, and though he demurred at
first he was over-ruled by the strong will
of his son.
	Meantime Ben Warner and the minister,
(who were dining at the house) getting
courage from the success of young Har-
wood made bold to ask for the girls, Judith
and Sarah Ann, and the Judge was more 
than willing to consent.
	"I can give my daughters to you with-
out any misgivings, both sterling men of
good family, but this rash young Harwood
who comes to me and demands Ruth, tell-
ing me he will have her with or without
my consent, I shall not say yes. The
doctor takes all the responsibility. I simply
leave the matter in his hands.”
	“Oh, that’s all right Judge, he has great
courage.”'
	“Far too much just like his family, I
want none of them,” and the good minister
seeing the Judge grow angry said, “But
the question is who is to perform the cere-
mony for me? I have promised Ben Warn-
er, and the doctor has asked me to marry
Ruth and Edwin, now Judge will you per-
form the ceremony as well as to give me
my wife?”
	“To be plain with you, I don’t care to
have any hand in this business; who ever
heard of a sober Puritan family getting to-
gether and making matches on Thanks-
giving instead of conducting themselves


[Column 1]
with propriety as becomes the day, and by
George, the house full of company to see
and hear it all!”
	“The company need not know every-
thing, they will be the guests of honor to
wish the brides happiness and drink their
health, let them believe the whole matter
understood, as in fact it seems to have been.”
	“But what will mother say?” the Judge
interposed, “she will never consent to such
out of the way doings, and the first wedding
in the family.”
	“Leave mother to me and to Hattie who
has been trying to get somebody married
ever since she came home.”
	“I’ll have nothing to do with this inde-
cent haste, the house turned topsy turvy to
please this madcap Harwood, its all his do-
ings, sober-minded men would never think
of such haste.”
	“But Warner here and the minister have
both been trying to ask you and had not
the courage, now that Harwood has opened
the ball who knows what may happen? We
may all marry soon, Hattie wants to intro-
duce all sorts of new-fangled notions, and a
triple wedding is rather novel in a staid
Yankee home.”
	“Yes Lije an unheard of thing, and for
my part I’m ashamed of it, even if there
are eleven in family I’ve always been proud
and glad to have my children with me, and
as for the girls I don’t care to spare one of
them, the house is big enough and I’m
not, anxious to be left alone at my time of
life, not even with mother. By George, I
don’t like this way of doing business, and
that Harwood, I can’t have him here with
his airs and impudence and his own father
turned him out, my daughter marry one of
that family!” and the Judge broke down
completely.
	However the buoyancy of the brides and
bridegrooms elect, and particularly of Hat-
tie who flitted from room to room with the
help, and brightened all the place with the
evergreens and pine and ornamentation such
as could be improvised at a moment’s notice,
besides consulting with her older sisters
about their finery, and it was surprising
what Judith and Sarah Ann had put away
for special occasions.
	“And the special occasion,” Hattie told
them, “was a wedding of course, for you
never go to balls, and these things are only
suitable for evening ball dresses or a wed-
ding”. And so she teased them, but poor,
little Ruth was left to herself and slept un-
der the soothing influence of her good
brother’s assurances, and at dinner refused
to go down, in fact she gave no thought
about what she should wear any more than
the lilies of the field, which she so much re-
sembled, when at last she rose reluctantly
and was daintily attired in one of Hattie’s
party dresses.
	After dinner when the guests and part of
the family were assembled in the quaint,
old, dark parlor with a huge fire of pine
knots, in walked the minister and Judith
and Ben Warner; and the doctor who was
the prime-mover in the affair explained to
the visitors that there was a surprise for
them, and he was quite sure they would all
enjoy it. And then without further cere-
mony the Judge gave his eldest daughter to
Ben Warner, and the minister in a few
words united them for life. Congratula-
tions followed, but the doctor interrupted
them and announced quickly that the min-
ister was so elated over marrying other peo-
ple that he wished to be married himself,

[Column 2]
and brought forward his sister Sarah Ann
and the Judge made quick work of the cere-
mony.
	Pale and yet blushing came demure little
Ruth escorted by her great brother the law-
yer—who gave her to the handsome, dash-
ing man that none of the guests knew even
by sight. The minister turned from his
bride and the ceremony was over before the
astonished company had time to compre-
hend the situation.
	Instead of gaiety and merriment a solemn
silence fell upon the gathering, and they
sat and watched the flickering flames of the
great pine fire, and scarce a word was spok-
en and no inquiries made.
	The doctor was the only talkative one
and even he was inclined to reticence; no
explanations were given and it was diffi-
cult to understand whether the whole affair
was a reality or a huge joke.
	Morning, however, brought changes; the
minister and his bride were missing from
the family table, having gone to the parson-
age, Judith and Ben to the Warner home,
and Ruth and the doctor had flown. Hattie
however, was equal to the occasion and
kept up the conversation at breakfast with
a very good grace, though she was not so
well pleased with the culmination of affairs
as she had anticipated when she determined
on getting somebody married. Her father’s
frowns and her mother’s pale face were a
constant reproach for years afterwards,
although no real blame could attach to her.
	Her brilliancy attracted the attention of
the numerous relatives, tho’ much of her
gaiety was assumed for the time being. A
distant cousin, one of the time-honored
Russell family, was so enamored of her wit
and beauty that he followed her up with
tender love letters, and later on they cele-
brated their nuptials in Augusta with all
the elegant paraphernalia the city afforded.
	Dr. Denton and Mr. and Mrs. Harwood
settled in Western New York, and many
years elapsed before they visited the old
home in Berrytown. Judge Denton and
his amiable wife had passed away and the
house was lonely enough with the bachelor
brother Samuel, Jonathan had gone to Port-
land to practice law, David had married
and set up in business for himself in the
county adjoining. Drucilla had been
widowed and returned home with two or-
phan children, and Hannah and Elsie had
both married Smiths, as Hattie predicted,
and gone to homes of their own.
	Ruth never regretted her marriage but
always longed for her mother and the dear
ones; but one often realizes the hand
of destiny in separations that in themselves
were regretful, and so it was with the Den-
tons who from force of circumstances drifted
westward, and when a new Gospel was
preached in their locality being alone as it
were, without ties of relationship to oppose,
the way was open for them without so
much opposition as they must otherwise
have encountered, and Ruth and Edwin
were among the early converts to the new
faith, and although the doctor was a free
thinker and never accepted baptism, yet he
was a friend to the people, and eventually
the Harwood family which was also a large
one had the privilege of doing vicarious
work for those who had rejected them and
cast them off to face the world alone, and
thus the Thanksgiving day of disappoint-
ment became in turn a remembrance which .
proved a more lasting Thanksgiving than
feasting and social enjoyment. But the

[Column 3]
poet spoke truly when he wrote 
	“But Heaven hath a hand in all these things.”
	And in this case as in many other instan-
ces, what seemed a great calamity was a
blessing in disguise though they knew it
not, but in the years that followed many
were the thanksgivings offered to Him who
rules and over-rules the destinies of those
who are to take part in His work upon the
earth.
						E. B W.


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EIGHTY YEARS.
		TO MRS M I. HORNE.

The whispering winds of eighty summers,
	Have kissed thy cheek from Youth to Age:
And blown the rose’s fragrance o'er thee,
	As years like leaves have turned a page.
O, blissful dreams of youthful summers,
	Ye idle winds so ight and gay,
When leaves are flut ering in the sunshine
	Throughout the long and happy day.

O, joyous winds have ye fled forever?
	Away forever from our fond recall? —
Chil[-] Au umn winds sob by the window,
	As the tinted leaves begin to fall.
Ye birds of summer that sing in gladness,
	When the balmy breeze goes sighing by;
Long too, [-]ou’ve gone beyond remembrance
	With the leaves that in the pathway lie. 

The years have crowned thee dear, with glory,
	Though eighty snows have changed thy hair,
From glossy dark to tinted whiteness—
	Thy face e’en now is grand and fair.
And ’round thy life a halo lingers,
	Like Indian summer’s crimson hue,
And purple fruitage rich wit[-] ripeness,
	Life’s golden crown thus rests on you.

A life well lived through all the journey;
	The wisdom gathered by the way,
Bestows the Indian summer’s glory,
	And adds the halo we love today. 
Honor to thy many virtues! prophetically
	They speak to ages yet unborn;
In lasting faith with truth and justic ,
	Thy record’s made, dear Sister Horne
						LYDIA D. ALDER.
November 20, 1898.


We all of us complain of the shortness of
time, and yet have much more than we
know what to do with. We are always
complaining that our days are few, and act-
ing as though there would be no end to them.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 				
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at Pthe ost Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY DECEMBER 1, 1898.


[Column 1]
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION.

MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
	On Sunday the 20th of November, Sister
M. Isabella Horne of this city reached the
dignity and celebrity of four score years, in
full possession of all her faculties and a
good degree of health and energy. Sister
Horne has had a remarkable and eventful
life, more than thirty years of it devoted to
public duties, charitable and philanthropic,
and the temporal, religious and spiritual
welfare of the community.
	Her first public position was when she
was chosen president of the Relief Society
of the Fourteenth ward in this city, and
afterwards she was called by President
Young to preside over the General Re-
trenchment Association at its first organiza-
tion, with seven counselors at that time,
they were Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D.
H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sarah M.
Kimball, Miranda P. Hyde, Phebe W.
Woodruff and Margaret Smoot. When
Sister Smoot moved to Provo Sister Eliza-
beth Howard was chosen to fill the vacancy.
At the present time there are three of the
seven still living, Zina D. H. Young, Bath-
sheba W. Smith and Sarah M. Kimball.
Sister Horne traveled through the several
Stakes of Zion with Sister Eliza, Sister
Zina and others from that time and has con-
tinued ever since to visit the various locali-
ities in the interest of the Latter-day work.
	December 22, 1877, Sister Horne was
elected to preside over the Relief Society
in the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, and June
19, 1880 was chosen treasurer of the Central
Board of the General Relief Society.
	Sister Horne was chairman of the Execu-
tive Committee of the Deseret Hospital
Association when it was established in May
1882, and served faithfully twelve years in
that capacity. She was also an active offic-
er in the Deseret Silk Association for many
years, and has always been a practical ad-
vocate of home productions and home in-
dustries. When the Woman’s Coopera-
tive Store was established in 1890 she was
the unanimous choice of the board of
directors for its president, as she had al-
ways made a success of executive work.
	Sister Horne is one of the strongest ad-
vocates of political equality and when suf-
frage was given to the women of Utah in
1870, she rejoiced in the privilege of casting
her ballot for men who would stand for
justice and equality. It was about that
time that President Young nominated Sis-

[Column 2]
ter Horne, Justice of the Peace for the pre-
cinct in which she lived; for several years
she was a member of the Central Committee
of the County and Territory, and her work
in political, charitable and religious lines
has been marked by great earnestness and
characteristic, individuality; and her un-
wavering steadfastness and integrity to the
Gospel is always noticable.
	As a mother and wife her record is with-
out a blemish, and it may well be said of
her “Her works praise her.” She was
married comparatively young for those
days and had fifteen children. She with
her companion, Elder Joseph Horne, lived
to celebrate not only their golden wedding
but also their sixtieth anniversary. Sister
Horne has a numerous posterity, about
ninety grandchildren and thirty great
grandchildren; a mother in Israel in very
deed.
	On Saturday, November 19, a gathering
in her honor convened in the Assembly
Hall in this City, and her counselor, Annie
T. Hyde presided. Prof. C. J. Thomas
with some of the Temple choir took charge
of the music. Counselor Clara C. Cannon
offered the opening prayer, after singing
again by the choir Annie T. Hyde in a few
well chosen words presented an elegant
album made at home in Utah, bound in
morocco with silver clasps and gold letter-
ing, containing loving sentiments from
many friends and each president of a branch
of the society in the Salt Lake Stake of Zion.
	President Zina D. H. Young made the
opening address in her heartfelt, motherly
fashion. A letter was read by Mrs. E. B.
Wells from President Jane S. Richards of
Ogden, expressing love for Sister Horne
and regret at not being present. Remarks
were made by Prests. B. W. Smith, Elmina
S. Taylor Bishop G. H. Taylor and
Apostle H. J. Grant. Dr. E. S. Barney
read her address which was replete with
tenderness and high regard couched in
beautiful language. President Mary A.
Hyde spoke a few words in the gift of
tongues which was interpreted by President
Zina D. H. Young. Mrs. E. B. Wells and
L. John Nuttall also made brief remarks,
and then President Horne responded to the
honors conferred upon her in a modest and
appreciative speech, giving some incidents
in her life that were quite remarkable. The
congregation united in singing the favorite
hymn “O, my Father,” and benediction
was pronounced by Elder George Goddard.
	A dinner party was given for Sister
Horne on Monday, November 21, at the
residence of her daughter, Mrs. Joseph
Tingey, to which about fifty of her most in-
timate friends were invited. The principal
guest was President George Q. Cannon,
Apostle H. J. Grant was also present and a
number of the most eminent women of the
Church. Five of Sister Horne’s daughters
were present and two of her sons. Joseph
Horne, one of the presidency of Sevier
Stake, arrived when the company had as-
sembled, which was a surprise to the moth-
er as well as a great pleasure.
	Sister Horne received several valuable
presents from relatives and friends, tokens
of friendship and esteem, The rooms were
handsomely decorated with smilax, chrysan-
themums and carnations. The dinner was
delicious and tastefully served and the
guests were as happy as though celebrating
a marriage feast. Letters of congratulation
from a distance, poems etc., were read and
social conversation indulged in, later on
extempore speeches were made and the

[Column 3]
evening passed in delightful interchange of
kindly feeling.
	Of Sister Horne it may be truly said,
“Her children rise up and call her blessed.”


AN INTERESTING PARTY.
	At the residence of Mrs. Amelia F. Young
in her handsome parlors on Tuesday after-
noon, November 15, there were assembled
a company of ladies who represented at least
three of the principal families of early Utah,
Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and
Daniel H. Wells. Of President Young’s
family there were present seven wives and
sixteen daughters, including the two eldest
born before the Church was organized in
the State of New York. Elizabeth the eld-
est had come from Idaho five or six hun-
dred miles to attend this gathering, having
to travel by team part of the way. It was
a goodly assemblage and we were forcibly
reminded of the gatherings in the Social
hall in the days now departed when we were
accustomed to see those heroic representa-
tives of the Church and the State, Brigham
Young, Heber C. Kimball, George A.
Smith. Daniel H. Wells, John Taylor, Or-
son Hyde, Wilford Woodruff, Orson Pratt
and many others well known as founders of
this commonwealth. Brother Fulsom,
father of Mrs Amelia F. Young, and his
wife were also of the company, and after
general conversation, partaking of a deli-
cious repast in the handsome dining room
of the hostess, remarks were made by some
of those present mostly of a reminescent,
congratulatory character. Meantime Bishop
Clawson came in and was called upon to
offer a benediction as some of the guests
were ready to leave; the Bishop asked per-
mission to make a few remarks and told of
his experience on the stage, his intimate
acquaintance with Joseph Smith and men-
tioned the Prophet’s love for the idealities,
the drama etc., as well as for practical and
athletic sports and games. It was a happy
reunion of old friends who are occupied
with daily duties to the exclusion of that
sweet intercourse which makes all friends
feel akin to each other.


UNITED IN MARRIAGE.

	The wedding ceremony of Prof. Antoine
Muzzarilli Ph. D., and Miss Mary R.
Brandow of St. Joseph, Mo., was solemnized
Saturday, Nov. 5, at high noon at the Ro-
man Catholic Church in this city, Father
Kiley officiating. The bride was a teacher
in the public schools of her native city, St.
Joseph, several years, and is spoken of in
their home papers as one of the most popu-
lar and accomplished young women of that
city. She was accompanied to Salt Lake by
her brother, Mr. Edward Brandow, of the
firm of Brandow Bros. Mr. Brandow re-
mained a few days and was present at his
sister’s marriage.
	Prof. Muzzarilli is a distinguished soldier,
journalist and litterateur. He was for ten
years director of the School of Languages in
New York City. In many ways he has
had a remarkable career. Appleton’s Cly-
clopedia of American Biography gives a
brief account of him. He served as cap-
tain of engineers in the Franco-German
war and against the communists in 1871. He
was one of the editors of La Republique
Francaise, the organ of Gambetta, and
later on president of the Democratic Com


mittee of Paris. In 1876 he came to the
United States. He visited Peru and Chili
and was war correspondent of the Chilian
army. He returned to the United States in
1880. He has visited Japan and the north
of Africa and is the author of Histoire de
la guerr du Pacifique, two volumes Paris
(1880) and several other books, fourteen in
all. His text books are used in high schools
and some of the best colleges. He is the
originator and director of the Alliance
Franco-American institution and is at
present engaged in teaching French in this
city by the natural method.
	The “Exponent” offers fervent congratu-
lations to the newly wedded pair, wishing
them bon voyage over the sea of life.
	Wedded love is founded on esteem,
	Which the fair merits of the mind engage;
	For there are charms which never can decay,
	But time which gives new whiteness to the swan
				Improves their lustre.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“MUSINGS AND MEMORIES.”

	“Musings and Memories” is a volume of
poems entirely of home production, and is
very suitable as a gift for the holidays. The
book is sufficiently elegant in appearance
for any drawing room or library table. It
contains three hundred pages and includes
a steel engraving of the author. It is for
sale at the office of the “Woman’s Expo-
nent,” Templeton Building, opposite Deseret
News office. Cloth binding, $1.25; dainty
cover, $1.50; morocco, $2.00. Those liv-
ing outside Salt Lake City who might wish
to purchase the book should address,
	MRS. E. B. WELLS,
		Templeton Building,
			Salt Lake City Utah.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	At the quarterly conference of the Box
Elder Stake of Zion held on Sunday and
Monday, the 13th and 14th of November,
President Lorenzo Snow being present the
officers of the Relief Society of that Stake
were chosen to fill the vacancy caused by
the demise of the president, Sister Olivia
Widerborg, and the resignation of her
counselors. The officers elected were Sus-
anna P. Booth, president; Emelia D. Mad-
sen and Louisa Peters, counselors; secretary
and treasurer, names not yet known.
	On Saturday, November 6, President
Ann C. Woodbury of St. George Stake,
with her counselors, Emma Morris and
Jane T. Bleak, visited Gunlock ward and
held a meeting with the Relief Society, a
very good spirit was manifest. Although
at that time there had been no storms in
St. George, Sister Woodbury says they
were surprised on their return from Gun-
lock to see the shrubs in the Temple grounds
covered with ice, “the spray having frozen
on them, it was an unusual sight.”
	A very pleasant reception was given on
Saturday, November 12, by Mrs. W. W.
Riter and Mrs. C. H. Wells at Mrs. Riter’s
residence, from two to five p. m. The
handsome parlors were beautifully decora-
ted with autumn leaves, flowers, potted
plants etc., chrysanthemums in abundance
and delightful music by a string band. Mrs.
Riter and Mrs. Wells received together.
Guests came and went during the entire
afternoon and all who wished were served

[Column 2]
with tea, coffee, wafers and candy by
charming young ladies in airy costumes
who were delighted to do the honors. It
was a brilliant affair and a perfect success,
judging from the animated conversation and
the lingering of groups chatting in corners.
	Ex-Qeuen Liluokalani visited Salt Lake
on Saturday, Nov. 26, en route for Wash-
ington, remaining only one day. The
Hawaiians paid her great respect, meeting
her at the depot and showing her every
courtesy possible. Through the kindness
of Sister Emily G. Cluff, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
and the writer were favored with an intro-
duction and the great pleasure of convers-
ing with her for a short time. The late
queen is very affable and interesting, fond
of poetry and literature, has written books
and translated from other languages. She
is a patron of the Historical Society of
Polynesia. She sings pathetically and on
the occasion of our interview she sang a
favorite ballad “Aloha oe,” and played her
own accompaniment on the piano. She en-
tertains a high regard for our people, and
was interested in all we are doing especial-
ly in the work of women. She referred to
woman’s work in general and spoke of hav-
ing attended the Mothers’ Congress in
Washington and other conventions of wo-
men.
	On Wednesday November 23, the Gardo
House, famous for many brilliant gather-
ings, was opened by its present occupants,
Mr. and Mrs A.W. McCune also famous en-
tertainers, to about two hundred invited
guests, most of them Temple workers. A
program had been arranged and opened
with sacred music by the Temple choir
led by Prof. C. J. Thomas. Prayer was
offered by Bishop George H. Taylor, and
after some rich music by the sweet singers
of Israel, President Lorenzo Snow made the
opening address in his usual dignified and
impressive manner. Other brief speeches
were made interspersed with musical selec-
tions and a few choice recitations The
guests were invited to the elegant, large
dining hall where a tempting repast was
waiting, the program being continued
meanwhile. After the numerous company
had all been served there were a few more
speeches by brethren and one by President
Zina D. H. Young, and as the guests were
dispersing the Doxology was sung and
Brother Claridge of Arizona, the father
of Sister McCune, pronounced the benedic-
tion. The guests were profuse in their
expressions of appreciation of the pleasant
time given them by the amiable host and
hostess who seemed solicitous that all
should enjoy themselves, and the affair was
certainly a great success socially and spirit-
ually.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Sister Olivia Widerborg, president of the
Relief Society of Box Elder Stake, departed
this life on the 27th of September, 1898, in
Brigham City, Box Elder county, after a
lingering illness of many months, or in fact
years.
	Olivia Nelsen Widerborg was born on the
4th of December, 1832, in Maribo on Lol
land, Denmark. She embraced the Gospel
in Copenhagan, February 16, 1855, was
baptized by Elder Niels Hansen. In 1858
she emigrated to Utah and was married
November 28, 1860, to Elder Carl Wider-
borg in Salt Lake City.


Her husband died in 1867 and she was
left alone to support herself and children.
She was connected with the Relief Society
work in Ogden and acted as secretary in
the Primary Association in the 3rd ward of
Ogden. In 1878 she removed to Brigham
City and became an active member of the
Relief Society here. On September 8, 1885,
she was appointed second counselor to
President Harriet A. Snow. In July 1890,
she was elected president of Box Elder
Stake after the death of President Harriet
A. Snow, which position she held at the
time of her death.
	Sister Widerborg was beloved by her sis-
ters, she was a woman of great integrity,
full of the spirit of discernment and charity,
a friend to the poor, the distressed and the
sorrowful, she was particularly gifted both
intellectually and spiritually. Her faith
and trust in God was perfect, and through
all her long sufferings she manifested a
sweet spirit of patience and submission to
the will of the Lord.
	She possessed the rare gift of inspiring
others with confidence, the poor and dis-
tressed would feel free to come to her per-
sonally and never did any one leave her
empty-handed or empty-hearted, according
to their need. Of her can be truly said,
“She did magnify her holy calling.” 
	Lovingly from her colaborers,
	Mary Wright, 1st counselor; Zilla Reese,
2nd counselor; Annie Wiscom, recording sec-
retary; Emelia Madsen, corresponding secre-
tary; Fanny Graehl, treasurer; Eugenie S. 
Pierce, assistant secretary.


R. S. REPORTS.

WAYNE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Wayne
Stake was held at Junction, Wayne Co.,
on Sunday afternoon, August 28, 1898.
Present on the stand the Stake officers of
the society and President W. E. Robison,
Counselors H. M. Hanson and G. S. Bas-
tian, also Patriarch E. H. Blackburn and
other brethren. Meeting opened by sing-
ing “Praise to the man” etc. Prayer offered
by President W. E. Robison. Singing
“Hail to the brightness” etc.
	President Jane S. Coleman spoke upon
the gifts and privileges of the Gospel. She
said that mothers should not neglect their
homes, they should teach their children in
their youth the principles of the Gospel.
She had lately visited, in company with
Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe and Sister
Louisa Brown, six of the local Relief Soci-
ety branches and could report them in good
condition, awake to their duties and an in-
crease in attendance at meetings. Gave in-
structions pertaining to Relief Society work
and the duties of teachers, advised the
presidents and grain committees to com-
mence gathering up the grain while it was
plentiful and fulfill the obligation placed
upon us in this direction to save up grain
for future need.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe was thank-
ful for the privilege of meeting in confer-
ence, said we should strive continually to
enjoy the spirit of God that our faith may
increase. She was pleased to see the inter-
est manifested among the sisters in the Re-
lief Society work and noted the union that
existed in the different branches where she
had lately visited in the Stake. Gave good
advice to mothers on many subjects pertain-
ing to living good lives and practicing our


[Column 1]
religion in our daily walk and conversation.
	Teasdale Relief Society was reported in
good condition by Counselor Margaret A.
Adams. She also bore testimony to the
truth of the Latter-day work. Aldrich
society was reported by the president in
good order. Sister Eliza Rust, president
of Cainsville society, reported well. They
cultivate an acre lot for the benefit of their
society, she also stated the young sisters
were members and were united with them
and acted as assistant teachers.
	Sister Thisbe Hanks bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel, spoke up-
on the power of the priesthood in adminis-
tering to the sick and upon the gift of heal-
ing. and exhorted the young to be faithful.
	President W. E. Robison said he had en-
joyed the remarks of the sisters and the
spirit of the meeting, would have been
pleased if more of the brethren had been
present. He was gratified to know that
the sisters were energetic in saving grain,
appreciated their labors and spoke very en-
couragingly of the same, wished them suc-
cess and prayed God to bless them.
	Sister Elizabeth Jeffry of Loa bore testi-
mony to the lovely truths of the Gospel,
said we should practice the spirit of love
and charity and sustain the Relief Society
by our good works.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing “Redeemer of Israel.” Benedic-
tion by G. S. Bastian.
		ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.
ALBERTA, CANADA.
	The Relief Society of Alberta Stake held
its annual conference at the Leavitt meet-
ing house October 8, 1898, President Mary
L. Woolf presiding. Singing “Glorious
things of thee are spoken.” Prayer by
Elder Niels Hanson. Singing “Come let
us anew.” Roll was called showing thir-
teen officers present each responding with a
sentiment. Minutes of the forenoon ses-
sion of the previous conference read and ap-
proved.
	President Woolf said the object in hold-
ing our conferences in other wards was to
give all the sisters a chance to attend
There is a great mission for mothers, she
realized it more every day. She wished
the sisters to be punctual and enjoy the
spirit of God that will be given when in
the line of our duties. We should look
after the poor and comfort those afflicted
and downcast. We should also visit those
who are coming into our midst and make
them welcome. Desired to be energetic
and perform the labors required of her.
	President Anna Baker of Leavitt had
been unable to attend her duties being al-
most constantly at the bedside of her
mother, asked for the faith and prayers of
the sisters in her mother’s behalf.
	Counselor Sarah Broadbent of Leavitt re-
ported the society as being in a prosperous
condition. She knew the sisters were bless-
ed with the spirit of God and desired to do
all in their power to roll on the great work.
	President Elizabeth Webb reported the
Mountain View society. Although in a
scattered condition the sisters were united
and faithful in performing their labors.
	Counselor Elizabeth Leavitt of Leavitt
felt to do her duty as a worker in the Re-
lief Society.
	Counselor Eva Hanson of Ætna society 
said they were in a very scattered condi-
tion and it was difficult for the sisters to at-
tend their meetings, but if they would be

[Column 2]
prayerful the Lord would open up the way
for them to meet together and receive spirit-
ual food. Mothers so much need to train
their children in the right way, nothing
gave her more pleasure than to gather her
little ones around her and instruct them in
the things of God. God knows our very
thoughts and if we are faithful He will
bless us according to our needs. It is a
great mission to be a mother, she felt grate
ful for every dear little one intrusted to her
care and desired great wisdom to guide
them aright.
	Sister Annie Layne said she knew the
spirit of God was with us. The Lord is
blessing the people in this Stake of Zion
and we should not complain. Felt grate-
ful that her children were all in the Church.
	Sister Martha Quinton said although
their numbers were few they could realize
the promise of the Savior, that when a few
meet in His name His spirit will be with
them. Knew she had been healed by the
power of God and felt grateful for the kind-
ness of the sisters during her illness. Said
if we would attend our meetings we would
be built up and return to our homes re-
freshed and be better prepared to attend to
the cares and duties of life. Go before our
Heavenly Father and He will lighten our
burdens.
	Sister Eliza Leavitt had received a testi-
mony to the truth of the work, felt to do
her duty.
	Elder Charles Quinton addressed the con-
ference. Said there never has been a time
in the history of the Church when the
Saints have been more blessed than at the
present time, we are blessed with inspired
leaders, knew the sisters were inspired and
spoke by the spirit of God. Whatever we
are called upon to do, it is our duty to re-
spond. He had laid aside his labors to at-
tend the conference and felt blessed in so
doing.
	President Mary L. Woolf made a few
closing remarks. Felt grateful for the
sweet influence that had been in our midst.
Meeting was adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “Where the voice of friendship’s heard.”
Benediction by Counselor Jane Hinman.
	Afternoon session, President Mary L.
Woolf presiding. Singing “Guide us O
Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer by Elder
Francis Broadbent. Singing “O my
Father.” Minutes of afternoon session of
previous conference read and approved.
	President Woolf desired all the presidents
of the several branches of the society to
subscribe for the “Exponent,” urged the
sisters to sustain it, said it was a valuable
paper. Spoke of the building that the
society wanted to erect in Salt Lake City
for the purpose of holding the Relief Soci-
ety conferences. She wished the sisters to
assist those who preside and donate liber-
ally for the purpose.
	President Sarah Daines said: “We are
engaged in a grand and noble work, if we
could all understand our duties and per-
form them we should be a power in the
land. Mothers are looked to as an example
for their children, they should set worthy
examples. We should teach our children
to reverence the priesthood of God and His
house of worship and show respect to the
aged.” Reported the Cardston ward, the
sisters were all faithful in their labors.
Said we must have charity to do good, we
are all God’s children, we should pray for
those who are downcast and afflicted.
	Counselor E. Davidson of Mt View said it

[Column 3]
was good for us to be here and partake of
the spirit of God. She had a desire to do
her duty, had received many testimonies
that the work we are engaged in is true.
	Counselor Rhoda C. Hinman said God is
pleased with us when we lay aside our
labors and attend our meetings. We are
blest abundantly and have many oppor-
tunities today we did not have a few years
ago. We should improve our time and
progress in wisdom and knowledge. Our
mission is to look after the poor and afflict-
ed, hoped we would always be found doing
our duty.
	The congregation then sang “The spirit
of God like a fire is burning.”
	Counselor Jane Hinman said: “Mothers
have great responsibilities, carry the spirit
and instructions you have received here to
your homes. Let us show by our works
that we love God and keep His command-
ments.”
	Elder Niels Hanson said he had been
greatly edified in meeting with the sisters,
knew they were trying to perform their
duties as mothers and they could not be en-
gaged in a greater work. Felt grateful he
had heard and embraced the true Gospel of
Christ, that his children could be brought
up under the right influence. Prayed God
to bless the sisters with strength to per-
form their duties.
	President Woolf had been delighted with
the conference. Said: “Sisters make an
effort to attend your meetings and the Lord
will open up the way. Do not be back-
ward in arising to bear your testimonies, it
will strengthen you. Teach your children
to honor the priesthood, if we teach them
correct principles they will not depart from
them. Teach them faith practically, when
they are sick have them kneel with you
and pray together for the recovery of those
afflicted.”
	Counselor Jane Hinman then presented
the names of the General and Stake officers,
all were unanimously sustained.
	President Anna Baker felt pleased with
the good time we had had together and
thanked the sisters for their kindness to her
mother.
	May Lula Ibey bore her testimony. She
had been taught faith practically from her
youth, had been healed by faith and ad-
ministration. Spoke of the words uttered
by our late President Wilford Woodruff at
the April conference. We do not appre-
ciate the day we live in; the coming of the
Savior is nearer our door than we realize.
Let us live faithfully and be prepared for
the blessings that await us, pray for the
spirit of discernment and cultivate the gift
of faith.
	Meeting was adjourned for three months.
Singing “I long to breathe the mountain
air.” Benediction by Brother Charles
Quinton.
		MARY L. IBEY, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

ELEANOR PATTERSON.
	On Saturday, August 20, 1898, Sister Eleanor
Patterson departed this life in her home at St.
Johns, Arizona. She was thirty-four years and
eleven days old. She had born to her six girls,
four of whom are still living, and one boy, which
was seven months old at her death. Her health
has been such since its birth that she has not been
able to enjoy the heavenly gift she had so much
desired, and in fact she had been a sufferer for
about two years previous.
	She was a consistent Latter-day Saint, a true


wife and mother in the highest sense of the term,
and I firmly believe she would not be afraid to
have her record read from the house tops. She
was counselor to the president of the Relief Soci-
ety of this ward and we the members of the Relief
Society desire to express our deep and earnest
sympathy for the household so bereaved, and we
lament the loss of such an exemplary member of
our society although we feel her reward is sure.
					R. E. BERRY SEC.
MARY RICHES EAGAR.
	At 3 o’clock Sunday, October 2, 1896, at Apache,
Arizona Co., the spirit of our esteemed sister,
Mary B. Riches Eagar, aged forty-five years, was
called home to the sweet beyond.
	Although her demise has cast a gloom over our
society of which she was so active a member we
feel to acknowledge the hand of our Heavenly
Father. Sister Eagar had served as an officer in
the Relief Society of this ward (Union) for many
years. She was first sustained as secretary Jan.
1, 1880, and acted in that capacity u[-]til June 14,
1891, at which date she was honorably released
from acting as secretary and at once chosen and
sustained as second counselor. She served as
counselor until Ju[-]y 1896, at which date she was
again chosen and sustained as secretary which
office she held till the time of her death.
	Sister Eagar died as she had lived a true Latter
day Saint, and that is all that could be said in any
one’s praise. She leaves a husband and eleven
children to mourn her loss.
	Our society feels to tender its sympathy to the
family and relatives wherever they may be.
		CHARLOTTE JENSEN Pres.
		MAGGIE JENSEN, Asst Sec.
JANE WILKIE BLOOD.
	We are again called to part with one of our
faithful fellow laborers in the Relief Society, Sis-
ter Jane Wilkie Blood.
	Sister Blood was born in Southampton, Hamp-
shire, England, May 2, 1845. In 1854 she with
her parents came to Utah. They arrived in Salt
Lake City on October 3, 1854, and she was mar-
ried to William Blood in 1860.
	Sister Blood was called to act as a teacher in
the Kaysville Relief Society May 14, 1868, and
cheerfully filled this place, always being willing
to do whatever she was called upon. A short
time after she was chosen treasurer in the same
society. She was always ready to relieve the poor
and needy and was always at her post of duty
She was blessed wi[-]h a strong will power and
never shrank from any task that lay before her.
	In 1879 she was called to preside over the
Primary Association. On July 17, 1882, she was
chosen first counselor to Sarah B. Layton in the
Relief Society, which office she filled until she
passed away.
	She was the mother of five sons and five
daughters and they all survive her.
	Sister Blood was a friend to the Indians, and
often gave them food and clothing. She took
great pleasure in teaching the young people the
Gospel. For thirty years she was a member of
the Kaysville choir, also a teacher in the Sunday
School for many years. Her motto was duty be-
fore pleasure, and she attended to her household
duties, never complaining. We have no doubt
but Sister Blood has gone to continue her labors
in the spirit world.
	On September 7, after an illness of five months
she passed away, leaving her ten children and
a husband to mourn her loss, being full of faith to
the end.
				SARAH B. LAYTON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A new leaflet “Clara Barton on Equal
Suffrage,” is now ready and may be had at
the Headquarters, 3 Park St., Boston at 15
cents per hundred.
	Tuesday November 8, women voted for
Congressmen and State officers in four
states. In Wyoming they have had full
suffrage for twenty-nine years in Colorado
for five, in Utah and Idaho for two. In
Idaho where the women took part in a
national election for the first time the dis-
patches say they showed great interest and
voted in large numbers but not “on parti-
san lines.” Everywhere women show a
marked tendency to vote for the best man,
irrespective of party.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav- 
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN- 
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[to the right of the logo]
Only 73 Hours

SALT LAKE to NEW YORK.
	By a recent change in schedule the
Overland Limited of the Union Pacific
and North-western in connection with
the L S & M. S. and N. Y. C. & H. R.
R. R., now makes the unparalleled
time record of only three days to New
York. Train leaves Salt Lake 7:00 a.
m., Ogden 8:10 a. m. daily, arrives Chi-
cago 7:45 a. m. and Grand Central
depot, New York City, 10:35 a. m.,
second and third days respectively. 
Only one change of cars and twelve
hours quickest time.
	For purchase of tickets and reser-
vation of berths, call at the “Old 
Stand,” 201 Main Street, or address
H. M. Clay, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15 1898.	NO. 14


CONTENTS:
	Press Club Entertainment. Politics—A Mug-
wump. An Incident—Ida. R. S. Report. A
Loving Tribute—Richard S. Horne. U. W. P. [-].
—Ruth M. Fox, Asst. Sec. The Life and Works
of Susan B. Anthony. General Relief Society
Conference—E. B. Wells, Sec. In Memoriam.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting.
	EDITORIAL:—A Christmas Thought. Thoughts.
Christmas Again. President Sarah M. Kimball.
Musings and Memories. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—A Lover’s Sentiment—L. L. Greene 
Richards. Old Father Time—Selected.


A LOVER’S SENTIMENT.

FOR SISTER M. I. HORNE ON HER EIGHTIETH BIRTH -
DAY, NOV. 20, 1898.

’Tis not “too much” that reverence should be
	shown,
Where such integrity as thine is known,
Love, the “fulfilling of the law” is here.
That “perfect love” which “casteth out all fear.”
The love which faith and confidence inspire,
Which knows no guile and no unjust desire.
Lovers and sweethearts in the balmy days
Of young, sweet love, repeat each other’s prai[-]e;
And so will we; there is no higher theme
Than holy love, pure as an infant’s dream
Our “Sweetheart” of today has proven true
[-]hrough eighty years; in Kirtland and Nauvoo
She with the prophet and his people fared,
And all the trials of the Saints has shared.
So speak her worthiness whoever may,
To high a tribute none of us can pay.
Sweethearts and lovers, with rich thoughts sub-
	lime,
Oft set dear names to music or to rhyme;
And so will we in joyous measures tell
Of our great love for Mary Isabelle
’Tis not “too much,” that honor should be done,
To loyalty like thine, dear honored one
			L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
PRESS CLUB ENTERTAINMENT.

	The Utah Woman’s Press Club were de-
lightfully entertained at Mrs. Arthur
Brown’s commodious residence on Friday
afternoon, Dec. 9. The literary feature of
this charming social function was the toasts
given at table, though the luncheon was a
delicious affair in itself. The hostess gave
the subject and a quotation applicable from
some well known author. Prayer by Mrs.
Doolan. Song “America” by the club,
Annie M. Bradley accompanist.
TOASTS.
	“Benjamin Franklin.” A concise and
omprehensive sketch of Franklin was given
by L. M. Rhodes.
	“Utah Woman’s Press Club, Its Origin,
Its Present, Its Future,” Emmeline B.
Wells.
	“Utah’s Pioneer Women,” Phebe C.
Young.
	“The Freedom of the Press,” Dr. R. B.
Pratt.
	“The freedom of the press is essential to
civic and religious liberty and in the out-
come of freedom of speech and thought.
	It was said by high authority that the

[Column 2]
late grand victory in our war with Spain
was due to American individualism more
than to anything else. Freedom of the
press does not mean license. It does not
mean that a knight of the quill has a right
to vent his spleen on private individuals, or
give him the right to invade the sanctity of
the home. Public people who have charge
of public affairs are proper subjects of press
praise or criticism and the press acts as
guards on the tower, to watch over the wel-
fare of the people and the nation. Kept
within its own sphere the press is the ex-
ponent of right, the champion of liberty and
the promulgator of intelligence, and its
freedom should be maintained by every in-
telligent being, society and nation.”
	“Women as Bread Winners.” Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp.
	“Since time immemorial when Ruth went
into the fields to follow the reapers and pick
up the heads of golden grain, have some
women been bread winners. Today we
find many notable instances, women who
win bread not only for themselves, but fam-
lies, etc., and various are the occupations.
In early times, before suffrage, that bright
star of civilization shed its beneficent rays
upon the world, women were obliged in
order to gain a livelihood to resort to the
most menial toil. Hood’s “Song of the
Shirt,” and Miss Alcott’s “Song of the
Tub,” give vivid pictures. But how
changed! and this change has been wrought
by noble women! Through the heroic
efforts of such workers as our own Susan B.
Anthony and others like unto her, woman
is found in the professions and in places of
trust with competent salaries. Would that
this reformation were universal.”
	“The Club Woman,” J. A. Farnsworth.
	“Sarah E. Carmichael, Utah’s Immortal
Poetess,” Lydia Alder.
	“Fanny Burney Mad. D’Arblay,” Ella
W. Hyde.
	“Women Engaged in Journalism in Utah”
Ruth M. Fox.
	“The Woman Reporter,” Annie M.
Bradley.
	“In tracing the evolution of the newspaper
we find the development of the woman re
porter has kept pace with the strides of wo-
men in every other department of life.
“Once I lived apart, now I live with all.”
Only a few years since and the “sphere” of
the woman reporter was “Woman’s World,”
“Fads and Fancies of Women,” “Essential-
ly Feminine,” “Society,” and “My Ladies
Toilet,” Long and various the report of
foolish gossip we have read. But so nar-
row a sphere could not long satisfy, those
whose energies were undaunted. She is
now a thief and a pirate of the universe
with many fashions and addresses, who
writes the adventures her eye has seen and
her ear has heard in many styles as bright
and keen as were ever penned by her worthy
brother in the profession. We find her with,
	“An energy that searches through
	From Chaos to the dawning morning,
	Into all our human plight,
	The soul’s pilgrimage of flight;

[Column 3]
	Without halting; without rest,
	Sifting Better up to Best;
	Planting seeds of knowledge pure, 
	Through earth to ripen through heaven
		endure.”
	The natural instinct of woman, which is
much keener than that possessed by man,
seems to peculiarly fit her for the work, and
the public have found the woman reporter
as
	“Inquisitive, fierce and fasting,
	Restless, predatory, hasting,
as any one could possibly be. Let us
spread her a welcome wherever she goes.”
	Reading of Sarah E. Carmichael’s poem
“The Origin of Gold,” by Mrs. Alder. 
Singing by the club “Auld Lang Syne.”


POLITICS.

	Politics! Politics!! Party! Party!! Party
politics, till one’s soul is sick of the words
and all their paltry meanings! The parti-
sans of every party plow the whole field of
history, past, present and to come, for roots
of laudation of their party. According
to them every blessing which ever did,
does now, or ever will, descend like rain on
the just and the unjust, from a famine in
India or the sinking of a hostile fleet, to six-
teen chickens at one hatch, is directly trac-
able to the wisdom, forethought and phil-
anthropy of Our Party; and all the ills of
life from a cyclone or a labor strike to old
Brindle dead in the lucern patch, or a sliver
under your thumb nail, was just as surely 
caused by the ignorance, greed and general
mismanagement of Your Party.
	When one party puts a name at its head
that bristles with as many serpents of men-
ace as the head of Medusa, and you talk of
scratching it off, what an outcry is raised
about “going against the party.”
	When two equally good and efficient men
are named on different tickets for one office,
and you choose to take into consideration
some difference—we will say in physical
strength or financial circumctances, to
favor the less fortunate, you raise another
hullabaloo about “damaging the party!”
I say “To Blazes with party” if it makes
slaves of the voters.
	In the present campaign scarcely a wo-
man’s name appears on any ticket. Since
woman’s citizenship is part of the State
Constitution, and since women are human,
they ought to participate in the privileges
as well as penalties of humanity. Canvas-
sers have been very active in calling at the
homes of the voters to inquire if they were
duly registered, and to recommend either
self of self’s party to your kind considera-
tion.
	You perhaps take the liberty to ask if
there was no woman in that or any other
party who could be trusted to fill that or
any other office. Some professed to be as
much at a loss as the questioner, and some
indulged in wild guesses.
	After carefully sifting the bushel of chaff
you find at the bottom a single grain of—
smut, which says “A woman’s name weak-


[Column 1]
ens the party ticket, because—because—the
women voters will not vote for a woman.”
	Fellow women, is this contemptible thing
true? or is it only a dingy veil used to
screen the faces of the men voters who will
not vote for a woman?
	If it is true let us begin down at a b c,
and organize little Civil Government classes
and study the Declaration of Independence,
the Constitution of the United States, and
the condition of society and of the country
at the time these documents were framed.
As we advance we might brush up on the
Salic Law the Common Law and give spec-
ial attention to such points, as Marriage
Laws, Guardianship of Minors, Inheritance,
The Widow’s Incumbrance, and many
shining spots where light is to be obtained.
As side studies we might look into some of
the procedures of the Courts of Common
Pleas and learn by eye and ear witness how
the laws materialize in practice; and if, after
completing the course in these branches of
education, we still decline to vote for wo-
men, our case is hopeless; and our masters
should pierce our ears with awls against the
doorposts, that we may remain their ser-
vants forever.
	If it is not true that we prefer in all
cases to vote for men, if the clean sweep of
women’s names from all the tickets is only
a selfish grab of our brothers at the “hon-
ors and emoluments” of public duty, we
should express our displeasure in plain, un-
equivocal terms, and see that it does not
happen another time.
	One canvasser whom I asked concerning
this matter said, “All those men offered
themselves for those places and women did
not. I think that is the way it happened.
People must ask for what they want in this
world.”
	“Is that not branding us a nation of
office seekers?” I asked. “Well, yes, that’s
about the size of it,” he replied.
	Fellow citizens, is this true? Are we a
nation of office seekers? Is there no other
and better way of distributing public trusts
than placing them in the keeping of men or
women who importune for them? Is our
political maxim “To the victor belong the
spoils?” Where then is patriotism? Dead
or only sleeping?
	Oh, that we could be patriots without be-
ing partisans, and that principles of pure
right, not time-serving policy, could be the
mainspring of our actions, private and pub-
lic! Would we could hear more about the
general weal of our whole country, and less
about the East and the West; more about
developing the grand resources, and less
about “Corners and Giant Trusts;” more
about prosperous rural communities, and
less about millionaires.
	Would that the poor might receive such
aid and favor as would lift them out of their
misery, rather than be given additional bur-
dens of taxation and the necessity of paying
“protected” prices for the necessaries of
life. Would that “protection” would pro-
tect the weak as well as the strong, the con-
sumer as well as the producer.
	If protection be the great beneficence we
are told, then give us plenty of it, that our
crying needs may be satisfied. Why should
not timber, water, coal etc., as well as land
belong to the general government as trustee
in trust for the public? They are all mat-
ters of general and urgent necessity, and
monopoly by the few against the many
should be made impossible.
	Why should not railroads, banks and all

[Column 2]
other public service, as well as postal ser-
vice, be taken in charge by general and
municipal government, for the benefit of
the public? Such protection would pro-
tect alike the great and the small.
	Until some such desirable ends have been
accomplished let no man boast overmuch of
his party; and as for one small unit of the
body politic, Yours Truly will belong to
no party. Thus I close the door against
the temptation to become an office seeker;
and if I honor and choose to vote for Frank
J. Cannon because he had the courage to
draw back from that protection which pro
tects “only the favored few,” no party
lash can be laid on me for doing so. If I
choose to scratch the name of some candi-
date whose private character is immoral, no
one can say me nay. If I choose to vote
for a woman, I reserve the right to do so.
	Rather than be a party hack, I will be
written down to the end of the chapter,
					A MUGWUMP.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
AN INCIDENT.

	Mrs. S: “Will you perform an errand
for me?”
	Mrs. H: “With pleasure, anything that
lies in my power.”
	Mrs. S: “Well then, I wish you
while in the city to call on Mrs. Wells and
ask her to please discontinue the “Ex-
ponent” to me.”
	I looked at the invalid (for she had been
one for many months) in surprise, as I
knew her to be an earnest worker in the
woman’s cause, and a staunch advocate of
the “Exponent.”
	“I see you are surprised,” she said, “it
is true I will greatly miss the little wo-
man’s friend, but I cannot meet the pay-
ment since my illness and I don’t wish to
add to the great burden the editor already
carries. I fully realize she has much to
contend with.”
	As I gazed upon her pale and much
wasted face I thought with regret how
careless on this little matter many of us
were that are well and able to do. As I
reflected an incident that came under my
notice a few years back came to my mind.
	After having left the “Exponent” office I
met a lady who asked to be directed there,
and then asked if she would be able to find
Mrs. Wells in as she was anxious to get a
copy of the paper, for she dearly loved to
read it.
	In much surprise I ventured to ask her
why she did not become a regular subscrib-
er, for it was easy to be seen she was a lady
of means.
	“I was a subscriber at one time,” she re-
plied, “but now the children are growing
up it seems they must have other reading.
Such as the “Exponent” and the Juvenile
are too dry for them, they must take
the New York Ledger.” She then men-
tioned other periodicals equally as trashy,
ending by saying with a heavy sigh‘ “You
see my expenses are very heavy.”
	I replied I thought they were, but in my
own mind I communed thus: “Horrors!
can it be possible that there are many moth-
ers in Israel in this dire condition?” Since
then, I regret to say, I have found many
just such cases.
	Years may come and go, I don’t think I
shall ever completely efface from my mem-
ory the vision of the sad faced mother as
she stood talking to me that day. And it

[Column 2]
is not always we mothers that make these
grievous mistakes.
	Another incident is recalled in which a
father figures and a teacher (without the
least disrespect to the office of a teacher.)
One evening while sitting reading an inter-
esting article in the Juvenile, the gentleman
in question called for my husband to assist
him in his rounds as a teacher. While
waiting for him to make ready he spoke of
the Juvenile, as he noticed I had been read-
ing in it.
	“Yes,” he said, “it is a nice little maga-
zine, but I am not taking it now, can’t af-
ford it. My children are reading a nice
continued story in an Eastern paper we are
taking. They can hardly wait for the time
for it to come.”
	Oh! let us as mothers in Israel choose
good reading for our children, that we may
do nothing that will in any way tarnish
their characters; and remember the beauti-
ful poem which says,
“Build well the temple ye mothers of men;
For know ye are builders for glory or shame,
Know ye are building for weakness or might,
Know ye are building for darkness or light.”
IDA.


R. S. REPORT.
		PUEBLO, COLORADO.
Editor Exponent:
	Thinking you would like to hear how we
are progressing here in Pueblo, I thought I
would send you a few lines. Since we
were organized in July by Apostle John W.
Taylor and Sister Susa Young Gates we
have had splendid meetings. Our meet-
ings are held every first Thursday in the
month and the number has never fallen be-
low the first meeting, but we are constant-
ly adding one or two to our number. The
sisters have been liberal with their dona-
tions and the teachers say it is a pleasure to
visit among them. We gave the Sunday
School, numbering fifty, a Twenty Fourth
of July celebration and sent to Utah for all
the books we needed, and still we have a
nice sum in the treasury.
	I am sorry to say that our beloved presi-
dent, Elizabeth Hart, has been very sick,
and for some four weeks we did not know
whether she would ever come to another
meeting or not. Her husband did not
leave her night or day for nearly five weeks,
thinking that she might die at any time;
but she is now recovering, which we are all
thankful for.
	We had a very nice visit from Sister
Susa Young Gates in July, and she gave
us some good counsel. We have just start-
ed to make quilts. With this letter the
president is sending for the "Exponent."
		Your sister in the Gospel,
	ELLA BRANCH, Sec.


At the state convention of the Daughters
of the American Revolution at Norfolk, Va.,
Mrs. Herbert Doyle Brackett of Alex-
andria, reported that $41,000 of the amount
required for the building which the Daugh-
ters propose to erect in Washington was
now in hand. It was decided that further
contribution to the building fund would be
asked at each chapter. The building is to
be the national headquarters for the society,
and will be known as Continental Hall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OLD FATHER TIME.

Old Time is a good o[-]d man,
	What though his step be not gay,
He trud[-]es along as well as [-]e can,
He trudges along still with equal span,
		With his scythe in his hand,
		And his time-piece of sand,
	And his single lock glossy and gray.

Full many joys he bears,
	Full many griefs he brings,
Yet thinketh he naught of the load of cares,
Contained in his wallet, nor wots who shares,
		But indifferent smiles
		On the world and its wiles,
	On the beggar’s lot or the fate of kings.

The years in their flight he measures,
	As round his dial they climb;
But we, alas ! scarce value his treasures,
We’re thinking now of the seasons pleasures
		When cares we lay by,
		When we banish each sigh
	For the song and dance of Christmas time.

Hail, then, December, th ugh old and hoary!
	Fresh fagots pile on the bright fire,
And listen awhile to the comical story,
[-]he year’s departu[-]e let us crown with glory,
		By the embers bright glow,
		We’ll defy frost and snow,
	While the whistling wind joins in the choir.
SELECTED.


[Column 1]
	A LOVING TRIBUTE.

TO MY MOTHER ON REACHING HER 
EIGHTIETH YEAR NOV. 1898.

Dear Mother

	Through the blessings of a kind, loving
Father, whose children we are, you have
been permitted to remain in mortality to
the ripe age of four score years. Eighty
years of probation in this world of care,
sorrow and trouble have proven your integ-
rity and womanhood to be equal to all
emergencies.
	Born in a foreign land, fostered under an
alien government, but brought under the
royal emblems of liberty and peace in early
womanhood, you have proven your fidelity
to your country and its constitutions under
the most trying ordeals of life. True to
your convictions of right you have not
swerved from the truth as it came to your
heart through the light of the Gospel of the
Lord Jesus Christ.
	Drivings, mobbings, the trials and suffer-
ings incident to exile and pioneer life have
failed to weaken your trust in a divine
work, but have caused you to remain firm
to the last.
	We hail you as our mother, and sincere-
ly hope that the remaining years of your
stay with us will be your happiest, best
ones on earth.
	As one to whom you have given birth in
the flesh. I must respectfully bow in hom-
age to my mother, and tender a son’s filial
love and gratitude. To you and your kind,
motherly affection and interest in me in my
young days I owe much of the little good
that is within me.
	Ever solicitous for the welfare of those
whom God has intrusted to you, and wish-
ing all your children to follow paths of
honor and righteousness, you have careful-
ly guarded us against the wiles and snares
of the ungodly.
	Admonished and advised by you when
the tempter’s wiles and fascinations were
wrapped about me, I was saved from fol- 

[Column 2]
lies and sins so common to youth, and to
which I might have yielded. By your kind
hints and counsels I was taught that respect
which is due to seniors and superiors.
	Respect for the afflicted, decrepit and in-
firm and sorrow-stricken was awakened
early in my mind by your worthy example,
as well as your wise instructions.
	If aught in my life has caused you regret
or suffering, I trust you will extend pardon
therefore; that you will ever remain solici-
tous for my welfare, and still advise, coun-
sel and admonish, as your mother-love and
wisdom may dictate.
	May the choicest blessings of our Heaven-
ly Father be liberally showered upon you;
may His Holy Spirit be your constant com-
panion;may your earthly joys daily increase;
may your happiness be greatly multiplied
in the love and loyal homage of your chil-
dren, grandchildren and great grandchil-
dren;may your favor with the Lord and His
Holy Priesthood and Saints prove an anchor
of hope to your soul in all your remaining
days on the earth; may a happy reunion be-
yond the vail with loved ones gone before,
and chosen ones of our Father’s household
be your reward when you have done with
this mortal life, is the earnest desire of
Your loving son,
	RICHARD S. HORNE.


U. W. P. C.
	The regular meeting of the U. W. P. C.
was held in the “Exponent” office Nov. 30,
1898, the new president, Ella W. Hyde, in
the chair. Mrs. E. B. Wells offered prayer.
Roll call was ahswered by miscellaneous
sentiments. Minutes of annual meeting
read and approved.
	The new president then made a happy
little speech, thanking the ladies for the
honor conferred and expressing a desire for
the future advancement of the club. Under
unfinished business the matter of incorpor-
ating came up and was again laid over.
Under head of new business a note was
read from the secretary of the General
Federation asking members to subscribe for
the Biennial report of the General Federa-
tion for 1898. Ruth M. Fox was nomina-
ted by E. B. Wells and seconded by Lucy
A. Clark for director to the State Federa-
tion; carried.
	Miss Julia Farnsworth then gave a very
interesting and instructive paper on the
Phillipines, followed by discussion. A con-
cise and pithy paper on Current Events was
given by Mrs. L. M. Rhodes. A pretty
original poem entitled “Life” by Phebe C.
Young finished the program.
	Mrs. I. Cameron Brown kindly invited
every member of the club to meet at her
home, 201, E. South Temple St., at 2
o’clock on December 9.
	The program for next meeting was read,
and after benediction by Dr. E. R. Shipp
the club adjourned to meet at the rooms of
Dr. E. R. Shipp, Constitution Building,
for the December meeting.
	RUTH M. FOX, Asst. Sec.


THE LIFE AND WORK OF SUSAN B.
			ANTHONY.

		BY IDA HUSTED HARPER.

	The life and work of Susan B. Anthony
is far more than the recital of one woman’s
experience, even though that woman be the
most interesting personality of the  century.


It is a history of the great evolution of the
status of woman, in which Miss Anthony
has been the central figure. It pictures the
struggle to obtain the right for woman to
speak in public; first in behalf of the slave,
then in the interest of temperance, and at
last for her own freedom,for laws to secure to
herself the control of her own property, her
wages, her person and her children. Then
follows the long continued battle for equal
educational advantages and equal industrial
opportunities, and last and longest of all for
the citizen’s right to the franchise.
	The work consists of two large volumes,
copiously illustrated with over fifty portraits
of Miss Anthony and her colaborers, en-
gravings of her different homes, old Quaker
meeting house, and a large number of let-
ters and autographs of distinguished men
and women. The facts and dates of each
chapter have received Miss Anthony’s per-
sonal approval; and this is the only authen-
tic biography of her that ever can be written,
as the letters and documents will not be ac-
cessible to other historians. This work fol-
lows consecutively the history of one of the
greatest woman reformers. The early
chapters describe her ancestry, home, child-
hood and life in a Quaker boarding school,
the last told in her own quaint letters and
diaries. Later chapters depict her experi-
ence as a teacher related in her own charact-
eristic letters, the moving to Rochester by
canal in 1845; evolution from schoolroom
into pupil life,then follow:—Early Laws for
Women; History of the Bloomer Costume;
Canvass of the State of NewYork in Sleigh;
Anti-Slavery Work with Letters from Gar-
rison, Greeley, May, Gerritt, Smith, etc.;
Campaigning with the Garrisonians; The
Mobs; Letters from Phillips, Curtis, Pills-
bury, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stan-
ton, the Fosters and Others; The Marriage
and Divorce Question; The War and the
Woman’s Loyal League;Reconstruction and
Fight over Fourteenth Amendment; Kan-
sas and George Francis Train; Publishing
the Revolution; Fiftieth Birthday Celebra-
tion and Poem by Phoebe Cary; The Mc-
Farland Richardson Case; Victoria Wood-
hull;Arrest and Trial for Voting Under the
Fourteenth Amendment; Beecher-Tilton
Trial; The Woman’s Fourth of July in 1876;
Ten Years on the Lyceum Platform; A
Year in Europe; Appealing to Congress
for Thirty-Three Years; Suffrage Amend-
ment Campaign in Eight States; Practical
vs. Theoretical Religion; Pronounced Opin-
ons on Vital Questions: Thirty Years' Ex-
perience with Political Conv ntions and
Pa ties; Gathering of the Anthony Clans in
1897; Final Triumphs, Honors, Tributes,
etc.


We should always keep a corner of our
minds open and free, that we may make
room for the opinions of our friends. Let
us have heart and mind hospitality.

	Miss Olive Schreiner positively refuses to
see an interviewer. To a young reporter
who approached her on her African farm
she said:
	I heartily condemn the modern interview.
A person is ensnared into a light and
superficial colloquy upon a subject which
demands deep thought and mature reflec-
tion. If a man or a woman has a message
to issue it cannot be uttered forcefully in
one of these "interviews." ‘‘Interviews’’
are abominations which accentuate the per-
 onality at the expense of the principle.


WOMANS' EXPONENT.

			WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	 -	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributer,

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.

	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to

		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at Pthe ost Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter. 

	SALT LAKE CITY DECEMBER 15, 1898.


A CHRISTMAS THOUGHT.
   
	The agents of the “Exponent” in all the
several wards and Stakes of Zion, and also
individual subscribers indebted for the
paper are urgently requested to settle all old
accounts at the earliest date possible. This
becomes an absolute necessity on account
of the change that takes place in the man-
agement of the Deseret Evening News.
The “Exponent” will not be sent to any
subscriber after January 1899 unless pre-
paid. All delinquents will as soon as pos-
sible receive written notices of bills due in
addition to the printed matter.

	In consideration of the value of the“Ex-
ponent” to the Relief Society, and because
of the work it has done in the cause of suf-
frage as well as the general educational
help it has given the women of this inter-
mountain country,it seems scarcely possible
that women should be so careless of their
own interest as to let the paper languish for
want of support, yet the fact remains, and
it is impossible to say what the women will
do in the matter.
	With the Relief Society of 30,000 women
if one tenth of the number would take the
paper and pay cash down it could be carried
safely, yet that has been looked for, hoped
for, and waited for in vain What the “Ex-
ponent” has done to keep the society in
various Stakes and in different parts of the
world in touch with each other is of more
value than the few hundred dollars it would
take to maintain it independently. Appeal
after appeal has been made through the
columns of the paper and by those who are
its faithful supporters in public and in
private, and yet the failure to come forward
with financial aid. At one dollar per year
it seems incredible that sisters who have the
cause of Zion at heart and who know as
many hundreds do know, the generous
help the “Exponent” has given in ways al-
most innumerable, should not immediately
raise the necessary funds, through large
numbers of subscription. Beside the great
need the Relief Society has for an organ, of
its own the silk industry needs it quite as
much and both should have its support
through the liberal patronage of the women
of Zion.


There are two things in which we should
thoroughly train onrselves—to be slow in
aking offence, and to be slowed in giving it.


THOUGHTS. 

	Having been asked “Does the Woman’s
ballot purify politics?” in responding my
inclination would be to say “Yes, conditions
being fair,” but the experience I have had
proves it will take years to accomplish what
the best women desire. However, the de-
cidedly moral and spiritual element with
which woman is naturally endowed must
produce a salutary effect in the realm of
politics.
	If we go back to history we find no na-
tion was ever wrecked so long as women
wielded a powerful influence. Woman is
to be redeemed from the curse, and that is
the true interpretation of the phrase “The
nineteenth century is woman’s era”—the
work has begun and is fast going forward.
One of the most potent forces in this revo-
lution of things is the ballot. Women have
not usurped this honor—behind them is
the sentiment and the accumulation of
force, if we may be permitted the use of the
term, that the age has brought with it
which comes from a source unknown to any
except the wise, who see as poets and proph-
ets do, things that are not perceptible to the
natural eye, and hear voices that are not
heard by the multitude. The plan of re-
demption is as real and as true as was the
creation.
	Woman is one of the strongest forces in
the spiritual world of thought and of action.
Who does not know that when awakened
by trials accidents of fortune or misfortune
woman turns to God, and seeks strength
from the heavenly fountain of inspiration
through prayer and devotion, and necessa
rily by the sincerity of her purpose in all she
undertakes for the betterment of humanity
her very purity of motive and exalted views
bring about an uplifting wherever her in-
fluence spreads. It is the soul-type in wo-
man, that sacrifice of self, that obedience to
the Savior’s golden rule, “Do to others as
ye would they should do to you,” that is
ever helpful. It is that element which made
her last at the cross and first at the sepul-
chre.
	When the franchise has been extended
over more space, and embraces more people
and peoples, or more nations, then we may
be able to see what a powerful factor for the
amelioration and purification of society it
will become; and, therefore, in conclusion
let me exhort every woman in the states
that have equal suffrage, not to grow indif-
ferent to the power she has in her own pos-
session, the ballot; and because two years
or more have not worked a miracle toss
aside the weapon of defense and of author-
ity given her; but with an effort worthy the
most profound patriotism use her utmost
endeavors to induce Congress through its
legislation to carry the sixteenth amend-
ment, which has been so long pending be-
fore that Honorable Body.
	There is no other vitalizing force that can
permeate every home and appeal to every
individual citizen as the ballot can, there-
fore it must be the mightiest lever to uplift
and to regenerate the world.


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS AGAIN.

	Here comes Christmas again with all its
delightful accompaniments and memories.
No day in all the year for the children like
Christmas with its wonders and its legends,
fairy tales and above all Santa Claus, for 
whom they long and wait, and even pray,

[Column 2]
so enthusiastic are they about his coming.
Dear old Santa Claus! What gladness he
brings to many thousands of homes, and
alas for those bereft of children or where
none ever came to bless and kindle new
life in human hearts. But the children,
Santa Claus belongs especially to them,
they watch for him carefully, continuously,
getting up at unseasonable hours to try and
surprise him and to see which way he
comes; whether over the roof with his rein-
deers and sled and down the chimney, or
through the window, or stealing in softly
when the door is open and hiding until all
are asleep in the house to make his raid as
the Brownies do. What fantastic visions
the little folks conjure up of the visits of
Santa Claus. Christmas is the day of all
days for the little folks, no other day in the
year is so attractive, not even the 4th of
July with its flags, banners, music, parades
and booming of cannon; nor yet the child’s
own birthday when he is “cock of the
walk,” so to speak. Is it because of the
delusion of Santa Claus that fires the child’s
imagination? partly so it must be. And
those of older growth, they, too, are fasci-
nated with delusions and fancies. And it
this only happened one day in the year one
might be more excusable.
	This is the day of love in every house-
hold, of peace on earth and good will to all
mankind, and every one who feels the im-
portance of the sweet charity the Savior
taught and practised should himself exer-
cise that sweet spirit of sublime and heaven-
ly grace which reflects as much upon the
giver as the receiver. The scripture says
“It is more blessed to give than to receive,”
and it is a divine truth,as many can testify.
	To know how to give acceptably is an
art in itself and one which many people do
not understand; to give ostentatiously is al-
ways an offense, even though the giver
may have the best of motives. It is true
that Christmas opens a wide door for gifts
to loved ones as well as for charity, but
nevertheless, careless giving especially of
charity, sometimes makes the recipient feel
he would rather starve. We are all, or al-
most all, too neglectful of the little courte-
sies and proprieties of life; we excuse our-
selves because there is so much to be done,
and we say this is an age of hurry and bus-
tle. But when one looks around and finds
those who do things of this sort beautifully,
in such a way that there is no possible
chance of criticism, then we wonder what is
the reason that others could not do as well.
A gift is not so much in itself as in the
manner of giving.
	Children should be taught to give in the
spirit of love and sweetness, and then there
would be greater pleasure and more satis-
faction in small things. As a people we
have grown so selfish ourselves with the
prosperity the Lord has blessed us with,
that we feel unless we can give largely we
must not give at all. Yet when we look
back and recall the early days in this valley
and the few little comforts we had for the
children at Christmas time and compare it
with the present, its loads of toys and beau-
tiful as well as useful things it seems in-
credible. And are we happier or better, or
are the children any more satisfied ? We
think not. The molasses candy, ginger
bread and dough-nuts Santa Claus brought
then were as acceptable as the best sweet-
meats and Hiler’s candy and wax dolls that
can open and shut their eyes instead of the
rag babies made by their own mamma’s


deft fingers, into which she put so many
loving stitches.
	Yes we have a different Christmas now,
and this year we have much to be thankful
for and to rejoice over. Many little ones
whose father went to battle have him home
with them for the jolly Christmas. And
some whose homes are not so blest, yet
know the war is over and look forward to
the home coming with joyful anticipation.
	There has been a bountiful harvest, the
Lord has blest His people wonderfully and
the children should be made to realize this,
and to comprehend how the Lord has pro-
vided for the needs of His people and given
them an abundance and to spare, so that
on this Christmas day in all the valleys of
this Western land, there should be no
scarcity in any home and certainly not
where there are those, blessed messengers of
relief, Bishops and sisters of the Relief
Society. The dear, old people who are so
much alone in the world, more even than
the children should be richly remembered
at Christmas. They are as fond of dainties
as the children, though they cannot keep
up the delusion of Santa Claus, and if the
children were taught to divide with the
aged people of their own locality, those who
have no grandchildren of their own to come
and bring them delicacies, it would be a
greater blessing to the children than to
those to whom they minister in innocence
and love. So let us learn the Christ lesson.
If we only give to those who can give to us
in return, we are not the true followers of
the lowly Nazarene whose birth we cele-
brate, (even though we have long since
learned that it was not the day of his birth.)
Christmas has so long been kept on this
particular day that a change all over the
world could scarcely be effected.
	This year, 1898, Christmas comes on the
Sabbath day and therefore festivities will
be observed upon Saturday or Monday, or
both as the case may be, but the children
will probably receive fruitful lessons at the
Christmas Sunday School.
	Already the city has put on its holiday
appearance, and never was there more dis-
play. Stores, shops and business houses of
all kinds are in gala dress, and the brighter,
gayer colors that have been the rage the
last year or more add to the brilliancy of
the decorations. In the midst of all this
display perhaps there is as much delusion
as attaches to Santa Claus. The home and
the fireside is always connected with Christ-
mas so closely that one invariably thinks of
the yule log, or the huge pine knots and
the joys of social or even jovial family inter-
course. “The holly round the Christmas
hearth” has become proverbial, and

	‘‘At Christmas time the open hand,
	Scatters bounty o’er sea and land.”

	It is good that we have the holidays,
what would life be without these seasons of
renewal? It makes us almost young again
to participate in such rejoicings.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT SARAH M. KIMBALL. 
	Sister Kimball whose departure from this
life took place on Thursday evening, Dec.
1, 1898, at ten minutes to six, was a prom-
inent woman in the history of the Church.
She was connected with it as a member
when a very young girl and figured in its
history to the time of her death. She was
born in Phelps, Ontario Co., New York
State, Dec. 29, 1818, but her parents moved

[Column 2]
to Kirtland, Ohio, soon after the Church
was established there, and were associated
with the Prophet Joseph intimately. Sarah
M., whose maiden name was Granger, at-
tended the Hebrew school in Kirtland, with
Joseph Smith and others who were among
the foremost leaders of the Church in early
days. As a young girl she had excellent
opportunities for advancement and cultiva-
tion, and the knowledge acquired was a
good foundation for her subsequent career
as a teacher and as a leader among women.
Her father and mother were Oliver and
Lydia Dibble Granger and well known in
Church history. ( Of their family only three
grew to man and womanhood. Fayette
Granger, the eldest, was well known in
Utah in the early days as a sort of pioneer,
and spent most of his time on the frontiers.
Farley went to California and settled and is
still residing there.)
	Oliver Granger, the father, is mentioned
in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants,
section 117, in a revelation given to the
Prophet Joseph in Far West, Missouri,
July 8, 1838, (Brother Granger was still in
Kirtland,) and there were many precious
promises made to him at that time. Not
only to Brother Granger but to Sarah were
promises made by the Prophet that were
very sacred and very comforting to her
throughout her life.
	After the Saints gathered to Nauvoo
Miss Granger became acquainted with
Hiram Kimball, who was a resident and
land owner of the town of Commerce, as it
was then called. They were married in
Kirtland, Ohio, but came to dwell in Nau-
voo where they had a lovely home, and
Mr. Kimball figured conspicuously in busi-
ness and was very prosperous.
	Sister Kimball was ambitious in good
works and especially anxious to contribute
towards the Temple which was to be erect-
ed in that city, and her zeal in this respect
was one of the factors in bringing about the
organization of the Relief Society, which
has since become such a large and flourish-
ing institution. She was present at its or-
ganization in the Masonic Hall in Nauvoo
on the 17th day of March, 1842, and in fact
the preliminary meeting was held in Sister
Kimball's own house. There are few wo-
men living who were members of the first
organization and only one, Bathsheba W.
Smith, known to the writer, who was pres-
ent when the organization was effected.
Zina D. H. Young and M. Isabella Horne
were afterwards members, and are the only
ones we can recall that are now living.
	Sister Kimball came with her husband
and family to the valley in 1850 and settled
in this city, where her residence has been
ever since. When the Relief Society was
organized in Utah Sister Kimball was chos-
en to preside in her own ward, the Fifteenth,
this was on the 9th of February, 1857, and
she has been from that time one of the most
able presidents and indefatigable workers in
the cause throughout all Zion. Perhaps
there was no more judicious economizer of
means, yet withal liberal in bestowing to
the needy and unfortunate, than she has
been. Her own ward can testify to her
good works, her unbounded charity and
motherly care of the sick and afflicted, bet-
ter than we who knew her in a wider sense.
Everywhere her works testify of her, and
the younger generation should not pass by
such notable examples as her life affords.
Her name and life should be perpetuated in
the memory of every young man and wo-
man in Zion.

[Column 3]
	Notwithstanding the many public duties
Sister Kimball performed and the positions
she filled her home was never neglected;
she was a model housekeeper and knew the
art of making home attractive; yet there
was no stronger-minded woman in all
Israel than Sister Kimball. She has main-
tained the principle of equality of the sexes
and contended for it with all the advantages
pertaining thereto. She did not believe in
half measures. She stood solidly for the
lar[-]est freedom of opinion and of the press,
without waiting to see what other people
thought. As a public speaker she was con-
cise and to the point, never made long
speeches, but said what she felt forcibly
and always with effect. It was invariably
something to remember. She was specially
gifted in conversation, was well read, had
traveled much and met many celebrated
people; was at one time quite familiar in
Washington society.
	Sister Kimball taught school in this city
for several years, and under very trying 
circumstances, and while thus engaged in
teaching she became even more than ever
convinced of the need of changed conditions
for women engaged in work that came in
competition with men, and determined to
push the matter to the utmost. And she
knew there was no other method that could
be so effectual as the elective franchise.
	She was an ardent admirer and champion
of Susan B. Anthony and since her active
work as president of the Utah Suffrage
Association, her name has been on the Roll
of Honor of the National American Suffrage
Association as Honorary vice-president. 
Sister Kimball was a member of the Utah
Constitutional Convention of 1882, and was 
for some years a member of the Territorial
Committee of the People’s Party. It is im- 
possible to enumerate all this remarkable
woman has done, but suffice it to say she
has been one of the foremost in all pro-
gressive work of elevating, uplifting and
advancing society and humanity.
	After the Relief Society had been organ-
ized throughout Zion in Stakes and branches
a central organization was effected and Sarah
M. Kimball was chosen by Sister Eliza R.
Snow, the president, as secretary, June 19,
1880. October 10, 1892, the society was
incorporated and she was elected one of the
vice presidents, which position she occupied
at the time of her death. Her loss will be
deeply felt by all her co-workers, she was
wise in counsel, and her words were al-
ways fraught with meaning; her judgment
on all subjects was excellent, and she never
failed to give a word in due season and to
sound the rising note.
	We shall miss her in all our assemblies,
her presence was always inspiring if she 
was not able to say but a few words. At
our last General Conference of the Relief
Society in the Assembly Hall, October 5, 
she was not present being afraid of the ex-
posure, but she had been with us in the
meeting of the Board of Directors in the
“Exponent” office the day previous and
spoke impressively upon the subjects under
consideration. She also attended the officers'
meeting in the lecture hall of the Latter-
day Saints Business College on Saturday,
October 8, and spoke twice, a most unusual
thing for her. But we shall hear her voice
no more among us, she has passed on to
a higher life for which she was eminently
fitted, to join the innumerable company of
Saints who had preceded her, her husband,
father, mother and many relatives, whom


she officiated for in the Temples of Zion.
	Sister Kimball left three sons and one
daughter, her sons all have families but
they were just as tenderly attached to their
mother. There are quite a number of grand-
children.
	The relatives and friends of Sister Kim-
ball gathered about nine on Sunday morn-
ing at her residence to take a last look, as
she lay peacefully sleeping in her beautiful
white robes within the white casket and a
holy calm upon her face as if in vision.
When the farewells were over the casket
covered with loving mementoes of floral
offerings was borne to the chapel, followed
by the family and friends and the Relief
Society of which she was the honored and
beloved president. The Fifteenth ward
hall where the funeral services were con-
ducted was exquisitely draped in white and
flowers, and potted plants were artistically
arranged, (her express wish was that there
should be no black.) Bishop John Morgan
presided at the funeral services, the musical
exercises were by the ward choir, which in-
cludes Sister Maggie Hull, one of the
sweetest singers in all Israel.
	The speakers were first Sister Zina D.
H. Young, who had known Sister Kimball
since the days of Kirtland; she was much
affected while speaking, but paid an elo-
quent tribute of love and tenderness to her
departed friend and companion.
	Bishop R. T. Burton spoke of her many
virtues and of her magnificent capabilities,
her motherly attention to all who needed
assistance, whether of the household of faith
or not, and of the great blessing she had
been to all in the ward.
	Apostle H. J. Grant and President An-
gus M. Cannon each spoke in glowing
terms of praise of her lifelong labors. Presi-
dent M. Isabella Horne made the closing
speech, which was a loving tribute to her
memory and eulogistic of her long life
and work among the Saints. Apostle John
Henry Smith offered the benediction.
	A long train of carriages followed the re-
mains to the cemetery, where the body was
deposited beside her mother. Sister Lydia
D. Granger, her husband, Elder Hiram
Kimball, having been buried at sea on his
way as a missionary to the Sandwich Is-
lands, more than thirty years ago. Coun-
selor Rodney Badger dedicated the grave,
and the last sad rites were over when the
coffin was covered with the fresh earth and
also profusely with beautiful flowers.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"MUSINGS AND MEMORIES."

	“Musings and Memories” is a volume of
poems entirely of home production, and is
very suitable as a gift for the holidays. The
book is sufficiently elegant in appearance for
any drawing room or library table. It con-
tains three hundred pages and a steel en-
graving of the author. It is for sale at the
office of the “Woman’s Exponent ” Tem-
pleton Builiding, opposite Deseret News
office. Cloth binding, $1.25; dainty cover,
$1.50; morocco, $2.00. Those living out-
side Salt Lake City who might wish to pur-
chase the book should address,
		Mrs. E. B. Wells,
	Templeton Building,
		Salt Lake City, Utah.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The "Exponent" acknowledges the gift of
a picture group of beautiful women, the


General Board of the Primary Associations
of Zion. Not only were we delighted with
the gift in itself, but knowing each one
personally and the individual grace of soul
that shines out from the eyes, it is doubly
dear, and as we gaze and admire we recall
the many lovely traits in each one’s char-
acter, and incidents in each one’s life that
are admirable. The likeness, too, is very
good and the picture altogether does credit
to the association. They are certainly faces
that denote intelligence and intense spiritual
power. Every Stake board in Zion who
can afford one should purchase one of them
to hang where the children can become ac-
quainted and familiar with the founders of
the Primary work.
	Among the handsome displays for Christ-
mas the new book store of George Q. Can-
non Sons and Company has certainly one of
the very finest, and perhaps equal in quality
of goods in their line to any establishment
in the city, if it does not excel. The goods
are all in style and the prices are on an
average with the quality. In fact they do
keep an excellent line of stationery and
materials in that line. This year they have
fancy china ware, rare vases and such orna-
ments as are suitable for Xmas gifts and a
fine assortment of pictures, principally
medallion, subjects new in style. The “Ex-
ponent’’ can safely recommend their goods
and also the attention one receives in being
served. The new store itself is very
attractive and fitted up in excellent taste,
and everything seems in keeping within
and without.


[Column 1]
		GENERAL CONFERENCE.

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY.

	Afternoon session, President Zina D. H.
Young presiding, Prof. C. J. Thomas lead-
ing the singing by the Temple choir.
Meeting opened with “Now let us rejoice.”
Prayer by Elder C. J. Thomas. Singing
“Oh Golden Day,” very beautifully rend-
ered by Maggie C. Hull and members of
the Temple choir.
	President Artemissia Lugmidler reported
Kanab Stake, referred to the lack of mem-
bers attending meetings and said that in
listening to other reports she found it to be
a general complaint. In regard to laying
up wheat said theirs was not a grain pro-
ducing locality, but she had urged the sis-
ters inasmuch as there was an appearance
of a bountiful harvest this year to lay up
what wheat they could; felt although they
were a small Stake they were diligent and
proving themselves faithful over a few
things.
	President Ann C. Woodbury of the St.
George Stake, told the long distance they
had to travel by team to visit the branches
of the society in their Stake, some places
were four hundred miles away and it
was quite an arduous undertaking to go all
the way around. “We are just getting a
good start in the silk industry. We were
to have had timber for a mill and the boys
were going to start off with their teams to
haul it when we received word the mill
was burned. Still we have every prospect
of success this year, all have plenty to do.
Our children have not applied themselves
to industrial pursuits in the past as they
should, we must insist upon industrious
habits in our children and the silk industry
is one pursuit that will be helpful in this
respect, and there is a good prospect of suc-
cess.”

[Column 2]
	Counselor C. C. Bartlett reported Uintah
Stake, they have a good wheat country,
five branches of the society have each a
good granary and the wheat stored is of a
good quality and in good condition. They
hold conferences twice a year, they try to
impress upon their children that they must
make themselves useful in life. “It is three
years since we were visited in our Stake,
although last year we had Sister Gates, who
came in the interest of the Y. L. M. I. A.
	President Annie R. Duke of Wasatch
Stake said she had only been elected a short
time, their former president, Sister Emma
Brown, having passed away she had been
called to the position of president and hoped
to fill the place with credit, but felt she
knew very little as yet, but would try to do
all in her power. She had visited around
the Stake since her appointment.
	Cassia Stake was reported by Sister Rol-
lins; the president was a very capable wo-
man. In traveling around they had to go
over a mountain to get to the other side
where one part of the sisters lived. Their
president had never yet missed attending
one conference since they were organized.
They were trying to do their part well.
	President Emma J. Bennett said, “We
make our visit among the sisters a pleasure
trip. We have twenty branches, we travel
with the authorities of the Stake and we al-
ways have a good time, our sisters are dili-
gent and united as well as energetic. We
want to do our share and assist the General
Society, we have been talking of a Stake
granary.”
	Star Valley was reported by Sister Sarah
Ann Burton. “We have a good band of
sisters, we do not have the best of grain,
but we have a mill now, which is a great
blessing to the people. We are just begin-
ning in our Stake to save grain, we have
many early frosts but we intend to perse-
vere and do our part in whatever is under-
taken by the General Society. We are
blest in having an abundance of strawber-
ries and small fruits. We have nine wards,
it takes three days to visit those fartherest
off.
	Sister Maggie Hull sang “Glory to God
on High,” the Temple choir joining.
	President Julia P. Lindsay of Bear Lake
Stake made an excellent report of the work
done in the society in that locality, and the
good spirit prevailing in their midst. She
felt the importance of the organization and
the great blessing it had been to the wo-
men of Zion, earnestly urged the sisters to
train their sons and daughters in the ways
of the Lord and exhorted all to good works.
	President Elizabeth Fox of Oneida Stake
was very much pleased with the instruction
given by the leading sisters, spoke par-
ticularly of their efforts in storing grain, in
Franklin they had over a thousand bushels
and a small granary but had concluded it
was best to put their wheat into the grist
mill and the mill pays them interest on the
grain. Sister Fox spoke of the change
made in their Stake so that it had not so
many branches, some wards having been
taken into the new Stake recently organized.
She also urged the sisters to take the “Ex-
ponent’’ and to read it, expressed her own
appreciation of its helpfulness; thought it
wrong not to support our own paper.
	President Mary Pitchforth of Juab Stake
referred to the good singing and realized
how much it added to the spirit of the
meeting. In their Stake they always had
good singing and interspersed it between
the speeches at their conferences. Referred


with sympathetic feeling to the death of
President Paxman, he had truly been a
father as well as a leader to them all in
Juab Stake. Sister Pitchforth spoke in a
very interesting manner of the good work
of the society, felt proud of their labors, re-
joiced in the Gospel and felt to press on- 
ward.
	Sister Maria Crosby spoke for Sevier
Stake, thought all were trying to do what
they knew to be right and ministering to
the needy. They had a good, energetic,
capable president.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of
the mission given her by President Young
to establish silk culture, and entreated the
sisters to put out mulberry trees and raise
cocoons. She thought we were too indiffer-
ent about these things and did not half con-
sider what the Lord had placed on the
daughters of Zion. Realized the brethren
carried heavy loads and so did the sisters.
Sister Zina remembered how Brother Joseph
looked when he plead with the sisters to be
faithful to the society and not commit the
sin of ingratitude, thought his words were
sweeter than honey in the honey comb.
“Do teach the daughters of Zion to do what
is right, to have confidence in their fathers,
and teach them how to get strength in the
hour of trial, and to draw near to the Lord,
it is their only safety.”
	Brother Huff of St. George, read an arti
cle on silk which he had prepared for publi-
cation, after which President Young spoke
upon silk again, her great desire to see it
established and for young women to take
hold of it, and closed her remarks by say-
ing she was thoroughly committed to the
silk industry.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke of the
young women, how glad she was to see
some in the conference, to hear Wasatch
reported by Sister Annie Duke who said
she only knew about the Young Ladies
Association when she was called to preside
over the Relief Society of the Stake. She
felt that young mothers needed just the in-
struction they could get in the Relief Soci-
ety, knew it would be good for them to
come and hear the experienced mothers
like Sister Zin[-] and such women as they
had heard today. She rejoiced in days
gone by when she could listen to women
who were wiser and loved to hear them in
their meetings, Sister Eliza and Mother
Whitney and those who were older, there
should be younger women in the society,
we need their help and they need us. Sis
ter Richards spoke of the house for confer-
ences and use of the General Society. Said
if a little was given in from all the settle-
ments it would soon accumulate, we could
have a place and have it dedicated, and it
was just what was needed.
	President M. I Horne spoke about the-
nursing class taught by Dr. Roberts free of
expense, and said that there was still op-
portunity for other students; spoke of the
growth of the society, new wards had been
organized, we had need of a three days
meeting, it would not be too long for all to
have an opportunity to report.
	Singing “Lord dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing.” Conference adjourned until April
1899. Dismissed with prayer by President
Susan Grant.
				E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


No one who is not a good listener can
possibly become a good conversationalist.


IN MEMORIAM.

EDNA SPRAGUE.
	Another of our dear sisters has been called to
leave us, Sister Edna Sprague of this place,
(Junction.) She died Oct. 13, 1898, after an ill-
ness of two weeks.
	Sister Edna was born in the 15th ward, Salt
Lake City, June 2, 1871. Her parents were David
and Esther La Baron. Her mother dying when
she was about four years old Edna came to live
with an older sister, Sister Ella Merrill, who is
the president of our Relief Society, and whose
husband, Brother John Merrill, is our Bishop. 
	Under the loving care of Brother and Sister
Merrill she grew to womanhood, and on Sep. 17,
1891, was married to Edwin E. Sprague. She
leaves four children, two boys and two girls, the
youngest a baby two weeks old.
	While we miss the dear sister who has “gone
before” and sympathize with those who are be-
reft, yet we can but bow in humble, silent sub-
mission to our Father’s decree, and pray for His
grace to strengthen us in all we are called to pass
through.
					ALICE HAYES.
Junction, Nov. 17, 1898.
ELIZABETH EDMONDS GAILEY.
	It is with sorrow we record the death of anoth-
er faithful sister, Mrs. Elizabeth Edmonds Gailey.
She was born July 24, 1854, at Lowstaff, Suffolk
Co., England.
	She was afflicted for a long time with consump-
tion. Her whole life was spent in the work of
God. Before her marriage much of her time was
taken up with the Y. L. M. I. A. in Salt Lake
City. She was a member of the ward choir and
a very useful member in the Relief Society.
	She was married to John Gailey May 21, 1886,
and since that time has been a teacher in the
Kaysville Relief Society and faithfully performed
that duty whenever her health would permit, al-
ways being cheerfnl and happy.
	She leaves a husband and three living children
to mourn her loss. It was hard for her to part
with her loved ones, she clung to life to the very
last. She has gone to rest until resurrection shall
unite them no more to part. ’Tis hard to part
with those we love, but parting comes to all.
CELIA HALL RAYMOND.
	Celia Hall Raymond died at her home October
22, 1898, of dropsy after an illness of nearly three
months.
	Celia, only daughter of Bradley and Elizabeth
Hall, was born at Liberty, Sullivan Co, New
York, April 20, 1825, and was reared in a quiet
home in a country place by a kind and gentle
mother, having lost her father at an early age.
	She was married to Grandison Raymond of the
same place, August 12, 1849. Shortly thereafter
she and her husband were influenced to go West
to investigate the principles of the Gospel. While
at St. Louis they became satisfied of the truth
and were baptized January, 1850. In the spring
that year they moved to Council Bluffs, Iowa, and
a year f[-]om that time went back to their old
home on a visit to settle up their affairs prepara-
tory to gathering with the Saints.
	In the summer of 1852, they removed to Salt
Lake valley with their two small children, the
youngest being but ten days old when the journey
was commenced. They landed in Salt Lake City
and after remaining here for some time moved to
Bountiful where they made their permanent
home. She was the mother of ten children,
seven of whom survive her.
	Sister Raymond was a faithful worker in the
Relief Society as a teacher, in which capacity she
labored for many years. She was most generous
in giving to the poor in a private as well as a pub-
lic way, and in her home circle her kind, forgiving
and self-denying character cannot be too highly
praised
	Funeral services were held on Monday at 1
o’clock in the meeting house. The speakers
were Brothers John Ellison, William [-]eezl[-]y,
Ebenezer Williams T. F. Rouche, John R.
Barnes and John Thornley.
					SARAH B LAYTON


OBITUARY.

		CAROLINE HARRIS POULTON.

	Died at her residence on Sunday, November 6,
1898, Caroline Harris Poulton,wife of James Poul-
ton, after a severe a d lingering illness, which
she bore with patience and fortitude. Deceased


was born at Straford on Avon, February 4, 1829.
	She received the Gospel in early childhood,
being baptized without the knowledge of her
father, her mother being a faithful Latter-day 
Saint She was married to Elder James Poulton
October 14, 1852. She with her husband set sail
on the vessel Amazon for Salt Lake City, June 4,
1863. They crossed the plains with ox teams and
arrived in Salt Lake City, October 4, of the same
year. They have resided in the 6th ward from
that time, her husband being the leader of that
choir since the fall of 1864, and Sister Poulton
being an active singer for many years in the same.
	She was a faithful worker in the Relief Society,
being a teacher which labor she performed for 
many years, as long as her health would permit.
She held this position unti the day of her depart-
ure from this life. She was also one of the
wheat committee.
	She ever proved a faithful wife and loving
mother. She was blessed with twelve children,
seven sons a[-]d five daughters, four of whom have
passed away She leaves six sons and two
daughters and thirty-four living grandchildren to
mourn her loss. One of her sons has recently re-
turned from filling a fai[-]hful mission.
	Her life was an eventful one, she enduring all
the hardships incident to early days. Her health
had been failing for some time. After undergo-
ing an operation twelve months ago she seemed
to rally, but three months previous to her demise
she was taken with another severe attack, but her
faith was strong in the Lor[-] and His ordinances, 
she being desirous of receiving with her husband
all the blessings that can be obtained in the
House of the Lord. The brethren, and the sis-
ters of the Relief Society rallied around her and
exercised such faith and unremitting kindness,
and through t[-]e administration of the Gospel she
was once more restored, the physicians having
given her up. [-]hrough the mercy of the Lord
she was able to go to the Salt Lake Temple and
there with [-]er husband received all the blessings
that can be obtained in the house of the Lord.
Her work being completed it pleased the Lord to
call her home, and she passed peacefully away.
	The funeral services were held in the 6th ward
assem[-]l  hall on the 8th inst. Many timely re-
marks were made by President Joseph E. Taylor,
Bishop James C. Watson, Brother Green and
others The coffin was beautifully covered with
flowers from loving friends,and to those who were
there it seemed that Sister Poulton was not dead 
but sleeping.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolved, That as our heavenly Father in His
wisdom has seen fit to call home our sister to a
better life, w  the officers and members of the 6th
ward Relief Society express our sincere sympathy
to the bereaved husband and family in their loss,
feeling, also, that they have been greatly blessed
with her wise and faithfu[-] counsel and example. 
Be it further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed up- 
on our society records, also a copy sent to the
“Woman’s Exponent” for publication
				ISABELLA WEST, Pres.
				ELIZABETH W.CONDIE,Sec.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. 

	Minutes of Oct. 14, 1898, Counselor E.
J. Stevenson presiding. Singing “Come
hither all ye weary souls.” Prayer by Sis-
ter J. C. Howe. Singing “Glorious things
are sung of Zion.” Minutes read and ap-
proved.
	Sister Stevenson made opening remarks,
exhorted the sisters not to follow the fash-
ions of the world and gave good counsel.
	Sisters H. M. Wright, Ellen Barton and
another sister, also Sister Black, each bore 
good testimonies of the truth and regarding
experiences in their own lives.
	Sister Mary A Freeze spoke of the good
instruction she had received from Sister
Eliza, Sister Zina and others. Sister Eliza
had told the sisters not to pray to the Lord
to have their trials removed, but ask Him
to give them faith to live above them.
	Sister Brixen had just returned from a
trip to the old country, her native land. 
When she was away she thought of her sis-
ters here at home in Zion. She visited two


[Column 1]
branches of the Relief Society over there
and told them of our meetings and the
unity among the women here. Many of
them were anxious to emigrate. Sister
Brixen felt these meetings had prepared her
to understand the Gospel that she might be
able to instruct her dear sisters in foreign
lands, she thought every sister should be
interested in Relief Society work.
	President Elmina S. Taylor felt thankful
for our aged sisters, and that she had been
privileged to associate with them. Spoke
of the trials she passed through because of
the opposition of her family in joining the
Church, but there was nothing on earth to
tempt her to deny her religion, wondered
how many would fall by the wayside, she
could see that many were departing from
the truth but prayed that all present would
be preserved faithful.
	Sister M. A. Hardy expressed her grati-
tude, was glad she remained faithful, had a
strong testimony to bear.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde had a testimony of
the work of God, had always been associated
with Sister Young and other good and
noble sisters, it had been a trial to her to
assist in the work of the society, but she
was thankful she had accepted the position
she now held and knew it had benefited her.
	Sister M. O. Brown thought it was easier
for some to remain faithful than others.
The Gospel principles seemed familiar
when she first heard them, felt it was beau-
tiful, every family ought to be interested.
	Another sister gave her experience and
related incidents of a visit to relatives in
Canada.
	Counselor Stevenson said the Lord had
opened the way and she had got some
genealogy of her family. Gave good ad-
vice to all present, exhorting them to be
faithful.
	Singing, Doxology. Adjourned for two
weeks. Benediction by Sister Alder.

	Minutes of Oct. 29, 1898, President M.
I. Horne presiding. Singing “O, say what
is truth.” Prayer by Counselor Webb.
Singing “Who are these arrayed in white?”
	The president alluded to the organization
that led to these meetings and believed
President Young was inspired of the Lord,
realized that He preserved His children and
those who trusted in Him from the world
and its turmoil. We must acknowledge
His hand in all things and seek for wisdom,
knowledge and discernment. These are
the days of proving and days of temptation.
Let us set an example worthy of imitation,
be firm, steadfast and watchful that Satan
may not deceive us. Those around us can-
not take the spirit of God from us if we are
in possession of it by obedience. Now that
winter is coming she wanted the presidents
to look after the poor and see what they
need.
	Counselor B. W. Smith spoke upon the
necessity of being true and faithful, and to
teach our children to be honest and virtu-
ous so they can resist temptation. Sister
Smith had selected an article to read in the
meeting, Sister Hyde read it, it was a de-
scription of the deplorable condition of the
morals of the world, and how incompetent
religious denominations were to cope with
the existing evils. A prophecy was next
read of the Prophet Joseph Smith’s in re-
gard to war.
	Counselor Webb said, “We cannot be too
humble and charitable, we must set a good
example and be careful of little things,
visit and comfort the sick and exercise faith

[Column 2]
and it will be a blessing to ourselves and
others to whom we minister.”
	Sisters Rawlins, Nuttall and Morris each
bore excellent testimonies and made excel-
lent remarks on interesting subjects.
	Counselor Stevenson said it is one of the
commandments given to the Saints to meet
together often, and we should teach our
children the principles of the Gospel and
prepare them for life; also spoke urgently
of the work in the Temple, which was a
blessing to the living and the dead.
	Sisters Leaker and Wright, Nellie Taylor
and Julia Woolley spoke of the goodness of
God and the blessings of the Gospel and
testimony of the truth, and President Horne
read a letter from Brother Bassett about
teaching singing to the Relief Society and
asked for the vote of those who would join
a class in singing; but the sisters did not
feel they could at present. She also wished
some of the sisters to visit Dr. Robert’s
nursing class.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks by
singing “We thank Thee O, God for a
prophet.” Benediction by Sister L. D. Alder.
		LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.

	Minutes of Nov. 12, 1898, Counselor
Stevenson presiding in the absence of Presi-
dent Horne. Singing “Lord we come be-
fore Thee now. ” Prayer by Sister Clara
Cannon. Singing “O, ye mountains high.”
	Sister Cannon said she wished each Re-
lief Society to give in a sentiment, they
were to be recorded in a book and given to
Sister Horne for a birthday present and
that a meeting would be held in the Assem-
bly hall next Saturday in honor of her
birthday.
	Minutes read and approved. Counselor
Stevenson said she thought we were blest
beyond those of our sisters who are living
in our surrounding cities and towns, we
were privileged to hear the apostles and
people of God almost every time we went
to meeting.
	President Horne arrive. Sister Jane
James find another sister bore faithful testi-
monies. 
	Sister Zina H. Bull sent in her resigna-
tion, stating that it was impossible for her
to continue her labors. A vote of thanks
was tendered her and Sister Julia S. Wool-
ley was sustained as secretary to fill the
place made vacant by her resignation
	Sister Horne said she felt that this peo-
ple were her people, and where they go she
wanted to go. She knew Joseph Smith was a
prophet of God, the greatest that ever lived
except Jesus Christ. Said there were so
many false spirits abroad that each one
must have a testimony in her own heart to
resist their power, we must watch that we
be not led astray. Said our Stake secretary
of the Relief Society had resigned and Sis-
ter Augusta W. Grant had been selected to
take her place. She was unanimously sus-
tained in that office.
	Sister Julia Howe said we had received
the priesthood in connection with our hus-
bands and had had the Holy Ghost confer-
red upon us. She thought economy should
be a part of our religion and use what
God blesses us with for building up the
kingdom of God. Exhorted all to sustain
each other, redeem our dead and increase in
faith, and not do as those who are rich and
grow faithless. Let us pray for each other,
especially those who are placed in responsi-
ble positions.
	Sister Morris spoke beautifully to Sister
Jane James. Sister Georgie Young was

[Column 3]
present to announce an entertainment to be
given in the Assembly Hall on Friday night
the 18th for the benefit of the Kindergarten.
	Several other sisters bore strong testi-
monies of the truth of the Gospel and the
goodness of God.
	Sister Derrick related instances of the
fulfillment of prophecy in her behalf. Sis-
ter Paul said she had been blessed in the
Temple and had many promises fulfilled.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder said the trials of
life are hard to pass through but God will
bear us up. Several other sisters bore testi-
monies of God’s goodness to them and the
power that had been made manifest in heal-
ing them, as well as giving them spiritual
blessings. 
	President Horne said she would advise
the sisters to all rise on their feet and testi-
fy of God, said Jesus Christ said He would
testify to our Heavenly Father of those who
would testify of Him before man. Said she
always had attended her meetings for she 
needed spiritual food.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing.”
Benediction by Counselor Webb.
		JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


It is quite possible to go through an end-
less variety of experiences, to suffer deeply
and enjoy keenly, to see all the countries of
the world, to hear what great men have to
say and to live to a good old age with a
past full of stirring occurrences, and yet
have very little to add to the wisdom, or
knowledge, or interest of mankind. It is
not a man’s actual experience, but that
which he has gained from it that determines
its value to himself and, through him, to 
society.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1899.		NO 15.


CONTENTS:
	Miss Anthony’s Letter. An Old Old Love
Story—E. B W. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting
—Julia S. Woolley, R. S. Reports—Salt Lake
Stake—Emery Stake—Sanpete Stake. Relief
Society In Omaha—J. L. Hatch.
	EDITORIAL:—A New Years’ Greeting. An
Appeal. Dr. Roberts’ Nursing Class. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY:—A Voyage of Life—E. B. W.


A VOYAGE OF LIFE.

Once on a time in the days that are olden,
	 “The dear, dead days of the beautiful past,”
When our hearts were light, and our visions
		golden
	Then love seem’d to fill the universe vast.

We sent our ships forth over perilous seas,
	With their precious freight bound for havens
		fair,
And the sails unfurl’d in the tremulous breeze,
	Signals of triumph, to do, and to dare.

Many proud vessels came back heavy laden,
	With cargo of precious jewels full store;
And only a few were with storms o’er take,
	And stranded, or lost on a dang’rous shore.

The pilots were cautious, the vessels built strong
	Storms might rage fierce in midst of t[-]e ocean;
Yet bravely they sailed, tho’ the voyage was long;
	Their trust was in God with faith and devotion

But clouds have since dark’ned the sky that was
		clear,
	And many new dangers threaten the way,
The mariner sailing has much more to fear,
	For treach’rous signals, tempt vessels astray

Yes, the ocean of life has chang’d in its cour[-]e,
	No longer may youth go sailing secure,
They’re met by an enemy, oft with such force
	Their bark must ride fea[-]lessly if they endure!

More beacon lights warn them of drifting ashore,
	More signals, more trumpets sound the alarm
Yet wrecks of life’s voy’gers increase more and
		more,
	How shall we save them from coming to harm?

Can we turn back the tide that’s set in so strong.
	Wrecking the vessels just put out to sea?
O have we been guiltless of error and wrong?
	How shall we answer in worlds yet to be?

O, let us by Faith light a beacon so bright,
	That its rays may shine forth from shore to
		shore,

And the wand’rers bark in a perilous night,
	May find its way safe, tho’ the wild waves roar.

Let Love be the Shibboleth now evermore,
	“Pass the word down the line, ’afar off and near
Truth be our armor, till Life’s voyage is o’er;
	And white wings of Peace, our vessel shall
		steer.
							E. B. W.


Women are to the fore in educational
matters in Colorado. Out of the fifty-nine
counties in the state, twenty seven have
women superintendents of schools and
every school board has one or two women
members.


Snow-flakes are falling, so softly so white,
I fancy they’re whispering to my heart to-night;
So pure and so sweet through the darkness of
	even,
They fall at my feet [-]ike a message from heaven.
I fancy them letters the angels have thrown
From the windows of heaven and watched them
	come down.
And then as they spread their pure folds o’er the
	sod,
They seem like a letter—a message from God.
Put over its surface in sparkles of gold,
His unfailing promise to mortals is told.
That under the fold of this soft, sunny glean
He guards the life-buds of the beautiful Spring.


MISS ANTHONY’S LETTER.

My Dear Mrs. Wells:
	I have before me your good letters of
Nov. 2nd and 14th, also several others from
women in Utah, all relative to the election
of Mr Roberts. The deed is done—the
women of Utah, as well as the men, voted
their party ticket regardless of the right
action of its Congressional nominee on the
woman suffrage question. Congress will
not reject him because of his disloyalty
to woman’s rights, and it is doubtful if it
will on account of his family relations;
but we shall see what we shall see!!
	If his influence in Washington is against
woman suffrage you must expose him right
along, just hold him to woman suffrage.
	Governor Wells’ word was splendid, give
him my kind regards, and also to each and
all of the Wells family. They are made of
good sterling stuff, and that is the kind of
people this nation most needs. The point
of Mrs. A’s letter was that the Utah Suf-
frage Association ought to publish an earn-
est protest against Mr. Roberts; that you
surely can do. Mrs. S. tells of securing an
expression from Mr. Roberts that he would
not oppose suffrage. Both seem very earn-
est for the honor of the women of the State.
I do hope all women, Mormon or Gentile,
will banish sectarianism or partisanshipism,
and talk and work and vote only for good
officials, regardless of church or party!
There are good and bad men and women in
all churches and all parties, and it is
only the good that should be selected for
official positions.
	Your women must learn from this elec-
tion the vital importance of their presence
in the very first nominations, for after the
nominations are made it is so very difficult
to persuade voters to stand there for any
save their own party nominees. But it will
take time to teach women. Why men have
not learned the lesson with a hundred and
more years of practice, then let us be patient
with women’s mistakes at the first and
second time of voting. What you need in
Salt Lake is a local council of all the differ-
ent societies and clubs; and then for the
officers of the council to make the move for
or against public measures or men, thus
acting for all the women of the city, Mor-
mon or Gentile, Republican or Democratic,
silver or gold—instead of as now, one
<p>arty protesting and all the others silent.


That morning session in Omaha when
the Local Council reported their work was
very impressive to me, and I am working
to get our Rochester women’s clubs and
societies to organize into a local council.
We cannot help suffrage in so speedy a
manner. We want women on the school
board, women on the board of city physi-
cians, etc., etc. For any one of our clubs
to move for the result would amount to
nothing, but for all of your associations
combined in a local association to make the
move would effect the thing desired. Cer-
tainly with you women who hold the ballot
in your hands!! So to combine the forces
of your women into one voice, one action,
is your great need. But it should be stated
by a call for a meeting signed by the presi-
dents of all of the most popular clubs.
Your suffrage society, like ours, should be
one of these, but not the first or leading
one. Here we have an Ethical club of
four or five hundred women, and I shall try
and get its president to lead off for the
council.
	Do you know I really believe if the suf-
frage clubs would quietly get behind the
scenes and work for such local councils we
would do an immense educational work. I
am going to try what it will do in Roches-
ter, that is sure. * * *
Lovingly and loyally yours,
SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
Dec. 5, 1898


AN OLD, OLD STORY.

	This story has been told but not written,
of that I feel tolerably certain; and as I
could not from experience tell such a fine
story myself, I can only write one told to
me by a school friend a very long time ago.
	She was a famous little tory and all the
rest of us were pure, blue-blood Yankees,
but she told us such wonderful tales that
we looked upon her as a veritable fairy.
We were quite unwilling then to think
these things were all true, and yet since
those days I have many a time and oft
heard stories far more extravagant, and can
easily believe now that Pamela Kingsley
told the truth as she had heard it from her
governess about her maiden Aunt Dilli-
way with whom she lived. She was her
great aunt, the sister of her grandfather
Dilliway, who was a “royalist to the back-
bone,” Pamela told us. And really she
used to sort of queen it over us, in a way,
because she knew all about Xmas and we
barely knew the name. Aunt Dilliway lived
in Boston and her niece, Miss Pamela
Kingsley was sent up in the country to get
fresh air, new milk and the scent of wild
flowers and new-mown hay. That was
how we come to know her, and as we
adored Boston girls we all fell in love with
her before we knew she was a tory.
	Notwithstanding Pamela was from
Boston she didn’t know much more about
Yankees than we did about tories, she had
never been at school before but had a
governess at home, and as her great aunt
Dilliway was not equal to managing a
French governess and an obstinate little


[Column 1]
girl, who was also very delicate; she made
up her mind to send her into the country
for a while to her great uncle on her fath-
er’s side, Judge Kingsley. His wife had
no sympathy with girls who always wore
white muslin, laces and ruffles, and so sent
her to the school with the country girls, and
Pamela was not in the least punished. She
enjoyed it immensely, she knew she was
the best dressed girl in the school and her
city ways were very taking, but most of all
she was fond of telling what she knew in a
fantastic sort of fashion that was ever so
much better than any story book we had
ever read. One Saturday when we were
out in the woods for a ramble and had tired
ourselves climbing, the most romantic girl
in the crowd turned to Pamela and said,
“Do tell us about your Aunt Dilliway when
she was a little girl; you say she was a per-
fect beauty and a great belle in her day.”
	“Well, girls, Aunt Dilliway is so proud
that if she saw me here on the rocks spin-
ning yarns to you girls, she would have me
sent home by the first coach for Boston.
She’s old and grey now but she wears a wig
and paints her cheeks, and there’s a lovely
painting of her upstairs, and she’s even
been written about in books in London
when she was young and beautiful, and she
broke two or three men’s hearts, and then
she got her own broken.”
	“Served her right!” said two or three all
in a breath.”
	“No it didn’t,” said Pamela, “If you
knew what she suffered.”
	“How did you find out about her love
affairs?” inquired the one who had asked
for the story, and who in fact was all her
life getting people to tell her things she
meant some day to put into books.
	“Girls every one of you must promise
never to tell, for Aunt Kingsley wants a pre-
text to send me home, I know it, and if she
could find out about the things I’ve told
you girls, she would bundle me off in
double quick time.”
	Of course we all promised and then we
asked “How about the young men? tell us
about them.”
	“They all married afterwards all but one,
and he got killed, and Aunt Dilliway wears
the ring he gave her—now he’s dead, and
she has her white satin wedding dress all
trimmed with rich lace, hid away in a
cedar chest, and a long lace veil all em-
broidered in a nunnery.”
	“Oh, a nunnery! tell us about the nuns,
if there is anything mysterious we want to
find it out,” said half a dozen at once.
	The whole bevy of girls were wild to
hear about the nuns, but Pamela answered,
“My aunt didn’t know about the nuns, she
isn’t a Catholic, she’s High Church Episco-
pal, and sits every Sunday in King’s chapel
in a great, high pew, and makes me sit by
her, and I daren’t wink but I nearly fall,
asleep, and then she nudges me with her
great feather fan and whispers ‘Miss Pame-
la sit up.” ’
	“Who were your Aunt Dilliway’s beaux,
were they noblemen?”
	“They were gentlemen, one was very
courtly and handsome and brave and a fine
singer, and my aunt played the harp—the
very same one she has now up in the corner
of her boudoir covered with real tapestry.
I asked her about it one day and she said it
was an heirloom.”
	“How did you find out about all these
fine gentlemen and your great aunt’s love
stories, you say she never talks to you?”
	“Why from Belmont, the governess, you

[Column 2]
know; that’s why she was sent home to
France, and I was packed off up here to
cure me of prying into family secrets; my
aunt says she has ruined me every way,
gave me sweetmeats and all sorts of for-
bidden things, and told me the love stories
of the Dilliway family for generations back,
all of which she got hold of herself by spy-
ing, and getting into old letters in the cab-
net, the Dilliway rosewood cabinet, hun-
dreds of years old made in Switzerland.”
	“Miss Pamela tell us what about the let-
ters we don’t care for the cabinet that hid
them,” said Julia, the most curious girl in
the crowd. “What a wonderful part letters
have played in the lives of men and women
ever since the days of Jeremiah the prophet.
Letters do play the mischief, I shall never
write any myself.”
	“You’ll be the first one to do it undoubt-
edly; but Julia, you must have taken to
reading the Bible lately to know so much
about Jeremiah, but remember in those
days everything was written on parchment
and in rolls, and they were not letters car-
ried by post,” broke in Lottie Brooks.
	“No, but they made a lot of trouble, all
the same, and dreadful things came to pass
that had been written about and then hid-
den away.”
	“Girls let’s not go back to Jeremiah, its
quite enough to go back to Pamela’s Aunt
Dilliway, and if we linger much longer
we’ll have to go home without the love
story, and we all dearly love that kind of a
romance. What was in the letters that so
offended your aunt when you found it out?”
interpolated Nellie. 
	“It was a sort of disconnected history
but Belmont put this and that together, and
told me that my great aunt had to run
away to America because some one fought a
duel about her. You see she was engaged
to two or three young men at once, and
after all it wasn’t her fault, she explained
some of it to me and cried and her lips
were as pale as ashes. I never expected to
see Aunt Dilliway shed a tear, she never
cried when bad news came, not even when
any one died that she had known all her
life. She used to tremble a little and her
lips would quiver, and that was all.”
	“Then she is a real born tory is she?
What did she come here for? Was it true
that tale Belmont told about a duel? Did
your aunt own up to it?” cried the roman-
tic one of the girls.
	“It wasn’t quite true, but Harry Severn
was dead when she came over to America,
and she will never set foot on English soil
again, never.”
	“Then she ought to be an American and
not a tory. Harry Severn, was he an offic-
er of rank, brave and accomplished? I
judge so from what you told us about the
harp.”
	“Yes, he was a distinguished officer, but
Aunt Dilliway’s father made another
match for her, and he wanted to separate
her from Lieut. Severn. The family were
too poor, and he thought his daughter was
good enough to marry a duke, so he select-
ed the eldest son of a relative of a duke,
who was the heir (the duke had no children
and he was getting very old) and he was
soon to come into his inheritance. He paid
his addresses to my aunt and sort of fasci-
nated her with his elegant manners and all
that, but he didn’t touch her heart at all,
Belmont said, and then there was another
lover, a real duke in his own right, old and
had grown up daughters but no sons, and
he fairly persecuted Aunt Dilliway.”

[Column 3]
	“For goodness sake, Pamela, what was
your Aunt Dilliway’s name? She couldn’t
have been called Aunt Dilliway when she
was young.”
	“No, but she never will be called any-
thing but Miss Dilliway by people, and all
her letters come addressed to Miss Dilliway,
and I never knew she had another name
till Belmont said to me one day ‘Penelope
Dilliway,’ and I turned on her and said
‘who’s Penelope Dilliway please?’ ‘Penelope
she’s your great aunt herself.’ Before that
I had never thought about her having any
other name.”
	“Now do tell us about the three suitors
and how it all happened and she never
married either one of them. And, besides,
one day you said when your Aunt Dilliway
was a young girl they used to have gay
times at Christmas in England,” chimed in
the romantic young Miss who first asked
for the story.
	“And so they did, and I’ve heard of their
great doings and Belmont has told me
about Xmas in France, too.”
	“Well we haven’t time to go over all the
countries, finish this one story.”
	“So I will if you’ll let me, now keep
quiet. You understand there were three
men all in love with Aunt Dilliway. First
there was Harry Severn, then the young
heir-at-law, then the real duke. Two were
poor and one was rich, but Charles Plymp-
ton had ‘great expectations,’ and the Duke
of Weldmore he wanted a young wife hop-
ing to have a son.”
	“Did your aunt tell you that or did you
read it in the letters?”
	“No, Belmont told me. My aunt would
be wild with rage if she suspected I had
ever heard of it.”
	“It strikes me that your French gover-
ness ought to be sent to Halifax, but it
serves people right who set themselves up
like that, as if their children were so much
better than other peoples. I suppose that’s
toryism, but it isn’t American,” said Julia.
	“On the same principle,” said Gratia, a
very demure, little girl, “we are all sent to
this select school for girls, and simply be-
cause we are not to go with all the other
girls in the villiage, I tell you girls, its a
question of money. I heard my mother
say, ‘I shall send Gratia to a girls’ select
school as we can’t afford a governess.’ ”
	“So you are a little tory, too, are you?”
said Julia.
	“Now girls,” put in Pamela, “if you
are going to dispute about politics I shall
never finish this story and you’ll all dream
about it, and tomorrow will be Sunday, and
my aunt will make me read the Bible and
sing hymns all day, she’s a Puritan, there’s
no denying that, but she can’t take me to
meeting with her, that’s part of the bar-
gain, and uncle never goes any way. Now
where did I leave off, if you say much more
I shall not know whether I’m a tory or a
rebel.”
	“They’re both the same,” echoed two
or three at once.”
	“I am sure I don’t know where I left
off.”
	“You left off about Xmas time,” said
Jane Willis, “and that’s what we all want
to know about, I don’t care which of the three
men your aunt was in love wtth, if you
would only tell us about an English Christ-
mas in one of those great stone castles, or
large old-fashioned mansions, of which we
have so often heard yet know so little.”
	The girls were so inquisitive and inter-
rupted Pamela with questions all the way


[Column 1]
through her narrative that it is quite im-
possible after half a century to be anything
like accurate in the repetition, so I have de-
cided to tell the story myself as she told it
to us as nearly as I can remember it.
	You must imagine a dozen or more half
grown girls in short dresses with low necks
and wearing frilled pantalettes and low slip-
pers clustered around Miss Pamela, eyes
beaming with delight while she told the
love story of her great Aunt Dilliway.
AUNT DILLIWAY’S LOVE STORY.
	Penelope Dilliway was an only daughter,
and very proud of herself and her belong-
ings, had been taught all sorts of accomplish-
ments such as were considered woman’s
legitimate employment in those days, or
perhaps we should say for “fine ladies."
such as embroidery, singing, dancing and
playing the harp, especially dancing. Miss
Dilliway’s father was determined she should
marry well, and his idea of marriage was
wealth and title, one or both. His daugh-
ter, however, fell desperately in love with
a young lieutenant, a man of brilliant
parts, a fine tenor singer, and a general
favorite in society.
	Miss Dilliway resorted to all sorts of
subterfuges to deceive her irate father; and
her younger brother, (the maternal grand-
father of Miss Pamela) was her accomplice
in many well laid plots of the lovers. The
father introduced into the home the young
and fascinating heir-at-law of a dukedom,
Mr. Charles Plympton, who really had
great influence with Miss Penelope, by his
sophistry and polish, and at first Miss Dilli-
way fancied she was yielding to blind her
father to the true state of her love affairs
with the young lieutenant. But her broth-
er more quickly than herself detected the
fascination; and felt in duty bound to re-
monstrate with her saying, “You cannot
possibly be aware of your own inconstancy,
your desire to please Plympton in the mat-
ter of dress, the choice of flowers and per-
fumery, and above all your great desire to
be an expert horsewoman, all of which is
very apparent to a close observer, reveal per-
ceptibly how the matter stands. Father
speaks of it with great satisfaction at the
dinner table after you are gone, and Plymp-
ton chuckles with delight at the success at-
tending his suit. It is downright coquetry
think of it as you will, sister, I believe you
are innocent, I believe you love Harry
truly, but Plympton’s wiles and artifices
are luring you on to your own destruction.”
	When thus reproved Penelope would
weep, (she had tears for occasion then) and
declared she would never try to please
Plympton again, let him pursuade as he
might, she would give up riding much as
she enjoyed it, and remain away from balls
and pleasure parties, where she would be
likely to meet one who sought her against
her will.
	Meantime Harry Severn was away with
his regiment, but rumors reached him of
Penelope riding in the park with Plympton,
and other like rambles together, of their
dancing together more often than even
lovers were wont in those days. Goaded
beyond endurance by his fellow officers he
obtained leave of absence and hurried to
London.
	Arriving at the time of Xmas festivities
he looked up young Dilliway his true friend
who unconscious of the presence of Plymp-
ton at the hall took Harry Severn home
with him, thinking it would be an easy

[Column 2]
matter to come unannounced and surprise
his father, who though perhaps nonplussed
at first was too much the gentleman in his
own house to be rude even to an unwelcome
guest. Unfortunately he had "reckoned
without his host." Penelope was in the
gayest of spirits[-] regardless of her protesta-
tions to her brother, she had dressed her-
self with the greatest care in the colors
Plympton preferred, and even wore his
favorite flowers, sent from his own hot
house, and everything in and about the
mansion bespoke a woman’s desire to please
the guest of the occasion.
‘The mistletoe hung in the castle hal[-],
The ho[-]ly branch shone on the old oak wall.'
	Young Dilliway sprang from the cab and
Harry Severn followed him into the great
wide hall amid a perfect blaze of light and
dazzle of brilliancy; beyond was the library,
and the brother thinking to give his sister
the pleasure of a lover’s greeting hurried to
the library with his young friend while he
went himself to call Penelope. The library
opened on the other side from the drawing
room, and while Harry stood waiting ex-
pecting momentarily to see his sweetheart
the heavy tapestry curtains parted, and
beaming with smiles, and radiant as the
sun, in steps Penelope followed by Charles
Plympton. At sight of her lover in mili-
tary cloak and plumes, she paled like death
and would have fainted had she not burst
into tears; the soldier never stirred, he stood
like a statue, a few seconds and the brother
came to the rescue, he took his sister and
led her from the library through the long
hall up the marble staircase to her own
room and there he left her “alone with her
conscience.”
	He was absent a few seconds but in that
time angry and bitter words had passed be-
tween the two young men[-] and a quarrel
seemed inevitable. The brother succeeded
in pacifying them by reminding them it was
Xmas eve, and that “Peace and good will”
had always prevailed at such times in all re-
spectable English homes; that it would be
an unpardonable offense for two gentlemen
to disturb the host, and what would be
gained by giving way to an insane passion
for supremacy in a young girls affection.
“Besides,” he added, “you believe, doubt-
less in the old saying ‘All is fair in love
and war.’ ”
	While her brother was making peace be-
low stairs, Penelope’s sobs and shrieks had
brought her maid Honore to her assistance,
and with the aid of restoratives and condo-
lences, she finally calmed her nerves, pur-
suaded her to change her apparel, and
make herself presentable at dinner, for there
was to be quite a large party of gentlemen
and a few ladies, among them the old duke
who was so enamored of Penelope, that he
made himself ridiculous in the extreme.
	Penelope had at least two good hours in
which to compose herself and her father
and brother were too much engaged in pre-
parations to pay any attention to other
matters; as for Ned he was maneuvering to
keep peace with the two disappointed lov-
ers, and so Penelope had time for reflection.
Her maid consoled her pride and vanity by
saying “she was sure it was no harm for a
pretty young woman to dress to please
visitors, and of course, honey, you were
perfectly innocent, tho’ if you had known
Mr. Severn was coming home you would
have worn moss roses and violets and pale
blue silk instead of that gay figured satin
with the poppies, and I know the Lieut. is
the favorite by your blushes.”

[Column 3]
	Poor Penelope tried in vain to hush the
voluble maid, who simply adored her young
mistress as she had the mother whom she
had served when Penelope was a child, and
who had been dead now some years; and as
trusted servants will she took great liber-
ities in talking, not only to Miss Penelope
but to Miss Penelope’s lovers, whenever
she had an opportunity making each in
turn believe he was the prime favorite
	Finally the dinner gong rung and Penel-
ope pale and trembling dressed demurely in
Quaker gray satin, emerged from her room
and went almost stealthily to the great,
oaken dining hall. Her brother had come
forward and to disguise the awkward
library scene from his father, said, “My
sister, I have a surprise for you, here is our
young Lieut. home on furlough, and Mr.
Plympton and the Duke of Weldmore, Lady
Eliza and Miss Bessie, his daughters,” and
so on through the entire company. Mr.
Dilliway was in such high spirits that he
did not observe the sedate and studied man-
ner of his daughter, nor the black looks in-
terchanged between the three suitors. He
thought only of the grand dinner and the
grander guests, who had come at his invita-
tion to partake his hospitality; for rich as
he was, favored by fortune, he had no
claim to titles and it was something of a
condescension on their part, to have his
table filled with men and women of rank
and title. He had no idea a storm was
brewing there and then that would end in
sorrow and disgrace.
	Dowager Lady Cushing sat at the table
by Miss Dilliway for in those days it was
not proper for unmarried ladies to enter-
tain at dinner, unless they had reached an
uncertain age; and after much feasting and
gay interchange of witty toasting and rep-
artee the ladies retired to the drawing room
and Penelope breathed more freely. Two
or three times Lady Cushing rallied her for
lack of her usual witticisms, she was an ad-
mirer of Penelope’s beauty and would glad-
ly have secured her as a wife for her young-
est son, but he was sensible enough not to
venture into the field with so many rivals,
even at his mother’s earnest solicitation.
Ned Dilliway and Harry Severn excused
themselves soon after the ladies withdrew,
and went into the open air where they
could speak freely. Ned promised Harry if
he would be discreet, he would secure an in-
terview for him with his sister, whom he
was sure loved him best, notwithstanding
appearances to the contrary, and the Lieut.
went away out of sorts leaving his adieux
for Ned to make. In the dining room the
Duke boasted of his diplomacy in courtship
so openly that he angered Charles Plymp-
ton who bandied words with him until Mr.
Dilliway was obliged to interfere and sue
for peace, at least while under his roof at
Xmas time.
	Lady Cushing and the duke’s daughters
took affectionate leave of Miss Dilliway,
when the hour came for going, declaring
the dinner, the music and the entire
affair a perfect entertainment, and when
Lady Cushing kissed her she said, “Poor,
dear Penelope, what a pity you can’t marry
all your beaux. I’m sure you don’t know
which to choose between so many. I wish
my Dick would enter the contest.”
	Penelope half bewildered stammered out
“O don’t, Lady Cushing, spare him any share
of humiliation I am bringing on my-
self.”
	It was the first out break she had made;
(Continued on page 8[-].)


(Continued from page 87.)
but in a sense it was a sort of relief. She
had neither a mother, aunt or sister in whom
to confide.
	A day or two followed in pouring rain
and sleet and it was almost impos-
sible to go outside, no visitors came though
it was holiday week; and the real Christ-
mas, the day after the party was more for
the servants and people employed by them
than for the family. Penelope’s tears were
almost like the downpour of rain and she
begged Ned to make everything right with
Harry, and so he did and planned a meet-
ing which ended in a reconciliation and a
promise of marriage, as soon as the father’s
consent could be obtained. The Lieut. re-
turned to his regiment and Penelope set
about preparations for the bridal trousseau,
as she had independent means of her own,
and was left much to herself in matters of
expenditure, it was an easy thing to do.
London affords great opportunities for shop-
ping, and Honore knew all the best places
and establishments. The carriage was al-


[Column 1] 
ways at Penelope's disposal and no ques-
tions were asked. Mr Dilliway saw Plymp-
ton come and go often, and thought his
plans were working well; for the Lieut. 
had gone and of the difficulty between the
young men he was totally unaware. Oc-
casionally the old duke came and made
himself officiously familiar and Mr. Dilliway
chaffed Penelope unmercifully about her
old lover; but she kept her own counsel
and took no one into her confidence except
her brother Ned and Honore. And the
winter passed away with only a few house
parties here and there, the Plympton’s and
Dick Cushing would gladly have escorted
Miss Dilliway anywhere, and she had the
entree into the best society, for her beauty
and her voice were almost marvelous;
wherever she went she attracted great at
tention, and the young men in her set were
wild in her praise.
	The old Duke of Osmond died very sud-
denly at last, although his death had been
long talked of, and Charles Plympton the
rightful heir, very soon came into the estate,
assuming the name and title. Mr. Dilli-
way rested secure; to all appearances Charles
was in proud possession of the field, and he
began to urge his daughter to prepare for
marriage settlements, and to purchase
bridal apparel. It was not difficult for Miss
Dilliway to dissemble. Honore thought it
all right and Ned did not object, now that
he felt sure she would be true to Harry,
and Mr. Dilliway spoke of the affair in the
most positive way. The young Duke was
so elated with his newly acquired honors,
and Penelope was so amiable with him,
that he was deceived by appearances into
believing that she was to be his wife though
her manner was always distant and haugh-
ty. He felt he had none of a lover’s privi-
leges, and yet he was so vain and selfish
that he did not take it to heart. There had
really been no courting, but Charles had an
idea it was the proper thing among people
of rank to show no sort of weakness.
	Mr. Dilliway made up his mind the wed-
ding should take place in June and Honore
had given the duke to understand her mis-
tress had consented. And she also added,
“Everything is ready except the legal mat-
ters which can be arranged when the time
comes.”
	Ned was in communication with Harry
and had informed him that his father had
consented to Penelope’s marriage in June
and that he would be ready, and when the
final settlements were to be made Penelope
would be firm in her resolution to marry
none but her own true lover, and his father
tho’ reluctant would certainly consent to
her choice at last and all would be well.
Ned also informed him that Plympton was
sweet on Lady Eliza, eldest daughter of
Duke Weldmore and in fact showed her
marked attention and if he ascertained the
true state of his sisters affection he would
soon console himself by espousing Lady
Eliza, who was really a very proper young
person and had always been accustomed to
wealth and refinement, and would make a
very elegant duchess. 
	Harry Severn was too much in 1ove to
wait until sent for, and hurried up to Lon-
don two or three weeks before he was ex-
pected; when hearing from his old friends
that Penelope Dilliway was engaged to
Plympton became so enraged that he called
upon him at his own place, and proceeded
forthwith to accuse him of winning his
sweetheart’s affection. Both were hot-

[Column 2]
tempered and a challenge was the immedi-
ate result of the interview. The affair was
to be private and each was to choose a sec-
ond. Naturally Harry chose Ned Dilli-
way and the duke one of his own men. It
was to take place the following day and the
night was spent in secret preparations for
the encounter. Ned Dilliway was reluctant
to serve as second but he yielded, believing
Harry to be so good a lance that he would
come off conquerer and all would be well.
However, he would not consent to its tak-
ing place on English ground, and so they
crossed the Channel. It was not an un-
usual thing for Ned to be away from home,
and neither Penelope nor her father
dreamed of any mischief brewing.
	The duel was fought, the duke escaped
without a scratch, but Harry was wounded
and Ned was obliged to carry home the
wounded man and bear the unwelcome
news to his father, who was so overcome
with rage and disappointment that he died
shortly after in a fit of appoplexy. Penelope
suffered untold agonies, she put her bridal
apparel away, determined never to go into
society again, but retire from the world of
pride and fashion. The duke went abroad
until the affair should blow over. Ned was
constantly with Harry Severn until he re-
covered sufficiently to go away on the con-
tinent, he was obliged to leave the service,
and within three years from that Christmas
eve things had undergone a great change in
the Dilliway house. Ned married Miss
Hester Cushing, Dick’s younger sister,
some years later, Harry Severn was
drowned at sea while crossing on the Medit-
teranean, during his convalescence which
had been slow and tedious. During all 
these years Aunt Dilliway had never seen
him, though her heart was constant and
had he not met an untimely death they
would have married. Duke Osmond came
back to England and fairly persecuted Miss
Dilliway but she sternly refused to see him
and they never met except by accident,
when she would be taking exercise in the
parks or suburbs, and then he was persis-
tent in offering her attentions, which she
obstinately refused when possible. She
sent back his letters unopened, refused gifts
sent anonymously and finally made up her
mind that it was impossible to live in Eng-
land.

	Such was Aunt Dilliway’s love story
told to us with all sorts of embellishments.
And no better object lesson could have
been given to a bevy of thoughtless, roman-
tic girls. It was little wonder that Aunt
Dilliway lived the life of a recluse with
such a past behind her. Ned Dilliway was
Pamela’s grandfather and both her grand-
parents and parents were then quietly sleep-
ing in the Dilliway cemetery. Pamela was
left an orphan when only six years old and
had been sent to her aunt in America who
was also appointed her guardian; but when
she became aware of the escapades and
treachery of Pamela’s governess she was
without doubt seriously alarmed. The
governess had been sent from England, in
care of the little girl and had been trusted
as one of the household. Aunt Dilliway
thought the wisest course would be to send
her into the country to her uncle in whom
she had great confidence. Pamela had been
fondly attached to Belmont, and was very
much grieved at parting from her; previous
however, to her going she had given the
girl sound advice, warning her against and

[Column 3]
sort of deception by telling her incidents in
her own experience.
	Shortly after our ramble among the hills
news came of the sudden decease of Penel-
ope Dilliway and Pamela left for Boston
with her uncle. We never saw her after
but heard of her return to England, and
through the Kingsley’s that her aunt had
left a very peculiar will and a letter ad-
dressed to her grand niece warning her
against the temptations of pride, vanity,
and above all coquetry, and the love of
dress and of admiration, setting forth elo-
quently her own mistakes in early life and
dilating upon her long years of suffering,
repentance and prayers for divine mercy
and forgiveness; imploring Pamela never to
practice deceit of any kind, but to be con-
stant, virtuous truthful and upright in all
things, which was the only safe course to
pursue and the sure road to happiness here
and hereafter.
	This love story briefly told should be a
warning to every vain and self-satisfied
young girl, who longs for attention and
admiration from the opposite sex, or from
the world; many innocent ones fall into
snares and are led astray through vanity
and inordinate pride. If girls could only
realize the untold misery and life-long sor-
row they would bring upon themselves and
their loved ones, they would assuredly pause
in their mad career and never allow their
good name to be tarnished by being called
a flirt.
	“Oh what a tangled web we weave
	When first we venture to deceive.”
							E. B. W.


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at Pthe ost Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY JANUARY 1, 1898.


[Column 1]
A NEW YEAR'S GREETING.

	To the host of friends here and else-
where we offer our Happy New Year in
love and with best wishes for happiness and
prosperity during the year just entering
upon the threshold of Time. May it bring
with its varied seasons prosperity and peace
to the nation in which we live; may the
dark shadows which still linger in the
horizon of the year just past be quickly
dispersed and war no more like a bird
of ill-omen hoverover our fair land.
	Although the year 1898 opened aus-
piciously and civilization has made great pro-
gress along many lines, yet the war has
made terrible suffering and sorrow in tens of
thousands of homes the country over be-
sides the hardships, wounds and deaths of
the brave volunteers and soldiers them-
selves. Time alone can assauge the devas-
tation the war has occasioned, but even that
will not heal broken-hearted mothers, wives
and sweethearts.
	Utah was more fortunate than most other
states in this respect, and we know that our
boys and men who volunteered went forth
with the prayers and blessings and united
faith of thousands of the Latter-day Saints.
Yet many have returned home weakened
by fever and malaria, still we rejoice that
they are with us yet and hope for their
speedy recovery.
	The women of the Red Cross Society
throughout the land have done bravely and
here in our own state valiant work has been
accomplished; very little has been said or
published of these noble efforts put forth, in
philanthropic charity, bnt we know much
concerning it and how far-reaching it has
been.
	It is a matter of congratulation that
President McKinley mentioned the Red
Cross and its noble President, Clara Barton,
it is the first recognition of woman in the
message of a President of the United States
that we are able to recall. Let us hope that
it is a good omen for woman and that the
day so long looked for and so ardently de-
sired, when woman shall have her rightfnl
place in the annals of the nation, and in all
places and all measures that effect the wel-
fare of the people is not far distant.
	Would it could come to pass in Susan B.
Anthony's time or Elizabeth Cady Stan-
ton's whose courage in advancing human
progress has been so marked for more than
half a century?

[Column 2]
	But women have the courage not only to
act in the fruitful present but to wait with
sublime hope for the coming time, when
all over this free and happy land an era of
progress shall come to pass such as has
never been in any land of which we have a
knowledge. And let us believe it is not
far off. Many wonderful things have trans-
pired in the year to which we now say adieu,
and science and electricity and many new
forces in the material world are pushing
their way to aid mankind materially and
are not moral and spiritual forces doing
battle for the uplifting of humanity. There
is and must necessarily be elements in the
universe, if we but knew how to grasp them
that would aid the triumph of light over
darkness. We as a people know something
of this power, of the faith that can heal the
sick, and through prayer and humility bear
us up when all others means are powerless.
	And now again A Happy New Year to
one and all of the readers of our dear little
“Exponent.” May the year 1899 be a
year of prosperity and success beyond our
expectations in literary work; for the wo-
men of the Church and of this State need
more history written and more home litera-
ture instead of so much that is not worth
the time spent on it and money expended
for it. Our young women do not appreciate
the efforts put forth by the women who
have laid the foundation in this line of
work. They are even inclined, at least the
majority of them to under value pioneer
journalistic efforts, though it has preserved
for the good of the community many
records, histories and sketches of important
trensactions, educational, political, and of
organizations and industries.
	At the present time there are great
deficiencies to be met in closing up old ac-
counts, and starting with the new manage-
ment of the Deseret News Company, even
if it is possible to pull through, but the
Relief Society and those who believe in an
official organ for its advancement should
make strennous efforts to secure sufficient
subrcriptions to tide over the crisis. Other
papers have had similar experiences and
friends have come forward to assist
pecuniarily and given substantial help.
The only thing wanting for the "Ex
ponent to make it financially successful
is a larger circulation. Have the women
of Zion the active interest of the Relief
Society and the silk industry at heart and
if so will they co-operate in raising the
means necessary?
	The "Exponent" has endeared the writer
to very many of the sisters, who have been
its patrons, and the personal friendships and
sisterly relations by interchange of calls,
visits and correspondence have been very
gratifying and beneficial in many waps.
	To tell how dearly we love it and those
who have been its advocates and contribu-
tors would be a difficult task, beyond lan-
guage to express; only when heart speak
to heart can it be understood. May the
new year prove how we all love the "Ex-
ponent" by substantial patronage.


AN APPEAL.
	The agents of the “Exponent” in all the 
several wards and Stakes of Zion, and also 
individual subscribers indebted for the 
paper are urgently requested to settle all 
old accounts at the earliest date possible.
This becomes an absolute necessity on ac-
count of the change that takes place in the


management of the Deseret Evening News. 
The “Exponent’’ will not be sent to any 
subscriber after January 1899 unless pre-
paid. All delinquents will as soon as pos-
sible receive written notices of bills due in 
addition to the printed matter. 
	In consideration of the value of the “Ex-
ponent’’ to the Relief Society, and because 
of the work it has done in the cause of suf-
frage as well as the general educational 
help it has given the women of this inter-
mountain country.it seems scarcely possible
that women should be so careless of their 
own interest as to let the paper languish for 
want of support, yet the fact remains, and 
it is impossible to say what the women will 
do in the matter. 
	With the Relief Society of 30,000 women 
if one tenth of the number would take the 
paper and pay cash down it could be carried 
safely, yet that has been looked for, hoped 
for and waited for in vain. What the “Ex-
ponent has done to keep the society in 
various Stakes and in different parts of the 
world in touch with each other is of more 
value than the few hundred dollars it would 
take to maintain it independently. Appeal
after appeal has been made through the 
columns of the paper and by those who are 
its faithful supporters in public and in pri-
vate, and yet the failure to come forward 
with financial aid. At one dollar per year 
it seems incredible that the sisters who 
have the cause of Zion at heart and know 
as many hundreds do know the generous 
help the “Exponent’’ has given in ways al-
most innumerable, should not immediately 
raise the necessary funds, through large 
numbers of aubscriptions. Besides the 
great need the Relief Society has for an or-
gan of its own, the silk industry needs it
quite as much and both should have its 
support through the liberal patronage of 
the women of Zion.


Lady Warwick among English women is 
an excellent public speaker, fluent, easy 
and pleasing.


DR. ROBERT’S NURSING CLASS. 
	The nurse’s class taught by Dr. Margaret 
C. Roberts in the Templeton for the last 
six months or more, held its graduating ex-
ercises on Tuesday Dec. 20, Counselor An-
nie T. Hyde presiding in the absence of 
President Horne. Dr. Roberts gave the in-
structions free in the interest and under the 
auspices of the Relief Society in this Stake 
of Zion. The members of the class acquit-
ted themselves admirably, and the Dr. her-
self read a very able and highly instructive
paper, (which we would gladly have pub-
lished if space would permit.) Congratula-
tory remarks were made by President B. 
W. Smith, E. B. Wells and L. D. Alder, 
also Counselors Clara C. Cannon and 
Annie T. Hyde; Elder C. W. Penrose oc-
cupied a few moments. Sister Hyde in be-
half of the Stake Board presented to Dr. 
Roberts in a neat and happy speech a hand-
some rocking chair in appreciation of her 
generous labors, and the class through one 
of the students, Sister Jones, presented a 
silver cake dish filled with lovely flowers. 
Other gifts and tokens of love suitable to 
the happy occasion were made and the good 
spirit manifested itself very perceptibly. If 
the graduating nurses will be as conscien-
tious in their duties as the Dr. has been in 
giving them instruction the benefit to the 
society will be productive of great good.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 
	On Sunday July 31, 1898, Apostle J. 
W Taylor, Elders Horace Ensign and Fred
Graham with Susa Y. Gates organized a 
Relief Society in Pueblo, Colorado, Sister
Gates presiding at the meeting. Apostle 
Taylor told the sisters they had the privi-
lege of choosing their own president. They 
selected Mrs. Elizabeth Hart who chose 
for her counselors Amanda Coleman and 
Emma Simmons, Ella Branch, secretary 
and Turner Johnson treasurer. The soci-
ety seems to be flourishing and meetings 
are well attended, the sick, the poor and 
needy are attended to according to their 
needs. They have a little money on hand 
and are making a quilt, so we learn from 
a letter recently received. 
	We have been notified by letter of the 
change of officers made in the Relief Soci-
ety of Sevier Stake. The president, Sister 
Elizabeth Bean, and her first counselor, 
Sister Thurza Thurber, had presided since 
the first organization nearly twenty years 
ago, but on account of disadvantageous cir-
cumstances preferred to resign. The con-
ference was held at Glenwood and Elder 
Joseph Horne, counselor to the president of 
the Stake, was present and the resignations 
were accepted and a new Board of officers 
elected, Christina Sorenson, president;
Mary Magleby and Sister Tueson, counsel-
ors; Mary Swindle, secretary, and Caroline 
Bowman, treasurer. Sisters Bean and 
Thurber are satisfied with their labors and 
feel they have the love and confidence of 
the sisters. It was a great surprise to the 
General Board as they knew nothing of the 
change of officers.


R. S. REPORT. 

SALT LAKE STAKE. 
	The quarterly Stake conference of the
Relief Society convened December 3, 1898,
in the 14th ward Assembly Hall, at 10 a.
m. Present on the stand were President
M. I. Horne, Counselors Annie T. Hyde
and Clara C. Cannon, Presidents Zina D.
H. Young and Bathsheba W. Smith of the
General Board;and also of the Stake Board;
Julia C. Howe and Lydia D. Alder, aids,
Maria W. Wilcox, corresponding secretary;
Augusta W. Grant, recording secretary.
	Meeting opened by singing “God moves
in a mysterious way.” Prayer by Sister
Julia C. Howe. Singing “The resurrec-
tion day,” in remembrance of Sister Sarah
M. Kimball whose death was announced by
Sister Horne. The roll was then called.
	President Horne wished the sisters to re-
member the meeting is held the first Satur-
day in the month each quarter. The name
of Sister Augusta W. Grant was placed be-
fore the conference, and she was sustained
unanimously as Stake secretary.
	Presidents of the country wards were
were called upon to report.
	President Horne was pleased to hear the
reports, From her visits to the different
associations she found them all in good con-
dition. Those who donate will be blessed,
but those who do the spiritual work, which
is very important, will have additional
blessings. Now that winter is coming on
we must look after the worthy poor, they
must be taken care of. Prayed that the
Lord would bless us all and especially those
who have come so far this morning in the
cold. Spoke of the death of Sister Sarah
M. Kimball, and her faithfulness and good
works in life.
	President M. W. Wilcox, 4th ward, Salt
Lake City, spoke of the work of the aged
sisters who try to help themselves. Have
made 150 yards of carpet.
	President Zina D. H. Young said, “This
organization is from the Lord. I am
thankful that I am able to be here today.”
Gave reminiscences of the days of Nauvoo,
and hoped the sisters here would never
have to go through such trials. Spoke of
Sister Kimball’s good works.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith thought
now that Sister Kimball was gone she was
the only one who had been present at the
first organization of the Relief Society.
Wanted to see the Relief Society wide
awake and ready to do their duty. Take
an interest in our neighbors, do good to all
and work in the Temple for the dead.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “The God we adore.” Benediction by
President Sarah J. Cannon.
	Afternoon session 2 p. m. Singing, “O,
my Father.” Prayer by Sister E. L.
Webb. Singing “Where the voice of
friendship’s heard.’’ Minutes of the last
quarterly conference read and approved.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde felt honored to

(Column 2)
see so many of the elderly sisters, those
who had spent their lives in good works. 
Exhibited the album presented to Sister
Horne on her 80th birthday by the Relief
Society, and said it was a very appropriate
and beautiful tribute to one worthy of all
we can do. All of our young people do not
appreciate the work that is done by the sis-
ters and the Relief Society. The presidents
should be alive to their work and not allow
interest to lag. All strive to create an in-
terest, invite some one to come and give
special subjects, a lecture, or what-
ever they can do. They are mother’s class-
es. "Sister Horne wishes me to say that
she feels that the Lord inspired the sisters 
to do what they did for her, to make her
eightieth birthday memorable, and she is
very grateful.” Spoke of Sister Kimball
and said she was the only woman so far as
she knew that had laid the corner stone for 
a building, the Relief Society hall in the
15th ward.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon said she felt
very grateful to the Lord that she had been
raised from a bed of severe  sickness. Said
we cannot be grateful enough for His many
blessings, our lives should be such that we
will be living examples to the young peo- 
ple.	 Much depends upon the mothers,
they can teach their children not to associ-
ate or marry those outside of our Church.
The teachers can do much good by drop-
ping a word of counsel when they visit the
families, and mothers should gather their
families together when these teachers visit. 
It is not their only mission to collect con-
tributions for the poor, though that is a
great work; they should be able to expond
the scriptures. We should have something
instructive in all our society meetings,
reading or something besides reports, that
the young people may be attracted to the
meetings.
	Sister Horne raquested that the revela-
tion given to Emma Smith should be read 
by the secretary.	This is the 25th section
in the Doctrine and Covenants. President 
Horne made a few remarks on the same
subject and advised the sisters to read more
of these revelations, and take note of their
meaning, it will be a great benefit to them 
and they can see that the prophecies are be-
ing fulfilled-	The Prophet Joseph Smith
always had great respect and consideration
for the sisters.
	Sister E. Stevenson said when the war
was declared she felt that the way would
be opened and the Gospel carried to many 
people who had not heard it before. We
should be careful of our conversation be-
fore our children, improve our time and in-
form ourselves in the principles of the Gos-
pel. If we are tried remember that "Whom
the Lord loveth He chasteneth.”	Instil
faith into the hearts of your children, appre-
ciate the blessing and privilege of going
into the house of the Lord, and let us live
our religion, give great attention to our
children, the mission of motherhood is the
greatest on the earth.
	Sister L. D. Alder said, "I love the Gos-
pel, and I love all those who love the Gos-
pel.	Those who work and serve the Lord
by devoting themselves to their children are
doing a great work; but those who add to
this work by laboring in the Relief Society
need not neglect these duties." Paid a lov-
ing tribute to the memory of Sister Kimball.
Said let us make our choice of things for a
better world.	There should be no mourn-
ing when we leave this world. Great and


[Column 1]
glorious will be the reward of the faithful,
we are free to choose our lives, but must be
satisfied with the result.
	Sister Mary S. Clark of Farmington said
she could not remember when she did not
have a testimony of the Gospel. It seems
so consistent and reasonable. Felt the
wonderful influence of the good spirit in
this meeting, and felt paid for all the trials
she had passed through. She greatly
appreciated the changes that had taken
place and the many comforts that the Saints
have now. Bore a strong testimony and
told of many of the manifestations of the
goodness and power of God. Don’t let
little things influence us too much, but
think of the great things of the Gospel.
May we know our duty and strive to do it.
	Sister Horne stated that in some of the
the wards the ReliefSociety presidents speak
in the wards and we would try to make
this a rule in all the wards, to speak the
Sunday evening before conference. Please
remember presidents, that the first Satur-
day in March, always the Saturday before
fast day, every three months. Do not let
us be discouraged if the younger people
look upon us as being non-progressive, we
do our work quietly and do not herald our
labors by the sound of trumpets, but if we
continue faithfully to work in an earnest,
quiet way, we will be rewarded.
	Couference adjourned for three months,
first Saturday in March. Singing “How
firm a foundation.” Benediction by Presi-
dent Horne in the gift of tongues, inter-
preted by President Zina D. H. Young.
					A. W. GRANT, Sec.

			EMERY STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society Conference,
of Emery State. Held at Huntington,
Oct. 31st, 1898. Annie U. Larsen presid-
ing. Meeting commencing 10 a. m. by
the choir singing, “Come, Oh Thou King
of Kings,’’ under the leadership of Profes-
sor Hardie. Prayer by Brother Hardie.
The choir sang, “The happy day is rolling
on.” President Annie U. Larson, spoke
at some length, gave a report of the Stake.
Said, she with her counselors, had made a
visit to all the branches since our last con-
ference had found the sisters anxious to
adhere to counsel. Many had and were
building halls and granaries and storing
up wheat for time of need. There was a
steadily growing interest in silk culture.
Many had planted trees and cuttings and
some had raised a few worms; she had on
exhibition some beautiful cocoons and a
twist of silk that had been raised in Emery
County; she was pleased that the sisters
were willing to profit by the advice of the
stake board. After which Huntington,
Cleveland, Castle Gate, Orangeville, Castle
Dale, and Ferron were represented. Each
president substantiating the report of
President Larson. Bishop Johnson,of Hun-
tington spoke to the sisters, a short time en-
couraged them to lay up grain and hoped
the brethren would aid them what they
could.
	Congregation sang, “We thank thee O
God for a Prophet.” Benediction by Brother
M. E. Johnson.
	Afternoon session: Choir sang “Great
is the Lord” prayer by Brother Charles
Pulsipher. Sang, "How will the Saints
rejoice to tell.” Annie Larsen announced
the visitors from Salt Lake. Elder L. John
Nuttall, Sisters Stevenson and Alder. The
President from Price, Sister Pace gave a

[Column 2]
report. After which Sister Stevenson ad-
dressed the conference. She said mother-
hood was the greatest duty of life, urged
the older sisters to give their experiences to
theyoung mothers, teach them how to care
forthe babies when sick, thought many
little ones were taken away through not
knowing how to properly care for them.
A mother’s first duty was the care of her
children, all others were secondary. The
sisters should teach house-keeping in the
society; felt that ignorance on the subject
was the cause of many divorce cases.
This should be steadily improved upon by
the careful teachings of the mothers. Our
daughters married our sons and it should be
the careful study of every mother that they
were in every way worthy of each other.
Teach them virtue and self denial. Sister
Lydia D. Alder spoke of the importance of
attending the Relief Society said that sisters
who labored in the society would be satis-
fied with the life they had spent. It was
necessary that mothers should attend the
Sabbath school as much as anything else,
by blessing we are blessed. Our children
may be careless and wayward, but if we do
our part. they will yet come back, God will
keep a watch care over them. Be careful
how we spend our lives. By careful
thought we progress We must not lose
sight of the fact that it is necessary to have
trials, if we staid in the same place there
would be no advancement. If it is hard
for us today do as well as we can for it may
be harder for us tomorrow.
	Elder L. John Nuttall spoke at some
length on the needs and necessities of the
Relief Society. Said that each president
should take a pride in her society and make
it the best, the Prophet Joseph said the duty
of this society was to save souls, gave
several ways how this could be done. It
was the duty of the sisters to learn the
Gospel that they might be able to convert
others, many women would be called upon
missions and it was necessary to inform our
selves that we could do credit to the church
to which we belonged. He read extracts
from the minutes of the first organization
and commented upon it. Meeting closed
by singing “Now let us rejoice in the day of
salvation.” Prayer by Bishop Robertson.
	An officers meeting was called just after
the afternoon session. Elder Nuttall there
explained many things that were of great
importance to the sisters.
	An evening session was held, the choir
sang "Behold the Savior comes,” prayer by
Elder C. R. Johnson. Sang “Ye wander-
ing nations.” Elder Nuttall occupied most
of the time in a very instructive and in-
teresting manner; spoke of the first or-
ganization of the Relief Society its aim and
object, how it had been a great help to the
church, it being the first organization of
women on the earth and that the Prophet
Joseph had said he had turned the key for
women, how many organizations of women
had been effected since. and the good we
could do providing we never lost the spirit
of the gospel, we should all declare to our-
selves that “As for me and my house I in-
tend to serve the Lord.’’
	Sister Estella Colard sang “My Mountain
Home.”
	Sister Stevenson spoke of the silk culture,
encouraged the young ladies to join the
Relief Society.
	President Annie U. Larson made a few
remarks and said we would meet again at
9:30 a. m. Saturday, as the children’s con- 
ference would have a portion of the forenoon

[Column 3]
Choir sang “Behold the Mountain of the
Lord.” Benediction by Elder H. A.
Fowler.
	Saturday, 9:30: Annie Larson presiding.
Choir sang “Sweet is the work my God my
King,” prayer by Elder Samuel Rowley.
Sang, “Are we yet alive.”
	Sister Alder spoke of the inventions
that are in our day. It was a day of ad-
vancement, if we were not careful we
would be left behind. Urged the sisters to
cultivate themselves; we had no time to
lose. We should brighten up our mind
and make ourselves useful; explained
clearly how much good the Exponent had
been to the sisters, was anxious that the
members of the Relief Society should sus-
tain it. Advised the sisters to make a
study of the Book of Mormon. It was
necessary for the president to study the
members and help them to cultivate the
talent that was in them: we should make
confidents of our daughters and draw them
nearer to us that they might in return
make confidents of us, give them some-
thing to do in the Relief Society.
	Elder Nuttall was the next speaker. He
endorsed the remarks of the former speaker,
spoke of the difference in early times and
now educationally, read some of the min-
utes of the Relief Society held in the days
of the Prophet Joseph, said the sisters had
the right to lay hands on the sick.
	Stake Counselor Pulispher was pleased
with the conference and very thankful the
visitors had met with us.
	Stake Gounselor Josie E. Childs pre-
sented the general and stake officers of the
society which were unanimously sustained.
President Annie Larsen said the next con-
ference would be at Ferron Sang “Joy to
the world” Benediction by Elder Thomas
Hardie.
					M. J. SHIPP, Sec.

			SANPETE STAKE. 
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference
held in Moroni Dec. 9th, 1898. Counselor
A. L. Cox presiding, singing “How firm a
foundation.” Opening prayer by Elder
James Jensen; singing, “Now let us re-
joice” etc. Minutes read and approved.
	Counselor Cox made opening remarks.
Was pleased to meet with the sisters in
conference, but she very much regretted
the absence of our beloved president Sister
M. A. Hyde, who is seriousy ill, hoped the
sisters would all remember her in their
prayers. Roll call showed a fair repre-
sentation considering the severity of the
weather.
	The different branches were represented.
	Counselor A. L. Cox was greatly pleased
and encouraged by the favorable reports
and especially the increased attendance.
Said it was not the destiny of the Latter-
day Saints to stand still and was glad to
hear of the advance made along the lines of
Relief Society work. Was also pleased to
hear of increased diligence in storing grain.
Said before another conference a new year
will be ushered in. Hoped the spirit of im-
provement would continue to be manifest
in all our labors. Conference adjourned
till 2 p. m. Singing “Praise to the Man”
etc. Benediction by Sister Christina
Thompson.
	Afternoon session: Singing “The Spirit
of God” etc. Prayer by Sister Jane Bench,
Singing, “For the strength of the hills”
etc, 
	Counselor A. L. Cox was much gratified 
that so many of the presidents had ex-


pressed their intention of building granaries
for themselves, as it showed a desire to have
their wheat properly taken care of and thus
encourage others to contribute grain for
storing. Made reference to the recently ap-
pointed Annual Day on March 17; urged
the necessity of a general observance of the
day and also the collection of the ten cent
donation. Requested the sisters to sustain
the “Exponent” in a society capacity and
so far as possible, as individuals. Also
spoke on silk, dwelt at some length on the
duties of teachers, and the necessity of
seeking divine aid in their labors.
	Counselor Abagail Shoemaker was much
pleased to hear of the increased diligence
manifested in storing grain. It is a mission
placed upon us which we should strive to
fulfill to the best of our ability. Was
thankful that the Prophet Joseph had been
impressed to organize the Relief Society,
but that we be diligent if we expect to re-
receive the blessings pronounced to the
faithful.
	Sister Shoemaker said that President
McAllister had expressed a wish that the
Relief Society make some carpet for the
Temple, which she was sure would be ac-
complished.
	Sister Cox made closing remarks. Spoke
of the necessity of cultivating the gift of
faith, and of the marvelous escape of the
Utah boys in the battles, at Manila, which
she considered largely due to the prayers of
the Saints in their behalf. 
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “We thank thee O, God for a
Prophet.” Benediction by A, L. Cox.
	ALVIRA L. COX, Cor Sec.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING

	Semi-monthly meeting held November,
26th, 1898, in the 14th ward hall, President
M. I. Horne presiding, opened by singing,
“Let those who would be Saints indeed;”
prayer Sister Brown; singing “Zion stands
with hills surrounded;” Minutes read and
approved. President M. I. Horne said,
“this is a proving day and a pruning day;
we have our liberty, our choice, our agency,
we can serve God or not; if we attend to
our prayers and our duties we shall not go
astray, so said Joseph Smith, “Satan has
great power in deceiving and leading the
people away.” Exhorted all to be careful
of seducing spirits. Spoke of the suffer-
ings of Paul the Apostle how he had been
tried, said she felt well and thanked all for
the love expressed by her sisters on her
birthday, she thanked the Lord that He
had blessed her in raising her children and
begged all young mothers to ask God con-
tinually for His support to help them fill
their missions as wife and mother. Spoke
of the good seed we might sow day by day,
if we live as God wished us too. An-
nounced that the first Saturday every three
months would be Relief Society conference
and next Saturday was the appointed day.
Sisters Peterson, Liddle, Waterfall, Mary
P. Silver, Jones, Barton and Irvine bore
testimony of God’s goodness to them and
said many good things, in appreciation of
the blessings of the Saints. Congregation
sang, "Arise O glorious Zion.”
	Counselor Bathsheba Smith spoke of the
pernicious habit of smoking, thought we
might influence boys we meet, to avoid the
use of the tobacco, felt parents should rule


with kindness, and love. Sisters Ellis,
Cooper and others each spoke a few
words and bore their testimony.
	President Horne said we must expect
persecution, our Savior told us this, but we
should all be thankful that the knowledge
of the Gospel cannot be taken from us.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sang
Doxology, Benediction.
		JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY IN OMAHA.

	The members of the Omaha branch of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints met Oct. 25, 1898, at 3 p. m., at the
home of Sister Clara M. Fredricksen, 1604
No. 29 St., Omaha, Nebraska, for the pur-
pose of organizing a Relief Society. There
were present Apostle Franklin D. Richards,
Sister Jane S. Richards, first counselor in
the general presidency of the Relief Society,
Emmeline B. Wells, general secretary,
Josephine Richards West, Bishop Peter
Barton and Ellen A. Barton of Kaysville,
Utah, Elder J. L. Hatch, president of
Omaha branch, Elders R. E. Yeates and
Daniel Mackay, Sisters Mary M. Miller,
Mary E. Blixt, Addie S. Stone, Ida A.
Peterson, Anna K. Gregerson, Caroline C.
E. Peterson, Mary M. Weeks, Clara M.
Fredricksen, Elizabeth Hover, Caroline S.
Tromler and Anna B. Olson.
	Meeting was called to order at 3 o’clock
p. m. by Elder J. L. Hatch. The hymn
which begins as follows was sung: “How
firm a foundation.” Prayer by Elder R. E
Yeates. The hymn which begins “Now
let us rejoice” was sung. The meeting
was then presided over by Apostle Richards.
	Sister Richards expressed her joy and
satisfaction in being present with us today.
Referred to the time when the society was
organized with but few members, in the
days of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Then
they endured many hardships, being sur-
rounded by mob violence; subsequently
finding a peaceful home in the valleys of
the mountains the society was reorganized
by President Brigham Young, and has
spread and grown until now a society is
found in almost every branch and ward of

[Column 2]
the Church, numbering in all about thirty
thousand sisters. Sister Richards said Sis-
ter Zina D. H. Young who now presides
over the society in all the world, would be
pleased to hear of an organization in Omaha
where they suffered so much years ago.
“Although few in numbers you will not re-
gret being organized or miss the time spent
in the performance of duties. Meet together
as often as possible, once a week or once in
two weeks. Your principal duty will be
to care for the poor and needy, to adminis-
ter to the wants of the sick. Follow the
example of the Savior who cared
for all that were in need. At-
tend to those in need of assistance whether
they are of the house of Israel or not.” A
vote was called showing that all the sisters
present were in favor of being organized.
	Bishop Barton then spoke. He was
pleased to be present on such an occasion
and endorsed the remarks of Sister Rich-
ards. As a Bishop in one of Zion’s wards
he could appreciate the work of the Relief
Society. He said, “The sisters can do
more for the sick than the brethren, and I
have told the sisters in the ward where I
live that we could not get along without
them.” Said he often attended their meet-
ings and rejoiced at seeing the good they
accomplished. Related the saying of James
how faith and works go together. Bless-
ings were pronounced upon the Omaha
sisters by Brother Barton, in taking up
their work as a Relief Society.
	Sister Ellen Barton then added her testi-
mony. She had felt strange in Omaha un-
til meeting with the Saints on Sunday and
enjoying with us the spirit of the Gospel.
She spoke of the love and strength of spirit
it imparted to the sisters to work unitedly,
and the good that could be accomplished by
their doing the will of the Father. Refer-
ence was made to the sewing meetings the
society have at home, and how the poor
were provided with quilts, etc. She asked
the Lord to bless the sisters, and said she
knew they would find the work a pleasure
and of great benefit.
	President Richards said his feelings had
been expressed by the previous speakers. It
was with pleasure and thanksgiving that
he met with the branch of the Church in
Omaha. The object of the organization
about to be effected was to do good in time
of sickness and misfortune. The Church is
not to support us, but we must work to
build up the Church. The Relief Society
was not organized or brought into existence
to make offices for some one to fill, but for
the perfecting of the people and for the re-
lief of the distressed. It is not only a mat-
ter of dimes and dollars, but to administer
with kind words and deeds to the afflicted
of all people, for we are all of one royal
family. If we live up to the covenants we
have made with God He will bless us as
we need and we will realize some benefit of
the spirit. One of the prophets has said we
realize the gifts after trials. Said the next
step would be to select officers. He named
the officers necessary and said we wanted
those whose heart and soul was in the
work, and those who could work unitedly.
A person is not fit to be in office until he is
willing to be a servant. He mentioned the
necessity of keeping strict accounts and rec-
ords of the proceedings. He asked God to
direct in the selection of officers.
	Sister Richards related some of her ex-
perience in regard to office and thought
that had it not been for the work it seemed

[Column 3]
her duty to do in the Relief Society she
would not be alive today. She said we
were not here for our good looks but to be-
come good. The sisters were then given
the privilege of selecting one of their num-
ber for a president. Sister Weeks nomina-
ted Sister Addie Stone but she declined.
Caroline Tromler named Mary M. Miller
for that position. Sister Miller expressed
willingness to do her duty. Mary E. Blixt
made the motion that Sister Miller be sus-
tained as president, which was seconded by
Mary M. Weeks. The question was then
voted upon in the affirmative by all pres-
sent. Sister Miller chose Mary E. Blixt
as her first and Addie S. Stone as her second
counselors these names were put before the
meeting in their proper order and were sus-
tained by unanimous vote Sister Clara M
Fredricksen and Mary M. Weeks were
named for the secretaryship but for accept-
able reasons each declined. Ida A. Peterson
was then nominated for secretary and was
elected by united affirmative vote.
	Caroline C. E. Peterson was chosen and
voted in as treasurer of the society. Annie
K. Gregerson was unanimously sustained
as assistant secretary.
	Sister Richards then made a few remarks,
instructing the officers to go ahead with the
work, the counselors to share the responsi-
bility with the president Thought it
would be a great help to the association to
take the “Exponent.” The teachers of the
society may be selected at the next meet-
ing. Asked the Lord to bless us all. Sis-
ter E. B. Wells regretted that she was not
present at the fore part of the meeting,
but some delay in obtaining directions
caused her to be late. She was pleased to
meet the Saints. Called attention to the
blessing the Omaha sisters enjoyed in hav-
ing an Apostle and a Bishop at this meeting.
She recalled the past when she taught
school here nearly fifty years ago. She
told how helpful the Relief Society had
been to the Church and said its power
would increase.
	The officers of the Omaha society were
then set apart to their respective callings
under the hands of President F. D. Richards,
Bishop Barton and Elder Hatch. All present
then sustained each other as members of
the society. Benediction was pronounced,
by President F. D. Richards.
					J. L. HATCH.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“MUSINGS AND MEMORIES.”

	“Musings and Memories” is a volume of
poems entirely of home production, and is
very suitable as a gift for the holidays. The
book is sufficiently elegant in appearance for
any drawing room or library table. It con-
tains three hundred pages and a steel en-
graving of the author. It is for sale at the
office of the “Woman’s Exponent,” Tem-
pleton Builiding, opposite Deseret News
office. Cloth binding, $1.25; dainty cover,
$1.50; morocco, $2.00. Those living out-
side Salt Lake City who might wish to pur-
chase the book should address,
		Mrs. E. B. Wells,
			Templeton Building,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St. 
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1899.	NO 16.


CONTENTS:
	The Boston Tea Party. State Historical Soci-
ety. Fanny C. Loveland Dead—Samantha Ses-
sions. In Memoriam. Ladies Semi-Monthly
Meeting.—J. S. Woolley, Sec. U. W. P. C.—
Aimee C. Schiller, Sec. Sarah E. Carmichael—
Lydia D. Alder. Triennial of National Council.
Golden Wedding Anniversary—Violet Urie. R.
S. Reports. Letter From Santa Rosa—Lucy W
Kimball. Gone to Rest. Reorganization—
Emilia D. Madsen Sec.
	EDITORIAL:—Women in the Legislature. Ten-
dencies of the Age. Editorial Notes. Official
Notice. State Society D. and R.
	POETRY:—Words That Bless—Alofa.


WORDS THAT BLESS. 

TO SISTER MARY A FREEZE.

How oft as we journey on through life,
Does the heart grow weak from its toil and
	strife;
How oft we feel that the heavy load,
Is all too much for the long, long road! 
But a cheering voice in the stillness heard,
Sends strength through the ambient air,
Or a tender thought from a sister’s lips
Makes lighter the cross we bear.

How many eyes in the flight of years,
Are always moist with bitter tears,
Till the fountain of sorrow at last is dry,
And only the pent up soul can cry;
But an earthly angel whispers hope,
Though it seems but an idle dream,
And that hopeful whisper paves the way, 
Through which heaven’s light may stream.

How many discouraged ones there be
Who the sequel of life can so dimly see,
Who faint or falter at every turn,
Finding courage and faith so hard to learn!
To such a beautiful word is given,
A lesson of holy love,
And they who for earth will not brave the
	storm
Will try for the life above. 

There are many others whose stalwart forms
Are bowed and bent with life’s heavy storms;
Of toil they have always had their share,
They are weary now of the part they bear,
To the hearts of these tried, feeble ones,
There's a source of joy untold
In whispers of the deeds of worth
They have done in days of old.

Oh, these words of love! how much they do
To make us better—our hearts more true!
How much they help on the weary road!
How much they govern our last abode!
Yet oft in selfish hearts confined
Are the thoughts which thus might bless, 
And they never render the world more bright,
Nor make its sorrows less.

But the world of hope in which you live,
The words of comfort you often give,
The kindly letters your hand has penned 
To son or brother or distant friend,
Not only brighten the jeweled crown
Which you in heaven will wear,
But help to swell the throng who hope
To meet and love you there.

ALOFA.


[Column 1]
THE BOSTON TEA PARTY. 
	It seemed very fitting that the Massa-
chusettes state society, Daughters of the
Revolution, should observe the 125th anni-
versary of the “Tea Party day” at the old
Hancock Tavern in Corn court. For in
the very room where the plot was concocted
so many years ago the multitude of guests
was received by the state regent, Miss Sarah
E. Hunt.
	From 2 to 5 o’clock the narrow passage-
ways, the stairways and rooms were
thronged with people, all filled with the
spirit of ’73,if one could judge by their utter-
ances, and all proud of their revolutionary
ancestry.
	The large apartments of the olden time
have been divided up into smaller ones by
partitions, and in several, of these members
of the various Chapters throughout the
state served tea from tables daintily decor-
ated with yellow chrysanthemums and
lighted by buff candles with blue shades.
They wore their hair powdered and dressed
with high shell combs, and over their
shoulders wore kerchiefs in old time style.
	Souvenirs consisting of tiny boxes of tea
tied with ribbons of the continential buff
and blue were given to all the guests. The
ladies of the committee were Mrs. C. P.
Heath, of Lynn, and Miss Mary C. Sawyer
of Wellesley, who were greatly assisted in
their duties by Capt. Wadsworth of the
tavern.

	The room where the guests were received
is a queer old place, though the ancient
rafters are now hidden behind a ceiling of'
plaster. On one of the walls is the follow-
ing inscription: “In this room the Boston
tea party made their plans and dressed as
Mohawk Indians, and went to Griffin
(now Liverpool) wharf, where the ships
Beavor and Eleanor and Dartmouth lay,
and threw overboard 342 chests of tea, Dec.
16, 1773." On other parts of the wall are
quaint old paintings representing the differ-
ent scenes for which the house is famous.
The most remarkable of these decorations is
the old sign bearing a portrait of John Han-
cock, which for many years swung over the
courtyard. The tavern was called for him
in 1780, when he was made Governor.
This sign was blown down a number of
years ago, and is said to have killed a man
passing through the yard. The picture is
somewhat broken, but otherwise the figure
upon it shows quite plainly.
	History credits the old Hancock Tavern
with having been the temporary abiding
place of all the early statesmen and men of
note in the colony. The original house on
the spot was erected as early as 1631. Be-
sides the older worthies the present house
has sheltered Lafayette, Louis Philippe,
Talleyrand and many others.
	In the eventful years preceding the revo-
lution the tavern was a frequent meeting
place of the patriots. Not only was the
throwing over of the tea planned there,
but many other plots were made to discom-
fort the British and help the cause of the
colonies. At one time not so very long ago

[Column 2]
before historians and antiquarians had be-
gun to notice the place and to remember its
ancient prestige, it was familiarly known as
“Bite Tavern,” it is supposed because a
small lunch at a very reasonable sum could
be obtained there.

	On the afternoon of the tea party among
the many guests were quite a number
whose ancestors participated in the original
tea party. Among those was a Miss Treat,
whose grandmother, Helen de St. Pry, was
a god-daughter of Lafayette. She married
Lieut. Treat who was stationed at Castle
island from 1776 to 1798. Another guest
was young Edmund Sears who celebrated
his birthday by attending the reception, for
his ancestors had 125 years before helped to
throw the tea overboard. Other guests
whose ancestors participated in the historic
affair were Mrs. Walter Tower of Melrose,
a descendant of John Spurr; H. G. Hewes
of Braintree, descendant of George Robert
Twelves Hewes; Mrs. J. D. Ronimus, des-
cendant of James Starr, all of the “party”
and Mrs S. Agnes Sprague, whose ances-
tor was of the same notable company.
	Many of these told pleasing anecdotes of
their ancestors, which had been handed
down in the families, and of which they are
deservedly proud. The Fadette orchestra
played.
	There was no attempt at any formal
speechmaking. In fact it would have been
almost impossible to do so on account of the
crowded state of the rooms. Miss Hunt
did say to a little circle surrounding her 
that she believed in the patriotism of work-
ing for one’s country, especially along the
line, of good citizenship, and that next to
the work of the home and the church should
come that of the patriotic societies, which
strive to keep alive the memories of the his-
toric past to inspire the youth to noble ef-
forts and the highest type of life in the
future.
	There was no attempt at decorating the
ancient rooms but in one of them hung an
old lantern which hung for many
years outside the door of the old tavern
	—Boston Herald.


STATE HISTORICAL  SOCIETY.

	The State Historical Society held its
second annual meeting in the lecture hall
of the Templeton building, Jan. 16, Hon.
Franklin D. Richards, president of the soci-
ety presiding. The hall was well filled
and the program was instructive.
	Commencing Mrs. Browning rendered
“Sweet Bird of Spring,” accompanied on
the piano by Spencer Clawson Jr. Prayer
was offered by Hon. O. F. Whitney.
	Governor Wells was not able to be pres-
ent, but in the paper he contributed and
which was read by Hon. O. F. Whitney,
he expressed his sympathy with the work
of the society and pledged his support in
every possible way.
	President Richards delivered his annual
address, in which he reviewed the work of
kindred societies, offered suggestions to
members, and called attention to the great


field of usefulness before the Utah society.
	Dr. J. E. Talmage’s paper, The Material
of History, considered the subject from a
scientific standpoint, and took occasion to
suggest action on the part of the State
against vandalism, which had led to the de-
struction of many important relics of by-
gone ages.
	An address by Mme. Mila Tupper May-
nard upon the Culture Value of History
was able and interesting.
	Don C. Maguire dealt with the Pre-historic
Races of the Southwest, referring to the evi-
dence of such that had come under his per-
sonal observation throughout an area of
country extending from the Gulf of Cali-
fornia on the southwest, to the Snake River
on the north. In it he referred to explor-
ing work done by himself and Professor
Montgomery formerly of the State univer-
sity, among the mounds and caverns at
Paragoonah in Iron county, where they un-
earthed some twenty-five human skeletons,
of persons who undoubtedly had met death
by violence ages ago. Mr. Maguire said the
State was full of such evidence and he re-
garded the Historical Society as having a
great work before it.
	Benediction was pronounced by C. R.
Savage, after which the society elected
officers for the ensuing year, F. D. Richards
being re-elected president; Isabella Cameron
Brown, vice president; J. R. Letcher, re-
cording secretary; J. T. Hammond, cor-
responding secretary, L. S. Hills, treasurer;
Mrs. Antoinette B. Kinney, librarian.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


FANNY C. LOVELAND DEAD.

	Many of the friends and acquaintances of
Mrs. Fanny C. Loveland will be sorry to
hear of her death. She died Sunday morn-
ing, November 20, 1898, at Bountiful of
old age and general debility. She had been
confined to her bed about three months and
ailing all last summer. She was Carlos
Loveland’s mother, and sister to Lucina
Sessions, Samantha Willey, Rosoline Dustin,
and stepmother to Emarett Sessions.
	Deceased was born in the state of Ver-
mont on May 11, 1816, thus making her
eighty-two years of age. She was but a
mere girl when her father’s family joined
the Church and moved to Geauga county,
Ohio, to join the Saints there in 1836. At
the age of twenty-one in the year 1837 she
was married to Chester Loveland, who pre-
ceded her to the great beyond by about
fourteen years.
She passed through all the persecutions
of Kirtland, Ohio, Jackson county, Missouri,
and Nauvoo, and endured the hardships en-
countered crossing the plains, and arrived
in Utah with her husband in 1850, and lo-
cated in Bountiful. She buried a son four
years old while on her way across the plains.
	She went with her husband and others
who had been called to settle Carson Valley
where they remained from 1856 to 1857.
After her return she resided most of the
time in Bountiful with the exception of a
few years that she resided at Brigham City
and Calls Fort respectively.
	When the Relief Society was organized
at Brigham City August 28, 1866, she was
chosen second counselor to Sister Lenora
Morley. After Sister Morley’s death she
was appointed first counselor to Harriet
Snow, which position she held until the or-
ganization of Box Elder Stake.
	She was the mother of eight children,


four of whom are still living, three boys
and one girl.
	Funeral services were held at the Sessions
House, Tuesday afternoon at 4 o’clock.
The speakers were Elders C. R. Jones
Madsen, of the Salt Lake Temple, Joseph
L Holbrook, W. W. Willey, D. O. Willey,
Thomas Wadoups, Israel Call, Judson Tol-
man and John A. Waite. The remains were
taken to Calls Fort Wednesday morning,
where funeral services were held for the
benefit of friends and relatives who could
not be present at those held in Bountiful,
and the remains were laid to rest at that
place. Quite a number of relatives and
friends accompanied the remains to Calls Fort
Deceased has been a subscriber for the
“Exponent” from its first publication un-
til her death. She was an earnest worker
for the cause of truth, possessed an excel-
lent character and was especially noted for
being a “peace maker.” Her prepossess-
ing face wore a sweet smile which scattered
sunshine and happiness to all who mingled
with her.
			SAMANTHA SESSIONS.


IN MEMORIAM. 

SARAH FAULKNER.

	On Monday, Dec. 5, 1898, Sister Sarah
Faulkner passed over to the great beyond.
	Sister Faulkner was born in Chadwick,
Worcestershire, England, Feb. 6, 1830,
and was sixty-eight years old. She came
to Utah in 1853 and has labored very faith-
fully ever since, not only being an active
member in all her Church duties, but she
desired to aid in making our city attractive
as far as lay in her power, by beautifying
her surroundings.
The deceased was a teacher in the Relief
Society for many years and she did her
work faithfully in sun or shine. She was al-
ways charitable and kind to the needy. Mrs.
Faulkner was a very estimable lady and
leaves numerous friends to mourn her death
besides one son, her other five children
having gone before her. The cause of her
death was a malignant cancer, from which
she has been a sufferer the past two years. 
	ELLEN KELSEY, Sec.
Springville, Utah.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Ladies’ Semi-monthly meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall Saturday, Dec.
17, 1898, Counselor E. J. Stevenson presid-
ing in the absence of President Horne.
Singing, “For the strength of the hills we
bless thee.” Prayer by Counselor Bath-
sheba W. Smith. Singing, “Welcome
best of all good meetings.” Minutes read
and approved.
	A sister, name unknown, bore a faithful
testimony. Counselor E. Webb spoke of
the spirit of meekness and love and said we
should dedicate ourselves to the Lord in
the morning and evening, be careful and do
our duties.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder said this was the
first of the year when our hearts were
drawn out to one another, and our thoughts
are upon Him whose birth we celebrate.
She did not think we could realize the love
He bears for His children. He was an ex-
ample of humility and obedience. “Let us
love one another and help one another.”
Another sister spoke on honest tithing and
donations.

[Column 2]
	Sister Martha A. Morris who had just re-
turned from Europe spoke a few moments.
She said she had been to get genealogy,
but she had testified of the Gospel where-
ever opportunity offered. She had borne
her testimony to her relatives forty years
ago and she bore it again to them and told
them she would leave them without excuse.
	Sister Jane James rejoiced in living in
these days. Sister McMaster thanked God
that she had been permitted to come forth
in this generation. Thought it was our
business to secure God for ourselves and
not criticise others.
	Sister Jane A. Albrand spoke of the way
God cares for His children,. He preserves
them on land and sea. Sister Jane Powell
said she had walked many miles to preach
to her relatives but not one of them had
been so favored of the Lord as to accept
the Gospel but herself. Said she and her
daughter had been privileged to go into the
Temple and do the work for over one thou-
sand. 
	Sister Kiddle bore testimony to the power
of prayer and spoke of the great desire she
had to come to Zion, and how thankful she
was to her Heavenly Father she had been
permitted to do so.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke of the great
wrong we did in criticising those placed
over us. Said her idea of a Latter-day
Saint was to be kind and not get angry, pay
your tithing, donations and Relief Society
donations, go to your meetings promptly,
be careful of your criticisms, watch and
pray and do good to all. Wished all a
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
	Counselor Stevenson said since we had
last met Sister Sarah M. Kimball had passed
away, she was one of the board of these
Saturday meetings. She wished all a Mer-
ry Christmas and a Happy New Year and
invited all to bring friends enough with
them to fill the house next meeting. An
invitation was sent to all the Relief Society
presidents and counselors to attend the
closing exercises of Dr. Robert’s nursing
class.
	Sister Morris and congregation sang “O,
my Father.” Meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Benediction, Mrs. M. W. Wilcox.
			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


U. W. P. C.

The U. W. P. C. met in the pleasant
rooms of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, Friday eve-
ning, Dec. 30, 1898. After opening prayer
by Lydia D. Alder the secretary called the
roll, responses being given by quo-
tations on Christmas from favorite authors.
It was moved and seconded that all busi-
ness be dispensed with for the evening, ex-
cept the proposal of the name of Miss Nina
Winslow Eckart as a member of the club by
Mrs. E. B. Wells. Miss Eckart was unan-
imously elected a member.
	The following interesting and carefully
prepared program was rendered: Poem on
Christmas, Mrs. M. A. Freeze. Christmas
story, Mrs. E. B. Wells, also one by Mrs.
Ruth M. Fox. Christmas reminiscences
by Mrs. Maria Francis. Poem, Mrs. L. D.
Alder. Several beautiful musical selections
were rendered, after which the hostess and
her charming daughters served delicious re-
freshments. A short time was spent in
social converse after which the club ad-
journed to meet in the new year of 1899,
Jan. 31, at 7:30 in room 208, Templeton.
	AIMEE C. SHILLER, Rec. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SARAH E. CARMICHAEL.

	As lofty mountains whose crests ever
glisten with eternal snow hear strange and
weird music not sung by the sleepers in the
valley over whom they tower in grandeur
and majesty, so with the poet who hears
music in the floating wind whisperings in
the forest; to whom the sea tells its wonder-
ful secrets, seeing glory in the sunset, feel-
ing peace in the moonlight and intuitively
understanding the melody of birds.
	Like the chords of a finely strung instru-
ment is his soul. A rough wind jars its
music; an unskilled hand produces discord
which the careless never heed, yet to the
mind so delicately attuned a rude shock is
ever the result. The poet is also a dream-
er. The fleecy clouds piled high up in the
heavens are castles to him, wherein dwell
the children of his fancy. Sometimes they
sail away in waters deep and blue; some-
times climbing the shining hills which but
reflect the glories of the City Golden; some-
times as swans sailing on and on over the
rippling waves of a great sea, till low down
the horizon they are lost to view where all
things seem to end.
	Such a beautiful mind was Sarah E.
Carmichael’s. Born in Long Island, but
early coming to Utah when only a few scat-
tered houses marked the site of its present
principal city. In the lowly walks of life,
education but limited, to her inspired soul
the Bible was an open book, its lore her de-
light, even as the sky so richly painted
with varying sunsets, reflecting over the
Great Salt Lake like the glory of burning
worlds hanging high over the mountains,
the changing panorama fading away, the
gorgeous amber and gold, to paler, softer
tints as the day-god sinks to rest where the
line of water and sky meets. A throb of dis-
appointment falls coldly on the heart that
sight can go no farther. A child of Nature
she read from her wonderful book, under-
standing her secret laws intuitively, know-
ingeven more than she taught her.
	She needed not to go to Switzerland to
see the majesty of God displayed in her
wondrous snow-clad mountains, her wild
scenery, her ravishing sunsets. No! as a
child she accompanied her parents in a pro-
saic way across the wild plains and rugged
mountains, that here her poetical soul might
see and feel the glories so famed in that far
of land. Like an imprisoned bird regaining
its freedom are her bursts of song; deep,
well nigh unutterable her sympathy; and
the spirit of prophecy falls heavy on her
heart, as the clouds of the future, drawn
slightly aside, the stern hand of Fate re-
veals a dark river on whose banks she cries
for a prayer, that her boat may be safely
guided over its broad bosom.
	As her years increased so was she shy
and deeply sensitive. Out of tune with
her surroundings, not harmonious with her
family, to whom she belonged only by
birth, this child of thought sighed for the
companionship that she had never known.
	At the age of eighteen she began sending
some of her verses to the Deseret News for
publication. At first the genuineness was
doubted; people wondered that so gifted a
writer lived among them, yet to them un-
known. Friends began to gather around
her, and she was sometimes spoken of as
the “Lily of the Valley.” Among others
her songs touched the heart of Dr. William-
son who was stationed here as an army sur-
geon, and from a feeling of interest

[Column 2]
bloomed the beautiful flower of love. They
plighted their vows at the altar in 1867,
against much kindly advice from the friends
of both.
	In 1866 while they were dreaming their
love dreams, some of the doctor’s friends
and admirers of the poetess collected and
published a few of her choicest poems, a
copy of which has been read by the writer.
	It was fondly hoped by her friends that
under these new and happy conditions her
songs would soar higher, grander, purer
and be as much more beautiful as heaven is
than earth.
	But alas! for dreams of fame or love!
This brilliant and gifted mind went out
even as a lamp to utter darkness. The
surging, dark river had engulphed it! And
oh, sad is the spectacle of a loved one living
yet dead.
	The sorrowing husband of a year accept-
ed with resignation the blank life stretching
out before him; his brightest hope could find
no fruition this side of the grave. And his
life became like a beautiful poem telling of
devotion, patience, long watching and soli-
tary prayer. All earthly power was brought
to aid in her restoration, but to no avail.
By his side he decided she should remain,
under his own care. So for twenty years,
and even till he was called to cross the
bright river of which she wrote, he was
true to his charge. Some of their dreams
were realized. A wedding trip to Ohio,
then a short visit to California, whose beau-
ties enchanted her and she wrote,

Cheer for the queen of the Western wave!
			California!
Where the sunbeams walk on a golden pave,
And the moonlight hides in a silver cave,
			California!
Where the day that comes to this land of ours.
Finds the brightest gems and the rarest flowers,
Where the lingering day when it must depart,
Leaves the last red pulse of a broken heart,
			California!
	This visit over then to their home his
thoughtful love had provided for her where
she still lives, never knowing that the great
love of a lifetime still burning on its altar
has gone forever from earth, leaving her a
widow who knows not of her great loss.
	His was a grand and noble nature. Lov-
ing little children dearly he made them his
friends, always speaking so kindly to them.
Thus I remember him in the Long Ago.
	One of her friends, Mary V. Young, who
also was my friend and has herself long
since crossed over the river, told me the sad
story, pointing out to me the house where
Miss Carmichael passed her girlhood days.
Often we spoke of her, musing over the
wreck of such a promising life. After her
husband’s death the last poem written by
his gifted wife was found pinned over the
heart whose weary beatings were soothed at
last.
	To know no loss, no pain, no hope, such
is her life. Yea, the ways of God are in-
scrutable and past finding out; but the light
of eternity will reveal the secrets, the de-
signs and the conditions of this life.
	I would that here she might sing a new
song; and I fancy that over on the other
shore she will change the words of the old
poem for new ones and say,

Down by the river,
The bright flowing river,
	That flows to eternity’s sea;
I kneel to the Giver,
To God the Good Giver
	Whose love is ever o’er me.

[Column 3]
Not cold is it, nor dark is it,
But glad as my heart it is—
	Swift flowing river sublime—
Many ships come over it,
Gladly sail over it— 
	This strange, sad river of time.

Now down by the riverside
The golden sand riverside
	Thank God for my life and me!
You have prayed for us, prayed for us
And solemnly said for us
	“God guides them safe over the sea.”

Calm is the rivertide
The bright, golden rivertide
	That shall give my lover to me.

O’er the wide river
The cold rolling river
	That ever flows on to the sea,
I shall greet my fond lover
My true fond lover,
	Who ever is waiting for me.

And over the river
The smooth flowing river
	Where my lover is waiting for me, 
We’ll praise the Good Giver,
Our God the Good Giver
	Through ages unknown of eternity.

	It is to be regretted that her book has
gone out of print. The Stolen Sunbeam,
The Wounded Bird, Faith, President
Lincoln’s Funeral, with California are
among her gems.
			LYDIA D. ALDER.
	December, 1898.


TRIENNIAL OF NATIONAL COUNCIL

	The National Council of Women of the
United States will hold its triennial in
Washington, D. C., at the Universalist
church, corner of G. and Tenth streets,
meetings commencing February 12 to 18,
1899. There will be ten public sessions
and two very important business meetings,
besides Sunday services.
	At this triennial of the National Council
new officers will be elected for the next
term of three years, and the subject of the
International Council in London, England.
which is to be held the last week in June
of this year, will be an important feature of
the work to be considered.
	The National Council of Women of the
United States is composed of the great organ-
izations of women in the United States and
naturally such organized membership makes
the council a powerful agent in any work it
undertakes for the good of the country.
	Ladies intending to visit Washington
during the winter should go down in time
to attend the meetings of the triennial of
the council.


Gov. Roosevelt has ridden rough-shod
over the susceptibilities of the New York
“Antis.” This is the first time the Governor
of New York has recommended woman suf-
frage in his message, but in Massachusetts
it has been a frequent occurrence. Secre-
tary of the Navy, Long, was Governor of
Massachusetts for several terms and always 
recommended woman suffrage in his mes-
sage to the Legislature. Among other Mass-
achusetts Governors who have done so
were Govs. Claflin, Washburn, Talbot,
Butler, Ames and Greenhalge. These
gubernatorial recommendations do not have
much influence on the action of the Legis-
lature but they call attention to the subject
and stir up much wholesome discussion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $S2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p.m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter. 

SALT LAKE CITY JANUARY 15, 1899.


[Column 1]
WOMEN IN THE LEGISLATURE.

	The Legislature of Utah convened in the
City and County Building on Monday,
January 9. Its members are nearly all
Democrats, in fact all who have been elec-
ted from this county. It is a matter of un-
favorable comment here and elsewhere that
only one woman should have been elected
this term. Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon in
the Senate was elected two years ago and
was fortunately “a hold over.”
	It is strange and regrettable that in a
state where there are nearly or quite as
many women voters as men, that so few
were nominated. It proves how strong the
old traditions and prejudices are against wo-
men in public life.
	At any rate women do not congregate up-
on the corners of the streets and other con-
spicuous places to talk politics and bet on
elections or nominations. The two women
who are at present members, are both very
capable, conscientious and well educated,
and know something of Utah and its needs.
They are equal in intelligence to the men;
perhaps some members who have been in
several successive Legislatures may be a
little better versed in technicalities, but
in the opinion of the writer these ladies
know enough of Parliamentary usage to
preside over the House or the Senate and
would give more grace and as much dig-
nity to the office. Meanwhile we shall see
what comes to pass. The selection of a
United States Senator will be a problem
not easily solved where there are so many
candidates; and it maybe a little difficult to
choose from the number, five already and
“a dark horse” in the background, but
women as a rule have quick perception
and are gifted with intuition and will most
likely make as few mistakes as men (Heaven
preserve them from making more.) At
any rate the trial is being made in the suf-
frage states, though hardly a fair beginning
with so small a number. The women who
have the ballot should not hesitate to begin
at the beginning and attend the primary of
their own ward or district in sufficient num-
bers to make themselves a power and do
some of the nominating, and until they
have courage to do this the cause will not
have very great impetus.
	The “eternal womanly” so much praised
deters women from making very rapid
strides towards a reformation in politics.
As if it were not womanly and dignified in
any case to try and better the conditions of

[Column 2]
the city, county or state where one resides!
Faith without works when one is surround-
ed with dangers that threaten destruction,
is not likely to be very efficient.
	If a turbulent stream of muddy water
were leaping and raging in one’s onward
way one would not hesitate to strike out
boldly to prevent its further progress, in
whatever manner seemed possible. The
women of today who have agitated the 
rights of the ballot see dark clouds in
the horizon of the future, in fact the turbu-
lent stream of immorality is making tremen-
dous strides, shut one’s eyes to the fact as
one may. And all this work cannot be ac-
complished at the fireside, where the found-
ations are laid. Mothers teach virtue, hon-
esty, integrity and uprightness in the home;
the boy or youth goes out into society and
into the wide, wide world and what hap-
pens? Many broken-hearted mothers
know. It is not perhaps possible to have
an ideal civilization with all the adverse in-
fluences of the age to combat with, but it is
possible that better laws and their enforce-
ment might be beneficial, and certainly the
experiment is worth trying. Women have
ideas of matters in business and domestic
life that are helpful and acceptable to men,
why may they not have practical ideas of
government and law-making? And they
are not asking for the kingdom nor for the
whole commonwealth, only to share in the
struggles for right and partake of its
benefits.
	Women are told by “the lords of crea-
tion” to be domestic and submissive like
their grandmothers in the past, but they
need to be reminded there were women
in the past whose names are handed down
in history as illustrations, who rebelled
against the injustice of the laws and condi-
tions as their descendants do in the present
day.
	Read the early history of New England
and you find many expressions of determined
opposition to the existing laws. The moth-
ers of the country surely have some rights
that should be recognized more than they
have been in the past. Abagail Adams of
revolutionary fame, in writing to her hus-
band upon this subject “even threatened to
foment rebellion unless the rights of her
sex were secured, and declared women
wouid not hold themselves bound to obey
any laws in which they had no voice or rep-
resentation.”
	It is true women have influence in many
directions, and yet the ballot is more potent
still, for it means power. It is not expect-
ed that woman’s ballot alone can revolution-
ze the country, but the exercise of suffrage
in the hands of the best men and best wo-
men must of necessity produce a manifest
difference and a decided change a few gen-
erations hence, or perchance sooner; at any
rate it is pleasant to hope so. But it will
take moral courage to stand for the highest
ideals in government, though one cannot
but believe it helps even to work for better
conditions, though defeat and not success
may often be the result, eventually the
right will triumph if persistent warfare
against wrong doing is waged and main-
tained.
	The women of these intermountain states
are privileged as no other women are, and
appreciating this they should also accept
the responsibilities it implies, and carry the
burden if such it be, hopefully and march
on to victory—the triumph of right over
wrong, light over darkness better, condi-

[Column 3]
tions for the masses and a more enlightened
humanity.


TENDENCIES OF THE AGE.

	There never was a time in any age of the
world when there was such a tendency to
higher education and in every direction to-
wards progress and development along the
lines of activity, practical, mental, scienti-
fic and inventive in many, and indeed in al-
most all parts of the world, as at the present.
One must be very wide awake to keep in-
formed even on the lines that lie most in
one’s own practical way of thinking and
doing.
	There is less awakening in the spiritual
life of the people, the tendency being more
material than otherwise; the money ques-
tion has seemingly swallowed up much of
the religious nature of the world at large.
Wealth more than aught else is fast be-
coming, if it has not already, the most
potent influence in even religious circles.
Indeed money may be called the passion of
the age as well as the ruling power, and
“more’s the pity, and pity ’tis that it is so.”
	To be sure money or some exchange of
value or barter is necessary in this worka-
day world, yet when men and women have
this morbid craving for money, it seems to
absorb every wholesome element in one’s
nature and change the entire character.
	If a restraining influence could be
brought to bear upon character thro’ the
higher thought and education of which we
hear so much, that would tend to modifi-
cation in this direction, what a different
world this would be. Out of all the soci-
eties and organizations for information and
for equalizing conditions there seems no
combined force strong enough as yet to
overthrow the money power. Are the peo-
ple about to succumb to a materialism that
will tend to degrade and despoil the inheri-
tance of virtue and true nobility that has
been the proud boast of American civiliza-
tion?
	To guard against the spirit of extrava-
gance and luxurious living, even though
one has the wherewith to obtain it, is in-
deed commendable, especially if the means
is used to build up industries that will give
employment to the workers who are com-
pelled to live by wages, or salaries as the
case may be.
	Brigham Young’s ideas in this respect-
were almost ideal. To live simply and to
devote means to fostering industries that
would build up the community and lay a
foundation for generations yet to come or the
emigrants from other countries, that all
might have something to do.
	It is appalling to contemplate the future
of young people reared in indolence and
luxury, accustomed to the gratification of
every want, and without thought of any of
the sober realities of life; living for pleas-
ure and vanity. That ever work should be
considered degrading is a mistake. That
all are not adapted to the same sort of work
is true, and parents should not (in our
opinion) compel children to follow a pur-
suit that is particularly distasteful. But if
there could be something of a return to
agricultural pursuits in this Western land
it would be a blessing. Every farmer
might be a gentleman; subduing the earth 
is a commandment and there is yet much to
be done in this direction. What are our
boys to do when they are grown? is a
question often asked and seldom satis-


[Column 1]
factorily answered. Those who strike out
into new territory and take up new land
making homes by dint of hard labor and
grow up with the community become in
many instances not only founders of cities
and towns, but often if capable and reliable
are chosen to fill important positions of
trust and emolument.
	Speaking of farmers as gentlemen, a cir-
cumstance came under the notice of the
writer which illustrates the fact. Visiting
in New England at a country farm house a
census taker called one morning to make
inquiries for his report. Among other
questions was the one curtly put, “What is
your occupation?” “A gentleman farmer,”
was the reply. “A gentleman farmer!”
said the interlocuter as he surveyed the
man from head to foot, “can’t I give you
some other title?” “No sir,” was the
only answer. Evidently being satisfied he
would get no further information he left
the house.
	Afterwards Mr. H. explained that every
clerk or wage-earner was of the opinion
that men who tilled the ground or were
engaged in agricultural pursuits could not
be classed as gentlemen; and it gave me
new thoughts upon the subject. Mr. H.
had been a Prof. of mathematics, a civil
engineer, had even been a member of the
Legislature of his state, but preferred in
his later years to retire to his country farm
and discard all other pursuits. Neverthe-
less he still intended to be considered a
gentleman by such young men as the one
referred to, and a gentleman he was indeed
though he did more actual work on his own
farm than half a dozen hired men, for in
these days some of the laboring men have
all flocked to the cities and large towns. A
striking contrast to the New England of
half a century ago.
	It is a well known fact that the greatest
men America has produced have been
raised upon a farm and accustomed to the
hard work of the farmer’s son. To be a
land owner was the pride and ambition of
the early settlers of our country.
	Homes of their own for the common peo-
ple was the sentiment Brigham Young
tried to inculcate and practically to demon-
strate in these mountain vales during the
period of the early settlement here. Who
does not know that the home is the centre
from which springs the best in life and in
government. Not from hotels and board-
ing houses, nor from transient occupancy
of "houses for rent”—whether they are
spacious mansions or neat cottages or
miserable hovels. The home which is our
own is the ideal one, the children enshrine
it in their memory, “the old home,” and
“childhood’s home,” are subjects for the
poets. If every young man in the com-
munity would strive for a home of his own,
how much it would do towards a better and
more permanent standing in the welfare of
the state.
	The writer can never forget with what
laudable pride she spoke upon the subject
during her first visit to Washington twenty
years ago. And how the ladies of the Con-
vention listened to women owning their
own homes and paying their own taxes.
The president of the United States himself
listened carefully to the statement, and his
gentle and amiable wife, how interested
she felt in this simple fact. But, alas, how
different, now!
	Simplicity of living is a virtue. Not
miserliness, but true economy which so
few people in this age seem to practice.

[Column 2]
Plain living is healthful and happifying.
There is, there must be room somewhere
for everybody to live honestly and respec-
tably; better far to launch out into new
fields and begin at the foundation than to
fight ones way in the great cities along the
crowded thoroughfares, where there are
hundreds of applicant with whom to com-
pete.
	The tendency to “single blessedness,” so
miscalled, instead of family life, is on the
increase and has reached even to these val-
leys. It is injurious to manhood and wo-
manhood and contrary to the laws of nature
and of God. “Multiply and replenish the
earth” is the first commandment given to
man in the Holy Scriptures, and has never
been countermanded. The inclination to
postpone marriage until late in life or alto-
gether is a growing evil, and should be dep-
recated certainly among Latter-day Saints.
That girls are extravagant and require
liberal settlements beforehand is scarcely a
good excuse. What girls and women long
for most and look forward to is love. And
honorable marriage with true love is what
the girls have a right to expect, and that
makes up for lack of this world’s goods.
“Love in a cottage” is where contentment
abides much more securely and far more
generally than in a palace, the old-fash-
ioned poet “Cotton” writes,

Though fools spurn Hymen’s gentle powers,
We, who improved is golden hours,
	By sweet experience know,
That marriage, rightly understood,
Gives to the tender and the good,
	A paradise below.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	We have been shown today the drawing
for a very artistic map of the the pioneer
route of the Mormon people journeying
from the city of Nauvoo to the valley of
the Great Basin. The work is to be litho-
graphed and placed upon the market. It
will be suitable for every home and for
public buildings. A pocket edition is also
to be prepared and issued.
	The agents of the “Exponent” in all the
several wards and Stakes of Zion, and also
individual subscribers indebted for the
paper are urgently requested to settle all
old accounts at the earliest date possible.
This becomes an absolute necessity on ac-
count of the change that takes place in the
management of the Deseret Evening News.
The “Exponent” will not be sent to any
subscriber after January 1899, unless pre-
paid. All delinquents will as soon as pos-
sible receive written notices of bills due, in
addition to the printed matter. 
	One of the notable features of the past
year, 1898, and one in which women are
greatly interested is the document of the
Czar of Russia toward a proposed treaty
for universal peace, and coming as it did
from the most autocratic of rulers it does
seem indicative of a world-wide movement
for the arbitration of all serious difficulties
among nations, and a general tendency to-
wards the amicable settlement of hostilities,
and finally the result may be a ceasation of
warfare altogether, for which good time
coming all who desire the true welfare of
humanity should be grateful.
	The clubs of Salt Lake City have com-
bined their efforts and have succeeded in
getting started a “Utah Free Traveling

[Column 2]
Library.” It is one of the best philan-
thropic, educational benefits that could
come to those living in isolated communi-
ties where good books are not obtainable.
All the clubs in the Federation are expected
to contribute their quota of money and of
books. The work is in the hands of a
committee of ladies, of which Mrs. Helen
D. Moore is chairman.
	Woman’s Work, is a Southern monthly
magazine published in Montgomery, Ala-
bama, business manager, Evelyn Fitz-
patrick. The journal aims to disseminate
the best ideas of club women. It is being
ably conducted and promises, if one can
judge from the few numbers that have been
issued, to fill a void in the South, where
few women have as yet entered into the
spirit of club work that is permeating the
whole country. We are grateful to Wo-
man’s Work for mentioning the “Exponent”
and in connection with it the silk industry
in Utah. May Woman’s Work become a
power for good in the land, and the women
of all sections join hands and co-operate for
the good of all, casting aside the geographi-
cal lines of distinction, until by custom they
shall become obliterated in mind.
	Mrs. Hannah J. Bailey of Winthrop
Centre, Maine, is en route to California and
will pay Salt Lake a visit on her return trip
in March. Mrs. Bailey is the treasurer of
the National Council of Women of the
United States, and (of course) one of the
General Board of that great society to
which the National W. R. S. and the Y.L.
N. M. I. A. are connected. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young and Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor both
being vice presidents of the council by vir-
tue of their positions as presidents of these
National associations. Mrs Bailey is a wo-
man of great executive ability, and will
find a loving welcome in our city from the 
ladies who have such pleasant remembran-
ces of her genial manner and kindly face.
Mrs. Bailey manages a large manufactur-
ing business in Maine of which her husband
was proprietor previous to his decease a
few years ago; she is also superintendent
of the World’s W. C. T. U. and associated
in other organizations of public interest.
We trust her brief stay among us will be
a pleasant leaf in her wayside notes of her
journey from the coast.


OFFICIAL NOTICE.

	The Stake secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety in all the several Stakes of Zion and of
missions or branches of the Relief Society
where Stakes are not organized, are hereby
requested to send statistical and financial re-
ports for the entire year of 1898, to the
general secretary, room 208 Templeton 
building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.


STATE SOCIETY D. AND R.

	A State Society of Utah of the Daughters
of the Revolution was organized on Wed-
nesday, November 16, 1898, in the office of 
the “Woman’s Exponent,” room 208,
Templeton building, in this city. The 
names of State officers elected were pub-
lished in our columes in the issue of Dec-
ember 1, 1898.
	On Friday December 16, the famous Bos-
ton Tea Party day, a meeting was held at
the residence of Mrs. Maria V. Dougall,


where a suitable and interesting program
for the occasion was successfully carried
out. Light refreshments were daintily
served to the D. R. and guests.
	Friday, January 6, there was a meeting
at the residence of Hon. Alice S. M. Horne,
member of the House of Representatives of
the State Legislature of Utah now in ses-
sion, but owing to adverse circumstances
the adoption of the Constitution was post-
poned, also the reading of the inaugural
address of the State Regent, Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	Monday, January 16, the D. R. Society
met in the Templeton and the regent gave
her address and the Constitution was unani-
mously adopted. A State Council was
appointed, and committees on Press and
Printing and Decoration.
	The members of the Council are Mrs.
Carlie Young Cannon, Mrs. Isabel M.
Whitney Sears, Mrs. J. P. Murdock Farns-
worth, Mrs. Sarah Farr Smith, Mrs. Myra
Young Rossiter, Mrs. Ella Wilcox Hyde.
COMMITTEE ON PRESS.
	Mrs. Alice S. M. Horne, Miss Catharine
Wells, Miss Claire Clawson.
ON DECORATION.
	Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie, Miss Mabelle
Snow, Mrs. Ella Wilcox Hyde.
	The next meeting of the society will be
held in the Templeton, room 208, on Fri-
day, February 16, at 3 p. m., when busi-
ness pertaining to the annual meeting will
be transacted, and it is desirable all members
should be present and participate in the pro-
ceedings. It is the intention of the society
to incorporate shortly under the laws of the
State.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GOLDEN WEDDING ANNIVERSARY.

 “Marriage is the life-long miracle.
The self begetting wonder daily fresh.”

	On Friday evening, Dec. 30, 1898, a
grand programme and picnic party was
given in the ward hall to do honor to
Brother Richard R. and Jane C. Birkbeck
on the fiftieth anniversary of their wedding
day. It was an impromptu affair, but,
however, a great number of guests assem-
bled to enjoy themselves with the aged and
highly respected couple. Numerous selec-
tions were rendered, both musical and
otherwise, and after all had feasted sumptu-
ously a great deal was gathered up and dis-
tributed to the poor the next day. All
who took part proclaimed it one of the best
parties of the kind ever given in Cedar City.
Grandma Birkbeck, as she is known by all
the young people, although in her seventy-
seventh year was on nearly every floor, and
seemed to dance as sprightly as many a
woman scores of years her junior. During
the festivities a purse was made up and
something over twenty dollars was presen-
ted to the honored couple with the compli-
ments and best wishes of all present.
	Though never having enjoyed the great
and glorious blessing of children, yet they
are loved and respected by all who know
them and have caused many a ray of sun-
shine to penetrate where all seemed dark-
ness, and made hearts beat with renewed
hope and gladness where sadness reigned
supreme. Many are the homes that have
been made happy by their visits to the sick
room.
	Sister Birkbeck has filled various positions


in the Relief Society, and at present holds
the office of Stake treasurer.
Respectfully, 
	VIOLET URIE,
		R. S. Sec., Cedar City.

“O, the music and beauty oft lose their worth,
When one heart only joys in their smile;
But the union of hearts gives that pleasure its
	birth,
Which beams on the darkest and coldest of
	earth
Like the sun on her own chosen isle;
It gives to the fireside of winter, the light,
The glow and the glitter of spring—
O, sweet are the hours when the fond hearts
	unite,
As softly the years in their innocent flight
Glide away on a motionless wing.”

	The “Exponent” adds hearty congratu-
lations, and ardent wishes for the eternal
future of such a union. May all that truest
love could ask for this venerable couple be
theirs, of health, happiness, prosperity and
an abundance of love in this world, and
these with the hope in their souls of a
glorious resurrection of lives throughout
the endless ages of eternity is the desire of
the writer.—E. B. W.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.

ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	Believing our sisters would like to know
what the Relief Society sisters are doing in
far off Arizona, I will give you a short ac-
count.
	Our conference convened on Dec. 3, 1898,
President Elizabeth Layton presiding.
There were present of the priesthood
Apostle Abraham O. Woodruff, President
Andrew Kimball, Counselors William D.
Johnson and Charles M. Layton.
	The speakers touched on many impor-
tant subjects, viz. storing of grain, building
a Stake granary, as we have on hand 995
bushels of grain; on tithing, fast donations,
supporting the Church school, necessity of
attending to prayers, looking after the poor
and needy, comforting the widows and or-
phans.
	It was decided that on the evening of
Dec. 6, we have a Stake reunion in
the form of a dance and repast. There
were over three hundred present and all
partook of a sumptuous supper. Apostle
Abraham O. Woodruff and Elder Seymour
B. Young were present to add to the dig-
nity of the occasion. The dancing began
at seven p. m., and closed at twelve p. m.
The proceeds of the party which were
$65.00 were used to defray the expenses of
two sisters who were in Salt Lake City
taking a course in obstetrics under Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp.
	The health of the people in general is
good, though this has been the coldest
winter witnessed in the last fifteen years.
The weather at present is delightful.
		SELENA PHILLIPS, Stake Sec.
	Thatcher, Ariz., Jan. 7, 1899.
MURRAY BRANCH, S. C. WARD.
	The annual meeting of the Murray branch
of South Cottonwood ward Relief Society
was held in the Scandinavian hall, Oct. 28,
1898, President Margaret Carruth presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “Now let us
rejoice,” etc. Prayer by Bishop J. S.
Rawlins. Singing “How firm a founda-
tion.” Minutes of the previous annual

[Column 2]
meeting read and approved  The annual
report was read and accepted.
	President M. I. Horne of Salt Lake
Stake spoke words of cheer and comfort to
the sisters and bore a strong testimony to
the truth of the Latter-day work; encour-
aged us also to be diligent in our duties,
look after the poor, comfort the sick, and
for the mothers to watch over their children
and teach them to be pure and virtuous.
Spoke on the signs of the times. Asked
the Lord to bless the sisters.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon urged the
sisters to be faithful in attending their
meetings, said it was both a duty and a
pleasure, and to be punctual in meeting
at the time appointed, that the angels might
be waiting Spoke also upon humility and
kindness, to forgive each other. Said let
us try and bear our trials and be thankful
to the Lord that we have a place with His
people.
	President Pixton of Taylorsville was
glad that she was a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ and asked the Lord to bless
all the Relief Society. Told the sisters to
attend to their meetings and they would
get their reward.
	President Rawlins of the South Cotton-
wood ward Relief Society said she desired
to continue faithful in this great work, and
told the sisters to prepare for an eternal ex-
stence.
	Bishop Joseph S. Rawlins and Brother
Charles Holm thanked the president for in-
viting them to speak. In their remarks
they encouraged the sisters in their good
work, and stated that the Relief Society
was a great aid in assisting them in taking
care of the poor.
	President Carruth spoke of the newness
of the society, knew the sisters were good
and faithful in the society work. Thanked
the brethren and sisters for meeting with us.
	Singing “Guide us O, Thou Great Jeho-
vah.” Benediction by Brother Charles
Holm.
		MARGARET CARRUTH, Pres.
SANDWICH ISLANDS.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of the Hawaiian mission held in the Laie
meeting house on Saturday morning, Oct.
8, 1898.
	Promptly at 9:30 the Hawaiian sisters,
together with the sisters from Zion, formed
in line and marched to the meeting house.
Meeting commenced at 10 a. m., President
Alice R. Woolley presiding. With her on
the stand were her assistants, Elizabeth C.
Williams, Jennie P. Musser, Ellen C. Cole,
Anna Kaulukou and Kapu Kou. Meeting
opened with singing “Joy to the world.”
Prayer by Luukia Pono. Singing on page
200 of the Hawaiian hymn book. Minutes
of the previous April conference read and
approved.
	President Alice R. Woolley spoke a few
words of welcome and encouragement, and
felt thankful to our Father in heaven for
His great blessings to us, that we were per-
mitted to meet together again under such
favorable circumstances, and hoped the
spirit of the Lord would be with us that we
may be able to receive the necessary instruc-
tions that would be for our best good at the
present time. Felt to rejoice greatly in the
work of God and urged all to be faithful
and seek diligently for the spirit of the
Lord that it may be our constant companion.
	Sister Kapo Kou spoke on the benefits of
the Relief Society and the purpose for
which it was instituted.


[Column 1]
	The Hawaiian society was then represen-
ted by one of its officers. “The Lord is my
light” was sung very nicely by the Misses
Adalade and Madaline Fernandez.
	Sister Kaulukou gave a favorable and in-
teresting report of the work done in com-
pany with Sister Garff on the island of
Maui, and spoke of the Relief Society as or-
ganized by Joseph Smith. An encourag-
ing report of Laie society was given by
Sister Nainoa.
	Sister Kekuku and daughter sang "O,
my Father,” with pleasing effect. Sister
Annie Kou reported her labors in company
with Sister Kapili on the island of Hawaii,
spoke of the great interest that was taken
in some of the branches of that island.
	Sister Jennie Mnsser encouraged all to
remain steadfast in the work of God, and to
appreciate His blessings to us here on earth.
	Alemai was represented by the president
of the branch. Conference adjourned until
one o’clock in the afternoon. Singing from
the Hawaiian hymn book. Benediction by
Sister Nakoi.
	Afternoon session: Singing by the
Hawaiian choir “Truth has risen.” Pray-
er by Sister Kamaka Eleakala. Singing
"Hail to the brightness,” etc. Favorable
reports were given from eight branches of
the society of this and the adjacent islands,
all were in a favorable condition.
	Kekuewa Nakuaau spoke on the restora-
tion of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Sister
Minerva Fernandez gave a biographical
sketch of President Wilford Woodruff.
	Sister Cole said we had met to gain spirit-
ual strength. We all have much work to
perform. Woman’s mission here on earth
is a great one, her influence is great and
therefore all should try and exert an in-
fluence for good. Mothers should teach
their children the Gospel and set worthy
examples before them at all times. Her re-
marks were interpreted by Elder J. B.
Hooper.
	Sister Hattie Davis reported her labors in
connection with Sister Woolley on the is-
land of Kauai, the majority of the branches
of the society on that island were in a favor-
able condition.
	Sister Elizabeth C. Williams expressed
her pleasure in meeting in the Relief Soci-
ety conference, and exhorted all to search
the scriptures for light, for we cannot any
of us be saved in ignorance. Encouraged
the sisters to attend to their duties and put
themselves in a position that they can
claim the blessings that are promised unto
the faithful.
	The general officers of the Relief Society
of Zion and of the Hawaiian mission were
presented and unanimously sustained.
	President Samuel E. Woolley was pleased
with the good instructions that had been
given, and hoped we would make good use
of them in the future. Encouraged all to
continue in the good work.
	President Alice R. Woolley felt very
much gratified with the meetings today,
knew that the spirit of the Lord had been
with us for we had had a time of rejoicing
together. Spoke of her visit to the island
of Kauai, felt encouraged with the pro-
gress the sisters were making there. En-
couraged the young ladies to join the Re-
lief Society and assist in rolling on the
great work of God.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing from the Hawaiian hymn book.
Benediction by Elder Lewis R. Jenkins.

	Thinking perhaps that a few words

[Column 2]
from the missionary sisters on these islands
would be of interest to the readers of the
“Exponent,” we will endeavor to give a
brief sketch of our labors.
	There are at present six sisters laboring
in the Hawaiian mission, and we are striv-
ing in our weak way to accomplish the
purpose for which we were sent. The Lord
has greatly blessed us while laboring in
these lands and we are thankful that we are
able to spend a portion of our time in His
vineyard, in striving to raise the people to a
higher plane of morality. Our labors con-
sist in taking care of the Mission Home,
working in the Relief Society, Sunday
School, Mutual Improvement Association,
Primary Association; also teaching the
children music. We are striving to ac-
quire the Hawaiian language and feel
grateful that the Lord has blessed us with a
portion of it. Peace and contentment is in
our midst and at the dawning of another
new year everything seems to be in a pros-
perous condition.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion and
the cause of truth we are,
	Your colaborers[-]
ELIZABETH C. WILLIAMS, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM SANTA ROSA.

	I have taken the “Exponent” from the
beginning of its existence, and I shall be
glad to know how much is due.
	By a letter received today I learn of the
death of Sister Staines, Brother Goddard
and Brother C. M. C[-]nnon. The latter I
did not know personally, but presume he
is a young man. The other two I can re-
joice to know that like our dear Sarah M.
Kimball they are freed from the suffering
of this mortal body.
	I seem to hear the echo of the Halleujah!
The hearty, joyous welcome! The shouts
of victory of the tried and true as they pass
one by one to the realms of eternal bliss.
	I sincerely trust that every one will put
hes shoulder to the wheel and save the
friend of woman, the dear “Exponent”
from shipwreck from the carelessness of its
officers, or the subordination of its crew.
	I have a large chest full of “Exponents”
which I hope to have bouud some day.
Of course there are many other choice selec-
tions and letters there, too, which I hope to
haul over and glean from if life holds out
and other cares do not accumulate.
	They may spoil me here, as grandma’s
are scarce and all hands are anxious to help
make my stay pleasant, and profitable to
themselves from the questions asked.
	I very much regret that there is not a
branch of our Church here, but I am
pleased to find friends whom I met long
ago who have a spirit of inquiry, and have
called to welcome me back again.
	President Woodruff must have been in-
spired when he presented Bancroft’s His-
story of Utah to the free library of Califor-
nia. It seems like an arrow of light
through the thick darkness, and has the
effect of dispelling the ignorance of many
people and their sympathies are aroused
for the injustices done our people, how far
this extends I do not know as all classes are
not in a condition to reach this knowledge;
but I find that those who are feel that this
is a reliable work.
	Trusting that you may receive timely
aid, I remain,
			Your loving sister, 
				LUCY W. KIMBALL


GONE TO REST.

	Sister Sarah Ann Sweet and Rawle died Dec.
12th, 1898, the cause of death being general
debili[-]y, she was born in Bristol, England July
20th, 1822. She was the mother of nine children,
three of whom survive her, she leaves a husband
eighty-four years old, one son and five daughters,
thirty-two grand-children and five great grand-
children to mourn her loss She was correspond-
ing secretary of the Morgan Stake Relief Society
twenty years, and secretary of South Morgan
Ward ninteen years; both offices she held at the
same time and filled them with honor. She died
firm in the Gospel with the hope of a glorious
resurrection.
				Your Sister in the Gospel,
							LYDIA RICH.
	MORGAN, Dec. 19th, 1898.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas our Father in Heaven has seen fit in
His Wisdom to call home the spirit of our worthy
and beloved sister Marie Olsen, who was born
August 9th, 1831, in Store, Lima, Veile, Amt. Den-
mark. We feel to give a few items of her life and
labors. Sister Olsen embraced the Gospel in the
old country, and emigrated to Utah in 1853, leav-
ing a good home and pleasant surroundings for
her religion. She passed through the hardships
incident to settlers in Utah at that early date,
settling first in Salt Lake City for a short time,
from there moving to Sanpete Co. where she
resided for many years, until the Castle Valley
Country began to be settled, when h[-]r husband
and herself were called to move to Castle Dale,
Emery Co., where she remained until death re-
lieved her of that dreadful disease, dropsy,
September 5th, 1898. She was President of the
Castle Dale Relief Society about four years.
	Resolved, that we the members of the Castle
Dale Relief Society hold in grateful remembrance
t[-]e aid she exercised in our Relief Society by
service contribution and counsel.
	Resolved, that we strive to hold fast to the
sacred covenants made with the Lord to the end,
and acknowledge his hand in all things as did
Sister Olsen.
	Resolved, that one copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved husband, one be placed on
the Relief Society Record and one be sent to the
“Woman’s Exponent” for publication.
			CAROLINE LARSON, Prest.
			KATHINKA ANDERSON, Sec.


REORGANIZATION.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle at Brigham City, Dec. 13, 1898,
President Susannah P. Booth presiding.
Singing “Know this, that every soul is
free.” Prayer by President Mary Jansen.
Singing “Sweet is the work my God, my
King.” Minutes were read and approved.
	Sister Theone Michelson reported the
Scandinavian society, said, “We can com-
fort and strengthen one another when we
possess the right spirit.” Sister Charlotte
Boden of the 2nd ward said, “We are all
laborers in the same cause. therefore, we
trust one another. I feel proud to be one
with such good sisters.”
	Sister Christina Jensen of Mantua said,
“We have buried one of our most faithful
sisters lately and one last winter, we miss
them so much. I think we couid not get a
better president than Sister Booth.” Sister
Mary Harding of Willard said, “Let every
mother instil in her daughter’s mind to live
a pure life, obedient to those placed over
her.
	Sister Mary Watkins of the 4th ward said,
“I cannot help feeling a little lonely today.
I miss our beloved president, Sister Olivia
Widerborg, but she is happy, my only de-
sire is to live to be worthy to meet my par-
ents and friends who have passed away.
	Sister Fanny Graehl said, “Although we
miss Sister Widerborg it was right she
should go to rest and Sister Booth is just
the right one in her place. I pray the sis-
ters who are called to preside over the


[Column 1]
Stake may have our faith and prayers that
they may be comforted and able to fill their
holy calling.” Sister Annie Wixom said,
"I like to uphold the officers for I know
they need it. I have belonged to the Re-
lief Society from the beginning. I was in-
timately acquainted with Sister Morley,
Aunt Harriet and Sister Widerborg. I
think there never were three better women.
I am pleased to mention their names and
speak of their good works.
	Sister Mary Jansen of the 3rd ward said,
Sister Widerborg has left us, but I think
she has always been trying to be a true,
faithful Latter-day Saint, and her counsel-
ors were true and faithful in their calling.
There is a great deal done in the Relief
Society; we marvel at it.”
	Sister Harper of Calls Fort said, “I hope
I may live so that there may be a place for
me where those who have left us are."
President Susannah P. Booth said, “I have
great sympathy for my sisters from the
settlements trying to come here at ten
o’clock. I know the Lord will not forsake
me if I do my part, and I know He will
help my counselors if we work in unison
and love. There is just as much responsi-
bility on the members as on the officers.
May we again associate with Sister Morley,
Aunt Harriet and Sister Widerborg, those
we have loved and labored with. I wish
those present to stay to luncheon provided
by the 3rd ward.”
	Singing “Now let us rejoice." Benedic-
tion by Bishop Jensen of Bear River City.
	Afternoon session After opening exer-
cises Sister Thorne of Three Mile said, “We
are trying to do all the good we can for the
poor. I ask the Lord to help us live hum-
ble and near to Him.” Sister Sadie Han-
son said, “I feel grateful and acknowledge
the hand of the Lord that I am able to
walk to this stand.” Spoke of her serious
illness and reported Beaver Dam ward.
	Bishop Jensen of Bear Lake City said,
“I feel it quite an honor to represent our
Relief Society. I have labored together
with the sisters for a little more than seven-
teen years. It has been a labor of love,
they have always been on hand voluntarily
to assist in building up the kingdom. We
have a president eighty-two years old."
Reported the ward and said, “These sisters
have not been called by President Clawson
nor President Snow, but directly by the
Lord, and I know it, and  if they will be
faithful they will succeed.”
	President Rudger Clawson said, “I am
not very well and if it was not the first
meeting after your reorganization and other
sundry reasons, I would not have been here
today.” Counseled the Relief Society to
hold short meetings. He then presented
the officers of the Stake Board as follows:
Susannah P. Booth, president; Emilia D.
Madsen and Louisa Peters, counselors;
Annie Wixom, recording secretary; Emilia
D. Madsen, corresponding secretary; Fanny
Graehl, treasurer; Eugenie S. Pierce, assis-
tant secretary. Vote was unanimous.
	President Clawson continued: “Sister
Widerborg was a woman of great faith, she
was always in line with the priesthood, she
was very successful in her labors. The sis-
ters have a little surprise for her counselors,
Sister Wright and Sister Reese, who have
labored so faithfully. We feel to bless
them, the Lord will not forsake them, the
sisters want them to know they are remem-
bered, we will remember them. I feel to
bless them in authority of the holy priest-
hood, in the name of God."

[Column 2]
	Brother Clawson could not stop blessing
Sister Wright and Sister Reese. Sister
Mary Wright and Sister Zilla Reese were
each presented with a handsome rocking
chair as a present from the sisters of Box
Elder in acknowlegement of their labors.
	Sister Mary E. Wright said, “This sur-
prise touches a tender cord, my sisters. I
feel well in the Gospel, we have enjoyed a
feast today, the spirit of the Lord has been
here. It is well with Sister Widerborg, al-
though I miss her.” Sister Zilla Reese
said, “My brethren and sisters I feel to ap-
preciate the kindness you have shown us to-
day. I do miss Sister Widerborg because
she was so kind to me. I feel to continue
in our good labor, and pray the Lord to
bless us each and everyone.”
	Sister Emilia D. Madsen was the next
speaker. She gave vent to her appreciation
of the Relief Society. Counselor Louisa
Peters said, “When I reflect on the sisters I
am called to succeed I feel to pray that I
may follow in their footsteps.
	President Kelley said, “I believe there is
a feeling of kindness in every heart. I be-
lieve you all endorse that which has been
done here, all who do raise your hand.”
(Unanimous) “I do not feel capable of ex-
pressing my feelings. I was acquainted
with Aunt Lenora Snow Morley[-] as noble
and sweet a woman as ever lived. Then
Aunt Harriet was so energetic and interest-
ed in the Relief Society, always working
for it. Then the Lord raised up another
in Olivia Widerborg, who was just as good
as the others. Now we have a new presi-
dency and I have no doubt that they are
just as able to carry out this labor. I am-
pleased that you have honored the former
counselors, that their labors are appreciated
and their hearts are made glad, their hus-
bands’ hearts are made glad in the spirit
world, Brother Wright, Brother Reese and
Brother Harvey Pierce are rejoicing to see
their wives honored.”
	President Watkins said, “I realize the
spirit of God is here, there is a feeling of
affection and love.” Spoke of the labors
of the Relief Society, holding up the hands
of the priesthood, storing up wheat for the
time of scarcity. "What a glorious work
you are engaged in my sisters! Who can
tell the result? In your labors of love seek
the counsel of those who are placed over
you and be ready to assist these new officers
as they are ready to assist the priesthood."
	Bishop Jensen said, “I have known these
sisters who have been elected for a long
time. This is a good association and a
great blessing to us, no one knows this bet-
ter than the Bishops. I was much pleased
to see what was done for the sisters, I ap-
preciate them, I know they have earned it.
I am glad we have so many good sisters.
May we be united in doing good.”
	President S. P. Booth said, “I do not
feel capable to represent the Stake, I hope
in the spring we will be able to visit all the
settlements. I think we cannot do too
much for those who have labored so long
and so faithfully. I know the Lord will
not forsake me if I do my part. I pray the
Lord to bless you all, my sisters, with the
spirit of your calling.”
	Congregation arose and sang “The spirit
of God like a fire is burning.” Benediction
by Brother Crawford.
EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Better not tell your neighbor your
troubles unless you are willing to listen to his.


Mrs. Alice Parker Lesser attorney at law
of Boston, Mass., has been admitted by
Judge Putnam to practise in the U. S. Dis- 
trict and Circuit Courts; also in the U. S.
District Court of Appeals.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Miss
Susan B Anthony have addressed an open
letter to President McKinley, asking that
suffrage may be granted to the women of
Hawaii upon the same terms as the men.
	Miss Maud Claiborne of Glenwood, Utah,
has been elected to a primary position in
the Des Moines schools at an increased
salary, with promise of a further increase.
But the Glenwood board were not willing to
let her go. She was too good a teacher to
release. From the teacher’s standpoint we
are sorry for Miss Claiborne, since such op-
portunities do not come often; but she is to
be congratulated upon the evident appreci-
ation of her work both at home and abroad.
	Mr. Edward W. Bok, editor of the Ladies
Home Journal, says: “The platform woman
has never been a credit to, but ever a blot
upon American womanhood. I make this
emphatic statement from a personal knowl-
edge of the homes which these women
leave behind when they go to their meet-
ings.” It would be interesting to know
whether young Mr. Bok was ever enter-
tained in the home of Mrs. Julia Ward
Howe, Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, Mrs.
Lucy Stone, Frances E. Willard, Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Ballington
Booth, Susan B. Anthony, or any of the
most distinguished “platform women” of
the United States?


Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not[-] open
one NOW.
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
WILFORD-WOODRUFF, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 27. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1899. No 17.


CONTENTS:
	Thanks—L. L. Greene Richards. Minutes of
First Relief Society. Virgin City, Dixie—Emily
A. Strat[-]on In Memoriam. Red Cross Nurses—
Margherita Arlina Hamm. Woman’s Exp nent—
M. Rachelle Mehette. A Beautiful Response.
Perseverance at Centerville—Mary Rockwood.
Semi-Monthly Meeting—J. S. Woolley, Sec.
The Silk Worm and its Silk John Dean Obitu-
ary. Re ief Society Report. Council of Women.
	EDITORIAL:—A Wonderful Age. Triennial
National Council. Official Notice. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—The New Year—Nina Winslo[-] Eck-
art. Grandmothers Treasure—M. Rock. Reflec
tions—Nina Wins ow Eckart.


THE NEW YEAR.

Tho' clouds of disappointmen
Ma g[-]ther in life's sky,
Do not despair, the sun is there,
And soon will be so bright and fair,
And then those dearest hopes of thine
Like sunlight in thy path will shine;
For now the new year brightly dawns,
The old year with its fear is gone,
	And joy awaits thee.
Look not backward with regret
To the faded year—
See, the star of hope is bright,
It will guide thee to the light,
Better days are yet in store,
Tho’ the days that are no more
Like a tender flower lay,
Folded in the heart away,
	But joys awaits thee.
NINA WINSLOW ECKART.


GRANDMOTHER’S TREASURE.

It is not o’er flashing jewels in their velvet
	beds reposing,
Stiff brocades, or priceless laces worn in
	days of long ago
That poor grannie loves to linger, when the
	day is gently closing,
When the b eeze, with softer cadence mur-
	murs rhythmical and low.
And she reads no tender phrase o’er and o’er
	with failing vision
From the batch of yellow letters safely hid-
	den from the sun;
And her hands hold no love token of that by-
	gone time elysian
When the world grew fairer for her, and her
	heart was lost and won.
But she sits amid the shadows, all alone and
	happy-hearted,
In a strained and broken voice she croons a
	tender old refrain
That she sang with fuller compass in the
	days that are departed,
As she rocks the wooden cradle where her
	children all have lain.
And the babe that ne’er grew older in the
	years in which her brothers
And her sisters men and women grew,
	smiles up in infant glee
To the face above t[-]e cradle[-] and with laugh
	and shout the others,
Sundered now by eagues of ocean, seize
	her hands and climb her knee.


And that roughly-painted cradle by her lov-
	ing heart is treasured,
And its quilt of silk[-]n patchwork is with
	love and sorrow kept
Not the crowns of king or kaiser, not a store
	of gold unmeasured,
Could part grannie from the cradle where
	her babies all have slept!
M. Rock


[Column 1]
MINUTES FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY.

MASONIC HALL, NAUVOO, ILLINOIS.
Lodge Room, March 17, 1842.
	Minutes of the first organization of the
Relief Society as prepared by Miss Eliza R.
Snow, from the original minutes taken at
the meeting. A preliminary meeting was
held at the residence of Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, recently deceased, at which meet-
ing Miss Eliza R. Snow was present, and it
was decided at that time to consult Presi-
dent Joseph Smith about an organization:
accordingly the meeting was called by his
appointment.
	Elder John Taylor was called to the chair
and Elder Willard Richards appointed secre-
tary. Meeting commenced by singing
“The spirit of God like a fire is burning."
Prayer offered by President John Taylor.
	It was then moved by President Joseph

[Column 2]
Smith and seconded by Mrs. Cleveland that
a vote be taken to know if all present were
satisfied with each person present and will-
ing to acknowledge them in full fellowship
and admit them to the full privileges of the
institution about to be formed. Vote was
unanimous.
	President Joseph Smith addressed the
meeting to illustrate the objects of the soci-
ety; that the society might provoke the
brethren to good works in looking to the
wants of the poor, searching after objects of
charity etc., to assist by correcting the mor-
als and strengthening the virtues of the
community and save the Elders the trouble
of rebuking, etc. He proposed that the sis-
ters elect a presiding officer to preside over
them and let that presiding officer choose
two counselors; that he would ordain them
and let them preside over the society just as
the Presidency preside over the Church,
and if they needed his instruction, ask him
—he would give it from time to time. “If
any other officers are needed to carry out
the designs of the institution let them be
appointed and set apart. The minutes of
your meetings will be precedents for you to
act upon.” He then suggested the propri-
ety of electing a presidency to continue in
office during good behavior, or so long as
they should fill the office with dignity, etc.
	Motioned by Mrs. E. A. Whitney and
seconded by Mrs. S. Packard that Mrs.
Emma Smith be chosen president; passed
unanimously.
	On suggestion of President Joseph Smith
the president elect made choice of Mrs. Sar-
ah M. Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann
Whitney for counselors.
	The ceremony of ordination was then per-
formed, when President Joseph Smith re-
sumed his remarks, giving instruction how
to govern themselves in their meetings,
what order to observe, how to regulate dis-
cussions, etc., etc., and concluded by say-
ing, “Do not injure the character of any
one; if members of the society shall conduct
themselves improperly deal with them and
keep all your doings within your own
bosoms, and hold all characters sacred.”
	It was then proposed that Elder Taylor
vacate the chair. President Emma Smith
took the chair with her counselors.
	Elder Taylor moved, seconded by Presi-
dent Joseph Smith, that the society go into
an investigation respecting what name it
should be called. Motion carried unani-
mously.
	President Joseph Smith and Elders John
Taylor and Willard Richards favored the
name Benevolent Society; Mrs. Cleveland
moved that it be Relief Society, and Mrs.
Emma Smith and Miss Eliza R Snow
argued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice.
The discussion was lengthy and interest-
ing but the decision of the majority was in
favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice, and the
name selected and voted upon was Female
Relief Society.
	(The prefix female was many years ago
discarded by popular vote throughout the
entire organization.)
	By unanimous vote Miss Eliza R. Snow
was elected secretary and Miss Phebe M.


Wheeler assistant secretary, and Miss
Elvira A. Cowles treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith said, “I now de-
clare this society organized with president
and counselors, according to Parliamentary
usages, and all who shall hereafter be ad-
mitted into this society must be free from
censure and received by vote.”
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting say-
ing he was much gratified in seeing a meet-
ing of this kind in Nauvoo; his heart re-
joiced when he saw the most distinguished
characters stepping forth in a cause which
was calculated to bring into exercise every
virtue and give scope to the benevolent feel-
ings of the female heart. He rejoiced to
see this institution according to the laws of
heaven; his prayer was that the blessings
of God and the peace of heaven might rest
upon this institution henceforth.
	President Jos. Smith gave a five dollar gold
piece to commence a Relief Society fund
and said, “Whatever I do hereafter for
charity, I shall do through this society.”
	Sarah M. Kimball gave $1.00. Elizabeth
Ann Whitney 50 cts., Emma Smith $1.00,
Sarah M. Cleveland 12½cts., Willard Rich-
ards $1.00, Elder John Taylor $2.00.
	The names of the sisters present at this
meeting were Emma Smith, Martha Knight,
Elvira A. Cowles, Sarah M. Cleveland,
Phebe Ann Hawkes, Margaret A. Cook,
Desdemona Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth Jones,
Leonora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow, Sophia
Packard, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sophia
Robinson, Philanda Herrick, Phebe M. Wheel-
er and Sophia R. Marks.
	After singing “Come let us rejoice in the
day of salvation” prayer was offered and
meeting adjourned for one week.


THANKS.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	It seems to me that Ada Patterson de-
serves the heartfelt thanks of the women of
Utah for the fair-minded and sensible way
in which she has explained the present em-
barrassing situation we are placed in by the
election of B. H. Roberts to Congress. I
think, too, we should acknowledge the
liberality of the Mecca, a Denver magazine,
in publishing Miss Patterson’s fair state-
ment concerning us.
	She gives us credit for at least standing
by our rights, and of maintaining such
heroism as should be sufficient to stop the
voice of unthinking people who would have
it appear that to the imbecility of the wo-
men of Utah may be charged the election
of the man who fiercely opposed their being
allowed the privilege of voting.
	Miss Patterson says: “The unembroid-
ered truth is that the women of Utah were
opposed to Mr. Roberts. A large majority
of the woman vote was against him. The
minority voted for him because they were
loyal to Democracy, rather than to Mr.
Roberts. * * *
	He opposed permitting women to vote.
* * He lost as every one knows; but the
women never forgave him. Had his elec-
tion depended upon the votes of the women,
he would have met a Balaklava on election
day."
	Thus our friend, Miss Patterson, has
nobly spoken out in behalf of the wo-
men of Utah. And as one of them I feel
to return her sincere thanks.
L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


WOMANS EXPONENT


VIRGIN CITY, DIXIE.

Dear Exponent:
	Perhaps a few words from our little town
will be acceptable to the “Exponent.” The
past year has been a very dry one. In
August we had a very severe storm which
did but little good and a great deal of harm.
	The health of the people as a rule is pret-
ty good. Our Relief Society is doing a
good work taking care of the sick and look-
ing after the worthy poor and feeling after
the aged.
	On the 29th of December, 1897 and ’98
the Relief Society held what is called an
old people’s party. A committee being
appointed for the occasion all met at one
o’clock when tables were spread the length
of both sides of the hall with a feast of the
blessings of the earth. After dinner there
was a program rendered satisfactory to all.
In the evening [-]ll took part in the dance,
the aged having the preference, which made
the hearts of the older to feel glad, and
those of the younger to feel free and happy.
	On the morning of January 11, the peo-
ple awoke finding a happy surprise, the
snow being about three inches deep, the
first wet storm for the winter, which made
everybody rejoice.
	Hoping this will meet your approval and
wishing you a happy new year I remain,
Your sister in the Gospel,
EMILY A. STRATTON.


Mrs. F. S. Lee, Representative from Ar-
apahoe County, presided over the deliber-
ations of the Colorado House of Repre-
sentatives on the afternoon of January 11.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
ABIGAIL GLOYDE HYDE.

	Abigail Gloyde Hyde was the daughter
of Charles Gloyde and Abigail Pratt. She
was born in Cunnington, Hampshire Co.,
Massachusetts, November 16, 1820; this
was also the birthplace and early home of
the poet William Cullen Bryant.
	Her parents were among the early fami-
lies of New England. Her grandfathers
Gloyde and Pratt both served their country
with honor in the Revolutionary war	She
spent her early years at home with her
parents and attending school. Her father
was engaged in the manufacture of woolen
goods, being the proprietor of a woolen
factory. At the age of eighteen Abigail
left school with a good common school edu-
cation and commenced work in the factory.
She had early been taught the habit of in-
dustry and was a constant worker through-
out life. She also had a veneration for
sacred things, but was quiet and unpreten-
tious in her disposition. She heard the
Gospel as revealed by the Prophet Joseph
in her early youth, and was strongly im-
pressed with the truth thereof.
	In 1840 Elder William Hyde performed
a mission in the Eastern states, and Janu-
ary 16 of that year baptized Abigail Gloyde
and two of her cousins, Sarah and Lucy
Pratt. Her mother subsequently joined
the Church. She had a constant desire to
gather with the Saints, but as her father
had not embraced the Gospel she deferred
her emigration until 1859, after her mother’s
death, when she resolved to start alone and
join with the Saints in the Rocky moun-
tains. Her cousin, Sarah Pratt, joined her
in the expedition, and on May 11, 1859,
these two young women left the homes of
their parents and all their pleasant sur-
roundings and started for the gathering
place of the Saints. Sister Abigail’s father
accompanied her fifty miles to Albany, New
York, where they joined a company of
seven hundred Saints presided over by
Elder George Q. Cannon, en route to Salt
Lake City.
	The company chartered a train and
journeyed to St. Joseph, Missouri. Here
they prepared for the ox team journey
across the plains. Sister Abigail having
been very industrious in the woolen factory
had earned and saved several hundred dol-
lars. With a portion of this she purchased
three yoke of oxen and two wagons. One
they loaded with goods the other they used
for riding and sleeping in. The women
might have driven their own team but one
of the brethren desired to do the work for
them in order to procure a ride for his wife.
They had a very pleasant ride over the
plains with which they were much de-
lighted, Sister Abigail walked most of the
way. They were ninety-six days traveling
from the Missouri river, arriving in Salt
Lake valley, October 11, 1859.
	For a month Sister Abigail and her
cousin made their home at Abraham R.
Wright’s, who had charge of the company
crossing the plains. Subsequently they
were taken to the home of Elder Hyde in
Lehi, who had baptized them.
	On January 1, 1860, Abigail and her
cousin were both married to William Hyde
and went to live in Lehi. Subsequently
they went with Brother Hyde to Cache
Valley and were among the first settlers of
Hyde Park, the place bearing the name of

[Column 2]
Elder Hyde and over which he was Bishop
until his death in 1874.
	The first summer they lived in wagons
and tents. Sister Hyde was very indus-
trious during these labors of settling a new
place and cheerfully adapted herself to the
situation. She was the first president of
the Relief Society in Hyde Park and filled
the position with credit and satisfaction for
a number of years, through her entire ad-
ministration. She brought from her labors
in the factory in Massachusetts over seven-
teen hundred dollars, which was very oppor-
tune for those hard times.
	Brother Hyde purchased a carding mill
in Logan and Sister Abigail being very
anxious to earn something to help herself
to a livelihood, and being the only one in
that section who understood carding, went
to Logan and worked in the mill for a
term of years. Subsequently she went to
work in the Co-operative Store in Hyde
Park, and proved herself in this capacity a
most efficient business woman and  was
scrupulously honest in all her transactions.
She continued in this employment for
several years after the death of her husband,
when the store went into other hands. Be-
ing left without employment she went to
Logan City and again took up her abode
six days in the week in the carding mill.
She continued in this labor several years.
	In the former years of her labors in the
carding mill when the business was so
flush that the mill had to run day and
night, Sister Hyde would run the mill from
midnight until noon, when she would be
released by an able bodied man: and thus
for a long time she did the work which was
laborious enough for a strong man, and
which few women could do.
	She was postmistress of Hyde Park for
twelve years, and while absent working in
the carding mill her cousin Sarah, who
lived in the same house, filled the place as
deputy. Her reports and transactions were
always correct, giving the best of satisfac-
tion to all concerned.
	During this busy life of constant indus-
try and hard labor she bore three children,
two sons and one daughter, all of whom
survive her and are active, faithful Latter-
day Saints. The eldest son is now the
Bishop of Hyde Park.
	During the past few months Sister Hyde
was afflicted with paralysis, and passed
peacefully away without a struggle at 1:35
a. m., Tuesday, January 10, 1899. Her
children were all present at her bedside
during her last moments. She leaves two
sons and a daughter, six grandsons and
three granddaughters to mourn her loss.
	Her funeral was held in Hyde Park at
noon, Saturday 14th inst., and was attended
by the family and many loving friends.
Consoling and instructive remarks were
made by Presidents S. M. Molen, Orson
Smith and Elder Matthias Cowley. The
grave was dedicated by Bishop William
Hyde of the 5th ward of Logan, and thus
was laid to rest the remains of one of the
noblest of women, honest, chaste, benevo-
lent, industrious and faithful to the trust
reposed in her throughout life, from child-
hood to the grave. She fell asleep in the
hope of a glorious resurrection. She will
receive a crown of eternal lives in the
resurrection of the just.
						M. F. C.


If a man has no trials and tribulations he
is unable to appreciate happiness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A BEAUTIFUL RESPONSE. 

A very bright little army woman rose to
the occasion well a few days ago when she
was one of the guests at a small luncheon
given at one of the large hotels for some
distinguished New England people. It was
a large affair and in an impromptu manner
a number of toasts were given. In the
midst of it the little army woman with hor-
hor heard some one say:
	“We have among us the wife of an
officer in the regular army, and I think it
is only fitting that she should respond to
the toast ‘The Flag.’ ” The men applaud-
ed and the women smiled encouragement,
and trembling a little as she held up the
glass of wine, the officer’s wife spoke:
	“I belong to a class of women to whom
the flag is especially near and dear. All
day it waves over the roofs of our little
homes in the far frontier, and at sundown
the rustle of its folds, mingled with the
notes of ‘The Star Spangled Banner,’ is
the lullaby of our babies. We know that
it will be the winding sheet of those dear-
est to us. Since the word Santiago has been
written in our hearts I see yet more in this
flag—in its red, the blood of our martyrs;
in the white, the paleness of their ashen
faces: in the blue, the lips set with the
word ‘Freedom,’ and in the stars the soul
that will shine on forever.’’


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 

Salt Lake City, Utah,
			Sunday, Jan. 15, 1899.
Dear Friend:
	In my left hand I hold the last bright
little leaf that has fallen from your balmy
tree, while with my right hand I essay to
trace a few slight veins with the hope that
they may appear, with no unsalutary effect,
on your next leaf when it drops.
	Upon entering your beautiful city last
evening, knowing I had but twenty-four
hours to remain, and that all the daylight I
should spend here would be while the
sacred Sabbath was lulling her children in-
to quiet inactivity, a feeling of disappoint-
ment crept over me. But I had not long to
droop over my misfortunes, for I had scarce-
ly made myself comfortable at my hotel
when dinner was announced. Being hun-
gry I was glad to be seated at table with
the other guests, and not very anxious to
enter into conversation with my entirely
new neighbors until my appetite was some-
what abated.
	The first I remember of speaking was
when a young woman at my right offered
me pickles and I said I would prefer catch-
up. That broke the ice.
	“Are you from the North or the South?”
she asked.
	“From the East,” I answered. “And
yourself?”
	“I came up from the South to attend the
funeral. Suppose you are here for the
same purpose, are you not?”
	“Didn’t know there was to be a funeral,”
I answered. “Whose is it, and when does
it take place?”
	“You did not know that Brother George
Goddard’s funeral is to take place tomorrow
at 2 o’clock, in the Tabernacle! Ah, but
you are a stranger here then! Pardon me,
I had no thought but you were one of our
people.”
	We got on finely after that. My newly
found friend proved to be, I must believe,
a newly appointed guardian angel to con-

[Column 2]
duct me where I might find the door that
will be opened to all humble seekers after
light and truth, if they will but knock.
	She it was, that friend, that angel of
mine, who put into my hand this
First of January “Woman’s Exponent”
with its most wonderful tracings of
your magnificent organization, the Relief
Society, some of the marvelous works of
which are shown in the brief reports con-
tained in that paper.
	But she explained much to me regarding
your people in a way and manner that I
shall hardly find in books or papers, and
she took me with her to the Great Taber-
nacle to attend that most splendid funeral.
	I never can forget what I saw and heard
there, and I never want to. Henceforth I
would like to work for and with those same
Sunday School children, among whom that
grand chieftain of yours, General George
Goddard, has spent so much of his life.
	Your teachers of righteousness are the
most thrilling, soul-inspiring speakers I
have ever listened to, and I have heard the
most eminent and eloquent divines in dif-
ferent parts of the world.
	In making my adieux, I have now but to
say of your wonderful city and people, “The
half has never been told.” And I feel like
adding, “Your people shall be my people,
and your God my God.”
			M. RACHELLE MEHETTE.


Mrs. Mary A. Wright was elected to the
Idaho House of Representatives from
Kootenai County at the recent elections, in
addition to Mrs. Clara Campbell of Ada
County, and Mrs. Harriet Noble of Boise.

	Mrs. Ellen C. Johnson, superintendent of
the Sherborn prison for women, has been
appointed by Governor Wolcott as a dele-
gate from Massachusetts to the Convention
of the National Prison Association to be
held at New Orleans, Jan. 21 to 24. She
is announced to address the convention on
“Prisons for Women.’’


RED CROSS NURSES.

MARGHERlTA ARLINA HAMM.
	“Of the nurses who attended the sick and
wounded some were hired and received a
salary. A second class received no salary,
but had their expenses paid. A third class
paid their own expenses and traveled great
distances in going from their homes to the
camps in the South or in the West Indies.
A fourth class consisted of members of local
branches residing in the neighborhood of
the hospitals, who volunteered their ser-
vices for a day, week, or month, and who
did not wait for any special order from the
central authority. Besides nurses there
were distributors, inspectors, physicians,
clerks, guards, bookkeepers and others.
Altogether over 1,000 volunteers served
their country in the peaceful ranks of the
Red Cross army.
	“Of the amount of money raised and ex-
pended by the Red Cross it is very difficult
to get anything like accurate figures. A
few contributors and auxiliaries published
the value of the supplies they forwarded
either to the supply depots or to the camps,


but at least three-fourths kept undivulged
the value of their donations.
	“Mr. Richard J. Hinton, who gave this
division much study, and found that the
amount of money received at the New
York office between June 15 and August
26 aggregated over $235,000, an average
of $3,400 per day. The supplies received
during the same period came to about
$250,000, or $3,500 per day. * * *
	“The grand total of gifts from all parts of
the world, including supplies and trans-
portation, was not less than $3,000,000 and
probably not more than $4 000,000, al-
though the agents in different states say it
is very difficult to value the supplies.
	“No such munificence was ever known be-
fore in the history of the world. Though
the war is over practically the Red Cross
keeps up its good work and will, as far as
it can, bend its energies to ameliorating
the condition of the Cubans. In Porto
Rico little or nothing remains to be done,
and in the Philippines there will be no
great need of charitable action; but in the
luckless island of Cuba a very large body of
people will require assistance for two or
three years before they become prosperous
and self supporting. Not alone are the
fields ruined, but the homes, factories,
machinery and live-stock have been de-
stroyed.”


REFLECTIONS. 

BY NINA WINSLOW ECKART.
The snow lies on the frozen ground,
	The night is dark and still,
Save now and then the winds low moan
	Across some distant hill.
And i[-] a r[-]om a young man sits, 
His head is bowed in prayer,
He longs to be at home again
	Where life is free from care.

Around the room are tokens dear—
	A pic[-]ure on the wall,
Recalls to him his college days,
	His friends and classmates all. 
The room where four glad years were spent,
	In thought he sees once more,
His books and chair await him there,
	He sees the open door.

And thinks “Oh would that I could stand
	Upon that threshold bright,
And have those dear, familiar scenes
	To cheer me up tonight.”
And then like mi[-]t before his eyes
	Another vision sweeps,
And swiftly as the life blood flows, 
	Around his heart it creeps.

He hears again his mother’s voice,
	And on his fevered brow
Her gentle hand again is placed,
	(Oh, were she with him now!)
The tears unbidden fill his eyes, 
	Then dashing them away
He rises to his feet again,
	And now I hear him say:

“Ah, yes, my life is lonely here
	But I will not give way,
The sun behind the cloud is bright,
	Although the sky is gray. 
And when a fortune I have made,
	They’ll be so proud to know,
How I have worked and won my way,
	In all this world of woe.”

Yes, hopeful be, my friend, for Fate
	Is good to those who try,
Beneath the cold snow of despair,
	The Crocus blossoms lie,
And they will bud and bloom for you,
	Ere many days are done,
The clouds will pass from out your way,
	And the behold the sun.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 1, 1899.


[Column 1]
A WONDERFUL AGE.

	Truly this age is significant of a higher
order of things, a larger outlook soon to
manifest itself in the development of the
human race. Assuredly in all that relates
to progress and to culture even in aesthet-
ics the human family is not going back-
ward, but forward. Organization has had
much to do with this onward movement.
	To be sure war has not ceased altogether,
but efforts made and plans proposed for a
Peace Congress for all the powerful nations,
foretells vividly what we who are living to-
day may anticipate as near at hand. One
even now looks forward to the unexpected,
and might almost add the impossible; for
really what would have been claimed
as utterly impossible fifty years ago has
come to pass, and is almost classed as some-
thing of an i[-]cident instead of, as our fore-
fathers would have thought it, a positive
miracle or unwarrantable in fact.
	Not only the rapid advancement made in
the world of affairs, great and small, and
the common workaday world itself, but the
unprecedented growth of ideas; not neces-
sarily from the learned in the arts and
sciences, or direct lines of knowledge, but
a kind of spontaneous outcome as it were
from some fount of intelligence which had
been reposing through the ages and culmin-
ated at last in the nineteenth century, crys-
talizing certain truths for the uplifting of
mankind. The Lord of heaven and
earth has the over-ruling power, notwith-
standing the wisdom of the world and the
impracticability of many of the theories of
men, and He will care for His own, and
those that seek after the bread of life will
be entitled to the promises made to the
faithful.
	Women have in this present generation
taken hold of some of the problems of the
day and wrestled with them with the in-
tuitive spiritual strength that seems to be a
part of the feminine nature. Men in high
places who have hitherto been tenacious of
rights and of power are beginning to feel,
and in some measure to acknowledge the
superiority of woman’s judgment in many
important matters, and to appreciate her
help as a force working for good in nearly
all the varied lines of progress.
	It is a self-evident truth that women
stand on a higher plane morally and spirit-
ually than men, and why, then, may they
not mingle in governmental affairs, since
society and the true life of the individual
and the nation depends so much upon good,

[Column 2]
wholesome laws judiciously administered,
with a view to restraining evil and promot-
ing good in practical ways that should tend
to better standards in every day life.
	While mothers and sisters were content
with domesticity and never looked into the
outside world except as some man gave his
masculine view, the world wagged along;
but when woman awoke to a conscious-
ness of her own power she began to wonder
and to calculate and inquire what were her
rights. The key of knowledge was turned
for her, and men no longer had the same
absolute sway. Women began to do some
of their own thinking on moral questions,
and then social problems were discussed on
the moral side, and following that economic
measures and so on through the whole cate-
gory of human affairs. To woman has
been opened the great domain of the world,
and why not to the mothers of generations
of men? But ask as one will why and
wherefore the fact remains that woman is
now fairly launched into the arena of Hercu-
lean endeavor to make her way onward
and upward in the ascent of life to the high-
er plane and to lift up those weaker and
less able than herself, the women of less en-
lightened countries and the children; striv-
ing to make better the conditions and en-
vironments, removing obstructions that lie
in the pathway to excellence, and always
bearing inasmuch as is possible the burdens
of others, who are struggling to reach safer
ground.
	Combined efforts are multiplying, and
necessarily must increase the power against
tyranny and oppression of all kinds, and
where men and women unite for high pur-
poses, intelligently waging war against
wrong-doing, the victory so long looked for
must eventually be expected.
	But such a thing cannot be brought
about momentarily; howevheer leaven is
working and the prophecies of Joel con-
cerning the last days when the spirit of the
Lord would be poured out upon all flesh
are being fulfilled before the very eyes of
the generations of today and they know it
not. There is a power that is working for
righteousness in the earth though the in-
fluences that tend to evil are opposed.
	Whatever may be said of the age, every-
one must admit it is a wonderful age how-
ever one marks progress. History must so
record it. This nineteenth century now
drawing to a close is the most eventful one
since the days of the Savior and His Apos-
les in the first century of the Christian era.
	The peace project of the Czar of Russia
presages something more than has yet ap-
peared; various conjectures about his motives
are afloat, but the Lord is working among
the nations and the desire for peace which
is growing among highly enlightened peo-
ples speaks for itself in a voice not to be
misunderstood. Russia may be afraid of
other nations and consequently advise dis-
armament, but a higher power than the
Czar can be recognized in the treaty for
peace along which line some men and wo-
men, the Peacemakers, have been laboring
during the last decade with great diligence.
Summing up the great changes in the last
hundred years must bring evidence to all
who stop to think, and another age like
this will assuredly bring greater things
to pass in the same ratio.


We have asked repeatedly through the
paper and officially for the names of women
who were elected in November 1898, but
have not yet been able to get replies.


TRIENNIAL NATIONAL COUNCIL.

	A delegation of ladies will go from Utah
to attend the Triennial of the National
Council of Women to be held in Washing-
ton early this month, and will be there in
time for the preliminary or prefatory meet-
ing to be held Saturday evening, the 11th
of February, at the Arlington Hotel where
the Council will have its headquarters dur-
ing the time of the Triennial.
	On Sunday women ministers of
different denominations who are in attend-
ance at the Council will probably be invited
to speak in some of the churches in the city
as they usually are, or have been in the past.
	The National Woman’s Relief Society
and the Young Ladies National Mutual
Improvement Association are affiliated with
the National Council and will send dele-
gates, or rather, technically speaking, a
proxy for the president and one delegate
from each organization. The president of
each society affiliated is vice-president to
the Council proper, and all business that
pertains to the Council is referred that she
may act in reference to it, either in person
or by correspondence or telegram.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young and Mrs. Elmina
S. Taylor are by virtue of the office they
hold vice presidents. The presidents and
delegates are the only ones who have votes
except the general officers of the society,
and in their absence or non-attendance the
president is represented by proxy, and the
delegate by an alternate who vote in their
place.
	Patrons of the Council have no vote,
though they have all other privileges; they
may attend all business meetings, partici-
pate in discussions and have the privilege
of the floor, but cannot vote as they have
no constituency to represent. Annual con-
tributors are admitted to the same privi-
leges as patrons. To become a patron one
must be recommended as a person of influ-
ence and standing in society by some one to
whom she is known and who is herself
known to the Society. The fee for patrons
is one hundred dollars down, and for an-
nual contributors five dollars a year. There
are several ladies in this city who are annual
contributors, though very few patrons.
	The National Council is certainly a most
dignified body of superior women; they
hail from all parts of the United States
and Fraternal Delegates have come from
other countries to the Triennial at each of
its regular sessions and also to its business
session.
	In Washington in 1895, at the second
Triennial, the Countess of Aberdeen and
Lady Henry Somerset were both upon
the platform as speakers with many other
distinguished women writers and orators.
	Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson of Boston,
president of the George Washington Mem-
orial Association, made a magnificent
speech at the executive meeting in Omaha
in October at one of the public sessions,
also Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, who repre-
sents the Florence Crittendon [-]ssociation.
It is to be regretted that more Utah women
cannot attend the Triennial, as it is most
educational in many ways.
	It was confidently expected at the session
of 1895 that the next Triennial would meet
in an upper and lower house as the Con-
gress of the United States does, but so
many things have since transpired to hinder
the progress which the Council expected to
make that the idea is given up for the pres-
ent, although not abandoned.


Mrs. Mary A. Dickinson, who was elected
president of the Council in 1895, and who
was certainly well qualified in every respect
for the position, after two years was com-
pelled to resign by order of her physician,
and after much persuasion and entreity
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, the former presi-
dent, was induced to accept the office for
the unexpired term. Mrs. Sewall is, and
was at that time, vice president of the Inter-
national Council, which is composed of
National Councils, as the National Council
is of National Societies or Associations.
Mrs. Sewall has been nominated for the
next president of the International Council,
and will without doubt be elected. The
present incumbent of the office is the
Countess of Aberdeen.
	A new president, therefore, will be elected
at the coming Triennial, and this will be a
very important feature of the Triennial.
Probably no woman in the United States is
better qualified (if as well) to hold such
a high position as Mrs. Sewall, but the ladies
must be content when they know one of
their own country women, an American,
has been sought for and honored with a
higher place, to preside over many collective
National Councils from several different
countries, speaking different languages,
some of them ladies of rank and title, yet
Mrs. Sewall is their acknowledged peer,
nevertheless.
	The members of the Council are proud
of the distinction Mrs. Sewall has justly ob-
tained, and fully appreciate the honor it is
to American women.
	We ardently hope Mrs. May Wright
Sewall will be the representative from the
National Council of Women to the Paris
Exposition, and Congress will be petitioned
to make this appointment, and with a mil-
lion of women one would think Congress
could scarcely refuse to give this organized
work a woman representative.
	Mrs. Bertha M. Palmer will probably be
appointed to represent the work of the wo-
men of the United States. Such an appoint-
ment for her has been applied for—but so
far there is no positive assurance of it, al-
though there is scarcely a doubt with re-
gard to Mrs Palmer’s appointment.
	The National Woman’s Relief Society
will probably be represented by Mrs. E. B.
Wells, proxy for president, and Mrs. Zina
Y. Card delegate, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas,
alternate delegate. The Y. L. N. M. I. A.
by Mrs. Martha H. Tingey, proxy for
president, Mrs. Minnie J. Snow delegate,
and Miss Ann M. Cannon alternate to dele-
gate and member of Resolution Commit-
tee. Mrs Susa Y. Gates as speaker, sub-
ject, “Status of Hawaiian Women.” Mrs.
E.B. Wells’ subject will be “Good Citizen-
ship.”
	It is also expected that Mrs. Lucy B.
Young and Mrs. Elizabeth McCune will go,
as both are patrons of the National Council.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OFFICIAL NOTICE.

	The Stake secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety in all the several Stakes of Zion and of
missions or branches of the Relief Society
where Stakes are not organized, are hereby
requested to send statistical and financial re-
ports for the entire year of 1898, to the
general secretary, room 208 Templeton
building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	In Tooele County, Utah, a woman re-
corder and collector has been appointed.
In Box Elder County Miss Fanny Graehl,
who served last term as recorder, was again
elected; also in Millard County Mrs. Deli-
lah King Olsen was re-elected for this term.
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates of Provo, editor
of the Young Woman’s Journal, has been
appointed by Mrs. May Wright Sewall
Active Chairman of the Press Committee of
the National Council of Women of the
United States.
	The Utah Legislature is spending most
of its time the last three weeks balloting
for a Senator and making eloquent speeches.
The two women naturally drift into the
same line of action, notwithstanding they
are both strong-minded. The fact is there
should have been more women elected,
then their influence might have turned the
scale and perhaps less time used in making
choice of a suitable Senator.
	The agents of the “Exponent” in all the
several wards and Stakes of Zion, and also
individual subscribers indebted for the
paper are urgently requested to settle all
old accounts at the earliest date possible.
This becomes an absolute necessity on ac-
count of the change that takes place in the
management of the Deseret Evening News.
The “Exponent” will not be sent to any
subscriber after January 1899, unless pre-
paid. All delinquents will as soon as pos-
sible receive written notices of bills due, in
addition to tbe printed matter.
	Tuesday, January 31 was the anniversary
of the birthday of President Zina D. H.
Young, familiarly and lovingly known
among the sisters as “Aunt Zina,” and in
commemoration of the time members and
relatives of the Young family were invited
to meet at the residence of Mrs. Phebe Y.
Beatie to spend a few hours of the after-
noon, to pay their loving tribute
to this distinguished Mother in Israel,
whose whole life has been spent in doing
good. Everywhere her works praise her
and her name is spoken of lovingly by
young and old. May her useful and
beautiful life be prolonged until she has
finished all her heart desires to do, and her
name and her works of love and charity
never be forgotten by the generation in
which she has taken such an active part,
but be handed down in the annals of the
Church as one of its noblest heroines.
	On the same day occurs the birthday
anniversary of President Jane S. Richards
who was born two years later. Both
these sisters were born in Jefferson Co ,
New York State, and have been intimately
associated ever since the organization of
the Relief Society in Nauvoo. Mrs. Rich-
ards is at present sojourning for a brief time
it in Los Angelos, California; her husband,
President Franklin D. Richards, has gone
over quite recently for a visit. Their son,
Hon. C. C. Richards and wife are with
them, and no doubt they are enjoying the
happy occasion and celebrating the birth-
day with all due ceremony, gifts and trib-
utes of love in that land of flowers, fruits
and sunshine. The “Exponent” extends
loving congratulations to these famous wo-
men, who have assisted in laying the
foundation of one of the largest societies of
women organized in this country. May it
be their good fortune to see much accom-

[Column 2]
plished for the futherance of this charitable
and philanthropic work during the next
few years, a work which has so engrossed
their time and talents in the years that are
past. A work of practical relief, love and
sympathy carried on in the midst of this
people, the magnitude and extent of which
is little known among many even of the
members of the Church.


PERSEVERANCE AT CENTERVILLE.

	The Centerville Relief Society owned
two lots of its own and desired to build, as
they had no place of their own to meet in,
but on inquiring the cost they found it
would be more than they could afford, not
wishing to go into debt too much. On the
adjoining lot from theirs was a school house
which they were advised to purchase if it
could be bought on reasonable terms. A
committee was formed of the brethren to
look after it. They found they could buy
it for five hundred dollars. Through the
perseverance of the committee, and prayers
and help of the brethren and sisters who
responded nobly to the cause, they bought
it, so we now own two thirds of a block.
The school house was cleared and repaired,
its size is thirty by thirty-five feet, it cost
to repair and furnish it one hundred and 
five dollars.
	The hall was dedicated on the 1st of June,
1898. There were present President J.
Hess and Counselors Grant and Clark, of
the Davis Stake; the Bishopric of the ward,
A. B. Porter, Melvin H. Randall and John
J. Smith; Stake Presidency of the Relief 
Society, President Susan Grant and Coun-
selors Clark and Holt and R. S. Stake 
Secretary Phebe Sessions; also Mrs. E. D.
Roundy of Salt Lake City and other visitors
from the different wards. It was decided
that the Relief Society should fast in thank-
fulness to their Heavenly Father for His
goodness unto them.
	The meeting was called to order by
President Margaret Randall. Singing
“The spirit of God.” Prayer by Bishop
Aaron Porter. Singing, Invocation com-
posed by E. D. Roundy, after which Presi-
dent Randall gave a brief sketch of how we
bought our house, and said she knew the
Lord had greatly blessed us in opening our
way to obtain the means to pay for it.
	The dedicatory prayer was then offered
by our beloved president, John W. Hess.
Short addresses were made by the visiting
brethren and sisters, congratulating us up-
on our building and furnishings, and
prophesying that the way would be opened 
whereby we could pay the rest of the in-
debtedness. They also spoke of the magni-
tude of the Relief Society work and its aims
and purposes, and said it gave the sisters
great scope to use their talents and abilities
in relieving suffering humanity, and in
many ways could we do good; we could by
our walk and conversation in our daily life
teach the principles of virtue and truth and 
sow the seeds of faith in the hearts of the
young people, and encourage all to do right
by our own example as well as precept.
Prayed the Lord to ever bless the sisters
with a full realization of their duties and
give them strength to perform the same.
	A poem was then read dedicated to our
beloved president, Margaret Randall, in
which her faithfulness and integrity to the
Gospel and the Relief Society work in
general was portrayed, composed and read
by Mrs. E. D. Roundy, after which the


meeting was adjourned and cake and ice
cream were served to the assembly.
		MARY ROCKWOOD, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Ladies’ Semi-monthly meeting was
held Jan. 9, 1899, Counselor E. J. Stevenson
presiding. Singing “Come let us anew.”
Prayer by Sister Louisa Stevens. Singing
“All hail the new born year.” Minutes
read and approved.
	Counselor Stevenson told the congrega-
tion that President Horne had been very
sick but was improving. Spoke of the les-
sons we must learn in life and how valu-
able they would be when we had learned
them, pray for the help of the Lord. The
Prophet Joseph Smith said at one o’clock
was a good time to pray. Sister Kiddle
who had testified in our last meeting had
now been laid to rest. Spoke also of the
death of Sister Priscilla Staines, said let us
all be prepared to go.
	Sister Brown spoke of Temple work and
the peace it brings us, thought we should
look to God to heal our sick, etc. The
congregation sang “The Spirit of God.”
	Sister Mary P. Silver said, “We are the
most blessed people on the earth.” Ex-
horted all to attend to their duties and be
prepared to meet eternity.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “We’ll stand
the strain.” A sister, name unknown, of-
fered a humble prayer, and another sister
bore a strong testimony.
	Sister Barnes said she knew Joseph Smith
was a prophet of God. She became con-
verted to the Gospel by reading the Book
of Mormon. Through her trials and hard-
ships she had been brought nearer to God.
Another sister bore an excellent testimony.
	Sister Almeda Young spoke upon bearing
testimony when the Spirit of God moves,
and the necessity of our listening to those
who are placed over us, and of the integrity
of President M. I. Horne.
	The congregation sang “Arise my soul,
arise.” Sister Barton spoke of the com-
mandments given to Joseph Smith, and
said how blessed we should be if we would
keep them. She thought the rearing of the
youth was of the utmost importance and we
should lead in all things, attend to our
meetings, pay our tithing and never speak
against the priesthood.
	Sister Louise Stevenson said she thought
it was best to go with our children to their
meetings, teach them principles of truth.
	Sister Julia S. Woolley and Sister Mary
Morris bore testimonies of the Gospel and
the peace it brings. A sister in the congre-
gation spoke of her sons going to the late
war and how the Lord had preserved them.
Another sister bore testimony and urged all
to stand firm and unwavering to the truth.
Another sister told how her father had cast
her off because she joined the Latter-day
Saints.
	Sister Mary Morris thought those who
spoke against the principles of the Gospel
were prompted by the adversary. Congre-
gation sang “What was witnessed in the
heavens.”
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson said let us
keep humble and purify our souls so that
we can enjoy the spirit of the Lord. We
are a tried people, but go to our Heavenly
Father and he will never betray us.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “The God we adore.” Benediction by
Sister Lydia D. Alder.
				J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


[Column 1]
THE SILK WORM AND ITS SILK

	When Noah was a little boy, about 150
or 200 years old, and hundreds of years be- 
fore he received Divine instructions to con-
struct the Ark, when not far to the west-
ward of Mount Ararat where the Ark rested
after the flood, and just across the Caspian
Sea, a little Chinese girl (she was about 14
years old) named Si-ling chi, the wife of the
Emperor Hoang-ti, was watching one day
early in the spring, with astonishment the
movements of some caterpillars that were
feeding upon the leaves of a mulberry tree.
Day by day she watched and day by day
the caterpillars grew rapidly.
	She noticed that as they moved their
heads from side to side that a liquid, gum-
my substance appeared to issue from their
mouths and soon change into a soft and
downy thread. She used to go every day
and watch the caterpillars working. Bye
and bye, when the cocoons were formed,
she had the curiosity to take one in her
hand and examine it. She found it about
the size and shape of a peanut; from it a
number of loose threads floated about.
Pulling one of them she found it was so
light it would float in the air, yet so tough
she could pull off quite a length of it. It
occured to her that if these cocoons could be
softened she could obtain a longer thread
of the silk and be able to use it. After
some study she soaked the cocoons in
warm water and began pulling on the
thread. To her delight it grew longer and
longer, and she wound it around her fingers
till the cocoon was all unwound, and then
she found she had a continuous thread
3,000 to 4,000 feet long. In her girlish
glee she turned to her waiting woman and
exclaimed, “Hoo-le-ma, (See;) Ming-hing
haynung,” (Look ! How beautiful!) The
silk when reeled was a bright golden color
and doubtless it is from this fact the Chi-
nese are so fond of yellow, it being the
royal color of their country.
	Si-ling-chi’s industry did not end here,
for she went several steps further and
taught the ladies of her palace to manu-
facture and embroider silk. Not only the
emperor, but Mandarins and others ap-
peared in public robed in fabrics of dazzling
hues.
	For many years the Chinese guarded
well the secret of the source of their im-
mense wealth, for raw silk was imported
all over Asia, India, Persia and Arabia.
There are two legends as to how the secret
got out. One is that some monks conveyed
the eggs in their staffs over the border; the
other is that the pantless little fellow Cupid
had a hand in it.
	The first known place outside of Asia
where silk was cultivated was the Island of
Cos. The cloth woven in this country
was of the thinnest possible texture and
transparent. Justinian secured a monopoly
of the trade. Under the care of the Greeks
the silk worm took kindly to its Western
home and their silken textures became
famous. At a later period the Saracens
maintained a mastery over the trade and
by them it was spread east and west.
	The eggs of the silk worm are deposited
by a moth known as the Bombyx mori,
which lays about 350 of them. After im-
pregnating the female the male dies. He
rarely survives more than four or five
hours. The female lives two or three
days to deposit the egg. When first de-
posited they are a beautiful bright hue, but
they soon turn color, becoming dull and

[Column 2]
dark. She never deposits the eggs in a
heap, that is to say her eggs are never laid
one top of the other. What her purpose is
in spreading them out I do not know. That
is a habit of which there is no intelligent
explanation. The male is a little fellow,
creamy in color and much livelier than his
mate. He flutters about while the female
remains still. Her brief life is spent with-
in a radius of six inches. They neither
eat nor drink, having no mouths. They
are born only for a reproductive purpose.
Having deposited her eggs the female fol-
lows the male into the Great Unknown.
The eggs hatch out the following spring.
Its product is dark and covered with fine
hair. One hundred will weigh a grain and
at maturity the same one hundred will
weigh 9,500 grains. The little worms are
fed on young mulberry leaves. They go
on feeding and growing rapidly for a few
days, then refuse food, for two days they
remain in a torpid state after which they
cast their skins, which do not seem to grow
apace with the rest of their bodies. Then
they go on feeding and growing when the
same thing occurs. In all they cast their
skins four times and go through five ages,
they have about thirty-one days of eating
and nine days of fasting. Then sets in a
brief era of unrest during which they
wander about moving their heads, which is
preliminary to the final act of their strange
and wonderful career. Having found a
suitable place they commence throwing
from their spinneret the airy filament
which they have been storing up since they
began feeding. The spinneret is a very
small orifice below the mouth. Around
and around the body the filament is wound,
the worm making the silk a tomb for itself.
To this purpose the rest of its life is steadi-
ly devoted. It makes sixty-five motions of
its head every minute, or a total of three
hundred thousand to spin its cocoon. Dur-
ing this time (a minute) the filament flows
from four to six inches from the spinneret.
Its labor done, the legs drop off and death
intervenes.
	In the cocoon, however, is the pupa, or
chrysalis with no chance of escape. How-
ever there is a way out. In ten or fifteen
days the moth is developed and it ejects
against the end of the cocoon a secretion
which softens the gum, and pushing some
of the threads aside and breaking others,
the moths issue to play their part in the re-
productive process already described. So it
goes on indefinitely. This is all that is
known or can be known of the silk worm.
It eats and works. The laws that govern
its being are arbitrary and inflexible. From
these laws it seems to have no desire to es-
cape Where the conditions are favorable
it goes right on about its business, carrying
out the designs of its Creator and finally
yielding up its brief life in obedience to a
mandate as irrevocable as our own fate,
whatever it may be when we are called to
account. By what so called instinct it is
governed I cannot say. I cannot answer
that any more than I can solve any one of
the numberless profound problems which
we see about us. Its purpose most proba-
bly, is to provide a home for the chrysalis,
and to do that it sacrifices its own life. The
perpetuation of its species seems to be its
only aim, and in carrying out this purpose
it plays into the hands of man.
	A singular thing about the spinning pro-
cess is that the thread is never tangled.
Row after row of it is completed, the worm
never beginning a new one, until the old


one is finished. Then man steps in and
after stifling the pupa, unwinds the cocoons
with a filature. The cocoons are at first
hard and unyielding. They are softened in
warm water with a little soap. The ends
are gathered up with a probe to which they
attach themselves while in the water, and
then the filature unwinds them and they
become raw silk.
THE COCOONS.
	The cocoons from which the moths are
allowed to escape are taken with the waste,
that is, the silk thrown out by the worm
before it commences its cocoon, and con-
verted into spun silk,and used in the manu-
facture of inferior goods. The method of
manufacture consists in cleaning and
macerating the raw material, after which it
is carded and made into thread somewhat
after the manner of cotton.
	Cocoons vary in length from 300 to
1,800 yards in one continuous thread which
is 10/213 of an inch in diameter composed
of two fibers. Sixty thousand cocoons,
which would be produced from 1 1/2 oz. of
eggs, would produce enough silk to girdle
the earth at the equator.
	Ten to twelve pounds of leaves con-
sumed by the worms produce one pound of
cocoons. Three and three quarters pounds
of cocoons yield one pound (16 ozs.) of raw
silk, and one pound of raw silk produces,
when degummed, 12 ozs. of pure silk, one
pound of which with the assistance of dye-
stuffs, make twenty yards of a heavy im-
ported gros-grain. Twelve thousand
pounds of raw silk, or the product of about
50,000,000 worms are used weekly by a
leading American firm in the manufacture
of spool silk alone. Over $100,000,000
were expended in the United States during
the year 1888 for silk. In colored silks
35,000 shades or tints can be dyed. Black
silk fabrics can be adulterated five hundred
per cent. Pure dye silks are almost inde-
structible, 16-oz. dye being the best for
service.
				JOHN DEAN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORT.

BINGHAM STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Bingham Stake convened at
Lewisville, December 17, 1898, President
E. J. Bennett presiding. Opened by sing-
ing “The morning breaks.” Prayer by 
Bishop Jardine. Singing “Now let us re-
joice.” President E. J Bennett made a
few opening remarks, minutes of the pre-
vious forenoon conference were read and 
approved.
	President James E. Steele explained to
the sisters the necessity of sending in
their charitable reports to the Bishops.
	President E. J. Bennett said we should
give what we have to give through the Re-
lief Society that we may have credit on the
books, and then forward our half yearly re-
ports to the Bishops that the sisters may
have credit for what they do, and when 
the teachers go around they should try and 
find out if there are any who are in need,
and those who may need assistance should
not be too proud to receive help. We should
be careful not to make our business too 
public so as to hurt any one’s feelings.
	Reports were then given as follows:
Lewisville, President Jardine; Menan,
Counselor Mary Stephens; Iona, Secretary


[Column 1]
Hall. Each society was reported as doing
a good work.
	President James E. Steele said he was
pleased to meet in Relief Society conference.
He always liked to be on time so as to hear
the petitions that go up to the Father and
partake of the spirit that we may be in pos-
session of it in our conference. It is neces-
sary that we should come together that the
people may be instructed and encouraged.
The Lord sees the needs of His people and
thus we have these privileges. He could
see in meeting with those who did not at-
tend these conferences and did not partake
of the spiritual food, that they were not so
energetic. It looked as though the re-
sponsibility of this work were resting upon
a few. An object in coming to meeting
should be to be fed spiritual food and in-
structed. The reward is to those who are
faithful all the day long. Spoke upon the
storing of grain; hoped the sisters in this
Stake would add two thousand more bush-
els this season to their grain. Urged the
sisters to use their surplus quilts in blessing
the poor and keeping them from suffering
with the cold. Said the more he became
acquainted with the organization the broad-
er and grander it was, prayed God to bless
us that we might enjoy this conference.
	President E. J. Bennett wished there had
been more present to hear the words of
President Steele and the spirit they were
given in, said we were making a record for
time and all eternity.
	Meeting then closed by singing “Lord
dismiss us.” Benediction.
	Afternoon session opened by singing
“The time is far spent.” Prayer was of-
fered by Patriarch O. Harmon. Singing,
“O, ye mountains high.” Minutes of the
afternoon session of the previous conference
were read and accepted, after which Sister
Kate Bennett was released as Stake treasur-
er of the Relief Society, and sustained and
set apart as assistant secretary, and Sister
Alice Boomer was released as assistant
treasurer, and sustained and set apart as
Stake treasurer to the Relief Society. Re-
ports were then called for and the Ammon
society was reported by President Richard-
son. She said meetings were not attended
so well of late on account of sickness. They
had built a granary, had 235 bushels of
grain.
	Counselor Dabell reported the Grant soci-
ety. Said they had paid out fifteen dollars
of late for charitable purposes.
	Labelle society was reported by Sister
Clifford, secretary; Rudy society, by Presi-
dent Clark.
	Emma C. Rushton, Stake counselor,
thought we had good reports in today,
but they could be improved. Noticed the
sisters who attended these meetings were
generally on hand, it was those that did not
attend to these duties that needed waking
up. Felt we had none too much time and
we should try and visit those who were
neglectful.
	Stake Secretary E. S. Brunt thought we
did not study sufficiently so as to be able to
instruct our children in the Gospel, let us
keep good books in the way of our children,
and not the light literature of to day. The
Lord desired to see our children saved and
He was sending fishers and hunters to
bring them in the path of their duty.
	President E. J. Bennett spoke of the
storing of grain, said we should store it for
a time of need and not to loan and specu-
late on, and the sisters should build good

[Column 2]
granaries and have them dedicated. Spoke
against raffling, instructed the teachers to
go around with a good spirit and have com-
forting words for the sisters. Recommended
lectures in our society from the Bible and
our Church works. Said that at our late
conference in Salt Lake City it was decided
that the 17th day of March should be the
annual day of the Relief Society, and ad-
vised the sisters to make it a good and
profitable day.
	The officers of the General Board, also
Stake officers were unanimously sustained.
Conference was then adjourned for three
months Singing, “An angel from on high.”
Benediction by Elder Benjamin Bennett.
				E. S. BRUNT, Sec.


[Column 1]
OBITUARY.

SKETCH OF MRS. C. K. PALMER.
	Catharine K. Palmer, wife of Mifflin L.
Palmer, passed away at 3:20 p. m., Janu-
ary 12, 1899. She was the daughter of
Abram and Catharine King Dolbey, and 
was born in Chester Co., Penn., on the 6th 
of April, 1817. She was the mother of
eight children, five of whom survive her;
they are Mrs. Rebecca W. Harper of Read-
ing, Penn., Mrs. Phoebe Shaffer and Mrs.
Eliza Frost of this city, Mr. A. Morris
Palmer of Taylorsville and Mrs. Bethula
Sharp of Vernon; and she was also the
mother of the late Mrs. Selinda D. Bring-
hurst, wife of Bishop W. A. Bringhurst of
Toquerville.
	Sister Palmer joined the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints about 1840, and 
with her husband and part of her family
came to Utah in 1861. She settled in the 
8th ward of Salt Lake City, and with the
exception of a few months has resided there
ever since. She joined the Relief Society
of that ward at its organization in 1866, and 
was appointed a teacher. Since then she
was treasurer and afterwards counselor, and
in 1893 she was appointed president of the
society, which office she held at the time of 
her death. She filled all these offices faith-

[Column 2]
fully and won the respect of all who knew
her.
	She was buried from the 8th ward meet-
ing house, which was beautifully draped
and trimmed with smilax, on Monday 16.
Her pall-bearers were six of her grandsons.
Every honor was paid her, the meeting
house was filled, the floral offerings were
very beautiful. One from the Relief Soci-
ety was a sheaf of wheat from Philadelphia
and a sickle.
	She was sick for many months and bore
her sufferings uncomplainingly. She knew
she could not recover and gave directions
concerning her funeral. She was a faith-
ful worker in the cause of truth and has
earned a rest from her labors of nearly
eighty-two years. She leaves many near
relatives in the Eastern states, one being a
twin sister.
							E. F.
LOUISA G. HENINGER.
	Sister Louisa G. Heninger was born in
Bland Co, Virginia, September 8, 1836.
She was the daughter of Francis Grose-
close and Mary I. Grosclose, that being her
mother’s maiden name also.
	Sister Louisa was of a gentle, mild and
patient disposition, exhibiting in her tender
years a veneration for God and sacred
things, possessing a prayerful heart and
desire to understand the principles taught
in the Scriptures of divine truth. With
such characteristics she was readily im-
pressed with the truth of the Gospel as re-
vealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith in these
last days. Elder Jedediah M. Grant intro-
duced the Gospel into that section in 1839
or 1840, and made many converts to the
truth Among them was Absalom Young
who became a very capable Elder in that
section of Virginia. Sister Louisa with
her father was baptized by Elder Absalom
Young, December 3, 1856, in Holsten river,
Bland Co., Virginia. She promptly secured
the spirit of the Gospel and took pleasure at
all times in hearing its principles expounded
and in doing all in her power to explain it
to others and remove prejudice from the
minds of the misinformed.
	She was married to James Preston Hen-
inger June 15, 1859, who also at an early
date had embraced the Gospel. They re-
mained in Virginia for some years and their
house was always the home of the Elders
from Zion. Sister Louisa and her husband
never felt that they could do enough to
make the servants of the Lord comfortable,
and to assist them in every way to prose-
cute their missionary labors.
	Their home was ever open to public
meetings when more capacious buildings
could not be procured. Many of the good
“Virginia folk” have listened at their
family fireside to the Gospel expounded by
Elders from Utah. Be it said to their credit
also, that they entertained the Baptist, the
Methodist, the Lutheran, and every class of
preacher that came to their neighborhood,
and gave them the best they had of the
comforts of life. By their sojourn in Vir-
ginia a permanent home was made for the
Elders for twenty-six years, during which
time many Elders found a welcome home
and many neighbors were brought to a
knowledge of the truth.
	Sister Heninger with her husband and
eight children and two children of her hus-
band’s by a former wife emigrated to Utah
in the month of November, 1881. They
settled in Eden, Weber Co., where they

[Column 3]
purchased a good farm and made them a
new home. They received their blessings
in the House of the Lord, and have been
constantly faithful to their duties. Brother
Heninger preceded his faithful wife to the
spirit world nine years and two months.
Sister Heninger was confined to her bed
three weeks, feeling sure that her time had
come and so stated to her family. Her only
desire to live was to work in the Temple
for her dead. Her son Harvey is now on a
mission to his native state, and is gathering
genealogical data. During her last illness
she was filled with the calm, quiet influence
of the Holy Spirit. Those who visited her
and administered unto her were all im-
pressed with the heavenly influence which
was with her.
	She passed peacefully to the world be-
yond without the sting of death, dying in
the Lord, November 24, 1898, surrounded
by all her children except one who is on a
mission to the Southern States. She was
the mother of eight children, two sons and
six daughters, every one of whom has em-
braced the Gospel and is living in the faith
thereof.
	At her funeral consoling remarks were
made by Bishop Pitkin of Millville, Cache
Co., and other Elders well acquainted with
the deceased. Her remains were laid quiet-
ly to rest in the Ogden cemetery, Sunday,
November 27, 1898. She died in the Lord,
she rests from her labors and her works do
follow her. Peace to her memory, she has
fought the good fight, kept the faith and
will receive a crown of eternal life. May
her children be worthy to meet her in the
morning of the First Resurrection.
						[COM.]
ELLA OLNEY HYDE.
	Ella Olney Hyde, wife of Ezra Hyde,
died at Hyde Park, Utah, January 10,
1899, after an illness of eight months. She
leaves a husband and one child, a father,
mother and other relatives to mourn her
loss.
						[COM.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

DATE OF MEETING AND TOPICS TO BE
DISCUSSED.
Members and Friends of the National
Council of Women of the United States:
	The Third Triennial of the National
Council will convene in Washington, D. C.,
February 13. The formal opening will be
preceded by a religious service on the
afternoon of February 12. A prefatory
business meeting will be held in the par-
lors of the Arlington Hotel on Satur-
day evening, February 11. Business
meetings will occupy the mornings of Mon-
day, February 13, and Saturday, February
18. The formal opening will occur on the
evening of Monday, February 13. The
mornings of the 14th-17th, inclusive, and
the evenings of the 13th-18th, inclusive,
will be occupied by public sessions. The
formal adjournment, which is fixed for the
evening of Saturday the 18th, will be fol-
lowed on the afternoon of Sunday the 19th
by a religious service. The meetings will be
held in the Universalist Church, corner of
Tenth and G Streets.
	The term now closing, like the one
which closed with the Triennial of 1895,
has covered a period of four years, instead
of three as contemplated by the constitu-
tion. These years have been fraught with
events the significance of which all men
and women, who, actuated by humanitarian
sentiments, are working in any line of re-
form, feel keenly.
	The program of the Triennial will include:
	First. Discussion and action upon inter-
ests and plans relating strictly to council
affairs.
	Second. Resumes of the achievements of
the closing term and presentation of the
work of the immediate future.
	Third. Discussion of great public inter-
ests from woman’s point of view, including
such topics as expansion, imperialism,
peace and international arbitration, the con-
dition of Hawaiian women, etc.
	One of the most interesting features of
the council’s work will be the presentation
of the progress of the council idea abroad,
and of plans now maturing for the second
quinquennial of the International Council
to be convened in London, England, June
27, 1899, where the National Council of
the United States must have an adequate
representation.
	Council headquarters will be the Arling-
ton Hotel. The railroad secretary (elected
by the executive board at Omaha,) Miss
Lucy E. Anthony, may be addressed at
1830 Diamond Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
	It is the earnest hope of the executive

[Column 2]
board of the National Council that the Third
Triennial will be conspicuous for the ade-
quate representation at its meetings of all
interests included within the council; for
careful preparation for the discussion of the
grave questions that confront all thought-
ful people living in these serious days, and
for the magnanimity and sympathy which
are the essence of the Council idea. May all
members and observers come to the Third
Triennial with the reverent desire to be led
by the light.
	On behalf of the executive:
		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL, Pres.
	633 North Pennslyvania St., Indianapolis,
Ind.
		LOUISA BARNUM ROBBINS, Cor. Sec.
	25 Broad St., Adrian, Michigan.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


Mrs. Mariana W. Chapman, President of
the New York State W. S. A., writes:
“Please say in the Journal that the thanks
of every local suffrage association in the
State of New York should be sent to
Governor Theodore Roosevelt.” His address
is Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, Executive
Mansion, Albany, N. Y.—Ex.
	Governor Pingree of Michigan made this
recommendation in his message to the
Legislature: “I earnestly recommend that
such legislation be enacted as may be
necessary, requiring the appointment of at
least one woman on the advisory board,
and of at least one woman physician upon
the staff of each State institution, charitable
or corrective, having women or girls as in-
mates.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to be better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15 & MARCH 1, 1899	NO 18 & 19.


[Column 1]
KHARTOUM AND SIR HORATIO
HERBERT KITCHENER

	Away in far off Africa is a vast stretch of
country known as “The Soudan.” It lies en-
tirely within the tropics and reaches right
across the continent from the Atlantic Ocean
to the Red Sea. While there are, of course,
imaginary limits north and south, its actual
boundaries so far have not been really fixed.
	A large portion of Africa has come under
the “spheres of influence” of different
European nations. By sphere of influence
is meant that “large areas of land in Africa
are recognized as under the control of
European powers. * * * It designates the
region that may be occupied and developed
by the power for which it is named.”
	This great region of country, the Sou-
dan, is largely inhabited, not only by its
native tribes of the negro race but by wild
tribes of fanatical Arabs. For many years
a civilizing influence was brought to bear
upon this wild country, and at last in 1881
Soudan was under a civilized government.
To be sure there were many imperfections
in the administration of affairs, as of neces-
sity there must be under the circumstances.
But trade flourished. Khartoum, the capi-
tal, occupied an important position at the
junction of the White and the Blue Nile.
It became a business center for European
as well as Egyptian commercial firms.
Trade was facilitated by steamers plying
the river. Communication with the outer
world was maintained by post and by tele-
graph, and just when all seemed going well
a war cloud gathered and burst, ravaging
the country and spreading devastation.
	General Gordon, the famous English
soldier, had been Governor-General of the
Soudan for two years, 1877-1879, and dur-
ing that time he had stamped out the slave
trade. As a consequence the slave dealers
felt oppressed. In 1880 Gordon left the
Soudan to act as adviser of the Chinese
government in its relations with Russia.
It was during his absence the strife broke
out.
	We must now for a moment turn our
attention to Egypt. In 1876 the Khedive
of Egypt who had been working to get his
country conducted on modern principles,
found himself practically a bankrupt. He
had to have help from foreign nations.
French and English capitalists loaned large
sums of money, and England and France
sent experts to try and save something and
help “carry on the country.” In 1878 an
Englishman and a Frenchman were ap-
pointed to high offices in the government.
In April of the same year they were dis-
missed by the Khedive. Two months
later the Khedive was deposed by the

[Column 2]
Turkish government, and France and Eng-
land were again represented in the govern-
ment. “In 1882 Arabi Bey fomented an
uprising, the object of which was to restore
Egypt to the Egyptians.” With the help
of the British fleet and the British army they
were successful. “Then France refused to
take any part in carrying on the govern-
ment, so it devolved upon Great Britain.”
And thus France lost her hold upon Egypt.
	It was during this civil strife in Egypt
that the revolt began in the Soudan, July
1881, led by Mohammed Ahmed. The
Mohammedans are represented as being
superstitious, bigoted and fanatical. They
have long looked forward to a Mahdi, the
literal meaning of which is “guided or
directed one.” “According to Mohamme-
dan belief a spiritual and temporal ruler des-
tined to appear on the earth during the last
days. Some sects hold that the Mahdi has
appeared and in concealment awaits the
time of his manifestation. There have
been a number of pretended Mahdis, of
whom the last of importance was this
Mohammed Ahmed.”
	He was a man of the people, of obscure
birth or origin, but was, or pretended to be,
a descendent of the great prophet. He is
described as a great student with probably
a natural religious bent and possessed of in-
tense cunning. So it is “not difficult to im-
agine how easily he drifted into the lead of
one of the most fanatical movements, to
which Easterners are so prone.” This belief
of the Mohammedans is compared to the
Jewish belief in the coming of the Messiah.
	When the people of the Soudan were left
to themselves the enforced good behavior of
the rulers changed and the people felt op-
pressed and unjustly dealt with. The slave
traders were glad to be rid of Gordon’s rule.
The time was ripe for a revolt and a
leader awaiting his opportunity. 	
	This is the story of the beginning of the
siege by the Mahdi. The people inspired
by religious fervor or fanaticism fought as
only such people can. Attempt after at-
tempt was made to crush this revolt, but
the Mahdi came off ever victorious. His
victories inspired the Soudanese with the
greatest enthusiasm and religious zeal, and
they believed they had indeed the expected
Mahdi. The British did what they could
to help the Egyptians, but the flood was
not checked. Gordon had reached Khar-
toum with a command, but by the fall of
Beehu he was completely shut in. He re-
mained at his post hoping against hope, un-
able to accomplish his heart’s desire to
crush the Mahdi. In England the people
were roused to fever heat and a relief ex-
pedition was sent to Gordon. This expedi-
tion had to fight the most bitter fights to get
to its destination, and arrived, alas, just too
late! Gordon had been most foully slain,
and England had to mourn the loss of a
great leader and many brave men. Gor-
don’s personal characteristics made him one
of the celebrities of the world. His death
occurred January 26, 1885. A statue to
him has been erected in Trafelgar square,
London. Khartoum, of course, fell before
the enemy, the city being destroyed.


[Column 1]
	“Although the Mahdi himself died in
June 1885, the movement he had originated
suffered no check. * * * By the end of
that year Mahdism reigned supreme
throughout the Soudan.” And even the
southern part of Egypt fell under that
power. But soon dissensions arose among
the Arabs. The Khalifa, successor to the
Mahdi, was a western Arab and treated the
easterners with cruelty. Things continued
in a turmoil until the spring of 1898, when
General Sir Horatio Herbert Kitchener having.
been put in command, he at the head of a
powerful army composed of British soldiers
and troops of the Khedive, completely
overcame and subdued the fanatical rebels.
His victory was a most brilliant one and
caused the greatest rejoicing throughout the
British Empire, and indeed throughout the
civilized world.
	Like many another brave British leader
Kitchener is an Irishman by birth. It is
said that “he is a soldier by inheritance, by
training and by instinct.” He is forty-
eight years of age, tall, measuring full six
feet, and with the swarthy complexion that
would be but natural after years of exposure
to the tropical sun. Most of his service
has been in the far East, and he has ac-
quired a remarkable knowledge of Moham-
medan languages and tribes. This knowl-
edge has been of great service to him at
times. The following story is told as an
instance:
	“Two Arab date sellers were arrested as
suspected spies and confined in the guard
tent. Shortly after a third Arab prisoner
was hastily bundled into the tent. An
animated jabbering ensured among the
three and in a few minutes, much to the
astonishment, of the sentry, the latest ar-
rival drew aside the doorway and stepped
out, remarking, ‘All right, sentry, I’m
going to the General.’ It was Kitchener.
Again only a few minutes passed when an
orderly hurried up and a spade was handed
to the two Arabs, who were marched out-
side the lines, ordered to dig their graves,
and were shot. They were spies, and
Kitchener had detected them.”
	The glory of Kitchener’s successful and
splendid expedition consisted as much in
the way the soldiers were cared for under
adverse circumstances, as in the wonderful
fighting.
	Oudurman, a little north of Khartoum, is
the successor to that fallen city. General
Gordon expressed a preference for having
the capital at Oudurman, or even a little
farther north on the right bank of the Nile,
as the location of Khartoum was very un-
healthy and the cost of making it healthy
would be very great. It was at Oudurman
that the Khalefa’s army met with such ter-
rible slaughter. His men came bravely
forth to meet Kitchener’s Anglo-Egyptian
troops, but owing to the machine guns of
the English the massacre, was great. The
number of men of the Khalifa left dead on
the field has been variously estimated at
from five to twenty thousand.
	In the earlier stages of Kitchener’s ex-
pedition it was seriously feared that the
French were preparing to cut across from
their holdings in western Soudan to a point
on the Nile above Khartoum, at or about
Fashoda, for the sake of preventing the
English from going any further. “The
seriousness of such a proposition can only
be understood when one remembers the
peculiar nature of the Nile. If the French
were in full possession even at so remote a
point as Fashoda, they could at any time

[Column 2]
they chose so divert the water as to ruin
the whole of Egypt, which owes its life to
the periodical overflow and to irrigation.”
	This Fashoda affair threatened strained
relations for a time between England and
France. But the French now disclaim it
as anything but a private exploring party,
that there was no disposition in any quarter
to oppose the further advance of the Eng-
lish. And it is further stated that when
Kitchener arrived at Fashoda he found
Major Marchand there with only seven or
eight white men and a handful of native
Africans.
	It has been estimated that the victory of
the United States over Spain resulted in the
material improvement of 8,000,000 people in
the Phillipines, and 2,000,000 or more in
the West Indies.
	Kitchener’s splendid expedition brought
even greater succor and blessings to the
million of human beings in Eastern Soudan.
The fanatical movement of the Mahdi’s
resulted in the absolute closing up of one of
the most prosperous regions of the whole
African continent, a region at that time oc-
cupied by no less than 12,000,000 people.
This population was reduced to about one
half, agriculture and trade destroyed and
the country desolated. Happier and more
prosperous times may now be looked for.
There seems to be nothing in the Way
now of Cecil Rhodes great project of build-
ing a through railroad from Capetown to
Cairo.
	Kitchener is unmarried and will have no
married officers under him. He is a strict
disciplinarian, of impassive countenance.
And while his manners do not win the love
of his men, he has their profoundest respect
and sincerest admiration. He is described
as quiet but clever, and perhaps his severe
life and strict necessities have made him
apparently cold and stern. At all events
he is a great general and the pride of the
British people.
	After the victory in the Soudan, Kitchen-
er visited England accompanied by some of
his English and Egyptian officers. They
were received with unbounded enthusiasm,
being banqueted and toasted and in a
general way made to feel the great esteem
and appreciation in which they were held.
						E. S. W.


NIGHT WINDS.

The cold night wind is moaning
	And sighing amid the trees;
It flies o'er the wooded highland
	And sinks o’er the downy leas.
It catches the sails of the vessel
	That ploughs through the ocean wide;
And wafts its streamers landward
	With the strong and rolling tide.
But O, how it sobs at the window,
	And wails as it rushes by;
Like cries of the souls of the lost ones,
	Who trembled and feared to die.
Far away in the dreary distance
	I hear it sighing still,
And my heart but echoes t[-]e sadness
	That nothing of heart can fill.
And now it groans like the living
	When life’s faint spark has fled;
As they bow in deepest sorrow
	Around the newly dead.
And now it sounds like music
	From a harp of a thousand strings;
And then like sweetest melody
	That earthly chorus sings.
Now it sounds like a living thing
	That is haunted and full of pain;
And then it weeps for the doomed ones,
	Whose sins arise again.
And then it laughs in derision,
	And mocks at human woe;
Then rushing it reaches the mountains,
	Then over to valleys below.
And now like a saddening memory
	It calls up the troubled Past;
A harvest of hopes that were blighted,
	Too radiant and sunny to last.
Now again it cries like an infant,
	And now is mad with glee;—
O, God save the father fishermen
	Far out on the stormy sea.
This wind is playing with heartstrings,
	As it roams abroad tonight;
O, pray that the storm-tossed mariner
	May see the morning’s light.
Down by the open fireplace
	Sits Fear, so pallid and cold;
While the wind is rattling the window,
	In its dance of the demons bold.
But O, when it sobs like the human
	I think my heart will break!
Then out in the deepest darkness
	Steals a prayer for the wanderer's sake.
Again it sounds like an army
	Marching and tramping along;
Now the thunder of heavy cannon,
	Is heard with the victor’s song.


Then over the hills in the distance 
	The sound is lost and gone;
While brightening far to the eastward 
	Comes the morning pale and wan.
Now its moans are fast receding,
	As it softly goes to sleep;
In the rock-bound, foaming caveens
	Of the mighty ocean’s deep.
				LYDIA D. ALDER


CONTENTS:
	Khartoum and Sir Horatio Herbert Kitchener
—E. S. W. Sister Horne’s Birthday—E. J. S.
Visit to California—Hattie M Nye. Reorganiza-
tion—Abby A. Piggott. San Francisco Letter—
Rhoda C. Nash. Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting
J. S. Woolley, Sec. In Memoriam Obituary.
The Bon Marche—S. L. Margaret Chanler and
Anna Bouling. Colorado goes on Record.
U. W. P. C.—L. D. Alder, Act. Sec.
	EDITORIAL:—Official Notice. The Triennial.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Night Winds—Lydia D. Alder.
History of the Silk Worm—M. V. N Hall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
SISTER HORNE’S BIRTHDAY.
	Sunday, November 20, the 80th birth-
day of our beloved and respected Stake
president, Sister M. I. Horne. The day
is quite emblematic—the snow coming
down so pure and white is like what her
grand life has been. To me it was very
pleasing to see so large a congregation as-
sembled at the Assembly Hall yesterday
to celebrate the birth and do honor to one
who has done so much good, and to listen
to the remarks made by the different
speakers. 
	It will be forty-four years next month
since I first met Sister Horne in company
at the home of President John Taylor’s
father, many notable persons being present;
but when introduced to Sister Horne I was
forcibly struck with her motherly appear-
ance and kindly countenance.
	Having lived within a block from her
from that time until she moved from
the Fourteenth ward, I have had ample
opportunity to become acquainted with her.
To me she has been a model woman,
thoroughly domesticated, but modest and

[Column 2]
unassuming. I became identified with the
Relief Society at its reorganization after the
move South, Sister Horne being chosen
president, having previously been coun-
selor to Sister Phebe W. Woodruff. I well
remember how unassuming and gentle she
always seemed in conducting the affairs of
the society, yet firm in all her ways, but
never any arrogance so characteristic of
some. I do not forget how she would in-
tercede with the sisters to do their duty and
laid plans, and persevered in having the
society hall built there; that being com-
pleted paid for and dedicated, how she again
planned for the building of a granary.
President Young counseled each society to
build a hall and a granary as soon as prac-
tiable. She did not procrastinate but
called on the brethren to assist and they re-
sponded. That being accomplished, paid
for and dedicated, she then instructed the
society teachers each fall to gather donations
for wheat; and the motherly care she be-
stowed over that grain!
	I well remember on one occasion in talk-
ing to the sisters having so much to accom-
plish how she plead with them saying,
“Sisters, this is not my society, but our
society.” That went right home. I felt
that I was willing to do any thing in my
power to assist that noble woman; and
many more reminiscences I might mention.
Her family is an example to the community.
What a Heavenly blessing! but that wo-
man honored her husband, and her husband
honored her. I have always felt that this
was the secret of their success. While
raising her family she was content to stay
at home and attend to her first duty, and
not trust those God-given treasures to the
care of others. And now, behold the second
mission she has filled.
	My young sisters, let us emulate her ex-
ample, and let us lead our children to be-
gin the right way, and then continue doing
so. Let us teach our sons to honor their
wives, our daughters to honor their hus-
bands, that peace and content may abide in
the homes of the Saints.
	Oh, what a mission there is for each and
all of us if we will but fill it! May heaven’s
richest blessings rest upon Sister Horne and
all apertaining to her and may the
mementoes presented to her yesterday be-
token her sisters’ good feelings and be a
comfort to her; and may she live in peace
and happiness and continue her labors of
love until she is satisfied with life, is the
sincere desire of one who loves to honor her
and desires to testify to her goodness, hav-
ing known and labored with her so many
years.
						E. J. S.


A German biologist has calculated that
the human brain contains 300,000,000 nerve
cells, 5,000,000 of which die and are suc-
ceeded by new ones every day. At this
rate, assuming the correctness of the Ger-
man’s guess, we get an entirely new brain
every sixty days.—Medical Record.
	The statement by some of the daily press
that the Daughters of the Revolution ad-
mit collateral descendants of revolutionary
patriots is effectually disposed of by the
following extract from their constitution:
	Article III., Section I.—Qualifications.
Any woman shall be eligible to member-
ship in the Daughters of the Revolution
who is above the age of eighteen years, of
good character, and a lineal descendant of
an ancestor, who, etc.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO CALIFORNIA.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	The souls of the Saints, especially the
sisters of the Relief Society throughout this
mission, have been made to rejoice by
reason of the fact that we have received a
visit from Sister Jane S. Richards of Ogden.
During the latter part of December Sister
Richards accompanied her son, Hon. C. C.
Richards, and wife who were seeking health
and rest and came to Los Angeles. While
there Sister Richards visited the Relief
Society of the branch of the Saints of that
city and had an opportunity of seeing a lit-
tle how they were getting along, and of in-
structing them along the line of Relief
Society work as it is carried on in Zion.
	We have a good society in Los Angeles.
Sister Woollacott, now visiting her daugh-
ter in Salt Lake City, is the president and
she has a good company of officers and
members considering the size and strength
of the branch. They are devoted to the
work of the Lord and are faithful workers
in the society. The president is a good
leader among women and by her wise and
careful management and the hearty support
rendered by the society they have always
got money in the treasury with which to
assist the needy. Sister Richards did much
to encourage and strengthen them in their
noble work.
	About the 24th of January President
Franklin D. Richards honored us by a
visit to this mission and arrived in San
Diego, Sister Richards having reached there
a few days before. On the 26th they to-
gether attended the Relief Society meeting
which convened in the house of Brother
Charles H. Hoag, the branch president,
and though they were few in number, yet
when President Jewel had conducted the
opening services and Sister Richards pro-
ceeded in that wondrously kind and plea-
sant way so peculiar to her to tell them of
the trials and afflictions through which the
Saints had to pass in the days of the Prophet
Joseph and the early days of Utah, of the
blessings of the Lord that had been show-
ered down upon them as a reward for their
obedience and devotion, and of the present
standard of usefulness they have attained
through their untiring labors in the great
work, the sisters listened with rapt atten-
tion the while, the love of God enkindled
in their hearts, filling their souls with light
and joy and causing a sense of deep appre-
ciation of the Gospel to fill them such as
they had never before experienced. The
spirit of the Almighty accompanied the
words of dear Sister Richards in a most re-
markable way as she dwelt upon the earlier
scenes of the Church. President Richards
spoke words of comfort and blessing to all.
	On the Sabbath besides attending regular
services in the hall Sister Richards met with
the Primary Association at the home of
Sister Gabrelson, and there after the exer-
cises of the little ones, which were indeed
most creditable both to the children and to
Sister Buehorn who has charge of them,
she talked to these little ones until she won
a place in their dear little hearts that she
will retain while they live.
	After spending about ten days in that re-
nowned but greatly over estimated health
resort, San Diego, the party consisting of
President F. D. Richards, Sister Jane S.
Richards and their son Charles and wife re-
turned to Los Angeles, the latter on their
way to Utah, while the president and wife

[Column 2]
remained and attended the meetings of the
Saints on the Sabbath at 245 1/2 South Spring
Street. This branch through the untiring
efforts of the Elders who have labored here
and the blessings of the Lord has grown
and increased in numbers and is our strong-
est branch in the mission, numbering about
one hundred and thirty members. There
is a good Relief Society, Mutual Improve-
ment Association and Sabbath School, all
in splendid condition.
	Brother and Sister Richards attended the
Sabbath School and the meeting that fol-
lowed, it being fast day, and mingled their
testimonies with those of the Saints, and
their soul-inspiring words were as precious
gems to the Saints, many of whom had
never before listened to the sound of the
voice of a living Apostle.
	When the visit at Los Angeles was ended
the party took train for San Francisco, and
the headquarters of the California mission
became the resting place of our beloved
Sister Jane S. Richards and her husband.
Be assured, dear editor, we all regarded
ourselves as highly honored in having the
privilege of entertaining such distinguished
persons as an Apostle of the Lord and his
precious life companion. This may sound
somewhat strange to some of the readers of
the “Exponent,” but if they had to spend
their time among the wicked and ungodly
in the midst of a mess of man made re-
ligions, the principal elements of which are
doubt and uncertainty, they would learn,
perhaps, as we have, to appreciate the
privilege of beholding a servant of the true
and living God, and of listening to the
words of life and salvation from his mouth.
	The Relief Society of the branch in this
city, of which Sister Rattenbery is the
president, convened on Thursday at 3 p. m.
at the mission house, and after some local
matters had been attended to Sister Rich-
ards addressed the meeting, and I would
that we could give a verbatim report of her
speech and that of President Richards who
followed, if for no other purpose than that
we might have them to refer to here, for
they sparkled with gems of thought crystal-
ized into words which as they fell upon the
ear caused the souls of all that heard them
to thrill with joy.
	A surprise party was projected by the
sisters so that the president and his wife
could see how the San Francisco Saints con-
ducted such gatherings. On Thursday
evening about 8 p. m. the mission house
was besieged by the attacking party which
soon gained an entrance and filled the house
to its utmost capacity. Over a hundred
were present. A program of songs, reci-
tations, etc., and then a speech from Presi-
dent Richards, smiling faces, happy hearts
and love abounded.
	Brother and Sister Richards visited the
homes of some of the Saints, Sister Collins
of this city, Sister Sumner of Oakland, and
then took their departure for Sacramento
where on Sunday the 12th they met with
the Sabbath School and forenoon meeting,
and then at 3 p m. with the Relief Society
at the home of Sister Smith, 405 15th St.
Sister Fanny H. Thackham, the president,
in an appropriate manner welcomed the
visitors from Zion. The sisters all testified
to their love of the Gospel, and of their de-
termination to remain steadfast to the end.
Sister Richards strewed pearls of pricely
value in her speech, among them such as
will be remembered by all who were pres-
ent for many a day, while President Rich-
ards spoke forth words of encouragement

[Column 3]
and blessing. In the evening at our regu-
lar hall President Richards was the speak-
er and he delivered a good sermon to Saints
and investigators who had gathered in to
hear the word of God. On the day follow-
ing President and Sister Richards took their
leave for their home in Ogden.
	We in this land of sunshine and flowers,
of drouth and earthquake, of Christian
churches and infidel congregations, of
gigantic ideas and small souled Christian
ministers, deeply appreciate a visit from the
tried and trusted leaders of the true Church
of Christ.
				HATTIE M. NYE.


HISTORY OF  HE S[-]LK WORM.

'Twas the 13th of May in 1898,
We are quite sure about the date,
For on that day the first worms hatched,
And on the 14th the second batch.
On the 15th no worms did gladden our sight[-]
But on the 16th a fine lot came out all right;
On the 17th only a very small lot,
But on the 18th they made it hot.
On the 19th of May our hatch was ended,
And with hopes and fears continually blended
Lest they should be too hot or too cold,
Our trials and troubles can scarce be told.
We were up every morn when the clock struck
	five,
For an early feed would make them thrive,
'Twas gather leaves here, and gather leaves
	there,
With never a moment to sit on a chair
At first on one row they nicely lay,
But on one row they would not stay,
But quickly spread to a dozen or more,
While our labors were increased fourscore.
But just when we thought we couldn't live,
For the constant cry of the worms was Give
Oh give me leaves, or you will see,
Not an ounce of silk will we make for thee.
On the 27th of June, on the end of a shelf,
We found what to us was better than pelf,
'Twas a single fibre, or silken thread,
This told the tale and ended the dread,
That had entered our souls, our work was
	done.
No longer now from sun to sun,
Must we gather leaves, but down on a chair
We can quietly sit, and stare and stare,
At the worms while they hide themselves from
	sight,
Rolled up in a ball so snug and tight.
This ends the story of the silk worm's life,
Composed of hope and fear, joy and strife.
M. V. N. HALL.


New and hygienically constructed tele-
phone stations have been provided in Vien-
na, and with them has come a reform in
the dress of the telephone girl. Experience
has proved that the dust lodging on the
clothes of the girls gets into the instruments
and interferes with the effectiveness of the
service. To avoid this the girls are now
required to wear a uniform during office
hours. On their arrival they doff their
street clothes, even their boots, and substi-
tute dresses provided by the government.
The dresses are made of stuff like that most
used for dust cloaks. They are dark in
color, and on the sleeves are yellow stripes,
in imitation of the national colors. Chicago
has adopted the same method to reduce
dust in the operating rooms.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street, Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p.m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter. 

SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 15 & MAR. 1, 1899.


OFFICIAL NOTICE.

	At a special meeting of the Board of
Directors of the National Woman’s Relief
Society held March 7, in room 208 Temple-
ton building, (more than the required num-
ber for the transaction of business being
present), when the subject of ways and
means was being considered, a motion was
made by Mrs. Martha A. Cannon of Ogden
and seconded by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp of
Salt Lake City, that all money raised by
local branches of the Relief Society on the
17th of March over the ten cent member-
ship of each member enrolled in the society,
should be retained by the respective society.
Motion was put by President Zina D. H.
Young and carried unanimously,
	(Signed) ZINA D. H. YOUNG, President.
EMMELINE B WELLS Secretary.
	National Woman's Relief Society.


[Column 1]
THE TRIENNIAL.

SOME OF THE WOMEN, SUBJECTS,
DISCUSSIONS AND REPORTS.

	The women from Utah who went to
Washington in February to attend the
Triennial sessions of the National Council
of Women of the United States, have had
an interesting experience to say the least,
especially those who went as presidents
(proxies,) delegates and members of the
Resolution Committee. As every one knows
who has been connected with such great
national bodies, the hard work and really
most important is done in committees.
	Speech making is comparatively easy, more
especially so when prepared beforehand,
which the addresses certainly should be on
any given subject, and not written at odd
moments or on the way as some very busy
people are apt to do in the hurry that
comes from overwork. If one accustomed
to public duty might be permitted to sug-
gest the advice would be to take the ut-
most pains with the papers to be given as ad-
dresses to an audience of cultured people.
Random shots come in occasionally, but it is
the steady, deliberate firing that accom-
plishes the objects seriously undertaken.
	The Resolution Committee consisted of
one member from each organization belong-
ing to the Council and numbered twenty-
five persons, representing various shades of
opinion on many vital subjects, Rev. Anna
Garlin Spencer, Providence, R. I., chair-
man; Ann M. Cannon, Salt Lake City,
Utah, secretary.

[Column 2]
	The stormy weather was a hindrance to
the members arriving in time, although
eight of the Utah ladies arrived in time to
attend the business session Saturday eve-
ning, the 11th. The following day there
was a blinding snow storm which kept
pedestrians within doors and very few car-
riages appeared on the streets. The papers
published the names of all the ladies who
attended church, the weather was so in-
clement. Snow continued to fall during
the night and the wind increased in violence
and on Monday morning there were only a
few to attend the opening of the Council.
Business of importance, however, was
transacted and lunch served in the rooms
in the church at a nominal price. The
storm had been continuous thro’ the day
and the wind blew fiercely, and when the
time for adjournment came the query was
how to get to hotels or boarding places.
Carriages with drivers that dared venture
out were taken by those who could get to
them first, and some living only a short dis-
tance ventured to walk at great risk. Such
adventures as were told in the papers after-
wards had never before transpired in Wash-
ington. On the streets men with handker-
chiefs over their faces were buffeting the
snow and wind, their hats flying hither and
thither.
	Some of the subjects considered and
papers read were "Christianity as Related to
Sociology," dealing with the practical side of
religion, by Mary Perkins Davis, Ocean
Park, Maine. “The Possibilities of Wo-
man,” by Martha Horne Tingey of Salt
Lake City, Utah, a paper which showed
earnest thought and advanced ideas of life.
“The Social Conscience, in its Relation to
Industrial Problems,” by Mrs. Maud Nath-
an of New York City. It is one of the vital
questions of the present day and the speak-
er showed earnest feelings in her dealings
with the matter in question, and that she
was thoroughly acquainted with industrial
conditions, and dealt eloquently and heroic-
ally with actual facts. “The Tree of
Knowledge of Good and Evil," by Miss
Sadie American of Chicago was perhaps the
most unique as a whole of any paper pre-
sented. Miss American is very original in
her work and deals mainly with actual facts
in a positive manner. "The Retrogression
in Equal Rights,” by Susan B. Anthony,
who never fails to make strong points in
the most forcible manner, and who is al-
ways in touch with her audience and never
fails to create enthusiasm whatever views
people may entertain as to the subject mat-
ter of her address. “The Beginning of
Literature and Art in America,” by Mrs.
Maria Purdy Peck of Dubuque, Iowa, was
a charming address on a delightful theme.
St. Hilda of Whitby—“How Abbesses
were Educators and Civilizers,” by Mary
Newbury Adams, was one of the most
delightful and soulful papers given, the
speaker herself, a most charming woman;
but one hesitates to particularize where there
were so many capable, cultivated, intellec-
tual women. "Good Citizenship," by Mrs.
E. B. Wells of Utah. “Is the Church
Universal a Hindrance or a Help to the
Development of Womankind?” by Eliza-
beth B. Grannis of New York.
	The papers for discussion were of very
great interest, especially upon vital ques-
tions. One of the subjects was “Is Ex-
pansion for the Best Good of our Country?"
Affirmative, Judith Ellen Foster, District of
Columbia; Negative, Cornelia S. Robinson,
New York. The same evening “The Wo-

[Column 3]
men of Hawaii,” by Susa Young Gates, a
very ably written and exhaustive paper on
the conditions, customs and ethics of the
natives, and some expression of real life by
Hannah Kaepapa, the pretty custom of
the laie was given in an object lesson on
the platform by seven very handsome
wreaths being presented to the ladies of the
general officers by Mrs. Gates and the
native lady. Mrs. Sewall, the president,
Dr. Shaw, the vice president, and the
other officers gracefully acknowledging the
courtesy by wearing them the entire eve-
ning. “Equality, the most Potent Conserv-
ator of Human Rights,” by Ida M. Weaver
of Idaho. "Fraternal Life Benefit Societies
as Social Institutions,” Bina M. West,
Michigan.
	There was also a Symposium on "What
should be the Attitude of the Women of
the United States toward the Peace Confer-
ence proposed by the Czar?" This awak-
ened universal interest and was eloquently
emphasized and elaborated by Rev. Anna
Garlin Spencer of R. I., Carrie Thomas,
Alexander, Ill., Kate Waller Barrett, D.
C., and Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, Penn.
“The Relation Between the Council and
Peace and Arbitration," by Rev. Amanda
Deyo, Penn., was one of the most interest-
ing in the general discussion. “How can
Women Aid in Municipal Reform?”
These discussions were all very educational
and carried on sympathetically, each speak-
er having a certain number of minutes.
	Reports of organizations were also of
great interest and much appreciated, as
they showed the growth and progress of the
various associations during the period since
the last Triennial in 1895. These were
from the following societies: National
Free Baptist Woman’s Missionary Society,
Mary G. Osgood, New Hampshire: Uni-
versal Peace Union, Rev. Amanda Deyo;
Working Woman’s Home Association Dr.
Mary E. Green, Michigan; The Woman’s
National Press Association, Ellen S. Crom-
well, D. C.; Florence Crittenden Missions,
Kate Waller Barrett, D. C.; National Wo-
man’s Relief Society, Zina Young Card,
Utah; Wimodaughsis, Ada G. Dickerson,
D.C.; National Christian League for the
Promotion of Social Purity, Elizabeth
B Grannis, New York; National Woman’s
Christian Temperance Union, Lillian M.
N. Ste ens, Maine; Supreme Hive Ladies of
the Maccabees of the World, Lillian M.
Hollister, Michigan; Rathbone Sisters of
the World, Ida M. Weaver, Idaho; Nation-
al Mutual Improvement Association, Min-
nie J. Snow, Utah; National American
Woman’s Suffrage Association, Rachel
Foster Avery; National Council of Jewish
Women, Hannah G. Solomon, Ill.; Nation-
al Association of Women Stenographers,
Mrs. Maddox; Anti Vivisection Society,
Mrs. Lovell, Quincy, Ill.
	There were reports from local councils
and state councils affiliated, and fraternal
delegates introduced from organizations and
councils not yet affiliated; also reports of
standing committees which were quite as
interesting as those of society work. Com-
mittees on Education in Citizenship, by
Fannie Humphreys Gaffney, New York,
and Press Committee, Susa Young Gates,
Utah. On Social Peace and International
Arbitration, Hannah G. Solomon, Ill.
	The ideas, aims and grasp of knowledge
embodied in these addresses and reports and
the discussious which intervened, the in-
formation and instruction given, and the
educational facilities afforded, are far great-


er than one can possibly imagine who has
not been present in person, with mind and
soul susceptible to the uplifting influences
that flow from high intellectuality and in-
telligence of a superior order. The value
of the National Council cannot be estimated,
the movement of this great body of women
of diverse views and opinions, and a great
variety of dissimilarity of tastes and char-
acteristics coming together on the momen-
tous questions of the day and agreeing to
disagree, is an object lesson for the world.
	The letter of Mrs. Mary Lowe Dickinson,
the president during this last Triennial un-
til forced by her illness and the protestations
of her physician to resign, was one of the
striking features of the session, in its pathos
speaking heart to heart, and its expressions
of what the Council would have been to
her had she not from force of circumstances
been obliged to withdraw from the position.
	The address of the retiring president Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, bristled with original
ideas and suggestions, as also did her “Rec-
ommendations to the Cabinet.” One might
write columns upon this subject, but as it
will be published in full for circulation
among members of organizations belonging
to the Council, all who wish will have an
opportunity to study its contents.
	The resolutions adopted, which were the
chief work of its committee, and the plans
laid out for the future furtherance of the
Council's work during the next three years
we must leave for the next issue of the
paper, also much that is interesting in mat-
ters not practically essential to the Council
itself, as well as the blockades, blizzards,
delayed trains, and minor items.
	The two living presidents who have filled
terms of office were made Honorary Presi-
dents with a vote. They are Mary Lowe
Dickinson and May Wright Sewall.
	The new officers elected were, Prest.,
Fannie Humphreys of New York City;
Vice Prest., Maria Purdy Peck, Dubu-
que, Iowa; Cor. Sec., Mrs Kate Waller
Barrett, Washington, D. C.; Rec. Sec.,
Rev. Anna Garlin Spencer, R. I.; Asst.
Rec. Sec., Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake
City, Utah; Treasurer, Hannah G. Solo-
mon, Chicago.
	Members of the Cabinet are not yet ap-
pointed, nor any new standing committees.
The idea of grouping the societies under
certain departments has been advanced
and may be acted upon. The next busi-
ness session will be held in November of
the present year at Indianapolis, Indiana.
	Meantime the International Council in
London will hold its Quinquennial, and the
National Council of the United States will
have its quota of representation Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, the late president of the
Council will be installed as president of
the International Council. Miss Susan B.
Anthony and Dr. Anna H. Shaw are the
delegates from the National Council.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 109


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Stake secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety in all the several Stakes of Zion and of
missions or branches of the Relief Society
where Stakes are not organized, are hereby
requested to send statistical and financial re-
ports for the entire year of 1898, to the
general secretary, room 208 Templeton
building, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
		E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.

	The Utah Legislature is drawing to a


close, and much of the valuable time has
been frittered away in voting for a Senator
to little or no purpose. It is very undigni-
fied and unsatisfactory to the people who
elected them to waste so much time in
complimentary and uncomplimentary speech
making, and delay serious matters which
should have been acted upon.
	President Jane S. Richards who recently
visited California gives a most interesting
account of the branches of the ReliefSociety
in that state. She speaks in the highest
terms of praise of the untiring efforts of the
sisters in their labors of love and the good
spirit enjoyed by them, in which she par-
ticipated. The pleasure they expressed in
her being present and speaking encourag-
ingly to them in their society meetings is
deeply felt and warmly appreciated by Sis-
ter Richards, whose love for the work of
the Relief Society stimulates her to under-
take much more than her delicate health
would warrant. To the writer in the office
of the “Exponent” she expressed the most
loving tenderness, interest and sympathy in
all the sisters in these branehes, and it is her
ardent desire to have them feel their good
works are appreciated in Zion.
	We must express our great satisfaction in
meeting with many dear old friends while
absent in the East, and among others Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who is more
beautiful than any picture of her could be
made, for she shows the eloquent beauty of
the soul within, and her soft white hair in
the loose puffs is like a halo above her
sweet, tender, motherly face. She con-
verses as pleasantly as ever and is as bril-
liant and witty as in her palmiest days.
We shall never forget in time or eternity
how grandly Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anth-
ony received the first Utah delegates, (Mrs.
Wells aud Mrs, Williams) in the Conven-
tion at Washington in January, 1879, and
we shall always honor these two noble wo-
men, the grandest types of American
womanhood. 
	Another dear old friend who plead our
cause most eloquently in those days long
ago, and whom we always make a point of
calling upon when we go to Washington,
D. C., is Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer who
should never be forgotten by the Latter-
day Saints; she has been a staunch friend,
and manifested her valor in the hour of
greatest need, and when strong men were
less courageous in defense of the right.


REORGANIZATION.
	Minutes of the annual meeting of the 8th
ward Relief Society held February 4th,
1899, Vice President S. J. Chamberlain
presiding. The secretary called the roll,
after which the vice president stated that
the business of the meeting was to hear the
annual reports and the election of officers,
(on account of the death of the president,
Kathrine K. Palmer) for the ensuing two
years. The reports were read and approved.
Sarah J. Chamberlain was elected president;
Ann Cartwright, 1st vice president; Martha
A. Shelmerdine, 2nd vice president; Abby
A. Piggott, secretary; Elizabeth C. Frost,
treasurer, the vote in each case being
unanimous. Martha Morris was elected to
fill the vacancy in the board of trustees
caused by Martha A. Shelmerdine being
chosen vice president. Anna E. Hunter
and Louie Chamberlain were received as


members of the society. It was moved and
seconded that the minutes be accepted as
read; carried.
	ABBY A. PIGGOTT, Sec.


SAN FRANClSCO LETTER.

Dear Sister Wells:

	It may be of interest to some of the read-
ers of the “Exponent” to know that in far
off San Francisco there are a few Saints
who are striving assiduously for that goal
which the precious truths of the Gospel has
placed within the reach of suffering, strug-
gling humanity, viz., the salvation of the
soul.
	There are but few, comparatively speak-
ing, who have been gathered from the sin
and temptation existing in this great city,
the enormity of which none can conceive
except those who have lived here and per-
sonally observed the conditions existing
morally, spiritually and socially; and when
we consider that out of three hundred
thousand people the Saints number probab-
ly two hundred all told, we cannot but con-
clude that the good seeds which fell by the
wayside have, been almost entirely choked
out by the thrifty growth of the tares.
	* * *
	There are many who do not sense the
imminent danger which threatens them;
they are blind to the fact that there is a
future in which the immutable decree has
gone forth that“all men must be judged ac-
cording to the deeds done in the body,”
but are content to drift along with the tide,
ministering to the selfish, sensual appetites
which are generated and encouraged by
luxurious living, seeking only the pleasures
of today, uninfluenced by the possibility of
a tomorrow.
	To cast aside the every day routine of
worldly pleasures and become a follower of
Jesus Christ is a sacrifice but few can make,
albeit, those who have become Saints are
sincere, honest, earnest people.
	This branch of the Latter-day Saints is
in a prosperous condition and ably presided
over by President Woodward. Our meet-
ings are fairly attended, especially on Sun-
day evenings. Usually the congregation is
so large it is necessary to arrange extra
seats for the accomodation of all present.
The visitors are attentive, and as a rule
seem to be a class of people who come for
information and not to disturb.
	Sister Ratenbury, a lady possibly re-
membered by many of the old residents of
Salt Lake City for her ability to quote
Shakespeare, has the Relief Society in
charge, and not only the poor and needy
are ministered to by this organization but
also the Elders, whose clothes are reno-
vated and hosiery restored to a useful con-
dition by the sisters on their work days.
	The M. I. Associations are under the
control of Brother Collins and Sister Cum-
mings, formerly of Salt Lake City, and are
completely organized and fully equipped for
mutual improvement.
	The little ones bright and active, ready
and willing to assist, by their little efforts in
making their flourishing organization on an
equality with the ideal Primaries of Utah,
are presided over by Sister Woodward, wife
of President Woodward.
	Indeed the Saints are all zealous, earnest
workers, striving for the same grand prize
which ultimately is received by all those
who live faithfully and according to the
commandments of Him who rewardeth


liberally and upbraideth not. It is gratify-
ing beyond words to know that although
separated from the nucleus of Christ’s King-
dom the subjects thereof are loyal and faith-
ful, and whose impetus to right and proper
living is that grandest and most glorious of
rewards, eternal life.
				Your sister.
					RHODA C. NASH
	San Francisco, Feb. 27, 1899.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Ladies’ Semi-monthly meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall January 21,1899,
with Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.
Singing “Guide us O, Thou Great Jehovah.”
Prayer by Counselor Webb. Singing, “O
say what is truth.” Minutes read and ac-
cepted. Sister Annie T. Hyde stated that
President Horne was not able to be present
but that Sister Priscilla J. Riter had been
chosen to be superintendent of the nurses
who had been trained for Relief Society
work by Dr. Roberts, that President Horne
had sent a letter suggesting that a com-
mittee be appointed to solicit for bedding
etc., also to visit the drug stores and see
what discount they would give on drugs, or
anything that might be needed in their line.
Said, “Sister Riter will engage the nurse,
and she will go out under her direction and
report to her when through. Sister Riter
will visit the sick at least once.” Sister
Hyde advised the nurses to make them-
selves competent and desirable help.
	Sister Riter addressed the meeting a few
moments. Said she felt it a great responsi-
bility that had been placed upon her, and
also wished to have the support of the
nurses as she expected to give them hers.
Advised them to be united and forgiving.
Told them she did not want them to be
overburdened, but come and talk over with
her any dissatisfaction that might exist
while in her employ.
	Dr. Roberts hoped the strong bond of
love would exist between Sister Riter and
the nurses that existed between herself and
these students. Hoped all would start out
on a two years’ mission, and do anything
that was necessary for the comfort of the
sick, rise above annoyances and criticisms.
"It is understood the sick can have prefer-
ences and express them in regard to the
nurse, but no nurse is expected to go out
without being under the direction of Sister
Riter.”
	A sewing meeting was appointed for
February 3, in the Relief Society hall in
the 14th ward.
	Counselor Stevenson praised the Lord
that the sick could thus be provided with
nurses. She felt that the hand of the Lord
was in this work. Desired all to pray for
the recovery of President Horne.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Benediction by Sister Clara C. Cannon.

Minutes of Semi-monthly meeting held
February 11, 1899, in the 14th ward hall,
Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding. Sing-
ing, “O, Jesus the Giver.” Prayer by
Sister E. Paul. Singing, “O, awake my
slumbering minstrel. Minutes read and
approved.
	Counselor Stevenson said she was sorry
President Horne was not able to come to-
day. Spoke of having visited the Relief
Society conference of Pocatello. Though
they did not have the advantages we have
they seemed as if they were advancing fast-
er than we were in some things. They

[Column 2]
were surrounded by some who were not of
our faith; had the privilege of converting
some. Advised mothers to. take the Juve-
nile and good literature, and exhorted them
to be humble and God fearing.
	Sister Barnes gave some good, motherly
advice. Sister Julia C. Howe said we met
to be strengthened by the spirit of God, we
were surrourided bymany temptations,
especially the young people, and it is neces-
sary to put safe guards around them. She
often wondered what she would do without
the Relief Society, thought it so necessary
that our young people should attend their
meetings, and also to interest the young
ladies in the Relief Society. Spoke of the
great responsibilities of mothers in rearing
their children.
	Sister Liddle realized that her greatest
trial had proved to be her greatest blessing.
Exhorted all to be patient and acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things. He is
angry with none except those who will not
acknowledge his hand in all things.
	Sister Rawlings bore a faithful testimony.
Congregation sang “All is well.”
	Sister L. D. Alder advised mothers to
pray and have prayers with their children.
Prayer is the corner stone, nothing will
make us happier than visiting our mar-
ried childrens’ homes and seeing them meet
around the family altar night and morning.
Said we must be careful and not do any-
thing that brings trial upon the missionaries
as anything and everything that is done in
Utah is exaggerated and misrepresented in
the papers and carried to different parts of
the earth.
	Sister Elizabeth Brown testified to the
power of prayer, made other good remarks.
	Sister Paul said words could not express
the gratitude of her heart for theGospel, she
was happy in her religion. Asked the sis-
ters to pray for their enemies and they
would not have power to do any harm.
	The congregation sang “Awake ye
defenders of Zion.” Other sisters bore
testimony and Sister Jane James said she
prayed for her enemies, for she knew they
must suffer.
	Sister Butterworth crossed the plains and
helped to drive cattle, but was happy
through it all, as she knew she was com-
ing to Zion. Sister Pond said she wanted
fo bear, a testimony of tithing. When her
husband was on a mission she paid her
tithing and the Lord had greatly blessed
her. Spoke of the inspiration of a Relief
Society president in Logan in regard to
Temple work.
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson spoke of
the experiences of the Saints, how it was
necessary we should have these ex-
periences. Told the Saints they must not
grieve too much over sorrows, it was not
pleasing to the Lord. Said these meetings
were organized for retrenchment, and let us
retrench in everything. When we have
sickness let us not call for doctors, but ask
the Lord to help us.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology, Benediction Annie T. Hyde.
				J.S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


The next annual meeting of the General
Society Daughters of the Revolution will be
held at Philadelphia during the week com-
mencing April 24.
	The General Society Daughters of the
Revolution recently donated $100 to the
Washington Memorial Association of Wash-
ton, D.C.


IN MEMORIAM.
ELIZABETH TIMPSON.

	The death of Sister Elizabeth Timpson
which occurred December 31, 1898, re-
moves from our midst a faithful laborer of
righteousness. Always cheerful and lov-
ing she early won the love of both old and
young, and her departure from this life is
a loss keenly felt by all who knew her.
	She was born in Oundle, Northampton,
England, March 15, 1838. She was the
wife of Wm. B. Timpson, who preceded
her in death thirty-five years. She had be-
come a member of the Church previous to
the death of her husband, and in 1868 with
a family of five small children came to
Utah. She has resided in Salt Lake City
ever since and for many years was a
member of the Sixteenth ward.
	Always ready and anxious to do good
she was among the first to become associated
with the Relief Society of the ward, and
became a teacher of the society and held
that position until her death, never falter-
ing in the good cause. Her loss will be
deeply felt by her colaborers, for although
of late years she has been very weak phy-
sically, yet her presence was always in-
spiring. It is needless to speak of her
goodness, for everywhere her works testify
of it, and she will never be forgotten by
her friends.
	For many years she held a prominent
position in the Sunday School, also in the
Primary Association, being president of
that association at the time of her death.
She loved the children and they in turn
loved her and greatly miss her at their
meetings.
	Notwithstanding her many duties she
never neglected her home and her children.
Sister Timpson leaves four sons and one
daughter, all of whom are now married and
have families of their own.
	Last spring Sister Timpson suffered from
an attack of pneumonia which left her in a
very weak state, but without serious results
until one week before her death At this
time some very astonishing incidents oc-
curred which are related by one of her sons
as follows:
	“For some little time,” said he, “mother
had been staying at the house of my aunt,
her sister, in the Seventh ward. On Fri-
day last mother told her sister that she was
going home, as she thought she had visited
long enough. My aunt tried to persuade
her to remain, because she was fond of her
company, but mother came home, and on
Monday told her sister not to think her
action strange. 'I wanted to come home
and die in my own bed,’ explained mother.
	“On Wednesday last we were called to the
bedside and mother bade us all good bye,
wishing us a happy new year. At 12 o’clock
noon, she passed through the throes of
death and the spirit had flown. All the
members of the family were present, as
were a number of friends, and they will
bear out my statement. Mother had been
dead for over fifteen minutes and we were
about to arrange for the proper care of the
remains when mother opened her eyes and
said, ‘O, what a good sleep I have had! I
wish I could tell you all I have seen, but I
can’t. I will say, though, that I have
suffered the pain of death and my spirit
has been separated from my body. I saw
a great many things, but am forbidden to
tell you of them. Your father has not
come for me yet, so I will remain with you


a little, just a little longer, and  when he
does come for me I shall go with him and
shall not return to you. What I saw, I
saw in the spirit, and what I say now I say
in the flesh. 
	“We were very much impressed with
what mother had said, the more so because
of her absolute rationality while making
the strange statement.
	“A similiar occurrence came again on
Thursday at noon, and we are all left in
wonder as to what it all meant. There
are people outside of our family who wit-
nessed the strange and unusual occurrence
and who are as much astonished as we are.
When mother died at 3 o’clock this morn-
ing we thought perhaps it was a repetition
of the two previous incidents, and for that
reason we made no move whatever towards
arrangements for care of the remains until
9 o’clock, six hours after death. A state-
ment made by mother after her first return
to life was proved when death came this
morning. On Wednesday she said ‘I have
suffered the pains of death, but when your
father comes and I leave you, I will go
peacefully and without pain.'
	“And so it was. Death came as an
angel of peace and there was not even a
sigh at dissolution.” 
	Sister Timpson has done a great work,
led the life of a noble woman and we feel
that she has gone to a great reward.
	RACHEL ISAACS, Pres.
	ELLA SELANDER, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
			ELIZABETH WEILER.
	It becomes our painful duty to record the death
of our beloved president, Sister Elizabeth Weiler,
who departed this life January 10, 1899. She was
born January 25, 1819, making her the ripe age of
eighty years within fifteen days. She
was president of the Relief Society of the 3rd
ward for thirty-one years on the day of her funer-
al, which was held on the 13th day of January,
1899.
	Sister Weiler was beloved of all her associates
for her gentleness, her integrity, her love of right
and her staunch faith in the Gospel of Christ. She
was a friend to the poor and the widow, and she
exhibited great wisdom in all of her counsels.
	During the thirty-one years of her presidency
in connection with her sisters she worked in per-
fect harmony. We recognize the death of our be-
loved president as the loss of a faithful, energetic
worker, a friend to those in need and a comforter
to those in distress. We esteem her faithful and
untiring labors and devotion to the interest of
Zion worthy the emulation of every member of
the society.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That we sympathize with the be-
reaved children, grandchildren and great grand-
children in the loss of a loving parent and a dear
friend.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be given to
her children, also that they be inscribed in the
records of the Relief Society, and that we pub-
lish them in the Woman’s Exponent
	ZURVIAH G. EARDLEY, Sec.


[Column 1]
THE BON MARCHE.
	What a fascination there is in the atmos-
phere of beautiful Paris! The gay butter-
fly life in the streets brilliant with life and
color.  The working classes—seldom with
hats or bonnets —live out of doors every
practicable moment, loitering aimlessly
about or chattering volubly together around
the tiny tables arranged on the broad walks
before the numerous restaurants. And the
streets are usually so beautifully clean, the
boulevards so wide and the parks so green.

[Column 2]
From the tops of the Arc de Triumph one
gets a view of fairyland.
	The Bon (good) Marche (market) is situ-
ated in the old portion of the city, the Latin
quarter, not far from the palace and beauti-
ful gardens of the Luxembourg, and while
there are other fine establishments of the
kind in Paris, the Bon Marche seems to 
hold the power of attracting the masses.
It draws all classes, from the peasant to the
princess of noble blood, and the fact that if
one should purchase under the stress of
strong temptation something which in one’s
cooler moments would prove unsatisfactory
or an unwise extravagance it could be re-
turned and the money refunded, has done
much in building up the enviable reputa-
tion of the house.
	The establishment of the Bon Marche,
specially constructed for a dry goods busi-
ness, is the largest, best organized and best
fitted up in the world. It contains all that
experience can suggest for convenience and
commodity, and is one of the most remark-
able sights of Paris. In 1863 Aristide
Bouciaut became sole proprietor where he
had entered ten years previously as partner.
He was certainly a man of the highest com-
mercial intelligence, but what contributed
to the success and to the immense increase
of his business was his spirit of enterprise,
the rectitude of his character and his great
benevolence. He not only founded a
powerful business house, he founded at the
same time a great humane work, a social
institution. He did not merely content
himself with the realization of profit, he ap-
plied himself above all to merit the confi-
dence of the public by universally acknowl-
edged integrity. He was supported by a
staff of superior employees, chosen with
care, governed paternally and organized
according to a just rule which accords ad-
vancement for services rendered, and per-
mits each one to aspire to the most im-
portant positions.
	The Provident fund founded by Aristide
Boucicaut, the Retiring Pension fund
founded by his wife and the Relief and
Pension fund premit all employees to await
with confidence the days of old age, while
many of them have purchased shares in the
business.
	The moral and intellectual condition has
not been neglected. Free evening classes
comprising the study of the English lan-
guage, vocal and instrumental music and
fencing have been instituted for their bene-
fit. Every year the most assiduous among
the pupils following the English classes are
sent to London at the expense of the house
for a period of six months to perfect them-
selves in the English language. A doctor
is engaged by the house and free consulta-
tions are given every morning at nine
o'clock. Women in confinement are
allowed one hundred francs (twenty dollars)
to defray the expense of a nurse.
	The Provident fund is supported by a
sum deducted annually from the profits of
the business. All employees in the house
five years become participators in its bene-
fits. Each member has an individual ac-
count opened in his or her name and is pro-
vided with a book indicating exactly the
amount to the credit of each one. This
amount is further increased by an annual in-
terest of four per cent on the individual
capital. Any lady clerk contracting mar-
riage, even though she leave the establish-
ment, is entitled to the full amount to her
credit. In 1876 the fund commenced with
a capital of 62,000 francs, which in 1895

[Column 3]
had increased to 2,286,215 francs, not in-
cluding the amount paid out to the various
participators.
	Madame Boucicaut after her husband’s
death, wishing to carry out his idea and to
provide for those who contribute to the suc-
cess of the Bon Marche, instituted the Re-
tiring Pension fund, endowing it with the
modest sum of 5,000,000 francs from her
personal fortune. Two hundred and thirty
old assistants have now actually retired and
are receiving pensions amounting to
216,000 francs per annum. It is a life pen-
sion and varies from 600 to 1500 francs per
annum.
	Employees called on for military service,
if on their return they can show an irre-
proachable military certificate, are re-
installed in their former positions.
	The picture and sculpture gallery is for 
the purpose of enabling artists to exhibit
their work free, thereby assisting many a
worthy person to enter into business re-
lation with the numerous patrons of the
Bon Marche. Copies are not accepted, only
the original works can be admitted. The
Bon Marche submits all offers made to the
artists, and demands neither hanging fee
nor pay of any kind.
	In the reading room (salon de lecture)
the French and leading foreign newspapers
are at the disposal of all visitors, as well as
abundant writing material, and every day
the immense table which extends from one
end of the long room to the other is sur-
rounded. Some are writing letters home,
some reading and others simply resting.
	Yes, and one needs a rest if one has tried
to enter at the main entrance about three
o'clock on a bright afternoon in the spring-
time as I did several times. The crush is
truly something awful. One is simply car-
ried along by a restless, surging tide of
femininity, and the noise, the buzz, the in-
cessant chatter, the per[-]ume, the tropical
garden of hats in a constantly moving pano-
rama, the magnificent display of dry goods
of every color and kind under the sun and
distributed about with a reckless prodigal-
ity that is exasperating to the woman of
limited means who for the time being de-
sires nothing so much as a pocketbook
equal in size to that of the Count of Monte
Cristo, is something to remember. What a
bewildering, artistically arranged mass of
everything calculated to attract, from the
poor working girl up, up to the ultra
fashionable woman, what woman could
leave the silk skirt department where they
are spread out before one by thousands, a
perfect rainbow of colors, beautifully made
and trimmed with ruffles, flounces and lace,
without a pang of regret.
	The entire building is mostly glass, for
the whole four sides are windows and the
roof is glass. Every window is a small
room in size and the goods so attractively
arranged as to be a poem in itself.
	The horses and delivery wagons are oh
the same gorgeous order. The horses are
sleek, fat and well groomed with harnesses
mounted with gold, the wagons red and
gold and black and gold, and there were
thirty-six wagons and about one hundred,
and fifty horses. Every morning about
eight o’clock they passed down the Rue de
Cherche Midi on their way from the stables
and it was a pleasing sight. I used to
watch for them and think how well they
were matched. Of course all did not leave
the stable in the early morning, the rest
were sent for as they were needed through-
out the day.


The Bon Marche differs from our dry
goods houses in that they have no cash girls
or boys. Every separate department has
its own desk and cashier and every time
a lady makes a purchase the clerk waiting on
her accompanies her to the desk where her
parcel is wrapped and she receives her
change, if she be so fortunate as to have
any coming to her.
	The crush in 1900 will doubtless be
greater than ever and the goods distributed
about with a recklessness never seen before,
therefore when we all go over to the Ex-
position let us do as Shakespeare so delight-
fully advises, “put money in our purses,"
for we shall be tempted as we never were
before, not only to purchase the where-
withal to enhance our natural attractiveness,
but in other departments such as bric-a-
brac, pictures, china, carpets and drapery,
table linen and drawn work and a thousand
and one other things too numerous to men-
tion.
	If I am lucky enough to put money into
my purse I’ll meet you all there and pilot
you to the very choicest spots in the whole
building.
S.L.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MARGARET CHANLER AND ANNA
			BOULING.
	Margaret Livingston Chanler and Annie
Bouling, heroic women who served with-
out pay as nurses in Porto Rico during the
late war, have been recommended for that
rare honor, the thanks of Congress. They
landed in Ponce July 31, and the same day
began nursing American and Spanish sick.
Miss Chanler, from her own purse, hired a
house and established a hospital for
American officers, and as the number of
sick grew, hired another and another until
she had three hospitals in operation at her
own expense. In September she turned
these hospitals over to the government
trained nurses, having first provided for
their rental and running expenses.
	The two brave women then went to
Coamo, nursing the sick there, and later to
San Juan, and as soon as San Juan was
under the American flag started a hospital
there. General Miles says their conduct
was most commendable and praisworthy.
	“Such noble and generous acts performed
under circumstances of great embarrassment
and danger of contracting fatal disease prev-
alent at that time,” he says, “our govern-
ment should recognize, and I recommend
that appropriate thanks be presented these
two women, and in the case of Miss Chan-
ler on account of her contributing so large-
ly and generously from her own private
fund without the least hope of ever being
remunerated, I further recommend that the
matter be brought to the attention of Con-
gress for such action as it may deem advis-
able.”
	The suggestion is endorsed by Secretary
Alger, who recommended suitable action
by Congress. It is probable the two wo-
men will be given medals and the thanks
of Congress.


COLORADO GOES ON RECORD.
	Upon the 30th of January there was
passed in the Colorado assembly by a vote
of 45 to 3, and the following day in the
Senate by a vote of 30 to 1, the following
resolution:


Whereas, Equal suffrage has been in
operation in Colorado for five years, during
which time women have exercised the
privilege as generally as men, with the re-
sult that better candidates have been selec-
ted for office, methods of election have been
purified, the character of legislation im-
proved, civic intelligence increased and
womanhood developed to greater usefulness 
by political responsibility, therefore be it
	Resolved, By the House of Representa-
tives, the Senate concurring, that in view
of these results, the enfranchisement of wo-
men in every state and territory in the
American Union is recommended as a
measure tending to the advancement of a
higher and better social order.
That an authenticated copy of these reso-
lutions be forwarded by the governor of the
state to the legislature of every state and
territory, and that the press be requested to
call public attention to these resolutions.
	This resolution ought to have some in-
fluence upon the people and papers who
have persistently tried to keep in circula-
tion reports derogatory to the “Colorado
experiment.’’—Ex.


The Western movement against the em-
ployment of married women as school
teachers should also embrace the principle
that no bachelor teachers can be employed.
If you refuse to employ married women,
you discourage marriage. But refuse at
the same time to employ unmarried men
and you encourage marriage.—Ex.


U. W. P. C.
	The U. W. P. C. met in the "Ex-
ponent” office in the Templeton, January
31, 1899, President Ella W. Hyde in the
chair. Opening prayer was offered by Dr.
E. R. Shipp. Roll call responded to by
sentiments from George Crabbe.
	Under new business the subject of the
traveling library came up for consideration.
On motion of Mrs. E. B. Wells the club
voted to pay the annual dollar for the
library. President Hyde stated that any
book given by club members would be
gladly received by the library committee,
Mrs. Moore chairman.
	An interesting and charming paper on
the Bon Marche was given by Mrs. Lawler,
giving a life like account of that great
institution in the gay city of Paris. Anec-
dotes by some of the ladies and some dis-
cussion followed. An original poem,
Night Winds, by Mrs. L. D. Alder, was
next read. It was intensely suitable for
the wild and boisterous night. A very
meritorious paper on the Khartoum and
Sir Horatio Herbert Kitchener, the famous
Sidar of the Egyptian army, was read
with pleasing effect by Mrs. Lizzie S. Wil-
cox
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, president of the
National Woman’s Relief Society, and an
honorary member of the club, celebrates
her 78th birthday today. This is also the
76th birthday of Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
vice president of the N. W.. R. S., who is,
now visiting in Los Angelos. The club
extends best wishes to theso two veterans
in the cause of women, and wishes them
fair sailing over life’s uncertain sea.
	After some discussion an adjournment
was taken for one month. Dismissed by
Mrs. Doolan.
			L. D. ALDER, Sec, pro tem.


AMERICAN SILK. Commenting on the 
conditions governing the trade, the Silk
Association of America through its secre-
tary, has this to say: “Rising prices in the
raw-silk markets of the world have pro-
duced a decided rise in the prices of raw
silk in this market during the last thirty
days. This naturally necessitates a rise in
all silk products, and some of the branches
of the trade have formaly agreed in an
advance of prices. In this country at pres-
ent there are 27,000 power looms for broad
silk weaving,and 6,000 for ribbon weaving.
During the year there have been a number
of additional plants established in this
country by foreign firms and naturally
there has been some extension of facilities
by our older manufacturers. While addi-
tional facilities of manufacture is a gratify-
ing omen, it also carries with it an appre-
hension of facilities unduly increased. It
is hardly necessary to say that overpro-
duction is about as bad as a sluggish mar-
ket; in fact it conduces to it. The raw silk
supply on which our manufacturers depend
is indicated in the following figures.

IMPORTS IN UNITED STATES OF RAW SILK.
						Bales. 
1894.......................................54,924	$24,728,163.
1895.......................................66,989	30,595,991.
1896.......................................39,754	14,411,073.
1897.......................................72,496	30,636,009.
1898.......................................69,392	26,058,312.


Reading matter and “comforts” are
being sent to American soldiers stationed in
Cuba, Porto Rico and Manila by the Gener- 
al Society Daughters of the Revolution.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings 
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
 	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier 
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1899.		NO 20


CONTENTS:
	How Do They Compare—Ida H. Harper. Notes
and News. In Memoriam. U. W. P. C.—Aimee
C. Schiller. Reorganization—Sarah A. F. Price.
New Organization—O. H W The N. A. W. S
Association—Rachel Foster Avery. R.S. Reports.
A Sketch of the Jaredites—E. H. Lyon. Notice
to all Those Interested in Si[-]k Culture in the
State of Utah—Margaret A. Caine. Notice—Ro-
mania B. Pratt.
	EDITORIAL:—Official Notice. Relief Society
Conference. Memorable Anniversary. Daugh-
ters of the Revolution. About the Triennial.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Relics—Ellis R. Shipp. My Warning
—Nellie.


RELICS.

“O! what shall we do with all of this stuff,”
	Said fair Estelle one day,
“Right here in this garret there is enough  
To fill one with dismay.
Sure in the new home there’ll be no room 
	For trash and rubbish like this.”
As I glanced around I knew my doom,
	So closed her lips with a kiss.
I smiled and quietly sent her away,
	For what would she think of tears,
That I knew would come while I should survey
	The hoarded treasures of years.
Yes, well may she ask what should be done,
	With dresses my grandmother wore,
Her o’d rocking chair and patchwork begun
	In the leisure hours of yore.

These scrapbags and bundles and old broken
		toys,
	Withered wreaths and baskets of flowers,
And the cradle where slept my girls, and my
		boys,
	Thorugh innocent babyhood hours.
This pile of old letters with histories rife,
	Ah! the burden of love they bear,
With tales of the brightest seasons of life,
	And of days bowed down with care.

This moccasin made for the fair first born,
	This shoe by the second one worn,
This christening robe with laces adorned,
	And bonnets all soiled and torn.
The relics of missions and travels abroad, 
	Books, chests and specimens, too,
Speaking now to my soul in voices aloud,
	Of scenes that have pass’d from my view.

This old fashioned bureau of native wood
		made,
	Is all that is left of the set
He gave me the morn of the day we were
		wed,
	With kisses I ne’er can forget.
Still here in its drawers are ribbons and lace
	Old jewels and gold-tinseled fans, 
That waved at grand balls with exquisite
		grace,
	While held in fair dimpled hands.

The identical waistcoat he wore for my sake,
	And this he wore that fair day—
Along with my gown of old fashioned make,
	Have long lain carefully away.
These precious mementoes of more precious
		days,
	To the flames must all be consigned!
Just so mortal joys will melt from our gaze,
	And souls must needs be resigned.


O, weak human heart we cling to this day,
	Make idols of earth’s fading things,
And follow the phantom that flitteth away,
	And pleasures that travel on wings.
O, help us our Father to took up to Thee,
	Seek joys that ever abide,
Those truths and that faith that never will flee,
	Whatever of ill may betide.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


HOW DO THEY COMPARE?

	Ida H. Harper recently published a very
convincing argument upon equal suffrage,
in which she instituted a comparison be-
tween the personnel of the anti-suffragists
and the suffragists. Alluding to the form-
er she says:
	“Almost without exception the former
appear in print under the husband’s name.
Their own individual names would convey
no meaning to the public. Scarcely one is
known for her own work in literature,
science, education, practical philanthropy,
business enterprise or any active effort
for the benefit of mankind. Opposed to
these place the names of the most promin-
ent of the pronounced advocates of suffrage
for women, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, Harriet Martin-
eau, Florence Nightingale, Frances Power
Cobbe, Lady Aberdeen, Lady Henry Somer-
set, Annie Besant, Lucy Stone, Harriet
Beecher Stowe, Louisa M. Alcott, Mary A.
Livermore, Julia Ward Howe, Clara Bar-
ton, Zerelda G. Wallace, Mary L. Booth,
Alice and Phoebe Cary, Mary Clemmer,
May Wright Sewall, Alice Freeman Palmer,
Sarah B. Cooper, Leonora Barry Lake,
Anna Dickinson, Anna L. Diggs, Grace
Greenwood, Harriet Hosmer, Lilian Whit-
ing, Bertha Honore Palmer, Jane L. Stan-
ford, Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, Frances E.
Willard and all the host of W. C. T. U.
leaders, Myra Bradwell and all the women
lawyers, Rev. Anna H. Shaw and all the
women ministers, Dr. Mary Putnam Jacobi,
and practically all the women physicians
and the vast majority of teachers and news-
paper women. 
	The list might be extended almost indifin-
itely and it would include nine-tenths of
the women who have made a name for
themselves and who are distinguished for
their own commanding ability. What a
travesty that a handful of women, eminent
only in social positions, should besiege the
legislatures to withhold the right of repre-
sentation from such as these! How much
worse than a travesty that they should
seek to deprive the wage earning women
of what would be their strongest weapon
for self-protection! All the opposition of
men for the last half century has not caused
so much discouragement to the women who
have fought the battles as this unprecedented
action on the part of their own sex. This
is not that they are retarding the progress
of the suffrage movement, for they are
having the opposite effect, but only that,
after all these years of opportunity, the wo-
men who should be leaders are laggards
and obstructionists.”


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The action taken at the recent Congress
of the Daughters of the American Revolu-
tion looking to an amalgamation of that
society with the Daughters of the Revolu-
tion, was entirely voluntary upon the part
of the D. A. R., and not with the sanction
or at the request of the Daughters of the
Revolution. There is no probability of a
“surrender” by the D. R. society to the D.
A. R’s.
	The General Society Daughters of the
Revolution constitutes all “original daugh-
ters,” women whose fathers served in the
War of the Revolution, honorary members
of the society, and presents them with a
handsomely engraved parchment certificate
of membership and a gold badge. Authen-
tic information of such daughters will be
gladly received at the headquarters of the
society, 156 Fifth Ave., New York City.
	The District of Columbia W. S. Associa-
tion, on motion of Dr. McNaughton, passed
unanimously a resolution of approval of
the disarmament conference called by the
Czar of Russia to meet in St. Petersburg in
May next, and asking the President of the
United States to appoint Mrs. Belva A.
Lockwood a delegate. Without any con-
cert of action a similar resolution was passed
by the Woman’s Industrial Relief League,
putting it upon the ground that the time
had arrived when the administration should
do something for women, and that Mrs.
Lockwood was by previous service pre-
eminently fit for the position.
	A lifelong suffragist has just been tender-
ly conducted through the portals of death
into the home of the soul, at the ripe age of
ninety three. Mrs. Sophronia Snow leaves
her impress on the age in the influence of
her daughters, two of whom live in Wash-
ington and two at the old home in Hamden
Corners, Maine. One of the latter is Mrs.
Jane H. Spofford, who was for so many
years intimately connected with the work
of the National Woman’s Suffrage Associ-
ation. It was with her that Mrs. Snow
passed her later years, and at this home not
long ago, she enjoyed visiting with Miss
Anthony, who was a guest there during
the suffrage convention at that place.
	Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne has introduced
an important educational bill in the Legis-
lature, providing for an increase of one
hundred per cent in the Normal scholar-
ship of the University. Its leading features
are as follows: The Normal school shall
be continued as a department of the Uni-
versity, for students of both sexes, and its
course of instruction shall include practice
in teaching and in pedagogy, may extend
through a period of four years, or until
graduation. Two hundred free scholars
may be maintained in the Normal school.
The holders of them shall be exempt from
the payment of all matriculation fees. Fifty
appointments to these scholarships, each for
a term of four years, may be made annually.
The bill was passed.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

MARGARET CHERRY.
	In memory of Mrs. Margaret Cherry,
who with her husband and six children
came to Utah in 1847 from Kentucky,
where she was born February 11, 1811.
They moved in the summer of 1848 to
Centerville, where she has lived ever since
until her death, which occurred October 18,
1898.
	Sister Cherry was a widow for thirty-
four years. When the Relief Society was
organized she became a member and officer
of that society and opened her house for
them to meet in. She afterwards gave a
small house to the society which they met
in for twenty years. As age and infirmities
came on her she was unable to leave her
home for a number of years. She was of a
peaceful disposition, a good neighbor and
endeavored to live her religion and keep
the golden rule. She died in full faith and
left a large posterity, of whom nearly all
are in the Church.
			MARY ROCKWOOD.
Centerville Relief Society.
KATE LAUGHAN LEISHMAN.
	We have been called upon to record the
death of one of our beloved sisters, Kate
Maughan Leishman, who departed this life at
her home in Wellsville, Cache Co., Utah,
Jan 15, 1899.
	Sister Leishman has been a faithful work-
er in our Relief Society, and has endeared
herself to the little band of sisters in this
branch by her sweet and gentle disposition,
and we her sisters offer these resolutions of
respect as a slight token of our love for her
who has been called to a higher sphere of
action.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That as God in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to call home our dear
sister, Kate Maughan Leishman, we the
officers and members of the Baker City
branch of the Relief Society, express our
heartfelt sympathy for the bereaved hus-
band and family in their loss; also that they
have been greatly blessed with her sweet
and gentle influence in her home; and be it
further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be
placed upon our society records, one sent to
the bereaved family and one sent to the
Woman’s Exponent for publication.
			REBECCA NIBLEY, Pres.
			NELLIE W. ROUNDY, Sec.
A SAD BEREAVEMENT.
	Sister Elizabeth Pehrson, beloved daugh-
ter of Eric John and Anna S. Pehrson,
died January 15, 1899, after a lingering
weakness for some time, but was not con-
fined to her bed till one week prior to her
death, when she was attacked with an in-
termittent fever. Her weakness became
greater, though she took nourishment till
the last. She passed away without a strug-
gle Sunday morning between five and six
o’clock, in the arms of her beloved mother
and sister.
	Sister Pehrson was born and raised in
the Gospel and died a faithful Latter day
Saint, placing her religion above every
thing else. She was honest, virtuous, kind
and patient, never refusing any call that
was made upon her, therefore holding
many responsible positions at her death.

[Column 2]
	She was a teacher in the Sabbath School,
secretary in the Relief Society, second
counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A., and secre-
tary in the Y. M. and Y. L. Improvement
Association; also held the position of school
trustee and postmistress. She was born
April 28, 1873, at Vernon, Tooele Co., Utah.
	On Friday 20, her angel like form was
borne in a beautiful white casket decorated
with wreaths and blooming roses, to the
meeting house where the funeral services
were held. The stand was draped in white
and decorated with flowers, giving the
whole a beautiful appearance. The choir
sang “Guide Me to Thee.” Prayer was
offered by Brother David Bennion. Sing-
ing, “Wanted on the Other Side.” Consol-
ing remarks were made by Stake President
H. S. Gowan and our beloved Bishop J. C.
Sharp. The choir sang “Sister Thou
wert Mild and Lovely.” Benediction by
Neils Fredrickson.
	The remains were conveyed to the ceme-
tery in a light vehicle drawn by white
horses. The dedicatory prayer was offered
by President H. S. Gowan. The choir
sang “There is Sweet Rest in Heaven.”
The body was then carefully sheltered by
mother earth to rest in peace.
							C.
FRISTENCE MAGDALENE ERIKSEN.
	It is our painful duty to announce that
on December 4, 1898, occurred the death of
Sister Fristence Magdalene Eriksen from
heart failure.
	Deceased was born in Otostrup, Wolstrup
Sogn, Denmark, on the 11th of March 1857.
She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1880 and
emigrated to Utah in 1881. She was a
member of the Newton ward, Cache Stake
of Zion. She died in full faith of the Gos-
pel and with the hope of a glorious resur-
rection. She was a member of the Relief
Society and always took an active part in it.
	The following resolutions were adopted
by the society in her memory:
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas in the providence of God it
has pleased Him to call away this our be-
loved sister to a higher sphere, and we
reverence Him who holds the destinies of
men and who permits nothing to come to
pass but for a wise and glorious purpose; and
	Whereas at the time of her death she
was an active member of the Relief Society
and was held in high esteem by all who
knew her, for her noble qualities, therefore
be it
	Resolved, That we the members of the
Relief Society of Newton ward tender to
the bereaved family our heartfelt sympathy
and condolence for the sad loss they have
sustained of a faithful wife and a loving
sister; and be it further
	Resolved, That a copy of this preamble
and resolutions be recorded in the minutes
of the Relief Society, and a copy printed in
the Woman’s Exponent.
		ELIZABETH FUNK,
		MARY JENKINS,
		MAGDALENE PETERSON,
						Committee.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT AND 
CONDOLENCE. 
	In loving respect to Sister Anna Lang-
hurst Layne, one of our pioneer women
and a faithful teacher in the Cardston Re-
lief Society, Canada.

[Column 3]
	She was born February 22, 1849, at
Stow on the Woods, Glostershire, England.
Died December 23, 1898, in Cardston after
an illness of two days, leaving a husband
and ten children to mourn her departure.
	Sister Layne came to Cardston with her
husband and family in the year 1887. She
was true to her religion and her covenants,
having embraced the higher order of mar-
riage for eternity she has now a claim to a
higher celestial glory. She was always an
energetic and faithful worker in the Relief
Society, a sympathetic and faithful nurse,
ever ready to assist the sick and the poor
and to cheer up the downcast; a loving
wife, a devoted mother, looking after her
children with a love unceasing. We feel
that her wise counsel will be heeded by her
children, (the youngest of whom is eight
years of age) that they will profit by her
worthy example.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His
infinite wisdom has seen fit to call home
our beloved sister, Anna Layne,
	Resolved, That in the death of Sister
Layne we are deprived of the society of a
loving sister and a dear friend, one who
was always alive to her duties and will be
greatly missed; so willing in the hour of
need, many sad hearts have been brightened
by her cheerful words of encouragement;
therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize
with those who are bereft and are bound by
the nearest and dearest ties, and we share
with them the hope of a happy reunion in
the bright hereafter. We pray that heaven’s
choicest blessings may attend the bereaved
family, and the spirit of the Lord be with
them to comfort and cheer them.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions
be given to the bereaved family, one placed
on record and one sent to the Woman’s
Exponent for publication.
			SARAH B. DAINES, Pres.
			C. ELNORA WIGHT, Sec.
			LOTTIE BARTON, Rec. Sec.


U. W. P. C.

	The U. W. .P. C. met in the “Ex-
ponent” office February 28, 1899. The
president being absent the vice president,
Mrs. C. G. R. Wells presided. Opening
prayer by Dr. E. R. Shipp, after which the
secretary called the roll, responses being
given by quotations from the poet Moore.
Mrs. Francis proposed the name of Mrs.
Ida Cannon as a member. Mrs. Cannon
was unanimously elected. Mrs. L. D.
Alder read a communication from the
General Federation of Women’s Clubs,
Atlanta, Ga., and one from Chester, Penn.,
regarding organizing Federation traveling
clubs, and one from the Utah Federation re-
garding badges. The following interesting
program was then given:
	Poem by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp; Current
Events by Dr. Romania B Pratt; Tid Bits
by Mrs. H. V. Kimball, followed by dis-
cussion of members. Before the benediction
was offered all present joined in extending
well wishes and congratulations to Mrs. E.
B.Wells, this being the anniversary of her
birth, or nearly so, as she was born on the
29th. May she meet with us for many,
many years to come. 
		AIMEE C. SCHILLER, Sec.


The Hawaiian bill failed to come to a
vote, and goes over to next Congress.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MY WARNING.

Many a lesson our children teach us, 
	Did we con their quaint sayings through,
Many a loving reproof they give us—
	Doing ever the thing we do—
Showing how watchful we mothers should be,
What noble examples of purity.

’Twas in early spring many years agone,
	How well I remember the day,
The birds, just returning from warmer climes,
	Caroled forth such a joyous lay,  
All nature aroused from her winter’s sleep,
Rejoiced while I reveled in fancies dee[-].

“Mama oo’d better look out where oo step,
	I’se walked in oo’s tracks all de way,
And mine s’oes are as muddy as dey can be,
	But oo cant scold Nellie today,
’Cause oo’s are as muddy as mine don’t oo see? 
Oh mama who finked dat so naughty oo’d be.”

I paused in my reverie, baby’s voice
	Had called me back from my aerial flight,
And turning, I saw that I’d left the path
	And taken a wrong, instead of the right, 
And there we were in the mud ankle deep,
Just reward for neglecting the path to keep.

I snatched up my baby, and then retraced
	My steps till ’gain I’d reached the track,
Then hand in hand, homeward we took our
		“March,”
	Thankful at last when we were back, 
The muddy shoes removed, the tired head
Pillowed upon my breast, while this I read:

“Thy children’s children in thy steps shall walk,
	Thy latter days shall be thy best,
Apostles, prophets at thy board shall dine, 
	And thy posterity shall call thee blest,
While useful ’mong thy sisters thou shalt be, 
In deeds of mercy love and charity.”

“Thy children’s children in thy path shall
		walk,”
	The words seemed burning in my very soul
My life, its acts before my vision passed 
	And I in judgment sat upon the whole,
How small my spirit stature seemed that day,
How unlike His, “The Life, the Sight the
		Way.”

Long, long I sat accusing self of wrongs, 
	Which ere had trifling seemed to me,
But viewed today gigantic forms assumed,
	“The beam removed,” I plain could see
How oft by foolish follies I was led, 
How oft omitted duties, hard words said.

How oft controlled in anger ’stead of love,
	The “daily prayer,” a “thing forgot,” 
While oft “before my neighbor’s door I wept,”
	The while repining with my lot,
Forgetful that our Father’s watchful care 
Is “over all,” yet, each his cross must bear.

Humbly I bowed before the Lord in prayer, 
	Pleading for pardon, mercy, love,
Soon o’er my senses stole a holy calm, 
	Such as comes only from above, 
And lo! a voice seemed saying o’er and o’er:
	“Rise erring daughter, go and sin no
		more,

Henceforward follow whither I shall lead,
	I’ll keep thy steps so free from sin,
Thy children, following, shall see thy light,
	And they, with thee, the victory win,
But humble ye must walk, holding ‘the rod’
Braving life’s battles, trusting Me, thy God.”

The years have flown, and though my erring
		feet,
	In moments weak, have slid aside the track,
Anon the memory of that baby voice,
	In cadence sweet has called me back,
Struggling I seek for aid from Christ my head, 
	Led by a little child, as prophets said.

[Column 2]
Father, I daily plead, keep me from sin,
	Help me a shining light to be,
To those whom Thou hast placed within my
		care,
	That I may lead them back to Thee,
Back to the home from whence, so pure, they
	came,
This is the prayer I ask in Jesus’ name.
							NELLIE.


REORGANIZATION.

	Minutes of a special meeting called to
fill the vacancy made by the death of our
late president, Sarah M. Kimball, held in
the vestry of the ward meeting house,
March 7, 1899.
	There were present Stake President An-
gus M. Cannon, Relief Society Stake Presi-
dent M. I. Horne, and her counselors, An-
nie T. Hyde and Clara C. Cannon and
others, also Bishop Jos. Morgan and Coun-
selor Nephi Morris.
	Meeting was opened by singing “Oh
say what is truth.” Prayer by Nephi Mor-
ris. Continued by singing “Guide us O,
Thou Great Jehovah.” Sarah A. F. Price
was nominated and sustained to act as secre-
tary for the meeting.
	Bishop Jos. Morgan explained the ob-
ject of calling the meeting, to effect a re-
organization of the 15th ward Relief Soci-
ety, a vacancy being caused by the death of
our late president, Sarah M. Kimball. He de-
sired to be guided by divine power in what
was done today. Spoke of the efficient
assistance given by the Relief Society to
the Bishopric.
	President M. I Horne followed with a
few remarks, Spoke in high terms of the
ability of our late president, Sarah M. Kim-
ball. Referred to the first organization and
the instructions given at that time by the
prophet, Said that it was wonderful the
amount that was gathered in in small sums
contributed by individuals. Desired the
influence of the Holy Ghost to guide us. 
Said every virtuous woman ought to be-
long to the society.
	President Angus M. Cannon spoke of the
help given to the ward, Stake and Church
by the Relief Society organizations. Said
that all members should be virtuous and
that God would reveal sin to those who
were righteous.
	Sister Harriet A. Badger was then nom-
inated and unanimously sustained as presi-
dent of the 15th ward Rellef Society.
	Sister Badger accepted the office, and
said she would do the best she could to dis-
charge her duties faithfully. She chose
for her first and second counselors respective-
ly, Mary E. R. Gray and Janette S. Griggs.
Both were unanimously sustained. Sarah
A. F. Price was nominated for secretary and
Mary W. Gray for treasurer. Both were
unanimously sustained as such.
	The officers were then set apart by Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon, Bishop Jos. Mor-
gan and Nephi Morris. Meeting was
closed by singing “Lord dismiss us with
Thy blessing.” Benediction by Sister
Julia C. Howe.
			SARAH A. F. PRICE, Sec.


THE. N. A. W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	Mrs. Emily B. Ketchum, the president of
the Susan B. Anthony Club of Grand Rapids,
Mich., is most actively engaged in making
preparations for the approaching Annual
Convention of the National American Wo-
man’s Suffrage Association to be held in
her city from April 27 to May 3, inclusive.
	Mrs. Ketchum has secured an admirable
entertainment committee with an active
chairman, Mrs. Allen C. Adsit, 94 Madison
Ave., and the Grand Rapids people propose
to entertain most royally the entire work-
ing force of the Convention, officers, speak-
ers and delegates.
	April and May promise delightful weath-
er in that part of the country, and we are
all looking forward to not only a good
working Convention, but a pleasant op-
portunity for social intercourse with a
gathering of women which ought to repre-
sent the entire country. A number of
states have already sent information that
their full quota of delegates will be present.
The South will be represented on the pro-
gram by three of its best known suffragists,
Laura Clay and Josephine K. Henry of
Kentucky, and Frances Griffin of Alabama.
	It is hoped that at least one of the wo-
men members of Legislatures in the enfran-
chised states will be present, and perhaps
such representatives will be secured from
two of these states.
	Among the speakers will be Elizabeth
Boynton Harbert, Illinois; Evelyn H. Bel-
den, Iowa; Anna Caulfield, Michigan; May
Wright Sewall, Indiana; Merrie H. Abbott,
Michigan; Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, Penn-
sylvania; Abigail Scott Duniway, Oregon;
Martha A. Root, Michigan; Carrie Chap-
man Catt, New York; Harriet Taylor Up-
ton, Member of the Warren, Ohio, School
Board; Flora Beadle Renkes, School Com-
missioner of Berry Co., Michigan; A.
Eugenie Paul, Superintendent of Street
Cleaning Department, First Ward, Chicago,
and Susan B. Anthony.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.


At the quinquennial of the Woman’s In-
ternational Council in London next June,
one of the two large public sessions will be
given to a consideration of woman suffrage,
the other to the question of peace and arbi-
tration.


NEW ORGANIZATION.

	Minutes of the organization of the Relief
Society held in the 22nd ward branch, Dec.
8, 1898.
	Bishop Solomon stated that they deemed
it proper to organize a Relief Society in this


part of the 22nd ward, and for that reason
they had called this meeting prior to the
organization.
	Instructions and advice were then given
the sisters by Bishop Solomon and his
counselors, Arthur Winter and John Nebe-
ker. Bishop Solomon then gave the names
of the following sisters to act as officers:
Sister J. S. McKean, president; Elizabeth
Lawrence, first counselor; Nancy Shaw,
second counselor; Octavia H. Walgren,
secretary; Elvira Winberg, treasurer.
	The sisters then expressed their willing-
ness to fulfill their calling to the best of
their ability. Brother Solomon advised the
sisters to meet together as often as possible,
and to seek the spirit of the Lord at all times.
	The sisters were then set apart by the
Bishop and his counselors. Bishop Solo-
mon made a few remarks, exhorting the
sisters to be faithful at all times, and asked
the blessing of the Lord upon all. Bene-
diction was pronounced by Niels Nelson.
						O. H. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1899.


ABOUT THE TRIENNIAL.

	The ladies who attended the sessions of
the Triennial of the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States in Washington, D.
C., in 1899, will probably never forget the
impression it has made and the benefits re-
ceived. To those who have never been pres-
ent the general uplifting cannot be too greatly
emphasized. The banding together of more
than a million women to influence the ac-
complishment of great purposes must neces-
sarily be a power in any given direction. It
is not so much individual as collective
power and the individual speeches made,
however brilliant, are not the predominating
influence. It is the united force of the whole
that gives such tremendous weight to the en-
tire effect. The propagation of the ideas em-
bodied in the platform of the Council express
forcibly in a few words what is expected, and
one can judge from that what the future will
be for all women who are willing to put forth


[Column 1]
a helping hand to advance this great forward
movement.
	The International Council, which takes
in all National Councils in all the countries
of the world is to hold its quinquennial ses-
sion next June in London. There the lead-
ing representatives of the National Council
will assemble to read papers, discuss subjects
and formulate plans for the general welfare of
women among all nations upon the globe.
Many crowned heads of kingdoms and em-
pires are becoming interested in, this Council
of nations, and will send representatives
duly commissioned as fraternal delegates,
where National Councils have not yet been
affiliated. To enlarge upon the facts here
set forth one might multiply pages illimitable,
but if women are alive to the awakening of
the times mentally and spiritually, they will
seek information and inspiration upon this
great upheaval of the higher activities of the
age. 
	The meetings of the Council this winter
and the business transacted have been of ex-
ceptional interest to the writer and for lack
of space even now we can only present the
following:
THE RESOLUTIONS REPORTED.
	Whereas the National Council of Women
cannot afford to lose from its Executive
Board a woman who has had the experience
of directing its policy as President; there-
fore be it
	Resolved, That a President of the Nation-
al Council, upon retiring from her office,
shall be made Honorary President of the
Council, with all powers and privileges, in-
cluding that of a vote upon the executive
committee; further be it
	Resolved, Should this resolution com-
mend itself to the judgment of the execu-
tive committee, that the names of Mary
Lowe Dickinson and May Wright Sewall,
The two living Presidents of the Council,
be immediately placed upon the official
staff, and that the constitution be so amended
as to include past Presidents as Honorary
Presidents within its limits; be it also
	Resolved, That no one except the Presi-
dent of the Council shall have either the
title or the privilege of an Honorary Presi-
dent.
	Resolved, We believe the state should
give to all children in schools under its con-
trol industrial and physical as well as
mental education.
	Resolved, That the National Council of
Women requests the government of the
United States how it may most largely
avail itself of the services of women in the
regulation of such matters pertaining to the
army and navy as the proper preparation of
food, sanitation, nursing, medical attendance,
etc. 
	Believing that the two strongest unifying
forces off organized effort are human brother-
hood and Divine Fatherhood, and rejoicing
in the expression of humanitarian princi-
ples in the manifold activities of American
women, represented by the National Coun-
cil of Women; therefore,
	Resolved, That this universal faith in the
Divine Fatherhood should be expressed by
either vocal or silent prayer at the opening
of all sessions of the Council.
	Resolved, That we protest against the
canteen system in our army and navy.
	Resolved, That we deprecate war, and
are in hearty sympathy with the purpose of
the conference called by the Czar of Russia

[Column 2]
for the gradual disarmament of the nations
of the world, believing that all difficulties
between civilized people may be settled
judicially by a high court of nations with-
out the sacrifice of life.
	Resolved, That the National Council of
Women of the United States send a com-
munication to President McKinley, re-
questing him to use his influence in en-
deavoring to put a stop to bull fights in
Cuba, on account of their extreme cruelty
and the demoralizing effect upon those who
witness them.
	Resolved, That in view of the wholesale
destruction and threatened extinction of
whole species of beautiful and useful song
birds for millinery purposes, and the conse-
quent rapid multiplication of insect pests,
and serious menace to the agricultural in-
terests of our country and the world, and
in view of the manifest inadequacy of mor-
al suasion to prevent the wearing of birds
and parts of birds on women’s bonnets, we
urge the passage of a United States law
prohibiting the sale by hunters or milliners
of any bird plumage obtained by the de-
struction, torture or injury of birds.
	Whereas the National Council of Women
of the United States stands for the highest
ideals of domestic and civic virtue, as well
as for the observance of law in all its de-
partments, both state and national, therefore
	Resolved, That no person should be al-
lowed to hold a place in any law making
body of the nation who is not a law abiding
citizen.
	Whereas the National Council of Women
of the United States is composed of many
organizations having diverse aims and
varied activities; and
	Whereas its own chief object is “the over-
throw of all forms of ignorance and injust-
ice” by the application of the Golden Rule
to society, custom and law; and
	Whereas this diversion in its constituency
and increasing number of its allied societies
tends more and more (under the present
form of procedure) toward the presentation
of resolutions and petitions too special in
character to be fully endorsed, and too great
in number to be properly discussed by the
Council as a whole; therefore
	Resolved, That this committee on reso-
lutions recommends that at succeeding ses-
sions of the National Council of Women of
the United States no resolution or petition
be presented except such as bear upon the
subjects, policy or work of the Council it-
self, in its internal administration or in its
relation as a body to other organizations,
or to some specific recommendation of the
Council in national or international enter-
prises or meetings.
SKETCH OF HAWAIIAN WOMEN.
President and Ladies of the National Coun-
		cil:
	I have come on behalf of my people, the
Hawaiian women, that they may be allowed
the same privileges as the women of America.
	Here I wish to say in the early days of
Hawaii the Hawaiian race were ignorant,
and like all other nationalities where civiliz-
ation had not reached, were savages. But
when the word of God was brought to us
in the year 1820 the Hawaiian race accepted
it and today they are equal in education,
intelligence and capability to the people of
the United States and all other nations of
the globe.

[Column 3]
	I have been present at some of your
meetings and find that the women of this
country are working for the advancement
of the human race, more especially for the
rights of women. If the right to vote is
accorded to the women of this country, I
hope and pray that the same privileges may
be granted to the Hawaiian women, and I
ask of the National Council of Women
whose noble souls prompted them to be
present at these meetings, that they will
give me all the aid in their power to for-
ward the fulfillment of my petition.
				HANNAH KAAEPA.


[Column 1]
MEMORABLE ANNIVERSARY.

	The 17th of March, anniversary of the
first organization of the Relief Society,
will be generally observed throughout the
organization in some way commemorative
of that auspicious occasion, and no doubt
the sisters will try to review in some way
the work accomplished during the fifty
seven years, though very few are living
now who were present then. Only one
that we can recall at this present moment,
that one is Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, who
was at that time not quite twenty years old.
	The assistant secretary appointed on that
occasion, Sister Phebe M. Wheeler, has
died during the last few months at Bounti-
ful at a great age; we have not yet received

[Column 2]
the notice with a sketch of her life, but ex-
pect to publish it in the “Exponent.” It
will certainly be of special interest.
	For the benefit of those not acquainted
with the circumstances of the first organiza-
tion and particulars, etc., we republished in
the February 1, 1899, number, the minutes
as prepared by Sister Eliza R. Snow, the
secretary appointed at that time, and who
carefully prepared them from the record
for publication in the first numbers of the
Woman’s Exponent, June 1, and 15, 1872.
We hope most sincerely that the sisters
will preserve these minutes and make them
a part of the record kept of the society in
their respective wards, that hereafter they
may have them for reference. If the sisters
would be more choice of the “Exponent,”
they might have information at hand on
many subjects when occasion came that
items were needed for use. Every society
should have it for the benefit of those who
cannot afford to take it, and every president
should have it for her own use, in order
that she may be posted on general society
matters, and because of any instructions
given through its columns from the presid-
ing board.
	The 17th of March marks an event of
great interest to the sisters and to all wo-
men, and we know why and how it is so
very important an epoch in the history of
the world. Since that time hundreds and
perhaps thousands of women’s organiza-
tions have sprung up on both continents, in
many countries and upon the islands of the
sea: some benevolent like our own, some
for reform, some literary, historical, genalog-
ical, scientific, political and religious.
	All the various associations and societies
have vast influence in the world towards
enlightenment, refinement and culture.
Many great reforms have been wrought
through the efforts of the women along
these lines, and what may we not expect in
the next half century of progressive work.
	Of the Relief Society great things will
certainly be expected, such as promoting
more substantially the silk industry and
other like enterprises, so as to employ a
large number of women and children, that
the young generation may not be allowed
to grow up in idleness, and be a tax upon
the community.
	More houses will be built suitable for
aged women so as to avoid paying rent, for
building material may be obtained even
without much cash, or at any rate with
economy in disposing of articles made at
working meetings; building material may
thus be procured and work on houses paid 
for. This has been done already in
some places where there has been judicious
management by those in charge of affairs.
	If the Relief Society stands, as it should,
first of woman’s organizations, there should
be a bureau of information with suitable
(not extravagant) headquarters where
strangers and women from all parts of the
world might converse with the women of
the society upon such matters as pertain to
the welfare of humanity, and get correct
views and opinions of the work in which
the women of the Latter-day Saints are en-
gaged. May that good time hasten on and
the sisters feel their labors are in the line
of progress, and the society become in real-
ity what has been expected by those who
laid the foundation of this organization, and
worked so faithfully until called to labor
in a higher sphere. In this connection we 
may mention reverently Sisters Eliza R.
Snow, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Phebe

[Column 3]
Woodruff, Sarah M. Kimball, Mercy R.
Thompson, Marinda M. Hyde, Elizabeth
Howard and many others whose names will
stand in golden letters on the Roll of Honor.


OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT. 

	During the early part of April there will 
be issued by the Deseret News a new 
Church work entitled “The Articles of
Faith,” the same being a series of lectures 
on the principal doctrines of the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, by Dr. 
James E. Talmage. The lectures were
prepard by appointment of the First Presi-
dency, and the book will be published by 
the Church. It is intended for use as a 
text book in Church schools, Sunday
schools, Improvement associations, quorums 
of the Priesthood and other Church organi-
zations in which the study of Theology is 
pursued, and also for individual use among 
the members of the Church. The work has 
been approved by the First Presidency, and
I heartily commend it to the members of 
the Church.
				LORENZO SNOW.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The general conference of the Relief Soci-
ety will be held on Saturday April 8, 1899,
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, this city,
meetings commencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p.
m. as usual. It is desirable that there should
be representation from each Stake organiza-
tion of the society, either the president or
other officer should attend. All members of
the society are cordially invited, also the Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primary Association.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
							President.
			JANE S. RICHARDS,
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
							Counselors,


DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.

	At the annual meeting of the State Soci-
ety of the Daughters of the Revolution held
Friday, March 8, at 2 p. m. at the hand-
some residence of Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth,
139 E. South Temple St., this city, a
large number of the members were present
and a few invited guests. The parlors were
elaborately draped and decorated for the oc-
casion with red, white and blue in all avail-
able places, and the dear old flag itself was
most conspicuous of all. Everything be-
tokened a gala occasion. The meeting was
held in the library opening out of the par-
lor where flags and colors were abundant.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. George A.
Smith, one of the most distinguished wo-
men in Utah. Piano music, “The Star
Spangled Banner,” by Miss Olea Shipp.
Minutes of meetings were read by the re-
cording secretary, Miss Julia Farnsworth,
also letters from the general secretary by
the corresponding secretary, Lucy W. Smith.
Music by Miss Shipp, “Red White and
Blue March.” A recess was taken and the
ladies repaired to the dining room, which
like the parlors had been draped with the
national colors. On the tables which were
artistically arranged were sweet-scented
flowers, snowy linen and dainty china, all
added to the delicious menu prepared for
the delectation of the guests. Mrs. Farns-
worth as hostess anticipated every wish and
the hour spent at the banquet was most de-
lightfully entertaining. Miss Farnsworth
was a charming toast mistress and displayed
great tactfulness in introducing each toast
and giving something original of the subject.
The veterans of the Revolution were not for-
gotten, nor were the mothers and “Our Flag”
was royally toasted.
	After the banquet, meeting was called to
order for the consideration of other matters
and Miss Shipp favored the company with a
song, La Separazione, (Rossine) prayer by
the chaplain, and an adjournment was taken
to the regular meeting, March 16, at 3 p.m.,
Templeton Building.
	All, both members and guests, expressed
themselves gratified with the success of the
first annual meeting.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

BURLINGTON, WYOMING.
	Our society was organized December 5,
1896, by Bishop Wm. Packard and coun-
selors, with Sister Abbe Neves president


DAVIS STAKE.

	Minutes of the Davis Stake Relief Soci-
ety conference held at East Bountiful Jan.
26, 1899, President Susan Grant presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “Glorious
things are sung of Zion.” Prayer by
Patriarch Judson Tolman. Singing, “How
great the joy that promised day.” Present
from Salt Lake City were Sisters Elizabeth
J. Stevenson and Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. 
	President Grant said, “I wish to welcome
President Lizzie Smith and the young ladies.
I am pleased to have them meet with us in
conference. 
	Minutes of forenoon session of previous
conference were read and approved. Re-
ports read and accepted.
	Sister Stevenson addressed the meeting.
She fully realized what a great privilege it
was to meet together. We sisters had had
this privilege only since the Prophet Joseph
Smith had organized the Relief Society.
It was the duty of every sister to attend
these meetings and prepare herself for a
higher probation. “When I hear of so 
many going into forbidden paths I wonder
if the mothers have done their duty.  It is
just as necessary for our sons to be virtuous
as for our daughters. We should take an
interest in our sons and daughters, make
home pleasant and provide suitable amuse-
ment for them. The spirit of God cannot
dwell in unholy places.”
	Patriarch John Kynaston said, “I do re-
joice in being here. I feel full of the spirit
of the Lord. What we have heard has
been dictated by the spirit of God. If you
put these things into practice the Lord will
bless you. I say unto these young sisters
you will be blessed in bearing the sons and 
daughters of God. The Lord wants this
people to become one, and prepare the way
for His coming.”
	President Lizzie Smith said, “It affords
me great pleasure to see so many of the
brethren present and to be with you. I
think it is nice to join our societies, as we
all expect to be Relief Society workers at
some time. I was not born when the
Prophet was killed but I think it made an
impression on me. I think children are
influenced very young, even before they
are born. If the mothers would go to the
Lord with their troubles instead of the
neighbors, it would be a great deal better.
My advice is for us to put into practice the
many good things we have heard. I ask the
Lord to bless us all.”
	Bishop Egan said, “I have been pleased
with what I have heard, I think it has
been dictated by the spirit of God. We
have different influences to contend with,
the good and the evil. We should be on
our guard so we will not give way to the
evil influences. It is very necessary and it
is our right, if we live for it, to have the
spirit of discernment.”
	President Susan Grant said, “I have been
very much pleased with the remarks. I am
sorry President Hess was not able to meet
with us, but he sent his blessing.”
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “The spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing.” Benediction by Brother Clark.
	Afternoon session opened by singing
“Praise to the man.” Prayer by Brother
Duarden. Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s
sincere desire.” Minutes of previous after-
noon session read and approved.
	President Grant said, “I am pleased to
see so many present, may the blessing of

[Column 2]
the Lord rest upon all who may speak.”
	Sister Shipp then addressed the meeting.
She said, “I desire an interest in your faith
and prayers, for I desire to talk more especi-
ally to the young ladies and encourage them
to attend these meetings, for they are a
blessing to all of us.” Spoke of love and
charity, said we should all try and cultivate
these qualities. The mothers have a great
influence over their children. A woman’s
geatest mission is to instruct her children
in the proper way. We should all try to
control our children with a spirit of love.
Spoke of our Savior and the spirit of for-
giveness. Said, “Let us try to follow His
example, seek to know and do our duty at
all times and be prepared for eternal life.”
	Patriarch Judson Tolman said, “I will
tell you, my sisters, you are numbered
among those who are reserved to redeem
the world. We can all see the great neces-
sity of doing right and living our religion.
I tell you not only the young men but the
young women will be called upon to go on
missions. I bless you, my sisters, and
your children.”
	Sister Emily Parish said, “I realize so
much is required of us, but we should ask
the Lord what is most necessary to be done.”
Sister Caddie Parish said, “Where much
is given much is required, and none of us
lack for opportunities of improvement. I
trust we will all follow the good examples
of our parents.”
	Counselor Hyrum Grant said, “I am
satisfied the spirit of the Lord is with us to-
day. The only desire I have is that I may
have a portion of it while I attempt to
speak. We should teach our children to
love and respect the authorities. Parents
should be very careful in speaking before
their children. I feel to say God bless this
and all other societies.”
	Sister Mary Clark said, “It is our duty to
ask the Lord for His blessing and what we
most need. I have been to the Lord for com-
fort and have been comforted. I feel to
bear my testimony to the Gospel.”
	Sister Stevenson said, “When our Patri-
archs speak of the degradation it makes me
feel like putting my shoulder to the wheel
and helping to regenerate the world. It is
the privilege and duty of the young ladies to
join these societies and prepare themselves
for eternal life.”
	President Susan Grant said, “I do not
think there is one in the house who has not
been greatly edified.” Spoke of the sis-
ters’ meeting on the 17th of March. “I
feel to ask the blessing of the Lord upon
all, I think we have had a day of rejocing.”
	Conference adjourned for three months to
be held at Centerville. Singing, “Guide
us O, Thou Great Jehovah.” Benediction
by Lewis Grant.
		SUSAN GRANT, Pres.
		PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Sec.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A new book called “The Primary Help-
er” has been completed under the direction
of the General Board of the Primary Associ-
ation, and is now for sale. It is intended
for the use of the children in their exercises
in the association, and for a help when get-
ting up entertainments. It contains both
prose and poetry, most of the articles are
original and written especially for the chil-
dren of Zion. Great care has been taken
to have nothing objectionable contained in
any of the pieces, and the associations and
Latter-day Saints generally should procure
copies for the use of the children and those
who labor among and with them. The
book is published by George Q. Cannon
& Sons Co., price per copy, 15c[-]s.
	A book on Bookkeeping by John W.
Whinyates of this city has been handed to
us, and we take pleasure in giving it a brief
notice in our columns, as it seems to rec-
ommend itself to the student as being clear
in method and easy in comprehension of
the subject dealt with. It contains speci-
mens of the books used in single and double
entry. In this age of hurry any practical
theory that will facilitate work, is certainly
a blessing, and it seems this little book
will be very helpful to those who transact
business, much, or little, as the case may be.
Women who are puzzled in keeping their
accounts and who cannot afford to take les-
sons will be able to learn all that is requi-
site without a teacher, from this small book
of 62 pages, price $1.00
	We have received from the Deseret Sun-
day School Union the pamphlet of the
“Proceedings of the First Sunday School
Convention, of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints,” containing the en-
tire report as taken in short hand. It is
exceedingly interesting and will be a great
benefit to the organization, both for
the present and the future, and the address
of President George Q. Cannon, General
Superintendent, and of First Ass’t. Super-
intendent Elder George Goddard, will be
priceless in value to the Sunday School
Union, as also those of other speakers. The
convention was in every sense of the word
a perfect success, The teaching contained
in the book will be invaluable to teachers,
and in the form it is issued convenient for
reference. Price, 10cts., published by the
Deseret Sunday School Union, 408, and 409
Templeton Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
For the “Exponent.”
A SKETCH OF THE JAREDITES.

	To a Latter-day Saint there is no more
interesting subject to study than the Book
of Mormon. The history of the doings and
wanderings of the aborigines of the Ameri-
can continent, or the roaming Indians of to-
day, the descendants of Father Lehi and
his associates, who left Jerusalem by the
Lord’s command 600 years B. C.
	Lehi and his little company, however,
were not the first colonists who landed in

[Column 2]
the western hemisphere. We read in the
Book of Mormon of a very ancient peo-
ple called the Jaredites, the founder of
which was Jared. He was supposed to be
one of the builders of the Tower of Babel,
and is presumed to be a descendant of Shem.
Little is told in the Book of Ether of the
private character of Jared, but he must
have been a great and good man and also
held the priesthood when God scattered
and confounded the languages of these pre-
sumptuous builders. Jared and his broth-
ers plead with Him that their language and
that of their friends might not be changed.
Their prayer was heard and the Lord
promised to lead them to a new land, choice
above all others, when He would make of
them a great and mighty people, and He
would go before them as their guide.
	In obedience to the command of the Lord
Jared with his brother and their families
and friends gathered their flocks, herds and
seeds of various kinds, and commenced their
journey in the wilderness as the Lord
might lead. They were going to a new
land far away from their eastern home,
across the ocean to a land uninhabited by
mortal man.
	They appear to have collected every
thing that could have been of any use to
them that they could carry. They took
hives of honey bees (known to them by the
name Deseret.)
	The valley into which the Lord first led
them they called Nimrod. Here they tar-
ried for a time, preparing for the long
journey that lay before them. Their wan-
derings were long and tedious, but at last
they reached the great ocean. The place
where they tarried they named Moriancu-
mer. Here they remained for four years,
at the end of which time the Lord visited
the brother of Jared (Mahonry Moriancumer)
in a cloud and chastened him and his breth-
ren, because they had grown careless and
neglected to call upon Him. Repentance
followed this reproof, and their sins were
forgiven them.
	While here the brother of Jared was com-
manded by the Lord to build eight barges.
This command he obeyed with the assis-
tance of the company. The vessels were
small and light in construction. When
they were completed Jared and his people
with their animals and all their belongings
went on board. After a stormy voyage of
three hundred and forty-four days they
reached their destination. It is supposed
they landed on the southern shore of the
Gulf of California.
	How thankful they were that they had
reached their new home! They gave
thanks to God for bringing them safely to
the land of promise.
	Their next duty was to prepare for the
future. They commenced to till the soil
and were greatly blessed in their labors.
They were a righteous people and began to
grow and increase in number and in wealth.
	In course of time Jared and his brother
grew old and died. Before their death the
people wished to be governed by a king
and Orihah, the youngest son of Jared, was
chosen. He reigned in righteousness and
wisdom, instructing the people in the ways
of the Lord. He lived to a very great age
and was succeeded by his son Kib, who in
his old age resigned his kingdom to his son
Shule. At one time during the reign of
Kib he was taken into captivity by his son
Corihor, and kept a prisoner for many years.
	Shule also reigned in righteousness
and was a great and mighty man, yet his


[Column 1]
Sisters Cynthia E. Packard and Sylvia
Griffin, counselors; Sister Alice Neves Dob-
son, secretary, and Sister Margaret A. Prea-
tor treasurer.
	We have but few members as our ward
is small, but all are interested and are ener-
getic workers so far as they are able. As
we are rather scattered on our farms, there
being no towns, some of the sisters living
farthest away having three miles to come,
our meetings are not held as often nor are
they as well attended as we would wish, and
it is a difficult matter for our teachers to
visit every month. As we hold our meet-
ings monthly we have very good meetings
when we do meet, and are always blest
with a goodly portion of the spirit of God.
The sisters are full of love and charity to-
ward each other, and try to follow the ex-
ample set them by their worthy president.
	Trusting these few lines will find room
in your excellent paper, I remain,
Your sister in the Gospel,
SYLVIA GRIFFIN.
ST. JOHN'S STAKE.
	A special conference of the Relief Society
of the St. John's Stake of Zion was held at
St. Johns, Arizona, Feb. 20, 1899. On
the stand were Dr. Karl G. Maeser, Elder
L. John Nuttall, President E. L. S. Udall,
her first counselor and some leading breth-
ren and sisters.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Udall in her remarks said: "This is
not the usual time for holding our confer-
ence, but on account of Brother Nuttall
being here in the interest of the society we
have this privilege." Said she had visited
each society in the Stake since our last con-
ference.
	Elder L. John Nuttall said he had the
special mission of looking after the Relief
Society, given him while our beloved Presi-
dent Woodruff was living. "The property
rights of the society here are not in the
safe condition they are in and near Utah.
***The instructions I give you to day
will only be preparatory for the time when
I shall be permitted to visit you in your re-
spective wards, as the time now is too
limited. I have found in my travels that
the sisters do not understand the object of
the organization fully. The Prophet Joseph
on the first day of its organization said, 'It
is to provoke your husbands to good works,
to correct morals and strengthen virtue.'
My sisters do you realize there is anything
for you to do in this organization to cor-
rect these evil conditions? Now is the time
to put down iniquity, correct the morals
and strengthen the virtues of the children.
You can qualify yourselves to expound the
scriptures by giving lectures, reading, etc.
Take certain passages of scripture and
speak upon them. We are living in an ad-
vanced age and must keep up with the
times. Take care of your wheat, store it
up for a time of famine and pestilence, so
when this time comes, as it will come, the
grain you have stored away will increase
with you and the power of the adversary
will fail in this direction."
	Dr. Karl G. Maeser said, "I rise only to
bear testimony to the beautiful instructions
given by Brother Nuttall. If you will
abide by these instructions and put them
into practice you will indeed be saviors up-
on Mount Zion."
	President William Gibbons said we
should carry the instructions given here
this morning to our homes in the several
wards, that all the people might have the
benefit of them.

[Column 2]
	President E. L. S. Udall said, "We have
had a spiritual feast this morning. Confer-
ence will now be adjourned for six months."
	The choir sang and benediction was pro-
nounced by Brother Wm. Gibbons.
MARY E. B. FARR, Sec.
WEBER STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of Weber Stake, held in
the 3rd ward meeting house, Ogden, March
9, 1899, President Jane S. Richards presid-
ing. Singing, "Come let us anew." Prayer
by Patriarch Thomas Morley. Continued
by singing "Come O, Thou King of kings."
Minutes of the December conference were
read and accepted.
	President Jane S. Richards hoped the
house would be crowded today, so much so
that all would realize the need of a larger
one, some had remarked that the sisters
were extravagant in wanting a house of
their own. Said she had seen many faces
since last meeting with us, but none were
so dear to her as the Saints of God. Spoke
of her visit to California and her meeting
with the Saints there, and of the holy,
peaceful influence that they enjoy in their
little meetings. It was indeed like a love
feast to drink in the sweet spirit that was
present, and to feel the firm hand shakes
and hear the fervent "God bless you" was
indeed a benediction. Many there who
long since left the fold were coming back to
us, which made her heart rejoice. She had
nothing but praise for the Saints of Cali-
fornia, such a spirit of unity was in their
midst. This same spirit was present with
us this morning, this was what we desired.
Some of the later words of our Lord and
Master were that we should "be one, as He
and His Father were one." Referred to
the Relief Society meeting held in the
Templeton, and the resolutions adopted
there on the observance of the anniversary
of the organization of the Relief Society,
and the annual membership fee to be col-
lected, and the need of the same.
	Brother D. H. Peery was pleased to meet
with the sisters, could endorse what sister
Richards had said in regard to the good in-
fluence that is felt among the missionaries
out in the world. Felt that the mission
of the sisters was great, but that they
would prove themselve equal to the duties;
they were more noble in purpose than were
the brethren. "Peace is almost leaving the
earth, men are losing faith in each other
and a spirit of malice and hatred is taking
the place of love. This is not right, we
should cultivate a spirit of charity and love.
We have come here to be hid in the cham-
bers of the Lord while His judgments are
abroad, and this should be a land of peace.
We are on the eve of the greatest events
that have ever transpired." Thought the
sisters should leave behind them a monu-
ment in the shape of a house.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young addressed the
sisters. Said to her the faces of the Saints
were the most beautiful picture she could
look upon. Her desire was to comfort and
bless the sisters. She had never had a
doubt of the divinity of this work, had re-
ceived a testimony when a child, and felt
herself the happiest person in the world.
"The Lord has been so merciful to us and
the Gospel is so grand and so glorious,
there is in it such an inspiration, a power,
a peace that the world knows nothing of.
It is a very foretaste of heaven, a preparing
for that change—the reign of peace—it is
so soul-satisfying that we have no room

[Column 3]
for hard feelings." In looking back to the
days of Kirtland and seeing the prophet and
the Temple, her soul was stirred and she
rejoiced more than ever in this grand and
glorious work. Urged the sisters to read
the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and
Covenants. "Let your children see and
hear you read them and know that you en-
joy them, and you and they will be blessed."
Referred to her own mother and her read-
ing of the Book of Mormon just previous to
her death, and the calm resignation she ex-
hibited when reading the words, "I bid
you all farewell," knowing that it was her
own as well as the prophet's farewell to
earth. Said we should never speak disre-
spectfully of the priesthood, nor allow our
children to. We should feel that we have
no trouble, everything is beauty, grandeur
and harmony, even the peace that passeth
all understanding. The prophet told the
sisters they were to bless each other. "Let
us banish from our hearts everything that
is evil, and just as we prepare ourselves to
receive blessings, so they will increase.
May the Lord grant unto us the spirit of
inspiration, peace, joy and everything
glorious through Jesus."
	Brother Joseph Hall had greatly rejoiced
in the remarks of President Zina D. H.
Young, and knew that upon her rested the
spirit of the prophet and of the living God.
The sentiments she had uttered were grand
and enobling. Gave good instructions and
exhorted all to faithfulness.
	Sister Mary Lightner felt that the spirit
of the Lord was present. "We as Saints
should set good examples, we are as a
light set upon a hill. Men have testified
that there is a power among this people
that they cannot fathom. We should honor
the priesthood of the Lord, remembering
the fate of Aaron and his sister, beware of
our doings, speak no evil, but live to be
worthy of every blessing that the Lord has
in store for us." Told of a recent visit
with a Josephite, who tried to prove that
Joseph was a fallen prophet, how she was
able by the Holy Spirit to refute the same
and prove that he was what we claim, and
that his prophecies were daily being fulfilled.
Bore a powerful testimony to the divinity
of this work.
	Sister Emily Richards believed that in
confessing our faults we gained a blessing
that we could gain in no other way. Re-
ferred to her recent sickness and the time it
had given her for reflection. Wondered
what good deed she had ever done without
some selfish motive. These sick seasons
are precious moments to us, in which we
approach nearer to our Heavenly Father.
While in this mood Sister Zina had visited
her, bringing with her the spirit of health,
which is in her very touch. Knew the
spirit of the prophet rested upon her, and
that she was "blessed above women."
Referred to the reading of the Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants, and
the peace and joy such reading brings into
our lives. We should attend Relief Society
meetings and learn from our aged sisters
while they are still with us. Spoke of her
Washington experience and how the Lord
had aided her, that she had been able to
stem the tide of opposition that she had
met; also spoke of our sisters at the Wo-
man's Council, and the good they had
accomplished.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by
Bishop John Alred.
ACT. SEC.


[Column 1]
days were full of sorrow. He was succeeded
on the throne by the son of his old age,
Omer. Omer was a righteous but unfor-
tunate king. He lived to be exceedingly
old and two years before his death anoint-
ed his son Emer to reign in his stead.
	Emer was one of the best kings of his
race. In his reign the people prospered,
became owners of large herds of useful
animals and rich in manufactured goods.
Sixty-two years are numbered as his reign,
and he died full of years and honor. He
was succeeded by one of his sons, Corian-
lum, whom he had anointed four years
before his death.
	Coriantum was a righteous ruler, and
during his reign the people were blessed
and prospered and many large cities were
built. He lived until he was one hundred
and forty-two years old, and was succeeded
on the throne by his son Com.
	Com, the son of Coriantum, during his
reign the people increased greatly in num-
bers and spread widely over the land; but
they also grew in iniquity, and secret com-
binations that a few generations before had
almost caused the destruction of the race,
were revived. One of the leaders of these
bands was a son of Com’s named Heth.
This young man with others conspired
against the king, and Heth slew him with
his sword and reigned in his stead.
	Heth proved a cruel and vicious king,
and the people increased in wickedness.
The Lord sent many prophets among them
who called upon them to repent, declaring
if they did not a terrible famine should
come upon the land; but their words were
rejected and they were cruelly persecuted.
	The people still persisted in their iniquity
and the famine came as predicted, and
the horrors that attended can scarcely be
imagined. Disease followed and the peo-
ple rapidly perished. Then those who re-
mained began to repent and called upon the
Lord, and when they had sufficiently hum-
bled themselves the Lord sent the long
needed rain and the remnants of the race be-
gan to revive, then Shez, the only survivor
of the royal house, reigned over the few
that remained. Shez was a virtuous mon-
arch and taught his people righteousness,
and they were greatly prospered. He lived
to a great age and at his death was succeed-
ed by his youngest son, Riplakish.
	Riplakish greatly afflicted his people by
imposing on them heavy taxes, and when
they could not pay them cast them into
prison, where he compelled them to labor
to sustain him in his luxury and wicked-
ness. If any prisoner refused he was put
to death. For forty-two years the people
endured these oppressions, they then re-
belled, rose, and in their anger slew the
king and drove his descendants out of the
land,and what form of government followed
is not known, but after many years one of
his descendants, Morianton,established him-
self as king.
	Morianton was mild in disposition though
energetic, and during his reign the people
prospered and the nation grew exceedingly
rich. He lived to a very great age and
eight years before his death abdicated in
favor of his son Kim. Kim was a wicked
king and the Lord was so displeased with
him that he permitted his brother to rebel
against him and dethrone him, and held
him in captivity the remainder of his life.
	Levi, the son of Kim, when he was forty- 
two years old rose in rebellion and deposed
his uncle, who occupied the throne. He
was a righteous king and the people

[Column 2]
prospered under his reign, and at his death
was succeeded by his son Corom.
	Corom was a good king all his days, and
he died at a very advanced age, when his
son Kish ascended the throne. Nothing is
known of his character, but at his death
his son Lib succeeded him.
	Lib lived many years, was blessed with
a numerous posterity, and the sacred his-
torian Ether writes: "Never could be a
people more blessed than they, and more
prospered by the Lord.” They greatly ad-
vanced in the arts of civilization, they im-
proved in the manufacture of goods, agri-
culture and mining. When Lib died he
was succeeded by his son Hearthom.
	After Hearthom had reigned twenty-
four years the kingdom was wrested from
him and he was held in captivity the re-
mainder of his life. Nothing is known of
his character. For some time the kingdom
was ruled by usurpers.
	The next rightful heir to the throne was
Aaron, a son of Heth and a grandson of
Hearthom the king. He, with his grand-
father and father Heth and his son Amni-
gaddah, and his son Coriantum also, were
kept in captivity by the usurpers, but in
after years the kingdom was reconquered
and the dynasty restored.
	After a lengthy war Com, the son of
Coriantum, regained possession of the king-
dom. At this time it was divided, one
half being governed by Amghid, but after
a desolating war of years Com gained
power over the whole realm. While he
was king robber bands began to appear and
sought to destroy the kingdom. Com
fought these bands valiantly without suc-
cess, for the people generally were in sym-
pathy with them. Many prophets were
sent of the Lord who foretold the destruc-
tion of the race if they did not repent of
their wickedness. But they heeded not
the voice of warning, their words were re-
jected and the wicked Jaredites sought the
lives of the men of God. The king pro-
tected the prophets and while they were
with him they prophecied many things for
his comfort, and he was blessed of the Lord
the remainder of his days. He lived to a
good old age and was succeeded to the
throne by his son Shiblon.
	(Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NOTICE TO ALL THOSE INTER-
      ESTED IN SILK CULTURE IN
	   THE STATE OF UTAH.
	The Utah Silk Commission desires to
call attention to the fact that the time for
raising silk is again upon us, and we trust
that those who intend entering upon the
work this year will write to us at once for
eggs. Those who are taking up the work
for the first time will kindly state the num-
ber and size of the trees from which they
can obtain leaves; also the number of per-
sons who can give their time during the
latter period of the raising season, so that
we will be able to send the necessary
amount of eggs.
	We also desire to state that eggs can
be obtained from the commission free, and
we would prefer every one who is going
to raise the worms to have eggs from us as
we provide a quality which gives a much
better result than those raised by people
having little or no experience. We will
also send pamphlet of instructions free to
any one wishing information upon the sub-
ject.

[Column 2]
   We trust that many people throughout
the state have already planted numbers of
mulberry trees, and have been watchful
lest any of those which have grown are in
danger of being destroyed. We also wish
to say to those who have trees and do not
care to use them that they may do a great deal
towards establishing this important indus-
try by allowing others to use the leaves,
and we assure you that it will only benefit
the trees even if they are stripped several
times, they will soon become much more
thrifty, and this will also be a means of dis-
posing of the fruit which is sometimes an
annoyance especially when trees are planted
on the street. The best mulberry seed can
also be obtained from the commission.
	As a whole, the commission feels very
much encouraged with the results of last
year’s work, and trust it will be very much
increased this year, in all the departments
of work. Address all communications to
			MARGARET A. CAINE,
Secretary Utah Silk Commission, Salt
Lake City, Utah.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
	   Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
	   The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
	   We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		Lorenzo Snow, Prest.
		George M. Cannon, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

		NOTICE.

To complete my volumes of the Woman’s
Exponent I lack the following numbers:
Volume VII., No. 3, July 1, 1878; Volume
XI., No. 16, January 15,1873; VolumeXIII.,
Nos. 1 and 2, June 1 and 15, 1884; Vol-
ume XVI., No. 20, March 15, 1888; also
April 1, 1892, and October 1, 1895.
	To any one willing to part with them I
will pay ten cents a paper, but please com-
municate by letter or card before sending
papers. Address
				ROMANIA B. PRATT,
   Room 226 Constitution Bldg., S. L. City.

R. K. THOMAS
	Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
	SALT LAKE CITY.
	The Leading Retail
	Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 27. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1899. No. 21.


CONTENTS:
	Labor and Expansion—Cornelia S. Robinson.
In Memoriam. March 17th Celebration—E. Crane
Watson. Anniversary Day at Denver—Jane W.
M. Skolfield. Notes and News. Address—Em-
meline B. Wells. R. S. Reports. Gone to Rest
—Mary A Gardner. A Sketch of the Jaredites—
E. H. Lyon. Reorganize the Red Cross. Massa-
chusetts Debate on Polygamy. Notice—R. B. Pratt.
	EDITORIAL:—Notices. In Our Day. Anniver-
sary and New Hall. A Pleasant Gathering.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Our Old Folks—Alofa. A Mother’s
Prayer—Nina Eckart. The Magic Key—R. N F.


[Column 1]
	OUR OLD FOLKS.
No matter which way I look today,
There are heads of white or of silver gray;
There are shoulders bowed and bent;
There are hardened hands that tremble so;
There are feet that falter, so weak and slow;—
Sweet graces which Time has lent—
There are furrowed brows, and eyes grown
	dim,
As from trouble and toil and tears;
There are hollow cheeks and quivering lips,
That have followed the flight of years.
No matter where I turn today,
There are voices near me that seem to say,
  “Oh, what beauty mine eyes behold
In the good and noble who mingle here
To partake of the love, to feel the cheer—
Those beautiful souls grown old—
Grown old neath their burdens of toil and
	care,
Grown old in the school of love,
Grown old with the griefs that have been their
	share;
Grown dear to their God above.”

Each bending form doth a story tell,
'Tis old but true—you may read it well—
The tale of paternal care:
“To provide a home for my girls and boys,
To relieve their wants, to increase their joys,
And to give to each his share
Of happy days and of pleasant hours,
To make his pathway bright,
I have borne the heavy weight of toil,
From early morn till night.”

Those trembling, hardened, sunbrowned
	hands
Have scattered blessings in many lands,
And in many a cheerless cot;
They have sown the seed, they have held the
	plow,
Have tenderly pressed the fevered brow;
Have gifts to the needy brought;
They have deftly fashioned the beautiful
	robes,
Which their sons and daughters wear;
They have lifted the curse from a barren land.
And have made it good and fair.

Those feet that travel so very slow,
And best when they have not far to go,
Once moved with an easy grace.
And they went on errands of love and cheer,
On missions of mercy far and near,
Scarce seeking a resting place,
And no path was too rough, no road too 
	long,
For those willing feet to try,

[Column 2]
Not e’en when it led o’er trackless plains,
So dreary, parched and dry.

Those eyes now dim were once so bright,
They beamed with joy and love and light;
But the passing tide of years
Has found them perusing the gospel plan, 
Or seeking the good in erring man, 
Has found them dimmed with tears; 
Has found them keeping their nightly watch
By some poor sufferer’s bed—
What wonder if they are dim today,
If the luster and light have fled!

Those quivering lips have made our heaven,
Have chided wrong, have counsel given,
Have soothed life’s storms away;
They have told of faith and of holy love.
Of a death below, of a life above;
They have taught our lips to pray;
They have sung the Great Redeemer’s praise
In accents clear and mild;
Have led the wayward sinner home
From haunts by sin defiled.

The furrowed brow, the silvered hair, 
The cheek grown hollow with toil and care
Are tokens of honor due—
Due from their pretty, red-cheeked girls,
With dainty gowns and glossy curls,
And from budding manhood, too.
Then give them a smile as you pass them by,
And bid them a kind good-day;
And be ready to lend a helping hand
To assist them along their way.

And for our dear fathers and mothers true,
May the way grow brighter the whole day
	through,
And the cross less hard to bear.
We know the path has been often drear,
With doubt and danger lurking near,
With heartfelt griefs to share;
But the light that shines from our Father’s,
	throne
E’en now you can dimly see—
In that beautiful home, oh, how full your joy,
How complete shall your glory be!
								ALOFA.
	Written for the old folks’ entertainment at
Fairview Feb. 22, 1899.


[Column 1]
LABOR AND EXPANSION.

	In our new possessions Hawaii and Porto
Rico we have a problem, the magnitude of
which we have scarcely begun to realize,
listen as attentively as we may; the pulse of
the nation beats irregularly with the proba-
bility of augmenting the labor difficulties
now being experienced in the south.
	But war gave us Porto Rico, we could
scarcely help ourselves, and Hawaii—well
we have Hawaii.
	If we should ever regret their acquisition
or be called upon to apologize for annexing
either island, at least we may make the
plausible excuse that they are within the
hemisphere ! Jealous of the principle in-
volved in the Monroe doctrine, we may
with a degree of honorable consistency
say to all monarchial or aristocratic forms of
government—hands off! No governmental
institutions lower than a democracy shall
exist in this hemisphere !
	Here it may be observed that with the

[Column 2]
possibility of suffrage in both these inferior
territories it would be an insult to the in-
telligence of our women suffragists should
they be suspected of advocating the annex-
ation of a still more inferior country, name-
ly, the Philippines.
	It seems necessary to retrace the events
that led to the first decisive blow in our
controversy with Spain. Suffice it to say
that curiously enough this blow was struck
in another hemisphere, and resulted in a
victory without parallel in the history of
warfare, and the Stars and Stripes floated
over Manila. Thus the exigencies of war
brought us face to face with a question of
which we had never before even dreamed,
and the excitement of victory may be urged
as a partial excuse for having made two
mistakes, first in demanding the island and
second in paying $20,000,000, practically
bearing all the expense of the war, in that
direction, which by debauchery, oppression
and treachery Spain had brought upon her-
self, a transaction without parallel, consider-
ing the character and location of the terri-
tory.
	Now that the enthusiasm of victory has
subsided, we shall have no excuse if we
make a third mistake. Mamia will be re-
tained as a coaling station, an advantage
which could have been secured without the
burden of possession, but what advantage
can be derived from the rest of the islands.
In the first place they are so remote from
the United States that affiliation would be
impossible under the most favorable con-
ditions for the next five hundred years!
Secondly, the resources consist of products
almost wholly extractive or agricultural,
and even though the islands are rich in
such products, what do they offer us that is
not at our very doors, even in our great
northwest? What climate necessary to a
peculiar product that we cannot find some-
where within the boundary of the United
States? Aye, and where great tracts of
fertile land may be had for the asking, with
no increase of burden to our government,
nor additional taxation to our citizens.
	It is said the resources of the islands are
great and trade will be increased, as with
annexation the duties will be abolished;
and what advantage would this be to the
nation with labor in the Philippines at ten
cents per day?
	On the one hand we are seriously con-
sidering the advisability of more adequately
restricting immigration, and on the other
hand we are struggling to annex ten mil-
lions of people at one stroke, whose average
wage level is ten cents per day; a number
it would take years to annex by immigra-
tion. In this situation what becomes of
the principle involved in our protective
policy ?
	We pride ourselves, and justly, upon the
fact that the protective policy in fostering
industry prohibits the competition of cheap
labor, and thus maintains the American
standard of wages. Shall we abandon the
beneficent policy at one stroke? Again, we
all agree that previous immigration has
made this country what it is. Surely these
immigrants have a right to consideration.


[Column 1]  
   It may be asked how this labor will
come in direct competition. The fact that
capitalists are always seeking the lowest
cost of production (and rightly) will be
sufficient reason for the removal to the
Philippines of numerous factories, should
they be annexed, and taking advantage of
the low priced labor send their products,
here in competition free of all duty. In
the nature of our chosen policy, have we
the right to permit this course? This same
policy conserved the market to the producer;
he has spent his time and energies in the
production of capital, and the acquisition
of wealth; he has been lifted to the plane of
opulence and labor as a market has con-
tributed the means. Now a new era dawns,
and the policy that has directly benefited
the capitalist and indirectly the laborer 
should be made to react and directly benefit
the laborer.
   This can only be accomplished by con-
serving the reactionary forces within the
group or nation, and the benefits can only
be retarded by the introduction of deterior-
ating forces, such as the Philippines, which
cannot be doubted when we recognize the
social, economic and moral status of the
islands. The social plane must be the low-
est when their only wants consist of shel-
ter, food and clothing to partially cover
their nakedness, and perhaps ornamental
decorations for their naked bodies. Since
their social wants are so meagre and simple,
their industries cannot be complex, and
therefore we find them almost wholly in the
stage of hand labor.
   Their moral status is unmistakable when
we recall the prevailing custom of cannibal-
ism in many of the islands. No matter how
temptingly the feast may be prepared, al-
though in the preparation the body is stuf-
fed with sweet potatoes, breadfruit and
bananas laid on taro leaves, we can scarcely
divest ourselves of the horror of the thought
of human sacrifice for such a purpose.
   Believe in absorption as we may, assured-
ly we prefer that accomplished by social
affiliation to that of physical assimilation!
But joking aside, what horrors may be de-
picted in the subjugation of this race of
barbarians and cannibals, in comparison to
which the Indian massacres in the North-
west were child’s play. Added to this
would be the inevitable increased taxation
necessary to the maintenance of an army
and navy adequate to cope with the diffi-
culties of the situation. And all to what
end?
   A people in the stage of hand labor can-
not furnish a market for a machine using
country, and the only advantage would
accrue to the capitalist individually, to the
great disadvantage of the wage earner of
America. True the introduction of factor-
ies might benefit the Filipinos.
   Texas’ annual cotton crop is between
three and four million bales, yet the great
state boasts of only four insignificant cotton
mills, and our South awaits the further
coming of the factories, the only solution to
the distressing problem that lies in our
midst, and in addition we now have Hawaii
and Porto Rico and the responsibility of
Cuba.
   How dare we pass them over and direct
our interest and capital to so remote a peo-
ple as the Filipinos?
   What duty, in the name of humanity, do
we owe to the Filipinos, that we may with
impunity deny to our own south, our north-
west, our new territories and the immigrants
in our cities and towns? With the out-

[Column 2]
come of neglect in these directions we are
already familiar. By what process of reason-
ing may we benefit other people to the in-
jury of our own? To make it quite clear,
it should be repeated, that to give the
capitalist opportunity to take advantage of
remote low priced labor, to bring it without
impediment in competition with our native
labor, is a crime unpardonable in the present
stage of American civilization and repudi-
ation of protective principle.
   It is the folly of sentimentality that claims
the Filipinoes can be affiliated; there can be
no affiliation with Poles, Bohemians and
Italians who come to our great centres;
here they colonize for that very reason, and
by perpetuating old world customs, be-
come a menace to our social and moral life
and a check to our industrial development,
and with their old world ideas and govern-
ment become dangerous to the permanence
of existing institutions. Witness the growth
of socialism which has made possible the
election of three socialist mayors, one of
them the mayor of Boston.
   If the Poles, Bohemians and Italians,
with whom we brush elbows, cannot be
affiliated, how much less will it be possible
to affiliate ten millions of an alien race iso-
lated in another hemisphere? And if this
is not true, why should our altruism halt
at the Philippines? Why not reach into
Asia and Turkey? Will not the flag carry
civilization to them also? Upon the
principle that would lead us to annex the
Philippines, what right have we to deny
the advantage to those benighted countries ?
Upon what principles, indeed, do our ex-
pansionists draw the line at the Philippines?
Let us not make the fatal mistake of pros-
tituting the purity of our flag by claiming
for it that which it does not do.
   It cannot carry trade to the Philippines;
it would appear that the Filipinos must
learn to wear shirts before there can be a
demand for our factory made goods. No,
our flag does not carry trade, but follows it;
and what trade shall we acquire there that
we have not already possessed at vastly less
cost than the maintenance of the islands as
a territory ? Can the flag give them great-
er liberty than they now enjoy? Why,
they can even eat each other, and by way
of variety, an occasional trader or mission-
ary, without impairing their digestion. Re-
ligious liberty they certainly possess, when
the range is from Catholicism to the most 
revolting forms of fetish worship that these
extremes exist, that the gradations in re-
ligious sentiment do not exist, is abundant
proof that they cannot even affiliate with
themselves. It will take the evolution of
hundreds of years to bring ten millions of
ten cent a day laborers to the point of de-
siring freedom. Need we pause to analyze
their moral status? We can scarcely ex-
pect a moral status within a people who
have not yet learned to wear clothes. Per-
haps this is an error and these islands are a
new Garden of Eden, where the traditional
apple has not yet been plucked; a paradise
from which state in our perhaps mistaken
idea of progress we are ever moving further
away. But seriously, shall we hoist the
flag in a land that can bring us nothing in
products that we do not already or may
produce? Shall we hoist the flag over an
alien people that capitalists may use them
to undersell our home labor ? We will
hoist our flag as an incentive to hope and as
a promise that they shall be sustained on
every plane to which they may arise by
their own efforts.

[Column 3]
   The capitalists have had their era; we
needed them and we need them now; capital
is necessary to the development of extensive
enterprise. It is now in good working or-
der, and it should not be allowed to move
into a foreign land.
   It should be used to fulfill the promise of
our protective policy, and be forced to react
upon our laborers.
   We want more industries; we want great-
er and better facilities for education; we
want our country put in a perfectly sanitary
condition; we want to stamp out the sweat
shops; we want to add dignity to labor; we
want the race problem solved.
   The business of this era is not the acquisi-
tion of new territory, it is to lift the masses
out of the degradation of poverty, and when
this is accomplished, with the superabund-
ance we have on hand, it well be time
enough to lay hold of another hemisphere.
		CORNELIA S. ROBINSON.
   Read before the Woman’s Council at
Washington.


WOMANS EXPONENT


IN MEMORIAM.

	ANN HOSSACK MCGREGOR.
	Ann H. McGregor died at her home in
Salt Lake City, February 4, 1899, after a
long and painful illness due to cancer.
	She was born February 7, 1822, at Bal-
frone, Stirlingshire, Scotland, was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, October 8, 1842. She left her
native land and came to this country in
1849, residing in St. Louis,Mo.,six months,
then in Council Bluffs, la., until 1852. She
traveled across the plains in Capt. Wood’s
company, arriving in Salt Lake City, Sep-
tember, 1852.
	She was the wife of William McGregor,
now deceased. She was the mother of
ten children, and leaves forty one grand-
children and fourteen great grandchildren.
	Sister McGregor has endeared herself to
all by her solicitude for others, and by the
heroic fortitude with which she has borne
her great suffering. In the Second ward she
has come to be familiarly known as the
“Mother of the Ward,” having been a
prominent officer and an enthusiastic work-
er in the Relief Society and other benevo-
lent organizations from the time of their
establishment, and every office she has held
she has filled it with honor. She died firm
in the Gospel, with the hope of a glorious
resurrection.
	Funeral services were held on her birth-
day, February 7, 1899, at 12 m., in the 2nd
ward assembly hall.
				HANNAH OLSEN, Sec.


Miss Anthony will sail for England June
2, to attend the quinquennial meeting of
the Woman’s International Council to be
held in London. Rev. Anna H. Shaw,
Miss Lucy E. Anthony, Miss Howland
and other friends are planning to go by the
same steamer. It will be a merry party of
suffragists.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton calls atten-
tion to the fact that in several European
countries taxpaying women are allowed to
vote by proxy. She says: “Only the other
day I was talking with a man from Sweden
who told me that at the last election in his
district he had cast fifteen votes, one for
himself and the rest for his mother, wife
and aunts, all of whom were property hold-
ers.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY DAY AT DENVER.
	By special invitation the Denver branch
of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints met at the home
of Sister Jane W. Manning Skolfield at
1205 Evans St., to commemorate “Anni-
versary Day.”
	The meeting was called to order at 2:30
p. m., by President Eva E. Haley, ten
members responding to roll call. The
guests of the afternoon were Sisters Rosa
Koch of Manassa, Dollie Russell of Cone-
jos, Mamie Dihgee and Mrs. J. T. Jones of


Denver. The meeting opened with sing-
ing “How great the wisdom and the love.”
Prayer by Sister Skolfield. Singing,
“Though deepening trials throng, your
way.” The recording secretary, Sister
Mary W. Ensign, read the minutes of the
previous meeting which were accepted.
She also read the minutes of the first Relief
Society organized at Nauvoo and repub-
lished in the “Exponent,” and afterwards
a statistical and financial report of our
society since its reorganization in Septem-
ber 1898, showing a great deal of valuable
work done by the few active members.
	The corresponding secretary then read a
letter from Mrs. E. B. Wells, the official notices
regarding Anniversary Day and an extract
from the Deseret News of the Utah ladies’
visit to Washington, D. C.
	Sisters Sophia Luce, Mary Ensign and
Florence Benjamin sang as a trio, “O, my
Father.” A very instructive and carefully
prepared paper by Sister Hannah E. Long
was read, entitled “How the Home and
the Mother Influence our Lives.”
	At the conclusion of the program light,
refreshments were served, by the hostess,
assisted by Sister Hannah E. Long. The
house was tastefully decorated in pink and
white, the blinds were drawn to shut out
the dismal, stormy day, numbers of lamps
were lighted, shading from red to white.
	The meeting closed with a vote of thanks 
to the hostess for the pleasant afternoon and 
singing “The time is far spent.” Prayer
by Sister Ellen Rosenvall.
	JANE W. M. SKOLFIELD, Cor. Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Progressive Chinese women have started
a weekly publication called the Feminine
Magazine. The staff consists of women only.
	Women have more sense about machin-
ery in a minute, says Edison, than men
have in a lifetime, and to confirm his belief
he has two hundred women on his pay roll.
	The newly elected president of Sorosis
who has been acting president since the
resignation of Mrs. Mary Dame Hall, Mrs.
D. T. Dennison, is sister to Mrs. May N.
Knaggs, president of the Michigan Wo-
man’s Suffrage Association.
	Mrs. Fanny Humphreys Gaffney, presi-
dent of the National Council of Women,
has been reelected president of the New York
City Society for Political Study. The
society meets every Tuesday afternoon at
226 West 58th St.
	The Countess Schimmelman, who has
given up a royal palace to preach to the
poor and unfortunate, spoke to the convicts
at Joliet, Illinois, on March 12, making an
earnest appeal which affected many of the
men to tears. Later she addressed the wo-
men prisoners.
	Immediately after the Speaker’s gavel
dismissed the 55th Congress, some one on
the floor of the House started up “My
Country ’Tis of Thee.” Immediately others
joined, the galleries caught up the strain
and all the people rose and joined in the
national anthem until the walls echoed to
the sound. At the close General Hender-
son started “Auld Lang Syne” which was
taken up as eagerly; then J. M. Mitchell
led the voices in the “Red, White and Blue.”
Then after cheers for Dewey and Wheeler
and the army and navy heroes generally,
House and galleries grew quiet as they
joined in singing the Doxology.


MARCH 17TH CELEBRATION

Dear Editor:
	I wonder if there are any who care to
read of the unpretentious ward of Parowan,
or rather the Relief Society of this ward?
At all events, we feel that we should be
rendering an account of ourselves, conse-
quently we will write of our celebration oh
the 17th of March.
	At 2 p. m. we held a program meeting,
the time being occupied by a number of the
elderly sisters speaking on the object of the
Relief Society, the good accomplished by
the society, etc., etc., some very appropri-
ate recitations by the younger sisters with
some well chosen songs and sentiments,
making those present feel like saying, “It
is good to be here.”
	In the evening the organization gave a
ball, the members of the society contribut-
ing a dainty lunch and chocolate; this also
was a decided success socially and financial-
ly, for besides all expenses we raised the
ten cent fund for the General Board which
is $15.20, having a membership of one
hundred and fifty two members.
	Many of our members are young mothers
whose first duty is to guard and guide the
precious jewels an indulgent Parent has en-
trusted to them, hence our average at-
tendance is not large, yet there is a certain
magical link that seems to chain us togeth-
er so that whenever we aim for anything in
righteousness we are sure to gain it.
	May the love of God abide with every
such organization the world over, with
wishes that our dear little organ, the “Ex-
ponent,” may be enabled to spread the glad
tidings of Relief Society labors.
				E. CRANE WATSON.


THE MAGIC KEY.

’Twas a novel thing in that distant day,
When females could neither preach, nor pray,
With lifted voice to organize,
A band of women, however wise,
But to found a grand society,
With exalted views of charity,
And with this injunction: “Go feed the poor,
Clothe the naked, bind up the sore,
Visit the feeble, lead the blind,
Also cultivate the female mind,
And provoke the brethren to good works,”— 
Was strange indeed.

And who believed that a magic key 
Was turned that day, for liberty
To have a fuller, broader sway;
That woman, too, might win her way
Upward and onward, till she should stand,
As God originally planned,
When he placed her a beauteous bride,
Happy and free by her husband’s side;
Saying, “be ye one, together reign
Over all the earth, the sea and plain,
All things are yours contained therein,
From the mountain’s crest to the ocean’s brim;
The fruits, the flowers, the birds that fly,
All things that live beneath the sky.”

But alas! there came a mighty fall
From her high estate to a pampered doll,
Or a slave to man, fair woman fell;
Of her durance vile, ah! who shall tell,
Of her cries for freedom, her piteous tears,
Her helpless struggle through all the years. 

But lo! in the western sky a light,
Scattering the murky clouds of night;
And a prophet’s voice is heard to cry— 
Rejoice ye fair ones, your time is nigh,
Break from your shackles, from bondage flee;”
And they answer back, “We will be free,
Long, long, we have waited for thy word,
Thanks be to God, our prayers are heard!”

’Tis fifty seven years today, look back
And mark ye well the toilsome track,
Where are ye now O, womankind?
Your fears as if by a mighty wind,
Or a heaving tide, have been swept away,
Higher and higher ye mount each day, 
The best of earth is yours to gain,
To the topmost heights ye may attain.

But ye of the blessed sisterhood,
That yields such marvelous power for good;


Ye who were called—a chosen band—
Ordained and sealed by a prophet’s hand,
To be a part of that unity,
Which heralds to all men liberty;
In you I see a glorious ray,
Which shall luminate the latter-day.
Already ye teach, exhort and bless,  
And lead in ways of righteousness; 
Yea, speak in tongues and prophecy,
By a mighty gift from Him on high; 
And greater than this shall ye become,
Ye must advance as the years doth run;
No earthly power can bid ye stay,
If ye will but walk in Wisdom’s way;
Your husbands, too, will turn with pride,
To the faithful counselor at his side—
A polished jewel whose virtues rare, 
Will add to his honor anywhere;
Who forgetteth not with womanly ken, 
That she shineth most as a mother of men
Who will laud her fame through eternity,
As she moves in that Grand Equality.		
							R. M. F.
March 17, 1899.


A MOTHER’S PRAYER.

Oh! March winds blow, blow strong I pray,
And waft a message far away
To distant lands, where now there lay 
A soldier, sick and wounded—
Oh! fan his fevered brow and give 
Him strength to rally and to live.

Oh! March winds blow and softly sigh, 
And tell him that he must not die,
Oh! tell him if he’ll only try,
That God may let him rally.
Tell him of the love that waits
To greet him at his dear home gate.

March winds sing to him a song,
And tell him of a love so strong, 
A love which waiting, yearning longs
For his return.
And should he hear the death knell sound, 
Oh! sing and make his heart rebound.

But wind, oh! take for me a prayer 
To One above, oh! bear, please bear 
Just once for me a message there
Unto the King,
Oh! tell Him all my life I give,
If He will let my loved one live.
					NINA ECKART.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1899.


OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.

	During the early part of April there will 
be issued by the Deseret News a new
Church work entitled “The Articles of
Faith,” the same being a series of lectures
on the principal doctrines of the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, by Dr. 
James E. Talmage. The lectures were 
prepared by appointment of the First Presi-
dency, and the book will be published by 
the Church. It is intended for use as a 
text book in Church schools, Sunday 
schools, Improvement associations, quorums
of the Priesthood and other Church organi-
zations in which the study of Theology is 
pursued, and also for individual use among
the members of the Church. The work has 
been approved by the First Presidency, and 
I heartily commend it to the members of 
the Church. 
				LORENZO SNOW.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The general conference of the Relief Soci-
ety will be held on Saturday April 8, 1899,
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, this city,
meetings commencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p.
m. as usual. It is desirable that there should
be representation from each Stake organiza-
tion of the society, either the president or
other officer should attend. All members of
the society are cordially invited, also the Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primary Association.
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
					President.
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
					Counselors,


[Column 1]
IN OUR OWN DAY.

	The times are replete with interest and
abounding in news just at present with the
cruel war in a foreign land. One may
think less of the terrors of battle because of
the long distance across the seas, but in
every mother’s heart there is a constant
anxiety and yearning, not only for her
own, which is certainly the most agoniz-
ing, but for the boys of “our country,”
and one cannot avoid asking the question,
at least of one’s self, “Is it worth the strug-
gle and the lives of our brave men, the
flower of the country, and when and how
will the battle end?”
	The article published in this issue given
at the National Council in Washington by
Mrs. Robinson, sets forth phases of the

[Column 2]
question which may be pondered upon
with deliberation. Very few if any compre-
hend, even in a small part, what it means to
take possession of the Philippine Islands.
Our women should study it carefully, re-
member that here in this “free Western
land” women have equal rights with men
and should seek to inform themselves on
these momentous subjects of our own day
and time. Ancient history and the wars
of other ages may be and are well worth
study and research, but if one makes her- 
self or himself fairly conversant with this
day, it will be more in keeping with the
spirit of progress of which we are apt to
talk so much and know so little.
	We turn back and applaud the heroes of
the past, military, civic and intellectual,and
neglect those whose lives are interwoven
with the days in which we are living, and
leave it to the future to try to understand
or to accredit those of our own generation.
	As a matter of fact there have been great
men in this century, and greater achieve-
ments in many directions too numerous to
give in a brief article, than in any other
century since the dawn of the Christian era.
	Go over the list of the men whose names
are familiar, and of men and women who
are living today; think of what has been ac-
complished in the century about to close,
and one will find he need not go back to
Greece or Rome or the days of the Crusaders 
or times of chivalry for heroes or heroines.
Current events are worth the closest study,
and if it is expected with the facilities of
this enlightened age to stamp on history’s
page the brightest and most famous record
of advancement in all that is high and
noble, progressive and remarkable, then
the men and women, the boys and girls
now doing battle with life and its enter-
prises must know the living people, the
heroic activities, the brilliant acheivements,
the splendid victories, the thrilling episodes,
as well as the men and women who figured
conspicuously, and whose unparalleled
courage, mental and spiritual, as well as
physical and moral, has made possible the
age extraordinary, surpassing all others in
phenomenal developments, in science, phil-
osophy and all the ’osophies; marvels of the
metaphysical as well as a sublimity of
idealism, and a more positive realism of
common life among the children of men as
it actually exists than the world has ever
known. That there is a great upheaval,
a great crisis approaching no one seems to
doubt who watches the signs of the times,
and especially those filled with inspiration
who write and speak prophetically of
things to come. Justice is to return to
earth and Truth though crushed will rise
again triumphant, and there will be a new
day and a better generation, who will
write and prophesy surpassing what has
ever been since the Savior’s time, and the
lives of the people who keep the laws of
life and health and live righteously will be
prolonged and there will be a chosen peo-
ple who will seek diligently for the
precious treasures of wisdom, knowledge
and understanding that are to be revealed
to the wise and the prudent.


[Column 1]
ANNIVERSARY AND NEW HALL.

	The new hall in the 15th ward has been
completed and was opened for the first
time the 17th of March, 1899. The build-
ing has two stories and a large meeting
hall on the upper floor, with convenient
rooms for entertaining, and cloak rooms,

[Column 2]
etc. This society was one of the first or-
ganized and has always been progressive in
financial affairs, and in Spiritual matters
has been up to the spirit of the times. Its
president, Sarah M. Kimball, who had
charge over forty years, led out in enter-
prise and set an example to others. Presi-
dent Harriet A. Badger who has succeeded
Mrs. Kimball will doubtless follow her ex-
ample and keep things moving onward and
upward.
	The larger hall where the sisters con-
vened was prettily decorated with flowers,
plants and bunting, etc., and a regular
program had been arranged. President H.
A. Badger presided, Bishop R. T. Burton,
Elder S. W. Richards and Mrs. E. B. Wells
were present by invitation. Meeting opened
by singing “Praise to the man,” Prayer
was offered by Bishop Burton, followed by
the favorite hymn, “O, my Father.”
President Badger read the minutes of the
organization of thet society on the 17th of
March 1842, and some important remarks
made by the Prophet Joseph at subsequent
meetings. A Song, “Be not the first to
cast the stone,” was finely rendered by one
of the sweet singers of Israel, Mrs. Maggie
Hull.
	Bishop Burton spoke feelingly of Nauvoo
and Joseph Smith, mentioning some inci-
dents that appealed especially to him.
	Elder S. W. Richards related reminiscen-
ces of those early times and his familiar
acquaintance in his boyhood with the
Prophet Joseph.
	Mrs. Mary L. Morris recited an original
poem on Church history with good effect.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells referred to the origin
and growth of the society as a whole and
incidentally alluded to her recent visit in
Washington.
	A song by Mrs. Maude Pratt Griggs,
“Forget me not,” was charmingly rendered.
Miss Nellie Morris read a paper on the late
President Sarah M. Kimball, giving some
of the distinctive characteristics her in-
dividuality and remarkable incidents in her
life, and at the close read some of her trite
sayings found among her papers:
	“Life’s journey is full of God-given
opportunities to sow and to reap rich har-
vests.”
	“The secret of success is in improving
present opportunities.”
	“Cultivate high and holy aspirations;
Christ said, ‘Be ye perfect even as your
Father in heaven is perfect.’ To be perfect
is just to do the best we know how to do
day by day.”
	“The record of a good life sheds lustre
upon declining years.”
	Miss Prudie Brown recited “The Lady Hil-
degarde,” in a very pleasing voice and
style. Miss Sarah E. F. Price read a
carefully prepared paper “The Progress Wo-
men have Made.” This closed the program;
there was singing and benediction, after
which refreshments were served in the hos-
pitable manner of the Relief Society in all
places and on all similar occasions.
ANNIVERSARY.
	The 7th of March being the anniversary
of the birthday of Mrs. Rachel R. Grant,
president of the Relief Society in the 13th
ward of this city even since its organization,
a party was given in her honor at the
residence of Bishop N. A. Empey, which
was a very happy affair. Many of the old
friends of Sister Grant were present, also
the officers of the society over which she
has presided for so many years, and a num-


ber of the members. Mrs. Empey’s par-
lors were decorated with bright carnations,
and refreshments were served on large and
small tables where guests were seated in
groups, chatting and renewing acquaintan-
ces of by-gone days. President Grant
looked radiantly happy as she sat in the
midst of the feast, and no one would sus-
pect who did not know that her years were
so long upon the earth, for assuredly she
has grown beautiful with age.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A PLEASANT GATHERING.
	Mrs. Amelia F. Young celebrated her
father’s eightieth birthday, Elder William
H. Fulsom, at her residence in this city.
Mrs. Young is a charming hostess and in
former days very much accustomed to en-
tertaining large companies, and the affair
proved to be very interesting and enjoyable
to the assembled guests, forty in number.
Among them were Prest. Lorenzo Snow
and wife, Prest. George Q. Cannon and
wife, President Jos, F. Smith and wife,
Apostle Brigham Young and wife, Prest.
Angus M. Cannon and wife, Bishop Geo.
H. Taylor and wife, Bishop Nelson A.
Empey and wife, Hon. T. G. Webber and
wife, Hon. Le Grande Young and wife,
Mrs. Margaret Y. Taylor, Mrs. M. M. Bar-
ratt, Mrs. Chloe R. Eldridge, Mrs. E. Mc-
Donald, Mrs. Mary Gates and others.
	The spacious parlors and dining room
were tastefully decorated for the happy
occasion, Brother Fulsom looked the
picture of health and happiness, and one
could scarcely believe he had seen the
snows of eighty winters, so erect in figure
and in full possession of all his faculties,
with the increase of wisdom that comes
with fulness of years and a well spent life.
	The afternoon was passed in social con-
versation and interchange of ideas, and
when such old friends meet there are many
old-time recollections that are of particular
interest.
	The tables were elegant in white napery
and all the newest style appointments,
decorated with flowers and trailing green
vines, and the guests were waited upon by
four pretty young girls in white who seem-
ingly anticipated the wish of every guest.
	The banquet consisted of the choicest and
most delicate viands, and the hour spent at
table was a delightful one to all. Mrs.
Carlie Young Cannon, a daughter of Brig-
ham Young, presented the guest of honor,
Brother Fulsom, with a handsome bouquet
of rare flowers; and many congratulations
from the distinguished brethren and sisters
present were extended with ardent hopes
for happy returns of the day, and that he
might live as long as life was desirable.
	After dinner when the guests had re-
turned to the lighted parlors, the piano was
opened and Miss Lizzie Fulsom, a
daughter of Brother Fulsom’s, accompanied
his granddaughter, Miss Wallace, while
she sang very sweetly the old song, “The
Memories of the Past,” which was a pleas-
ing feature of the evening.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells read a poem written
for the occasion, which contained a sort of
recital of incidents in the life of the aged
veteran and the wife of his youth, who has
been dead many years. Brother Fulsom
responded to the poem in a few appropriate
remarks, expressing his great pleasure in
meeting so many dear friends and receiving
such fervent congratulations.
	Brother Fulsom was born in Portsmouth,

[Column 2]
N.H., March 25, 1815, and his wife (Mrs.
Young’s mother) Zerviah Clark, in West
Suffolk, Conn., in 1818, both of New Eng-
land birth like so many of the early mem-
bers of the Church. They received the
Gospel and were baptized at the same time,
passing through many trials and hardships
together. They gathered with the Saints
here in 1853, and since that time Elder Ful-
som has occupied many positions of trust
and honor. He was the architect of the
Sanpete Temple at Manti, and has been
prominent in planning and building quite a
number of public structures. He is still
able-bodied and is now constantly em-
ployed in the business of inspecting build-
ings, etc. Brother Fulsom has a large
family of sons and daughters and numerous
grandchildren, and is justly proud of his
posterity.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

“Musings and Memories” is a volume of
poems entirely of home production. The
book is sufficiently elegant in appearance
for any drawing room or library table. It
contains three hundred pages and a steel
engraving of the author. It is for sale at
the office of the Woman’s Exponent, Tem-
pleton building, opposite Deseret News
office. Cloth binding, $1.25; dainty cover,
$1.50; morocco, $2.00.
	The Mother’s Congress will meet in
assembly in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall
on Monday and Tuesday, the 10th and 11th
of April, commencing on Monday at 2 p.
m., meeting again at 7:30 p. m., evening
session, and at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. and
again on Tuesday evening, in all five ses-
sions. It will be very educational, many
good speakers are expected besides residents,
Prof. Geo. H. Brimhall of the Brigham
Young Academy, Susa Young Gates, who
will speak of Hawaiian mothers, and Helen
Campbell, the famous economist and author,
whose books and lectures on relative topics,
such as organized labor, the Consumer’s
League, Woman’s Protective Association,
etc., are considered among the best of our
time.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS.

UTAH STATE SOCIETY D. AND R.

Daughters of the Revolution:
	Trusting, ladies, that you will believe
that I fully appreciate the honor you have
conferred upon me in electing me State
Regent of the Utah Society Daughters of
the Revolution—let me assure you of my
devotion to our State, to the country, its
institutions and its welfare present and
future, and promise in so far as I am capable
with your help to maintain the dignity of
this society as a part of our fair common-
wealth, and hope and believe that in good
faith all who have united in this society
will share the responsibility which devolves
upon us all in this new organization, of
making it a success a sa part of the General
Society, and a credit to our own State for
whose honor and fair name we are all so
justly ambitious.
	Although we are proud of our noble
ancestry and the spirit of ’76 and our heri-
tage of revolutionary fame in the past, we
must also look to the future and seek to
foster, nourish and cherish in these

[Column 2]
mountain vales the love of country and of
independence, such as we are convinced
our forefathers and foremothers cultivated
in their day and time in the early colonies,
the record of which has been handed down
to us and to which struggle they brought
such unqualified heroism, after having
sacrificed home and native land for liberty.
	This intermountain region is spontan-
eously bursting with the spirit of freedom;
its physical characteristics bear proof of the
assertion. The mountains sublimely grand
in majesty are symbols of integrity, courage
and solidity. Towers of strength indicat-
ing power and might; naturally the chil-
dren born here, as all of this society were
save only your Regent, must inhale this 
spirit which pervades the land.
	The very air we breathe is redolent of
freedom. For this precious gift let us
offer a tribute of praise from the altar of our
hearts to the God of liberty. We can
scarcely be too ardent in our enthusiasm
concerning this goodly land, these beauti-
ful vales in the desert where a band of
weary Pilgrims found rest and peace after a
long and toilsome journey across the bleak
and desolate plains, having been wanderers 
like the children of Israel for an indefinite
period because of their religious faith, and
like their illustrious forefathers, the found-
ers of the colonies on the Atlantic shore
who left their native homes and country
and crossed the mighty ocean, enduring
untold hardships almost too appalling for
repetition because of persecution for their
religion; and yet some of their descendants
at a later date were forced to come hither,
traversing untrodden desert ways, and fin-
ally made their resting place by America’s
Great Dead Sea. An over-ruling Provi-
dence guided the pilgrims of New England
across the mighty deep, and the pioneers of
Utah to this valley, toward the Pacific
slope and the setting sun.
	We must teach our children such lessons
of patriotism and love of humanity and of
religious liberty, that they will never incline
to deeds of disloyalty, nor consent to the
persecution of any denomination or people
of whatever belief or unbelief, Christian,
Jew, Mohammedan or Infidel.
	Teach the children the songs of their
fathers and their mothers. “Sing aloud,
Old Songs the precious music of the heart."

“Teach them your children round the hearth
When evening fires burn clear;
And in the fields of harvest mirth,
And on the hills of deer. 
So shall each unforgotten word 
When far their loved ones roam,
Call back the hearts which once it stirred
To childhood’s holy home.”  
	* * *
“The songs that thro’ the valleys green
Sent on from age to age;
Like his own river’s voice have been
The peasant’s heritage.”

	It is rather remarkable that just a short
period previous to the recent war with
Spain the women of this nation should
have been impressed to band themselves to-
gether in patriotic societies throughout the
United States, arousing the spirit of patriot-
ism in communities and striving to learn
the unwritten history of the greater activity
of patriotic valor, and searching deep into
the genealogy of the past to establish indi-
vidual claims of direct lineage, whereby
they might link themselves to the fathers
and forefathers who preceded them, and
secure perfect recognition of inherited right


[Column 1]
SACRAMENTO BRANCH.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	Some time has elapsed since you have
heard from the Relief Society of Sacramen-
to, yet we have been mindful of you and
the Relief Society throughout Utah, especi-
al mention being made in our prayers fo.
Sister Zina D. H. Young and her counselorsr
	Nothing has occurred of enough interest
to communicate, and our work is slow, yet
we have kept on cheerfully and earnestly,
trusting in the promise that, “where two or
three are met together in my name, there
am I in their midst, and that to bless.”
Experience has taught us that we always
receive more than we ask for. Since the
organization of our society we have been
but few members; true our branch and
society have increased, but the people here
have removed to Utah or Idaho as soon as
circumstances permitted, therefore there
would not until lately be over six sisters
present at a meeting, and owing to the
distance of residence and the circumstances
of the sisters, we thought best to discon-
tinue our Tuesday meeting, and hold but
one a month. That one has been well at-
tended, the sisters bearing strong testimon-
ies to the truth of the work and of the
goodness of God. A few weeks ago we
decided to resume our weekly meetings,
the members having increased and each one
having a zeal for work whereby they might
help roll on the Lord’s work and obtain
great blessings. Three meetings are held
at the home of Sister Fanny Thackham,
the fourth, a testimony meeting, at the
home of one of the aged or sick sisters who
is not privileged to be with us from time to
time, that they may be strengthened and
built up by the testimonies, or comfort we
may be able to give them.
	Last year two quilts made by the sisters
netted the neat sum of eight dollars. Gar-
ments and fancy work are now being
manufactured to be disposed of later on in
a manner not yet decided upon.
	On Saturday 11th inst., the Elders went
among the Saints imparting tidings they
knew would bring joy to every heart,
Apostle and Sister Richards and President
Nye would be with us next day. Can you
dear ones over there who have these privil-
eges so common among you, realize what
it is to us to behold the face of a prophet
or apostle of the Lord? To us who have
been living in the world, groping amid its
darkness, wandering we know not where,
then called from our danger by the clear,
sweet tones of the servants of God as they
teach, us the truths of the Gospel as it has
been restored in the last days, bringing us
from danger into safety, from error into
truth, from death into life, from extreme
darkness into the marvelous light of His
love—indeed the capacity of our hearts
seems much too small to hold such a bless
ing, and our tears of joy flow freely.
	Our esteemed guests were present at
Sunday School. President Nye made a
few remarks to the school. President Rich-
ards followed, speaking more particularly
to the older ones, encouraging them in
Sunday School work. Sister Richards ad-
dressed the children about ten minutes,
telling some of her early experiences and
how they did in the schools in Utah. She
won each little heart and proved herself the
childrens’ friend.
	Apostle Richards was the speaker at both
morning and evening service, great interest
being manifested by the many listeners.

[Column 2]
The discourse was on the early history of
the Church and the Apostle’s personal
knowledge of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and he stated that in the beginning of the
Church he was the youngest apostle and
had lived to be the oldest. The encourage-
ment to Saints and messages of love from
the scriptures to sinners, could only fall
from lips used to communicate with the
Lord. His face fairly radiated the light he
had received, and I felt it good to sit and
listen, and was reminded of the 2nd Ephes-
sins, 6th verse, “Hath called us together
to sit together in heavenly places in Christ
Jesus.”
	At 3 p. m. the Relief Society met with
the Elders at the request of Sister Richards
at the home of Sister Eliza Smith. We
had a glorious meeting, the Holy Spirit
was present with us. President Nye,
Apostle Richards and Sister Richards gave
us much valuable and needed instruction,
and we shall endeavor to reach the standard
raised for us that day and profit by the
things learned, never forgetting the dear
faces from Zion. At conference President
Bowman said words of praise for our Re-
lief Society, saying we were not behind any
branch in the state.
	President Nye returned from a trip to
Carson and was with us on Friday 17.
There being three vacancies in the Relief
Society a meeting was called and the fol-
lowing officers confirmed: Sister Jane
Rumel, counselor; Sister Sarah Morgan,
assistant secretary; Sister Annie Carson,
teacher. President Nye in his inimitable
style instructed the mothers as to how they
should bring up and watch over the health
of their children and bring them up in the
kingdom of God, and prophecied we would
grow rapidly and be a tower of strength in
California. After prayer Sister Rumel in-
vited Brothers Nye and Bowman to lunch
which they accepted and partook of just in
time for the former to take the train for his
home in San Francisco.
	That the Heavenly Father will bless us
abundantly and make us a power in wisdom,
knowledge and strength for the helping on
of the great work, made glorious through
truth and revelation, is my wish.
	FANNY HENSLEY THACKHAM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

WAYNE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Wayne
Stake was held at Loa, January 31, 1899.
The presidency of the Stake Relief Society
and a number of brethren were present and
an excellent spirit prevailed.
	The Loa choir sang “Come O, Thou
King of Kings.” Prayer, Bishop W. E.
Hanks. Singing, “Let us pray.”
	President Jane S. Coleman presiding,
spoke upon the magnitude of the work we
are engaged in, said much could be accom-
plished by the Relief Society when they
were active in their labors. She had re-
ceived reports from the local presidents,
showing satisfactory results with regard to
gathering up grain for storing. Read the
statistical and financial report for the year
past, and said our average should be higher.

[Column 2]
We ought to sustain our local presidents
with our presence at meetings, by so doing
union would increase and kind feelings also.
Said Relief Society members should lead
out in good works, should be teachers and
preachers of righteousness. Spoke upon
mothers training their children in a proper
way.
	President Margaret Taylor reported the
Loa Relief Society in good condition, bore
testimony, and expressed a desire to have
the Bishopric visit their meetings.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe said she felt
well and was much pleased to have the 
presidency and brethren attend our confer-
ence and sustain us in our labors. Spoke
of teaching our children more by example
than precept, to teach virtue and not to
leave our sons and daughters subject to
temptation. Spoke of attending our meetings
and sustaining the society work.
	Sister Adalaide M. Adams reported the
Teasdale Relief Society as doing well.
	President Martha Adams reported the
Torrey Relief Society in good running
order. It had lately been organized and all
felt well. 
	Sister Louisa Brown spoke of the society
in early days and of the progress and
growth it had made, also of the opportun-
ities that lay before the young people. En-
couraged mothers to do their duty and be
very careful in their examples before the
young people.
	Sister Sarah A. Robison said she had en-
joyed the conference. Encouraged the sis-
ters to read and study good books and be-
come wise in the principles of the Gospel.
	Sister Leah Blackburn spoke of the bless-
ings that awaited the faithful. Encouraged
the young sisters to be good, true workers
and shun evil at all times. Felt thankful
that the mothers of Zion were worthy of
raising sons who were worthy to bear the
Gospel to the nations of the world.
	Sister Margaret Pace bore testimony to
the truth of the Gospel and spoke of the
fulfillment of prophecy.
	President Sarah G. Meeks reported the
Thurber society in good condition. They
lacked only a few dollars of settling up
their indebtedness on their hall, (which is a
very creditable building for so small a
society.) She said they were united and de-
sired to be progressive in the good
work.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn felt well in the
calling that rested upon her. Spoke of the
blessings the sisters would gain by storing
grain. Encouraged the young people to be
faithful in every calling.
	Sister Elizabeth Jeffry felt very thankful
for the good spirit we had enjoyed, and felt
to ask the Lord to bless every worker in
the society. Felt to sustain those in office
with all her heart.
	President J. S. Coleman was pleased to
listen to the remarks and reports. Called
the attention of the sisters to the ten cent
donation to help defray the expenses of
the General Board in Relief Society work.
Spoke of fasting and prayer in behalf of the
sick among us, and said to observe punctu-
ality in attendance at our meetings.
	President W. E. Robinson felt to appre-
ciate the good words of the sisters, would
ask the Bishops to visit the society and be-
come an aid to them. Encouraged the sis-
ters in the good work they had espoused.
	Closed by singing “Great is the Lord.”
Benediction by President H. M. Hansen.
				A. M. ADAMS, Sec.


when the Jaredite nation, save one man, be-
came extinct.
	How solitary and lonely he must have
felt, alone on a great continent! No home,
no friends! Can we contemplate anything
so awful! How long he wandered to and
fro we know not, but at last he reached
the southern portion of the North American
continent, thousands of miles from his form-
er home, and to the great astonishment of
both, he found the people of Mulek, who
had been led from Jerusalem by the hand
of the Lord about eleven years after Lehi.
With them he spent nine moons, when he
too, passed away to the world of spirits.
	Thus ended one of the mightiest nations,
who, as long as they kept the command-
ments of God, flourished, but when they be-
came wicked and corrupt, fell into decay
and finally destroyed each other in civil war.
Men and women fared alike. The last bat-
tle was fought as near as can be gleaned
from the records, 590 B. C.
	When Ether had completed his records
he hid the twenty-four golden plates on
which they were engraved in the place
where they were afterwards found by the
people of King Limbi, when they were
searching for the land of Zarahemla. The
plates were afterwards carried by the
Nephites to Zarahemla, and were translated
by the king and prophet, Mosiah II.
	From that time they were handed down
from one generation to another with other
sacred and holy records and things, until
Moroni: the last great Nephite prophet and
general made an abridgement of them, and
they were deposited with others of a like
character in the Hill Cumorah. There they
lay concealed for centuries until they were
delivered into the hands of the boy
prophet, Joseph Smith of the 19th century.
On the 22nd of September, 1827, were
placed in his hands by the Angel Moroni,
the plates from which the Book of Mormon
was translated, also the Urum and Thum-
mim.
					E. H. LYON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


For the “Exponent.”
A SKETCH OF THE JAREDITES.

	In the days of Shiblon, because of the
iniquity of the people, many prophets ap-
peared and foretold the woes that would
mark the extinction of the race. Civil wars
and robber bands did their part; famine and
pestilence followed. Finally the king was
slain and his son Seth taken into captivity.
Seth was the next rightful heir to the
throne, but he was kept in captivity the
rest of his life.
	Ahab, the son of Seth, was the next
monarch. He was a wicked king, but his
reign was brief. His son Etham succeeded
him.
	In Etham’s days many prophets came
again to raise their warning voices. They
prophesied of the destruction that would
surely come upon the wicked if they did
not turn from their iniquity, but they heed-
ed not the words of the heaven inspired
messengers, and they withdrew from
among them. When Etham died his son
Moron succeeded the throne.
	Moron, like his father Etham, was a
most wicked king. During his reign the
robber bands which at that time flourished
among the people, led a rebellion amongst
the people and wrested from him his king-
dom, but after many years he succeeded in
defeating them and regained possession of
his kingdom. He was again defeated and
carried into captivity.
	Coriantor was the son of Moron, and was
held in captivity all his life. This was a
period of sin and war. He was the father
of the Prophet Ether. Ether was the last
great prophet of the Jaredites, to whom we
are indebted for the history of that race,
that once mighty nation.
	In the days of Coriantumr, the last of the
Jaredite kings, the Prophet Ether raised
his warning voice, but all his words were
rejected by that fast decaying nation. They
cast him out from their midst, and he spent
his days in a mountain cave. While he
was thus hiding he wrote the history of his
times and people. These were troublous
times indeed for the war which commenced
in the first year of Ether’s concealment
lasted until the nation was destroyed, men
and women fighting with the same intense
hate.
	In the second year of the war Ether
again appeared among the people and de-
clared if they repented not they should all
be slain except Coriantumr. They were
angry with him and sought to take his life,
so he again retired to his place of conceal-
ment. 
	In the third year Shared, a leader of the
revolutionists, defeated Coriantumr, and
held him a prisoner. In the fourth year
the sons of Coriantumr released their father
and placed him again on the throne. 
	At last the vast armies of Coriantumr
and Shared met in the valley of Gelgal and
fought for three days, the king was victor-
ous. One battle followed another, year
after year, millions fell before the last ter-
rible struggle ended, when Coriantumr
stood alone, the sole representative of his
race, the last and final battle being fought
near the hill Ramah, (Cumorah, N. Y.)


[Column 1]
to the children yet unborn along this
heroic line of ancestry.
	Yet so it was, and doubtless there is an
underlying purpose in this; and these 
societies are becoming more and more
numerous and their influence and strength
will correspondingly increase. They are
not, as has been said, “mutual admiration
societies,” nor are they for tea and gossip,
but for closer, fellowship and active service
along the lines of higher views, of united
patriotic efforts for the larger freedom and 
comradeship of all mankind.
	In our work we must strive to give
some object lessons as well as history and
legends for the children, who are only par-
tially acquainted with the facts pertaining
to the establishment of the independence of
our country, or we shall fail in the pur-
poses we expect to achieve. Assuredly it
is the conscientious desire of every woman
in the society (and let us believe it will be
of all who will hereafter become members)
to so engraft the principles of freedom and
right in the souls of the children of these
mountain vales, and stamp upon their lives
and character such lessons in childhood and
youth that no storms upon the voyage of
life, or clamor of heresy, or wars of people
shall ever destroy or uproot the principles 
thus wrought into their souls; but that they
may be transmitted to their posterity unto
the latest generation that may inhabit this 
chosen land of America.
	Without going into details allow me to
state that in my opinion we should collect
from time to time, as we have opportunity,
specimens of workmanship or heirlooms
that may help us to appreciate the past, and
give us better ideas of those primitive times
when the life of the people was more sim-
ple and the great inventions of this age had
not yet become a part of the newer civiliza-
tion. We are not privileged in this respect
as those are in the older states, who are up-
on the stamping ground of the great his-
toric battles; and many relics of that valiant
age are handed down in the old Colonial
families, or collected and preserved in 
museums and such like places for the bene-
fit of the public. From these scenes and
associations we in this Western land are far
removed geographically, but we may ob-
tain from relatives and friends some of these
precious mementoes.
	If we cannot surround ourselves with
such object lessons there is active work we
can do in other directions, which will open 
up to us undoubtedly, and meantime we
can become more familiar with the past his-
tory of our own country by lectures, study
and discussion in our society, and acquaint-
ing ourselves with biographies of the men
and women who figured conspicuously in
affairs of this nation and its struggle for
independence.
	The Declaration of Independence itself is
a subject for study, probably we do not re-
member even the names of the signers of
that sacred instrument of progress in the
world’s history.
	As women we cannot be too grateful
and reverent to the memory of such women
as Abagail Adams, of revolutionary dis-
tinction, who so long ago when woman’s
legal rights had not been even agitated as a
part of civilization, urged her husband in
the most emphatic language to accord to
women justice in the establishing of the new
government. She was the first American
woman who thus protested against the in-
equality of sex in political matters. Writ-
ing to her husband in March 1776, who

[Column 2]
was then in the Continental Congress, she
said: “I long to hear you have declared an
independency, and by the way in the new
code of laws, which I suppose it will be
necessary for you to make, I desire you
would remember the ladies, and be more
generous to them than your ancestors have
been.” Her language on this subject both
in conversation with the men of her time
and in her letters to correspondents was
strong, and her opposition to the old laws
so determined that she even threatened to
foment rebellion unless the rights of her sex
were secured, and declared women would
not hold themselves bound to obey any
laws in which they had no voice or repre-
sentation.
	It is due to the moral courage of such
women and those of the 19th century with 
whose names we are more familiar, and to
the generous spirit of the men of this West-
ern country that we are privileged to enjoy
political equality. With this advantage
we should be better equipped for the work
along this line, and make ourselves and
this society a power in the political economy
of the State and as a part of the great
body politic throughout the United States,
not forgetting those of our sex deprived of
the ballot who are anxiously looking to us
to help them along these lines of political
liberty and direct representation in the
government.
	May it be our privilege to render noble
service whenever and wherever opportunity
is given, and be ready at all times to stand
by the Constitution of our country, uphold
its laws and honor the flag, and be ready to
defend it from foes within and foes without.
	In conclusion let us pay our tribute of
respect to the General Society of the Daugh-
ters of the Revolution who so generously
extended to Utah the right hand of fellow-
ship, and in the name of the Utah society
through its Regent in her inaugural address
bid them God speed in the magnanimous
work they have so auspiciously under-
taken. And while remembering all its
representatives tender our love especially
to Miss Sarah E. Hunt, its vice president,
who so graciously honored us with her
gentle presence and sweet words of en-
couragement and sympathy, which we shall
never forget during her brief sojourn in
Salt Lake City, the Mecca of the West, in
July 1898.	
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
Regent of Utah Society Daughters of the
	Revolution.
Given at a meeting held January 16 1899.


GONE TO REST.

EMILY BILLINGS STRINGAM.
	It becomes our painful duty to announce
the death of one of our noble sisters of the 
Thurber Relief Society, Wayne Stake of 
Zion, Emily Billings Stringam, wife of 
George W. Stringam, who passed away 
February 16, 1899, from the effects of la
grippe and typhoid fever, aged forty four
years, three months and five days. She 
leaves a sorrowing mother, husband and 
six children to mourn her loss. 
	We have known and loved her many 
years, her life and labors have been of an 
exemplary character. She was a true and 
sincere friend at all times and in all places. 
Her life has been a noble example from her 
childhood until her spirit took its flight to 
higher realms. May her spirit rest in peace 
until the resurrection morn. She has gone
to meet those who have gone before. She 
endeared herself to a host of friends who 
were greatly attached to her. She has been 
a member of the Thurber Relief Society
ever since its first organization and a teach-
er in the same, one among the first to pay


any donation that was called for. Oh, how
we shall miss her in our society!
		SARAH G. MEEKS, Pres.
		MARY A. GARDNER, Asst. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A new literary star is being brought to
the attention of the reading world through
the pages of the Woman’s Home Compan-
ion—a clever Japanese girl, Miss Onoto
Watanna, who writes bright stories depict-
ing phases of American and English life in
Japan.
	Mrs. Hetty Green, who is said to be the
richest woman in America, is so pursued
by beggars that she conceals her address
from the public, and her doorplate bears
the inscription, “C. Dewey.” This is the
name of her daughter’s little dog. Com-
modore Dewey, born on the day of the
battle of Manila. “This little terrier sim-
ply runs this whole household,” Mrs
Green said the other day to a reporter for
the New Voice. “We live with him—not
he with us.”


[Column 1]
REORGANIZE THE RED CROSS.

	Plans are now afoot to reorganize the
National Red Cross Society. The reorgan-
ization is being considered by a committee.
	Primarily it is intended to establish per-
manent headquarters of the National Red
Cross Society in Washington. The pro-
posed plan contemplates the erection of a
building at Washington to be devoted
solely to the uses of the society.
	The chief officers of the society are to be
a president, vice president and chief of staff.
The duties of the latter official will be that
of a general manager, who will exercise a
general control of the work of the society
throughout the country, subject to the
authority of Miss Barton as president and
the board of directors.
	In the United States the country will be
divided into departments, which geographi-
cally will correspond to the military de-
partments as they now exist. Each de-
partment will be administered by a chief,
who will have control of the territory under
his charge, and who will in return be re-
sponsible to the executive committee of the
board of directors. It will be the duty of
each chief to so organize his department
that local Red Cross societies will be
established in the cities and towns within
his jurisdiction. These societies will be re-
sponsible to him.

[Column 2]
MASSACHUSETTS DEBATE ON
POLGAMY.

	A resolution against the admission of
Congressman Roberts of Utah, was adopted
on Monday, March 20, by the Massachusetts
House of Representatives after a sharp de-
bate.
	Mr. Tolman, of Pittsfield, opposed the
resolution against the admission of Brigham
H. Roberts of Utah to a seat in the 56th
Congress. He said it was none of the
business of the Legislature. Neither Utah
nor Massachusetts Congressmen had asked
the Legislature to act. He hoped it would
be killed.
	Mr. Salter, of Lynn, for the committee
reporting the resolve, said this was a moral
question. The committee was unanimous
in support of the resolution.
	Mr. Murphy, of Lawrence, said he had
listened with a good deal of amusement to
the wail of the screech owl from Wachusett.
The question was a pressing one. In New
York this resolution was passed, and so it
was in Kansas. The Mormons had agreed
to quit polygamy, but had not done so.
Roberts had served his time in jail for poly-
gamy.
	Mr. Charles R. Saunders opposed the
resolution. It was no business of the
Legislature to be instructing our Congress-
men. A good policy for the Legislature
was to mind its own business. Utah should
have been kept out of the Union unless she
gave safe guarantee to cease polygamous
acts.
	Mr. Hawes, of Weymouth, said in reply
to Mr. Tolman that there was a committee
on federal relations to consider just such
questions, and it was the business of the
Legislature, if it was fit, to act on national
questions.
	Mr. Davenport, of Greenfield, made a
strong plea for the polygamists. He was
in favor of the broadest freedom in religious
matters, quoting the Constitution. He said
there was a wise man in the Bible who be-
lieved in polygamy. He could not say that
there was anything in polygamy that was
immoral.
	Mr. Salter, of Lynn, said three-fourths of
the members would be glad if the resolution
had not been brought in, but he thought
they would not care to vote against morality.
	Mr. Douglass, of Boston, said this motion
was a Christian motion. If carried out,
polygamy would break up the foundations
of society. He was for the resolution and
Christian morality.
	The resolution was adopted, 68 to 59.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier 
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

NOTICE.

	To complete my volumes of the Woman’s
Exponent I lack the following numbers:
Volume VII., No. 3, July 1, 1878; Volume
XI., No. 16, January 15, 1873; Volume XIII.,
Nos. 1 and 2, June 1 and 15, 1884; Vol-
ume XVI., No. 20, March 15, 1888; also
April 1, 1892, and October 1, 1895.
	To any one willing to part with them I
will pay ten cents a paper, but please com-
municate by letter or card before sending
papers. Address
			ROMANINA B. PRATT,
Room 226 Constitution Bldg., S. L. City.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.

TIME TABLE IN EFFECT MARCH 19, 1899.
ARRIVE.
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis, Kansas City
	and Denver.......................................................... 3:30 a.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley, Portland, Butte and San
	Francisco.............................................................. 8:55 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha and Denver 3:03 p.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley and San Francisco........... 7:20 p.m.
**From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete and intermediate 
	points................................................................... 9:35 a.m.
From Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points............. 6:30 p.m.
*From Tooele and Terminus....................................... 6:00 p.m.
DEPART.
For Ogden, Park City, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, Kan-
	sas City and St. Louis......................................... 7:00 a.m.
For Ogden, Cache Valley and intermediate points..... 8:00 a.m.
**For Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points............ 7:30 a.m.
For Ogden, Denver, St. Louis, Chicago, San Francisco 6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Portland, San Francisco................ 9:45 a.m.
**For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and Frisco................. 5:30 p.m.
*For Tooele and Terminus.......................................... 7:45 a.m.
	**Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays
	*Daily except Sunday.

City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall,
Second South Street.
S. W. ECCLES,			D E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager.		Gen. P. and T. Agent.
			W. H. BANCROFT.
		Vice President and Gen’l Manager.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1899.		NO. 22.


CONTENTS. 
	A Brief Sketch - C. Y. C. Anniversary Cele-
brations. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s Graduates—Emily
G. Cluff. At Chesterfield—Alzina Thompson.
Another Relief Society—Margaret Budge, Sec. 
Reaper’s Club Notes—Julia A. Druce, Sec. Items
from Mexico–Sarah A. Clayson. A Word of Ad-
vice—Rebecca O. Allen. Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting—J S. Woolley, Sec. Proclamation. In 
Memoriam. The Cliff Dwel[-]ers—Luella M.
Rhodes.
	EDITORIAL:—Conferences and Meetings. Ed-
itorial Notes
	POETRY:—For the Old Folks Party at Croyden,
March 17, 1899—Augusta Toone. The Ladies!
God Bless Them—Robert Grant.


FOR THE OLD FOLKS’ PARTY AT CROY-
DEN, MARCH 17, 1899.

Our lives are a wearisome journey,
	We are sick from the dust and the heat,
The rays of the sun beat upon us,
	The briers are wounding our feet;
But the city to which we are journeying
	Will more than our trials repay,
Then the toils of the road will be nothing,
	When we get to the end of the way.
There’s so many hills to climb upwards,
	Oft times we are longing for rest,
But the Lord who appointed our pathway,
	Knows just what is needful and best.
In His word we know He has promised
	Our strength shall be as our day,
And the toils of the road will be nothing,
	When we get to the end of the way.
He loves us too well to forsake us,
	Or give us one trial too much,
All His people must bear persecution,
	But Satan can never claim such.
By and by we shall see Him and hear Him,
	In the City of Enoch’s fair day;
Then the toils of the road will be nothing,
	When we get to the end of the way.
When the last feeble step has been taken,
	And the gates of the City appear,
When the beautiful songs of the angels,
	Float out on our listening ear,
Then all that now seems so mysterious
	Will be plain, and as clear as the day,
All the toils of the road will seem nothing,
	When we get to the end of the way.
Cooling fountains there’ll be for the thirsty
	There are cordials for those who are faint,
There are robes that are purer and whiter,
	Than ever the fancy can paint.
Then we’ll try and press hopefully onward,
	Drawing nearer on each weary day,
And the toils of the road will seem nothing,
	When we get to the end of the way.
					AUGUSTA TOONE.


[Column 1]
BRIEF SKETCH.

LEONORA CANNON TAYLOR.
	In the little antiquated town of Peel on
the Isle of Man, there was born near the
close of last century a girl who was des-
tined to be the means of bringing salvation
to many souls of her father’s household,
and to herself occupy a somewhat conspicu-
ous station in the new dispensation about to
be ushered in by the Lord. Her name was
Leonora Callister Cannon, the daughter of
Capt. George Cannon and Leonora Callister

[Column 2]
Cannon. Both her parents belonged to old
and well connected families, and there was
scarcely a portion of the island in which
their kinsfolk might not be found.
	She received the advantages of a good,
sound education and was greatly beloved
by all her relatives and acquaintances.
From early childhood she showed strong
traits of character, and early in life her at-
tention was directed towards religion. In
whatsoever society she was placed, her in-
fluence was always used to impress her
associates with the advantages and pleasures
of serving the Lord. After she grew up
she spent a great deal of time in London
with friends of her parents, and though she
moved in fashionable society, she always
carried with her this lofty piety and this
influence in favor of the Lord’s service,
never being diverted in the least degree
from attending to those duties which she
felt were incumbent upon her as a child of
God.
	Among her friends was a young lady
who became engaged to a Colonel Bacon
of the British army. This officer had been
appointed secretary to the Governor Gener-
al of Canada, and the marriage occurred on
the eve of his departure for that country.
His journey to his new station was to be
his wedding tour, and it was arranged that
Miss Cannon should accompany her friend
and the latter’s husband upon this journey.
	After remaining in Canada a short time,
Miss Cannon made preparations to return
to England. Meantime, being a methodist,
she became acquainted with John Taylor, a
young preacher in that denomination. He
was greatly attracted by her, and shortly
afterwards made a proposal of marriage.
She was intent upon returning to her home,
however, and declined his offer; but a dream
which she subsequently had, in which it
was made manifest to her that she ought to
marry him, changed all her feelings, and
when he renewed his proposals she accepted
him.
	Both being very devout people, they
read the scriptures diligently, and it soon
became apparent to them that there were
powers and gifts which had been enjoyed
by the ancient Saints that were not possessed
by the church to which they belonged.
Among their acquaintances were others of
the same way of thinking, and they met to-
gether often to study the scriptures, seek-
ing earnestly for that measure of satisfac-
tion which they felt was still denied them.
	While their minds were thus exercised
Parley P. Pratt, an Apostle of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, came
to Toronto. They made his acquaintance.
Mrs. Taylor readily received the doctrines
of the Church and accepted the testimony
borne by Elder Pratt. Her husband was
more cautious, but after a time his doubts
were removed also, and they both embraced
the Gospel, and thus separated themselves
from their former friends and acquaintances.
	I need not dwell upon the particulars of
the visit of the Prophet Joseph Smith and
Sidney Rigdon, or of Elder Taylor’s visit to
Kirtland, or of the fatigues and hardships
of the journey to Missouri, which she shared

[Column 3]
with her husband, during which toilsome
journey one of her children was born; nor
need I dwell upon all the sufferings which
they endured in common with the Saints
in their expulsion from Missouri. I need
only say that in all these trials she displayed
a most heroic faith and was a constant com-
fort and help to her husband, strengthening
his hands and giving him every encourage-
ment which affection could suggest in the
trying scenes through which he had to pass.
When he was called with the rest of the
Twelve to take a mission to England, she
was left in the barracks in Montrose, where
with her little children, she struggled with
the difficulties and hardships and privations
and poverty that were the lot of all the
Saints at that time, and particularly of the
families of the Twelve.
	After his return, it was Elder Taylor’s
fortune to be with the Prophet Joseph at
the time when he surrendered himself to
his enemies at Carthage. You all know
the history of that dreadful occurrence.
Those were times that tried the souls of
men and women. The Prophet and Patri-
arch were killed, and Elder Taylor was 
shot in several places. Bringing him from
Carthage to Nauvoo in his wounded con.
dition and in the intense heat of that trying
summer seemed to promise but one result,
and that was his death. His devoted wife
visited Carthage as soon as she heard of the
massacre, and tenderly nursed and cared
for him while there and on the road back.
With unfaltering devotion and the utmost
solicitude she did everything in the power
of mortal to nurse him back to life and
health, and exhibited in all those trying
scenes the strength of character for which
she was already noted.
	The journey across the plains and the
endurance of the trials and difficulties of
the early settlement of this valley, (of which
she was one of the pioneers of 1847), again
brought out these admirable qualities which
she possessed in the most striking degree.
She had her trials as all her sisters of those
days had who were prominent and whose
husbands obeyed the commands of the
Lord; but during all this her faith never
wavered. Tried as she might be, she al-
ways testified that she knew that this was
the work of God, that Joseph was a prophet
of God, and that all that had been revealed
through him was divine. No one who
ever associated with her, no matter how
intimately, ever heard a word from her ex-
pressive of the least doubt concerning the
divinity of this work. And thus she lived,
carrying with her always in her association
with relatives and friends the good spirit
which prompted her to embrace the Gospel
when she heard it from the lips of a servant
of God.
	Her memory is deeply cherished by her
kindred, for they look upon her as an in-
strument in the hands of God of bringing
salvation to them. They are already a
host in the mountains of Zion, and they
thank the Lord for having inspired Leonora
Cannon Taylor to take the course which
has resulted so happily for them.
						C. Y. C.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATIONS.

WOOD RIVER, IDAHO.
	The people of Little Wood River, Idaho,
(Bishop Harris’ ward) had a very pleasant
reunion on March 17th, to celebrate the
organization of the Relief Society.
	Meeting opened with prayer by Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard, counselor. Address of
welcome was given by Relief Society
president, Mrs. Annie Pettigrew.
	The Bishop and others in the ward
helped to make this entertainment a success.
The program consisted of songs, recitations,
music, readings, speeches, etc. A bounti-
ful repast was served to those present.
	After an enjoyable time the company was
dismissed with prayer by Mrs. Mary S.
Phippen, counselor.
	A party for the children was given the
next day.
				AMANDA M. GUIVER.
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION IN ENGLAND.
	The sisters of this (the Nottingham, Eng-
land) Relief Society, held in honor the
anniversary of the organization of the same,
on Monday night, March 20, 1899, at
the president’s, Sister Hanson’s, house.
	The society was well represented, there
were eleven of the sisters present, Elders,
President Geo. Ruff, Joshua Coombs and
Alfred L. Cole, also several of the sisters’
husbands were present.
	Supper commenced at 8 p. m., and we
all partook heartily of the good things
spread before us. After supper there were
songs and recitations, also speeches given
by the sisters. The Elders also spoke to us
and gave us some very good advice, and
encouraged us in the work in which we are
engaged, for they knew it to be a noble
work. The young sisters present were
especially requested to be obedient to their
parents, and to have charity one towards
another and to be in love and unity with
all the Saints, for where there is union
there is strength. The meeting was then
brought to a close by singing the hymn “O
my Father.” The benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder Joshua Coombs.
				EDITH CABLE, Sec.
MARCH 17TH, AT AFTON, WYOMING.
	Fifty seven years ago today our beloved
prophet, Joseph Smith, organized a society
known as the Relief Society, to relieve the
sick, care for the poor and comfort those
who mourn. At that time though few in
number they were a sturdy band of sisters,
and have since continued to grow.
	Today we meet to celebrate the anniver-
sary of that day and to speak of those who
were thus engaged, for in our hearts there
burns a fire which will never be quenched,
a reverence for the Pioneers which will
never cease.
	At 10 o’clock began our exercises. Opened
by a beautiful speech by our amiable
president, Harriet Cazier, on the organiza-
tion, followed by a lecture on Health
by Stake President Kittie E. Dixon, also a
speech on Woman’s Rights by Counselor
Mary Gardner, and the beautiful song,
“Mother I have heard Sweet Music,” by
the Hurd sisters, and many other beauti-
ful songs, music, speeches, dialogues and
readings. Much praise must be given the
young sisters for the ability shown by them
in preparing a luxurious feast ready for
those present to partake of at the close of

[Column 2]
the morning’s exercises, after which the
remainder of the program was rendered.
	The Stake Presidency, George Osmond,
Wm. W. Burton and Patriarch C. D. Cazi-
er, with their smiling faces showed they
were pleased to be in such good society.
	At night in the Opera House was given a
grand ball. Young and old met and
tripped the light fantastic toe until the wee
small hours of the morn.
	It is such events as these that make the
sisters who toil for the good of others feel
that life is worth living, and make them
glad they have lived.
			ANNIEBELLE HILL, Sec.
MARCH 17TH AT FREEDOM.
	A little space in your valuable paper will
suffice to tell of our Relief Society and its
earnest workers. Our village is small,
having but about twenty families, and we
know how to appreciate our meetings.
	A little over a year ago President Mary
A. Hyde, with others of our good sisters
visited us and organized our society, with
Sister Fanny F. Brown, president; Sisters
Florence Lowry and Nellie Draper, coun-
selors; Sister Elnora H. Taylor, secretary.
Having no Y. L. M. I. A. our young ladies
were asked to take part and help at all
times, which they have willingly done.
	Our meetings are held every two weeks,
with a fairly good attendance under try-
ing conditions, such as bad weather and
living at distances from our place of gather-
ing. The teachers meet with great success,
and liberal donations are given in. We
have finished one quilt and sold it, which
brought us something over five dollars.
Since our organization we have been visited
once by Sister A. L. Cox of Manti, and one
of her aids.
	On the 17th of March we celebrated, the
organization of the society by Joseph
Smith in 1842. Meeting was called to or-
der by President Fanny F. Brown. Sing-
ing. “Gladly meeting,” after which Broth-
er Wm. Lowry, our Bishop’s counselor,
offered prayer. Singing, “Love at Home.”
	A splendid program was rendered in the
way of speeches, songs, instrumental music
and readings.
	The most important feature of the pro-
gram was a reading by Sister Hannah
Crompton, who is now in her 84th year
and who read in such a clear and distinct
voice that every one in the house was able
to catch every word. After the program
was ended came our bounteous spread, 
which was enjoyed by all.
		Your sister in the Gospel 
					MINNIE TAYLOR.

NINETEENTH WARD ANNIVERSARY.
	The 17th day of March will ever be a
memorable one in the history of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. More
especially so to the sisters, because on this
date fifty seven years ago President Joseph
Smith organized this great Relief
Society, which has become so important a
factor through all the Stakes and branches
of the Church, in relieving the wants of the
poor and needy, and in administering com-
fort and solace to the sick and afflicted.
	With the annual recurrence of the day
will return the commemoration of the or-
ganization by the gathering of the ladies in
the various places of worship, to celebrate in
the most fitting manner the inception of the
first, if not the greatest auxiliary help in
the government of the Church. What en-

[Column 3]
thusiastic joy must fill the soul of every
true and zealous woman in the Church
when she contemplates that from one small
society organized in Nauvoo, March 17th,
1842, there has grown to be one or more in
every ward of forty Stakes of Zion, and in
nearly every branch of the Church that has
been organized. It can truthfully be said
that the Relief Society development cor-
responds with the growth of the Church as
a whole, or with any of its institutions,
and has become a potent factor for good
wherever the Church has an organization.
	This day, March 17, 1899, we are happy
to report, was fittingly observed by the Re-
lief Society of the 19th ward. The sisters
of the ward were in attendance, and in ad-
dition we were favored with the presence of
Apostle M. F. Cowley, Bishop Barton and
counselors, and Brother Wm. Neal and
wife, who have recently returned from a
mission to Germany.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Ann E. Neal made appropriate re-
marks. Sister Rebecca Asper gave a his-
torical sketch of the organization of the first
Relief Society with Emma Smith, wife of
the Prophet Joseph, as the president. Sis-
ter Hollings gave a recitation entitled “The
King’s Dream.” Sister Prescott read an
essay, giving many choice incidents in the
life of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Sister
Hattie B. Harker gave a select reading en-
titled “Woman’s Mission.” Sister Phelps,
the oldest member of the Relief Society in
the ward, spoke of the grand mission given
the sisters to perform, and the necessity of
having the Spirit of God to assist them.
Sister Lucy B. Young then related in a
pleasing manner her visit to Washington to
attend the National Council of Women.
	Apostle Cowley then addressed the
society, expressing his pleasure at being
present and his unreserved sympathy for
the work and mission assigned to the wo-
men of this Church. He stated that no
class of women in the world moved in so
broad a sphere, and were accomplishing
such a grand mission as were the women of
this Church. Their condition was such as
to make it imperative upon them to under-
stand the principles of the Gospel. Oppor-
tunity was now afforded under certain cir-
cumstances for some of our sisters to per-
form missions abroad. Several had done
so with good effect, their influence being
strongly felt in the removal of prejudice,
and enlightening the minds of both men
and women respecting our religion and social
characteristics. He commended the faith
of the sisters in their efforts to defeat the
anti-Roberts resolution at Washington, and
said that as the effectual, fervent prayer of a
righteous man availeth much, so would the
effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous wo-
man ascend to God. Brother Cowley bore
his testimony to the good work being ac-
complished by the sisters, and invoked the
blessing of the Lord upon them.
	Bishop Barton made some very timely
and fatherly remarks, expressing his
pleasure at being present. He felt to give
the sisters of the ward his hearty support.
	Benediction was pronounced by President
Wm. Neal, after which refreshments were
served and pleasant, social conversation
was engaged in by all present.
			HATTIE B. HARKER, Sec.


The General Society Daughters of the 
Revolution has donated $50.00 to the
Prison Ship Martyrs’ Monument Associ-
ation of the United States.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE LADIES! GOD BLESS THEM.

	[The following verses were given by Robert
Grant recently in response to the toast “The
Ladies” at the dinner of the Tavern Club of Bos-
ton, in honor of those who did service in con-
nection with the Hospital Ship, “Bay State:”]
You ask me to speak in behalf of the ladies
Who shone in our bout with the cohorts of 
	Cadiz!
You ask me to speak on behalf of the nurses,
And with your permission I’ll do it in verses.
“The ladies, God bless them!” the toast never
	varies
From Alaska’s cold snows to the sunny Can-
	aries.
Man fills up his goblet and drains it while
	drinking,
But the sentiment lies in the thought which
	he’s thinking.
Those dear little dolls with their pretty grim-
	aces,
Their kittenish ways and their delicate faces,
Are precious to some because dainty and 
	fearful,
Adorably helpless and readily tearful
The housewives with tact, rather plump and
	good-looking,
Nice amiable souls with a genius for cooking,
Are popular still with the saint and the sin-
	ner,—
When the Chair cries “The Ladies!” man
	thinks of his dinner.
The daughter of Spain with the night in her
	hair,
With the sloe in her eye and an indolent air, 
Entrances her lover who taps at her pane;
Delicious! but where are the navies of Spain?
That new woman is fair no man needs to be
	told,
She has night in her hair, she has tresses of
	gold;
But what makes her precious for you and for
	me
Is the soul which is in her, the soul which is
	free.
Which, bursting the fetters of fashion and
	caste,
Undeterred by tradition and deaf to the past,
Seeks a post in the ranks, claims the right to
	a place
Wherever her presence can succor the race.
Wherever there’s room for sweet patience
	and care,
For love which complains not and courage to
	bear
The stress of life’s battle; albeit to tread,
A hospital ship in the wake of the dead.
Humanity calls; and undaunted she stands,
There is sweat on her brow, there is blood on
	her hands.
Ho! dames with traditions, does this give
	you pain?
Take heed, and remember the navies of Spain!
“The ladies, God bless them!” Long life to
	the toast,
A health to the nurses who served at their
	post
In a hospital ship on a hurricane sea
For the sake of our country, for you and for
	me.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP’S GRADUATES.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s last class in obstet-
rics and nursing held their oral examina-
tion in their teacher’s parlors, March 5.
They passed successfully before the three
invited doctors, and secured Dr. Shipp’s
certificate with the signatures of E. S.
Wright, M. D., H. A. Anderson, M. D.

[Column 2]
and L. W. Snow, M. D. I think it is
known that Sister Ellis R. Shipp is an
M. D. and graduated from Philadelphia.
	Then on April 3 the whole class, eight
in number, passed the written examination
before the State Medical Board of Utah.
They all averaged 80 per cent, and two of
the students, Mrs. Emily G. Cluff and Miss
Olea Shipp, were especially mentioned as
coming through with flying colors, these
two getting 95 per cent, while only 75 per
cent is the required percentage to secure a
diploma.
	Dr Shipp cannot receive too much
eulogy for the good work she is doing and
has done for years in teaching these classes.
The students are scattered all through the
country and do much good in the communi-
ties where they reside, in alleviating suffer-
ing, and what is better, instructing their
patients how to prevent it. In our branch
of medicine prevention is better than cure.
In almost any business mistakes can be
rectified, but in this mistakes may, and
often do, cause the death of either mother
or child, or both.
	Our successes have only caused us
to feel more humble and thankful to our
Heavenly Father, for we realize that He
has given us the ability to understand and
opened the way for us to devote our time
to this gloriously interesting study, and we
still depend upon Him for help in our own
chosen profession.
	After spending so many months in the
home of Dr. Shipp we have learned to love
and appreciate her for her very worth. She
truly has been a most diligent and devoted
teacher, with excellent expression and
ability, thorough and painstaking with her
students.
	I had the privilege of attending the
beautiful course of lectures given by Sister
Hannah Sorenson seven years ago, and it
was what I learned there that gave me a
great desire to learn more, and it is my de-
sire to still continue my studies along with
my practice.
	I shall ever regard my teachers as my
true and valued friends, for they have re-
flected the searchlight of truth upon wo-
man's destiny add lifted the vale of obscuri-
ty from subjects of vital importance to
the women of the Latter-day Saints, who
believe that it is their God-given destiny to
bear children and to rear them in the fear
and admonition of the Lord; and we would
like to sound the note of warning to those
who are in any way, or by any means,
tempted to shirk the responsibility of legiti-
mate motherhood. We are warned and
forewarned by our leading brethren and
sisters against the enormous sins practiced
by many today, and I feel that all good,
Christian women, especially those in our
profession, should use their influence to
check these growing evils.
	Trusting these classes will be sustained.
I remain your sister in all that is for the
benefit of our sisters.
				EMILY G. CLUFF.


[Column 1]
AT CHESTERFIELD.

	In commemoration of the 57th anniver-
sary of the first organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, the
members of the Chesterfield and Hatch
wards met conjointly in the Chesterfield
meeting house at 10 a. m. Everything
was arranged by 12 a. m., and all sat down 
to a bounteous dinner.

[Column 2]
	After all partook of the good things with
which the Lord has blessed us a recess was
taken, and at 2 p. m. meeting was called to
order by President Columbia F. Loveland
of the Chesterfield Relief Society. Opened
by singing “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Prayer by Wm. T. Higginson. Choir
sang “Do what is right.”
	Among the Relief Society ward officers
on the stand there were Prest. Mary A.
Call and First Counselor Sarah M. Call of
the Stake Presidency, also Prest. Christiana
Higginson and Counselors Emma J. Wil
liams and Hannah Hatch of the Hatch
ward, and the Bishopric of both wards.
	President C. F. Loveland said she was
pleased to meet with her brothers and sis-
ters, asked for a portion of the spirit of the
Lord to be with us and said we had met to-
day to carry out the counsel that had been
given to the Relief Society.
	Sister Mary A. Call, President of the
Relief Society of the Stake, said she was
pleased to meet on this occasion and
thought all the sisters ought to take part in
the services, and that it was our duty.
	Counselor Sarah M. Call felt like going
ahead and doing the best she knew how.
	The program was then proceeded with.
First an essay by Prest Christina Higgin-
son, entitled “Woman’s Rights.” Next,
remarks by ex Bishop Call. He was
pleased to be with the sisters on this occa-
sion, There was a mission for the sisters
to perform and there was an object in hav-
ing a Relief Society, that was to help the
poor and needy. The teachers had the 
right to tell the members while going
around to be on their guard and also in-
quire if there were any poor in the ward,
and stated that the Relief Society was a
great help to the Bishops. Told the
men not to be stingy with their wheat if
their wives wanted a peck to give into the
Relief Society.
	Sister Sarah M. Call then read the min-
utes of the first Relief Society meeting that
was ever held in the Church, when it was
organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Then there was a song by Sister Katie
Bevins and company, followed by a few re-
marks by Bishop Tolman. He thought
the brethren would be willing to help their
wives and encourage them in the Relief
Society. 
	Counselor E. J. Williams said she felt to
do her duty and hoped we would all be
united. Next a recitation by Sister Alzina
Thompson, followed by remarks by
Brother Peter Williams of Hatch ward,
who said this was the first time he had
ever had the privilege of attending a Re-
lief Society meeting, but hoped it would
not be the last. Asked the Lord to bless
the president and counselors of the Stake,
also the Relief Society in both of the wards,
and as the Bishop of the Hatch ward he
felt to thank the sisters of the Chesterfield.
	Then there was a song from Mrs. John
Detton and company of Hatch ward, fol-
lowed by a reading by Sister Maggie Hatch
of Hatch ward. Next was an essay by
First Counselor Alice Yandy of Chester-
field ward.
	President C. F. Loveland arose and
thanked the brethren and sisters for their
kind attention, also thanked the committee
for their labors, and the entertainment
closed by the choir singing “Lo the Gen-
tile chain is broken.” Benediction by
Brother Ira Call. 
	COLUMBIA F. LOVELAND, Prest.
	ALZINA THOMPSON, Asst. Secy.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1899.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCES AND MEETINGS.

	The month of April so far has been full
and running over with conferences, con-
gresses, meetings, lectures, entertainments
and so on; and really there is a variety.
	The General Conference opened on 
Thursday morning, April 6, most auspicious-
ly. The weather was fine, President
Lorenzo Snow seemed in the best of health
and spirits, also his counselors, President
George Q. Cannon and President Joseph F.
Smith, who were present on the stand, also
President Franklin D. Richards and a num-
ber of Apostles, and the choir were in good
voice as usual. The entire session of the
conference which included Sunday, was of
the greatest interest, and the attendance
each day was very large.
	On Saturday a priesthood meeting con-
vened in the large Tabernacle, and the Re-
lief Society held its two sessions morning
and afternoon in the Assembly Hall on the
same day, and there was a larger congre-
gation than on any previous occasion,
which is indicative of progress and an in-
crease in members.
	President Zina D. H. Young and her en-
tire board of officers were present on the 
stand and many Relief Society Stake presi-
dents, some of them from long distances.
	During the morning session President
Mary A. Hyde of Sanpete Stake spoke in
the gift of tongues, and the audience seemed
much impressed with the spirit which at-
tended this manifestation. Dr. Elvira S.
Barney gave the interpretation and it was
apparently a blessing and prophecy to the
sisters engaged in the benevolent work of
ministering to the needy, the afflicted and
the sorrowing.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts reported con-
cerning the charitable nursing class taught
by her during the last winter under the
auspices of the Relief Society of Salt Lake
Stake, and of the interest taken in their
studies by the students and her own enthu-
siasm in teaching them and her ardent de-
sire to see them acquit themselves well.
	Sister Priscilla J. Riter gave something
of her experience as superintendent of the
practical work of the nurses, her plans and
ideas, and what had been done in this de-
partment for the sick and suffering. 
	Other speakers during the morning were
President Zina D. H. Young who spoke a
few words of welcome to the large congre-
gation, expressing her great pleasure,
especially in seeing so many representatives
from a distance.
	President B. W. Smith spoke a few
words encouraging the young girls to join

[Column 2]
the society, and entreated them to keep
themselves pure and virtuous and serve the
Lord.
	President M. Isabella Horne alluded to
the signs of the times, and urged the sisters
to beware of evil influences.
	President Jane S. Richards dwelt upon
charity and alluded to the scriptures, where
the Lord said “Do good to them that de-
spitefully use you and persecute you.”
	Meeting closed with prayer by Dr. R. B.
Pratt.
	The afternoon meeting was even more
interesting if possible than the session in
the morning. Apostle F. M. Lyman was
present and listened attentively to the sis-
ters; several from far away places were
called upon and spoke briefly of their labors.
Among these were Sister Thomas from
Canada; Miss Millie Campbell from Ban-
nock, Idaho; Sister E. Woollacott from
Los Angeles and Sister Harriet Nye from
San Francisco; President Lucy Grant from
Woodruff, a Stake only recently organized,
and Sister Julia Blackburn from Wayne.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman addressed the con-
gregation for a short time, commended the
labors of the sisters in the society. He re-
vered the mothers in Israel who had labored
so long and faithfully, urged the young
women to become members and be helpful
in this benevolent work, the society should 
be so popular that not one woman should
be left who was not registered, it was a
good thing to be registered, at least every
married woman should be a member of the
Relief Society, the very first and choicest
section of the Church. He referred to the
meeting he attended with the sisters in
Tooele on the 17th of March, with seventy
four sisters, that day was the Relief Society
day and would be held sacred in the future.
Spoke of other important events transpir-
ing on that day, and bore testimony that he
came to the Sisters’ Conference laden with 
the blessings of President Lorenzo Snow 
for the sisters, and that they had his love
and confidence; and Apostle Lyman after
saying many good things blest the sisters 
one and all.
	Sister L. L. Greene Richards spoke a 
few words concerning her visit to the Relief
Society in Chicago, and spoke very sweetly
of Sister Rosa Smith, the president of that
society, who was a Nephi girl, and how
President Paxman had told her—she should
yet preside, and his words had been literally
fulfilled.
	Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Jane S.
Richards each spoke briefly, and some oth-
ers, President Ann C. Woodbury of St.
George, who displayed some silk made at
that place; President Eliza B. Orms of Poca-
tello Stake; Sister Bergen from Arizona, and
a few others. The congregation sang “O,
my Father,” and a benediction was pro-
nounced by President Sarah Jane Cannon.

	Sunday services were held in the Taber-
nacle morning and afternoon, and also an
overflow meeting in the Assembly Hall
in the afternoon, both places were crowd-
ed, many remained standing during the
entire service. The conference throughout
was glorious and excellent in spiritual
teaching, and filled with wise counsel and
instruction to the people if they will but
hearken to the voice of the spirit.


Any complaints from subscribers in
reference to the Woman’s Exponent
should be sent to the editor at this office
and will be promptly explained.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Errata: In the article in April 1st, en-
titled “A Pleasant’ Gathering” there are
two mistakes—the name of the town
where Mrs. Folsom was born should
have been West Suffield instead of Suf-
folk, and the year of their arrival in the
valley was 1860 instead of 1853.
	During conference time we had the
great pleasure of a brief visit from Mrs.
Hannah J. Bailey, of Winthrop Centre,
Maine, on her return from California,
whither she went last fall in search of
health and for a respite from business
cares. Mrs Bailey was the treasurer of
the National Council during the last four
years, and is a woman of great executive
and financial ability. She was traveling
with her brother, Mr. Johnston, who has
extensive commercial interests. They
were both pleased with Salt Lake City
and its people. Mrs. Bailey and brother
attended conference Thursday afternoon,
and we had the pleasure of a call from
the lady at this office, and of spending an
evening with Mrs. Bailey and Mr. John-
ston at the Knutsford. The following
day we went with them to introduce them
to the Governor and left them with the
Governor’s private secretary; Mrs. Emily
S. Richards and Mrs. Margaret A. Caine
accompanied them to the Lake in the
afternoon. We were very sorry the sis-
ters had not an opportunity of showing
Mrs. Bailey some special attention, as she
is not only a very prominent woman in
the Council, but also a very sweet and
amiable person and is everywhere high-
ly respected.
	The Mothers’ Congress which was held
in the Assembly Hall in this city on the
10th and 11th of this month, proved to be
of great interest to the public, and gives
those who have undertaken the move-
ment encouragement in its future success
as a permanent organization. Miss Mary
C. May who has been the president in the
past has been very active and efficient in
promulgating the idea, in connection with
Kindergarten teaching, and deserves
commendation for her exertions in this
direction. It is safe to say we cannot
have too much knowledge on the subjects
of mother, child and home. Mrs. Rebec-
ca E. Little, the new president, and Mrs.
Emily S. Richards, the first vice president,
are well known in the community and
will certainly be able to carry on the
work successfully. The ladies from the
East, Mrs. Westendorf and Mrs Helen
Campbell, are well known in a literary
way, eloquent speakers and good reason-
ers, and chose subjects suited to the times
and eminently popular with the audience.
Excellent papers were given by Susa
Y. Gates and Amy B. Lyman, and Prof.
Geo. H. Brimhall of the Brigham Young
Academy gave a very interesting talk on
Intelligent Fatherhood. Altogether it was
a successful session of the Mothers’ Assem-
bly, and gives great hopes for the future.


ANOTHER RELIEF SOCIETY.

	Persuant to previous arrangements a fair
representation of ladies of this city met at
the Saint’s Church for the purpose of
effecting the organization of a Relief
Society at St. John’s, Kansas, Jan. 8, 1899.
	Elder Wm. J. Jack was present, and after


the opening exercises stated briefly the
object of the Relief Society, explaining the
benefits to be derived and extended to
others in a social and benevolent way.
	Sister M. E. Taylor and Belle Copening,
of Utah, also spoke encouragingly of the
proposition, and related their experience as
members of similar associations out west.
	In a few well chosen remarks all the 
ladies present signified their willingness to
take hold and do their best to make the 
society a success.
	Officers for the society were nominated
and elected as follows: Mrs. Lucy Brecken-
ridge, president; selection of first and 
second vice presidents postponed until next
meeting; Mrs. Margaret Budge, secretary;
Mrs. Mary J. Bryant, treasurer. The
assembly then selected four ladies as the
visiting committee, Mrs. B. K. Oden, Mrs.
C. Shiller, Mrs. Alice Gooing and Miss
Georgie Oden, after which the society ad-
journed to meet at the same place, Thurs-
day 12th, at 2 p. m. Benediction was pro-
nounced by Mrs. Belle Copening.
	The names enrolled were Lucy Brecken-
ridge, Margaret Budge, Mary J. Bryant,
B. K. Oden, Joanna Miller, Alice Gooing,
Georgie Oden, Annara Baker, Ida Brecken-
ridge, Mary Dixon, Mary E. Taylor, Belle 
Copening, Sister Cooper, Sister Lawhead.
		MARGARET BUDGE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A WORD OF ADVICE.

	We celebrated the 17th of March and had
a good program rendered, two pieces were
read from the “Exponent,” and our presi-
dent, Sister Lucy Wilson, spoke in favor of
the “Exponent” and advised the sisters to
sustain that paper. Sister L. Liljenquist
also spoke in behalf of the “Exponent.”
	I have been thinking that if our by-laws
could be changed so as to have our annual
meeting come on the 17th of March instead
of the first Saturday in February, I believe
that all the sisters in the north would ap-
preciate that change, as the first Saturday
in February is always so cold, and it seems
it is a very bad time for mothers to get to
meeting. If it could be changed to March
17th, at 2 p. m., and it was made our an-
nual day for voting in our officers, I think
we would have a much better time at this
celebration, as we in Hyrum celebrate the


9th of May, it being the anniversary of the
organization of our Relief Society, it seems
like three annuals so near together is too
many.  I thought I would just make this
suggestion and perhaps those who have the
authority to make the change would think
it wise to do so in the future.
	Wishing the “Exponent” success, Iremain,
		Your sister in the Gospel of Christ,
					REBECCA O. ALLEN.


ITEMS FROM MEXICO.

COLONIA, JUAREZ.
	In compliance with the wish of the
General Board, the Relief Society of Colon-
ia, Juarez, gave a party on the evening of
March 17, in commemoration of the day on
which the Relief Society was organized in
the year 1842.
	At seven o’clock in the evening the
meeting house bell rang out its cheerful
ding-dong, and people came from far and
near. All married people of the town were
invited. In a short time the house was
well filled. The orchestra set up a lively
tune and all who wished to do so engaged
in the dance, while others spent the time in
social chat. From time to time during the
evening, songs, recitations, and speeches
were rendered, making a very pleasing


program. The house was nicely decorated
for the occasion, especially the stage which
presented a cosy appearance, for the commit-
tee had provided cosy chairs for the aged.
Tables were interspersed here and there
which were strewn with views, art books
and bouquets of flowers. The walls were
neatly decorated with the national colors,
red, white and green, also mistletoe and
pictures, giving a home-like appearance to
the scene.
	Some months ago Sister Phoebe Fife;
who had been president of the society for a
number of years, decided to make her
future home in Arizona, therefore she gave
in her resignation. This was thought a
suitable occasion to reorganize the society.
The Bishop, J. C. Bentley, being present
an organization was effected with Mary B.
Eyring president, and Annie H. Clayson as
first and Jane Croff as second counselors.
	Immediately after the reorganization,
Sister Eyring, who is Stake president of
the Relief Society, made a very fitting
speech on Relief Society work. Then fol-
lowed refreshments which were served by
a bevy of the younger sisters. The picnic,
consisting of roast chicken, sandwiches,
pickles, pie, cake, tarts and lemonade, was
a great success, and was served to about
one hundred and fifty individuals. The
order in which the picnic was served was
one of the main features of the evening’s
entertainment, and great credit is due the
committee for the able manner in which
the whole affair was conducted.
	The recent visit of Dr. Karl G. Maeser
and Elder D. John Nuttall to our dear little
home in Sunny South, has been a source
of joy to the Saints who reside here. At a
special meeting of the Relief Society Broth-
er L. John Nuttall instructed the sisters in
regard to the real objects of the Relief
Society. They are organized not only for
the relief of the poor, but for the salvation
of souls; for the putting down of iniquity,
correcting the morals find manners and
strengthening the virtues. This should be
a select society, separate from all the evils
of the world, choice, virtuous find holy.
The young ladies should be encouraged to
take part in this society, that they may not
be taken away into outside associations and
be led by other influences than that the
Gospel gives. Brother Nuttall kindly
urged the sisters to study the Church
works and give lectures from them in their
meetings.
		SARAH A. CLAYSON, Stake Sec.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	 Semi-monthly meeting held Feb. 25,
1899, in the 14th ward hall with Counselor
Elizabeth J. Stevenson presiding. Singing,
“Who are these arrayed in white?” Pray-
er by Sister Margaret Steele. Singing
“O, happy souls!”
	Sister Stevenson said we had met togeth-
er to have a feast. Sister Zina had said
“a testimony meeting was like a picnic—
one brought one thing, and another some-
thing else.” Spoke of the necessity of
watching our children, said there was great
danger of apostacy at the present time.
Teach children whenever we meet them, we
should talk to the boys as well as the girls.
The Prophet Joseph Smith said the mothers
could influence their children even before
they were born. Thought parents should
call upon their children to pray in turn.
Referred to the faith of Timothy, who had
received it through the teaching of his
mother and grandmother. We should set
an example worthy of emulation before our
children.
	Sister Mary L. Morris spoke of the
efficacy of prayer in the rearing of her
children, also related an incident showing
mothers how to teach truthfulness and
honesty among their children.
	Sister Webb said she hoped we had all
left our cares at home to come here and en-
joy the spirit of the Lord. Could see that
not only the little children needed the care
and teaching of mothers, but our married
children also needed our counsel and prayer.
Said she had always taught her boys as
well as girls to be virtuous. We must be
charitable to the young people, lead them,
they cannot be coerced.
	Sister Mary A. Hardy spoke of the bless-
ing the Relief Society had been to her.
Said that we should be united, and how
careful we should be about finding fault
with the Servants of God.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “The trials of
the present day.”
	Sister Jeffs said she had never had cause
to regret the part she had taken in the Re-
lief Society, it had proven a benefit to her.
She knew Joseph Smith was a prophet of
God.
	Sister Mary E. Bassett said she always
felt fed and strengthened when she came to
these meetings.
	Sister Saunders said she had always
praised the Lord that she was worthy to be
a Latter-day Saint. The Gospel was
sweeter to her all the time.
	A sister in the congregation bore a hum-
ble testimony of God’s goodness.
	Sister Jones said she came to get a spirit-
ual feast, that she had left her cares at
home, and that she had received what she
came for. Another sister spoke of the gift
of healing in her behalf, and other gifts and
blessings she had received through faith.
	Sister L. D. Alder spoke of the instruc-
tions of Sister Sarah M. Kimball to the women
to pay their tithing, related an incident in


tithe paying, how God rewards us for keep-
ing this commandment.
	Sister Julia G. Howe spoke of the com-
fort the Lord had given her in her trials
this winter. Said in coming to meeting
she renewed her strength, and said we
should be faithful and do our duty, that
when we have trials we can draw near to
our Heavenly Father; and let us not speak
against the authorities, nor harbor ill feel-
ings against any one.
	Sister Frances Smith bore testimony of
the Gospel. Another sister bore testimony
of God’s goodness.
	Sister Jane James spoke of the truthful-
ness of tithe paying. Said she wanted to
live so that the Lord would hear and
answer her prayers. She knew her Redeem-
er lived.
	The congregation sang “Come let us
anew.” Sister Mary Silver said she be-
lieved in paying tithing. She knew the
Lord would bless us for doing so and keep-
ing the word of wisdom. Said she thanked
the Lord she was one among this peo-
ple.
	Sister Maerentha Bulbock said she knew
this was a very trying age, and she knew
she could go to the Lord for His help.
Felt that she had been fed spiritually.
	Sister Ellis knew this was the kingdom
of God. Spoke of the gift of healing that
had lately been made manifest in her
family.
	Counselor Stevenson said it made her re-
joice to see the young sisters bear testimony
in these meetings.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Singing, “Satan’s empire long has flour-
shed.” Benediction by Sister Brown.
				J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


REAPER’S CLUB NOTES.
	
	The Reaper’s Club met in the Woman’s
Exponent office, Templeton, on the 20th of
March, 1899.
	An interesting paper was read by Mrs.
Mary L. Morris, on the History of Cortez.
She gave a description of the conquest of
Mexico by the Spaniards under this leader,
mentioned the cruel way in which Monte-
zuma, a native king, had been treated, and
other items of history.
	Mrs. Lucy B. Young related some inci-
dents of her trip to the East, and spoke of a
pleasant visit which she and others had
made to the Kirtland Temple. She said
that after permission had been given the
brethren and sisters sang two hymns. The
first selection was “The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning.” She also alluded to
other meetings she had attended, she en-
joyed these visits very much.
	Current events were given by other
members of the Reaper’s Club.
	Adjourned for two weeks and dismissed
with prayer by Mrs. E. J. Stevenson.
			I. A. DRUCE, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PROCLAMATION.

	“Whereas, A treaty of peace between
the United States of America and her
majesty, the queen regent of Spain, in the
name of her august son, Don Alfonso XIII,
was concluded and signed by their respec-
tive plenipotentiaries at Paris, on the 10th
day of December, 1898, the original of
which is in the Spanish language, is word
for word as follows:
	(Here full text of treaty is included)—and
	“Whereas, the said convention has been
duly ratified on both parts and the ratifica-
tions of the two governments were ex-
changed in the city of Washington, on the
11th day of April, one thousand eight hun-
dred and ninety-nine.
	“Now, therefore be it known, that I,
William McKinley, President of the United
States of America, have caused the said
convention to be made public to the end
that the same and every article and clause
thereof, may be observed and fulfilled, with
good faith by the United States and the
citizens thereof.
	“In witness whereof I have hereunto set
my hand and caused the seal of the United
States to be affixed.
	“Done at the city of Washington, this
11th day of April, in the year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and ninety-
nine, and of the independence of the
United States the one hundred and twenty-
third.
WILLIAM MCKINLEY.
	By the President:
			JOHN HAY,
				Secretary of State.


IN MEMORIAM.

	IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE
	We the Primary officers of Davis Stake,
in meeting assembled, desire to express our
sorrow and regret that one of our members
whom we loved so well has been called
away.
	Sister Jane W. Hooper Blood was presi-
dent of the Primary Association of Kays-
ville, organized September 18, 1879, and
remained faithful to her trust until over-
taken with a sickness that terminated in
her death on September 7, 1898.
	Mrs. Blood was born May 2, 1845, in
Southhampton, Hampshire, England.
Emigrated with her parents to America,
arriving in Salt Lake City in 1854, and
moved from there to Taylorsville in April
1855. She was married to William Blood
September 9, 1861. She had ten children,
five boys and five girls, all living.
	Besides holding a position in the Primary
she was secretary in the Relief Society, a
teacher in the Sunday School and a mem-
ber of the choir in the ward where she
lived. Sister Blood was devoted to her
family, and with all of her public duties
home was not neglected. She was a model
wife and mother.
	We desire to dedicate these few lines to
her memory, and have them published in
the Woman’s Exponent and a copy sent to
the family, which will cause her to be kept
in remembrance of our associations to-
gether.
	Affectionately Inscribed,
	AURELIA S. ROGERS, Prest.

	JEMIMA WILLIS SMITH.
	We feel it a duty to record the death of
one of our beloved sisters, Jemima W.
Smith, who departed this life in 1899,
at her home in Snowflake, Arizona.
	We have known her faithfulness, wit-
nessed her sacrifices and works of charity,
her humble and true demeanor, her devo-
tion to her aged husband and her labors in
Relief Society work for many years, and
her good deeds have been inspiring unto
us. For twenty five years she never
missed a sacrament meeting or gathering of
the Relief Society unless detained by sick-
ness. Her work for the dead was not
neglected and for years, when her health
would allow, she went in person to the
Holy Temple. When too feeble she sent
the names of her dead, and always paid for
the work being done. She has been Stake
treasurer for the Relief Society for a num-
ber of years, and we her colaborers offer
these resolutions of respect as a slight
token of our love:
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That inasmuch as our Stake
treasurer, Jemima W.Smith, has been called
from our midst, we wish to express our
appreciation of her worth.
	Resolved, That we emulate her nobility
of character and unfaltering devotion to the
truth.
	Resolved, That as she has died childless
we desire by some means to perpetuate her
memory.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be re-
corded in our Stake record and a copy pub-
lished in the Woman’s Exponent.
	Emma S. Smith, Sarah Griggs, Mary J.
West, Lucy H. Flake, Frances Wells.


THE CLIFF DWELLERS.

READ AT THE U. W. P. C., MARCH 31, 1899.
	The final relations to which all knowledge
tends, are those connecting intelligent man
with the universe of which he forms a part.
	Knowledge progresses, not only by ex-
tension, but also by invention, viz.—As
the fields extend, so also knowledge be-
comes more definite, more significant, more
useful, and in every way closer to the intel-
ligent being.
	Knowledge begins with the remote, and
proceeds toward the near.
	The stars were studies, and first astrol-
ogy, and afterwards astronomy came. The
remoter lands were explored, and geography
arose. Gems and rare earth were examined,
and chemistry developed. Plants were in-
vestigated, then botany came. Animals
were subjected to research, and zoology
became a science.
	Mountains, mines, rocks and soil were
studied, and geology was organized. Man-
kind was investigated in their various as-
pects, and anthropology came into being.
	The organizations and definition of
science yields a definite basis for scientific
classification of the races and people of the
earth, including the tribes of America.
	The sixteenth annual report of the
Bureau of American Ethnology is most im-
portant, and the general work has now
reached such a stage as to afford trustworthy
standpoints for future work in Ethnic
classifications.
	The creation and migration traditions of
the Navajoes in regard to chronological
sequence and events, and the advent of the
ancestors of the Navajoes in the San Juan
valley about the end of the 15th century,
is thereby established.
	The original Navajoes were probably
cliff dwellers, and the tribes appear not to
be a ramification of the Apaches, as hither-
to supposed.
	It is probable that the Apaches were al-
ready in the San Juan region at the advent
of the Navajoes.
	By reason of limited numbers the Apach-
es and Navajoes did not molest the Pueblo
tribe prior to the 17th century. Perhaps
the most important lesson to learn through
researches concerning the American tribes,
is that primitive people reflect their environ-
ments on food yielding coasts. The
families and tribes are organized for fishing.
In the forest they are organized for chase or
for war. On the prairie they are organized
for agriculture, or for the hunting of herbi-
vores.
	In the valley and arid regions they are
organized for agriculture and defence.
Thus, you see, the social organization is
bound up with the industries, and with the
social condition.
	Mr. Minderhoff’s paper on the Cliff
Dwellers in the Canyon De Chelly, (pro-
nounced De Chaye) gives an account of the
ruins of a district but little known. He
says that it is certain that the Cliff Dwellers
migrated under the stress of predation by
neighboring tribes, into this district by
which they were fain to gather for suste-
nance and mutual protection on easily de-
fended sites, near the moist and bottom-
lands on which their crops were raised.
	His observation demonstrates that the
Cliff Dwellers were nothing more than
Indians, sometimes not related among one
another by consanguinity, nor institutional
affinity; yet related in most of their char-


[Column 1]
acteristics, not only among each other, but
with the neighboring tribes, and through
these with all the aborigines of the conti-
nent.
	The ancient village of the Canyon De
Chelly, either on the cliff, Mesa or bottom-
lands, are known as the Aztec ruins. The
Estufas of the Cliff Dwellers correspond with
the medicine lodges of the Indians of the
plains.
	It is claimed that most of the American
tribes had advanced to the stage of graphic
symbolism, and thus were on the threshold
of writing when the new world was dis-
covered by Columbus. The art was rudi-
mentary and limited to crude pictography,
which was painted or sculptured on cliff
faces, boulders, the walls of caverns and
other rocks and surfaces, and even frequent-
ly on trees, skins, barks and various artific-
lal objects. These crude autographic rec-
ords of the Indians of the United States
have been studied with care, and many of
them have been illustrated and interpreted.
	Among certain Mexican tribes autograph-
ic records were in use, and were painted
and sculptured on stone and moulded in
stucco.
	Among the Kiowa, as among other plain
Indians, and indeed all the aboriginal
tribes, there is a wide spread symbolism by
which the arts are influenced and guided,
under this symbolism, hence shields, ar-
rows, pipes, musical instruments, robes and
other articles are inscribed, painted, or
otherwise marked with designs.
	In many cases these designs possess dec-
orative value, and they are commonly sup-
posed to be used simply for decoration; but
study of the Indian character and motive
show that the design is not primarily dec-
orative, but symbolic and fraught with
meaning to those who understand symbol-
ism.
	Among the Kiowa Indians it is differen-
tiated into a crude, yet highly significant
system of heraldry, which throws much
light upon the mediaeval heraldy of
Europe.
	The Navajoes do not make any kind of
pottery, they confine themselves to blankets 
and bead work, and exchange these with
other tribes for pottery.
	Right here let me say a few words for
our cliff dwellings in Utah. I could find no
Ethnological report on it, and rely upon
the cattlemen of that section of country for
my information.
	The Ethnologist could scarcely find a
better field in which to labor with surer re-
sults than Grand and San Juan Counties,
Utah.
	The whole region bounded by the Grand
River on the north, the San Juan River on
the south, the Colorado on the north and
west, has at some period been inhabited by
a prehistoric race which in common par-
lance has been termed the Cliff Dwellers.
	You cannot travel very many miles in
this region without finding relics from
which certain conclusions may be drawn.
	The aridity of this region is, and for
centuries has been such, that certain relics
are found in a state of preservation that
would lead to the conclusion that they were
of recent manufacture, yet no tribes of
Indians have any traditions of these people.
	Immediately west of Moab the mountains
rise abruptly to an elevation of 1,500 or
2,000 feet, the top constituting what is
termed a rim rock, and back of this is a
Mesa or plateau, situated on this plateau
and looking down the valley, is an old fort.

[Column 2]
	This fort is constructed on flat rock and
the old walls, artificially built, are still in a
comparatively good condition. The en-
trance to this fort is through a hole cut
through the solid rock this hole is not
over twenty inches wide.
	In the interior are found many pieces of
broken pottery with painting on them, the
paint being burned into the pottery, the
colors being perfectly bright.
	In the western part of San Juan County
is a place called “Beef Basin” by cattlemen.
The entrance to this basin is by an old
Indian trail. The basin extends down to
the Colorado River, and surrounding it are
high mountains with rim rock and many
little canyons extending down into the
basin. All the way around this basin, a
distance of many miles, are evidences of its
having been inhabited by Cliff Dwellers.
	Their houses may be found up among
the cliffs, in the condition they left them,
This place has been explored but very
little.
	Mr. Ed Turner, of Indian Creek, is the
only person who has attempted any extend-
ed exploration, and he has been well re-
warded.
	In one of the houses he found a jar and a
blanket which had been manufactured from
cotton, and in the jar was also found loose
cotton. The blanket and cotton were in a
perfect state of preservation. This blanket
is now owned by Mr. Wheeler, cashier of a
bank in Telluride, Colo. It is highly colored
and figured, and bears a resemblance to the
Navajoe blankets now manufactured.
	Mr. V. P. Martin, who represented San
Juan County two years ago in the Legis-
lature, has many relics taken from these
houses. Stone hammers with withes
twisted around them for handles; flinty
stones, shaped like a hatchet, evidently
used for skinning knives; mocassins made
from the fibre of the soap weed; several
skeins of this fibre highly colored and
twisted together like woolen yarn; pieces
of keel showing that they had been used
for drawing the many designs on the face
of the cliffs; a piece of cloth resembling
linolium a quarter of an inch thick, tightly
woven and saturated with some kind of
pitch; a bunch of needles resembling needles
from the pinion pine trees, tightly bound
together and evidently used as a comb,
quantities of black human hair being found
at the end of the needles, or comb.
	Mr. Turner has a jar which he obtained
from one of these houses, that will hold
some three or four gallons. It is in the
shape of a keg or barrel, and is decorated
with bright colors which have been burned
in the pottery. 
	He also has a ladle or dipper that will
hold about a quart, which is highly decora-
ted. Many of the houses on the sides of
the cliffs are inaccessible, but the old ladders
that were used by the Cliff Dwellers are
still to be seen.
	A man by the name of Hammond, who
formerly lived at Kane Springs, San Juan
County, had a wicker basket made of
withes bound together with fibres of the
soap weed, and in this basket, fastened to
it with fibres, was the skeleton of a child,
which at its death was probably a year old.
	Down on the San Juan River many
skeletons have been unearthed and shipped
to Eastern colleges, some were exhibited at
the World’s Fair, in almost every instance
the remains were mummified, and some of
them indicated a stature of nearly six feet.
On some skeletons was hair light in color.

[Column 3]
	There are many of these houses around
Beef Basin that have never been explored,
and there is quite a field for those who are
interested in pictographic records of the
Indians.
	Although the Canyon De Chelly is one
of the best cliff ruin regions of the United
States, it is not easily accessible and is
practically unknown.
	In 1846-49 vague rumors were current of
wonderful cities built in the cliffs, but the
positions of the canyons in the heart of the
Navajoe country prevented exploration.
	In 1849 an expedition was sent out under
the command of Col. Washington, then
Governor of New Mexico. They camped
in Chin Lee Valley, and Lieut. Simpson
made a trip into the canyon about seven
miles; and the ruin he described is known
now as Cassa Blanca. Simpson’s descrip- 
tion, although brief, formed the basis of all
accounts for thirty years. None of the
Hayden exploration party penetrated the
canyon, only W. H. Jackson. He de-
scribes some of the ruins in the Rio De
Chelly, in the lower Chin Lee Valley, thus:
	“The strange newly discovered cities of
the southwest, the picturesque piles of
masonry of an age unknown to tradition,
these ruins marked an area among anti-
quarians. The mysterious mound builders
fade into comparative insignificance before
the grander and more ancient Cliff 
Dwellers, whose castles lift their towers 
amid the sands of Arizona, and crown the
terrace slopes of the Rio Mancas and the
Hovenweap.”
	Of the Chaco ruins he says, in size and
grandeur of conception they equal any of
the present buildings of the United States,
if we except the Capitol at Washington,
and may without discredit be compared to
the Pantheon and the Colliseum of the old
world.
	The plateau of the country is extremely
rugged, and the topographical obstacles to
travel are greater than in many wild
mountain regions.
	It is a country of cliffs and canyons, of 
considerable magnitude; and although the
strata appears to be horizontal they are 
slightly tilted. Each formation appears as
a terrace bounded on one side by a de-
scending cliff carved out of the edges of its
own strata and on the other by ascending 
cliffs carved out of the strata which over-
lie it. The most conspicuous formaton of
the whole region is a mass of red sand-
stone, out of which has been carved the
most striking and typical features, which 
will be a subject of wonder and delight to
coming generations. The most superb
canyons are the Canyon De Chelly and the
Del Maerto.
	The lofty pinnacles and towers of the San 
Juan County, the finest walls of the great
upper chasm of the Colorado, are the verti-
cal edges of this red sand stone.
	The mouth of the Canyon De Chelly is
sixty miles south of the Utah boundary,and
twenty-five miles west of that of Mexico.
	At the junction of the Canyon De Chelly
and Monument Canyon is a beautiful rock
needle or pinnacle, standing out from the
cliffs, not more than a hundred and sixty-
five feet on the ground and its height is
eight hundred feet. It has been named in
conjunction with somewhat similar pinna-
cles, “The Captains.”
	One of the characteristic features of the
canyon at the present day is the immense
number of peach trees; in one instance
there is a clump of peach trees, perhaps as


[Column 1]
many as a thousand in an orchard. When
the fruit ripens the Navajoes flock to the
place like an immense flock of vultures.
	The buildings in this canyon consist of a
conglomeration of small cells, all the houses
are two stories high and the lower story
is entered from the roof. The Estufa is
generally circular in form, the ground
plans of some ruins in the Del Maerto
show that at one time it covered consider-
able land, there remain sixteen rooms on
the ground, in addition to two Estufas.
	Another where the walls are still stand-
ing to a height of three stories, this shows
about twenty rooms, with three Estufas.
	In the center of the ruins are the remains
of a very large Estufa, over thirty six feet
in diameter.
	The largest ruin in the Canyon Del
Maerto is situated at the base of the cliff
and is known to the Navajoes as Pak-ashi-
izine, or the "Blue Cow." The name was
derived from a pictograph of a cow done in
blue paint on the walls back of the ruin.
	There appears plainly about forty rooms
with four Estufas, and traces of forty or
fifty more rooms. One of the most im-
portant ruins in this canyon is called Cassa
Blanca. It is also known under the equiva-
lent Navajoes term, Kini-na-e-kai–or
White House.
	It is evident that some of the houses were
four stories high against the cliffs. The
lower ruin covers an area of a hundred and
fifty by fifty feet. About forty five rooms
on the ground in addition to a circular
Estufa. It is probable that the lower ruins
comprised sixty rooms.
	Roof debris is especially abundant, con-
sisting of small twigs, lumps of clay, with
ends or beams projecting here or there.
All the heavy walls occur either about the
Estufa or east of it.
	Another large ruin is known as the
"Mummy Cave."
	Near the mouth of the canyon where
there is not much tillable land there are
few ruins, but where good land is plenty,
there is an abundance of ruins. Between
the mouth of the Canyon De Chelly and
the junction of Monument Canyon, only
thirteen miles, there are seventy one ruins.
	It is impossible for a writer to convey in
plain black and white any idea of the
beauties of this country. It is a land re-
quiring the painter to exhibit its beauties.
	One of the interesting peculiarities is
where a ruined house is dug into, and all
the skeletons of its occupants are found in
one room, and always near a fireplace.
	The postures of these skeletons are as
various as it is possible for the human body
to assume. They are found kneeling
sometimes with their hands locked over
their heads, stretched out straight and on
their sides, and with their children in their
arms. Hardly any two alike in the same
house.
	Mr. Davis of the Corralitos company be-
lieved that they were cut off by a violent
earthquake, and that this great cataclysm
caught them at their evening meal, as that
was the only occasion where they all
gathered together at home.
	Another interesting feature is the storage
and burial cists. Facilities for the storage
of grain and other produce are essential in
the system of agriculture, and the storage
cists are found everywhere. It is not
meant that when the crops were harvested
they were placed in these cists, and kept
there until used for the harvest was as a
rule permanently stored in the home vil-

[Column 2]
lage, and the cists were used only for
temporary storage.
	The number of burial cists in the canyon
is remarkable. There are hundreds of
them, and the remains of the Navajoe dead
may still be seen. The burial cists are
usually built in the corner or against a
wall of the cliff house. These structures are
dome shaped. As a whole the Navajoe
cists are much more difficult of access than
the ruins, and some of them are really
inaccessible.
	The Kiva or Estufa, as they formerly
were called, are sacred chambers in which
the civil and religious affairs are transacted.
And they also form a place of resort or
club for the men.
	The entrance to the Estufa is invariably
from the roof by a ladder. This appears to
be a ceremonial requirement. The greatest
care seems to be the construction and finish
of the estufa. They are used principally in
the fall and winter when the farming sea-
son is over, then the ceremonies and dances
take place.
	Most of the Estufas have a bench around
them about a foot wide and two feet high.
The most elaborate Estufa is found in the
Mummy Cave ruin. Bands with points
occur sometimes on the walls, which are
treated as a picturegraph, about fifteen
miles from Moab, there are many rocks
covered with writings similar to these.
	When you ask a Navajoe what became
of the people who built the houses in Can-
yon De Chelly, he will say, "A great wind
arose and swept them all away," which is
equivalent to saying that they do not know.
	To understand the ruins so profusely
scattered in the Pueblo country, we must
have some knowledge of the condition un-
der which the inhabitants lived. There is
no warrant whatever for the old assumption
that the Cliff Dwellers, were a separate race,
and the cliff dwellers must be regarded as
only a phase of Pueblo architecture.
	The peculiarities of Pueblo architecture is
that its results were always retained by em-
ployment of the material at hand. Noth-
ing is transported to any distance. The
geological and topographical environments
of the Canyon De Chelly was favored by
the Cliff Dwellers, as it was a good place
for the practise of horticulture. The sites
are all selected with a view to an outlook
over some adjacent area of cultivatable
land. The same sites are used today by
the Navajoes in connection with farming
operations.
	The cliffs in the Canyon De Chelly, the
Cavate lodges of New Mexico and Arizona,
the watch tower of San Juan, the
summer villages attached to many of the
Pebelos, are all functionally analogous, and
all are the outgrowth of certain industrial
requirements. And the example of a
primitive people who entered the region
with preconceived and fully developed
ideas, but who left it before those ideas
were fully brought into accord with the
environments, but not before they were
influenced by it.
LUELLA M. RHODES.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The annual convention of the Daughters
of the Revolution will be held at the Hotel
Stratford, Philadelphia, on April 24.
While the actual date of the business ses-
sion is Monday, April 24, the meeting will
extend over the entire week, beginning on
Sunday 23, with a special service for the
Daughters at Christ Church.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	 to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have 
	you such an account? If not, open
	 one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. l-3-5 Main Street.

NOTICE.

	To complete my volumes of the Woman’s
Exponent I lack the following numbers:
Volume VII., No. 3, July 1, 1878; Volume
XI., No. 16, January 15, 1873; Volume XIII.
Nos. 1 and 2, June 1 and 15, 1884; Vol-
ume XVI., No. 20, March 15, 1888; also
April 1, 1892, and October 1, 1895.
	To any one willing to part with them I
will pay ten cents a paper, but please com-
municate by letter or card before sending
papers. Address
			   ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Room 226 Constitution Bldg., S. L. City.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.

TIME TABLE IN EFFECT MARCH 19, 1899.

ARRIVE.
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis, Kansas City
	and Denver....................................................................3:30 a.m. 
From Ogden, Cache Valley, Portland, Butte and San
	Francisco.......................................................................8:55 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha and Denver..........3:05 p.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley and San Francisco.....................7:20 p.m.
**From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete and intermediate
	points.............................................................................9:35 a.m.
From Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points........................6:30 p.m.
*From Tooele and Terminus..................................................6:00 p.m.

DEPART.
For Ogden, Park City, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, Kan-
	sas City and St. Louis....................................................7:00 a.m.
For Ogden, Cache Valley and intermediate points................8:00 a.m.
**For Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points.......................8:00 a.m.
For Ogden, Denver, St. Louis, Chicago, San Francisco........6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Portland, San Francisco............................9:45 a.m.
**For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and Frisco.............................5:30 p.m.
*For Tooele and Terminus....................................................7:45 a.m.
	**Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays
	*Daily except Sunday.
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall,
Second South Street.
	S. W. ECCLES,		D. E. BURLEY.
Gen. Traffic Manager.	Gen. P. and T. Agent
			 W. H. BANCROFT.
	Vice President and Gen’l Manager.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1899.		NO. 23.


CONTENTS:
	Obedience Without Severity—Mrs. Amy Brown
Lyman Education and Motherhood—Lydia D.
Alder. To Branches of the Relief Society—E. R.
Snow Smith. General Conference Relief Society
—E. B. Wells, Sec. A Successful Celebration—
Nellie A. Morver. A Flourishing Branch—Rhoda
Celestia Nash. National Woman’s Relief Society
— E. B. W. Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting—J.
S. Woolley, Sec U. W. P. C.—Aimee C. Schil-
ler, Sec. Academy Exercises—Nellie Beecroft.
	EDITORIAL:—Peace Meeting. International
Council of Women. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Retrospection Hyacinth.


RETROSPECTION.

I strolled amid the quiet charm,
Of the twilight’s placid calm;
I heard the cricket’s gruesome cry,
And the katydid’s reply;
Mine eyes beheld the sun’s last ray,
Steal athwart the lucid bay,
And kiss the sailboat’s soft, white face,
And the clinging mists efface. 

My footsteps lingered near the wall,
Over-run with rosevines tall;—
Where trellis’ bent beneath the gift,
That accrued from nature’s thrift.
Sweet flowers raised their dewy heads,
And rare fragrance round me spread;
Fair Summer’s charms were everywhere,
Nor knew Winter’s grim despair.

Withal my thoughts would wander back,
Tread again the self-same track,
That led me to the fountain clear,
Whose drops filled my heart with cheer,
And robbed the past of all its pain,
Planting hope where it had lain,
Crushing the germ of discontent,
By the magic aid they lent.

Crystal drops whose phantom power,
Spanned the depth of that short hour;
And undenied, unknown, unseen,
Opened wide a mystic screen,
And gathered to each limpid breast,
The thorn that ’gainst my heart had
   pressed,
Leaving only to mark the place,
The scar they could not efface.
					HYACINTH.
March 30 1899.


[Column 1]
OBEDIENCE WITHOUT SEVERITY.

	(Read at the Mothers’ Congress in Salt
Lake City, Tuesday morning, April 11th,
1899.)
	Law is the governing force of the uni-
verse. If a man keeps himself in harmony
with nature, he must obey her laws; if he
enjoys citizenship in a country, he must
obey the laws of that country, and if he is
respected in his business relations, he must
adjust himself to the laws of the business
world.
	The necessity of obedience seems so self
evident that any discussion on that subject
would seem out of place. Nevertheless
there are persons who hesitate to compel
obedience fearing lest they might injure the

[Column 2]
child’s will power. But we think this is
not so. Too frequently where there is
strong will power displayed it is a mani-
festation of selfishness.
	Children do sometimes have strong
instinctive desires in the right direction;
therefore their motives should be most
cautiously considered. But it should be
kept in mind that there is a vast difference
between desirable will power and stubborn-
ness. If we would have our children con-
tented and happy themselves and if we
would make of them desirable associates, it
is imperative that we should have them
overcome blind and unreasonable stubborn-
ness. A stubborn, unconquered child is
sure to develop into a man so self-centered
and so determined to have his own way that
he will forego pleasures and even success
rather than retract, and will be as he was
when a child, his own greatest enemy.
	But this spirit of obedience so intimately
connected with peace, order and prosperity
and so beneficial to the young man in the
outer world comes only after long training
and unceasing effort in the home.
	It is here that his first ideas and im-
pressions are formed, and it is here that
he first learns to respect the rights of
others. However, this training in obedi-
ence should be pleasant to both parent and
child, it should result from a system of
kindness and love, rather than from one
of harshness; for while we aim to prepare
the child for his life’s work it is not less
important that the home be made pleasant
to himself and others.
	It is possible to train children into strict
obedience by violent methods; but a child
so trained will be obedient only through
fear; and when he assumes responsibility
over others he will use the same harsh
method. It is in this manner that tyrants
are made.—None are so tyrranical as they
who have been reared in bondage.
	Such a plan as described may produce
obedience; but it is obedience that is de-
structive to the life of the individual and
the home.
	If then we denounce obedience through
fear the question naturally arises,—“What
should be the motive prompting proper
obedience?” The right kind of obedience
is prompted not by fear but by love,
unselfishness, and a strong regard for the
rights of others. 
	Now we are confronted with another
question. We admit in the abstract that
love is the law which should govern our
effort, but how shall we put this thought
into practice?
	Educators say that the best way to
lessen evil and develop virtue is to begin
early—the earlier the better—to cultivate in
children desirable habits; that a good habit
well formed is the best fortification against
temptation. They even go further and say
that through the power of habit the possi-
bilities in moral training are infinite.
	We all know that habits formed in early
life are the most lasting; that those formed
in later years never attain the same stability;
therefore the mother should begin early,
and from babyhood to school age—a period

[Column 3]
wherein her influence is unopposed by any
outside one—she should work with per-
sistence and determination, so that by the
time the child is 6 or 8 years old the habit
of obedience will be thoroughly established.
	We have emphasized this thought be-
cause of the tendency of so many mothers
and guardians to say, “O, he’s the baby,
let him go,”—and thus they cultivate
habits entirely opposed to those they would
form.
	It will take time and patience to train the
infant or very young child to be obedient—
but less time and less patience, than it
takes to break up the habit of disobedience.
One writer even declares that it requires
more than four-fold the power to change a
habit, than to form one.
	Thus we would make habit building the
first step.
	In forming the habit of obedience in
children and in treating cases of disobedi-
ence mothers will find that there are many
methods of procedure; but she who gives
time, study and careful thought to this
subject will very soon conclude that she
will seldom need to resort to severe
methods.
	Bolton Hall says—“It is high time to
awake from sleep in things intellectual
as well as things spiritual; in things edu-
cational as well as in things material. We
have begun to deprecate either contempt or
neglect of the rights of man, but it has
hardly yet been admitted that children
have any rights which grown people are
bound to respect; so though we have ceased
to club women, we still beat children and
make the best excuse we can for our
brutality.”
	While this “beating process” is followed
up by many mothers of today, others are
spoiling their children by unwisely indulg-
ing them in every whim—a method which
fosters selfishness and like the rule with the
hard hand also makes tyrants.
	It would appear that punishment of some
sort is not to be avoided in this mortal
existence; but when it is necessary it should
be chosen wisely and be properly applied.
	Many parents are in favor of corporal
punishment because it requires LESS TIME
and brings partially desirable results—and
indeed the results are but partially desir-
able, for while it is natural to connect the
blow with the physical nature ONLY, the
harm done the child’s spiritual nature is
infinitely greater, for it makes obtuse and irre-
sponsive those fine and tender emotions 
upon which so much reliance must be
placed for future complete development. 
	A very small child who cannot reason
will perhaps profit by having his hands
spatted, but it seems plain that you can
teach a larger child nothing by beating him
“except that you are a bigger animal, and
as revengeful as he, and that a blow hurts
which he already knows.”
	We have admitted that punishment is
necessary and now we would state that
just punishment is just;—it is an irrevoc-
able law of nature.
	Nature stands as THE GREAT teacher
of humanity, and on this subject as on all


[Column 1]
others she has something to say. Many do
not understand the voice of nature and
either add an artificial punishment or some
corrective that in no way relates to the
offence. By way of explaining the first
thought we offer the following story: A
little boy who was forbidden to go into the
street alone was persistent in this action.
One day he came in contact with a horse
and cart and was knocked down but fortun-
ately was not injured. The mother seeing
his danger rushed out in the street and
when the frightened boy ran to meet her
she gave him a vigorous whipping.
	Now we ask was not the severe fright
from which the child suffered punishment
enough of itself? We think the natural
result of his disobedience was severe, and
sufficient to teach him his mistake; but the
punishment of his mother turned his
thoughts from it and very likely filled him
with malice and distrust.
	But I think I hear you say not all
offences are pursued to that issue where the
dire consequence is manifest. For instance
we take the familiar case of a child who
continually disregards his mother’s request
by going into the water. It may be of no
avail to tell him he will catch cold or take
some violent disease, for many children are
so blessed with health that these results do
not follow. In such a case depriving a
child of liberty by tieing him up or keeping
him in the house because he has disobeyed
the laws of liberty seems a more rational
method than whipping. Another illustra-
tion we think will serve to impress the
thought of rational punishment:
	A woman who had a large family of boys
and no girls made use of her boys in the
home. She appointed one—a lad of about
12 years—to take care of the wash tubs.
He was to put them in the cellar after
the washing and keep them there. She
explained what would happen to them
if they were left out in the sun, and gave all
the caution she thought necessary.
	However, not many days after she found
one of the tubs broken down. She did not
lose her temper and punish—she simply
told him he must try to set the tub up
again. After he had worked all the after-
noon he realized the graveness of his
neglect and was filled with regret.
	If this mother had inflicted a severe
punishment her son would very likely have
been filled with anger and would have felt
glad that her tub was destroyed.
	Those who discuss juvenile discipline
often attribute all the faults to children and
none to parents, but as we readily see that
the child is for the most part what his par-
ents have made him we do not hesitate
to say that much of the blame should go to
parents. The duties of the parent are
innumerable, but the first and most im-
portant of all, are those he owes to his
children and in this direction he should put
his best efforts.
	Perhaps the hardest and most beneficial
lesson for the mother to learn is the lesson
of self control. Some one has said that
a mother should be an angel and it seems
she would need to be if she were able
to control herself at all times. She cannot
be perfect in this respect but she can exert
herself toward this end, and by having
a definite purpose in view she can accom-
plish very much. The mother who does
this will find that she can coolly reason
when she is called upon to administer
punishment. She can look for the cause of
the disobedience and can decide on the

[Column 2]
proper punishment. She does not make
threats nor say fifty things she will re-
gret the next minute.
	On the other hand look at the mother
who knows no self control; she loses her
reason, whips, scolds, makes threats that
she never keeps and is a picture that
the child will always remember—yes and
imitate if he is ever left in control of baby
sister.
	It is this lack of self control that makes
a tyrant of the parent. A mother who
is thoughtful in dispensing reward or
punishment is a director—a sympathetic
adviser; while a parent who punishes be-
cause he feels irritable or angry is tyrrani-
cal. Parents who are swayed by differ-
ent emotions fall into many errors that tend
to make disobedient children.
	The mother should early establish her
authority—she should impress upon the
mind of the child that she has many re-
sponsibilities in caring for the home, that
she understands what is for the best of
all and more than all that she is the
authority and must be obeyed.
	There is nothing more desirable, as re-
gards the life of parents and children, than
that perfect confidence exist. And in order
to secure this confidence so desirable the
parent must be truthful. So often dis-
obedience is aggravated by parents who
disregard this law. It is sadly common
to hear mothers press children into obeying
by promising them results which they
know will never come. A mother should
be truthful and constant in all her dealings
with the child—if she tells him such a
consequence will follow a certain act
she should see that it does follow and that
it follows every time the act is committed.
	She should be firm but loving and
affectionate. If she says no she should
mean no. A mother who changes her
mind often, “who makes rules in haste and
repents of them at leisure, who treats an
offence with severity at one time and with
leniency the next, is laying up miseries for
herself and for her children.” Even if
a mother has a poor method it is better
to stick to it and be firm than to have
a good method and be changable. Lack
of firmness fosters the habit of coaxing—a
firm mother will seldom be annoyed in
this.
	When children make requests (or ask
for privileges) the mother should think
a moment before answering in order to
decide exactly in the right, for if she is
busy and worried, she is very apt to say
“no”—and on reflection find that the
request could as well as not have been
granted. But if she has said a thing she
should see that it is carried out at what-
ever cost; for it is better to deprive a child
of a pleasure than to first refuse him and
then give permission. Many enslave them-
selves by offering bribes and by threats.
Children should not be bribed into obedi-
ence—if once this habit is begun there
is no opportunity to stop and in time
children will not exert themselves in the
least degree unless they receive some re-
muneration. Threatening is also to be
avoided—a child soon learns that a THREAT
means nothing and pays little attention to it.
	A mother should be just and reasonable
—reasonable from her own standpoint and
from the standpoint of the child. Sbe
should never ask him to make promises
which she knows he cannot keep and
should not measure his judgment and
ability by her own.

[Column 3]
	In making requests of him she should be
polite, for if a reasonable request is made in
a polite way the mother is very apt to
be obeyed. In severe cases if it is necessary
to command she should do so—and with de-
cision but in no case should she nag.
	She should avoid asking a child to do a
thing when he is in a bad humor and
would just as soon refuse as to obey. If
she feels that he will refuse she should
not press him into disobedience—better
first divert his attention and thus avoid
an outbreak.
	There should be established between the
mother and child a standard of right and
upon this standard all their dealings with
each other should be based. She should
be conscientious herself and teach him to be
the same. It is much easier to be obedi-
ent to law because it is right than to
be obedient, because somebody has asked us
to be.
	The position of the child to the parents
is not unlike our position to God. The
child is placed in their care and is sub-
ject to their will and upon his conception
of their qualifications will be based his
faith in them. By a moment of reflection
it will be seen that our faith in God depends
entirely on our knowledge of His attributes
—we could not trust nor believe in a God if
He were without judgment, justice and
mercy; we could not have faith in Him
if He were varying in His action; neither
will the child have faith in a parent who
lacks these qualities—his faith in them
will be in proportion to the extent of their
perfection. Let parents then bear in mind
that if they would keep the faith of
their children they must so live that their
actions will appeal to the child.
	No doubt it occurs to many mothers
as they listen to the ideas advanced, that
they are very well as theories but will
not stand the test of practice. Let me say
to those mothers if any such be here that by
exerting ourselves in this direction much
more can be done than we may at first
think. In all cases the mother must use
her judgment. Each case will need some
special attention but the ultimate good
flowing from such patience and considera-
tion will be ample reward.
	The prophet uttered a truth that the
history of the world is ever emphasizing
when he said “obedience is better than
sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of
rams.”
	Obedience is the great law that the
universe is ever emphasizing. One who
does not obey this divine command written
on every page of nature’s book finds himself
at war with everything in the world; while
the man who grows up in obedience finds
himself in harmony with everything in the
world.
	At home, in the nation, in the church, he
discovers this thought dominating all.—
“The path of obedience is the only one
that leads to absolute and perfect liberty.
It is the fundamental law of the great truth
which shall make us free.”
	(MRS.) AMY BROWN LYMAN.


WOMANS EXPONENT


The General Society Daughters of the
Revolution have been obliged by the rapid
growth of the society to secure more com-
modious rooms for headquarters. They
now have two rooms in the Presbyterian
Building, 156 Fifth Ave., New York, that
are probably the handsomest occupied by
any patriotic society in the country.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
“EDUCATION AND MOTHERHOOD.”

	This is a day when much thought is ex-
pended and a great deal said upon the sub-
ject of education. The colleges have long
flourished for the higher education of man,
but now their doors have been thrown open
and woman is invited to enter there. She
can choose what she will be, minister,
lawyer, doctor, or any other calling that is
there taught, or that she naturally inclines
to.
	The arts and sciences have their admir-
ers and true devotees. Music charms the
minds of some and painting of others.
Theology claims some attention, and wo-
man is now a regularly ordained minister
of the Gospel; and why not since she is
more spiritual minded than man, and living
in her heart is the fire of love and devotion
for things human and divine. Thus wo-
man’s field has expanded, grown wider and
broader, but is she happier with all this
knowledge, all these dignified positions at
her command?
	Can office or emolument fully occupy her
heart, or cause the throbbing of tender
emotions? Can aught make up for the
loss of noble motherhood? Does not this
over advanced education have a tendency to
fascinate the mind and draw it away from
the true elixir of life, wifehood and mother-
hood? The question may be asked, should
girls be educated as much as boys? I
would answer yes, and if I could only edu-
cate a part of my family I would bestow the
most upon the girls. Why? Because they
have the moulding of the next generation in
their hands. They form the characters and
regulate the standard, either high or low, of
our future Statesmen, Presidents and
Governors.
	The teachings of the mother last forever;
indelibly they are stamped on the minds of
their children. This power of the mother
for good or ill is indescribable. Then how
should a woman be educated? For some
vocation in life either high or of prestige,
or the greater, grander mission to bear the
souls of men? Being a wife, holding that
sanctified position in the home, to be a
mother, a very queen in that world, where
all her subjects are her lovers. I advocate
the highest order of education, not that
alone contained in books, which is excel-
lent, useful and perhaps indispensable, but
the broader education of the heart; to under-
stand its language, and bring to perfection
the spiritual nature implanted therein. To
comprehend its whisperings, its desires for
a higher, fuller life.
	The mind cultivated alone can be likened
unto the beautiful, green oasis, amid a
desert of sand; banks of sand where the
footsteps of men are lost. Such green
spots are veritable gardens, beautiful to the
eye, but leaving them for the onward
journey of life, they are only vaguely re-
membered while plowing with heavy feet
the vast oceans of sand.
	But the heart, consider its beauty! A
garden where luxurious flowers bloom be-
neath a Southern sun; whose grounds roll-
ing and verdant, in. perfect order, are ex-
tending as far as the eye can reach. Groves
of trees, tall and stately, where the song
birds of summer trill their sweetest notes,
hopping from bough to bough, and twitter-
ing among the heavy leaves all the happy
day through. Yonder is a river, broad and
clear, slowly and peacefully winding its
way to the sea; the great sea that ever ab-
sorbs rivers unnumbered by its restless

[Column 2]
waves that perpetually wash on the shore.
	Thus the heart that is full of love, the
spiritual thoughts well developed, reaches
out for the land of glorious, sunny land-
scapes, and life as a river flows on and on
to Eternity’s sea, across which God, the
perfection of love, welcomes the weary
traveler home.
	All these feelings produce music in the
mother’s heart, thrilling her offspring with
holy emotions, and though they may drift
away from its melody, yet some chance
changing breeze may touch the chords and
they will vibrate, playing the tunes sung of
old by the mother, and her undying influ-
ence will again be felt. She may be sleep-
ing on the hillside, mountains and oceans
may separate the child from her resting
place, but the visions of youthful days will
arise, and again he will hear her loving
words and listen to her counsels. The love
of poetry also has a strong refining force,
touching other chords of melody awakened
by the words of inspiration, which flow into
the soul making all things glad and fair.
	I have known young men who spoke
disparagingly of the religious girl, choosing
one who is lively, vivacious, and withal a
chum of thoughtless youth. But they
should consider well before staking so much
of weal or woe upon this momentous choice.
	In whose hands would you entrust the
eternal welfare of your child? With the
giddy and frivolous, or the calm, serene
eye of faith, that clearly weighs life’s ac-
tions, determining a life beyond the bounds
of earth? That hears the voice of God in
the babbling brook, and the rustling of the
leaves of the forest.
	Solomon said of old “With all thy get-
ting, get understanding,” this is as true to-
day as when it was uttered. Should we
get education? Yes, but with it get under-
standing. Oh, daughters of Eve who
choose some profession for your life com-
panion have you thought of the bye and
bye? Of your barren lives, when you sit
alone and desolate, that you can only gath-
er husks when the reaping time comes, as
it surely must ere the sun goes down?
Mothers (there are many still of the old school)
be your daughters’ companion, teach them
there is nothing of earthly happiness, that
is not known when their babe first clasps
its tiny arms around their necks; and as
sweet as the songs of angels, their infant’s
first cry; while her very being trembles
with emotion when the prattler calls her
“Mother.”
	The days of book lore, to some extent
being over—her love directing the growing
ntelligence of the child—her knowledge
should be used in instructing the men and
women of the future. Should the mother
neglect her own mind, starve it that it bear
not precious fruit, because of these endear-
ing ties? No! assuredly not. The knowl-
edge stored in days of youth can be brought
forth from time to time, to enrich the
minds of the children. They must look up
to the mother feel that she possesses the
very acme of wisdom; then they are willing
and respectful subjects. Mothers live with
your children, answer all their manifold
questions, for as often as you say you don’t
know, just as often you lose a part of your
supremacy in your home kingdom. Must
you live a life at home, and one outside of
it? Yes! Must you retain and add to the
education of early years? Yes! 
	I call to mind an instance when I had
two sons in one of the higher, classes at
school, one being two years older than the

[Column 3]
other, though both in the same grade;
while working their mathematical problems
one evening together, they could not obtain
the correct answer to one that was rather
more difficult than the others. They tried
first one method then another, but always
with the same result. Then they appealed
to mamma. These were some of my
younger children, and as it was some thirty
years since my school days, I was fearful
that I had become rusty in some of these
things. After they had read the problem
over, I read it myself, then asked the
different methods they had used in trying
to solve it. It became clear to me that
they had not used the right rule, so I said
try the rule of seven. They immediately
went to work and the long desired answer
was obtained. Looking up at me admir-
ingly, one said to the other, “Mamma knew
didn’t she?” And a realizing sense came
to me of the different feeling they would
have had, had mamma not known.
	The education obtained in school days, is
only the foundation on which to erect the
life structure. As the stones rise higher
and higher on a building, they must be
polished more and more, the eyes of men
resting upon the surface as it rises to view.
	So men scan your life work, mothers,
noting its roundness, fullness or complete-
ness; for as your children attain to manhood
or womanhood, they display to a greater or
less extent the nature of the great oak that
bore them; and like branches they spread
out into the world, reaching heavenward, or
being of the earth earthly, showing weak-
ness and failing. But I must add the
judgment is not always a righteous one;
for perchance when you were weary and
resting in fancied security, an enemy
entered your garden, sowing thorns among
your choice wheat. Mothers be early and
late upon the watch tower, constantly over-
looking your own little garden plot. Will
you become weary? Yes, verily! Will
you always thus have to watch? No! For
the day comes, aye too soon, that they will
go forth into the great wide world leaving
you to rest on the battlefields of the Past.
	How much good has your early education
done in raising your sons and daughters
who today shine in the world? Has not
your heart beat warm and fast with thanks
to God, that you were thus well equipped
for the race of life ? Then to the knowl-
edge early obtained, how many glorious
principles, not then dreamed of, have been
added. Your views and thoughts have
widened and deepened until mellow with
years, your wisdom doth shine.
	Then educate the girls, not one sided, to
shine as butterflies in the world of fashion,
O, no, not that! Of all things imaginable
this is the most foolish and hollow—but to
be true, noble women, like Timothy’s
mother, Eunice, and grandmother, Lois,
whose faith was so well known to the
Apostle Paul.
	So that with all the advantages and edu-
cation of the 19th century, so nearly the
20th—you may never be shipwrecked from
God, who is the same yesterday, today and
forever. Let the office and position now
within the reach of woman, but serve as a
means to an end; that end being a higher
and nobler womanhood. Then this age so
fruitful in invention and progress, with the
rapid strides made for the elevation and
education of woman, will shine in the an-
nals of the world forever.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
Salt Lake City, Jan. 24, 1899.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 1, 1899.


PEACE MEETINGS.

	A letter recently received from Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, (whose name is well known
in Utah) recommends that women’s meet-
ings be held in the interest of peace and
arbitration on the evening of May 15, the
Czar’s Peace Conference having been set
for May 18. Mrs. Sewall further states
these meetings are to be held all over the
world. A Central Committee having been
formed including some representatives from
every country, largely, she states, through
the influence of Frau Professor Salenka of
Munich. Lady Aberdeen, the present
president of the great International Council,
is one of the committee.
	We are anxious to respond to Mrs. Sew-
all’s suggestions and to invite representa-
tives from all women’s organizations and
from all parties and sects to unite in this
meeting in Salt Lake City and elsewhere in
the State, to show our appreciation of the
efforts being made for peace among nations,
and that we are in favor of all difficulties
and differences being settled, if possible, by
arbitration.
	The desire and feeling on the part of the
committee seems to be “to reduce blood-
shed, to reduce the awful immorality that
always attends and follows war, and to re-
duce the awful expense of it.” These
sentiments make common appeal to all
hearts.
	We are hourly expecting to receive
other more definite suggestions in reference
to the meetings, but certainly prayers,
hymns and speeches bearing upon the sub-
ject of peace made by both men and wo-
men cannot fail in producing good and har-
monious feelings. Leading men and wo-
men already consulted on the subject are in
full sympathy with the movement.
	The first meeting of the International
Council after the formal opening on June
26, will be devoted to the subject of Inter-
national Arbitration, which shows the in-
terest this subject has awakened in the
minds of people of many nations and coun-
tries. Carefully prepared papers and dis-
cussion will awaken many more to the im-
perative need of a better method of settling
difficulties than going to war, with a view
to conquer or kill or both, and the effect
upon the world and upon society is most de-
basing in its tendency. With the enlight-
ment of the age should come a higher
sense of honor, and a more thorough under-
standing of the rights of all nations to a
government by its own people, or at least
the consent of the governed. But nations


are slow in coming to a knowledge of each
other’s rights as citizens of the world.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The article on the third page of this issue
entitled “Education and Motherhood,” was
prepared for a Department Meeting in
Washington, D. C., but as no such meeting
was held we have asked permission to pub-
lish it in the “Exponent.”) 
	The 31st Annual Convention of the
National Woman’s Suffrage Association
convened at Grand Rapids, Michigan,


April 27 to May 4, 1899. Miss Susan B.
Anthony will be present in person with her
devoted officers, vice president, secretaries
and so on, and the work they have out-
lined if undertaken and carried forward
will mark a heroic crisis in affairs vitally
emphazing human progress.
	A second letter from Mrs. Sewall,
American Member of Peace and Arbitration
Committee, gives more direct information
concerning the simultaneous meetings to be
held in the promotion of peace and justice
(instead of force) in International relations.
This meeting will mark an epoch in the
history of the world. They are to be held
in all the important towns of each country.
The countries that have already consented
are England, the United States of America,
Holland, France, Germany, Austria and
Japan many other countries are expected
to and probably will do the same. Salt
Lake City should certainly do the very best
to make the meeting in this famous city a
grand success. It will certainly be a
memorable and historic event, if pos-
sible let the women of Utah go down to
history as cooperating in this great femi-
nistic movement for the good of the whole
world.


INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
WOMEN.

	The International Council of Women
which will hold its Quinquennial session
in London, England, commencing June 26,
1899, will undoubtedly be the greatest and
most interesting gathering of women that
has ever been publicly convened.
	Women from all countries are expected
to be present, the countries that have al-
ready organized National Councils and
affiliated with the International Council are
the United States, Great Britain, Germany,
Sweden, Italy, Austria and Belgium; others
are organizing with the intention of affiliat-
ing in June at the meeting in London.
	Holland organized a National Council
March 15, at Utrecht, with delegates from
sixteen woman’s associations, and resolved
to apply for admission to the International
Council at the quinquennial in June. France
has been intending to organize for some
time past, and other countries are plan-
ning to do the same.
	The Council will have congresses in ses-
sion in several different places at the same
time, similar to the World’s Congress in
Chicago. All the places of meeting are
very popular, and Westminister Hall
which is, I believe, the headquarters for the
International Council, has never before
been opened to a woman’s assembly.
	Each National Council affiliated to the
International Council is entitled to two
votes, and at its business sessions the most
important questions concerning the largest
nterests of mankind as a whole and future
policies of the world, will be discussed by
some of the greatest minds of the age.
	Lady Aberdeen is the president and will
preside, and with a corps of officers commit-
tees and sub-committees have the superin-
tendence of this great Council and Congress.
	The social functions will be very elabor-
ate. Garden parties and receptions, re-
ception at Stafford House, garden party at
Pulham palace and lawn party at Gunners-
bury Park by Lady Rothschild are among
those mentioned. Some association of this
kind brings people into closer proximity
and social acquaintance than the formality
of meetings will admit of, and breaks the
continuous strain of mental exertion; for
when one hears so many good speakers and
papers dealing with such profound subjects,
it is a positive relief to have something now
and then in a lighter vein, that sort of equal-
izes the individual condition.
	It is to be hoped that women who can
afford the time and money will attend this
magnificent congress, where so much that
is being done will be known and better ap-
preciated forever after. Such opportunities
should be grasped and their benefits utilized
in the world’s great work of progress.


TO BRANCHES OF THE RELIEF
SOCIETY.

	(Republished by request, and permission
of President Lorenzo Snow.)
	Being very frequently receiving letters of
inquiry relative to duties, practices, privi-
leges, etc., of officers and members of the
Relief Society, and being unable to devote
sufficient time to answer individually, we
gladly accept the privilege extended by
Mrs. Wells to respond in general manner
through the columns of the “Exponent.”
	“Should a president of teachers be ap-
pointed in each branch?”
	It is better for small branches not to
appoint a president. In those the teachers
should report in the general meetings, and
keep no separate minutes. In every
branch the president of the organization
virtually presides over the teachers, and
presidents of teachers are needed only in
those branches where there is such accumu-
lation of work as to render it necessary
to relieve the presiding board.
	“Should the teachers’ minutes be read at
the general meeting?”
	All members who attend meeting should
be made acquainted with and have a voice
in all business transactions of importance in
both departments. No “change has been
made” in this respect.
	“Is it right for the sisters to raffle?”
	We say emphatically, no! Raffle is
only a modified name of gamble. Presi-
dent Brigham Young once said to me,
“Tell the sisters not to raffle; if the mothers
raffle their children will gamble. Raffling
is gambling.”
	Some say “What shall we do? We
have quilts on hand—we cannot sell them
and we need the means to supply our
treasury, which we can obtain by raffling,
for the benefit of the poor.” Rather let
the quilts rot on the shelves than adopt the
old adage: “The end will sanctify the
means.” As Latter-day Saints we cannot
afford to sacrifice moral principle to financial
gain.
	Let us investigate the subject:—Suppose
an article, quilt of other property, is put up


for raffle; twenty persons donate 25 cents
each; all hope to draw the prize, and only
one wins while nineteen who have each
contributed as much as the successful one,
gain nothing but disappointment, which is 
almost certain to arouse feelings of jealousy
to a greater or less extent.
	Why not donate 25 cents each to re-
plenish the treasury, as well as to run the
chances and only one succeed? And then
by mutual consent donating the article
or articles in question to some charitable
purpose, they prevent the cause of jealousy
and dissension—the same amount will go
to the treasury and no unworthy example
and no sacrifice of principle will stain their
record.
	“Should members of the Relief Society
go to the Bishops for counsel?”
	The Relief Society is designed to be a
self-governing organization: to relieve the
Bishops as well as to relieve the poor, to
deal with its members, correct abuses, etc.
If difficulties arise between members of
a branch which they cannot settle between
the members themselves, aided by the
teachers, instead of troubling the Bishop,
the matter should be referred to their presi-
dent and her counselors. If the branch
board cannot decide satisfactorily, an ap-
peal to the Stake board is next in order;
if that fails to settle the question, the next
step brings it before the General Board,
from which the only resort is to the Priest-
hood; but, if possible, we should relieve
the Bishops instead of adding to their mul-
titudinous labors.
	“Is it necessary for sisters to be set apart
to officiate in the sacred ordinances of wash-
ing, anointing and laying on of hands in
administering to the sick?”
	Is certainly is not. Any and all sisters 
who honor their holy endowments, not
only have the right, but should feel it a
duty, whenever called upon to administer
to our sisters in these ordinances, which
God has graciously committed to His
daughters as well as to his sons; and we
testify that when administered and received
in faith and humility they are accompanied
with almighty power.
	Inasmuch as God our Father has revealed 
these sacred ordinances and commited them
to His Saints, it is not only our privilege
but our imperative duty to apply them for
the relief of human suffering. We think 
we may safely say thousands can testify
that God has sanctioned the administration
of these ordinances by our sisters with the
manifestation of His healing influence.
	“What age is most suitable for young
lady officers?”
	The young should fill all official posi-
tions in the Young Ladies’ branch (ward)
Associations. No matter how unequal
they feel to the situation, if they possess
sufficient energy of character and the true
spirit of the Gospel, trust in God, they will
be sure to succeed.
				E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	Salt Lake City, September 12, 1884.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF
SOCIETY.

	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this city on Saturday, April 8,
1899, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Zina D. H. Young presiding. Presidents
Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba W. Smith
were also present.

[Column 2]
	Meeting opened with singing “Now
let us rejoice in the day of salvation.”
Prayer by President M. Isabella Horne.
Singing, “We thank Thee O, God for a
prophet.”
	President Young gave a few words of
welcome, rejoiced to see the dear faces
of the sisters who had come so far to enjoy
the blessing of the conference; testified that
the spirit of God had been with His ser-
vants to reveal His holy will to His 
people, and the society had the utmost
reason to be thankful and appreciate the 
blessings bestowed upon them in these
vales of the mountains.
	Roll called and minutes read and ac-
cepted, after which the secretary also read
the “In Memoriam” of the late President
Sarah M. Kimball, as recorded in the
Society Record.
	Prest. Bathsheba W. Smith bade all
welcome, prayed that we might have a
good time and our voices be so strong that
all in the house could hear, was glad to see
so large a congregation; the society was
for the sick, the needy and unfortunate,
if we lived up to the requirements of 
the organization we would accomplish
a great and good work.
	Prest. Young then asked all sisters in the
audience over forty years of age to stand,
and it was a great majority of all assembled;
she then asked all over eighty to stand and
five sisters arose; she then spoke concerning
Joseph the Prophet and the key of knowl-
edge turned for women. Sister Zina spoke
lovingly of the late Sister Kimball, one
of the honored members of the society, who
had passed away since our last conference,
wished her to be remembered; they had
been girls together in the days of Kirtland,
some of those associated with them in
the Church had lost the faith, even some of
the “Twelve,” she was proud of the faith-
ful sisters, and added, “The Lord will
not withhold His blessings from the faith-
ful, if we ask in faith,, there are many
mothers in Israel before me today, and 
may God help us all to be faithful. Amen.”
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde in a few brief
remarks reported Sanpete Stake, and al-
luded to the faithfulness of the sisters there,
and afterwards spoke in the gift of tongues
which was interpreted by Dr. E. S. Barney.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts next gave a
report of the nurses class which she had
been teaching under the auspices of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake, and
which had been a success and so help-
ful among the sick and suffering since they
had graduated in their training and com-
menced practise.
	Mrs. Priscilla J. Riter, superintendent of
the nurses’ class, then read a written ad-
dress giving much of the work of the
sick room in detail, which quite inter-
ested the audience in the systematic work.
	Prest. M. Isabella Horne thought there
was a larger number of sisters in attendance
than at any previous conference, in speak-
ing of our associating together and trying
to help each other she quoted the old saying
“The rebuke of a friend is better than
the kiss of an enemy.” Thought
we should not settle down and think 
all was well with us, Bishop Hunter had
said he could see a lethargy was coming
over the people, we must not fall asleep, we
must renew our faith and wake up to
the present conditions. Prest. Wilford
Woodruff had said “The sword was un-
sheathed, and the word had gone forth,”

[Column 3]
as foretold in the holy scriptures; obedi-
ence is heaven’s first law and order is
the second, we must abide by these, we
must examine and purify ourselves; let
us as a society store up wheat, the time 
is coming when we shall need it, and
the day spoken of when he who will 
not take up the sword against his neighbor
must needs flee to Zion for safety. Sis-
ter Horne added, she did not want to be
condemned for not keeping her covenants,
“we are all weak and frail, we want
more love and stronger faith in the Gospel.”
	Prest. Jane S. Richards spoke a few
words, alluded to the nursing class, what 
good they would accomplish, approved
of the work they were doing, was glad
to see so many present, while she was
speaking of Sister Riter coming forward
had thought of her father, hoped other
young women would be induced to take
part in the benevolent and charitable work,
it would be a blessing to them if they
would, she felt to have charity for all
who stood in need of assistance, no matter
who they were, they were all our Father's
children, the Savior said do good to those
who despitefully use you; we must have
greater love, love to do for all who are 
needy, sorrowing or unfortunate; it gave
her great joy to be of some service in
the great work.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p m. with
singing Doxology and benediction by Dr.
R. B. Pratt.
	Afternoon session: Meeting opened by
singing “O, say what is truth.” Prayer
by Prest. Rachel R. Grant. Singing “How
firm a foundation ye Saints of the Lord.”
	The first Stake called was Alberta, Can-
ada, reported by Sister Thomas, who spoke
of their good president, Sister Mary L.
Woolf, and of Sister Zina Y. Card as
a pillar of faith among the Saints there,
and referred to the sick being healed when
the sisters anointed and prayed for them;
they were also doing what they could to
assist in erecting a building in this city for
the General Society, bore a good testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	Prest. Young exhibited a piece of natural
colored silk made in St. George, and urged
putting out mulberry trees and raising silk
worms, that we may have silk to wear and
to dispose of, she had always tried to pro-
mote the silk industry and knew it would
prove a source of wealth if the people
would take hold of it and be diligent and
persevere.
	Prest. Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, related much in detail of the silk
industry in that locality, they had three
looms put up to weave silk that were doing
well, and wanted to purchase a ribbon
loom, they could make 50 per cent more on
ribbons, they expected now to do scouring
and coloring and not have to send it East
to be done; this industry will give employ-
ment to the young people that they may
earn their own living. We are told to orna-
ment ourselves with the workmanship
of our own hands; we use the Japanese
 reels. The bounty on cocoons has been
a great blessing to old and young. In
reporting the Stake the speaker said, “We
have 18 branches and 614 members 
enrolled, we travel 400 miles to visit and
have no railroad, we go 100 miles to visit
three settlements; the railroad is in pro-
gress of building now; the Lord is opening
our way, Sister McDonald is making artifi-
cial flowers, very beautiful, and we have a 
good shoe factory and other industries.”


[Column 1]
	Sister Mary E. Cluff, one of the “aids”
in St. Joseph Stake, Arizona, spoke for the
Relief Society of that Stake, said she
thought their president and counselors
equal to the work, and the society was
in good condition, everything greatly for-
warded under Prest. Kimball, were going
to build an elevator for grain; they were
all trying to be Latter-day Saints, and
to start home industries.
	Maricopa Stake, Arizona, represented
by Sister Bergen, an “aid,” she was proud
of the society, they had 6 branches, had
lately been reorganized and felt they should
be able to advance, their’s was a semi-
tropical climate, they had not been able
to keep wheat from weevil until the Indians
taught them how to keep it in mud huts
sealed up. Prest. Hakes had been very
sick and could not come to the conference,
they had a new branch started, the “Pine.”
“The climate is two months in advance
of Utah, grain growing verdure every-
where, it is a good country for silk, we
have mulberry trees planted and intend
to push the silk industry.” Referred to
the nursing class in which she was much
interested, thought all the branches should
have the instruction, it is a labor of love,
had herself some experience in nursing.
	Bannock Stake, Idaho, was represented
by the secretary, Miss Millie Campbell, the
president, Mrs. Mary A. Call, had visited
Salt Lake at the October conference, in one
society in their county the president had
only been absent from the meeting once in
seven years, speaker bore a good testimony,
felt the Stake officers were new to the work
as they were only recently called to preside.
	Box Elder Stake was represented by
Prest. Susanna P. Booth, had been recently
reorganized because of the death of the
beloved president, Sister Olivia Wider-
borg. Sister Booth made an excellent brief
report and expressed a desire to press on-
ward in the good work in which so many
noble women were engaged, and bore a
good testimony.
	Fremont Stake, Idaho, reported by
Elizabeth Atkinson, “aid,” as the president
could not come, the president and aids had
visited all the Stake and encouraged the
sisters to be diligent, had over 1,700 bush-
els of grain stored up, and were striving to
live good and pure lives devoted to good
works.
	Los Angeles branch, California, reported
by Prest. Elizabeth Woollacott, the society
was first organized by Prest. E. H. Nye,
and it had done much to strengthen and
help the sisters. “Our teachers go out and
visit families two by two, we live far apart,
but we are progressing and gathering in
some means, we have had no poor only
exceptional cases, and therefore we have
used our means to purchase books, etc.”
They had a bazar and accumulated some
money with the disposal of articles; good
people have come to a knowledge of the
work, she had herself been a member of
the Church 48 years, bore a faithful testi-
mony.
	San Francisco branch represented by
Sister Harriet Nye, who gave a very good
account of the work in that city, and
she spoke of the society organized in Sacra-
mento and San Diego. The speaker re-
ferred to the Mission house in San Francis-
co as a home and resting place for the
Saints who visit that city and for the
traveling Elders, and spoke enthusiastically
of the joy she felt in her labors in minister-
ing to those who come from time to time;

[Column 2]
she delighted in the work of the Lord and
in this labor of love.
	Prest. Lucy Grant reported Woodruff
Stake, it had only been organized last June,
1898, she had visited some of the branches
and was kindly received, she felt very new
to the work, but was anxious to do her
duty, and had found all the sisters willing
to assist and help the work along.
	Prest. Eliza Oram of Pocatello Stake,
Idaho, stated that the Stake was organized
last August, had visited all the branches
and found there was a good average at-
tendance of members, and there were many
good, faithful sisters, they had given liber-
ally to missionaries, had stored considerable
wheat and owned some granaries, they had
responded in four wards to the ten cent
fund and more would give, some sisters
live ten miles from a post office; she desired
to take advice and counsel from those who
presided, felt all the poor were well taken
care of.
	Wayne Stake, represented by Sister Julia
Blackburn they were encouraging young
women to join the society, they were
planting thousands of mulberry trees and
cuttings, caring for the poor and for the
sick, storing grain, building society halls;
they had many widows among them, their
president was a very humble woman who
visited the sick and all who needed comfort,
gave an excellent report. 
	Apostle F. M. Lyman who was present
in the stand responded to President Young’s
invitation to address the sisters; he said
many excellent things and gave much
valuable counsel, which was greatly appre-
ciated by the sisters who labor in the
society the speaker expressed his pleasure
in meeting with the sisters and said he, felt
it was the first and choicest section of the
Church; he had met with 74 sisters in
Tooele on Relief Society day, March 17,
and felt the day would be held sacred in
the future, thought every married wo-
man should be enrolled in the Relief So-
ciety, there should be no exception, we
should make the society popular, it is a
great thing to be registered, this society
ought to be so popular that not one woman
should be left off, there are many engaged
in this work now, but there is room for
many more, and we want to see
as many as can possibly be enlisted in
this good work and the Lord will bless
them, follow after the Priests and Prophets,
“we love the sisters and we love the Relief
Society, no section of the Church receives
such commendation as does the Relief
Society, I find it so in all my travels.”
Apostle Lyman said he came laden with
the blessing of President Lorenzo Snow
to Sister Zina, and all the sisters, they
have his love and confidence, the speaker
then blest all assembled in the name of
Jesus.
	Sister L. L. Greene Richards spoke of
her visit in Chicago, her meeting with
the sisters of the Relief Society, wanted
the sisters to remember them in their pray-
ers, Sister Rosa Smith of Nephi is presi-
dent of the Relief Society in Chicago.
	The secretary, Sister E. B. Wells, gave
out some notices of meetings, etc., and
spoke of the Relief Society in Omaha in
Denver, in Pueblo and in St. John’s,
Kansas, she also presented at the request of
the president of Panguitch Stake, the resig-
nation of Sister Barbara Myers, president
of the Relief Society of that Stake, it
was moved and seconded that she be
honorably released and that the assembly

[Column 3]
give her a vote of thanks for her faith-
ful service for many years, the vote was
unanimous. The speaker also alluded
briefly to the recent visit of the sisters
to the National Council of Women in
Washington, especially the Committee
work.
	Prest. Richards felt we had been greatly
blest in the conference, rejoiced in the
reports but realized we never had time
to hear from all, which she regreted, would
like a conference of several days, that
all might have a chance to speak, especially,
the distant ones, Sister Young feels she
is a mother to all the Relief Society. Sister
Richards sustained Brother Lyman in say-
ing all women should join the Relief
Society, young women should join, they
need it, they will learn to be liberal and
charitable in this organization; it need
not interfere with the young ladies meet-
ing in their own association the speaker
approved of boys attending these meetings,
then when they go on missions they can
give instructions. “We do not know what
is before us; I would rather feed my spirit
than my body, feel rested after a good
meeting.” Regreted that we could not
continue the conference two or three days
and get all the young folks to join us;
spoke lovingly to those from a distance.
	Prest. Young blest the sisters and prayed
they might have retentive memories, and
said, “May we be fit temples for the Holy
Spirit to dwell in, carry home the spirit of
the Lord, be punctual in your daily prayers
and you will never grow weary in the
good work, and may you live to the age of
a tree. Amen.”
	Conference adjourned until next Oc-
tober. Singing, “O, my Father Thou that
dwellest.” Benediction by Prest. Sarah J.
Cannon.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Julia Marlow is to speak at the meeting
of the Woman’s International Council in
London, on “Women on the Stage.”


A SUCCESSFUL CELEBRATION.

	The minutes of the 24th ward Relief
Society, March 17, 1899, Margaret Night-
ingale presiding. The entertainment given
by the members of the 24th ward Relief
Society in honor of the first organization
which was organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, was a success in every way. Opened
by singing “The spirit of God like a fire
is burning.” Prayer by Brother Allen.
	The following sisters bore their testi-
monies to the truth of the work of God;
Sisters Nightingale, Duncanson, Water-
fall, Attley and Keller. Brother Gill spoke
upon the good work the society was en-
gaged in, that the Lord would bless
one and all in their noble work.
	Delicious refreshments were served by
Sisters Gill and Ames with their numerous
aids. All seemed to enjoy themselves
and a good spirit prevailed. Twenty seven
new names were given in to become mem-
bers of the society. About $8.00 was
taken in, the admission being ten cents
$6.00 went to the General Board to help
defray traveling expenses of delegates to
the National Council and other neces-
sary expenses and obligations pertaining
to Relief Society work. The members
of the society were all there.
	MAGARET NIGHTINGALE, Pres.
	NELLIE A. MORVER, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A  FLOURISHING BRANCH.

San Diego, April 10, 1899.
	In this far off, beautiful southern city
of between twenty and twenty six thousand
inhabitants, there is a little band of Saints
organized, numbering probably thirty five
souls, all told.
	Truly they feel to rely upon the gener-
ous promise made by Christ, that “where
a few meet together in His name, there
He will be also,” and thus far the people
have received an abundance of the Holy
Comforter to inspire them with a deter-
mination to serve the Master in defiance of
the alluring snares lain in their pathway by
Satan.
	Such determined effort is most gratifying,
and is another evidence that the injunction
laid upon the missionaries to ‘preach the
Gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue
and people,” thereby gathering out from
the nations of the earth the honest in heart,
and all those who comprise the house of
Israel, is being literally fulfilled. That the
honest in heart are being gathered is
evinced by the strenuous efforts made by
those converted to live up to the mandates
of their faith. Such anxious desire to com-
ply with all religious obligations proves the
sincerity of the soul, and it is decreed that
“by their works ye shall know them.”
	Charles Hoag, president of the San
Diego branch of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, is a man very capable
of the position, being full of faith, humility,
kindness and good principle, and an ex-
ample of diligence in the performance of his
duties.
	The Relief Society is under the able
management of Sister Amelia Jewell, at
whose home the sisters convene twice a
month, for the purpose of testifying of
God’s goodness and blessings, and to lend
themselves physically for the relief and
succor of those in need.
	About ten juveniles comprise the Prim-
ary, controlled by Sister Anna Burhorn.
Every Sunday afternoon their little voices
are raised in song and verse, striving to
excel each other in the performance of their
little duties.
	The M. I. A. is one of the most attrac-
tive features of religious worship, having
the mutual support and assistance of old
and young, which adds greatly to the in-
structiveness and interest so necessary to
success. President William Hunt is very
energetic, and anxious to make the associa-
tion merit the name given it, that of
“Mutual Improvement.”
	Indeed the grand impetus which actuates
the proper living of all true followers of
Christ, that of at last receiving His divine ac-
knowledgement, “Well done,” sheds its
soul-inspiring influence among the few
here, as well as those in all the world, who
live righteously. With such a stimulus to
obviate the contrary influences so prevalent,
it is not presumptuous to say their efforts
will prevail, and their hearts be gladdened
by the glorious plaudit which reaches the
ears of the faithful only, “Thou art of my
kingdom.”
		RHODA CELESTIA NASH.


NATIONAL WOMAN’S RELIEF
SOCIETY.
	Although this Society is philanthropic
and charitable in character, yet during the
last few years the tendency has been in a
larger degree towards practical measures in
caring for the needy and unfortunate, real-
zing it is better and more uplifting to cre-
ate work and give employment (whenever
possible) than to bestow charity. With
this object in view the society fosters in-
dustries suitable to its circumstances and
practicable to localities. The silk industry
is well adapted to many parts of this west-
ern country, and Utah silk especially is of
fine texture and durable quality. In places
remote from manufactories, reeling and
weaving silk from native cocoons has been
made quite remunerative. In newly settled
districts where sheep raising is the princi-
pal source of revenue, carding, spinning
and weaving (as in early pioneer days) is
helpful to the working classes, and is en-
couraged by the society. There are many
women who love housewifery even to the
minutest detail of primitive work, and who
spin, and weave and declare the stockings
made at home (even silk ones) wear much
longer than those manufactured by mach-
nery.
	Since February, 1895, when our last re-
port was made to the Council in Washing-
ton, D. C., considerable material work has
been done; more halls for meetings and
society purposes, houses for the aged and
helpless, also granaries have been built and
dedicated with appropriate ceremonies for
the purpose designed, also large quantities
of grain have been stored for a time of need.
Mulberry trees have been planted on land
owned by the society, and various other
improvements made in the interest and wel-
fare of the organization. Quite recently
the society has established a system of
charitable nursing which is working ad-
mirably. Salt Lake county, which in its
limit contains fifty three branches with
over three thousand members, has taken
the initiative in this matter of trained
nurses by regular physicians, under the
auspices of the Relief Society, with the
understanding that the nurses give a cer-
tain proportion of time and service as com-
pensation for their education, under the
direction of a competent superintendent
who will supervise the entire corps of
educated nurses. Each branch society
will have on hand emergency boxes con-
taining such articles as are essential for use
in the sick room, and will also furnish
medicine and nourishment as required.
Other counties and localities it is expected
will follow this example until throughout
this benevolent society there will be no lack
of trained nurses for the sick who are not
able to pay high prices for professional help.
	This society is so perfectly organized that
it is comparatively easy to carry out any
plan formulated by the General Board,
though each respective branch society has
control of its own local affairs and property;
having its own board of officers under the
supervision of a Stake Board similarly or-
ganized, and to which branches make regular
semi-annual reports and the Stake Board of
officers make annual reports to the General
Board; thus there are divisions and sub-
divisions of the society, which consists at
present of thirty thousand members (30,000)
and more than six hundred branches (600)
scattered through this and other countries,
and on the islands of the sea.

[Column 2]
	The annual report for the year 1898
from January 1, to December 31, gives
14,400 meetings held, 180 conferences, be-
sides fairs for exhibition of various articles,
concerts, entertainments and lectures of a
helpful and instructive character. Women
speakers as missionaries duly authorized to
teach and to preach visit the organizations
in their meetings and conferences from
time to time, and through this means and
the official organ of the society, the Wo-
man’s Exponent, also by correspondence,
the officers at headquarters are kept en rap-
port with the affairs of the entire organiza-
tion. The society has in contemplation,
and is making preparation to build (as soon
as sufficient means is obtained by voluntary
donation) in Salt Lake City a large hall for
society purposes, meetings, conferences,
congresses, lectures, etc., with a bureau of
information and committee rooms.
	The society has been and is a veritable
school of instruction in higher methods of
advancement along the lines of progress,
and always in the foremost rank of social
and moral reform and the betterment of the
human race, never, however, losing sight
of its first main object, the best care of the
sick, the needy, the afflicted and the un-
fortunate; to visit the widow and the father-
less, to administer comfort and consolation
as well as temporal relief to physical wants,
to see that none are left to suffer within its
reach; to encourage habits of industry and
economy; to give a special care to those
who have not had proper training for life
and its experiences, and to care sacredly for
the dying and the dead; to minister in
tenderness to the lonely (however lowly)
when death is near, and to comfort the sor-
rowing and afflicted in times of grief and
mourning; and to perform all these kindly
deeds in a spirit of grace and heavenly
charity, in fact to cultivate a higher stand-
ard of excellence, mentally, morally and
spiritually, also to observe the laws of life
and health so wisely and well, that future
generations born under better conditions
may even live, not only a hundred years,
but to the age of a tree, as has been
prophesied.
					E. B. W.


The rooms now occcupied by the General
Society Daughters of the Revolution as
headquaters in the Presbyterian Building
are fitted with paneled oak and inlaid
floors, and are decorated in buff and blue,
the colors of the society.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Semi-monthly meeting held April 1, 1899,
with President M. I. Horne presiding.
Singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Counselor E. Webb. Singing, “O,
say what is truth.” Minutes read and
approved.
	President Horne said she was pleased
to meet with the sisters again, as she
had not been able to be present for so long.
Thought we needed to live near unto
the Lord, the adversary was trying hard
to creep into the hearts of the people. We
must maintain our integrity to the truth
and be faithful and true. The young peo-
ple were being tried today, there were
many who had not been tried among
us, the children had grown up with such
abundant blessings, they had not been
tried as those who came across the plains
and met those hardships. We should
be careful of the reading matter we give
our children. When the people keep the
commandments of God He always blesses
them abundantly. We should prepare for
the coming of the Son of Man, not be like
the five foolish virgins; we must be united
not be fault finding, cultivate union and


[Column 1]
love among us, seek the Lord and cling
unto Him. We have a great deal to do
let us not be found wanting. Don’t for-
get to pray, we can then have the power of
discernment and will know what our duties
are. “I do wish to raise my voice in
warning to those who are going aside,
but those who need the warning are not
present.” She exhorted all who were
present to use their influence to help others.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young: “I feel as if
I were looking upon the Lord’s jewels.
There is a strength in the Saints coming
together, for we need spiritual food; the
way to store up spiritual food is to come to-
gether, in that way we become strong
in integrity and build a firm foundation. I
rejoice to see the sisters, I can bear testi-
mony of the work of God. It has now
been 63 years since I embraced the Gospel
and I have always thanked the Lord for
it.” Prayed God to bless all.
	Sister Armeda Young said she knew
we each could influence those around us for
good or evil; she knew by persevering that
we gained strength; she hoped she would
never be turned from the truth and desired
to live to do all the duties the Lord re-
quired of her.
	Sister Irvine said she did not think she
could tell any one what a blessing these
meetings had been to her, they always
built her up and gave her strength to
do her duties. Spoke of the visit of our
sisters to the National Council and how
they were blessed of the Lord, said it
was only another proof to her that the
Lord will help us to fight our battles.
	Sister Barnes spoke of the goodness
of the Lord in permiting her to be one
of this people and of the lesson she had
learned by passing through trials, of
the necessity of our speaking in praise of
one another and in this way building
each other up. Felt full of the spirit of the
Lord, hoped the Lord would help us to
hold on to the rod of iron.
	Sister Tora Hafen said she needed a
blessing and desired to receive one here.
	Sister Harriet Ann Badger had learned
to love the sisters present, all seemed fami-
liar as she had been here so often. Felt
we must draw nearer together, we must not
find fault with each other. The Lord had
blessed her abundantly and had given her
a great testimony.
	Sister Paul knew that holy angels were
here, the Lord blessed her by day and
by night, she tried to influence for good in
building up the Church, was the only one
of her father’s household that was in the
Church, but she had been permitted to
work in the Temple. The Lord had given
her the gift of tongues, she had had
promises through this gift that had been
fulfilled.
	Sister Emily Stevenson knew that the
Lord would hear and answer prayers,
spoke of the healing of herself through
the prayer of her son.
	Sister Shoenfeltd thanked her Heavenly
Father that she was privileged to be a
member of this Church, spoke of the
promises of Brigham Young to the Saints
and how they were fulfilled in her behalf.
	Sister Nightingale said words could not
express the joy she felt in thus mingling
with her sisters. Sister Maxwell spoke
of the blessings of prayer and the power
little children have with God. Sister
Fisher spoke in tongues, the interpretation
was given and was very comforting.
	President Horne said there would be

[Column 2]
a conference before we met again, hoped
we would be obedient to those placed over
us. Sister Bond and Sister Wyler both
bore testimony, speaking of the gift of
tongues.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, “This God is the God we adore.”
Benediction by Julia S. Woolley.
				J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U.W. P. C.

	The regular monthly meeting of the
U. W. P. C. was held in the “Exponent”
office, Friday evening, March 31, 1899.
Prayer by Mrs. Doolan, after which the
secretary called the roll, responses being
given by quotations from Cowper. By re-
quest of Mrs. Ruth M. Fox, she was per-
mitted to read her interesting paper on Cur-
rent Events previous to the business. The
subject of having one special evening for
the subject “Cliff Dwellers” was discussed,
but it was decided to have Mrs. Lawler
read Mrs. Rhodes’ (who was out of the
city) paper that evening. It proved of
great interest to all present, discussion fol-
lowed. The secretary then read a com-
munication from the free traveling library
committee acknowledging the receipt of one
dollar from the Press Club; one from Mrs.
Lulu Lee Stiehl suggesting the appoint-
ment of a delegate to the Mothers’ Assem-
bly. Mrs. L. D. Alder was elected a dele-
gate. Mrs. Margaret A. Caine was re-
appointed a delegate to the Council of
Woman’s Clubs. The regular program
was postponed for an evening with the
“Cliff Dwellers,” the time and place to be
determined later. The meeting then ad-
journed.
			AIMEE C. SCHILLER, Sec.


ACADEMY EXERCISES.

WEBER STAKE.
	It may be interesting to those readers of
the “Exponent” who are laboring for
the uplifting of woman and the betterment
of the race, to learn something of the labors
of Sister Hannah Sorensen during the past
winter.
	She is an earnest worker among her
students and as usual much good has been
derived from her teachings. Although her
classes have not been large they have been
appreciated, and the seeds of purity she has
sowu in the hearts of the people of the
Weber Stake Academy, where she has been
engaged as special instructor to the young
ladies, as well, as those sisters from the
surrounding settlements who have attended
her lectures, will in future years redound to
her honor.
	The following is the program of the
closing exercises held in the hall of the
Weber Stake Academy, Friday evening,
March 31, 1896, by the combined classes of
Sister Sorensen: Introductory remarks,
Miss Cora Wilson “Woman’s Social Con-
dition of Today,” Miss Emily Tanner;
“Preparation for Marriage,” Miss Sarah
Dye; “Duties and Obligations of Wives to
Husbands,” Miss Ida Ferrin; “Training of
Children,” Miss Susie Beecroft; “Hygenic
Cooking,” Miss Eillie Smuin; “Dress,”
Miss Marguerite Thomas.
	All of the above were in the form of well
prepared papers, and exhibited great care
and a thorough knowledge of the subjects.
	A beautiful poem, “Build Well,” was re-
cited by Miss Lottie Heninger, and an


original poem addressed, to Sister Sorensen
and written by Miss Nellie Beecroft was
read by Miss Lovina Griffin.
	Remarks on the work done by Sister
Sorensen were made by Miss Milla Stevens,
Miss Sarah Larkin and Mrs. O. M. Drumi-
lor.
	Apostle Franklin D. Richards commented
on the papers which had been read, and
expressed his approval of the work. Stated
that the truth imparted had been of the
grandest and purest character.
	Senator F. J. Cannon and Prof. Richard
T. Hoag both paid a high tribute to the
teacher, the students and the work. Prof.
Hoag also read a beautiful poem of his own
composition which we hope will ere long
appear in the “Exponent.”
			NELLIE BEECROFT.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit, it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest'savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the.bank
	we have, opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit marpied
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired. 
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. l-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St..
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.

TIME TABLE IN EFFECT MARCH 19, 1899.
ARRIVE.
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis, Kansas City
	and Denver..............................................................3:30 a.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley, Portland, Butto and San
	Francisco.................................................................8:53a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha and Denver...3:03 p.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley and San Francisco..............7:20 p.m.
**From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete and Intermediate
	points.......................................................................9:35 a.m.
From Tintic, Mercur and Intermediate points.................6:30 p.m.
*From Tooele and Terminus...........................................6:00 p.m.
DEPART.
For Ogden, Park City, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, Kan-
	sas City and St. Louis.............................................7:00 a.m.
For Ogden, Cache Valley and Intermediate points.........8:00 a.m.
For Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points....................7:30 a.m.
For Ogden, Denver, St. Louis, Chicago, San Francisco.6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Portland, San Francisco....................9:45 a.m.
For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and Frisco.........................5:30 p.m.
For Tooele and Terminus................................................7:45 a.m.
	**Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays
	*Dally except Sunday., 
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall,
Second South Street.

S. W. ECCLES,					D E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager. 				Gen. P. and T. Agent
				W. H. BANCROFT.
		Vice President and Gen’l Manager.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 27.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1899. No. 24.


CONTENTS:
   Universal Peace Meeting—May Wright Sewall.
Daughters of the Revolution—Mabelle Snow.
Anniversary Syracuse—Maria Cook. Fillmore
Celebration—I. E. Robison. Items of Interest—
R. M. F. Resolutions. Trip to the South. An
Appeal. The National Council of Women. Anni-
versary at Haden, Idaho—M. G Smith. Reaper’s
Club—J. A. Druce. Incorporation. President
Young’s Birthday at Saltair—L. L. G. R. Appeal
From Clara Barton. Call for Peace Meeting.
   	EDITORIAL:—A Hopeful Outlook. The Peace
Conference. Dr. Talmage’s New Book. A Social
Afternoon
	POETRY:—The Day of Peace—Lydia D. Alder.
America—Lucy A. Clark.


THE DAY OF PEACE.

Hail gentle dawn, refulgent day of peace,
When cannon’s roar and demon war shall cease;
And all the lands afar, from o’er the sea,
Clasp sister hands, in sweet tranquility.
Where coldness reigns, may warm love softly
	breathe,
And friendship’s band more closely weave,
Peace reigns, angels in shining robes of white,
All sanctified behold the longed for sight;
Broad rivers sing through the restful vales,
Repea[-]ing o’er such happy peaceful tales.
No more to hear the suff’ring wounded cry,
Nor see the loved one, moaning sink and die;
Nor pity hide her tearful, heavy eyes,
Away from heaven’s blue and sunny skies,
And Earth, dear Mother Earth, to drink no more
Her children’s blood, nor wrap them in their
	gore;
No more to tremble, nor groan aloud for them,
But brothe[-]s greet 'mong all the sons of men.
II.
Peace, peace, let deadly, cruel war be o’er,
Nor armies stand, a menace as before;
With joy we hail thee, Millenial day;
Thrice welcome, too, we’ll own thy gentle sway;
Foul Hate banished from the earth shall be;
Hail love, sweet love, and priceless charity.
And thus a happier, holier time shall come,
To bless the wide world o’er from sun to sun;
The lowly Nazarene triumphant then,
'Peace, peace on earth, good will and love to
	men,"
The passing ages still those words, repeat;
Repentant world, bow humbly at His feet.
"Peace; peace, My peace I ever leave with you,
Do right to ev’ry other and be true;
Take My yoke upon you, My burden’s light,
Love links all the world with a chain so bright.
From o’er the sea shall nations cry in vain?—
To God, ascends the cry of myriads slain.
III.
O, give us peace, let benedictions come,
To soothe the heart of ev’ry mourning one;
The breezes catch the anthem, whispering
	peace;
The birds will chant, their melodies increase,
Flowers will raise their dainty heads on high,
In joy for ne’er again will soldiers die.
America’s true daughters, speak today,
Implore this dawn of peace, turn war away;
To our Father’s God humbly bend the knee,
Cleanse our earth from blood, from war let us
	be free.
LYDIA D. ALDER.


Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson spoke be-
fore the Political Equality Club of Cam-
bridge on Wednesday, April 26, and for
the Walt Whitman Fellowship of Boston
on April 27. She sailed for Europe May
4 by the First Bismarck of the Hamburg
line.


UNIVERSAL PEACE MEETINGS.

	An International Committee of Women
has been formed, whose first task is the or-
ganization of peace meetings to be held in
all parts of the world on the eve preceding
the assembly at the Hague of the Czar's
Conference. Frau Professor Solenka, of
Munich, an ardent advocate of international
arbitration on the Continent, is one of the
most active promoters of the International
Committee. Frau Solenka is finding in the 
International Council and in the National
Councils affiliated therewith, instruments
already formed which may be utilized for
peace propagandism. The present plan is
through officers of the International Coun-
cil, presidents of National Councils, Local
Councils, and of other organizations of wo-
men, to arouse women to take the initiative
in arranging a programme, and organizing
peace meetings to be held in their respec-
tive communities on May 15.
	Only a general outline of the programme
can be suggested for the proposed meeting.
This outline must be subject to modifica-
tions dictated by local conditions.
	First: It is suggested that the appeal and
invitation of the Czar shall be read, and ex-
pounded with fairness to the generous
motives that must be ascribed to him.
	Second: Let an historical statement be
prepared showing the attempts that have
been made to reduce warfare and to re-
place militarism by civil adjudication.
	Third: Let brief speeches be made, each
upon a single aspect of war; for example,
the economic questions involved in it, the
moral and social effects of war, etc.
	To my own mind nothing could be more
profitable or more inspiring than a half
dozen three minute addresses on patriotism,
which shall discuss the subject from differ-
ent points of view. Whatever one’s atti-
tude towards expansion, whatever one’s
own opinions upon the questions involved
in the war with Spain and in the present
campaign in the Philippines, there can be
no doubt that the mind of the average
American citizen would be shocked by the
advocacy of the principles underlying
militarism. There was probably never a
period in human history when so large a
proportion of civilized mankind believed in
the influence of thought and sympathy.
Successful experiments with wireless tele-
graphy win from the public mind a friendly
attitude towards efforts to uphold and
strengthen the Conference of The Hague,
by meetings held simultaneously through-
out the world in behalf of the purpose, to-
wards the accomplishment of which the
Czar’s Conference may be considered the
first practical step.
			MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.


DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.

UTAH DELEGATION TO THE LATE CONVEN-
TION.
	The delegation from Utah to the con-
vention of the Daughters of the Revolution,
held at Philadelphia, was as follows: Miss
Julia Farnsworth, proxy for the regent;
Miss Emily Cannon, now in Boston, proxy
for the vice regent, and Miss Mabelle Show,
delegate lor the society. Miss Emma
Hatch of Heber City accompanied the dele-
gation.
	The party left Salt Lake City on the
evening of April 15th, on the R. G. W.
railroad. The journey was exceedingly
pleasant, the young ladies receiving much
attention and many favors from the rail-
road officials. The delegation reached
Washington on Wednesday, April 19th,
where three days were spent in sight see-
ing. The places of interest visited were
the Capitol building, Library Of Congress,
Smithsonian Gardens, National Museum,
Agricultural building, Medical Institute,
Corcoran art gallery, Washington monu-
ment, treasury, state war and navy depart-
ments, the White House, Mt. Vernon,
Arlington and Alexandria.
	We left for Philadelphia on Saturday
evening. On arriving there we were soon
comfortably located at the Stratford hotel,
the D. R. headquarters. A few moments
after having been shown our rooms we
were made happy by a call and most
cordial greeting from Mrs. Louisa D. Galli-
son, secretary general, who had noted our
arrival on the hotel register. She escorted
us to the parlor to present us to the presi-
dent general, Mrs. Henry Sanger Snow,
and associate officers, who received us with
warm expressions of welcome, establishing
most friendly relations from the start.
On Sunday afternoon services were held
at the old Swedish Church, where the Sons
and Daughters of the Revolution and
Colonial Dames attended in a body. The
evening was quietly passed in the parlors of
the hotel in conversation with new friends.
	The first regular session convened on
Monday at 10 a. m. Each State represented
had been appointed a section and banner,
the delegates taking their respective places
as they entered. Having been arranged
alphabetically, the Utah section and banner
were quite, in the rear. In passing down
the hall to take our places we were inter-
cepted by one of the officers, who lifting
the banner “Utah” high above her head,
proceeded along the aisle, beckoning us to
follow, and the Utah delegates moved for-
ward, amid tremendous applause, to a place
in the front ranks. A special clapping of
hands greeted the response from Utah at
roll call, upon showing the full delegation
present.
	The chief feature of the morning session
was the address of the president, Mrs. Henry
Sanger Snow. She is a lady of unusual
pleasing presence, being graceful and
affable in manner and withal a most effici-
ent and charming president general.
	The afternoon was principally devoted to
society reports, of which twenty two were


[Column 1]
presented. Utah’s report and greeting
from the regent, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells,
was creditably presented by Miss Julia
Farnsworth, and was received with a dem-
onstration of approval. When it subsided
the first vice president general, Miss Ada-
line Whelock Sterling—who is recognized
as the wittiest woman among the society
leaders and is exceedingly popular—arose
and expressed herself in well chosen words
of praise and good wishes for the future of
our society, concluding with the wish “that
the little roots planted in the beautiful
western soil, would shoot up into magnifi-
cent trees.”
	The secretary general then presented
several resolutions, the most important of
which was one from the society Daughters
of the American Revolution, asking for
a union of the two societies. This request
was emphatically objected to by the
Daughters of the Revolution and conse-
quently rejected. Other society business
completed the closing session of the con-
vention.
	The Pennsylvania Society, D. R., had
planned an interesting program for our en-
tertainment during our stay in their chief
city. It was as follows: Promptly at 9:30
Tuesday morning a merry party left the
Hotel Stratford and proceeded to the city
hall, where we were tendered an impromp-
tu reception by Mayor Ashbridge, who in a
most courteous manner welcomed the
Daughters to the city in a pleasant little
speech, in which he referred to Philadelph-
ia’s wealth of historic interest, making a
fitting meeting place for a gathering of
patriotic women.
	From the City Hall we went to Carpen-
ter’s Hall, where we all were enthusiastic
over the historic relics displayed. Indepen-
dence Hall also received our attention, after
which we went to the grave of Benjamin
Franklin, which was decorated elaborately
with flowers and a flag. We next visited
St. Peter’s church and Christ church, where
we sat in the pew once occupied by Wash-
ington, Franklin and other great men.
From there we proceeded to the Betsy Ross
house where we all had our pictures taken
in a group.
	The party then returned to the hotel
Stratford and prepared for the chief event
of the day, an elaborate luncheon given
us by the Pennsylvania D. R. On enter-
ing the lunch room exclamations of sur-
prise and delight were heard on all sides;
it presented indeed a most attractive scene.
The walls were draped with bunting and
silk, in the colors of the society. At one
end of the room a magnificent silk national
flag almost covered the wall. At the other
a large blue shield bearing the words,
“Daughters of the Revolution,” in gold
letters, was the center piece, surrounded by
elaborate drapery. The color scheme was
also carried out in the table decorations,
yellow flowers in blue bowls being on each
table, together with yellow shaded candles
and quantities of blue and yellow satin rib-
bon. Even in the menu the patriotic ob-
ject of the society was kept in mind, for
“Liberty Punch” was served in little Liber-
ty Bells of blue and yellow. Following
the luncheon came a series of toasts. The
first was “An Optimist’s View of Our
Country’s Future,” by our President Gen-
eral, Mrs. Snow, who briefly outlined the
history of our country, its advance and
gain in territory and culture. Under the
toast of “The Winter at Valley Forge,”
Mrs. H. E. Bowschur described touchingly

[Column 2]
the sufferings of our soldiers, and the humi-
liation endured by Washington, when even
his friends and Congress seemed disposed
to criticise and blame him. A most inter-
esting address was delivered by Mrs.
Andrew Bray of New Jersey, upon “The
Responsibility of Ancestors.” Mrs. C. H.
West spoke upon “Our Society and what it
stands for.” The closing toast, “After
All,” was responded to by Mrs. Adaline
Sterling. In her response she summed up
the progress women were making in every
field, calling particular attention to the fact
that in this generation there are no old
maids. There are bachelor girls, plenty of
them, and unmarried women on all sides,
but the forlorn old maid as a relic of a by-
gone age, is quite out of keeping with our
present, progressive march.”
	During the remainder of my stay in
Philadelphia the time continued to be oc-
cupied in sight seeing, and throughout we
were most royally entertained, the Utah
delegates being the constant recipients of
the most marked attention. Our reception
and treatment left nothing to be desired.
	On the morning of Saturday, April 29th,
I left the other members of the party and
started for home, they intending to remain
in the east a few weeks longer. The
homeward trip was rendered exceedingly
interesting by my meeting with many per-
sons eager to hear something about Utah,
with special reference to the “Mormons.”
This gave frequent opportunity to explain
to such the religious faith of the Saints. I
greatly enjoyed this excursion and those
with whom I conversed appeared to be
favorably impressed with what they heard.
				MABELLE SNOW.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


ANNIVERSARY SYRACUSE.

	Our worthy president felt desirous that
our proceedings on anniversary day be
briefly reported.
	A meeting was held in the ward meeting
house commencing at 2 p. m., President
Mary Ann Walker presiding. The choir
led in singing the hymns. After invoca-
tion by Bishop Cook President M. A.
Walker read the minutes of the organiza-
tion of the first Relief Society meeting.
	During the meeting Sister Mary I. Kerr
(having been present at the meeting when
the Prophet Joseph organized the Relief
Society) made some interesting remarks
upon the same subject.
	The program consisted of appropriate
songs, readings and recitations by mem-
bers of the society and some of the young-
er people. There were also instructive and
encouraging addresses by Bishop Cook and
each of his counselors. The program was
well rendered, and all present felt as ex-
pressed by Brother Jas. G. Wood in the
opening of his well delivered speech, “It is
good to be here.” In the evening a pleas-
ant party was given in the meeting house.
	The ten cent fund has been responded to
by three fourths of the members enrolled.
			MARIA COOK, Sec.


FILLMORE CELEBRATION.

	Minutes of Relief Society anniversary
meeting held in Fillmore ward meeting
house, March 17th, 1899, at 10 a. m.,
President Helen M. Callister presiding.
	The singing was conducted by Prof Wm.
Beeston. Singing “Hail to the Prophet,”
by the ward choir. Prayer by Patriarch


John Ashman. Singing, “Joseph Smith’s
First Prayer,” by ward choir.
	President Ira N. Hinckley then addressed
the society. Said he was pleased to be
here, had listened to many valuable in-
structions from the mothers in Israel, that
this was a fine institution to minister to the
poor and needy, the sick and afflicted, that
great responsibilities rested upon these sis-
ters, that the sisters by the bedside of the
sick often get tired, but they never give up.
	The secretary then read the minutes of
the first organization of the Relief Society.
Mrs. Mary Henry rendered an instrumental
selection entitled “World’s Fair March.”
	Patriarch John Ashman addressed the
society. Among other things he suggested
that we get clothing that is not entirely
worn out and make them over into com-
fortable clothing for the little ones.
	The choir sang “Come let us rejoice in
the day of salvation.” Sister Seraph Jack-
son read a selection entitled “Evening
Thoughts.” Sister Mary Payne and
daughters sang a sacred song entitled “I
will love the Lord with all my heart.”
President Helen M. Callister then read an
original sketch on Pioneer Life. Brother
Tod Ashman sang “Break the News Gent-
ly to Mother.” Counselor Eliza Wicker
read an article about our sisters just re-
turned from the Woman’s Council in
Washington, also made an address. Sister
Lizzie Paine favored us with an instru-
mental selection, “Nearer my God to Thee.”
	Picnic was then passed and a short inter-
val spent in conversation. The choir sang,
‘O, Trust in the Goodness of God.” The
secretary, Isabel E. Robison, then read a 
manuscript paper containing instructions of
President Joseph Smith to the Relief So-
ciety, statistics and history of organization
in Utah, its growth, labors, etc., also local
organization. Song by Sisters Lizzie Ash-
man and Annie Carling entitled “Gentle
Annie.” Sister Angeline Hinckley ad-
dressed the assembly, urging all who were
not members to join the society. Address
by Brother Ova Peterson. Said that we
should hold all characters sacred, etc.
Maggie Starley recited an excellent poem
entitled “Count Me.” Sister Delilah K.
Olsen read an original poem, and Sister
Phebe Henry sang “A Sailor’s Grave.”
Sister Marietta Webb gave a brief sketch of
the life of her grandmother, Sarah M.
Cleveland. Mr. Tod Ashman sang. Presi-
dent H. M. Callister invited all the sisters
who were not members to join our society.
Brother John Jackson and Brother Cooper
sang a song. Brother Farth made a closing
address, the choir and congregation sang
“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning,”
and benediction was pronounced by Brother
John Cooper.
				I. E. ROBISON, Sec.


Mrs. Frances H. Howard, of the New
England W. P. A., read a characteristically
trenchant paper on “Our Critics,” at the
last literary meeting of the association.
The paper will be printed entire in the
Club Woman.

	Lady Tennyson, the wife of the new
viceroy of South Australia, is an Irish wo-
man. Her name when she married the
laureate’s son, the Hon. Hallam Tennyson,
in 1884, was Audrey Florence Boyle, of the
famous fighting family of Cork. She is the
mother of three sons two of whom remain in
England.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


In Iceland men and women are in every
respect political equals. The nation, which
numbers about 70,000 people, is governed
by representatives elected by men and wo-
men together.
	May Wright Sewall, honorary president
of the National Council of Women of the
United States, and vice president of the In-
ternational Council of Women, has ad-
dressed a letter to the Czar of Russia in the 
name of 1,250,000 women of the United
States in the membership of the Council,
praising him for his peace project.


Calumny would soon starve and die of it-
self if nobody took it in and gave it a lodg-
ing.


[Column 1]
ITEMS OF INTEREST.

	The remains of the late Lord Herschell,
ex-Lord Chancellor, who was sent to
Washington to take a leading part in
negotiations designed to settle differences
between the United States and Canada,
were sent to England by the ship Brooklyn.
This was considered a very graceful act,
and a decided compliment to Great Britain.
About the same time the Spanish Cabinet
resigned, and the queen signed the Peace
treaty independent of the Cortez.
	Our brave and gallant naval commander,
Governor General and statesman all in one,
George Dewey, has been made Admiral for
life, the office going out of existence at his
death.
	Queen Victoria’s visit to France, which
was said to be so repugnant to the people
of that Republic, seems to be progressing
nicely. It is said she is winning their 
hearts by her kind deeds and womanly
tenderness. On one occasion she had her
cortez stopped to allow the French train of
one of the peasantry to pass. Another time
a small boy was found crying. The queen
immediately stopped her carriage, assuaged
his grief by giving him a few coppers, and
left him smiling and happy. Her retinue
consisted of sixty persons, her chaise and
her own bed, which she takes with her
wherever she goes; her pet dogs, cats and
birds were sent ahead of her.
	Science records several steps in advance.
Speech can now be photographed. In
medical circles a new cure for pneumonia
has been found. The red marrow is taken
from a dead man’s body and used as a
Serum. But what I consider a most cruel
experiment was tried by Dr. Tuffier in
Paris before a number of his pupils. He
was called to the hospital immediately after
the death of a young and, I presume, poor
artist, and after trying all the means known
to science to make sure the subject was real-
ly dead he proceeded with the aid of his
pupils to lay bare the heart, and then
with his thumb and finger manipulated the
organ, forcing the blood through the lungs
and body and thus restored his life. The
dead man with a convulsive movement be-
gan to breathe, his eyes opened and the
light of intelligence spread over his features.
	He was asked his name and in a voice
that sounded a long way off, or even as
though it came from the tomb, he answered
correctly. The doctor then being worn out
ceased his operations, and the poor man
was allowed a second time to die. It
seems this eminent physician had experi-
mented some fifty times before on animals,
and believes that when death is caused by
a sudden shock, all other things being
favorable, that life may be restored per-
manently.
	A very sad affair has been the illness of
Rudyard Kipling, that great writer of prose
and poetry who has done so much to unite
England and America. At a time when he
seemed hovering between life and death his
little six year old daughter was called from
earth, which was kept from him for a time.
What a trial it must have been for his wife.
It is said the author has had no less than
one hundred poems written to him since
his illness. It is presumed he has not read
them, as he is rapidly improving.
	We have had several disastrous fires in
the past month, one in the Windsor hotel,
N. Y., in which 15 persons met death and
many were injured, cause, the careless throw-
ing away of a match after lighting a cigarette.

[Column 2]
Another in Omaha when twenty women
leaped for life. Two were dashed to pieces
and many others seriously hurt. And still
another in Chicago, and others which I have
not mentioned. We have also had an
epidemic of crime for which the newspapers
are largely responsible by publishing every
harrowing detail, thus putting things into
the heads of the wicked which would other-
wise, perhaps, not be thought of. 
	The queen of Norway and Sweden has
placed a contribution box upon her table,
in which visitors may place sums of money
to aid the Salvation Army.
	The love letters of that great and virtu-
ous (?) king, Henry VIII to Anne Bolyn,
have been found in the library of the Vati-
can. They are said to be very gushing
and boyish, and quite characteristic of the
old fellow.
	It is supposed that ten freight steamers, 
nine British and one American, with three
hundred lives, have been lost in the terrific
storms of March. In China hundreds of
villages have been submerged by Yellow
river floods, millions of lives lost and famine
exists insomuch that they are obliged to
call for aid.
	England and France have come to a
settlement in regard to the division of Africa,
and it is surmised that America will pro-
pose arbitration at the Peace Conference.
	Trusts too are flourishing. We are to
have a woolen goods Trust and a gigantic
whiskey Trust, with a capital of $128,150,
000.
	The Red Cross Society is to be reorgan-
ized with a president and president of board
of doctors and a chief staff, who will be
general manager. It will probably have a
building in the near future for its own ex-
clusive use in Washington. Clara Barton
will, of course, be the president.
	We are to have a Salt Palace and a
Federal Building in Salt Lake City.
	Possibly the ladies have heard that the
Legislature after sitting the usual time
with the last day lengthened out to 168
hours, failed to elect a Senator. But let us
draw the mantle of charity around our own
State and talk of things which, perhaps, are
more important. The war and the gallant
soldiers who are wearing out their lives, if
possibly they escape the shells of the enemy,
beneath a burning sun, chasing down the
Rebels who are held together for a time by
the selfish ambition of one man, who, by
the way, is said to have gained the love of
his people by his justice, kindness and
moderation. In the first battle of the 25th
one hundred and twenty-five Americans. 
were wounded and fifteen killed, three of
whom were Utah boys. Eleven hundred
and ten soldiers have been brought from
Cuba and Porto Rico to be buried in native
land. The Cuban assembly closes and
Gomez is to be recognized as a Cuban leader.
							R. M. F.


AMERICA.

America! Columbia's Land,
	When first thy shores were found
By noble men inspired, their joy
	Was great, it knew no bound,
They knelt in pure devotion, 	
	When they beheld the sight,
 They blessed the land and praised God’s name
	For guiding them aright.

Hi[-]her the weary Pilgrims flocked,
	Unto this happy clime,
And made the Laws so broad and deep, 
	That the oppressed could come.
The hills and vales resound with praise,
	To thee oh! Washington, 
Who crushed the Monarch’s power,
	And reared for longing hearts a home.

Religious freedom on thy soil,
	 Was born ’mid struggling bands,
And Liberty to li[-]ht the world,
	In New York harbor stands.
Shine on thou incandescent light,
	Nor let thy rays grow dim,
Bring joy to earth’s inhabitants,
	With thy Effulgent gleam.

May empires fall before thy power,
	And crumble,into dust,
May justi[-]e burn her sweet incense,
	To all who in thee trust.
The God of Nations rules on high, 
	 He hears their sighs, their fetters break,
And with His great all seeing eye,
	He’ll pierce the tyrants yoke. 

America! Proud native land;
	When will thy Wars be o’er,
When wi[--] thy cruel conflicts end, 
	When will strife be no more?
When freedom reigns from pole to pole,
	Then! Then ! a reign of peace
Will usher in that happy day,
	From bondage bring release.

America, thy name I love,
	Home of the brave and free,
Free did I say ? while in thy courts;
	Fair daughters plead to thee?
Uproot tradition from thy soil,
	Spring up grand fountain pure and free,
For this thy weeping maidens toil, 
	And supplicate to thee,

America, thou favored land,-
	You’ve freed the slaves at home,
They now may reach the summit, 
	Of Ambition’s powerful throne,
’Twas right, ’twas just, but still a cloud,
	O’er thy fair Goddess floats,
Clear it away, let freedom’s bells,
	Chime forth their sweetest notes.

May western hills where towering peaks,
	In majesty arise,
True justice points her golden spires,
	Undaunted to the skies,
The mists have flown and freedom’s sun,
	In splendor shines on all,
O’er city, village, forest, glade, 
	And Legislative hall.
 
America! Pride of the world,
	The Nations bow to thee,
They see thy strength,they know thy power,
	’Tis felt from sea to sea.
Stretch forth thine arm, protect and shield,
	Yea succor the oppressed, 
Till all who ’neath thy starry folds
	Seek shelter, may find rest. 
LUCY A. CLARK.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	 Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.

	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday. 

	Address all business communications to

		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY MAY 15, 1899.


[Column 1]
	A HOPEFUL OUTLOOK.
	This issue of the paper closes the twenty-
seventh volume of the Woman’s Exponent,
established June 1, 1872. One can hardly
realize how few women’s papers there were
at that time, the New North West pub-
lished in Portland, Oregon, was the first
west of the Mississippi river, and only
very few had made their advent in the
Eastern cities. The Golden Dawn in San
Francisco appeared about the same time as
the “Exponent,” but both the New North
West and the Golden Dawn were discon-
tinued long since.
	At the present time there are many wo-
men’s papers and magazines in the United
States so it has ceased to be a novelty, and
they are now an important part of the news-
paper world.
	Here in Utah we have two, one a semi-
monthly, the other a monthly magazine.
The Review which was voted as the organ
of Utah clubs flourished for a while and
was very popular, but has been discon-
tinued.
	We will not weary our readers with de-
tails of newspaper work, its pleasures and
discouragements, but only remind them
that a new volume will commence with
June 1st, and that the paper will appear
in an entirely new dress, and it is ardently
hoped that the women of Utah will feel it
needs their support financially and in other
ways; by creating public sentiment in
favor of sustaining it among women, es-
pecially those connected with the Relief
Society of which the “Exponent” really is
the official organ.
	Presidents of the Relief Society every-
where should make an extra exertion to
make the paper popular, and authorized
agents try to increase their list of paid up
subscribers.
	The editor has been urged to furnish a
complete file of the “Exponent,” the
twenty-seven volumes bound in blue moroc-
ca with gilt lettering, for the World’s Ex-
position in Paris, and considering the in-
terest in the two books sent to Amsterdam
last year, (containing four volumes) it
would seem of sufficient consequence to ex-
hibit the literary work of Western women
in the early days of Utah, when it was
thought everything was too crude for more
than ordinary domestic occupations. Even
now one can read now and then of the ter-
rible ignorance that prevailed here until
recent years.
	Those of us who have been in Utah

[Column 2]
from the beginning know of the societies
literary as well as charitable organized at a
very early period, and the poems and essays
were as high-toned and as creditable in
style as those that are current nowadays.
	The people who settled these valleys
were not ignorant, and did not need mis-
sionaries sent here to be supported by
Christian churches in the East; they were
themselves Christians and not heathens,
and capable of teaching not only schools,
but the Scriptures as taught by the Savior
and His disciples. If the women of Utah
do not wish to be misrepresented in these
respects they should represent themselves
through their own publications. Main-
tain their own periodicals and circulate
them outside among the people of the
world, and especially among the branches
of the Church and of the Relief Society in
places remote from Zion where they are
anxious to know how to conduct and carry
on their own organizations in harmony
with the order maintained throughout the
entire society.
	It is not unlikely that this coming sea-
son will be a prosperous one and at any
rate it is the duty of all the Latter-day
Saints to prophesy good for Zion, and to
strive to have the prophecies fulfilled.
When Zion prospers all is well, and as the
women are a large part of Zion it is only
natural to suppose their affairs will prosper,
and if they are diligent and persevering
the legitimate labors in which they engage
will succeed, and let us believe the “Ex-
ponent” will double its subscription dur-
ing the new year about to begin.


[Column 1]
	THE PEACE CONFERENCE.
	Notwithstanding the Czar of Russia’s
call for a conference of all nations at The
Hague to consider peace measures was
ridiculed in the first instance, there seems
to be a widely awakened sentiment now in
favor of it and great men and statesmen
are expressing their views upon the subject
more and more favorably.
	The man who is to preside at this Peace
Conference is the Russian ambassador at
London. He is spoken of as a veteran
statesman and diplomat, his countenance
is calm and gracious; judging from pictures
in magazines one could easily imagine him
suitable to take charge of a gathering of
the nations representatives. Professor
Martaens who is also to participate is said
to be “the greatest living authority on in-
ternational law.”
	The British delegation at this Conference
is to be headed by Sir Julian Paunceforte,
who for years filled the position of ambas-
sador from Great Britain to this country.
M. Leon Burgeois, formerly prime minis-
ter of France, will head the French delega-
tion, he is reported to be “one of the most
eminent and scholarly men of contempor-
ary French statesmen.”
	Count Menster has been named as the
principal delegate from Germany. Profes-
sor Stenzel is another of the German dele-
gation, he has been severely criticised in
Russia and other countries for having de-
fended militarism.
	There can be no doubt of the great
eminence and strength of the men who
will compose the Conference, and whether
any pacific measures or methods are decided
upon or not the world will have been some-
what more enlightened upon warfare and
its evil tendencies, and will see the actual

[Column 2]
practical facts as they exist in other lands
of which, perchance, comparatively little is
known in the United States.
	The Peace Conference will be something
to remember in the future years as having
occurred at the close of the nineteenth cen-
tury, which has been marked by the
greatest progress of enlightenment along
many if not all lines of creative, scientific,
and inventive genius.
	The whole world of mankind, as it were,
will be looking on and watching the action
of this great international committee, which
really must produce an effect upon the
opinions and sentiments of the most truly
sensitive and most magnanimous minds of
the age.
	The International Peace Union estab-
lished some years ago has been steadily
growing among the people here and in
other lands. Conferences have been held
in Berne in Budapest and in Belgium, per-
haps in other places. Several ladies from
the United States have been appointed
delegates to these Conferences, and much
good literature has been sent out by the
Union, which has been steadily growing in
numerical strength and in popular senti-
ment. In Philadelphia there is quite a
flourishing society, Rev. Amanda Deyo is
president. She represented the society at
the National Council in Washington last
winter. The Universal Peace Union,
which is the name of the society in the
United States, is affiliated with the Nation-
al Council, and through that connection
the writer became somewhat acquainted
with the work and objects of the society.
Belva A. Lockwood is one of its ardent
representatives and an indefatigable worker
along these lines, also Mary Frost Ormsby.
Both women have been for years engaged
in many branches of reform work.
	The agitation of this subject, peace and
international arbitration and gradual dis-
armament, will necessarily create a senti-
ment in favor of better means of adjust-
ment of difficulties, and if no great change
is effected immediately public opinion will
be ventilated and people will come to an
understanding of the matter on general
principles, and in time will choose the bet-
ter way adhering more closely to the Golden
Rule.
	All these awakenings that come, from
time to time are helpful, and with such
meetings held in all lands as are being
held here in Utah, knowledge of the great
work of the Czar and the nation’s repre-
sentatives is sure to be diffused through
the daily press and from the pulpit, and it
cannot fail to produce good seed that will
spring up, and eventually the world will
become more inclined to peaceful solutions
of all the great problems of the universe.
At any rate the Peace Conference is a
hopeful indication to those who are looking
for the dawn of a better day, prophesied of
by the immortal Tennyson in that memor-
able poem, “Locksley Hall,”
		“A Parliament of nations,—
		The Federation of the world."


DR. TALMAGE’S NEW BOOK.

	“The Articles of Faith” is the title of a
book of 490 pages recently issued from the
Deseret News establishment. The book is
by Dr. James E. Talmage, and was written
by appointment and published by the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	It is a series of lectures on the principal


doctrines of the Church. The first page
contains the thirteen Articles of Faith by
Joseph Smith, with which the people are
already familiar. The index is very com-
plete which is always a valuable addition
to any important work. There is also an
Appendix which will be very helpful to
those who desire to make a study of the
book with a view to becoming familiar
with the contents, as a part of Church
theology, the Scriptures, Book of Mormon
and Revelations. Every lecture seems to
be definitely explained so as to be fully
comprehended, and in simplicity of language
the book recommends itself admirably.
The editor has undoubtedly taken great
pains to make all subjects plain, and the
object desired cannot fail to be accomplished
whether it is for theological students, Sun-
day School classes or educational institu-
tions.
	References to the Bible are numerous,
as also some to the Book of Mormon, the 
Pearl of Great Price and Book of Abraham.
The book will supply a long felt need in
regard to authorized doctrine on many 
vital points. Elders going forth as mis-
sionaries should certainly provide them-
selves with a copy for reference, and all
religious libraries should contain this
special treatise.
	The book is for sale at the Deseret News,
handsomely bound.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A SOCIAL AFTERNOON.

	At the residence of Mrs. Myra Y. Rossi-
ter on Thursday, May 4, there was a very
pleasant Kensington tea. The ladies were
mostly old friends whose acquaintance had
extended over many years, and among
them were bright young women who de-
lighted in helping to entertain. The
house was beautifully decorated in carna-
tions, roses and smilax, and the genial
hostess, always sweet and cheerful, was
more than gracious to all her guests.
	The tables were daintily arranged and
prettily grouped, refreshments delicious,
and the afternoon was passed in such con-
geniality of conversation that it will not
soon be forgotten. Sisters Zina D. H.
Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Minnie J.
Snow, Mary Alice Lambert, Lydia Ann
Wells, Emma Woodruff, Elizabeth Webb,
Sarah J. Cannon, Hannah C. Wells, Har-
riet Taylor, Vilate Young, Maria Y. Dou-
gall, Phebe Y. Beatie, Zina H. Bull, Mary
A. Freeze, Maria Winder and many others
were present and partook of the spirit of
the gathering, which was strictly one of
restful enjoyment. These social reunions
are most inspiring and comforting to those
who have many daily cares and duties, and
one who is thoughtful of these good sisters
whose devotion through long years of toil
and personal sacrifice, and who in a beauti-
ful home can open her doors and her heart
in generous hospitality, is in the true sense
of the word a benefactress.
	One of the ladies present at that party
has already passed behind the veil, Harriet
Taylor, daughter of Lucy D. Young and
sister of Mrs. Rossiter. How little we
know of the future; on that day her sweet
face and gentle manner reminded the writer
of her sainted mother, whose presence in
days gone by we were wont to see at many
social parties.
	Dear Sister Taylor died suddenly with-
out a word even to those she loved best on
earth, but as the poet said, so we believe—


Those who go—
Feel not the pain of parting, it is they
Who stay behind that suffer.


RESOLUTIONS FOR MAY FIF-
		TEENTH MEETING.

Resolved, That we the women of the
United States, believing in the solidarity of
humanity, recognize that whatever pro-
motes the permanent interests of one nation
must ultimately secure the highest welfare
of all; believing that the highest interests
of each nation are best conserved by its
own civil, political and social institutions;
that devotion to these interests in all nations
is measured by the industrial progress of
its peoples, and finds its best expression in
education, philanthropy, letters, art and re-
ligion; and realizing that these expressions
of a nation’s life languish in time of war
and are abated by all the influences, con-
ditions and circumstances accompanying
war and resulting therefrom, we deprecate
the maintenance aud enlargement of the
present standing armies of the world as a
menace to civilization, to culture and to
religious ideals; therefore
	Resolved, That we gratefully regard the
Conference convened by His Majesty the
Czar of Russia as the initiative of a tendency
which we hope will result in the abolition
of war as a means of settling International
Disputes, and the establishment of a per-
manent international court of arbitration.
Further, and finally,
	Resolved, That we extend to the com-
missioners appointed by President McKinley
to represent the government of the United
States at the Czar’s Conference, our con-
gratulations on the opportunity thus offered
them to assist in the inauguration of that
better method which shall characterize the
new civilization; and we respectfully beg to
assure them that their country women con-
fidently expect them to lend their high in-
fluence and large abilities to the service of
humanity by their disinterested efforts to
promote objects set forth in the letter of
His Majesty, the Czar of Russia, and the
still higher objects which are involved in
gradual disarmament, and which will come
to be regarded as its natural sequence.


AN APPEAL.

To the Women of Utah:
	In order to promote the international
peace measures which the Czar’s peace con-
ference at The Hague has been called to
consider, a Central Committee of prominent
women has been chosen consisting of one
woman from each country, that will join in
the movement. This has been brought
about largely through the influence and
efforts of Frau Professor Solenka of Munich,
who is the honored Chairman Lady Aber-
deen, whose name is well known in Amer-
ca, is the member of Committee from
Great Britain, and May Wright Sewall, of
Indianapolis, is the American member
from whom letters of instruction came calling
for meetings here. Later on, letters from
Munich were forwarded containing sugges-
tions and resolutions, and indicating gener-
al methods of procedure.
	It would seem by the delegation selected
by President McKinley to represent the
United States at the conference assembled
at The Hague, that the President has
considered the conference of great import-
ence. Hon. Andrew D. White, who heads
the delegation, is the ambassador from this
country to Berlin, Hon. Stanford Newel,
United States minister to Holland, in resi-
dence at The Hague. The other mem-
bers are President Seth Low, of Columbia
University; Capt. A. T. Mahan, of the
navy, (retired); Capt. Wm. Crozier, of
the army, and the Hon. Frederick William
Holls of New York, as secretary and coun-
sel. It is assuredly a very strong and dig-
nified commission, and the people of the
United States may be very justly proud of
the selections.
	The declaration of the Czar in favor of
peace, which was at first met by derision,
has now aroused sympathy from all civili-
ized nations. The more mature de-
liberation of thoughtful and intelligent peo-
ple cannot fail to see something practical in
the future, growing out of this generally
awakened sentiment, which favors peace 
and international arbitration instead of war
and bloodshed, which are, and naturally
must be, always demoralizing in their
effects upon the civilization of the world.
	In consideration of the great importance
of this subject, the women throughout this
city are most respectfully and earnestly
solicited to lend their influence, and also to
take an active part in a public demonstra-
tion on the evening of May fifteenth, in the
interest of the peace movement now being
agitated throughout the civilized world.
Meetings are to be held simultaneously in
all the larger towns and cities in this and
in other countries, wherever people are
sufficiently interested in the subject to
gather together and unite in prayers, hymns,
speeches and Resolutions looking toward
the betterment of the world, through a
gradual disarmament (of armies and navies)
and cessation of hostilities between nations.
	While the greatest men of the world are
wrestling with this problem of how to pro- 
mote and foster better and happier condi-
tions for mankind, women also are equally
interested (if not even more) in the moral
and spiritual welfare of humanity, and.
should certainly exert an influence in
favor of the uplifting tendencies abroad in
the world. And in the coming together
for the general good of all, men are most
cordially invited to participate, even though
the meeting is held under the auspices of a
woman’s movement.


All ministers of the city and pastors of
churches are most respectfully solicited to
preach from the pulpit on the preceding
Sabbath, sermons upon the peace move-
ment.
	And, therefore, in conclusion we cannot
too strongly emphasize the fact that wo-
men in all the walks of life should attend
the meeting and strengthen the movement
by their presence, their influence and their
vote upon the Resolutions presented by the
Central Committee to the women of all
lands.
	Emmeline B. Wells, Elmina S. Taylor,
Margaret B. Salisbury, Zina D. H. Young,
Bertha G. Bamberger, Elizabeth C.
McCune, Minnie J. Snow, M. Isabella
Horne, Maria Y. Dougall, Ruth M. Fox,
Sarah J. Cannon, Romania B. Pratt.


TRIP TO THE SOUTH.

	President Lorenzo Snow contemplates a
visit to southern Utah commencing today,
May 15, that will extend over a period of
two weeks or more.
	The party, that will consist of Presidents
Lorenzo Snow, Jos. F. Smith, and Frank-
lin Richards, Apostles F. M. Lyman, Rudger
Clawson, together with Elders Seymour B.
Young and Bishop W. B. Preston, will
leave Salt Lake City on Monday 15, and
journey by train to McCune station, below
Milford, where the party will be met by
the Presidency of the St. George Stake and
several prominent citizens of St. George.
From this point they will drive to St.
George, where they will arrive by Tuesday
evening, all being well.
	After a brief stay in that city the entire
party will visit and hold meetings in the
following settlements ere they return to
Salt Lake City:
	Kanarra, Cedar, Parowan, Beaver,
Meadow, Kanosh, Fillmore, Holden and
Scipio.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WO-
	MEN.

	The National Council of Women just
entering upon its fourth term starts most
auspiciously. The term of office is three
years, and the general plan of organization
and representation in the Council is as
nearly parallel to the government of the
United States as is possible in an organiza-
tion which, like the United States, is con-
stantly expanding. Its expansion, how-
ever, always rests upon the consent of the
governed. The officers for the next term
are well and carefully chosen to represent
the various sections of the country, as well
as the varying interests.
	Mrs. Fanny Humphreys Gaffney of New
York, the president, is a woman not yet
forty, but with each year recording pro-
gressive accomplishment of some line of
work. She is versatile, original, magnetic
and self-centered, not great or unusual in
any way, but with just enough altruism
and appreciation of others and their rights
or wrongs, or their abilities or disabilities,
to make her a successful leader and a satis-
factory presiding officer.

	Mrs. Maria Purdy Peck of Iowa, the vice
president, is a student of history, an author-
ity on many issues of college government,
and a woman of wide range of thought
and activity. She is well known in Iowa,
and whoever knows of her knows that the
one word to describe Mrs. Peck is to say,
‘‘She is reliable.” No higher praise can
be given any one than is conveyed in this
word, and the council is to be congratulated
on having so able a vice president.

	The recording secretary, Rev. Anna
Garlin Spencer, of Rhode Island, is a mind
so able and a delivery so forcible and ad-
mirable, that one feels convinced that who-
ever hears her must admit that this is in-
deed a stateswoman.

	Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, of Washing-
ton, D. C., the corresponding secretary, is
well and widely known through her con-
nection with the Florence Crittenden Mis-
sion. Her sweet face, gracious presence
and earnestness, make her a worthy secre-
tary to the council, and her firm belief in
the idea of the council cannot fail to im-
press all who may receive a word from her
able pen.

	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, of Utah, assis-
tant recording secretary, is a pioneer in
woman's work. She is editor of a paper,

[Column 2]
has run for the Legislature and meanwhile
brought up a family. She is aunt to the
present Governor of Utah, and is highly
respected and honored by all who know
her.

	Mrs. Hannah G. Solomon, of Chicago,
the treasurer, is better known, perhaps, as
president of the National Council of Jewish
Women. Able, earnest, confident and
successful is Mrs. Solomon in all things;
and the council feels that its finances are in
wise and competent hands.

	Persons desirous of attending the Con-
gress of Women, to be held in London
commencing June 26th and lasting one week,
may be interested to learn that the Con-
gress is held under the direction of the In-
ternational Council of Women, of which
Lady Aberdeen is president.
	The tickets, which include the right to
attend all meetings and take part in discus-
sions, may be purchased for attendance at
this Congress by any woman interested.
These tickets have to be subscribed for in
advance. The price is most moderate;
$1.75 to non-affiliated club members and
$1.25 to those affiliated. To those pur-
chasing tickets early in the season, the
privileges of invitation to certain social
functions will be probably extended—such
as the reception in Stafford House, garden
party at Fulham Palace, and the lawn
party at Gunnersbury Park by Lady Roths-
child.

	Naturally the International Council is the
heart and center of all the congresses and
at its business sessions only presidents and
delegates from National Councils are pres-
ent, but visitors and all interested are
cordially welcomed at all open meetings of
the Council and the general congresses,
and a hearty invitation is extended to all
interested to attend. The privilege of dis-
cussion is open to all at most sessions and
all who are necessarily cut off from the
regular formal program of the various
meetings of the council or congress may
speak and present their cause in this way.

	Many meetings will be going on at one
and the same time in various halls, as it
would be impossible to give all a hearing
on one platform in the short period of one
week; but it is the desire of the committee
to have the Congress as representative as
possible and no one whom it is possible to
include will be shut out. Those expecting
to attend the Congress would best engage
rooms ahead, as the London season being
still on when the Congress meets, hotels
and boarding houses will naturally be in
demand.

	The Hotel Victoria and Hotel Metropole
each have single rooms from 3-6 up and
other hotels at about the same price or
cheaper. Letters addressed simply to
these hotels, London, will reach destination.
Boarding houses are numerous and prices
reasonable, as are also apartments where
rooms are hired and meals ordered extra.

	Further circulars or information may be
had by addressing the president of the
National Council, Mrs. Fannie Humphreys
Gaffney 333 west 77th street, New York,
or the corresponding secretary, Mrs. Kate
Waller Barrett, 218 Third street, N. W.,
Washington, D. C.
	Among the speakers already determined

[Column 3]
upon for the International Council are:
	Miss Bates, Octavia Williams,
	Miss Anthony, Susan B.,
	Mrs. Peck, Maria Purdy,
	Miss S. American,
	Professor Bamberger,
	Mrs. Gaffney, Fannie Humphreys,
	Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson,
	Miss Sartain,
	Mrs. C. W. Alden, and others.
	
	There seems to be much question as to
the relation of the International Council
and the Congress of Women to be held in
London, yet the relation is most simple.
The International Council, an organized
body, holds its quinquennial or regular
fifth yearly session, as is its custom. As it
is an organized body, with regular dele-
gates and business of its own to attend to,
in order to include all women and have the
broadest possible representation of woman’s
work, it calls, while its own meeting is in
progress and under its auspices, this Con-
gress of Women, in order to widen the
range of opportunity, hearing and meeting
for all women interested in the work of
women up to date.
	The question is asked, ‘‘Are not fraternal
delegates received by the International
Council? Yes, through the medium of
this congress, which is called for all fratern-
al delegates in the widest and most hospit-
ible sense. Individuals of any national
societies affiliated with the National Coun-
cil here in the United States can be re-
ceived in the Congress by signing a blank
(forms for which can be had) stating such
desire. All that is necessary is to have
this blank also signed by the president and
secretary of the association so affiliated.
As for instance, any member of a local
suffrage league or the W. C. T. U. could
get such signature from her local president
or secretary and it would be honored, be-
cause the National Suffrage association is
affiliated with the National Council here, as
is also the W. C. T. U. There must be
forwarded with this blank the sum of $1.25.
These blanks will be furnished to appli-
cants.
	A general form of application is also
issued for the use of private individuals not
affiliated. For this $1.75 is charged.
	Organization is the keynote of the home
—the Council is the center around which
organizations revolve, each true to its.own
orbit.
	It is only by confering together in coun-
cil that the broadest, widest thought can be
reached, and the most harmonious results
in organization obtained.
	In answer to the question, “What is the
National Council?” I must ask you another
question then answer it myself.
	What constitutes the United States?—
neither territory, constitution nor people,
though each are vital and essential.
	Territory is senseless and of itself bound-
less; the Constitution is a document only,
however much it may contain or express in
sentiments or signatures; while the people
of the United States are of varying types
and degree and changing condition. The
real United States is held together and kept
a national unit by the spirit and intention
expressed in that Constitution—that spirit
being endorsed and acquiesced in daily life
by the people who submit to its rule.
Thus the United States is really a spiritual
entity held in the minds of the people.
	Now carry this thought of spiritual entity
to our Council. The strength of our Coun


[Column 1]
cil can never consist in material things nor
visible results, but in the spirit and idea
which the council upholds in its preamble:
	“We, women of the United States, sin-
cerely believe that the best good of our
homes and nation will be advanced by our
own greater unity of thought, sympathy
and purpose, and that an organized move-
ment of women will best conserve the
highest good of the family and the State,
do hereby unite ourselves in a confedera-
tion of workers committed to the over-
throw of all forms of ignorance and in-
justice, and to the application of the Golden
Rule, to society, custom and law.”
	The aim of the council is to bring to-
gether women interested in differing lines
of earnest work, that thereby breadth,
sympathy and tolerance may be brought
about, as well as a higher intelligence in
regard to the needs and common interests
of women.
	The council, as an organization, provides
a field and tournament ground where all
causes may plant their banners and main-
tain their claims for consideration.
	The herald of the council proclaims that
this council assembles publicly once in
three years to consider:
	“Whatsoever things are true, whatso-
ever things are honest, whatsoever things
are just, whatsoever things are pure, what-
soever things are lovely, whatsoever things
are of good report; if there be any virtue
and if there be any praise.” Phil. 4th
chap. 8th verse.
	It is of these things that the council
thinks.
	The council represents the highest ideal
of organized womanhood. It is the fair
court of justice, where the moral and up-
lifting forces of organization find common
hearing, balance and adjustment to the
needs of the hour.
	It knows neither bond nor free, nor
creed nor sect. It promotes no one or any
cause but such as its affiliated societies can
unite upon. Not all the causes advanced
in the council meet with the plaudits or
general consent of that body. But each
cause strikes a grand note that swells and
broadens into sound which arrests and
attunes the ear to listen for that harmony
which can only come through differing
tones centering in a common key. It is
organized to listen and learn—not to dictate
nor control.
	The organ has many pipes, yet the
music produced by it is grander and more
comprehensive than that of a single instru-
ment. An orchestra has its many instru-
ments, each player familiar with only his
own instrument, yet the result is unity and
harmony.
	The council is the woman organ or or-
chestra of influence for this century. It
seeks to unite the many differing voices
and heart cries of women into one harmon-
ous chant, which will lift the thought of
the listening world to higher, better things.
	To illustrate in detail the spirit and uni-
fying force of the council—consider again
the fact already stated that not all the
causes advanced within the council arena
meet with united favor or support, notably
the Woman’s Christian Temperance Union
and the Woman’s Suffrage Association are
potent and faithful to the council idea, but
no woman’s suffrage resolution has ever
been offered to that, body for consideration
nor has the W. C. T. U asked the dele-
gates assembled in council to endorse total
abstinence.

[Column 2]
	The National Free Baptist Woman’s
Missionary Society does not attempt to
proselyte delegates to become either mis-
sionaries or Baptists, nor does the Woman’s
Republican association of, the United States
urge that delegates all endorse the Repub-
lican party and repudiate the Democratic
principle.

	The council idea is above and beyond
little differences. It seeks for the things to
unite and overlooks the ones that divide.
The council stands ready to welcome the
Woman’s Democratic Association, if such a
one exists—and it yearns to lend its broad-
ening influence and patient ear to the anti-
suffragists, if they will come within the
fold. Each and every organization joining
has the same voice and power—two votes,
no more nor less—so no one cause can be
at the mercy of the others, since it is not
majority rule, but united effort that is the
outcome of the council.

	I am asked what are the advantages of
joining the council. If you appreciate
breadth of view with the mountains of
promise ever before you, their caps white-
topped with noble effort and crowned with
perpetual light, if you wish to rise to the
level of your highest thought and attempt
to fulfill the prayer, “Thy will be done on
earth as it is in heaven,” then there will be
no question of an individual or an associa-
tion being benefited by belonging to the
council.
	The advantage to a special organization
is that their subjects are here before a vary-
ing and more representative constituency.
Delegates and guests attending these coun-
cil gatherings come with minds attuned to
progress and open to conviction.
	In order to defray the necessary general
expenses, national organizations joining the
council pay $100 every three years, or
$33 1-3 a year. State councils pay $60 for
three years, or $20 a year, and local coun-
cils pay $24 every three years.
	Twenty national and five State and local
councils are now affiliated with the council.

	Individuals may be made life patrons
with full privileges of council except
formal ballot by paying $100 to the Coun-
cil, annual contributors pay $5 and also re-
ceive many privileges of the council.
	To be asked to become a patron of the
Council of Women is esteemed an honor,
since no name stands as patron except it
represent high purpose and character.
Patrons are not limited to women, as many
prominent men lend their means and in-
fluence to further the work of the council.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY AT HADEN, IDAHO.

	On Friday, March 17th, the members of
the Haden ward Relief Society held an
entertainment in commemoration of the first
Relief Society organized.  The members of
our society being very limited in number,
it became necessary, in order to make a
success of the occasion, to invite the whole
ward.
	At 7:30 p. m. the company commenced
gathering at the ward meeting house,
which was soon well filled. When all was
quiet opening prayer was offered and appro-
priate remarks were made by President
Martha Little. Then came the reading of
the minutes of the first Relief Society held,
after which came dancing interspersed with


songs, recitations and speeches. Refresh-
ments were served by a committee of young
ladies. All present seemed to partake of
the spirit of the occasion, and manifested a
lively interest in the proceedings.
	After the program had been rendered and
the dancing ceased the entertainment was
dismissed by prayer, and all returned
feeling well satisfied with the evening’s
amusement.
	Our Relief Society has not been able to
hold meetings regularly during the winter
on account of the extremely cold weather
and deep snow, which has been unusually
tedious the past winter.
	Our community has had its share of
sickness and some deaths have occurred,
but with the approach of spring the health
of the people is improving; and seldom has
spring in all its glory been more eagerly
welcomed than at the present time by the
inhabitants of Teton Valley.
		MARTHA LITTLE, President.
		N. G. SMITH, Secretary.


REAPER’S CLUB.

	The Reaper’s Club met in the Woman’s
Exponent office, Templeton building, April
31, 1899.
	A paper on the Life of David Livingston,
was read by Mrs. Marian C. Hannibal.
	Mr. Livingston was born near Glasgow,
Scotland, in 1813. He sailed to Africa and
landed at Cape Town in 1840. Livingston
received a good knowledge of medicine
and was a student of theology. He also
possessed considerable information on scien-
tific subjects. His love for humanity was
great, and prompted him to leave country
and friends to better the condition of others.
	Mr. Livingston endured many hardships.
While in Africa he was attacked by a lion,
and had his arm badly crushed. The
marks left from this injury served to identi- 
fy his remains when they arrived in Eng-
land.
	Livingston being lost for a time to the
civilized world, Henry M. Stanley was sent
to find him. This he succeeded in doing,
but Dr. Livingston after receiving aid de-
cided to remain and make further explor-
ations.
	He died amid the wilds of Africa on May
1, 1873. His body was taken to England
and interred in Westminister Abbey.
	Miss J. A. Druce read a paper on the
Life and Works of Beethoven, the great
composer.
	Ludwig Van Beethoven was born in 1770
at Bonn, a town on the Rhine a few miles
above Cologne. As a child he loved
music, was fond of nature and enjoyed
listening to the singing of birds. He did
not care much for amusements such as
children usually enjoy, and often appeared
lonely except when playing on his beloved
piano, then he was happy. In fact this
study was his chief pleasure in life.
	Beethoven received a good musical edu-
cation and possessed remarkable genius in
composition, improvisation, etc.
	His hearing became defective when he
was about 26 years of age, and at 28 de-
veloped into total deafness. Owing to this
severe calamity his labors as an instrument-
al performer gave place to work as a com-
poser.
	Many of his musical creations are the
grandest ever written. His Symphonies
are tone poems, and the Sonatas are
thought to be operas in disguise.


April 17th Mrs. Amelia Wardrop read a
paper on the Life and Inventions of T. A.
Edison.
	Mr. Edison was born in Ohio, February
1847, and was of Dutch and Scotch des-
cent. He read much at an early age on
chemistry.
	Many dramatic incidents occurred in this
man’s life. Fifteen years ago Edison took
hold of the electric light and made it a suc-
cess, so that its general use became practic-
able. Many experiments had previously
been tried both in this country and Europe,
but failed. Edison was also the discoverer
and inventor of the musical phonograph.
	Mrs. J. Druce gave descriptions of some
ancient cathedrals and churches in Mexico.
	The Grand Cathedral in the City of
Mexico was commenced in 1573 A. D., but
was not completed until 1667, at a cost of
over two million dollars. The towers are
two hundred feet high and contain forty
six bells. This edifice is grand and impos-
ing. The walls are built of unhewn basalt,
and the choir is constructed with very rare
and costly carved woods. Many of the
articles, such as candlesticks, crosses, etc.,
were of solid gold or silver encrusted with
precious stones.
	The great calender stone by which the
Aztecs calculated a recurrence of their
cycles, (52 years) and the months of each
year, was cemented into the western wall
of this cathedral in 1790 A. D. It still re-
mains in that position, and is a veritable
relic of the Aztecs. The stone is covered
with hieroglyphics.
	Other cathedrals were also richly dec-
orated.
			J. A. DRUCE, Cor Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


INCORPORATION.

THE DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.
	This organization was incorporated April
3, 1899, and has for its object, as set forth
in the articles, which were filed in the
county clerk’s office, the perpetuation of
the patriotic spirit of the men and women 
who achieved American independence, by
commemorating prominent events connect-
ed with the war of the revolution; the en-
couragement of the study of American his-
tory and first, last and all the time to instil
into the hearts of the young the spirit of
liberty that made American independence
an accomplished fact. 
	The incorporators are Emmeline B. Wells,
Sarah F. Smith, Ella W. Hyde, Lucy E.
W. Smith, Isabel M. Whitney Sears, Mary
A. H. Cannon, Maria Y. Dougall, Myra
Y. Rossiter, Caroline Y. Cannon, Susa
Young Gates, Julia P. M. Farnsworth,
Julia Almira Farnsworth, Almira H. Mur-
dock, Emily H. Cannon, Phebe Y. Beattie,
Clarissa S. Williams, Catherine Wells,
Alice S. M. Horne, Claire Clawson and
Minnie Maebelle Snow.
	The officers are: Regent, Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells; first vice regent, Mrs. Susa
Young Gates; second vice regent, Mrs.
Clarissa S. Williams; recording secretary,
Julia A. Farnsworth; assistant secretary,
Maebelle Snow; corresponding secretary,
Mrs. Lucy Woodruff Smith; treasurer,
Mrs. Mary A. H. Cannon; registrar, Mrs. Phebe
Young Beattie; historian, Mrs. Alice Smith 
Merrill Horne; chaplain, Mrs. Maria Young
Dougall. The State council is composed of
Mrs. Cannon, Mrs. Seats, Mrs. Farnsworth,
Mrs. Smith, Mrs. Rossiter and Mrs. Hyde.


CELEBRATION OF PRESIDENT BRIG-
HAM YOUNG’S BIRTHDAY AT
SALTAIR.

	The Young Family Association con-
templates having the grandest celebration
this year, on “The First of June,” that
has been known in Utah for a long time.
Something like Pioneer Day in early Utah
times, when everybody was invited, seems
to be in progress. All friends of the great
Pioneer, President Brigham Young, and all
others who are interested will be cordially
welcomed to participate in the enjoyment
of a real gala day at Saltair. Committees
have been appointed to attend to all the
necessary arrangements, and a splendid
program is in preparation.
	It will be the ninety-eighth birthday of
the honored and beloved leader of the peo-
ple who first settled Utah, and President
Lorenzo Snow, with the other Church
authorities, enter heartily into the idea of
observing in the elaborate way suggested, as
being appropriate thus to keep in memory
one of the greatest men of the present cen-
tury.
						L. L G. R.


APPEAL FROM CLARA BARTON.

	The Red Cross is now establishing in
Cuba at the request of the Government, a
Hospital Service to assist in the care of the
sick and homeless people of the island. In
the Philippines owing to the active opera-
tions now being conducted by the American
army, and the approach of the rainy season
in the tropics, we are increasing the hospital
staff already there, assisting in the care of
the sick and the wounded.
	If your generous readers wish to take
part in the work, and if the service rendered
by the Red Cross during the Spanish-
American War has commended itself to
them, may I ask that you will kindly
explain to them our present mission, and
ask their co-operation and support ?
	All contributions should be sent to this
office, and be made payable to John Joy
Edson, treasurer, or to the American
National Red Cross.
			CLARA BARTON.


That country is the fairest which is in-
habited by the noblest mind. 
	Rev. Anna H. Shaw and her secretary,
Miss Lucy E. Anthony, expect to spend
this summer riding through England,
Scotland and Ireland on their wheels.
	A correspondent of the Boston Transcript
protests against the name of the “Simmons
Female College” for the new industrial
college for women about to be founded in
this city. He or she writes: “Away back
in the fifties Mrs. Sarah Jane Hale began
her crusade against the use of this word in
names of institutions for women. Her
criticisms were approved, and the practice
supposed to be stopped. It is certainly to
be hoped that there is nothing to prevent a
change in the proposed name, otherwise a
department for the education of female
horses, dogs, cats or any other animals may
be legally annexed to this college! Anoth-
er for all fowl or bird life of the female
gender, and so on indefinitely. Simmons
College for Women would be an honoring
and honorable name. Can it not be thus
named?


CALL FOR PEACE MEETING.

	Pursuant to a call made upon the ladies
of Utah by the American member of the
International Peace Committee, arrange-
ments have been made to hold a public
mass meeting of citizens, under the auspices
of women’s organizations in Utah, in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Monday evening,
May 15, 1899, simultaneously with women’s
meetings throughout this and other countries.
Held’s famous band will be in attendance to
inspire the audience with sweet music, and
five-minute speeches from prominent men
and women on the peace subject, with some
good vocal music, will make an attractive
program. Gov. Wells is expected to be
present and preside. Tae public is most
cordially invited.
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
			ELMINA S. TAYLOR,
			RUTH M. FOX.

Save Your Money! 
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah. 
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own 
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD,

TIME TABLE IN EFFECT MARCH 10, 1809.
ARRIVE.
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis, Kansas City
	and Denver..............................................................3:30 a.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley, Portland, Butte and San
	Francisco.................................................................8:55 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha and Denver...3:05 p.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley and San Francisco..............7:20 p.m.
**From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete and intermediate
	points.......................................................................9:35 a.m.
From Tintic, Mercur and Intermediate points.................6:30 p.m.
*From Tooele and Terminus...........................................6.00 p.m.
DEPART.
For Ogden, Park City, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, Kan-
	sas City and St. Louis.............................................7:00 a.m.
For Ogden, Cache Valley and Intermediate points.........8:00 a.m.
**For Tintic, Mercur and Intermediate points................7:30 a.m.
For Ogden, Denver, St. Louis, Chicago, San Francisco..6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Portland, San Francisco.....................9:45 a.m.
**For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and Frisco......................5:30 p.m.
*For Tooele and Terminus...............................................7:45 a.m.
	**Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays.
	*Daily except Sunday.

City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall,
Second South Street.
S. W. ECCLES,			D. E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager.		Gen. P. and T. Agent
			W. H. BANCROFT.
		Vice President and Gen’l Manager.

