Christmas at the Desert's Edge By Lorene Pearson I was the day before Christmas I on the dry, dust-bitten farm of Martha and Hiram Hanks. Since early morning a high wind had been sweeping across the hummocks of greasewood that caught the swirling dust about its tenacious roots. Martha looked out of the window of their drafty tar-paper shack with bitter tears in her eyes. It had been another dry, unproductive year, but drier and more unproductive than the five years just past. The garden patch had dried up so early in the spring that Martha had lost interest and let big tumble-weeds come in and crowd out what few stragglers of vegetables there were left. She looked out now at the desolate patch and knew that nothing could be more bleak and discouraging in December than a field dotted with a few stubborn tumble-weeds that had not yet been torn loose to go tumbling over the country. With this wind she had thought the last of them would have blown off. But no, they hung on like grim death, intent it seemed, on reminding her, this day before Christmas, that her yield this year was weeds and that meant no money at all for anything that she desired. And all that she desired was a Christmas tree! But their poverty would not even allow that this year. Jed Parsons went every year to the Wasatches, miles away to bring trees in his truck. 740 An evergreen! What memories it brought of her own childhood in the mountains. And how she wanted little Marian to know and love those mountains she had never seen. It was the one thing that Martha had set her heart on. And now, this year, they couldn't even afford a tree. "Hiram, I can't stand it!" she burst out. Her utterly defeated spirit that had staved off bitterness all these last miserable dry years, cried out now in an uncontrolled flood of tears. Hiram stood by her helplessly. "Come, Martha, it isn't as bad as that. Cheer-up. We'll have a good time anyway. And Marian is humming away in the other room like a good fellow. You ought to be as cheerful as she is, don't you think?" Martha turned on him like a wolf at bay. "You forget that Marian still believes in St. Nick and that she thinks he is going to bring a tree this year like every other year. Why shouldn't she sing." Hiram was bewildered, hurt. His rugged, wind-burnt face was set in a patient mold and his ever hopeful blue eyes couldn't understand this defeat of Martha's. For him there was always another year, another season that would be better than this last. But women, he concluded, could not see ahead. They lived in the present, they couldn't think in years. Tentatively he asked, "Have you no faith at all, Martha?" He hoped this might allay the revolt within her. "Faith," she flared back at him, "faith! I've been living on faith all these years and absolutely nothing has ever come our way. I'm through, I tell you. I’ll not live on this dry farm another year. I'm going to Salt Lake and make some money so that my child will never again have to go without a Christmas tree." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Hiram was bewildered, upset. "You don't know what you're saying, Martha. You wouldn't leave Greasewood Flat. It's our home," he said, incredulously. "I intend to leave, Hiram Hanks. Unless, of course," she laughed bitterly, a dry, coarse laugh full of thwarted desires, "unless a miracle happens." It was as though a knife had been thrust into Hiram's heart, a knife she wielded. She could see it written plainly in his face. She almost retracted her harsh ultimatum, but already he had taken the bucket and had gone out to do the evening milking. It was just as well—she meant it—she couldn't possibly endure another starved year. Oh, of course, in all honesty, she had to admit that there were times when it was fun, and this awful dust-laden wind was forgotten. But nothing, absolutely nothing, could alleviate the fact that this year there would be no Christmas tree. She had had one every year since she was a baby. To her it typified the joy in the world. No matter if there were no presents. If the family could put up a tree in commemoration of the birth of Christ, in commemoration of all the loveliness he brought into the world—that was sufficient. But not even to be able to renew that faith in beauty—that meant death for Martha. IN this depth of bitter contemplation five-year-old Marian came running in from the lean-to kitchen, laughing delightedly. "Look mummy!" She held up a tiny basket she had made of a bright magazine cover the teacher had given her. Inside she had placed pretty colored stones she had picked up on the farm. "For daddy," she said, "Won't he be tickled, cause he loves the farm. I'll put it on the tree." CHRISTMAS AT THE DESERT'S EDGE Martha looked down at all this hope and happiness and had the sudden insane impulse to make the child cry, to tell her that there was no St. Nick, that they wouldn't have any tree. But at that instant Hiram came in with the pail of milk from the lean half-starved cows and Marian ran hurriedly to hide her treasure. MARTHA dragged herself around in a sodden haze to get supper. It was getting dark and the old oil lamp had to be lighted, and new chips put on the fire. As she went mechanically about her work, feeling each blow of the wind as though it beat raw against her heart, she reflected, as women do in bad moments, on all the petty annoying heart-breaking things that had happened to her since she married Hiram Hanks and came to Greasewood Flat. There was the time she saved her chicken money to buy a spring bonnet and an Easter dress for Marian. The money had to go' for seed that the wind blew out of the ground after the fall planting. There had been the time her turkey brood, just over those awful first weeks when they had to' be watched day and night, had been eaten by a coyote that broke into the coop the very first night she hadn't got up to tend them. And always, always Hiram's stubborn, optimism and gay laugh asked, "Well, does it really matter so very much, after all?' Matter! Martha jammed the lids down on the stove with a wild clatter. She was blinded by tears of anger and defeat. HEN a word caught her ear from the other room. "It was a miracle," Hiram was saying to Marian. Sometimes God performs his miracles through St. Nick." Involuntarily Martha listened. It was 741 the same old story Hiram told Marian every Christmas eve." The child always asked for it and Hiram always told it. But how ironic to tell it in this country where miracles never had happened! She peeked into the other room. Marian was sitting on Hiram's lap. His face was aglow with the story he was about to tell. Huis eyes met Marian's in an azure gaze of understanding. She had his optimism —they loved the communion that this story brought. "Tell it daddy," she urged. "It's the story of a little girl and a poor widow and the good St. Nick," he began. Marian clapped her hands in anticipation. "It was the night before Christmas, just as tonight. In the old country it was the habit among all the children to put one of their wooden shoes out on the sill of the window so that when St. Nick passed by he 'could drop a little gift into it. The little girl in the poor widow's house took off her shoe and carried it outside. Snow had begun to fall and she knew it would be very, very cold before morning. But she knew old St. Nick always came no matter what kind of a night it was. So she went to sleep peacefully. But the poor widow didn't have any faith in St. Nick and because she was poor and had no money to go buy a present for her little girl, she was sure there would be nothing in the shoe in the morning. So she cried all night. But, imagine her joy, when the little girl jumped out of bed the next morning and ran out-of-doors to get her shoe. What do you suppose she found? A dear little bird that had crept in there away from the storm. God doesn't forget those who have faith. He just sent St. Nick around there to see that the little girl got something." 742 Marian clapped her hands. "St. Nick really brought it, didn't he?" "Of course," said Hiram, a happy smile on his red-brown face. Marian jumped down from her father's lap and asked solemnly, "Daddy, do you think I should put my shoe out on the window sill. I don't want him to miss me, daddy. But a tree wouldn't go in a shoe, would it?" Hiram laughed a joyous laugh. (Quite as though everything were all planned for a big Christmas, thought Martha bitterly.) Then he looked down at his solemn child. "No, your shoe would be too small, and then. There isn't any window sill. Tarpaper shacks just don't have any. But St. Nick knows that and so he'll manage some way. Especially if you're a right good girl and have faith." "Oh," said Marian solemnly, "He wouldn't forget my tree, I know he wouldn't." When supper was over and Marian was sleeping peacefully in her little bed, Hiram had the hurt look on his face that Martha had caused with her outburst. At last he said, "I guess I feel like the old widow in the story in spite of my faith." Martha couldn't help cutting in sardonically, "Well, why did you tell the child that fantastic tale to get her hopes up?" HE wind blew and buffeted and beat the little tar paper shack on Greasewood Flat. In the darkness and tumult of the storm Martha tossed and felt the hurt of unshed tears in her dry throat. Hiram, she knew was awake, too, but he didn't toss. He lay there as though some RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE great weight held him down. Toward morning the wind quieted and the two of them dropped off into a fitful sleep. 'It seemed as though they had just closed their eyes when Marian's shouts and the tug of her little hands woke them up to a sunlit, quiet world. "He's been here, he's been here," she ran to the bed, screaming excitedly. "Out on the porch. Come quick and look. A tree, a tree." Martha and Hiram, stirred by the enthusiasm in the little voice, got up, and in spite of their unhappy night, felt a thrill of anticipation and curiosity.. They went to the door, where already Marian had gone out before them. There, in a corner of the tiny porch two tumble-weeds had rolled, a smaller one on top of a larger one. Marian had already brought out all the last year's trimmings for the tree and had draped it over the prickly, lovely branched weeds. And hanging on the "boughs" were two tiny baskets. One was filled with pretty rocks, "for father who loves the farm," and the other 'was filled with the cut out pictures of pretty ladies "for mother who loves to sew." Marian clapped her. Hands and danced around the little tree but suddenly she stopped and there were tears in her eyes. "He didn't forget me, did he daddy?" Martha picked up the little girl and hugged her tight. This time the tears that ran down the mother's cheeks were not from a bitter source. They were from that other well in a woman's soul where happiness dwells. In her heart Martha knew that never again would she lose faith in miracles.