Our Project "BOOKS OF THE BIBLE" From Union Stake
Boy enters stage repeating—Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers— Oh Gosh—I don't see why the Relief Society Teachers got Mom started in on this. I've got to learn the books of the Old Testament— 39 of them! I don't see why 'cause there is nothing interesting in it. I tried to read it once and couldn't find a thing good in it. Oh hum! I'm sleepy. (Turns pages of Bible) Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus. (Yawns lays head on book.)
BIBLE: Son, I am the Bible and I have such interesting things to tell you and some wonderful people to introduce to you. Here are two I know you will like to meet. (Enter Adam and Eve, dressed in white with girdle of leaves.)
ADAM: I am Adam and this is Eve. My boy, know this, that instead of being wicked transgressors as this world would have you believe, we gave to you a great gift, that of mortal life. We have kept the commandments of the Lord, to subdue the earth and we have multiplied and replenished the world. You should rejoice that through our fall and the glorious atonement of Jesus Christ the way of Eternal Life has been opened unto you.
BIBLE: This is Exodus. In its pages is a story greater than any fairy story you ever read because it is true. A story of a wicked king who oppressed and killed the children of Israel until a great prince arose to lead them out of bondage. Did you ever hear of the waves of the ocean ceasing to roll and people crossing on dry land? (Enter Moses, Aaron and Miriam. They stand gazing with hands shading eyes as if watching the Egyptians. Moses standing with arm across Aaron's shoulder.)
Moses: Which is like unto the Lord oh my brother Aaron.
MIRIAM: Oh my brother, Moses, may I sing my song of joy? (Bending on knee before them.)
Moses: Sing thy song my sister. (Miriam chants Ex. 15:1-6.)
BIBLE: When Moses died a light went out greater than ever shone in Israel again. He was a prophet who communed with God himself. Could Israel find a leader great enough to lead this mighty nation? Yes. Here he is. (Enter Joshua.)
OUR PROJECT
JOSHUA: I am Joshua. I am not a prophet and can not commune with our Father as does Moses but I have been trained under the hand of that great leader and I was permitted to be with Moses on the Mount in the very presence of God. If you like a story of mystery and floods, storms, and spies, turn my pages. I will tell you how the walls of Jericho fell before us without one blow. How, you ask? Read and know the secret.
BIBLE: After all the war and bloodshed, horror and tumult of Joshua and Judges how delightful to turn the pages to a wonderful story of love and home life. Young and old find delight in this simple story of love and loyalty. No one can read these four short chapters without being the better for the reading. (Enter Ruth, Naomi, Orpha. As they reach the center of stage Orpha kisses Naomi and walks to left of stage weeping.)
Naomi: (Ruth 1:15) Behold thy sister-in-law is gone back unto her people and unto her gods, return thou after thy sister.
RUTH: (Ruth 1:16-17) Entreat me not to leave thee. (Soft music during this.)
BIBLE: Again I turn my pages and find you a story of patriotism, of a beautiful woman who risked her life to save her people.
ESTHER: I am Esther—when a great crisis arose in my life, I called for fasting and prayer, I needed these to make me strong enough to face my test. I faced my king, made my plea and because of faith and prayer I was granted the life of my countrymen.
BIBLE: Now I will bring you a man who is counted the wisest man ever known. After all these centuries his wisdom brings us joy. The Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, "Ask what I shall give thee" (Judges 3:5) and this man replied, "I am but a little child, I know not how to go out or come in. Give thy servant' an understanding heart to discern between good and bad. This is Solomon. (Solomon enters followed by soldier carrying baby—followed by weeping women.)
SOLOMON: (Kings 3:26) Divide the living child in two and give one-half to one and one-half to the other.
MOTHER: Oh my Lord give her the living child and in no wise slay it.
FALSE MOTHER: Let it be neither mine nor thine but divide it.
SOLOMON: Give her the child— she is the mother thereof.
BIBLE: My boy—men have ridiculed me, laughed at me, claimed to have proven me false, condemned me to oblivion and still I remain the greatest force for righteousness in the world.
Each character after having made his speech passes either to the right or left of stage forming a semicircle just within the shadow of the light. After Solomon had made his last speech the light was flashed on all of the characters, and by the strains of soft music each in the same order as they had entered the stage, returned again into the folds of the huge Bible from which they had come upon the stage.
Boy (awakening): My but that was a beautiful dream, those people were so interesting. I think I'll read the Bible and learn more about them.
Characters Adam and, Eve; Moses, Aaron, Miriam; Joshua; Ruth, Naomi, Orpha; Esther; Solomon, Soldiers, Baby; Two Women.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Back To The Scriptures"—Project November—Old Testament By Twin Falls Stake Relief Society
November is our Thanksgiving month. Let us study the Bible with this thought in view, that more than ever in our lives we will be deeply grateful and praise God from whom all blessings flow.
Quoting Professor Goodell—"The Bible is the master book of the ages. No one young or old can afford to be ignorant of this greatest Book of Books. Shakespeare, Ruskin, Webster, Gladstone, and scores of other Great men in political and literary life affirm that whatever is worthwhile and impressive in their style can be traced to their familiarity with the Bible. The Bible includes the most beautiful of Literature and some of the unquestioned masterpieces of writing. The greatest value of the Bible however is not to be in its philosophy or poetry, its history or biography, but rather in the fact that it influences our lives for good as no other book can do."
First week in November