In Confidence to Santa By Mabel S. Harmer WE once believed, more or less, that happiness consisted in an abundance of things but of late years we have learned that happiness depends much more upon what use we make of our possessions. Certain it is that we face life today with a truer sense of values than in our days of "prosperity" and both from necessity and inclination will attempt to pass that knowledge on to our children. In selecting Xmax gifts for children there are many things to consider. With some of us the first consideration has to be value. What will be the most worthwhile toy for the least money. A most important consideration at any time —in depression or out of it—is what the gift will do for the child. Will it continue to hold its interest, provide him with something to do or something to make? And last but not least, of course, is the child's own preference. It would be rather dreadful to give Jack a red engine if his heart were set on a pair of roller skates. "What can you do''? Is a question that a youngster has a right to ask of any plaything. A new toy, however bright and attractive it may look, must be capable of doing something, else it is fit for nothing but to be taken apart. Toys must be chosen which will give free rein to the imagination, develop budding creative instincts and provide real lessons in sense training and muscular control. A recent survey on Play Behavior and Choice of Play Materials, by Dr. Van Alstyn IN CONIFIDENCE TO SANTA shows that children spend more time on raw materials than on material of other types and that all ages show the same interest in these raw materials. ORTUNATELY there is no end of playthings which respond to the touch of small creative fingers from the modeling clay which can be purchased in bright colors at the 5 and 10 stores to the chemistry outfits for the boy in or near his teens. Every boy must own a set of tools onetime or other in his life. Most probably all of the time after he is three or so. First come the simple processes of hammering and sawing, both absorbing pastimes and fine physical exercises and practice in control. A small workbench must be provided if mother doesn't care to have various and assorted nailholes in her kitchen linoleum. If you want to give the young carpenter a thoroughly delightful book along with the tools there is "Your Work Shop" by Edna Plimpton (MacMillan) which a seven year old boy can read for himself. "When Mother Lets Us Carpenter" by John D. Adams (Moffat Yard) is another with good shop advice, interesting drawings and amusing verses. I daresay you thought there was nothing new to be said about dolls but doll news like the dolls themselves never grows old. Not long ago a small girl showed me a lovely doll that had been given her by an aunt. She was kept carefully in a box and the ribbons, laces and small white shoes were all immaculate. When I had duly admired the lady she was placed back on a shelf where she spent all of her days. The small girl then picked up her real doll and trotted off to play. The latter had a rubber body, soft and cuddly 747 like a baby's and could be bathed and tended in a most realistic manner. Girls never tire of sewing for their dollies. I know one mother who provides a whole set of materials for her young daugliter to make up for the doll after Xmas and secures for her many happy, busy hours. Jane would much rather have the fun of making them up herself than to have the finer doll clothes which her mother might have made. Cooking utensils are fascinating to the little girl and a cook book makes a nice gift for either boys or girls who like to go adventuring in the kitchen. They are sure to enjoy “Jane Louise's Cook Book" by Louise Price Bell (Coward McCann Co.). One eight year old boy sometimes amuses himself for hours on a rainy day by making, cutting and decorating cookies. Of course the kitchen floor is a wreck afterwards but his mother says that she prefers having the floor wrecked rather than her own nerves. Then there are numerous kinds of construction sets for the older children, such as erector sets and airplanes to assemble. For the younger ones the Playskool toys offer unlimited possibilities for imaginative and creative play and are also found within a wide range of price. The Lincoln logs are splendid for the child just beyond the building block age. Not all of the child's playthings should involve the use of a great deal of physical energy. There are times when it simply is not possible for mother to allow Johnny either to be hammering or working the new punching bag. And there are times when Johnny himself should have a period of quiet although he very seldom realizes it. For these periods of quiet play there are picture 748 books to color with crayons, puzzles, table games and anagrams. There are interesting sets on the market now of miniature Indians, cowboys, historical figures, farm animals and vehicles. These figures are from two to six inches high and give a wide range for imaginative play, especially if there is a sandtable or some similar arrangement where a farm or townsite can be laid out. Ig is possible to choose toys so carefully that there will be little need for discarding. Wheel toys, blocks, playfurniture, dolls and tools may be used for years if some attention is given to their durability in the first place. Some variety in playthings is also necessary because a small child cannot normally be expected to stay with one toy for any great length of time. As he grows older he can concentrate for a longer period of time but for the very young child it is better to buy two or three inexpensive playthings than one of higher price. It is also important that the toy fit the age of the child for whom it is intended. There is no need of giving a set of complicated: tools when a hammer and saw are all that Johnny can manipulate. On the other hand ten year old Mary may be deeply offended if she is given some plaything she regards as babyish. The very young child needs large materials to work with because his efforts are crude. He wants large building blocks and crayons and prefers pictures to color that do not have much detail. After the eighth year he is capable of using keener mental effort and more deft physical application. It is possible to provide too many toys as well as too few. The child RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE may become satiated and lose interest just as the appetite will tire of too many sweets. The "poor little rich girl' with too many toys is almost as sad a case as the child whom Santa deals with lightly. NO Xmas list is complete without books. They are the universal gift for young and old, rich and poor. There is no need of buying books that are discarded when read through once. The books that one wants to place on the bookshelf are the ones that can be read over and over again. You know of the beloved "Alice in Wonderland," "Heidi," "Pinochio," Kipling's "Jungle Book" and the Alcott books which no child should be allowed to grow up without. Some of the newer delightful books are "Hitty," the story of the first hundred years of a wooden doll, "Now We Are Six" by A. A. Milne, the numerous twin books by Louise Fitch Perkins (The Japanese Twins, The Indian Twins, etc.) "The Cat Who Went to Heaven" by Elizabeth Coatworthy is a Newberry prize book as is also "Hitty." The animal pictures in the "Cat" make it a lovely nature study book. providing playthings for children it is sometimes necessary to provide space in which to use them. It is unfair to give Bobby an electric train and then complain when he sets it up in the living room. But if the only floor plug in the house is to be found there, what else is he to do? It is often possible to arrange space in the basement for toys that stimulate activity and a congoleum rug and a little paint will make as attractive a setting as a child desires. Playthings may and should be definite assets to a child's growth and development if we choose them wisely.