President Grant's Counselors By Mary C. Kimball
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is blessed with an alert, earnest, devoted Presidency. They have a deep love for the people and for the great work to which they are devoting their lives. President Heber J. Grant shows his greatness in his choice of men to hold responsible positions. He has selected two remarkable and outstanding men to be his Counsellors. Both have shown throughout their lives their devotion to the restored Gospel. They have lived according to its teachings and have championed its cause wherever they have been.
J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., who was chosen April 6, 1933, to be President Grant's Second Counsellor, and who was sustained in October, 1934, to be the First Counsellor, was born in Grantsville, Utah, Tooele County, September 1, 1871. His parents, Joshua R. And Mary Louisa Woolley Clark, were sturdy pioneers of that section. He comes from a long line of pioneers and patriots. His father, J. Reuben Clark, Sr., served in the Civil War and his grandsires fought in the War of 1812, also in the Revolutionary War. J. Reuben, Jr., was a Major in the World War.
President Clark grew to manhood in the country. He aided his father in caring for their stock. At times his duty required him to stay in the saddle all day and all night, going without rest or sleep for 24 hours at a time. Often did he bring loads of wood from the canyon. In his early manhood he was a prominent worker in the Church. He took an active part in the Sunday School and Mutual Improvement work. In 1925 he was appointed to the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association.
HE was ever eager to learn. After going through the schools of his native town, he entered the Latter-day Saint College in Salt Lake City. His association here with Dr. James E. Talmage, who was then President of the institution, has been of inestimable value to him. Dr. Talmage encouraged him in his endeavors and gave him a position as clerk of the Deseret Museum. He resigned in 1894 to enter the University of Utah. As Dr. Talmage was then President of the institution, Brother Clark worked in his office and thus earned money to pay his school expenses. Whatever he could save above his actual need he sent to his parents. He thus had the privilege of strengthening the friendship and increasing his technical training under this great man. He was graduated from the University in 1898 with the degree B. S. In 1934 his alma mater conferred on him the honorary degree Doctor of Laws.
ON September 14, 1898, he married Luacine Savage. Sister Clark has been an inspiration and support to him in all his undertakings and has made a beautiful home. She has gone with her husband wherever his interests called him. Three daughters and one son have been born to them.
AFTER graduation Brother Clark was principal of the high school at Heber for one year, member of the faculty of the Salt Lake Business College for two years and served one year as principal of the southern branch of the State Normal School at Cedar City, then he again returned to the Salt Lake Business College. In 1903 he began work in the law school of Columbia University. Here his long training under Dr. Talmage made itself manifest in his accuracy and his great power of application. Dr. James Brown Scott, one of Columbia's professors, when preparing a case book of quasi contracts, employed Brother Clark to assist him. He graduated in 1906 and Elihu Root, Secretary of State, appointed him assistant solicitor. This position necessitated his studying international law. In the field of diplomacy he came in contact with America's leading statesmen. He went into many old cases and had them settled. In 1910 President Taft appointed him to serve under Secretary Knox as solicitor of the State Department. While in this position,he won the famous Alsop case against Chile. The case was arbitrated before the King of England and the United States Government was awarded $900,000.00. About this same time he prepared a memorandum on the right of the Government to protect its citizens in foreign countries by force of arms. This has become an authoritative statement in the State Department. In March 1903 he was appointed United States Consel before the British American Claims Commission. A memorandum on mutual trade which he prepared attracted the attention of Mr. Morrow and a lasting and delightful friendship was formed, which resulted in placing Mr. Clark in an important diplomatic position. "In 1917 he became a member of the Judge Advocate General ReRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE serve Corps at the request of General Enoch H. Crowder. Later he was assigned to duty under Attorney-General Thomas Watt Gregory. He remained at this post for a year and was assigned as adjutant to General Crowder, so that he held the rank of Major and was later awarded a distinguished service medal by Congress upon the recommendation of General Crowder. "He made a careful and exhaustive study of the Versailles Treaty which ended the World War. No other man in the United States had a clearer understanding of this historic document and no one was better able to interpret it in the light of international policies pursued by this government. "J. Reuben Clark supplied the well-known senator from Pennsylvania, Philander C. Knox, and those supporting Knox's views, with data when the great question of the League of Nations was debated in the Senate of the United States." AFTER the War he returned to Utah but in 1921 was called to Washington by Secretary of State, Charles Evans Hughes, to serve as a special counsel to the State Department in preparing the agenda for the Conference on the Limitation of Armaments. He served as technical advisor to Secretary Hughes, who later appointed Mr. Clark counsel for the British-American Claims Commission. In 1926 he was made a member of the United States-Mexico Claims Commission and soon became its general counsel. This familiarized him with the Mexican-American relations and because of this knowledge Mr. Dwight W. Morrow, Ambassador, took Mr. Clark to Mexico as legal advisor. He later served as under-Secretary of State. When Mr. Morrow was elected a United PRESIDENT GRANT'S COUNSELORS States Senator, President Hoover selected Mr. Clark to be our Ambassador to Mexico. He held this position with distinguished honor until March 3, 1933, when he resigned. In acting upon the resignation, President Herbert Hoover sent the retiring Ambassador the following communication: "I must of course, accept your resignation as Ambassador to Mexico, to be effective at the close of business March 3rd. "T wish to take this occasion to express to you the appreciation I have for the service you have rendered our country as its Ambassador to Mexico. Never have our relations been lifted to such a high point of confidence and cooperation, and there is no more important service in the whole of foreign relations of the United States than this. A large part of it is due to your efforts, and I realize that it has been done at a great sacrifice to yourself. The American people should be grateful to you for it." Secretary of State, Henry L. Stimson said, "Your distinguished service as American Ambassador to Mexico has reflected signal credit upon the Department of State." His contributions to the literature of the Department of State on international questions have been very important. He prepared one volume of 1,500 pages on "Emergency Legislation to December 1917." This stands out as the only publication of its kind and shows President Clark's ability to do a prodigious amount of work in a short time. He defined and clarified the Monroe Doctrine. Mr. Clark is now President of the Foreign Bond Holders' Protective Council, Incorporated. The appointment to this important poas sition came from President Franklin D. Roosevelt. RESIDENT CLARK'S legal and diplomatic training, his physical vigor and ability to work long hours, will be of inestimable value in his new position. He faces the facts. He thinks in an orderly, logical way. He has played his part "in decisions affecting the destiny of the world." His clear vision and well trained mind and the inspiration that will come with his position will enable him to aid in an unusual way in shaping the destinies of this people. The following quotation from his Conference talk will show the spirit in which he undertakes his important labor in the Presidency. "The world is moaning in tribulation. I do not know the cure. The questions involved are so nearly infinite in their vision that I question whether any human mind can answer them. But it is my faith that if the people shall shun idleness, if they shall cast out from their hearts those twin usurpers, ambition and greed, and then shall re-enthrone brotherly love and return to the old virtues — industry, thrift, honesty, self-reliance, independence of spirit, self-discipline, and mutual goodness —we shall be far on our way to a returned prosperity and worldly happiness. We must again yield fealty to the law that wealth, however great, is a mere shadow compared with the living, enduring riches of mind and heart. The world problem is not primarily one of finance but of unselfishness, industry, courage, confidence, character, heart, temperance, integrity and righteousness. The world has been on a wild debauch materially and spiritually; it must recover the same way the drunkard reprobate recovers — by repentance and right living."  ELDER DAVID OMcKAY, who was sustained in October 1934 as Second Counselor, has devoted the energies of his entire manhood to teaching, promulgating and furthering the interests of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. He has traveled extensively in all the Stakes and Missions of the Church. He knows the problems and difficulties confronting the people and this rich experience will enable him to counsel wisely and to extend sympathetic help to the people of the Church. DAVID O. McKAY was born in Huntsville, Utah, September 8, 1873... His parents, Bishop David O. McKay and Jeanette Evans McKay, were sturdy pioneers. He was fortunate in being raised in a large family of children, his parents having ten sons and daughters. His early life on a farm gave him vigor of body and a deep love for nature. During his entire life one of his greatest joys has been to return to his farm home, which his parents left as community property for their children. Here they all gather and enjoy each other. In his boyhood he knew the joy of riding horses, fishing and swimming. He entered' wholeheartedly into whatever he did, whether it was play or work. In school he participated in all the student activities, and ball games were a delight to him. In his early youth he was an enthusiastic member of the Sunday School and Primary Association. He early served as secretary of the Sunday School and also of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. He attended the University of Utah and was graduated as class president in 1897. Hs home training and his schooling fitted him to make an excellent missionary. He served from March 1898 until August 1899 in Great Britain and presided for some time over the Scottish Conference. While on this Mission Brother James W. McMurrin predicted, "Brother McKay will be in the leading council of the Church." IN January, 1901, he married Emma Ray Riggs, a charming, sweet, womanly woman. Their home life has been very beautiful. He and his wife have been devoted to each other and to their seven children. President McKay pays this lovely tribute to his mother, sisters and wife. "From my beautiful, ever devoted and watchful mother, from my loyal sisters in our early home associations, and from my beloved wife during the maturer years that followed, I have received my high ideals of womanhood. No man has had inspiration from nobler, more loving women. To them I owe a debt of eternal gratitude." E was released from his mission to become an instructor in the Weber Stake Academy. Three years later he became principal of the Academy. He made a noteworthy record and in 1908 became president of the Board of Education of Weber Normal College. His work in the great Sunday School cause has been outstanding. He was Second Assistant Superintendent of Weber Stake Sunday Schools from 1899 to 1908. During this period he was instrumental in introducing features that later were used with profit in all the Sunday Schools of the Church. Under the supervision of Thomas B. Evans, Charles J. Ross and David O. McKay the Sunday Schools of Weber Stake probably made the most rapid progress of any similar group in the Church. For the first time outlines were prepared, preparation meetPRESIDENT GRANT'S COUNSELORS 731 ings were held and the lesson work unified and made progressive. He went from Ward to Ward meeting with the teachers and showing them how to make outlines and instructing them in the art of teaching. Often did his wife bundle up her baby and go with him, so he would not have to make the long trips alone (those were horse and buggy days and it took a long time on dark nights to reach the distant wards.) The weather was never too stormy, the roads too rough for him to keep his appointments. He has been in the General Superintendency since 1906, serving first as Second Assistant and then as First Assistant and being made General Superintendent of all the Church Sunday Schools on November 27, 1918. During his superintendency for the first time women were made members of the General Board. HE was ordained an Apostle April 8, 1906, and is now a member of the Church Board of Education, being head of the outline work in the general committee on courses of education for the Priesthood. NOT only has he served in Church capacities, but has always been deeply interested in civic affairs. 'For a number of years he was president of the Ogden Betterment League and served for years as an active member of the Red Cross Executive Board of Weber County. He is an honorary member of the Ogden Rotary Club. He was made Chairman of the Utah Council for Child Health and Protection February 19, 1932, at its organization following the White House Conference on Child Welfare. He served as a regent of the University of Utah for three years. N recognition of his special service as Church School Commissioner and his leadership in the Church Teacher Training movement, the Brigham Young University conferred upon him the honorary degree of Master of Arts on June 2, 1922. He made a tour around the World in 1921-1922 with Hugh J. Cannon, and they visited officially all the Missions of the Church except those in the United States. They traveled during the thirteen months they were away 62,500 miles. They were five months upon the waters. They crossed the Equator three times and sailed every ocean of the globe. In Samoa there stands today a beautiful monument erected on the spot where this beloved Apostle offered his final prayer for the people. Everywhere he won the honor and love of the Saints and they will ever remember his visit to them. HEN he came back he was instrumental in establishing the Mission Home in Salt Lake City. The training the missionaries have received there, though short, has been of great value. He presided over the European Missions from 1922 to 1924. PRESIDENT McKAY has a charming, radiant personality. Wherever he goes he attracts people to him. He loves people deeply, and they in turn love him. Children bask in his presence. Dynamic and magnetic he draws friends to him as steel to the magnet. He understands the young and they look up to him as leader. The development of faith and the building of character have been his outstanding: aims. FLDER BRYANT S. HINCKLEY pays this beautiful tribute to him. Another secret of his success is his sweet and unimpeachable character. He lives above the fog and turmoil of daily circumstance. David O. McKay never did a mean or little thing, he is guilty of 732 no injustice to his fellows, he is free from the indictments of selfishness and trickery. All his days he has lived upon a high moral plateau and has risen to spiritual altitudes which few people reach, inspiring all the while those about him to climb to the same heights. "David O. McKay has done many good things and said many beautiful things but somehow he is finer than anything he has ever said or done. Back of all his splendid deeds, rising MAGAZINE above all his achievements, is the charm of his winsome personality. Dignified and handsome in appearance, congenial and gracious in manner, kind, sincere, genuine and peace loving; but when necessity requires, courageous in action, fearless in defense of right, brave in the hour of battle, gentle and sympathetic in times of trouble, strong for truth, justice, purity and righteousness, he is always and everywhere a gentleman."