The Opportunities of the Class Teacher (Address delivered at the Relief Society Conference October 3, 1934) By President David O. McKay
AFTER such a beautiful and complete presentation of plans and methods of teaching, as given in the two addresses to which we have just listened, I think there is left but little for me to say. It is a privilege, however, and a pleasure for me to join with you in this contemplation of the important subject of teaching.
"You never can tell what your thoughts will do In bringing you hate or love, For thoughts are things And their airy wings Are swifter than carrier doves. They follow the law of the universe, Each thing must create its kind; And they sweep o'er the track To bring you back Whatever went out from your mind."
I have quoted this stanza because I realize I am speaking to a group of women who are teachers of mothers. Many of you are mothers yourselves, and therefore are very frequently discouraged because of the many duties that you have to perform, and in addition to your home responsibilities, and the care of your own children, you have assumed the responsibility of teaching others, and after you have spent hours on preparation of your lesson, and you have done the very best that you can, you not infrequently feel discouraged, thinking that you did not reach your objective, as you tried so earnestly to teach your class. But I repeat, sisters, "You never can tell what your thoughts," your words and your kindly deeds will do in encouraging and inspiring those whom you teach.
I am reminded now of another stanza:
"I shot an arrow into the air It fell to earth, I knew not where; For, so swiftly it flew, the sight Could not follow it in its flight.
"I breathed a song into the air It fell to earth, I knew not where; For who has sight so keen and strong That it can follow the flight of a song?
"Long, long afterwards, in an oak I found the arrow, still unbroke; And the song, from beginning to end I found again in the heart of a friend." —Longfellow.