that it could be done, the teaching of the principles of cleanliness, of moral strength, and of the Christian virtues. Robert Owen had the idea, as will be remembered, that a factory could be made to pay and at the same time treat its workers with decency and justice. Similarly Miss Hill conceived the idea, probably with the help of Ruskin, that the proper housing of the poor could be made to pay for itself, while at the same time it helped those who were in need of better housing accommodations. It was this idea that gave rise to the phraise, "Philanthropy and five percent." That it was an excellent plan she herself proved, as also has the association in Philadelphia that bears her name. Octavia Hill worked almost wholly with women. This was a somewhat neglected field both in her time and before. She believed, moreover, that women were adapted by nature and disposition for the sort of tasks which she set before her. Philanthropy, she felt, was a noble outlet for a woman's energy. Her idea, as we have seen, was that women and children who could not take care of themselves should be put in the way of doing so, chiefly through the sympathetic aid of intelligent, educated, trained women, who could LESSON DEPARTMENT understand women's nature and needs better than men. 5. Open Spaces. The maner in which these leading ideas were worked out by Miss Hill is not only interesting in itself, but shows how her artistic talent and her sense for practical business were combined in a quite unusual way. In the London of her time, as in every large city of any period, ours included, there were thousands of dwellings totally unfit for human beings to live in. Too few rooms, too little light and fresh air, lack of running water, sanitary conditions, and places for children to play or dig? these were characteristic of all of them. Sometimes Miss Hill remodeled these, so as to make them decent places to inhabit, but sometimes she bought land and erected new houses. She speaks of one "waste, desolate place," which she transformed completely. This is her description: "There had been a paper factory on one-half of it, which had been burnt down. Four or five feet of unburnt paper lay in irregular heaps, blackened byi fire, saturated with rain, and smelling most unpleasantly. It had lain there for five years, and much rubbish had been thrown in. A warehouse some stories high fronted the street on the other half of the ground, with no forecourt or area to remove its dull height further from the rooms in the model dwellings which faced it. "Our first work was to set bon-fires alight gradually to burn the mass of paper. This took six weeks to do, tho' the fires were kept alight day and night. The ashes were good for the soil in the garden, and we were saved the whole cost of carting the paper away. Our mext task was to pull down the warehouse, and let a little sun in on our garden, and additional light, air, and sight of sky to numerous tenants in the blocks in Red Cross Street. The next work was to have a low wall and substantial iron railings placed on the side bounded by the street, so that the garden could be 777 seen and the light and air unimpeded. Then came the erection of a covered playground for the children! It runs the whole length of a huge warehouse which bounds the garden on one side." Gardens, parks, and open spaces were, in Miss Hill's opinion almost as necessary as suitable dwellings, for the poor whom she helped. In 1881 she wrote: "It is only when one feels what the narrow courts are, and how the people get maddened with the heat of them in summer, and how the children have no where to play, and how their noise hurts their mothers' nerves, that one feels what these few square yards of space are. But, things being as they are in London, that air, that space are quite riches to the poor." Strangely enough, the open-space movement on the part of Miss Hill met with considerable opposition. Her patient persistent advocacy of the movement and its slow-growing success are shown in what she said once to her sister Miranda, who helped in this phase of Octavia's work: "When I first began the work, people would say, 'I will give money for necessaries for the poor; but I do not see what they want with recreation.' Then after a few years they said, 'I can understand poor people needing amusement; but what good will open spaces do them?' And now everybody recognizes the importance of open spaces." This matter of open spaces, too, had its moral side. The temptation to drink was greater in those who had been working and sleeping in impure air. 'What is the best tonic after labor?" asked a speaker of his audience, and many voices shouted, "Fresh air, fresh air!" And this enthusiasm was echoed by one man after the meeting in the phrase ?which pleased Miss Hill: "If we can't enjoy the park often, the little uns will!" 778 Miss Hill always sought to have a garden in connection with every dwelling. Failing in that, however, she worked for a playground in connection with a group of dwellings. Time after time, as already hinted, she met with defeat from various quarters. But these only convinced her of the necessity of arousing public sentiment on the question. And so she had the matter of open spaces brought up before health societies and other gatherings. Presently organizations were created for the express purpose of either preserving or creating parks and other grounds for the benefit of the children of the poor. Thus arose the Kyrle 'Society and the Commons Preservation Society. In time many influential people joined her in the open-space movement. 6. The Housing Problem Still with Us. Octavia Hill's influence has been very great in providing proper housing for the poor, not only in England, but also on the continent of Europe and in America. Yet, despite her tireless efforts in this direction, which were unusually successful, conditions are only a little improved. In the year 1917, according to actual statistics, onethird of American families were living in good homes, one-third in fair homes, more or less lacking in conveniences, but not unwholesome, while the last third occupied the oldest and worst cast-off houses which no one else wanted. The housing of this last third was definitely sub-normal by any decent standard, and was having a deleterious influence on health, morals, and family life."* Only the other day it was reported that two million people in New York City were living in fire trapsin the slum districts there. "Of the 1664 persons who had lost RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE their lives since 1901, no less than 1422 were trapped in old-law tenaments.'"" Such a condition of housing affects not only those who live under improper conditions, but every person in the town or country where such conditions exist. "Bad housing conditions,' says Mrs. Edith Elmer Wood, in the work already quoted, "include lack of light (especially sunlight), lack of ventilation, dampness (as in underground dwellings), over-crowding, impure or inadequate water supply,. Lack of bathing facilities, insanitary or insufficient toilets, lack of sewer connection, uncleanliness, dilapidation, lack of screens against flies and mosquitoes, inadequate disposal of garbage." In New York City there were, in 1901, 350,000 interior rooms without windows to the outer air. Nor is this condition limited to the metropolis; every great city in America has such dwellings. "Shabbiness and dilapidation produce mental depression and the frame of mind to which the label inferiority complex is commonly attached. Extreme slum conditions, on the other hand, foster violent bomb-throwing radicalism and an understandable spirit of hatred toward the society which tolerates them.'" Directly, then, people who live in such conditions are affected in their health, in their morals, and in their attitude toward life; but, indirectly, the community suffers in that its moral tone is lowered, its surroundings are made more or less ugly, but most of all it is affected in that dependence, crime, and vice, as well as the death rate, are increased. Hence few problems *Recent Trends in American Housing (Wood), pp. 8, 9. An extremely valuable book. Published by Macmillan. "The New York Times, April 15, 1934. 'Recent Trends, p. 7. LESSON DEPARTMENT of modern civilization when we stop to think, are closer to the heart and the home, than this problem of proper housing. Most of the housing problems, of course, are in connection with city life. But what of the country? Contaminated water, for instance, is more apt to be found in small towns, and many farmers are careless about the location and depth of wells. Then there is the contaminated soil in the hook-worm districts. An Agricultural Department bulletin, in 1926, found that "slightly more than a twentieth of all the homes reporting (1466 in eleven States) were completely modern; that is, fitted with central heating and central lighting systems, running water, kitchen sink and bathroom (equipped with stationary tub and bowl), indoor toilet and sewage disposal. About a fifth of the homes were partially modern; that is, fitted with a part of the improvements named. Almost threefourths of the homes have none of the modern improvements mentioned above." The same conditions have been found in thirty-three Northern and Western States. Yet, in this last group, 30% had automobiles, 38% telephones, although in 61% women were water carriers, having to go an average of 39 feet to fetch it. It would seem, therefore, that. The housing problem directly touches the country districts as well, though not perhaps to the same extent. Overcrowding is common to both. It is enlightening to consider the death rate per 1000 in the United States, as compared with that in ten other countries: New Zealand, 8.7; Australia, 9.4; Netherlands, 9.8; Norway, 10.9; Denmark, 11.1; Canada, 11.4; England and Wales, 11.6; Sweden, 11.8; Uruguay, 11.8; Germany, 11.9; United States, 12.1. 779 After giving these figures from the Australian Year Book, Mrs. Wood, who is our highest living authority on the housing problem, states:* "Why are we so far down the list? Is it poverty? Ignorance? Density of population? Bad climate? Or is there some public health policy which they follow and we do not? Housing is the answer. Ours is the only one amiong these nations which considers it no concern of the community that a third of its families live in homes which lower their ressitance to disease and multiply their chances of infection." In this connection it is interesting to inquire as to the percentage of people in the United States who own their own homes. It varies, of course, in the different States and in the city as compared with the country. In 1920 it was 61.7 percent, unencumbered, in the nation as a whole. In the Middle Atlantic States it was 37.2, but in the West North Central States it was 56.4. The percentage of Latter-day Saints who own their homes is now (1934) 62. Fortunately the United States is waking up to a realization of what proper housing means to the commonwealth. This is one of the things to which the New Deal is directing attention. In New York City, for instance, millions of dollars are being spent in tearing down unsanitary tenament houses and building on the sites new, modern structures. And Secretary Ickes said recently, "We hope to demonstrate through actual slum-clearance projects in a dozen or more cities what decent housing at a minimum rental will mean for those cities in the way of improved morale, of healthier living, of abatement in delinquence. Slum clearance not only serves a highly Recent Trends, p. 288. 780 desirable social purpose, it offers an opportunity of employment for men in our crowded cities where the building trades have especially suffered during these years of depression. Our hope is that when the cities begin to receive the dividends that we know they will receive in social returns from these housing projects, the municipalities themselves or groups of citizens will take up and carry on this desirable work." This attempt to solve the housing problem in the United States is, of course, not new; it is only an effort to do here what has been going on in every country, especially in England, since the War. During his administration President Hoover, who was always interested in the human side of business, called attention to the fact that "it is easier to borrow 85% on an automobile and repay it on the installment plan than to buy a home on that basis?and generally the house requires a higher rate of interest." The finance of home building, he said, "especially for second mortgages, is the most backward segment of our whole credit system."
7. Influence of a Great Woman. Such, then, is the importance of the housing problem in human life, a problem that concerns society as well as the individual; such the attempts that have been made to solve it in the light of advancing civilization; and such the character and work of the woman who not only stands at the beginning of the movement to provide better housing for the lesser-paid workers, but who remains today the outstanding figure in the history of the better-house movement. Few women have attacked so big a problem with so much intelligence, insight, and courage; and few public workers have been more humane, persistent, and sweet-spirited. And now it remains for the women of today and tomorrow to carry the torch which Miss Hill lighted so brilliantly. But it will be of no avail unless they work in the same spirit as did the woman of whom we have been studying. "In one sense," she said once to a Mr. Blyth, "one is never lonely in one's efforts to stem wrong. So mighty is the Power that fights with us!" And what a young social worker said, after reading about Octavia Hill, is true: "It isn't so much what she accomplished that matters, but rather the spirit in which she worked, that gave her power.' "Oh, Mary!" Miss Hill said, away back in 1869, to Miss Harris, "life and its many interests is a great and blessed possession. I love it so much. And yet it seems such a simple, quiet thing to slip out of it presently; and for other and better people to take up their work, and carry it on for their day too."
Problems for Discussion
Discuss the effects of (a) lack of sunshine, (b) proper ventilation, (c) overcrowding, (d) unsanitary conditions, on the health and morale of the family. What is the effect on adolescents of overcrowded homes without attractions or room for the visits of friends or home entertainment? How may a dilapidated house develop in its inmates a personality handicap? Discuss good standards of housing in regard to number of rooms according to the size of the family (no more than two persons to a room), water supply, heating, lighting, house-keeping conveniences, toilets, screens, cleanliness? Are LESSON DEPARTMENT there any housing problems in your community? Any slums? Are provisions made for playgrounds in your community; for parks and open spaces as the community grows? In what ways can women help to improve housing conditions, such as proper water supply, sewage, the disposal of garbage? Discuss the housing plans of the Federal government; of your local governments.
Mission Lessons
LESSON V. HEALTH AND HOME NURSING
BURNS AND BRUISES
"Better be safe than sorry."
BUT no injury is more distressing or more painful than a superficial burn. There is no other injury so dangerous to life, as an extensive and serious burn. Burns involving more than one-half the surface of the body, in most cases, end fatally. The gravity of the burn depends upon its situation, as well as the depth and extent of the burn. Burns about the head, the chest or the abdomen are more serious than those of the limbs. Scalds are due to moist heat?as steam or hot water, while burns are produced by dry heat, such as a flame or hot iron, but in the end the result is the same, a painful injury. Fortunately the number of deaths from burns is decreasing. This is due largely to the fact that electricity has replaced the old kerosene lamp. Burns are so unnecessary, A little more care, a few more precautions about the home may save the child from the agony and the disfigurement due to a bad burn. Too many children have died, or been disfigured for life because someone was careless. Children must be protected from open fireplaces. Tubs or kettles of hot water or other hot substance, must not be left within the reach of children who do not realize the danger involved. Every child is attracted by fire; and a box of matches holds untold wonders for him. The responsibility rests with the parents and in some countries now, it is a punishable offense to leave a child under seven years of age alone in a room with an unprotected fire. When the clothing is on fire, the best way to extinguish it, is to wrap the person in a blanket and smother the flames. In place of a blanket? a coat, a rug or a piece of carpet may be used. The treatment of burns or scalds depends, naturally, upon the extent and depth of the injury. For the small trivial burns received daily about the home; a tube or jar of standard burn ointment should be found upon every medicine shelf. The proper thing to do is to have a small package of gauze, some clean cotton and a bandage nearby. Cut a pieces of gauge a little larger than the area burned. Next, butter it freely with the ointment, and put it, buttered side down on the burn. Over the gauze now place a generous layer of cotton. A small bandage will hold the dressing in place. Dress the burn daily, and always in this same way. In place of the burn ointment, we may use plain vaseline, castor oil, olive oil, or a thick mixture of baking soda. We may use muslin in place of gauze and a cord string to hold the dressing in place, but these we should remember are only substitutes for the proper treatment. Boric acid ointment and picric acid gauze have their advocates and can be used as a dressing for burns. The severe or extensive burn must always be left to the treatment of the doctor and the hospital. It is important that we remember how to help the patient until the doctor arrives?First, by relieving the pain and treating the shock. With a severe body burn, a bathtub of warm water, into which a pound of baking soda has been dissolved, will form a haven of rest for the burned individual. Remove the clothing and put him in immediately. Paregoric will help relieve the pain, and should always be given. If it is necessary to give stimulants, a teaspoonful of aromatic spirits of ammonia in one-half glass of cold water is very good. Keep the burned person warm and give him all the fluids he will take. In the beginning, food is not important. Chemical burns from strong acids, or alkalies, such as carbolic acid or lye, require much washing with warm water. Running water is best. These burns are then dressed as ordinary burns or scalds.
WOUNDS
Any break in the skin is called a wound. The skin is the protective covering of the body and any injury that destroys this covering forms an entrance for infection. We have all been surprised at times to see how rapidly a deep and painful cut has healed, on the other hand it has been a matter of great surprise how much trouble could come from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE just a small wound on the finger or hand. Weeks of suffering may follow such a wound and in the end a damaged hand. Stepping on the point of a rusty nail in the summer-time might be a very trivial thing and again it might be a very serious thing. Why are some wounds more serious than others? The answer is GERMS, enemies too small to be seen. If certain germs are introduced beneath the skin and the wound is not properly cleansed, disaster is bound to follow. When the wound bleeds well, and washes the germs out, and others do not get in, there is little pain, and the wound heals rapidly. In the light of present day knowledge we must no longer say, "My blood is out of order, because every little scratch festers so,' or "my wound is very painful because I have taken cold in it." The festering and the cold in the wound mean the presence of germs and the activity of these germs is responsible for the process which we call inflammation. The wise individual is the one who considers all wounds as full of germs, and who does not trust to chance, but cleans each immediately after the accident. We have to deal mainly with three kinds of wounds. First?Incised Wounds; These are due to cuts from glass, knives, etc. They bleed freely, are easily cleansed and as a rule, give very little trouble. Second?Lacerated or Torn Wounds; These are made by blunt instruments, the edges are ragged, they do not bleed so freely, and are more difficult to cleanse from germs and are longer in healing. Third?Punctured Wounds. These are made by the point of an instrument?by nails, ice picks, bullets, etc. The wounds do not bleed, they are impossible to cleanse and are very dangerous. LESSON DEPARTMENT The best disinfectant to use in the home is the ordinary Tincture of Iodine, diluted one-half with alcohol. The druggist will make up this solution for you and a small bottle will last a long time.
TREATMENT
Do not wash wounds with water. If they have dirt or grease ground in them, cleanse with alcohol, or turpentine. Stop the bleeding. Dry the wound with clean sterile gauze?from a sealed packet. With a little cotton on a toothpick, paint the sides and depth of the wound, using the diluted Iodine mixture. Wait until it drys, and apply the dressing. If no gauze is at hand, scorch a clean white rag and use it as a covering. It is better that no covering at all be used if it cannot be clean. Wounds that are deep, about the face or hands, where scarring may be ungainly, should always be repaired by a physician. The punctured wound is the real problem, because it is so difficult to cleanse. If the wound has been made by a nail, first?squeeze it gently, to promote bleeding. Second?take a toothpick and with a little cotton wound firmly around the end, dip it in the Iodine mixture then follow the course of the nail, and leave a generous supply of the disinfectant in the wound. Third?paint the edges for at least one inch beyond, then wait until it drys. Fourth? apply a clean dressing. If the wound is in the foot, elevate and rest it for a few days, to be sure that no bad results follow. Rusty nails, in the summer-time, especially about the barnyard, are dangerous, because of the "lock jaw germs" they carry. It is best to have the doctor treat the wounds resulting from these nails. Most such wounds require the giving of tetanus antitoxin. It is better to be safe than sorry. Dog bites are punctured wounds and require the same thorough treatment. If the dog be Rabid, professional advice is imperative. The treatment of poisonous snake bites should be immediate and thorough. The fangs of the snake leave two small holes or a punctured wound which must be cauterized. The symptoms of severe pain, swelling about the wound, vomiting, and extreme weakness, develop rapidly. Apply a bandage or handkerchief above the wound?tight enough to prevent the blood flowing back through the veins. With a sharp knife, sterilized, make two cross cut incisions?not more than one-half inch in length?through the wound. These cuts promote bleeding. Apply suction to the wound by the aid of the mouth or suction pump. The bandage, which has been tied above the wound to prevent the poison blood from returning should not be left longer than one hour. Use tincture of Iodine as a final disinfectant. Dry and dress as any other punctured wound.
BRUISES
The Black Eye. This is merely one form of bruise. A handkerchief or towel should, be wrung out of ice water and applied immediately and continuously for one hour. After the first day, if there is extreme discoloration use hot applications. Never use beef steak as a treatment for black eye. Bruises need no attention unless they are painful or very extensive. If the skin is unbroken, there is no danger of infection. Cold applications afford most relief?and ice bags, and rest is always good treatment for bruises. For the treatment of a mashed finger, which is always painful, use RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cold, running water. Perhaps more important, if the nail is involved, is the application of the dentist's drill, or the circular motion of a pen knife, for the purpose of drilling a small hole in the nail, relieving the pressure caused by the blood under the nail. This procedure relieves the pain almost immediately and may save the nail. When any wound is red or swollen, and throbs with every beat of the heart, towels wrung out of hot Epsom Salts water, and applied, will relieve the pain and the swelling, and also aid in healing. If the wound is discharging pus freely it is well to cover it with a moist dressing ? gauze wrung from boiling water. It is, however, important that the gauze be not contaminated?that it be handled by the edges only. The effective treatment of wounds depends upon thorough and immediate cleansing and the continued applications of clean, sterile, dressings, until the wound has healed.
Our Magazine Campaign
WE thank our agents for the very fine work done during their Magazine Drive. Never have subscriptions poured in as they have this year. We now have by far the largest subscription list we have ever had. We publish herewith the Stakes that have sent in their percentage, also the Wards attaining the goal of 75% or over. We hope the Stakes that have not yet sent in their reports will do so at once. We realize that the success attained in this Drive has meant careful planning, enthusiastic campaigning and persistent effort. We thank all who have worked so hard. We realize that some have put forth great effort and have been disappointed in the results, but they should remember that the seeds they have sown may bear fruit later on. We feel sure that some Stakes and Wards that have not done as well as they hoped to do may reach their anticipated goal in January.
SOME Stakes have presented pageants, many have used banks and have been delighted with the results. Our bookkeeper had to get a taxi to take her and her load of pennies to the bank, they were too heavy to be carried. The Weber County Stakes had a very fine window display as an advertising scheme. Poems and songs were written to aid the cause and in every way wholehearted enthusiastic work has been done in our various Wards. We hope in later issues of the Magazine to present some of the plays and poems and a write-up of the window display and other items that may be sent in, showing how the Stakes attained their results. Union Stake has the highest record yet received with 121%, and Baker Ward has the highest percentage of any Ward with 154%. So far Maricopa is the only Stake that reports 100% for each of its 13 Wards. Laura M. McRae is Stake agent. One of their Wards, Mesa 2nd, tops their list with 113%. Lucy D. Chesley is the Magazine agent of this Ward. The Whitney Ward, Franklin Stake, reports that they have doubled their subscription list this year. Columbia, South Carolina last year had one subscription. This year they have six. The Sandy 2nd Ward last year was the lowest in their Stake, with 19%. This year under the able LESSON DEPARTMENT direction of Fleda J. Larson, they have come up to 100%.
WARDS 100% OR OVER
WARD STAKE Enroll No. Sub. Name of Agent Adams Los Angeles 76 76 Carrie Ainge Alpine St. Johns 16 16 Presidency acting Baker Union 37 57 Nettie Shurtliff Balboa San Francisco 38 45 Fredricka Duffner Bason Big Horn
Beaver Creek Idaho Falls 12 12 Veda Black Compton Los Angeles 44 46 Henney S. Thomas Davis Uintah 35 36 May Andrew Dividend Tintic 29 30 Netta Burton 18th Ward Mt. Ogden 87 106 Alice Buxton Evans Branch Box Elder 17 19 Sadie Buist Ensign 1st Ward Ensign 78 82 Emma Stringham 4th Ward Union 40 62 Caroline C. Baron Glines Box Elder 45 45 Mary Yates Harper Uintah 30 31 Mattie Westenscow Jensen Box Elder 18 18 Phebe Markham Imbler Ward Uintah 34 36 Ruby J. Tanner Leland Union 15 21 Minnie Haynes Linrose Palmyra 37 37 Effie Jensen Lomita Franklin 14 14 Nancy Nelson Long Beach Los Angeles 23 23 Arvina Moore Lyman Los Angeles 123 128 Julia Searle Meeteetse Fremont 37 37 Emma Tvednes Manchester Big Horn
Oakland Los Angeles 54 59 Louise Hawley Penrose San Francisco 55 56 Blanch Harmon Powell Big Horn 9 9 Madge Lookinland Rexburg 2 Big Horn
Richmond Fremont 93 98 Emily Rendles San Pedro San Francisco 22 27 Mattie Vogel 2nd Ward Los Angeles 34 35 Genevieve B. Olsen 17th Ward Union 35 38 Alma Erickson 2nd Ward Mt. Ogden 58 68 Edna Langton 12-13th Ward Box Elder 77 77 Nora Sparks 20th Ward Ensign 92 95 Seline Richards 27th Ward Ensign 104 107 Drucella Dodge Twin Groves Ensign 90 95 Pres. Mary G. Boyle Torrence Yellowstone 36 40 Coral Iverson Uintah Los Angeles 26 26 Lois Jarman Vermont Mt. Ogden 20 21 Minnie Willis Vernal 1st Los Angeles 39 40 Janie Tolman Wilmington Uintah 78 91
Worland Los Angeles 32 33
Burnham Big Horn
Young 48 52
WARDS 75% OR OVER
WARD STAKE Enroll No. Sub. Name of Agent Alameda San Francisco 30 26 MaRae Meuter Ashley Uintah 21 20 Marian McIntosh Basin Cassia 12 10 Emma Ashcraft Burley Second Burley 81 61 Ruth Bentley Burlingame San Francisco 29 26 Pearl Prater Burton Fremont 42 35 Minnie Ellsworth Burlington Big Horn 36 27
Dimond San Francisco 61 46
WARDS 75% OR OVER (Continued)
WARD STAKE Enroll No. Sub. % (% of enroll sub) Name of Agent Eager St. Johns 107 86 80 Naomi Whale Home Gardens Los Angeles 54 41 76 Genevieve Anderson Huntington Park Los Angeles 91 69 76 Amy Affleck Junction Garfield 65 77 118 La Prele Lynn La Point Uintah 30 29 97 Hattie N. Tolman Logan 11th Logan 101 76 75 Agnes Turnbow Lovell Big Horn 101 78 77 Nellie P. Elsinga Luna St. Johns 12 10 83 Azuba Alder Marion Cassia 25 20 80 Jennie Hardy Mathews Los Angeles 57 49 86 Gerda Anderson Naples Uintah 54 41 76 Millie Johnson Nibley Park Granite 96 78 81 Magazine Agent Nutrioso St. Johns 22 18 81 Eliza Thompson Otto Big Horn 30 25 83 Rose Neeley Preston 5th Franklin 32 24 75 Mae Smith Rexburg 1st Fremont 85 68 80 Jeanette S. Barton Richards Granite 84 69 82 Florence Webster San Francisco San Francisco 57 44 77 Irene N. Wooton Sunset San Francisco 40 39 98 Martha Fagg Tridell Uintah 46 40 87 Ella C. Richards Vernal 2nd Uintah 71 65 92 Hannah O. Pratt Elizabeth Geary Allie Y. Pond Mrs, A. U. Miner Sadie Chadwick Maud M. Davis
STAKE PERCENTAGES
STAKE Enrollment No. Sub. % Box Elder 951 515 54 Ensign 745 593 80 Cassia 167 112 66 Franklin 593 255 43 Fremont 903 576 64 Granite 1184 542 46 Grant 619 212 34 Idaho Falls 824 389 47 Logan 846 385 46 Los Angeles 823 726 88 Morgan 252 96 38 Mt. Ogden 535 414 77 North Sanpete 689 207 30 San Francisco 528 404 76 Sharon 105
Tintic 868
Uintah 469 441 94 Union 189 229 121 Wasatch 600 214 35 St. Johns 285 183 64
Note: Some reports were not complete.
She hung festoons of happiness in quiet eyes And sprinkled stars on paths the lonely trod, She lit fresh tapers for worn, restless hands That tired searchers might still seek their God.
By Claire S. Boyer Julia Whitehead Mrs. A. B. Johnson Josephine Hanks Lacy Swain Zella B. Whiting
HAVE YOUR FRIENDS GONE TO COLLEGE?
The "danger point" in the careers of many young men and young women has now been reached. Those who make no plans for the future will soon lag behind. But there is still time! The shortest, quickest way to enter the business world is to take a thorough Secretarial or Accounting course. There's work ahead for those who are prepared.
BEGIN YOUR TRAINING NOW!
Send for free booklet, "Planning Your Future."
L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City
Select Your Christmas Cards while our stock is complete. You will find here just the card you want.
The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street?Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
IT WILL BE A PLEASURE IF YOU HAVE MADE PROVISION FOR FUTURE THROUGH THE BENEFICIAL LIFE SAFETY-SAVINGS PLAN. HAVE A BENEFICIAL REPRESENTATIVE EXPLAIN THE MANY SPECIAL ADVANTAGES OF BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE.
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT E. T. RALPHS, GEN. MGR. HOME OFFICE SALT LAKE CITY
DIRECTORS: HEBER J. GRANT JOS. F. SMITH J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. S. F. GRANT GEO. J. CANNON DAVID O. MCKAY E. T. RALPHS A. B. C. OHLSON