Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon December—the joy of the Christmas time is to lighten other's burdens. QUEEN MARIE of Romania, sometimes called "The mother-in-law of the Balkans" and still the most fascinating queen in Europe, is now working on the third volume of her "Memoirs." The story of a princess whose life has been so in-. Terwoven with all the phases, social and political of Europe's reigning houses—the Hanoverians, the Hapsburgs, the Romanoffs, the Hohenzollerns, with their splendor, pomp and magnificence, not forgetting their tragedies, has made a popular appeal. This intimate andpicturesque portrayal could be told by no other living person. MESS JOSEPHINE ROCHE of Colorado becomes the first woman of the "Little Cabinet" by her appointment as assistant to Secretary Morgentheau of the treasury. MARIA JERITZA, Vienna's famous prima donna, has been awarded the Officers' Gold Medal by the Austrian Republic. She is the first woman to receive this distinction. JULIA DENT GRANT, former Princess Cantaenzone of Russia, has renounced her title and become again a citizen of the United States. She expects to take an active part in the political life of her native country. YOUR WOMEN were noted members of the administrative council of 24 at the Episcopal convention held this fall. This is a fine recognition of the ability, generosity and effective work of the women of the church. JEANETTE PICARD was pilot for her husband in their daring flight into the stratosphere. They reached the height of ten miles above the earth in seven hours and forty-eight minutes. Dr ANNA P. BOUDIMN is director of the dentistry section of the New York infirmary for women and children; she is also a member of the staff of the Bellvue Hospital. HORTENSE McQUARRIE ODLUM, a Utah woman, has made a great success in business in New York and is president and manager of a big Manhattan smart shop. RS. LORINE PRUETTE, psychologist, writer andlecturer, has recently published a most readable book, "Women Through the Depression." MBS. BLANCHE K. McKEY has been recognized among American lyricists having had poems included three times by editors of Anthologies. Mrs. McKey is a member of the gifted family of the late R. K. Thomas and Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, a former: member of the general board of the Relief Society. ANNIE PIKE GREENWOOD, a favorite poet of Utah, has written a new book, "We Sagebrush Folks." It is an interesting interpretation of farm psychology also autobiographical. "My Normandy," by Mary Cabel: "Women Over Forty,” by Sarah Trent: "Tomorrow is Another Day," by Henrietta Buckmaster "Next Vear's Rose," by Diana Patrick, are some of the new books by women this winter.