Making the Christmas Story Live By Ethel Hale Jeffery O my first baby, Christmas was ushered in with beautiful lights, a tree all aglow, bells, tinsel, and presents; a toy dog to hug, and a beautiful red ball. How he danced on my lap and clapped his hands with glee. To each of the three children that followed it was the same. Christmas came to mean a beautifully lighted tree, Santa Claus and presents. Santa was real. Of their lives. How was I to teach them the real significance of Christmas. Their little minds could not revel in this wonderful pageantry of Santa, glitter, and toys, and concentrate on the story of the Christ Child. There must be something more concrete. I tried pictures. They enjoyed them while I told the story but their minds were soon back to Santa and the toys. An article in the Parents' Magazine by Mrs. Curtis gave me inspiration. She made the Christmas story live with a little manger scene of modeled figures, she found in a quaint village in Germany. This wonderful article is in the December number of The Parents' Magazine for 1932. Then in our own Relief Soctety Magazine came the wonderful department—Young Mothers and Happy Mothers, and the article on decorating windows for holidays and how to make a little manger scene. Here was real inspiration. We were in the city a few days later and after going through shops and department stores for several days we found, just as we were ready to return home, a little manger scene on light cardboard to be cut out and set up. It was beautiful. Christmas was the thrill I HAD thought that we would wait until a few days before Christmas to set it up. But the children would not wait. So the second day after reaching home we spent the whole afternoon with it. I told the story as we cut it out and each child held the little figures reverently. Even the baby, only eighteen months old, seemed to sense the sacredness of it. There was a little stall, a manger, two angels, the baby Jesus, Mary, Joseph, the shepherds. A lamb, and a donkey, and the three wise men on their camels with their gifts. A star shone above the manger. Every part had to be explained even to the gifts of the wise men, 'what they were and why they were given to the Baby Jesus. It was so much more than a picture. As I answered their questions and explained each little figure, it became real to them. And when "daddy" came in they were eager to show the scene to him and tell him all about it. They were anxious to show it, and tell the story to every visitor who came in. Not having a fireplace we put it on the piano. There it shed its influence until weeks after Christmas when we felt it must be put away and preserved for another year. HAT the Christmas story might be impressed deeper upon their minds we decided to use the story in our window decoration. There was no snow or frost so we gave the windows a frosted effect. We cut silhouettes from white crepe paper. We cut the paper to fit the bottom of the panes coming up the sides as the frost would on a cold morning. MAKING THE CHRISTMAS STORY LIVE Emerging from the deep frost were the pictures. In the south window we represented the shepherds tending their flock with the angels singing and the bright star over head. For the east window were the wise men following the star. When the pictures were cut out we covered them with a thin coat of paste and sprinkled artificial snow over them. When this was dry we spread a thin coat of paste on the window pane and pressed the picture carefully to it, sprinkled a little snow around the edges and wiped away the excessive paste. The effect was wonderful. The children loved these window pictures as they did the manger scene. They were part of the story. What a lovely Christmas we had. Of course there was the tree and Santa and the other decorations. But the Christmas story still lives in their minds and they are anxious to again set up the litlte stable and put the "shepherds and wise men on the windows." To my children Santa is still real. 751 But I hope that he will soon fall into the background as the spirit of love and giving while Christ becomes the prominent figure of Christmas. This is the most worth while thing I have ever done for my children. It is worth the time of the busiest of mothers. If you can't get the manger scene from a five and ten cent store you can get one from Sears, Roebuck and Company, or make the scene as Mrs. Josephsen suggests. Here is a recipe for paste: To three cups of boiling water add one cup of flour which has been stirred into enough water to make a smooth, easily poured paste. If it is hard to remove all the lumps, strain it before adding it to the boiling water. Pour a tiny stream into the boiling water stirring all the time. Let cook ten minutes. Remove from the fire and add one level tablespoon of salicylic acid, to preserve the paste, and one teaspoonful of oil of cloves, to give it a pleasant odor. Pour into jars and seal with paraffin. This paste will keep indefinitely if kept covered. It may be used as it is or with a little water when thin paste is needed.