The First American Christmas By Cecelia Jensen
TREES and tinsel played no part in the first 25th of December on the American Continent. There was no gleeful childish laughter—no steaming Christmas dinner. The rock bound coast of New England had lain too many years in solitude to provide a hearty welcome for its new inhabitants.
We would like to at least imagine these hardy Pilgrims as grouped around luscious wild goose and turkey, but the record they have left in the "Journal of the Pilgrims" and "Gov. Bradford's History" tells a vastly different story. So precious was each piece of game or bit of Indian corn, that every occasion of securing them was carefully noted in their journals. It was written on November 28 "we had three fat geese and six ducks to our supper, which we eat with soldier's stomach." No similar record is made until January 4th. On that day a group of four or five men under the leadership of Capt. Standish went out in search of the savages whose fires they had seen about. "As they came home they shot at an eagle and killed her, which was excellent meat; it was hardly to be discerned from mutton." Another record shows that on "Friday, 5 January, one of the sailors found alive upon the shore a herring which the master had to his supper, which put us in hopes of fish, but as yet we had got but one cod; we wanted small hooks." On January 7, they succeeded in securing "three great seals, and an excellent good cod." They were evidently not so favored on Christmas day for there is no record made of their securing any meat.
VERY scanty were the supplies on board ship. The larder contained beer, butter, flesh and other foods such as "cheese" and "hogsheads of meal," the 'meal' consisting of wheat and rye flour. Before their departure from England, rather than run in debt to their closefisted patron Thomas Weston, they had sold ninety firkins of their butter, so no doubt their butter was thinly spread.
The following excerpt taken from the "Journal of the Pilgrims" graphically pictures the bleak cheerlessness of Christmas day.
"On ye 24 day towards night some as they were at worke, heard a noyse of some Indians, which caused us all to go to our Muskets, but we heard no further, so we came aboord againe, & left some twentie to keepe the court of gard; that night we had a sore storme of winde & rayne.
"Munday the 25, being Christmas day, we begin to drink water aboord, but at night the Master caused 'us to have somee Beere, & on boord we had diverse times now and then some Beere, but on shore none at all."
Scanty as seems the Christmas fare on board ship, it was rich indeed compared with that on shore. To these "twentie men" left to guard was assigned the task of building the first Pilgrim dwelling, as recorded in "Gov. Bradford's History," ch. X. 'Ye 25 day (they) began to erecte ye first house for comone use to receive them and their goods."
All day long that cheerless Christmas day, the choppers chopped, split wood and sawed. Strange beings, indeed, they must have seemed to those painted Indians and wild animals prowling about them, curious as to who was invading their domain. All day long in their dark doublets and hose and broad brimmed hats, they sent the "butter-colored chips" flying into the snow. The day was cold and raw, some of their friends were sick and dying and others had contracted severe colds from wading to their hips through the sea to land.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Their Christmas dinner probably consisted of a piece of bread put into their dinner pails when they left the ship. Far away upon another continent their loved ones prayed for their well being, while here they prepared a place in which they might worship their Master freely. Fitting indeed, it was that upon the anniversary of his birth into the world they began laying the cornerstone of a nation into which should come the restoration of his Gospel.