I AM going to approach my theme today with three observations which I know every mother, every teacher in the Relief Society can take to herself in encouragement. The first of these is a realization of the responsibility of the teacher; the second is an appreciation of the opportunities that you have to reach childhood through motherhood; and third, the possibility each one has of teaching by power and example.
Do you know that while we have been considering this problem during the last hour that one hundred and eighty babies have been born in the United States—twenty-two and a half babies every seven and a half minutes? According to statistics only one out of these twenty-two and a half little babies will attain to a high degree of intelligence. Seven and a half will have the intelligence of a normal ten-year-old child, that is all through life. One and a half will be potential criminals; the other twelve and a half will range between the highest and the lowest grades of intelligence. From birth to death men differ. They vary as much as do flowers in a garden. In intellect, in temperament, in energy, and in training some rise to one level and some to another. The successful teacher is one who, with a spirit of discernment, can detect to a degree at least, the mentality and capability of the members of his class. He should be able to read the facial expressions and be responsive to the mental and spiritual attitudes of those whom he is teaching. The Great Teacher had this power of discernment in perfection as is well illustrated in His conversation with the woman of Samaria whose interests he not only interpreted, but whose soul He read by virtue of her past deeds. Too few teachers have this gift, even to a necessary degree, but every teacher has the responsibility of determining how best to approach the members of the class in order to make appeals that will be lasting. Fortunately our mothers have this gift of discernment naturally, and therefore I am merely calling your attention to this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE responsibility that is yours to study the members of your class.
"TEACHING is the noblest profession in the world. Upon the proper education of youth depend the permanency and purity of home, the safety and perpetuity of the nation. The parent gives the child an opportunity to live; the teacher enables the child to live well. That parent who gives life and teaches his child to live abundantly is the true parent-teacher.
However, today the customs and demands of society are such that the responsibility of training the child to live well is largely, and in too many instances, shifted entirely from the parent to the teacher. In the ideal state, the teacher would be but the parent's ally, training the mind and encouraging worthy habits, and fostering noble traits of character inculcated by wise parental teaching and example, but in reality, the teacher, instead of being merely an ally must become the foster parent in training the child in the art of living. If that were all, his responsibility would be great enough; but it is not all. Often he faces even the greater task of overcoming the false teaching and improper training of unwise, irresponsible parents.
In the light of such self-evident facts, I think it must be apparent to every thinking mind that the noblest of all professions is that of teaching, and that upon the effectiveness of that teaching, hangs the destiny of nations.
"All who have meditated on the art of governing mankind," says Aristotle, "have been convinced that the fate of empires depends upon the education of youth."
With this thought in mind of parental responsibility, and, where neglected, the double duty OPPORTUNITIES OF THE CLASS TEACHER thrown upon the teacher, we see clearly the first great opportunity of the Relief Society class teacher. Hers is the privilege of meeting mothers, of inspiring them with the sacredness of motherhood, and of assisting them in the supreme art of training and guiding childhood.
I esteem it a privilege to look into your faces today and project in my mind your influence as you transmit it to those mothers who study in the class of literature, the gospel lessons you present, or listen to your presentation of social service. I go beyond that to those mothers who are silent, and do not come up and say "thank you," and who permit you to go home discouraged. If we could go with them into their respective homes where they meet their children, we should see that they resume their duties of motherhood with just a little more ability to train them because you have taught them even this one thing—the sense of responsibility.
The general objectives in our public schools should be to assist the individual in the proper development of his physical, intellectual and spiritual nature, that he may become of value to his country and of service to his fellow man. This objective can be accomplished only on the basis of true education. And what is true education?
"It is awakening a love for truth; giving a just sense of duty; opening the eyes of the soul to the great purpose and end of life. It is not so much giving words, as thoughts; or mere maxims, as living principles. It is not teaching to be honest, because 'honesty is the best policy'; but because it is right. It is teaching the individual to love the good, for the sake of the good; to be virtuous in action because one is so in heart; to love and serve God supremely not from fear, but from delight in His perfect character."
No one can successfully controvert the fact that upon the teacher rests much of the responsibility of lifting society to this high ideal.
SOME of you have in your homes a picture depicting Christ as a youth standing before learned men in the Temple. In that picture the artist has combined physical strength, intellectual fire, moral beauty, and spiritual fervor. There is an ideal for every boy in the land! I ask you, fellow-teachers, to take the artist's brush and canvas, and try to reproduce that picture of perfect youth! You hesitate! You say you have neither the skill nor the training? Very well; and yet every person who enters the profession of teaching assumes the responsibility not of attempting to put on canvas an ideal picture of youth, but to make out of a living, breathing soul a perfect character.
"If we work upon marble, it will perish; if on brass, time will efface it; if we rear temples, they will crumble into dust; but if we work upon immortal minds, and imbue them with principles, with the just fear of God and love of our fellowmen—we engrave on those tablets something that will brighten through all eternity."
The responsibility of the teacher, however, does not end in his duty to teach truth positively. He enters the realm of what-not-to-do, as well as the realm of what-to-do. In the garden of the human soul, as well as in the fields of human endeavor, there are thorns and thistles as well as flowers and useful plants. Thrice deserving of condemnation is he who would crush in a boy's mind a flower of truth, and sow in its stead the seed of error! Hence the importance of the teacher's knowing what she is teaching, conscientiously believing that it is in harmony with God and truth. I merely throw out the thought because you can go down on your knees in your home, and ask God to give you the power to speak truth.
Wise parents and leading educators in the nation today realize that good citizenship can be attained only through character development. The sincere teacher realizes that hers is the opportunity to inculcate the virtues that contribute to the building of true manhood and womanhood. Hers is the sublime task to lead children and youth to believe that compliance with high moral standards leads to success and happiness. Hers is the opportunity to try, at least, to have each boy and girl accept the standard of the "Children's Morality Code":
"I believe:
That self-control is a source of strength, spiritually and physically, which helps me to serve well my fellows, my country, and the world.
"That spiritual and physical health increase my own happiness, protects the health of others, and keeps me fit for work and service.
"That kindness spreads happiness through polite and generous treatment of human beings and humane treatment of all over living things.
"That good sportsmanship gladly recognizes the rights of others and graciously wins or loses in work or play on a basis of simple justice to all.
"That I must learn day by day to rely upon myself even while I reverence the wisdom of others and wish to profit by it. By relying upon myself I can grow resourceful, courageous, independent, thoughtful, and thus help in shaping the destiny of the world.
"That I must do my duty at all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE costs in order that I may not live a burden on the world by doing less than my share of its work and may not fail to defend my own rights or the rights of others when justly called upon to do so.
"That reliability is the basis of happiness in living together and that I must therefore make myself a reliable person, a trustworthy citizen, honest in thought, and word, and act; one in whom others may safely place their trust.
"That the good workman is careful, energetic and persevering and that the world's progress depends upon his ability and faithfulness. I also understand that by always doing the best I can I become a member of the great Brotherhood of Good Workmen who have provided all the necessities and comforts of life since time began.
"That I am one player in a vast team but that, while only one, I have an influence for local, national and world betterment, which I must use because the hope of democracy lies in the ability of people to live and work in peaceful cooperation.
"That the welfare and happiness of my home, my school, my city depend on my loyalty and, because I live here in the United States, partake of its advantages and believe in its principles of government, I further understand the necessity for placing before my own private welfare the general good of all.
"That obedience to law protects the fundamentals of our government,—freedom, justice, equality,—and that to do my share in preserving these for the generations to come after me I must be intelligently obedient to all lawful orders of my superiors in every walk of life.
"Because I understand all these things, I hereby resolve to make continuous effort so to conduct myself in private and public life that I shall be, as fully as in me lies, a strong, helpful character, true to my ideals, a credit and help to my family, my nation and our world."
And so we sum all that up in these words, yours is the opportunity to teach mothers, and through these mothers their children, that they owe a responsibility to the home, to the State, to the Church and to God. They are not living for themselves, they are living for others.
To live an upright life, to conform to high ethical standards is the responsibility and duty of every teacher in the land. Greater even than this is the responsibility of the religious teacher. The religious teacher's profession is higher than that of the teacher in the common school; for, in addition to his belief in the efficacy of ethical and moral precepts, the religious teacher assumes the responsibility of leading the youth into the realm of spirituality. His duty comporting with his pretention and profession is to open the eyes of the blind that they may see God.
O, it is wonderful to find "Tongues in trees, books in running brooks, sermons. In stones, and good in everything."
It is a glorious achievement to lead a lonely hungering soul out of the maze of temporal, sensual materiality into the enduring realm of spirituality.
"What is there in man so worthy of honor and reverence as this, that he is capable of contemplating something higher than his own reason, more sublime than the whole universe—that spirit which alone is self-subsistent, from which all truth proceeds, without which there is no truth?"
Leading youth to know God, to have faith in His laws, to have confidence in His Fatherhood, and to find solace and peace in His love—this is the greatest privilege, the most sublime opportunity offered the true educator.
FIFTEEN miles from Vernal, Uintah County, stands a hill over which people walked and rode at intervals for years without seeing anything unusual about it. They noticed two great rocks uniform in size, but to men bent upon pioneer duties they were only rocks. One day a man from the Carnegie Institute walked over the same hill. The nature of the rocks suggested to him that they probably belonged to the Jurassic period of the world's history. He knew that in these strata are sometimes found fossils of huge animals that once roamed over parts of the earth. What were only common rocks to the farmer, the cattleman, and the pioneer were to the trained mind of the scientist, fossilized remains of two vertebrae of a gigantic creature that had been extinct for centuries. In the course of a short time this discoverer had a force of men carefully uncovering these fossilized remains, and the people of the surrounding valley looked on with interest and amazement, as a dinosaur, sixty-five feet long and thirty-five feet high was disclosed to view. Following indications as he perceived them, this educator in the realm of science, by great effort and expense unearthed one of the finest specimens perhaps yet discovered. Others have since been unearthed, one of which is on display in our own University, and others are still lying in their original position in the quarry.
So men go through this life, catching occasional glimpses of a higher, a spiritual world; but unfortunately, they remain satisfied with but a glimpse, and refuse to put forth the effort required to uncover the beauties and glories of that spiritual realm. They sense it blindly. Crowded by temporal demands, some there are who lose sight of even the indications. The game of life is fascinating, and when men enter it they enter to win. To win becomes the sole aim of life. The merchant, for example, wishes to succeed, no matter what it costs, though it be honor itself. The politician (not the statesman) enters the political world to satisfy his ambition, regardless of serving the community or his country. Thus, men lose sight of the high things of life; worldly things crush the spiritual light flickering within the soul. Some follow the will-o-wisp of indulgence, of passion, become dupes of an illusion, they soon begin to grovel. Truly as Wordsworth says:
"The world is too much with us; Late and soon, getting and spending, we lay waste our powers. Little we see in nature that is ours; We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon."
The most cherished opportunities of the religious teacher should be to lead the child to see, through the trouble and turmoil of a physical world, that "in all His dispensations God is at work for our good. In prosperity He tries our gratitude; in mediocrity, our contentment; in misfortune, our submission; in darkness, our faith; under temptation, our steadfastness; and at all times, our obedience and trust in Him."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
To summarize: The great profession of teacher involves to a greater or less extent the responsibility of parenthood, and that of the highest leadership among men. It means a life endeavor to know the truth, and a constant, sincere desire to lead others to obtain this same knowledge. It means an exemplary life, for virtuous actions are but the result of a virtuous heart. The teacher's duty is also that of a watchman, and from his tower he warns fiery, brilliant youth from the realm of wasteful indulgence, and points to the higher realm of self-mastery and true service.
All this should be every teacher's responsibility, but the religious teacher's is even more—it is his opportunity and privilege to lead his pupils over moral and ethical hills to the glorious heights of spiritual reality—where the spirit of man may receive the illumination and inspiration of God's Holy Spirit, by the light of which every youth may obtain the realization of what Millikan says is the most important thing in the world: "The consciousness of the reality of moral and spiritual values."
I leave my blessing with the teachers of mothers, and pray God to let their influence extend from those mothers to the boys and girls of Zion, that faith may be implanted in their hearts that they may remain true and valiant to the everlasting principles of the Gospel, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
Stories About Joseph Smith The Prophet
Is the title of a book just issued from the Press of the Deseret News, Salt Lake City. It is a work of 192 pages, compiled by Edwin F. Parry as a companion volume of his "Joseph Smith's Teachings." Readers will be thrilled with its contents, as it is interesting from beginning to finish. A suitable present for Christmas. The Deseret Book Co. Price $1.00 postpaid.