RELIEF SOCIETY Peace on Earth (A Christmas Story) By Marguerite Johnson Griffin I was the day before Christmas, and Jim Brock walked slowly with leaden feet out of the employee's entrance belonging to the large firm of Morton Furniture Manufacturers. His head was down. His worn and shapeless hat drooped over eyes which had lost all luster of happiness, over eyes in which lay the strain of despair. Others rushed gaily past him, brushing his elbows roughly in their eagerness to get away and do a little last minute shopping in some. Of the department stores before they closed. Others were happily engrossed with their own holiday plans, while he.— There was no joy awaiting him. Only despair, worry, disappointment. Only bitter news to tell his family when he reached their humble door that he was to be laid off indefinitely. Christmas Eve! He must go home bearing a pay envelope which contained a paltry fifteen dollars, knowing that that must last until he could get another job. And how long would that be? How long must that money be made to buy food, warmth, and shelter for his little brood? There was Sally who would graduate from high school in June, if only he could keep her going. Sally, gentle, loving, and talented, whose nimble fingers were those of the artist. If he could just provide for her the chance in life that she deserved and was soon to be ready for, art school. He sighed. No job. Where could he get another? There was Bob, just'starting high school. Dear, precious, brave little Bob who had had to do so much for himself. Bob who rose early and studied late in order that he might deliver the morning paper as well as the evening news just so that he might have his books and a few clothes like the other fellows. And all because he, his father, could not make enough to provide everything for him. His shoulders sagged. But he shouldn't worry so much about Bob. Responsibility was good for a boy. It would make a man out of him. Only he wished it did not have to be from necessity. Then there was little' five-year-old Dan who would be wondering why Santa Claus would not bring him the electric train he wanted so much. Poor little Dan! Sally and Bob understand about Santa Claus, but little Dan could not seem to get it through his dear curly head why it is that during hard times Santa Claus cannot bring as fine toys as usual although he loves the boys and girls just as much. A tired sad smile crossed his worried face as he recalled to his mind the picture of his wife sitting with little Dan upon her lap. "You see, Danny," she had said gently, "Times have been very bad. And you know that Santa Claus spends all his days and most of his nights thinking of how he can make people happy, and because of that he has always neglected his business. Therefore, if men who spend all their time making money have felt the depression, don't you think Santa Claus who has spent more thought on little children than on making money—don't you think he, too,  would have a hard time to provide everybody with as fine toys as he has before?" "Yes, I guess so," little Danny had said wistfully, still unable to truly grasp what part money has to play in this big world of ours. "But mummy," he went on earnestly, "I wouldn't mind if it wasn't a very big train. Just a little one would be all right. Or it really needn't be electric, either, if that's too much. One of those you wind up would be fun. Do you suppose he could manage that, mummy? I wouldn't ask for nothin' else." The man's expression of despair  deepened into worn furrows upon his tired face. Until this very morning he, too, had been almost sure that Santa could manage the train, but now.—With heavy heart he plodded onward. It was beginning to snow, the first snow fall, almost an unknown thing in this mild climate. The white flakes were slushy and damp, melting as soon as they touched the pavement. His feet were becoming wet and cold. He had been planning to have his shoes half-soled, though they were hardly worth it. He had almost been beginning to have hopes of a new pair, but now— To his discouraged ears came the tinkle of cheery Christmas bells. He stopped by a window full of toys. His eyes lighted. His pulses quickened. There it was! An electric train, with bright headlights, speeding rapidly around its winding course. It was not a big one, nor elaborate, but how it would gladden the heart of little Dan. He sighed and shrugged. It was impossible now. With despair bending his tall frame with its heavy weight, he turned from the sight. Music, the blended harmony of a Christmas Carol caused him to stop and lift his eyes. He had always loved music pasionately and he turned to watch the singers. There they stood, four of them, in red hoods and cloaks. He caught their words distinctly. "Hark the herald angels sing." How often he had heard that old song. It was almost his favorite among the Carols. "Glory to the newborn King; Peace on earth and mercy mild—'"' These familiar and once-loved words today scorched his heart with bitterness and. Antagonistic rebellion. "Peace on earth!" Bah!, There was no peace on earth. These were tumultuous, troublous times. The whole world was topsy-turvy. The whole world was mad. Never before in all history had there been such a condition, and there seemed to be no solution guaranteed to re-establish its equilibrium. Peace! Bah! Where there were wars bespattering and scarring the face of old mother earth? When poverty was clawing with ravenous fingers at her helpless children while a very select few alone enjoyed the luxuries of life? Peace! Why there was no peace anywhere upon the whole globe, because men could not find peace in their own souls. He was walking doggedly along. He had not stayed to hear a phrase more of the song which had so seared his soul with bitterness. He was approaching his own neighborhood now. There was the meat market where he had promised his wife he would buy something for their dinner tomorrow. The window was filled with lovely turkeys. The sight of them added to his rancour. Turkeys were not for him or his family. But Mr. Morton, the man in whose establishment he had worked, would have one. He would PEACE ON EARTH sit down to a feast made up of all the bounties life had to offer. But not Jim Brock and his family. Jim knew: what it meant to be out of a job in times like these. For the past three years he had had countless situations facing him exactly like this one. And it had resulted in work for a week or two, and then a disheartening search for months only to find something that would last perhaps but a few days. Yes, he knew'well. That is why his nerves felt as if they could no longer endure such a strenuous battle for existence. His harassed eyes were scanning the meat counter for something cheap, very cheap, yet something that his wife's ingenuity could dress up into a passable holiday dinner. He found what he sought for fifty cents. That was all he would allow himself to spend. Then with his parcel under his arm he once more went his way. His feet were almost numb with the damp and cold. He would be glad to get home by his fire. It was only a block now; for he was passing the little church which was so near their small home. In its yard he noticed there had been erected since morning a big sign, decorated appropriately and effectively, with large letters proclaiming the age-old inscription: 'Peace on earth, good will to men." What a mockery for churches to flaunt such a thought before the eyes of men. There was no peace on earth. There was no good will among men. If there had been, he would not have lost his job at Morton's furniture factory, he who was well-educated and capable. Surely, if there was peace on earth, he would not have been thrust from his job just before Christmas in the midst of winter when times are always the hardest. 735 He was on his own porch now. He could hear the merry laughter of his children from within, while at intervals his wife's mellow voice mingled with theirs. She had been a sweet brave woman, he thought, while his heart softened somewhat, then hard-. Ened bitterly again as he reminded himself of the news he had to tell her. That would put an end to their gay laughter, he thought, as he vigorously stamped his feet upon the tiny porch. In response Anna opened the door to him, surrounded by their merry bunch, Sally and Bob at right and left with little Dan peaking through first one opening and then another. They grabbed his arms, showered him with kisses, and ushered him into a room festively decorated with red and green streamers and Santa Claus cut-outs. He sat down limply in the chair they offered him. "Where in the world did you—" he started to say, but was interrupted by a chorus of voices. "We didn't spend a single cent, Daddy," they exclaimed gleefully, while their well-meant words smote his heart because of his inability to provide them a better living. "No," Sally went on. "My art teacher gave me a lot of this colored paper. Of course some of it is kind of old, but it doesn't look'so bad, do you think?" "It looks great," the man breathed. "You are all good children. But I've lost my job," he finished, each word brutally distinct. For a moment there was silence. Then— "I've still got my paper routes. Two of them," interposed Bob, meaning to be encouraging. "I want you to save your money for college, son," the man said tersely. "I have been," the boy returned. 736 'Practically every cent, so I guess I can give some to the best dad in the world if I want to." This endearment was touching from a boy usually so man-like and unemotional in all things. "You are a good lad," said the father deeply moved, "but I don't think it will be that bad.' "T know it won't," said Anna in her calm, sure way. "It has been like this before, but something has always come along to keep us from ever being reduced to dire want. Don't worry, Jim." "Things are getting better, too, daddy," reassured Sally. "From what people are saying, I don't think it will be so hard this time." Little Danny looked into his father's face with a puzzled expression. Money seemed to be of such vital concern to grown-ups. BUT youth cannot long be repressed, especially on Christmas Eve. So they resumed their occupations and gaiety was once more established, except for Jim Brock, in the back-ground of whose mind lurked that old familiar and harassing worry, and for Anna, who even though she forced laughter to her lips felt keenly for her husband. "See, dad,"' said Sally, "I've made a Christmas card for mother." "It is beautiful," murmured the man, as he beheld there, drawn by the hand of his daughter and colored attractively, a picture of the Savior extending his own arms to a weeping man and woman.. What depths of understanding, meekness, comfort, and love she had portrayed on the face of Jesus, and what sorrow upon the countenances of the two who were seeking his blessing. It held the man almost spellbound. To think that his daughter's hand— He read the inscription beneath it: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted." "It is beautiful," he said. Whom is it for?" "Mama asked me to make it to send to Mr. And Mrs. Morton. They lost their little son two or three days ago." "You shan't do it!" the man declared firmly and bitterly. "Why, daddy!" the girl breathed in dismay. "What's all this?' asked the mother coming in from the kitchen. "She shan't send this card to those people," he explained, harshly. "He fired me. They're rich, while we're in want. They—" "Did he fire you personally?" asked the woman quietly. "No, but he's at the head. He owns the concern." "He probably doesn't even know who you are," his wife went on. "And anyway during this Christmas season there is supposed to prevail good will in our hearts for all mankind and—" "'And on earth peace, I suppose," the man snapped ironically. "Yes," she returned, puzzled at his outburst. "Well, there is no peace anywhere. The injustice of our whole scheme of things drives out peace from even our very souls." His bitterness startled her. "Never mind about that, then," his wife said softly. "Do you remember that day, only six years ago, when we—": Her words summoned before his memory the face of their five-yearold Alice, stilled by the hand of death, and an expression of pain crossed his worn face. "T remember," he said gently. "And do you remember," she persisted, "how we learned that trust in the Savior and a knowledge of "But PEACE ON EARTH his plan of salvation was the only way to obtain a philosophy that was big enough to enable us to rise above our grief?" "Yes, I remember," he repeated. "You are right as you always are. You must send the card. But you have no stamps. You told me to get some. I forgot." "We won't spend money for stamps now. Sally and Bob and I will leave it in their mailbox. I've been in all day. I’ll enjoy the walk." THAT evening they trudged through the rapidly falling snow on past their own humble neighborhood into districts more prosperous and still more prosperous until they reached the Morton's big home, big but empty because a little boy was no longer there to play within its walls. Anna wiped a tear from her eye. Well she knew and understood the aching hearts which were housed within. "And you can only be comforted," she mused, "for you can never forget." In the meantime, Jim was left at home to tuck little Dan into his bed. He was left, too, with memories that had softened his bitterness and filled his heart with a keener affection for the little boy who had been left in his charge. He undressed the child and knelt with him while he lisped his little'prayer, but tonight he added to it a plea to Santa Claus. "Please, dear Santa Claus, bring me just a little weeny train, that is, if you possibly can." Tears of futility streamed unbidden down the man's face. He wiped them away. He could not argue with the child tonight and tell him the usual story about Santa Claus feeling bad when little boys and girls keep asking for things he could 737 not bring. No. Tonight he was too full of sorrow, too full of weariness with the struggle of life. So he kissed the little boy and tucked him into bed, then quietly left the room. For hours he paced the floor, haunted by the knowledge that there would be no train in the morning. Until his wife and two other children came home he walked his perturbed way, becoming worn out with exhaustion, so much so that it did not take long for his wife's gentle urgings and soothing words to entice him to bed and lull him off to sleep. 'One could not be too utterly discouraged around her. Way with you. She had a E was surprised that he had slept so soundly, but he was not disturbed until Dan's glee over a few ten-cent and home-made toys awakened the household. The man's mind once more bestirred itself to the realization that little Dan was doomed to disappointment. He threw his worn and faded bathrobe about his shoulders and rushed out to comfort the child. But the little boy was looking between, in, and around everything stowed away beneath the tree which was decorated with tinsel and balls that sadly betrayed their age. Then the child stood back and announced calmly: "My train has not come yet." The mother and father exchanged bewildered looks. Then the man began to explain. "Well, sonny, I'm afraid—" "Oh, daddy, you don't need to be. I know Santa is going to bring me one. I prayed about it last night you know, and.—" He searched for words. "Well, you know how when you pray, sometimes you just get the 738 feeling so strong that you know your prayer will be answered." Tears were wet in the eyes of all, and for a long time no one spoke to break the magic of that moment. And so that Christmas day was hallowed by the gift of the Divine Spirit which only the faith of a little child can impart. The simple homemade gifts which were exchanged were glorified by a greater family love and appreciation for each other, and perhaps the little sister who was missing from their presence enriched the morning with a tie that was spiritual. It was a grateful and joyous family which unitedly partook of their simple Christmas dinner prepared by the capable hands of their mother, but late in the afternoon their gaiety was hushed by the shrill ringing of the door bell. The father said, "I'll go," and they were all surprised to hear him say a few minutes later, "Why come in, Mr. And Mrs. Morton." The children clustered wide-eyed in the background while their mother with gentle courtesy and simple hospitality offered them chairs and took their wraps. "We just wanted to drop in, Mr. And Mrs. Brock," said Mr. Morton, "to thank you for the lovely card we received from you this morning." "You don't know what it has meant to me," Mrs. Morton said gently, while tears threatened to fill her eyes. "I can't say more." "You don't need to," answered the mother. "I know exactly how you feel. I've been through it, too." Mr. Morton went on. "You don't know what it has done to our very house, that exquisite little painting and those holy words. It has brought a warmth that we haven't known since—since—" Words failed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE him. Then he gained control of himself and said, "Who painted it?" "Our daughter here," the father answered proudly, bringing forward the girl who blushed timidly. "She has talent. I would like to do something for her. Have you ever thought of going to art school?" "Oh, yes,” she spoke up eagerly. "But I doubt if I will be able to. Times have been so poor for us and daddy has lost his job." "Yes, yes. I know about that, too. When your card came I couldn't place you, so I had my secretary look you up. You will come to work in the morning. I need a man like you, for a man with such children as these, with such happiness in their faces when you have so little, is the man I want for a special job I have in mind, which will give more pay and a chance for advancement." He went on hurriedly, ignoring the man's attempted thanks. "And young lady, I am going to send you to art school. Oh, your father will soon be making enough to do that for you himself, but I want the honor." The girl was speechless with joy. "I can't thank you enough." "Don't try, for we can't thank you either," he said and abruptly turned to Bob. "Young man—" The boy blushed with adolecsent embarrassment. "Young man,” repeated Mr. Morton, "I need an energetic boy like you in my office afternoons after school. It will pay more than even two paper routes and you won't have to get up so early in the morning," he finished with an understanding twinkle in his eye. "Gee, that's swell,'' Bob breathed. "And you, my son," he said turning to little Dan. ''For you there is an electric train. We have no little boy to play with it now, and we thought you might like it." PEACE ON EARTH "Would I? Didn't I tell you? Didn't I tell you?" cried the child running in excited circles while Mr. Morton went out to his car and brought in and set up the most elaborate train outfit that little Dan had ever seen. And the bereft rich man and woman stayed for several hours enjoying the excitement and pleasure, of the little boy who had known his train would come. Finally when they arose to go, the short day had already darkened, but the thin blanket of snow did its best to brighten the oncoming night. After hearty goodbyes had been said, Anna and Jim stood in the door-way watching their kind new friends get into the luxurious car which stood waiting at the curb. Jim placed his arm around Anna's waist affectionately and she smiled up at him. "You see, dear," she said, "God is ever mindful of us as he is of all His children. All he asks of us is courage to face life and its problems the best we can, and faith in his wisdom and justice." "Yes," responded the man. "We must have faith as strong and implicit as that of our little Dan, and courage like his which remained undaunted even though his train was not in the expected place at the expected time, for his faith gave him the assurance that his reward would come, and he was patient. Bless our children," he finished almost under his breath. Just then as the whir of the Morton's car died away in the distance and as the couple paused before shutting the door, they could hear the lusty and melodious singing in the little near-by church, and the final words came distinctly to their ears: "Glory to God in the highest. Peace on earth, good-will to men."