Baty re, President Rufus K. Hardy By President Levi Edgar Young APPROACH the writing of this I sketch of Rufus K. Hardy with a great deal of joy. He and I were boys together. We played the same gates in our childhood days; we attended the same district school and had the same teachers; we joined the other boys in their hikes through City Creek canyon and on to the surrounding hills; we steered the same large sled down the hill in winter time; and snow-balled the same passers-by. Yet there was a kind of honor to us boys asa group. It is safe to say that we never picked on smaller boys, and we never ran from the larger ones. Our teacher in the old Twelfth Ward school (the building still stands on east First South Street) was John B. Moreton. The "higher" room where he taught, was in the basement of the building. It was the day when we were graded according to readers, and famous was the boy or girl who had reached the Fifth Reader and could do complex fractions. Mr. Moreton understood us, and though a fine disciplinarian, he was never harsh, and happy was he, when a boy or girl would work hard at the assigned lessons, and manifest a love for books. His classes were always interesting. Blessed with a vivid imagination, he would take us on long trips to distant countries and tell us about the heroes of history. We learned to live the subjects he taught, and the boys and girls would remain voluntarily after school to listen to some story or hear him read the poems of Tennyson and Longfellow. There was a certain fineness of character to the boys and girls of the Twelfth Ward school. Many of them with whom Rufus and I played have won for themselves high honors in the world. We played "townball" with Bry Wells, who is now a Major General in the United States Army. Will Riter, who used to recite Patrick Henry's speech before the Virginia House of Burgesses with dramatic effect, became the assistant Attorney General of the United States, and was living in Washington, when death took him. George Riter used to make us laugh at his stories. He held the position of City engineer for Salt Lake City for many years, and many of the paved streets of Salt Lake were due to his careful planning. Edith Ellerbeck was on her way to fame as a writer of fiction, when her life was cut short. Mahonri Young still lives, and is one of the world's great sculptors. Ida Savage was a fine art critic. She died some years ago. Mr. Moreton had a way of stimulating ideals within the souls of his boys and girls, and he created a "moral thoughtfulness" that remanied with us all through life. As I look back now through the years, I see him standing before the old brown desk, listening to our recitations and quietly correcting our mistakes. He made us feel sincerely that there is such a thing as "moral health as beautiful and as desirable as health of the body; and that the signs of it are truthfulness, sincerity, kindness, helpfulness, self-respect, self-control, courage, and fulfilment of duty." He was a great teacher, and fortunate was the boy or girl who came under his influence. PRESIDENT RUFUS K. HARDY PRESIDENT RUFUS K. HARDY I was in such an atmosphere that Rufus Hardy received his early school training. But greater than his schooling was the influence of his old home. President Hardy comes of fine pioneer parentage. His father was the son of Josiah G. Hardy, who drove an ox team across the plains in early days, and suffered hardships almost beyond description. Rufus Hardy, the father, had an artistic turn of mind, and for many years, he played in the old Mark Croxall band and George Careless orchestra. Annie Kay Hardy was an ideal mother. In her home, she trained her sons, John, Rufus, and Carl in the paths of rectitude, and imparted to them truths and inspired them with ideals not found in books. She was an outstanding and sympathetic character; and had an understanding heart. She was a graduate of the old University of Deseret and had studied history and philosophy under Dr. John R. Park. Always serene and patient, Annie Kay inherited from her English parents stability of purpose and constancy to high principles. From her lips, her boys learned the precepts of the Bible. She gloried in the traditions of early American history, and loved the poems of Whittier and Longfellow. She struggled to educate her children; at times her work was hard, for she taught school, and often left home in the early morning and returned at the end of the day tired and discouraged. Yet no one ever saw her face clouded with a frown. The mother was Rufus's greatest teacher, and from her he inherited a love for books; from the father, an appreciation for music. President Hardy, when but a young man, became prominent in the real estate business in Salt Lake City; and then for a period of twentyfive years, he was supervisor of the 745 Western States Life Insurance Company. His reputation for honest dealing was known to his host of friends; and he always found time to look after the interests of orphans and widows, who came under his influence. His kind heart has always been expressed in charitable acts, which have relieved much suffering and want. In business, he has a fine sense of accuracy, combined with a sound and calm judgment. He has often surmounted difficulties by his unwearied diligence to prosecute labor, which his physical condition at times must otherwise have arrested. President Hardy was just nineteen years of age, when he was first called to perform a mission in New Zealand among the Maoris. He was absent from home in this field of labor over three and a half years, and during his absence, he not only learned to speak the language fluently, he became greatly interested in the straditions and history of the Maori people. He sees in the lore of that people, substantial facts that connect them with the Jewish race. While it may be true that there lived in New Zealand in prehistoric times, a race of people whose lineage is not known, yet it appears to be certain that Semitic civilization has stamped itself upon the native inhabitants. These people, according to President Hardy's conclusions, have always moved in a religious atmosphere, and have ascribed a religious origin to their power-and a sacred character to their kings. They endowed the family with rigid cohesion and the maintenance of family life was a sacred duty. Many important legends are preserved among the people, which have helped to maintain their ancient government, and to regulate the conduct of men-—the Creation, the Victory of  Light over Darkness; the Fall of Man, and the Deluge. Christianity appeals to them, and whenever they have accepted the Gospel, they have maintained its dignity in their hearts by living it. To the Maoris, President Hardy has gone three times to carry the Gospel message, and at the time of his call to the First Council of Seventy at the last General Conference of the Church, he was presiding over the New Zealand mission. He has just recently been released, and is now on his way home. Elder Hardy has a great love for the out-of-doors. Ever since he was a small boy, he has roamed the hills. He knows the trees and flowers. To this day, he loves hunting and fishing, and hardly a stream in Utah is unknown to him, for trout fishing has been one of the joys of his life. When I think of him going into the remote canyons every year, I recall Walter Savage Landor's fine lines: "We are what suns and winds and waters make us; The mountains are our sponsors, and the rills Fashion and win their nursling with their smiles." President Hardy is well equipped for his divine call to the position as one of the First Council of Seventy. His experience has been broad and active. His early training has given him a love for books, and he has a comprehensive knowledge of history and literature. His charming companionship, his knowledge of the Gospel, and his generous consideration of others; all give him a fine setting for his future work among the people. He will be greatly loved.