Lesson Department
(First Week in February)
Theology and Testimony
LESSON V
THE AGENCY OF MAN
1. A Basic Gift from God. It appears that from the outset man was endowed with the right to choose and to act for himself. The scriptures declare that before man came to earth he was present at a council in heaven and sanctioned the plan of salvation as proposed by the Only Begotten of the Father. Lucifer, who was also present, sought to abrogate unto himself the power of God, and also to destroy the agency of man. (Moses 4:3.) For this cause he was cast down from heaven and "became Satan, yea, even the devil, the father of all lies, to deceive and to blind men, and to lead them captive at his will, even as many as would not hearken'' unto the voice of God. In his rebellion Satan was followed by a "third part of the hosts of heaven." (D. & C. 29:36.)
2. Surely such a sacrifice would not have been permitted except that a basic principle was at stake. Before his rebellion, Satan "was an authority in the presence of God," and was called ''even a son of the morning." Later because of his revolt against God, he was called "Perdition, for the heavens wept over him ?he was Lucifer, a son of the morning." (D. & C. 76:26.) God had given unto man his agency (Moses 4:3; D. & C. 29:35.) This Satan sought to destroy, and, as a result, he and a third part of the hosts of heaven were cast down and became emissaries of evil. Surely, let it be repeated, such a sacrifice would not have been permitted, except that a basic principle was at stake. Souls are far too precious in the sight of God to permit such a loss, unless fundamental necessity demanded that it be done. It must needs be, then, than man's agency lies at the very foundation of human attainment and happiness. Indeed without it, man would be a tool of the evil one, forever at his mercy, without progress and without pleasure. Only when we contrast this condition with that which the agency of man offers is the gravity of Satan's demand at the council of heaven fully apparent.
3. Taught in All Ages. When the Lord placed Adam and Eve in the garden of Eden, he spoke unto the man saying, "Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shall not eat of it, neverthless, thou mayest choose for thyself, for it is given unto thee; but remember that I forbid it." (Moses 3:15, 17.)
4. The Lord instructed Enoch, "Go forth and do as I have commanded thee,... Open thy mouth, and it shall be filled, and I will give thee utterance, for all flesh is in my hands, and I will do as seemeth me good, Say unto this people: Choose ye this day, to serve the Lord God who made you." (Moses 6:32, 33.) In further explanation to Enoch of man's agency to choose for himself, the Lord said, ''Behold these thy brethren; they are the workmanship of mine own hands, and I gave unto them their knowledge, in the day I created them; and in the Garden of Eden, gave I unto man his agency." (Moses 7:32.)
5. Standing before the tribes of Israel, Joshua of old, said, "Choose you this day whom ye will serve; whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose lands ye dwell: but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord.' (Joshua 24:15.) Thus Joshua plainly understood that human beings have the right, also the power, to choose their own courses in life, whether good or evil.
6. The Lord was equally as explicit to his people the Nephites, as witness the following: 'Men are free according to the flesh; and all things are given them which are expedient unto man. And they are free to choose liberty and eternal life, through the great mediation of all men, or to choose captivity and death, according to the captivity and power of the devil.' (II Nephi 2: 27.) Again, "He hath given unto you that ye might know good from evil, and he hath given you that ye might choose life or death; and ye can do good and be restored unto that which is good, or have that which is good restored unto you; or ye can do evil, and have that which is evil restored unto you." (Helaman 14:31.)
7. Thus in all dispensations of time, the Lord has made it clear to his children that they have the right to select their own courses in life,? to obey or disobey the commandments of God, as they may elect. They are free from compulsion and restraint; they are at liberty to think and to act for themselves; they are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the moulders and makers of their own fate, they are the architects and builders of whatever they are and of whatever they may become. Agency is one of God's choicest gifts to man.
8. Agency Essential to Progress. In the first place, it is apparent that if man were unable to choose for himself, rewards would be impossible, for rewards are given or obtained only in acknowledgment of merit; and, of course, merit could not exist in the absence of determined effort to do good. Moreover, if, as Satan proposed, man were compelled in all his acts, neither gifts nor punishment would avail. In other words, strip man of his agency and he would become a mere automaton, a mere machine, whose actions would be purposeless and uncontrolled by his own will. He would be far more unfortunate than a child in the hands of a fiend. He would be conscious of wrong-doing, but unable to control it.
9. Moreover, even if man were forced to do good, the undesirable aspects would be only partially removed. Man becomes strong only by willfully overcoming obstructions, and not by having some one else overcome them for him. Unmerited gifts tend to produce weakness, not strength. Students have long since learned that if they wish to acquire strength, they must go forward largely as a result of their own efforts. The student, who either at home or at school, must be urged or continuously assisted in the preparation of his work seldom if ever makes much headway.
10. The reason for this is apparent. As pointed out in another lesson, Deity has made the astounding provision that man's aptitudes are increased by use. If, for example, man wishes to learn to sing, he must LESSON DEPARTMENT sing; if he desires to become a pianist, he must play the piano. Indeed, so far as known, there is no way in which man can go forward except through his own personal efforts. This places all humanity on the same basis. In this there is no advantage to the rich or the poor. All must pay the same price, namely, personal effort. Moreover, he who is not willing to pay the price cannot, worlds without end, receive the reward.
11. A word further: One of God's choicest gifts to man is the ability to improve by intelligent use. (Inanimate things retrograde through use.) Well directed effort is never expended without compensating reward. Individual effort is the ladder by which man climbs to successively greater heights; and so far as known there is no other way. The eventual possible goal is perfection. Deity, however, is most jealous of this endowment, for whenever man ceases to use it, his progress not only stops but quickly declines. No professional singer, for example, would regard himself as in good voice if he had not practiced for say a month; nor would a football coach regard his men as fully ready for a game if they had rested even as little as ten days. The rewards for intelligent effort are immediately forthcoming. Likewise, declination invariably follows inactivity, even though only slightly prolonged.
12. Satan's plan to force men back into the presence of God would thus be impossible, for humanity cannot acquire or achieve through eternal force. If we go forward, it must be by our own predetermined and willful acts. God will not force the human mind.
13. Moreover, unmerited rewards are never fully appreciated. We must grow into the things of our choice. The backwoodsman would not feel at home in the palace of the king, nor the sinner in the home of the saint. We appreciate things most for which we strive most. Intelligent effort begets appreciation. Only those who throughout their entire lives have struggled to obtain salvation will be prepared to enjoy it. The wrongdoer would be ill at ease in the presence of God. Thus, again, Satan's plan to force men back into the presence of the Father is seen to be impossible. Such a goal can only be attained through individual effort.
14. Personal Considerations. The agency of man lies as the very basis of his salvation; if this were not so it would not have formed the crucial point around which the revolt centered in heaven. Of necessity, then, it is of transcendent importance. Surely, every individual should attempt not only to understand the importance but also to utilize it to the full, otherwise its virtue will be lost to us. In a word, man's agency is his God-given right or capacity to choose right or wrong, as he may elect. If he chooses the one and continues therein, he will return to the presence of the Father; if he choose the other he will follow the path of sorrow and pain.
15. The Gifts of God should be utilized, not merely studied and theoretically understood. It is not enough merely to become members of the Church; this is scarcely more than a preliminary step that paves the way for further and continued advancement. Admission to the Church is not unlike admission to an institution of great learning; both are initiatory steps to further progress. Unwise is the individual who permits his advancement to stop here
16. The roadway to heaven is a reality that must be traversed before the goal is attained. Moreover, it can be traveled only as the result of purposeful effort. For this reason God has provided man with his agency. Every Latter-day Saint should see to it that he is a traveler, not a continuous camper. His tent should be pitched at a new place each night. No sun should go down without finding him closer to his goal. God has provided the means.
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. Why in your judgment was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Lucifer's plan wholly inacceptible?
2. Name at least a dozen privileges that you now enjoy which could not exist under Lucifer's plan.
3. In what respect is the will of man his outstanding characteristic? 4, Give several illustrations of the manner in which personal effort increases one's ability?
4. Why does the sinner not feel at ease in the presence of the righteous?
5. Enumerate ways in which you should increase the use of your agency.
Teachers' Topic
NEW YEAR'S DAY
AMONG all peoples in all ages, the first day of the year has been regarded as a holiday. Our present calendar is the result of the work of wise men of many lands. There are two natural divisions of time, the day and the year. The months seems to have been suggested by the period of the moon's revolutions, and the week is approximately one quarter of a lunation. The Orientals, Egyptians, Greeks, Jews, Romans, all had a different method of reckoning time. At the time of Julius Caesar, the Roman calendar had become greatly confused. Caesar resolved upon a thorough reform, and under the direction of the great astronomer, Sosigenes, he abolished the lunar year and readjusted the months to their proper places. We are indebted to Julius Caesar for our calendar as we have it today, except that a few slight errors were corrected by the scholarly Pope Gregory XIII, in 1582, since which time there has been a uniform chronology common to all civilized lands. The first of January bears the significant title of Gausan, which means the three beginnings, the year, the month, and the day, and to this might be added the beginning of a new and better life, expressed in our good resolutions. The Greeks celebrated the New Year with appropriate offerings and festivities. The Ancient Druids commenced their year on the 10th of March, and it was the most important of all their festivals. According to the best Bible authorities the Feast of Trumpets was the feast of the New Year among the Children of Israel, and full instructions as to its observance are to be found in the 29th chapter of Numbers. To this day devout Jews in all lands observe this New Year's anniversary, or Feast of Trumpets. The Hindus celebrate the New Year with a great festival in honor of the God of Wisdom, and there is much rejoicing LESSON DEPARTMENT throughout all India. In China, New Year's Day is the most striking, elaborate and joyous of all the civil and religious observances. The Japanese begin to prepare for the New Year's celebration nearly a month before, and they give their houses and possessions a thorough cleaning, just as the good American housewife does in the Spring. New Year's Day in the Turkish Orient, is the gayest holiday of the year. In France, January 1st is a far more festive day than is Christmas, and it is then that presents are given and family gatherings held. The New Year is a time of great importance in Germany. Cards are more numerous than at Christmas, and New Year's boxes are given to the tradespeople. The New Year in England has never been the popular festival that it is in other European countries, but in Scotland, January 1st, is a national holiday, and chief of all festivals. In New England, New Year's celebration, as that of Christmas, met with little favor among the Puritans, but in the other parts of the United States, the European manner of celebrating prevailed. The custom of New Year's calling to offer good wishes, was one of the traces left by the early Dutch settlers, and New Year's Day was devoted to the universal interchange of visits. The observance of New Year's Day mainly rests on the principle that a good beginning makes a good ending, that as the first day is, so will the others be. It is the period of good resolutions, when men seem to renew courage and face the future bravely. Tennyson's prayer, expressed in "The Bells," gives what should be in every human heart at this time.
"Ring out the old, ring in the new? Ring out the false, ring in the true. Ring out the griefs that sap the mind, Ring in redress to all mankind. Ring out false pride in place and blood, Ring in the common love of good. Ring out the thousand wars of old, Ring in the thousand years of peace. Ring in the valiant men and free The larger heart, the kindlier hand, Ring out the darkness of the land? Ring in the Christ that is to be."
Literature
(For Third Week in February)
LIFE AND LITERATURE
Poetry. New THEMES AND NEW VOICES
"We are the music-makers, We are the dreamers of dreams. Yet we are the movers and shakers, Of the world for ever it seems." ?O'Shaughnessy.
TODAY is a new age. Life has new values; wealth, luxury, and power are creating new horizons for Man. A new humanism, a democratic humanism has evolved in the titanic struggles of This new age. Literature has a great task to perform, to record faithfully Man's thoughts and emotions during this epoch of change. Today's singers must accept all of life. They must know the spirit of democracy in the world. They must find knighthood among the brave masses of mankind, and see the Madonna-love in the heart of womankind. The new poets must sing these new themes bravely and melodiously so that mankind may still seek beauty and inspiration in poetry.
The Spirit of Contemporary Poetry
"To see life steadily and see it whole," must always be the poet's goal. The poet more than the historian records the life of his time, because he becomes the interpreter and the recorder of the thoughts and emotions of his fellow men. The history of poetry reveals the fact that the great poetic expression of an age is the result of an accompanying intensification of life. The Greek poets sang of their heroes and gods because they worshiped them ?their poetry was made for that purpose. Similarly, the great names in poetry: Dante, Chaucer, Shakespeare, Milton, Moliere, Goethe, mark the supreme expression of periods of national intensity or epochs of universal thought. The spirit of democracy has grown slowly through the ages until today the poet takes all of life for his province. Having accepted this responsibility, the new poet must write with fearless sincerity of its beauty as well as its
ugliness, of its triumphs as well as its defeats. Contemporary poetry is following the traditional and conventional poetic themes and patterns with religion, love, and nature as the dominant notes. It is also following bravely a new note, singing the songs of Democracy. Many poets have dedicated themselves to the cause of the common man following the concern RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of William Vaughn Moody in ?Gloucester Moors": "Who has given me this sweet. And given my brother dust to eat? And when will his wage come in?" and the challenge of Edwin Markham in "The Man with a Hoe": "O masters, lords and rulers in all lands, Is this the handiwork you give to God, ' This monstrous thing, distorted and soul-quenched? How will you ever straighten up this shape; Touch it again with immortality:" "? masters, lords and rulers in all lands, How will the future reckon with this man?" and accept John Masefield's leadership in "Consecration": "Not of the princes and prelates with periwigged charioteers Riding triumphantly laurelled to lap the fat of the years,? Rather the scorned?the rejected ?the men hemmed in with the spears: the ruler for me, but the ranker, the tramp of the road, The slave with the sack on his shoulders pricked on with the goad, The man with too weighty a burden, too weary a load. "Of the maimed, of the halt and the blind in the rain and cold? Of these shall my songs be fashioned, my tales be told." Contemporary literature has many other singers of everyday life and its problems: Rudyard Kipling of the British soldier and sailor; Wilfred W. Gibson of London slum LESSON DEPARTMENT "Not life; Padriac Colum of Irish peasant life; Edwin Markham, Carl Sandburg, Louis Untermeyer, Vachel Lindsay are singing of cities, factories, subways, skyscrapers, coal mines, workers, immigrants; Margaret Widdemar and Florence Wilkinson plead the cause of children in industry "who never have seen a rosebush nor a. Dewdrop in the sun." Continental Europe, too, has its singers singing of the new horizons of its changing social order. The World War brought to contemporary poetry a wealth of expression chiefly of the universal mysteries of Life and Death. The poets of the new age are still "the music makers, the dreamers of dreams, the movers and shakers of the world" "Make us thirst for Beauty, that we cease These struggles, and this strident age Grows sweet with peace." Conscious always of the individual and his ultimate destiny, many poets are singing to keep before man a vision of the ideal: "Of my own spirit let me be In sole, though feeble mastery." "Master??Sara Teasdale. "I am the master of my fate I am the captain of my soul." "Invictus" William Henly. The greatest gift of the poets to man now as through the ages is the word which is to keep alive within him the spark of celestial light. The recent poem a "Psalm," patterned after the Psalm of the Bible is significant for its message and its beauty. Edwin Markham, Dean of American Poetry N his recent book of poems, "Eighty Songs at Eighty," Edwin Markham has expressed the theme 771 which unifies the message of his poems, "The Upward March of Man'"? "The rise of man is endless:? God-quickened, he will break these mortal bars, Laugh, and reach out his hands among the stars." For eighty years Edwin Markham has grown "softly as the grasses grow" of a long line of distinguished ancestors, noncomformists, men of affairs in state and church, rebels, poets reaching back into English history his own romance began on a covered-wagon train as his parents followed the pioneer trail to Oregon. Upon the death of his father, he moved with his mother to California. His years from seven to eighteen were long hard years of toil on a pioneer farm. Then came school days at San Jose Normal School, followed by teach| ing at San Luis Obispo and Oakland. When the world gave its recognition to the poem "The Man with a Hoe" the poet moved to New York. Writing and lecturing have made up the poet's life unto past eighty. "The smack and tang of elemental things" marked the first reach of the poets' trail ? from range to range, from pass to river-bed, from cliff to blowing spray with oak brush, wild poppies and the curlew's call intermingled. The "great of old" directed Edwin Markham to social consciousness. Books to him are as sacred as the most beautiful things of nature. The Gospel of Jesus, the confessions of Saint Francis of Assisi, the dramas of Shakespeare, the novels of Victor Hugo, the social philosophy of Fourier, Mazzina, Carlyle, Ruskin, Horace Greeley were in the main the poet's social teachers. The vista of books opened in the little cabin home 772 at his mother's knee grew with the years. "The Man with a Hoe" and 'The Toiler" carry the poet's social gospel to the world. The individualistic philosophy of the poet has grown as the years have enriched his understanding of man; stirred always by the heroic virtues of man ?unselfish devotions, high ambitions and lofty acheivements. To Edwin Markham "Poetry is the daughter of God and she rises to her highest moments when she comes keeping step with the music of humanity." "Lincoln, the Man of the People" is the expression of the poet's philosophy of individualism. Intensely conscious of the continuity of life Edwin Markham's works are marked by a deep religious consciousness. Ina long narrative poem "The Ballad of the Gallows Bird" the poet accepts man's responsibility. "Choice Is the Hinge of Fate" is written on the gate of individual liberty. The poems "Shoes of Happiness" carry the beauty and calm of the poet's religious feeling. In "Our Israfel," the poem selected from two hundred others to pay tribute to Edgar Allen Poe, Edwin Markham has recorded the most lyrical lines of his creative life; also they are the lines that most truly analyze his own poetic spirit. "The Man with a Hoe" In his early manhood, Edwin Markham saw a print of Millet's painting "The Man with a Hoe." The poet, haunted by the vision of the ruin of God's creation represented in the picture, wrote the first four lines of the poem: "Bowed with the weight of the centuries he leans Upon his hoe and gazes on the ground, The emptiness of ages in his face And on his back the burdens of the world." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE For thirteen years the impression remained. Then the poet saw the original painting. Inspired anew within a few days the poem was finished. To the title of the poem was added "God created man in his own image, in the image of God 'created he him." Genesis 1:27. The first stanza describes the hoe-man stunned. Burdened, visionless, the ruin of society. The second stanza delivers the challenge to the social order that has occasioned the ruin of the being God created "to feel the passion of eternity." The third stanza places the responsibility for plundered, betrayed, disinherited humanity. To the world is given the challenge to give back to man "the upward looking and the light" ? make the wrong right. To the plea is added the prophesy as to how the "Future will reckon with the Man" when he rises in judgment: of the world. The poet read his work to a few friends in December, 1899. They published it. It seemed to leap to popularity; it was hailed as the battle-cry of the new century. Translated into forty languages it has carried the cry which moved Millet, the French artist, to expression, the cry of his nation from a blood spattered guillotine to help to awaken in all the word the spirit of democracy. "Lincoln the Man of the People" It is generally conceded by poets and critics alike that Markham's poem on Abraham Lincoln is a great poem. It is great not alone as a tribute to a great leader but as a penetrating analysis of individual greatness. The poet was asked to write a poem for the occasion of the Lincoln Birthday Anniversary, 1900. As the creator meditated upon his task he conceived of Lincoln as a man sent into the world for a great service, LESSON DEPARTMENT "I saw that the Creative Mother of the universe, must descend into the earth to mold this man?not to mold him out of the scarce porcelain from which she makes aristocrats and kings, but out of the clay from which she makes the common people. I saw also that this man must have in him the color of the ground, the smack and tang of things, the rectitude of the cliff, the goodwill of the rain, the welcome of the wayside well, the courage of the bird, the gladness of the wind, the pity of the snow, the secrecy of subterranean streams, the tolerance of light." Then the poet wrote the poem. Dr. Stridger says Edwin Markham is seen at his best as he reads aloud this poem, and when he reached the lines "He went down As when a lordly cedar, green with boughs, Goes down with a great shout upon the hills, And leaves a lonesome place against the sky." the listener hears, is hushed to reverence with the majestic beauty of the words. John Masefield, Poet Laureate of England JOHN MASEFIELD of all modern poets is accepted as the laureate of the people. His life is no longer a wonder-tale of journalism, it has been told so often. It is the story of an English youth who sought adventure at sea. To New York he came penniless and found employment in a carpet factory. One day in Yonkers in 1896 he read Chaucer for the first time. It was a new world of wonder and delight to him. Home he went and began to learn the poet's craft. "Salt-Water Ballads," memories of his life at sea were written and published in 773 1902. ?The Everlasting Mercy," long narrative poem relating the conversion of a poacher was greeted with a loud chorus of acclaim when published in 1911. Then came the World War and his poem "August, 1914" was the greatest poem of the year, expressing the reactions of his own people to the conflict. "Yet heard the news and went discouraged home, And brooded by the fire with heavy mind, Then sadly rose and left the wellloved Downs, And so, by ships to sea, and knew no more The fields of home, the byres, the market towns, Nor the dear outline of the English shore, ae a And died (uncouthly most) in foreign lands For some idea but dimly understood." Like all great poets John Masefield writes of nature and of men. Early in his career the poet dedicated his efforts and his poems to the common man -? the wanderer and the outcast from whom most of us run away. He believes sincerely in the heroism and courage that is evident in the lives of those submerged by the tyranny of power and the vagaries of fate. He glorifies the valor that evidences character not victory ?"What I aspired to be and was not comforts me." 'The Everlasting Mercy," "The Widow in the Bye Street" and "Dauber" bear this theme. The poet does more than tell stories in these poems, he sets the problem to work in the mind of the reader until he too catches the spirit of the new democracy. The sea has been a titanic force in John Masefield's life. Some critics 774 consider "Consecration" and "Sea Fever" from "Salt Water Ballads" his best expression. It is accepted that "Dauber," the sailor painter, is his best work in characterization. The poem "Dauber" is the story of an artist who shipped to sea as a common sailor so that he might learn to paint the moods of the sea, because as Masefield has Dauber say, "It's not been done, the sea, not yet been done." The sailors are uncouth and unsympathetic, and destroy the drawings of Dauber. In the storm the sailors find the painter no weakling. Finally, after months of toil a storm takes him as he falls from aloft to the deck. "It will go on" is his last cry. Dauber's triumph is manhood. A delightful poem and poetic attainment is "Reynard the Fox," a narrative poem telling the story of a fox hunt. The interest is not in the story, however, but in the characterizations of the various people who attend the hunt, portraits which for humor and insight match those of the "Canterbury Tales." Masefield's sonnet "On Growing Old" is considered by some critics as the greatest sonnet in contemporary poetry: "Be with me Beauty, for the fire is dying. My dog and I are old, too old for roving." is the plea of the poet, for now he can sail the seas or wander the hillsides no longer, he can "Only stay quiet while my mind remembers The beauty of the fire from the beauty of embers." The vitality of the poetry of John Masefield parallels the vigor of his enthusiasm for life. He with Rudyard Kipling and Alfred Noyes have done much to bring the contemporary verse of the nation back to the great tradition of English poetry RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE after a period of marked passivity. The realism of Masefield's expression is startling in its intensity as it is often shocking in its ugliness. But one is instantly reminded that color is never to be analyzed as separated from a composition of Art, the same applies to poetic diction? the language of a Victorian drawing room cannot be used as the expression of the submerged outcasts in a cheap loding house in a great city. It seems unnecessary to speak further of the grave strong impressions created thus by the poet in all his works which in turn are felt keenly and deeply by the reader. "Only a great poet can carry yesterday upon his shoulders while he climbs uphill today and points the way to tomorrow." "Only a poet of ample mind and heart can discover in unaccustomed places that poetry which is inherent in all things and then fresh from the discovery make it known effectively." If such be the case then the poets who have given the laurel of greatness to their brother poet, John Masefield, are not mistaken. "The Everlasting Mercy" The poem is the story of the conversion of Saul Kane. The conversion of the poacher began when he was about to commence a prize fight to defend a lie. As he begins the fight the impulse to confess is crowded out by the fear of apparent cowardice. After it is over the pensive mood comes to Saul, he meditates upon the mad disgusting game he has made of life. As he recoils from the man he has been, Saul Kane rushes out into the quiet country town "as mad as twenty blooded colts." In the public house that night, maddened by his agony of soul Saul Kane was drinking himLESSON DEPARTMENT self away to temporary oblivion. A woman came, a salvager of human souls, and spoke to Saul. Saul insulted the woman as none had done before. To Saul's abuse the woman answered the drunkard in kindly pleading for his reform. Saul Kane began life anew, he becomes a ploughman. He accepts idleness as a sin, not merely a crime. In the humble work of life Saul Kane found peace. There is, declares the poet at the conclusion of the poem, "One who waits upon every soul, being patient over it until He sees the harvest home." "And in men's hearts in many lands A spiritual ploughman stands Forever waiting." The poem is a combination of barbaric naturalism, powerful episode, and religious fervor. To us it is not merely the tragic story of an outcast, but an exemplification of the poet's consecration to the unfortunate lives society, as yet, has not learned to understand. Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The story of the World's Literature, 775 Macy, Chapters 37, 49. 2. Modern British and American Poetry, Untermeyer. 3. Selections, Poems, Markham. 4. Selections, Poems, Masefield. B. Program: 1. Reading: a. Psalm, Jessie Sampter. B. Mastery, Sara Teasdale. C. The Watcher, Margaret Widdemar. D. Invictus (to music) William Henley. E. "On Growing Old," John Masefield. 2. Discussion: a. Edwin Markham. B. John Masefield. 3. Review: (Brief) a. "The Man with a Hoe," Markham. B. "The Everlasting Mercy," Masefield. C. Objective: The purpose of this lesson is to present simply the nature and spirit of contemporary poetry. A delightful program can be made of this lesson. Social Service (For Fourth Week in February) Octavia Hitt AND THE Houstnc PropLem (Continued) 4. Methods and Principles. (a) Whatever is done for the poor, Octavia Hill thought, should be done in an orderly way. '"What a frightful confusion of chances," she exclaims, speaking of her poor, "we have as to whether there is to be food or not! A man accepts underpaid work; a little is scraped up by one child, a little begged by another; a gigantic machinery of complicated charities relieves a man of half his responsibilities, not once and for all clearly and definitely, but he gets help here or there. There is no certainty, no quiet, no order in his way of subsisting. And he has an innate sense that his most natural wants ought to be supplied if he works." She would have things done otherwise. There should be no haphazard giving by people of means, from whatever motive?to be "seen 776 of men" or to ease the conscience. Whatever is given should be through some organized institution. For often miscellaneous giving proved more harmful than good to the recipient. But organizations must be small rather than large. Large organizations had too much red tape, too much machinery, to do the best, the most efficient work among the poor. Also she preferred private help for this class of people to state aid. (b) This help, however, should be given, she believed, only after careful study of each case, and even then through the personal touch. 'Alleviation of distress," she says, "may be systematically arranged by a society; but I am satisfied that, without strong personal influence, no radical cure of those who have fallen low can be effected. Gifts may be pretty fairly distributed by a Committee, though they lose half their graciousness; but, if we are to place our people in permanently self-supporting positions, it will depend on the various courses of action suitable to various people and circumstances, the ground of which can be perceived only by sweet subtle human sympathy, and the power of human love. "By knowledge of character more. Is meant than whether a man is a drunkard or a woman is dishonest; it means knowledge of the passions, hopes, and history of people; where the temptation will touch them, what is the little scheme they have made of their own lives, or would make, if they had encouragement; what training long past phases of their lives may have afforded; how to move, touch, teach them. Our memories and hopes are more truly factors of our lives than we often remember." These principles are fundamental in social case work today. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Miss Hill was one of the founders of the Charity Organization Society ?in spite of her dislike for large organizations. The explanation lies in the fact that she believed the proper work of this society was to investigate each individual case, to gather whatever facts are necessary in order to know what to do in a given situation. (c) It was employment, not gifts or charity, that was her goal in all her work for the poor; the building up of their self-respect, of financial independence to the extent