Alberta Carries Health to its Children By Frank Steele HE province of Alberta, Canada, is waging war on defective teeth, tonsils, adenoids, ruptures, eye troubles and other defects undermining the health of its children. For six years now the department of health has sponsored a system of travelling health clinics, a movement for child health that actually carries the services of skilled doctors and nurses to the doors of the people giving the children needed attention at a fraction of the ordinary cost. Dental service is also given and early in the past year an aggressive mouth health campaign was inaugurated to cover the whole of the province. "Save the children and you save all," to paraphrase the well known slogan of a commercial group, seems to be the keynote of the Alberta authorities. To quote [the words of the minister of health, Hon. George Hoadley, the policy of the government is as follows: "The department of public health takes the attitude that the health and wellbeing of the children of the province is of primary importance, and thoroughly realizes the fact that there are a great many instances where parents are too far removed from the cities or other hospital centers, or who are financially unable to undertake the considerable cost of bringing their children to these centers for proper treatment of remediable defects which are retarding their physical and mental development." Thousands of Alberta mothers are eager to have a visit from the travelling child welfare clinic which travels through the province during the summer months. During the summer of 1929 a total of 121 clinics were held at centers reaching all the way from the fringe of the Arctic to the United States boundary, and 2,566 children were examined. Of this number 772 only were found to be in perfect condition, and 1,794 were suffering from minor defects. This service to the pre-school age children is augmented by clinics for school children at which, in addition to the giving of hints on diet, posture, etc., operations are performed, eyes fitted for glasses, defective teeth removed and other work performed by government doctors, dentists, eye specialists and nurses. Usually some local community Organization cooperates with the health department in the holding of these clinics. In some of our Latter-day Saint communities the Relief Society organizations have given needed backing to the movement. Preliminary examinations are made by a qualified nurse and the condition of the children is noted. On the appointed day for the opening of the clinic, the travelling '"hospital" staff arrives by motor caravan, and further examinations are made and those in immediate need of surgical or dental help are tabulated for recommendation to the surgical clinic to be held the following day. Following these preliminaries definite arrangements are made with the parents or guardians of the little patients, including the time of assembly, necessary clothing, payment of fees and the signing of permission forms. The local committee, meanwhile, 32 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE has made all arrangements for hospital ward equipment—often the clinics are held in schools, halls and churches—and by early morning the clinic is well away. In a single year 663 operations for tonsils and adenoids were performed, 89 circumcisions, 1311 extractions and about 500 other dental treatments. In addition to this practical work, hundreds of others were either given prescriptions or referred to their family physicians or dentists for surgical and dental work. Scores were vaccinated. Underlying this travelling clinic service is help to the public, hence the fees are brought 'within the reach of parents of even very limited means. Operations for tonsils and adenoids are performed for $15 with other surgical work in proportion. For dental work extractions run from fifty cents to one dollar, fillings from one dollar to two dollars and other treatments in proportion. Great as is the immediate benefits to the child's physical and mental condition accruing from the work of the travelling clinics, the movement is having another and perhaps greater effect. It is a subtle kind of service, the creation in the minds of the people of a consciousness of the transcendent value of health. Alberta's vast stretches have numerous communities isolated from hospital conveniences, often from medical and dental services, and to these communities, struggling to gain a foothold in their new home, the travelling health clinic is proving a boon indeed. To these rural folk, many of them still halting in their use of English, there comes through this work privileges hitherto reserved for those living in the larger towns and cities.
