Lesson Department LESSON I Theology and 'Testimony (First Week in March) Book or Mormon—CHRIST IN AMERICA Assignment Read the matter in Third Nephi, chapters 8 to 20, including both. The time is A. D. 34. It will be helpful if the section about Christ can be read in Reynold's Dictionary of the Book of Mormon, and chapters Z8, 29 and 30 of Evans' Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon. Outline of the Lesson I. Three hours of natural convulsions. II. Three days of total darkness. III. The Voice out of the darkness. 1. Gathering of the people. 2. Their lamentations. 3. Message of the Voice. The great silence. V. Christ appears. 1. Introduction by the Father. 2. Message of Jesus. A. Physical test of His presence. B. Instructions concerning: Baptism, Harmony in the Church, The twelve disciples, Things to do in life, The sacrament of the Lord's supper, The "other sheep," Attendance at religious meetings. 3. Acts of Jesus before the multitude. A. Heals the sick, etc. B. Blesses the children. C. Prays before the people. Story of the Lesson The lesson opens with great convulsions of nature—thunder and lightning, earthquakes, floods, and other eruptions. Whole cities, with their inhabitants, are completely destroyed in these events. After this there comes a period of excessive darkness—three days of it—when it is impossible to strike a light of any kind. This period coincides with the time of the crucifixion of Christ in Palestine and that during which His body lay in the tomb. Then comes the Voice from out the darkness. It is heard by all the inhabitants of the continent. Following this is a great silence. Afterwards, when some two thousand five hundred people are gathered near the temple in the land of Bountiful, Christ appears. N His first appearance among the Nephites Jesus invited the people to come forward and touch the wounds in His hands and feet and side—which they did. Then He taught them essentially the same principles and ordinances that He had done in Palestine—repentance, baptism, confirmation, with their common basis, faith; prayer. The 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sacrament of the Lord's supper, attendance at religious meetings; and the various ideas in what is the Sermon on the Mount in the Gospels, with differences. Also He chose twelve disciples, the understanding being, presumably, that these men would organize the Church. Before He ascended to heaven after this first visitation, He healed the sick, the blind, the deaf, the halt, and whoever in the multitude was afflicted in any way; and blessed the children amid heavenly manifestations. Notes This description of Christ's appearing to the Nephites is a valuable addition to what is given in the New Testament concerning Him, and deserves the most careful attention from this point of view. A great many Christians have yearned for more information about Jesus than is given there, more intimate details concerning Him. Well, here it is, if they will receive it. For, as a matter of fact, we do get a more intimate view of the Master in Third Nephi, which has been called the Fifth Gospel, than we do in the biblical account. This is due to the greater, more child-life faith of the Nephites. Jesus says this Himself. For one thing, He speaks more plainly to the Nephites than to the Jews. Observe what He says about contention, about baptism, about the "other sheep." For another thing, He gives way to His feeling of joy and thanksgiving here more than He did among the Jews in Palestine. He seems to be under less restraint. He does not hesitate to weep in the presence of the people around Him: Across the waters He wept only in the presence of a few close friends. And then, too, He opens His heart in praise and thanksgiving to God before all the people. And for still another thing, He grants even the wishes of the multitude. He heals all their sick. He did not do that in Palestine. Only occasionally did He perform miracles there. Besides, note how He yields to their unexpressed desire that He stay longer. They are hungry, too, and tired. This is a great scene—one of the very greatest in all history. 2. Skeptics have found fault with the Book of Mormon on account of the almost identical language of what is sometimes called the "quotations" from the King James version of the Bible. The fact is, however, that this is not a real objection to the Nephite Scriptures, as is sometimes claimed by outsiders. Most probably, when the Prophet Joseph came to a "quotation" in the 'Nephite Record from, say, Isaiah or Matthew, he turned to the passage in the version of the Bible with which he was acquainted, and copied it. But that it was not a mere copy, set down without thought or inspired guidance, is evident from the differences between the passage in the Book of Mormon and that in our Bible. For instance: Blessed are the poor in spirit who come unto me, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are all they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost. In both of these verses the italicized words are not in the Gospel of Matthew. There are many other instances of a similar nature, where the Book of Mormon version clarifies the thought or adds to it. A difference on a larger scale is to be found in the thirteenth chapter of our lesson, beginning with the twenty-fifth verse. Scoffers have ridiculed the idea LESSON DEPARTMENT 53 that Jesus should advise people generally to take "no thought" as to what they eat and drink, and trust to God for "food and raiment." The fact is that Jesus was speaking, not to the multitude when He said these and similar words, but rather to His twelve disciples. The Book of Mormon makes this clear. But one might be led to think, from the passage in Matthew, that He was speaking to the crowd. It will be found that in very many instances where there are "quotations" in the Book of Mormon from the Hebrew Scriptures, the variations always throw light on the meaning or situation. 3. There is the same tolerance and wide sympathy on the part of Jesus in the Fifth Gospel that there is in the other Gospels. Only, in the Nephite Record it is shown in a slightly different way. While the sacrament is not to be administered to those who are "unworthy" of it, yet they are not to be 'cast out." On the contrary, they are to be worked with and prayed over, not spurned and ignored; for, says the Master, "ye know not but what they will return and repent, and come unto me with full purpose of heart, and I shall heal them; and ye shall be the means of bringing salvation unto them." Here, too, Jesus exhibits His great concern for the human personality, for salvation. The disciples are to "continue" to "'minister" unto those who manifest indifference to Christ. 4. And this thought leads to another not far removed from it in kind. It is what Jesus calls "my doctrine." Here is the bedrock of the Christian ideal. The idea is stated thus: "Ye must repent, and become as a little child, and be baptized in my name, or ye can in no wise receive these things. And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and be baptized in my name, and become as a little child, or ye can in no wise inherit the kingdom of God." Jesus deems this idea so important that He repeats it in almost identical words. What does He mean? Note that He says nothing here about faith. That is taken for granted. For no one will repent unless he first believes. But He stresses repentance. It is a great principle of life. Life consists of struggle, of trial and error. The main thing is to keep struggling against the tide of evil in the world. So repentance is just as necessary after baptism as before it. He also emphasizes baptism. Baptism is not only a sign of our obedience and a symbol of a new birth, but it is a token of absolute trust. In baptism we put ourselves utterly in the hands of the one who is baptizing us. Here is a child-like simplicity. Some people would have us believe that to be like a child is the worst thing that can happen to us. But what is the main trait of childhood? Is it not unconventionality, open-mindedness, an eagerness to learn, teachableness? Persons who object to this statement of Jesus about being like a child always assume that blind obedience is the main characteristic of childhood. It is not. Obedience need not be blind at all. Intelligent obedience is not. There is always a reason why we should obey those who know more than we do. As a matter of fact, do we not accept others' word in politics, in government, in education, in science, in business. 'Why should we not do the same thing in religion? 5. Jesus discourages "contention" as being "of the devil." Contention is not the same with discussion and a good-natured ex34 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE change of views. Not all the wisdom of the world is in one head. Some of it is in other heads. In a class, for instance, it is not necessary for anyone to "contend" that his particular opinion is right—even if it is so. Others are entitled to their views, even though they may be in error. On any particular point it is a good thing for everyone to state his opinion, without argument, and let it go at that. Out of all the views there will assuredly come light. In the end, probably, everybody's view will be somewhat different from what it was to begin with—maybe more nearly right, certainly clearer. Where a class, a debate, a discussion, is carried on in this spirit, the devil can have no leeway. He always gets his work in where people "contend" over their opinions. This is what Jesus means, most likely. Questions and Problems 1. Why do you think the people gathered round the temple after the natural disturbances? 2. Find other passages where there is light thrown on_ biblical verses. 3. Does God bring on calamities, or merely let them come upon the children of men? 4, What differences as to the body are there to be noted, so far as we have information, between Jesus before and after the resurrection? Work and Business TEACHER'S Topic For Marcu (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in March.) Our RESPONSIBILITY TO SUSTAIN CHURCH ORGANIZATIONS "No one can survey the history of modern progress—its philanthropy, its reforms, its industrial responsibility, its political democracy—without recognizing that the chief accession of moral force which these movements have received has come from the Christian religion." "The whole duty of man is not to enjoy God forever, but to descend with the grace of God to the help of man. The Christian Church is not a place of refuge from the world, but a place of training for the world. The Christian life is not a retreat from stormy winds and tides of woe, but an advance through them; not a hiding beneath the Mercy-seat, but a rising from one's seat for the sake of mercy." "The sanctified life is the serviceable life, and in that service finds its freedom." —Francis Greenwood Peabody. "Not always on the mount may we Rapt in heavenly vision be; The mount for vision—but below The paths of daily duty go." Women, from the beginning, have been great inspirers, great teachers—they have been noted as most ardent supporters of the Church. LESSON DEPARTMENT 55 Since Church institutions are for the welfare of its members, women should avail themselves of the opportunities offered, and encourage others to benefit from active participation therein. I. They should sustain Church institutions themselves: By attending meetings. By speaking in their favor. By encouraging their husbands and children to attend and uphold them. 4. By giving them financial backing. 5. By teaching their value in the home.; 6. By pointing out their benefits to friends and neighbors and encouraging them to attend. 7. By acting as teachers and officers when requested so to do. II. They should uphold those called to preside in the different associations, giving them their most ardent support. They should not dwell upon the faults and failings of the officers, but note their strong points and commend their devotion to duty. IIT. They should tell the officers how much they appreciate their service. Literature (Third Week. In March) Tue Suort Story In GERMANY Suggested Short Stories The Coming of Gandin by Gottfriend Von Strassburg™. The Sick Wife by Christian Gellert. The Fury by Paul Heyse. The Triple Warning by Arthur Schnitzler. A New Year's Eve Confession by Herman Sudermann*. To devote just one lesson to the Short Story in Germany is somewhat like taking a trip around the world in a Zeppelin and looking out of the window but once. German literature is rich in short stories and her writers have contributed much to that form of art; yet the stories of this country are, in many instances, not as well known as they deserve to be. Nor has their influence been as wide as might be expected of so intellectual a nation. There are several reasons for this. As with anything else, stories existed before their terminology was known, and German short stories are as old as German literature. But the German mind, which takes so easily to analysis, divides and subdivides its subjects, and the short story has not escaped. The Germans have made so many classes, instead of holding to the one term, novelle, that it has been difficult for the non-German reader to understand that the short story as we understand it exists in Germany. However, since the World War, editors and other writers in Germany have tended to adopt the two terms, novelle and erzahlung, just as in English we have the short story and the tale. Moreover, as a usual thing, the German short story is too long, giving a great deal of space to description. It is not at all uncommon 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for a German short story to be from twenty to thirty thousand words long, while we favor our short stories from twelve hundred up— and the upward limit is soon reached.. Another reason is that the Germans have lost many excellent stories (novellen) through not collecting them in books. Thus their stories die too early and they lose the dignity of permanence. (Many of the stories in our Church have been lost for this same reason.) Then the German critics have been unkind to the story writers. A large number of them have taken the attitude that there have never been great short stories in German and that the modern writers have no claim to greatness. And it is also true that in Germany it is hard to find a representative writer. Indeed no German has ever written the complete history of the short story in his country. Germany, however, has been, kind to the writers of other nations, for their translations include most of the literature of the world. In spite of these drawbacks, the German short story ranks in quantity and quality with that of other nations. Up until 1200 there was no distinct type of short story for the very reason that there was no prose in which stories might be written. Germany was almost two centuries later than France in developing her prose. Readers may find this next statement hard to credit, but it was not until 1687 that Christian Thomasius amazed his colleagues at the University of Leipzig by announcing that from then on he would deliver his lectures in German instead of in Latin. Martin Luther, born in 1483, has been rightly called the father of German prose. Yet it was a good many years after his birth that the German language became an effective medium of expression. Some two hundred years before Martin Luther there had been a number of classical writers, Gottfried Von Strassburg among them, but for a long time after the German language was given such impetus, there were no gifted writers. Boccacio was translated in 1460 and the Gesta Romanorum of England was also made available, giving Germany something more exciting to read than anything she could produce. It was the Reformation in the sixteenth century that brought about great reforms in economics, religion, and philosophy, and it was during the period of 1500 to 1770 that the seeds were sown for modern German literature, of which the short story is an integral part. During this period Germany's greatest universities were either founded or took their place in the intellectual life of the nation. Previous to the appearance of the universities, critical thought was an almost unknown thing. Authors were so intent upon their moral that they forgot style and form. When the professor arrived, he emphasized art for its own sake and analyzed for his students the strengths and weaknesses of his materials. Translations became more common and German literature was founded. From the sixteenth to well into the eighteenth centuries, many different types of stories flourished— Volkbrecher, fablen, and marchen to mention a few. These stories differed in two ways from the modern conception: They were didactic and they appealed too much to the supernatural. Gottsched, for more than half of the eighteenth century, taught at LESSON DEPARTMENT 57 Leipzig that prose should be used exclusively for theorizing. But while the professor talked, the people were reading Schnabel's Insel Felsenburg, Germany's Robinson (Crusoe. And in 1776 Shakespeare was translated into prose and was produced on the stage. People learned that the great English writer had used short stories for his sources. The short story had come to stay. 1796 to 1830 was approximately the great period of the Romanticists. These writers felt that in their stories they should tell of something that had never been written before. Heaven and hell and strange worlds in between were used to stir the imagination, and Italy and Spain were resorted to more than Germany itself. A number of these writers, among them Tieck, Wieland and Goethe, tried to establish the novelle as a distinct form. The real short story writers among the Romanticists were Kleist, Hoffman, Tieck, Brentano, Arnim and Eichendorff. Kleist was the greatest genius and is the best dramatist of Germany, while Hoffman was the most gifted story writer. It was he who greatly influenced Edgar Allen Poe. Hoffman was endowed with a mysterious sixth sense and his characters today seem as so many Dr. Jekylls and Mr. Hydes, ghosts, sprites, vampires, doomed men, and fairy children. He did much to introduce the novelle and to make it an enduring type, and he did not write one indelicate line. Many lesser writers have failed in imitating Hoffman. His genius was too strange and great. Brentano was the son of a family with partly Italian blood. He introduced humor into the short story and Eichendorff used his genius to champion loveliness and to glorify the charms of nature. Of the next group, Paul Heyse, 11830-1914, was the leader. Rather than draw his material from Germany he went to the Southlands for his stories. It was in 1910 that he won the Nobel prize in literature. He was a great admirer of Boccacio, and especially of one story, "The Falcon," which will be studied later in the Italian group. From this one story Heyse derived much of his theory for writing short stories. 'His theory has also been widely accepted. Many of the best short stories in Germany were written from 1870 on to the World War. Women now began to add to literature. One of the first of the earlier writers was Annette Von Droste-Huhlshoff, 1822-1891. Since her time there have been Marie Von Ebner-Eschenbach, Helene Stcekl, Isolde, Kurz, Gabriele Reuter, Richardo Huch, and many others. Some of the later writers who have won world fame are, Arthur Schnitzler, Thomas Mann, Herman Sudermann, Jacob Wasserman, and Zweig. Schnitzler and Sudermann will be written of in more detail. Thomas Mann is considered by many to be the greatest of the living German writers. In 1929 he won the Nobel Prize for his "Magic Mountain," and his first great novel, in a way the autobiography of his youth and youthful thinking, is ""Buddenbrooks." Herman Sudermann Herman Sudermann was born in East Prussia in 1857, of a poor Mennonite family. At the age of fourteen he was apprenticed to a chemist, but the boy was not satisfied and by various struggles he was able to enter the University of Tilsit, and later the University of Berlin. He tutored, did many kinds of work, and wrote for the newspapers, 58. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and at one time was a journalist. It was in 1885 that a collection was made of his newspaper stories, and the next year he wrote one of his great novels, "Dame Care" (Frau Sorge). Since then he has written much, stories, novels and plays. His characters are swayed by passions, sorrows, and mental twists which everyone is familiar with in some degree. Thus Sudermann's characters give his readers a feeling of kinship and of sympathy. He is almost always sympathetic with his characters and has a firm faith in the saving power of women, a theme running through many of his writings. Arthur Schnitzler Great writers are often associated with great cities—Dickens with London, Zola with Paris—and Arthur Schnitzler and Vienna are inseparable. He is a product of the Austrian capital and he writes of every phase of Viennese life, though he is more apt to avoid the very lowly and the very high. His love for his city is not of the intense political nature some men feel. He loved it under Franz Josef and he loves it under his President. 'What has held him true has been the city that housed Mozart, Beethoven, Haydn, the city that is filled with great architects, painters, sculptors, actors, singers, writers, and scientists, the city of restaurants, laughter, and waltz music. Of Schnitzler's personal life little is known. He feels that this is his own private affair, and he does not want his biography written. He was born of a family of Hungarian Jews, his father being a noted doctor of medicine at the University of Vienna. Dr. Johann Schnitzler loved the theatre and his private practice included many renowned members of the operatic and theatrical world. 'So 'this son came rightly by his love of drama and music. Arthur Schnitzler was born May 15, 1862 and became, like his father, a doctor of medicine. Later he turned more to the practice of the psychological phases. Of medicine and many of his dramas and stories revolve about a doctor of that type. He has always kept up some private practice, even after his fiftieth birthday, when he was recognized as Austria's most gifted writer. Schnitzler has beautifully molded features and a sensitive face, and his writings are sometimes delicate and fragile. For a long time he had little confidence in his gifts, keeping his writing in obscurity. His writings are for a public, sophisticated in life as well as in art. He invests human life with the grace and charm of poetry, but through it all runs a strain of melancholy. His cynicism is not distrust in human nature; rather it is the knowledge that comes with complete vision of man's frailties. If he has any fixed philosophy to guide his writings, it is that man is uneven and so are his days. He feels that temptation is everywhere and the person who escapes it is not so often strong as merely inactive. Arthur Schnitzler is not the greatest writer Austria has produced, but he is the most interesting. In his own field, that of creating tragedy ending with hope in the offing and of comedy closing with pathos near, he is without a superior in any nation. To the Teachers: You will find that most of these German stories will be enjoyed by the class members. The first and the last in the suggested list have been starred as being particularly appropriate. Schnitzler's story, too, is short and will arouse a great deal of comment. The "Sick Wife" is also brief and will be enjoyed for its humor. One of woman's traits has a long history. "The Fury" is a beautiful and romantic story, and is found in almost every collection of great short stories from various nations. The pronunciation of the German names may seem a little difficult, but they are, on the whole, pronounced just as they are spelled. Sudermann has the oo u and the a is a short a. To give all the others would require too much time and space, but you cannot go very wrong in pronouncing them. Questions The Triple Warning: What is the theme of this story and what is Schnitzler's philosophy? Is the meaning allegorical? A New Year's Eve Confession: Are you aware at any point in the story (not counting the climax) that either the husband or the friend knew who held the wife's real love? Do you believe the husband's last statement? In what way does this story show Sudermann's belief in good women? Is this a true short story? Why? Is this story strictly German in local color and character? What is most emphasized, plot, character, or action? What is the conflict in this story and who is the chief character? The Fury: Mention details that place the characters of this story (a) racially, (b) socially. Who is the dominant character? What clues show Laurella's love for Antonio? Why did she struggle against her love for him? If her inner struggle is the chief one, what other struggle is also important? Show how the two combined make one large conflict? Which is the scene of dramatic climax? In what way does the curato contribute to the story? What is the length of the action? Have you obtained anything from these stories that will give you a better insight into the German racial characteristics? Social Service. (Fourth Week in March) PERSONALITY STUDY: Based on Overstreet's "Influencing Human Behavior," HABITS AND GROWTH pages 169-183, 201-216 "The most widespread disease of humanity," remarked a great sociologist in a lecture before the students of the Alpine session of Brigham Young University, "is the unwillingness to work." During his travels in many different countries he had observed unmistakable evidences that in the presence of work to be done, practically every human being tries with more or less success to "let George do it." Countless interesting subterfuges are invented—The Chinaman lets his finger nails grow so that he can't work. The American becomes a LESSON DEPARTMENT 59 60 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hobo or finds an easy "white-collar job." The European often manages to "let the women do the work." Religionists throughout the world very frequently lose sight of the spur to individual achievement presented by their early prophets and conjure up much more lazy and comfortable means of salvation. Such observations and generalizations correspond remarkably well with those which have been made by psychologists. In a former lesson our attention was directed to a human characteristic, sometimes called the "tendency to minimum effort." Thorndike gives it as his impression that "the majority of men remain far below their limit of efficiency, even when it is decidedly in their interest to approach it, and when they think they are doing the best that they are capable of." This "tendency to minimum effort," coupled with a desire to maintain our self respect, leads to a number of mental habits that hinder our personal growth. What our personalities are like, as we have already seen, is largely the result of our past training and experience. During our lives we pass through many specific conflicts in the effort to make satisfactory social adjustments to the environments in which we find ourselves. These struggles are for the most part mental in character, but they are none the less real and important in their consequences. They are efforts at self-preservation (seldom mere physical self-preservation), and the "advancement of one's ego." The typical outcome of these mental battles is not complete victory nor complete defeat, but rather a sort of not altogether satisfactory compromise. Since the habit-systems that make up our personalities crystallize more or less as a result of our reactions to the conflicts we pass through, it may help us to understand various possibilities if we list some of the types of reaction which are frequently adopted in these mental struggles. On the one hand we may assume and hold more or less continuously an aggressive attitude, facing reality and recognizing rather honestly whatever the outcome may be. The genuine optimist may be taken as a person likely to adopt this attitude. He is not only willing but anxious to take into account unfavorable facts, but he also has an aggressive program based upon an unfeigned confidence that evil can be overcome with good. On the other hand we may adopt one or more of a number of types of somewhat well known defensive reactions. We shall enumerate and discuss just seven of them. 1. We may recognize but refuse to meet the difficulty. An example of this is the pouting reaction seen in children and not infrequently in some adults. The pessimist also furnishes us with typical reactions under this heading. Even at his best he recognizes the existence of evil, but seems to lack the faith and willingness to expend energy which is required to cope adequately with the situation. 2. We may avoid battle by denying to ourselves and others the existence of any issue that should give us concern. Here we may point to the counterfeit optimist so often met with— the "cheerful idiot" who, of course, has no program of social betterment, because whatever is, is "fine and dandy" and "couldn't be better." Also typical of this reaction is the keeping of our religion and business or our religion and science in separate "water-tight" LESSON DEPARTMENT 61 compartments of our minds, so to speak. Perhaps this condition would not be so comfortable to us if we knew that our friends sometimes suspect us of lacking intellectual honesty and the genuine kind of faith that dares to inquire. 3. Sometimes rather than admit our present defeat we try to overshadow it by keeping in mind some previous victory. An example is the repulsed lover returning for comfort to a consideration of the time when he was his mother's darling. Mr. Nebbs and Major Hoople of the comic strips, seem to resort to somewhat similar regressions in order to bolster up their self-regard with least bother to themselves in the way of present achievement. 4. Which one of us has not taken satisfaction in the midst of conflict by congratulating ourselves as being more fortunate than the other fellow—the one who didn't even get a chance to be a "goat," for example. Self-consolation obtained by playing the role of a snob, either as an individual or as a group, (there are many varieties), is a rather poor way of blinding ourselves, and as one writer says it "simply kills any initiative we may have to improve our position." (See Overstreet, pages 178-181, also Jno. 8:31-39, Alma 31:16-28, Rom. 2:17-29). 5. Sometimes we soothe ourselves by dwelling in a world of phantasy, considering either the great things we might have done or the easy victories that some day will be ours. Mr. Overstreet takes quite a thrust at some so-called Christians who evade the religious responsibilities of the here and now by dwelling too much upon supposed matters pertaining to the next world. Such people seem to despise their present existence, referring to it as passing through a "vale of tears." They have an intense and supposedly pious yearning to be freed from all that pertains to this earth and to come into possession of the peace and supposed rest of heaven. The sentiments expressed in the songs which they sing with especial fervor are like the following: "Come on, my partners in distress, My comrades through the wilderness, Who still your bodies feel: Awhile forget your griefs and fears, And look beyond this vale of tears, To that celestial hill." "Fair land!—could mortal eyes But half its charms explore, How would our spirits long to rise, And dwell on earth no more!" "I languish and sigh to be there, Where Jesus hath fixed his abode; O when shall we meet in the air, And fly to the mountain of God!" Of course Latter-day Saints should not fall into the error of being too other-worldly in their concerns, or of despising their mortal bodies and this earthly existence. It is more typical for us to sing songs with sentiments appreciative of our present natural surroundings, and of the need of making this world a better place in which to live. Then, too, the prophet Alma plainly says that "now is the time and the day of your salvation." In the same spirit Brigham Young said: "We ought not to speak lightly of and undervalue the life we now enjoy, but so dispose of each passing day that the hours and minutes are spent in doing good * * * in improving our talents and abilities to do more good. * * * "It would be no blessing to you to be carried into the celestial kingdom, and obliged to stay therein, unless you were prepared to dwell there. "This life is worth as much as any life that any being can possess in time or in eternity. * * * 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "It is my business to teach mankind how to live, how to honor their present existence, how to treat their bodies so as to live to a good old age on the earth, and have power to do good." (Discourses of Brigham Young, pages 140, 146, 446, 513.) To continue our enumeration let us mention briefly just two more very human reactions to conflict. 6. A seemingly very satisfactory and frequently used way of explaining away defeat, is to shift the blame for our failures to the shoulders of someone else. Our successful rival "had a pull." The devil was working against us or again on the basis of no real evidence at all, we may even blandly remark that "it was God's will." 7. Sometimes we succeed more or less in exonerating ourselves by rather skillfully shifting the blame to certain uncontrollable circumstances that seem to be plausible explanations. The failure would not have occurred except for our ill luck, bad health, or our alleged condition of over-work or inability to sleep, and so on. Before leaving the subject of defensive reactions, it should be emphasized that typically in most of them we are not ourselves aware that we are using them. We not only succeed in fooling others to some extent, but we are perhaps most successful in "kidding" ourselves, and that is the real pity of it all. Happy may the person be who was brought up during his childhood with plenty of experience with success so that he has not developed a lot of fabrication habits to hinder his progress. Of course this does not mean that he should never have come face to face with hard problems to solve, but he should be guarded from an undue number of impossible ones that preclude any chance of success in spite of a reasonable amount of ingenuity, industriousness and persistence on his part. A Few of the Possible Problems for Discussion 1. Explain briefly the two basic drives mentioned in our text, viz. Self-regard and least effort. In this connection read and comment upon the quotation from Swift, given in the September Magazine, page 516. 2. Mention several maladjustments which people might make in relation to the mental conflicts they encounter. 3. In relation to the tendencies toward other worldliness which might even afflict some members of our own group, read suitable extracts from the following songs in our book of Deseret Sunday School Songs, Nos. 52, 60, 123, 139, 197, 207, 222, and 228. Have any songs with sentiments like those in the verses quoted above been included in our Sunday School song book? If so, are they favorites with us and what is their source? 4. We sometimes speak of ourselves as being the "chosen people" of God. Can it be possible that with some of us this notion serves us just like the fabricated superiority which Overstreet speaks of—buttressing our insecure self-respect and nourishing the "tendency to minimum effort?" Or do most of us feel challenged to worthy effort because we feel that our people have been chosen not so much for favor as for service and responsibility? 5. In the biography of a Latter-day Saint missionary to the Society Islands, it tells of his efforts to dislodge the native converts from their "indolent reliance upon ceremonial for salvation. * * * To them religion was an invitation to comfort and peace, rather than a call to adventure and service, often to heroic performance." He had come to appreciate the fact that "religious and moral character * * is an achievement, not a gift; an invitation to struggle and accomplishment, not to peace and security." Compare the insight of this missionary with that reflected in such Bible passages as the following: Hosea 6:6; Micah 6:6-8; Amos 5:14-15, 21-24; Isa. 1:10-17; Jer. 7:5-7, 21-22, Matt. 25: 31-46; Jno. 8:31-39, Rom. 2:17-29. 6. Read Mosiah 18:8-13; Alma 31:16-28; 34:28-34; 41:14; II Nephi 9:16, 33, 38; Mormon 9:14; D. & C. 11:12, 20; 58:26-29; 108:99, and comment along the line of the thoughts suggested in problem five. To what extent do these extracts from characteristic Mormon scripture emphasize a conception of religion which does not permit of careless procrastination or empty emotionalism, or a lazy reliance upon mere rituals and ceremonies as substitutes for initiative and self-effort here and now as essential conditions of salvation? 7. It is fairly easy for us to recognize defensive reactions in other people, especially in children. Suggest several specific ways of helping them. How may we ourselves overcome these tendencies? In their extreme forms to what do they lead? 8. We have all heard the saying that "nothing succeeds like success." Of what importance is this idea in relation to personality development? Should children be provided with a lot of cheap or undeserved "successes?" If not, what are the characteristics of real successes and what should be done to bring them about? 9. Read carefully page 181 of our text and write out your best comment on it for presentation before the class. 10. In Chapter XII, Overstreet discusses in a clear manner certain interesting problems of social and political progress. With what part of this chapter do you find yourself in closest agreement? Point out one or two things he expresses with which you do not readily agree. HAPPY LITTLE FOLK AT THE PRIMARY CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL LESSON DEPARTMENT 63
