Notes to the Field The Board hopes through this department to keep in closer touch with the stake workers. As soon as your Magazine comes, turn to this page to get the latest word from the General Board Social Work Contemplate the scope of social work—"all conscious effort to help human beings, including mass betterment as well as individual betterment"—-comes under its aegis. It includes preventive as well as corrective work., With this in mind, one sees the many problems that may engage the Relief Society worker. We thought a special number of our Magazine, giving the history of social service and some of the work being done among us, would be interesting and profitable to our readers. Magazine Agents We cannot publish the honor roll promised in our letter of August 6, 1930, until more of our stakes send in the information asked for. Kindly let us know at once what your membership was in 1930 and how many Magazines were subscribed for in your stake. What is your membership in 1931 and how many subscriptions have you sent in for this year? In response to our 'August 6, 1930, asking that a house to house canvass be made in the interest of Magazine subscriptions, Grant Stake Board offered a prize of ten annual subscriptions to the ward that should get the highest percentage of its members as subscribers, and five annual subscriptions to the ward that should secure second place in the contest. Later, a third prize of five annual subscriptions was given, as one ward had made such an exceptional record in both letter of yearly and half-yearly subscriptions. Burton ward won the first prize with this record: membership, 69, yearly subscriptions, 62, half-yearly subscriptions, 10. Whittier ward secured second prize, with 58 yearly subscribers among their membership of 65. The third prize went to Southgate ward, with a membership of 41, which secured 23 yearly subscribers and 34 half-yearly subscribers. We congratulate Grant stake, which is the first, and at the present time, the only stake which has sent in the information asked for in our above mentioned letter. In 1929 they had 465 subscribers, or 43% of their enrollment. This year (1930) they have 652 subscribers, or 52% of their enrollment. Subscription Lists Relief Society Presidents: Kindly instruct your Magazine agents to state which month to begin subscriptions with when sending in orders for the Magazine, so as to avoid duplications, as it is our custom to commence subscriptions with the current issue, unless directed otherwise. The Eliza Roxey Snow Poem Contest The interest in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest increases from year to year. There were 77 entries this year, eight more than for 1929. The winner of the first prize is Sarah Ahlstrom Nelson of Rexburg, Idaho, for "Abraham Lincoln." The second prize is awarded to Merling D. Clyde of Price, Utah, for "Unto the Least of These," NOTES TO THE FIELD 43 Honorable mention is given to Claire Stewart Boyer of Salt Lake City, for "Up Past the Stars to God," Edith E. Anderson of Tremonton, Utah, for "To a Relief Society Worker,' and to Katheryn L. Clyde, Heber City, Utah, for "My Masterpiece." The judges of the contest were Dr. Sherman B. Neff, head of the English Department of the University of Utah; Mrs. Elsie Talmage Brandley, associate editor of the Improvement Era; and Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter of the General Board. We congratulate the winners and express appreciation for the many excellent poems that were submitted. Give Alloted Time to Class Leaders The success of our meetings, as well as our educational program, depends upon the efficiency of our Class Leaders. When these faithful women spend hours, often days, preparing their topics, it is discouraging to have the lesson period shortened. Reports frequently reach the General Board that Class Leaders are curtailed in the time for giving lessons. One capable, enthusiastic sister prepared a Theology Lesson, expecting to have forty-five minutes for the presentation. Meeting began a few minutes late, full fifteen minutes were used in singing practice; a Stake Board member in attendance was asked to speak, and twenty-five minutes time was reserved for testimony bearing, leaving far too short a period for the Theology Lesson with its vital and inspiring message. The General Board recommends that announcements be made when the meeting is called to order; that as far as possible the business of the Society such as receiving new members etc. Be transacted in Work and Business Meeting; that there be no singing practice on Theology and Testimony day. We hope our Presidents will carefully plan their meetings and not permit anything to interfere with the time allotted to our Class Leaders. Music in Our Organization Choristers and Organists, how are you succeeding with the music in your organization? Is it representative of your ideals? Are you using successfully the ten minutes allowed for good lively community song practice? Are you teaching new songs and creating a renewed interest in good singing? Does the music in your ward reflect the standards of our people? Is the character of the music in your organization such as would attract and increase the enrollment of new members? Is the music of your organization keeping pace with the other fine intellectual activities of the Relief Society? Are you yourself so enthusiastic over your work that your enthusiasm is contagious? Choristers and Organists, emphasize a more active participation in music on the part of the Relief Society members. Help them to realize the value of preserving in adult life the musical aptitudes which were developed through public school music, and other musical activities. The product of this training must have found its way into our Relief Society groups. Try to establish in the hearts of our sisters this idea, this desire—Hear Music, Make Music, Enjoy Music. Let us all remember there are no age limits to music—that music is the real fountain of youth. Music is a sacred, a divine thing that lifts us up to God. It helps us to feel His glory. (Continued on page 65) Notes from the Field North Sevier Stake: RELIEF SOCIETY workers are always interested in the report of the floral -festivals of the stakes. That held in the North Sevier stake on August 20, 1930, was extremely successful. The Redmond Ward Recreation Hall was the scene of this very beautiful exhibition. It was under the direction of the president, Mrs. Melissa Crane. A program consisting of a one-act play and a musical number by the Relief Society chorus, was rendered. The judges of the floral offerings were from the Gunnison stake Relief Society, and they included experienced florists who declared that the display was of unusual merit both in variety and beauty. Cash prizes were given for the best ward displays. Salina Second ward took the first prize, the second prize went to the Redmond ward, while the third prize went to the Salina First ward. Ribbons were given for individual entries. Following the demonstration refreshments were served by the Redmond ward Relief Society to 250 guests. Franklin Stake: ON August 5, 1930, in compliment to the executive officers of the Relief Society of the Preston Second ward, Franklin stake, a very splendid social was given in the ward chapel. This was an activity of the Relief Society. The hall was beautifully decorated with flowers; paper cap souvenirs were given to all the guests. The stake Relief Society presidency, the board members and the ward bishopric were in attendance. A spicy program was given which featured the great scope of Relief Society work. A little playlet called "Angels of Mercy," was presented, after which 'a delicious luncheon was served. Covers were laid for 80. It was the feeling of the group that the affair was a most decided success. FESTIVE BOARD OF FRANKLIN STAKE NOTES FROM THE FIELD 45 Alberta Stake: ROM the far north comes a most interesting account of Relief 'Society activities. On Saturday, October 18, 1930, there was a demonstration of the Work and Business Day of the Alberta stake Relief Society. The Cardston Gymnasium was the scene of this very remarkable exhibition. All the wards of the stake had assisted the officers in preparing the exhibits for display, and the people of the town particularly had donated many articles for re-sale to those whose funds were insufficient to purchase the new articles. The Gymnasium walls were covered and several tables about the room, showed articles that were most tempting. The total quantity of goods that were displayed was remarkable, and offered a wonderful opportunity for scores of people who were in attendance. 'Not only was it a fine chance to profit by the bargains offered, but it was an excellent exhibition of the skill and the frugality that is taught through the medium of the Relief Society. One of the most interesting phases of the demonstration was the work-saving devices. At one table was shown a dressed wild duck, illustrating an easier way to clean these game birds, especially in the removal of the pin feathers that are so great a bugbear to the housewife. After plucking the large feathers off the bird, it is covered with a thin coating of hot paraffine, applied with a cloth or small brush. When this hardens it may be easily scraped off, taking with it every pin feather. Another device was to demonstrate how onions may be cut without touching them or getting the juice in the eyes and causing so much weeping. Another method was how to make a quilt in an hour's time, displacing the old-time quilting bee where 7 or 8 women call on you and spend a day of toil slaving over the quilt. Cookery too, which is always interesting to the men—if the women do it—was demonstrated, and all those fancy little things as the making of letters and designs on cakes, putting those frills on cooking, which do not really cost any more, and create so many appetizing features. Another helpful hint was how to mend socks without so much waste of time. There were a hundred ways of how to do the common little things in an uncommon way. Another very valuable feature of this was the day's program on _ the method of providing good reading material in the home. The Relief Society sisters are creating an exchange reading table, and have it under the direction of one of the stake board members. They take all the spare magazines, newspapers or other periodicals available from the homes where they are found in overabundance, and distribute them in the homes where the people are without good reading material. Hundreds of magazines which would otherwise be food for the furnace or the bonfire find their way to homes where children are hungry for the things printed in them. The work is just beginning, but it can be extended indefinitely if once people get behind the movement and give generously of their spare magazines. A most useful section of the demonstration was the clothing booth, where articles had been remade or cleaned and repaired, and many bargains were to be had. Altogether it was a most remarkable demonstration, covering the scope of Relief Society activities and demonstrating just what can be done when these earnest women cooperate, as they do in this forward looking stake. 46 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "THE CONVERSION OF KING LAMONI," LOGAN STAKE Logan Stake: > picture shows a cast of characters from the Logan 11th ward, as they appeared in a pageant called "The Conversion of King Lamoni," given under the direction of the Logan Stake Relief Society. This is quite in keeping with the theological studies for this year. The pageant is taken from the Book of Mormon, the 18th and 19th chapters of Alma, and opened with soft music singing "God moves in a Mysterious Way His Wonders to Perform." The presentation was beautifully rendered in all wards of the Logan stake at the ward conferences, each ward supplying its own cast of characters. The purpose of this demonstration was to create a desire in the hearts of every soul to seek the truths that are to be found in the sacred book. A very keen interest was taken, and every performance was to crowded houses. This is certainly a very splendid demonstration of vitalizing and bringing actively before the people the magnificent messages of the Book of Mormon. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD. President First Counselor Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND. Ae General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Manager Louise Y. Rosison Assistant Manager B Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Amy Brown Lyman Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake 'City, Utah Voit.

Notes to the Field (Continued from page 43) Special Instruction For Choristers and Organists: DURING the month of January a specially designed course for stake and ward choristers and organists will be commenced in Idaho Falls, Logan, Ogden, Salt Lake City, Provo, Ephraim, and Richfield. The course, which will be made up of six free lessons given over a period of six weeks, has been outlined by the General Music Committee of the Church with the assistance of the Church's music institution, the McCune School of Music and Art, and six prominent music leaders from the faculty of that school have been selected to present subjects included in the course. These instructors are: Edward P. Kimball, Organist of the Tabernacle; Lester Hinchcliff, Director of the Ogden Tabernacle Choir; C. W. Reid, former director of the music department of the B. Y. University; Anthony C. Lund, Director of the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir; Reginald Beales, violinist and teacher of violin and ensemble groups at the McCune School of Music and Art; and Tracy Y. Cannon, Director of the McCune School and former organist of the Tabernacle. This valuable series of lectures and class discussions is intended not alone for the Church musicians in the centers mentioned; it is sincerely hoped by the General Boards of all the Auxiliaries that all the music officers in their organizations within convenient traveling distance of a class meeting-place will attend the six classes. The first class in each locality will be given on the following dates: January 5, Ephraim; January 10, Logan; January 12, Richfield; January 17, Provo; January 19, Salt Lake City; January 24, Ogden; January 26, Idaho Falls. We especially urge all choristers and organists in our Relief Society organization to take advantage of this exceptional opportunity wherever possible. This instruction is given to the Relief Society free, through the courtesy of the General Board. The Russell Sage Foundation: THE Russell Sage is one of the seven great foundations, and is an institution established in 1907 by Mrs. Russell Sage, with an endowment of ten million dollars. The purpose of this was to establish a Foundation for the improvement of social and living conditions in the United States. The Foundation does not attempt to relieve individual or family needs, but merely to study and investigate, in order to eradicate the causes of distress The work is distributed among several departments, including the Charity Organization Department, the Department, of Industrial Studies, Division of Remedial Loans, Department of Surveys and Exhibits, the Division of Recreation, Division of Publication of Library and Statistics. It is with the Charity Organization and with the Library and Statistics and Survey, that the Relief Society has had most contact. The Charity Organization Department RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 66 has made studies of Marriage Administration in the several states, with the object of announcing a year minimum age law for girls. The Division of Recreation has done much to develop the Community Center idea, the Division of Remedial Loans has thrown light on the methods of loan sharks, and has promoted co-operative Loan Societies. Through its library many of the very finest works on social service have been published and made available at a minimum cost. The Foundation has also supervised the development of the model suburban community at Forest Hills, Long Island. The Department of Surveys and Exhibits has, by constant effort, kept the community informed of its problems, and therefore has served as a great educator of public opinion. It is in the Department of Surveys that the present Year Book has been completed, and is the most comprehensive thing of its kind ever attempted in the United States. When assembling the material for the Social Service Year Book, Mr. Fred S. Hall, the editor wrote to the secretary of the Relief Society, and expressed his thought that the book would not be complete without an article on "Mormon Social Work," Mrs. Lund wrote the article asked for and we are happy to have it appear in this valuable book. She Never Refused to Sing By Linda S. Fletcher She was an old, old lady Upon whose gentle face, A life of love and service Had left a kindly trace. "I sang for the Queen," she murmured, I might have won wealth and fame; The annals of earth's illustrious Might have glorified my name." "But I joined a humble people; In trial, my gift would bring To them a comforting pleasure, And I never refused to sing." "Now I am old and feeble, But still, 'tis a marvelous thing, I have never lost my talent, I still have the power to sing." "Last Night," and her eyes grew misty, "I trod the streets of gold; And, it seemed, in this heavenly vision, That I sang, as I sang of old." "And I know, very soon, my daughter, My spirit in joy will wing To the blest abode of my loved ones, And I'll sing for my Heavenly King." Procrastination By Alice Morrill There are aching hearts repining For the words you did not say. There are hope-lost souls a-needing Faith-sweet prayers you did not pray. There are hungry hearts a-longing For the love you did not give, There is cruel need, depending On your pleasure to relieve. There are baby-lips awaiting For your truant, fond caress There is dearth-of-blessing calling You, who never think to bless. There are lonely ones still listening For the song you did not sing, There are empty arms a-reaching For the gift you did not bring. There's a broken soul now stranded By the heart-worn, heavy road; For you never sought to cheer him, Never thought to ease his load. Distinctive
