. What the Social Service Institute Means to Us By Laura A, Watkins, Logan Stake Representative (Address given at Relief Society Conference, Oct. 1, 1930) AM very happy and feel very much honored in being asked to try to explain to you people just what this institute means to a stake worker, although I sense very keenly this responsibility. I wish it were possible for me to convey to you one hundredth part of the inspiration and some of the beautiful thoughts that came to me during the institute. JI marvel that a course could be so unique yet so broad in its scope as to include so many varied yet closely related subjects in six short weeks. I do not know how it would have been possible to have made better arrangements or more profitable contacts. The course was very intensive, there 'was no time wasted. Every minute was planned for our enlightenment and comfort and to give us the greatest possible benefit. I feel that it is one of the biggest movements forward in Relief Society work. The stake officer who has the opportunity to attend is indeed favored. I know it is a sacrifice to leave home for that length of time but it is well worth the effort. I am grateful that it was possible for me to attend all the class work every day as there was something really worth while in each contact. You know there is an unspoken language that travels from soul to soul, and my heart was touched. I have heard it said that religion must be caught, not taught. I believe the real lessons of life must be caught as well as taught, and the 'teachers 'must have the power to make one feel as well as think. I believe our dear sisters who so patiently and faithfully labored with us, will ever remain in our memory as a teaching power. WOULD say to the stakes who will have the opportunity to send delegates to the social service institute that it was the most profitable six weeks I ever spent from an educational viewpoint. It is the first time I have ever had the privilege of studying the theory and trying to apply it at the same time. When we discuss methods of dealing with people, then go out and come in direct contact with the problems of disease, poverty, neglect, delinquency and the heart-aches and heart-throbs that naturally accompany these unhappy conditions, we renew our determination to work a little harder, and study a little more the ways and means of helping to alleviate suffering. I do not wish to give the impression that because of this short course, I feel prepared to do efficient social work; rather I sense more keenly my inability to do so. But, it has given me a much broader understanding of what is expected and a greater conception of the magnitude of the work. I take it as a foundation for a beginning upon which to build. Through the observations made and the literature we have studied we can better understand some of the world's needs. One of the big impressions of the institute that came to me was the stimulation to a higher development WHAT THE SOCIAL SERVICE INSTITUTE MEANS — 35 of my own powers and to better prepare myself to 'live and help others make a more harmonious adjustment to life. The span of life has been increased by several years in the last decade, but what does that profit a person unless that life has been made more desirable? When we meet with so much unhappiness and suffering, we wonder what is wrong with the world and why this should be so. "Man is that he might have joy." Christ came to earth not only to make the redemption of mankind possible, but to set the proper example, and lead the way. He was the greatest sociologist the world has ever known, our greatest teacher, yet after two thousand years we are just beginning to realize what he meant when he said, "love thy neighbor as thyself." I WAS impressed with the thread of the many valuable thoughts which were carried over from one class into another, and through the entire period. I shall briefly mention a few: 1. Preventative rather than curative methods were stressed. The old adage, ''A stitch in time saves nine" is true in every phase of social work. 2. Early detection of problems is vital whether they present themselves in the form of physical or mental Illness, delinquency or what not. All educators today realize that childhood is the psychological time to lay the foundation for character and a happy future. 3. Home is the greatest of the institutions. Of course we know that the home is a divine institution, and that every Latter-day Saint woman should 'help preserve the finer elements of family life. But it is interesting to hear men who have spent many years studying social problems, declare that the home is the very basis of society and must he kept intact. 4. Another thought that Sister Evans gave out time and again was —in our work we should minister to the strength of people and not to their weakness. This thought comes to me often and IJ can see that it embodies volumes. To be able to do this, one would need to be blessed with tact, wisdom, understanding, knowledge, and would need to be judicious, and I wonder if it will ever be possible for me to develop in any degree these desirable characteristics, and yet we must use them all the time if we are to have any degree of success in our work. Ella Wheeler Wilcox recognized this 'when she said: "I gave a beggar from my little store of well earned gold, He took the shining ore, and came again and, again, Still cold and hungry as before. I gave a thought, and through that thought of mine He found himself, the man divine, Fed, clothed and anchored, And now he begs no more." My vision has been broadened by visiting the state and county institutions, under the direction of Miss Thornton. Time will not permit relating the many varied experiences and profitable lessons obtained from these visits. I should like to mention just a few of my impressions, I noted in visiting the mental hospital the decided change that has taken place in the past few years. That deep feeling of depression was not present in the same degree, there was a more cheerful aspect all around, also many comforts which were absent in my previous visit had been provided. I was very much impressed with the school for the blind and the deaf. Their process of learning was interesting in the extreme. I should 36 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE have enjoyed spending the entire day there. I was not so favorably impressed with the industrial school. It cast a gloom over me which I was not able to dispel. Perhaps it was because I knew those boys and girls were not there through choice, but to answer to the law for the mistakes they had made and their failure to comply with the rules of society. In one of the workshops there were many mottoes, one of which read like this— "Boys and girls are more in need of models than they are of critics." I wondered how many of them were there because of bad behavior patterns of parents, teachers, neighbors, and church members. One writer has said, "The night has a thousand eyes, the day but one, Yet the light of a whole world dies with the setting sun. The mind has a thousand eyes, the heart but one, Yet the light of a whole life dies when love is done." I N glancing over the countenances of these boys and girls, I again wondered how many had lost hope and faith in themselves, and if the light of their life had gone out; if so, if ever again it would be rekindled, or if they would later find their way to a penal institution. Somehow I could not help thinking that perhaps most of these children could have been spared this unpleasant episode if their early training could have been adequate. And I thought more seriously of our responsibility as Relief Society women. If we could throw out a thought or a kind word that would help some one along the rugged path, how worth while life would be. Why do we live unless to make life less difficult? Gillian says, "Tis the human touch in this world that counts, The touch of your hand and mine, Which means far more to the fainting heart Than shelter and bread and wine. For shelter is gone when night is past, And bread lasts only a day, But the touch of the hand and the sound of the voice Sing on in the soul always." In conclusion, let me say just a word about the personnel, both of the Family Service Society and of the Relief Society Social Service Department. I think I have never come in contact with office groups who have a keener sense of appreciation. You can just see the word service written all over them. Now what I have been trying to clarify in my own mind is whether social service work has helped these people develop that finer type of personality, or, because of their personality development and their sense of values, they have chosen to do as Christ said, "Feed my sheep." It is my firm conviction that every sister who has taken this course can truthfully say that she has been imbued with a sincere desire to return to her stake and comply with the Master's command—''Feed my lambs." May we all be blessed in our Relief Society work and may it continue to grow, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. They with the sun and moon renew their light For ever, blessing those that look on them.—Tennyson. Great deeds cannot die
