A Question in Case Work By Annie D, Palmer N the comfortable waiting room of a family agency Joe Mann, a lad of eleven years, sat waiting his turn for service. The office girl had paid no attention to Joe whatever as she supposed he was accompanied by one of the adults who was also waiting. The lad hung close to the radiator and fumbled his shabby cap contenttedly. When every one else had left the room the supervisor was informed that a very poor little boy had sat there for hours and was asking for "the lady what finds homes for kids." "That last place you got fer me haint no good," said Joe by way of introduction when Miss Morton appeared. "T'll have to try another." "Well—just what do you mean by no good? Why isn't it good, boy?" "My name is Joe Mann. What must I call you?" "I am Miss Morton. Grace Morton." "You hain't the one what sent me to Arnolds are ye?" "No. Maybe that was Miss Dar~ nell." "Yep. That's her. But she didn't know much about the Arnolds." "Didn't she? It's a nice home, isn't it?" "Oh, it's nice all right. But they hain't no place to live in it, nor to put things—not fer a boy, anyway." "T thought it was a big house. I don't understand." "You wouldn't. I guess you hain't never lived with some one where you didn't belong. Please, Miss Morton, can't you find my very own mother an' dad? Why can't I live with them?" "Tm afraid—" "Miss Arnold said she guessed they was too poor to keep me. I don't care how poor they be. If they'd jest let me set by the fire, an' cuddle close up to 'em sometimes, I'd love 'em anyway. An' maybe I could git a job sellin' papers or somethin'." "Your mother has gone to heaven, Joe." "Dead ig "Ves," "Has my dad gone to heaven, too?" "T don't think so." "Mostly men don't go there, 'do they? Maybe my dad went to hell." "That's where Mrs, Arnold keeps tellin' Mr. Arnold to go. Will you help me find my dad?" "Your dad would never make a suitable home for you. That's why your mother left him." "But I'd belong to him!" "What makes you think you do not belong to the Arnolds?" "Well, it's like this. Mr. And Mrs. Arnold set in the dining room an' listen to the radio an' talk about folks, an' wrecks, an' polerticks, an' earthquakes, an' everything. An' they don't care if I hear or if I don't. An then they git' close together an' speak low an look at me once in awile, an' nen -I know they're talkin' about me. So I listen awful hard, an' Mrs. Arnold says at I never can fit in an' she's a gonna change me fer a A QUESTION IN CASE. WORK oy girl or somethin'. Miss Morton, if you take me away from Arnolds, don't never send no girl there. I'd ruther stay myself. A girl couldn't stand it nohow." "What makes you think a girl couldn't stand it?" "Teacher says 'at girls is weaker —weaker—I dunno what that word is." "But Mrs. Arnold might be lovely to a girl." "Oh, no. She couldn't." "Where did you live before you went to Arnold's?" "In the Boy's Detention Home. I didn't belong there, neither." "Of course you didn't. Tell me about it." "Well, I was so hungry! Have you ever been turrible, turrible hungry, so 'at yer stumic jest felt kinda like it was mashed?" "Ves," "But you could go some place where you belonged an' git some dinner couldn't ye? I didn't belong nowhere, an' I asked some fellers on the street fer some money. So they told a cop 'at I was beggin' an' I got sent to the home. It was better'n Arnold's though." HE small office in which this interview was held grew dark, and the sophisticated young client became restless. Miss Morton was sorely puzzled. The lad had been placed in three different homes, besides spending a few weeks in the Boy's Detention Home. The only complaint against him was that he strayed about after school and was over sensitive about being corrected. The social worker began to see what it all meant. She remembered his earlier history, how his defenseless mother with her little brood had often left the home at nightfall in fear of the father who would come home drunk and beat them. She remembered when the mother a few days before her death had begged that her children be rescued from the man whose duty it was to protect and shelter them. Joe was too young to remember. He had been placed in an institution, When he became very ill he had been taken to a hospital, where he was kept for nearly a year. Then he spent a few years with a distant aunt, who took him only because she saw in his care a possible way to keep her own children from want. His father failed to contribute and finally the aunt was obliged to take employment away from home. She could no longer continue the care of Joe. It was then that the agency began the placement of the lad. Which, as already stated, developed into a series. The big brown eyes of the child ran over as Miss Morton gently patted his shoulder and assured him there must be a place where he really belonged; and that she and Miss Darnell would never give up till they had found the place. Tonight he must return to the Arnolds who might even now be wondering where he was. The weather was bitterly cold. Miss Morton offered a coat which Joe. Would not wear because it was too big for him. He confided to her that he had two good suits at the Arnold home, but was wearing these old clothes which were his very own because he had not intended to return. He was given a streetcar ticket which would take him within half a block of home. He was accustomed to going about by himself. That was no part of his problem. Miss Darnell had now returned to the office and Miss Morton called her for consultation. Miss Darnell 24 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE believed Joe was right about not being wanted at Arnold's. Mrs. Arnold had consented to take him only to satisfy her husband, and she seemed to grow more and more peevish about the extra work. She was jealous, too; and any attention shown the boy by Mr. Arnold was the occasion for a quarrel or an angry pout. Joe's school record was very satisfactory. He was quick and alert and often showed wisdom beyond his years. He excelled in music and art. Many of his drawings and water color pieces were exhibited among the best work of the grade. But he was underweight and seemed not to care to play. The young women decided that Joe should have another home. But they were more than puzzled about finding one. They got the bunch of application cards from the filing case, and went over them one by one. Nearly all the requests were for infants. There was a farmer in the southern part of the state who wanted a boy of the age that Joe might fit. But investigation had shown that the farmer was keeping his own boys from school a big part of the time; and that his concern lay much more in the raising of good hogs than in the training of potential men. A widow who had recently buried an only son had applied for such a boy as Joe, too. Her income was_ too meagre to think about, and her health was failing. Besides, every social worker would agree that what Joe needed more than anything else was normal family life, which means a father and a mother. It looked very discouraging for Joe. Miss Morton said nothing about it, but in her heart she wished that she herself could offer this fine little lad the kind of home he ought to have. Tie supervisor continued to rake her brain about Joe long after she went to bed that night, wondering who would take him, and how she could help to get him interpreted right. When they did place him again it must be with a better understanding of his needs and the feeling of security and friendliness that up to the present had failed to touch his life. At last the tired worker fell asleep and dreamed that she was a child again, closely folded in her mother's arms, while soft lullabies and gentle bedtime stories soothed her to rest. She thought of Joe wistfully while she took her morning bath, and sorrowfully on her way to work. There was something in the manner of this waif, in the appealing look of his beautiful eyes that she was quite unable to brush aside, as though he who felt that he didn't belong anywhere. Really belonged to her. She smiled to herself at what the verdict of such a piece of social work would be. "Who was Joe's mother?" she asked abruptly in answer to the pleasant "Good morning" of Miss Darnell. Miss Darnell couldn't remember, her maiden name wasn't on the record. Strange they had overlooked that. They must get the information from Joe. A moment later Miss Morton was called to the telephone. The icy tones of a proud woman answered her. "Mrs. Arnold speaking. Joe Mann was knocked down by an auto last night at dusk. His left leg is badly broken, also his left arm. The doctor says there may be internal injuries. The kid is in a very bad condition, and I can't stay with him. He is at the County Hospital. He is calling for his mother," A QUESTION IN CASE WORK 23 Miss Morton felt a wild impulse to rush to the injured lad, but it was really Miss Darnell's case. Why should she be chasing out on it. And what could any one do just now except to assure herself that everything possible would be done for the child at the hospital? When Miss Darnell returned she said even her visit was unnecessary because everyone at the hospital knew Joe and loved him. She found him lying still and white on his pillows gazing with admiration at a picture of his mother in a tiny locket. The peaceful look on his face had made 'Miss Darnell wonder if here was where he felt that he really belonged. A smart young attorney of the Legal Aid Society was asked to go after the legal phase of the situation in the hope there might be compensation. He found that the driver of the car had reported at the sheriff's office and no arrest was made. A ragged waif had darted in front of his car, the accident was unavoidable. He had paid $50 to the kid's father and had supposed the matter settled. The man was now held under a thousand dollars bail pending trial when Joe was better. For weeks Joe seemed to grow thinner and _ paler. The broken bones were knit, but the broken spirit continued to 'droop. Miss Darnell went out on vacation, and Miss Morton found a good reason for visiting the hospital. Joe smiled as she came to the bed and clasped his small, white hand. "How are you, Joe? Better?" she asked cheerfully. "Yep. Have you got a place for me yet?" "Well, you see we had to sort 0' wait for you to get well. You've been ill a long time." "T'll say I have. Only fer jest a poor kid like me, we call it plain sick. Shall I tell ye somethin'?" "Sure. A secret?" "Kind of. They's been quite a lot of folks here, doctors an' nurses, an'—an'—" "And lawyers?" "Yep. An' I've picked out a dad." "You have?" "But I hain't seen his wife yet. You said I must have a mother and a father." "So I did. Let's hope the wife is the very kind of woman you'd like for a mother, Joe. Have you talked to him about it?" "Nope. I thought you had to do that." "Oh, I see. Referring it to a specialist. Well, who is the lucky man? I suppose I'd better see him." "I've got a card with his name—" The child fumbled about under his pillow and drew forth a card with the name, Samuel R. Harvey, Attorney at Law. ''That's him," he said, "He's sure some guy. Calls me Mr. Mann. An' tells me about goin' fishin', an' says he'll hire me to caddy an' sweep his office when I git well. Gee, won't it be fine to earn money to buy clothes an' lunches?" Miss Morton had never met Attorney Harvey, but she had heard him over radio in a series of talks to boy scouts. She remembered how sound and inspiring these talks had been. How simple the words! How pleasing the voice! No wonder he had captured the heart of Joe. "You can see him today if you wait. He said he'd bring me some ice cream at four o'clock." "Tt's three-thirty now." "Three-twenty-nine to be exact. The lad held out his wrist for verification. 9 26 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Did he give you the wrist watch?" "Nope. He let me take it so's I can tell when he's comin'. I'm gonna buy it of him when I git well. He said it would help me to be exact." "Fine. Well, then I'll go and talk to the doctor, and come back ten minutes after Mr. Harvey does. O. K.?" "That will be exactly four ten, won't it?" D*: TAYLOR reported that Joe should be removed from the hospital, but there seemed to be no suitable home. Gaining. What he needed was mothering. His was a nature very fine and sensitive, one that responds quickly to environment; and a hospital is no suitable place for such patients. Miss Morton assured the doctor that she understood the situation and would do all in her power to get him located as soon as possible. When Dr. Taylor had hurried away, she still had ten minutes before she might again venture into the semi-private ward where Joe would introduce her to his friend. She earnestly hoped for the sake of the boy, that Mr. Harvey would consider giving him a home. \She hoped Mr. Harvey's wife would show the same fine spirit the boy had discovered in his attorney. And yet before the ten minutes were ended, she had half planned to herself undertake the care of the little patient; and she almost wished Mr. Harvey would not consider the request. Again she thought over her old casework principle that the child should have a father and a mother. She must undertake the delicate task of trying to place a boy where there was no application, and had never been He was not' the slightest indication that a child was 'wanted. How could she under these circumstances broach the subject to Mr. Harvey whom she had never met before? She felt almost eloquent on the subject of Joe's need, but would she be able to control her emotion? It was four ten "to be exact,' when she opened the door of the ward. Mr. Harvey sat with his back to the door holding the hand of Joe. "Now the nurse will soon be inviting me to leave," he was saying, "in which case I might get angry and not come back." "But you will listen to Miss Morton first, won't you? She wants to ask you somethin'." "I beg your pardon, Miss Morton," said the attorney, rising. "I thought a nurse opened the door. Be seated." "I can sit on the edge of Joe's bed," she replied, "while you keep the chair. I am so glad to meet you. So appreciative of your interest in Joe. So anxious for his welfare. You see we are looking for a suitable home for Joe, some place where he will feel security, and a sense that he really belongs. He is a fine lad, and I'd love to have him myself. In fact I had partly planned—only a boy needs a mother and. A dad. Besides, Joe has taken such a liking to you. In fact he has really chosen you, selected you, as it were; and hopes you can be induced to let him be your son—providing, of course, Mrs. Harvey might approve. You'll think me queer in making this kind of proposition to you when we are comparative strangers, and I must admit it is poor casework. My only excuse is the good of the boy. It doesn't need to be -decided today. Does it little Man?" A QUETION IN CASE WORK 27 The attorney looked her over for about a minute before he answered: "If you weren't so earnest and so frightened, I'd laugh. Of course I'm going to be a dad to Joe. He belongs to me! The picture he has in that locket is my sister Lucy, whom I saw last before Joe was born. But I have no home, and no Mrs. Harvey to consult. Can Joe stay here for two more weeks while I make preparation for the family life? And, Miss Morton, may I see you this evening and talk further about plans for the mothering of Joe? I know I shouldn't ask for appointments after office hours, but the business is very urgent." "It will be exactly two weeks, won't it?" Joe asked wondering. Mr. Harvey looked into the smiling eyes of the woman and replied: "I think so. 'We shall work very fast."
