The Relief Society Social Service Department By Genevieve Thornton (Supervisor Social Service Department, 1927-1930) PRINCIPLE that has made A for the steady growth of the —~ Relief Society is its success in meeting the needs of its people as they arise or as they assume more complex form. One of the most recent and perhaps the most interesting services to be developed to meet a special need is the Social Service Department maintained at Relief Society headquarters. This Department has grown out of the need of the Church in a city the size of Salt Lake for a central bureau where wards can bring their knotty problems of families in trouble to specially trained people for help in planning and in the mak-ing of adjustments. It has also grown out of the need of the city for a central agency. Through which unattached L. D. S. Families in distress who apply to, or are reported by other agencies to the Social Service Department can be put into touch with their local bishops or ward presidents. It is an agency through which all L. D. S. Families most satisfactorily receive any needed service of the organized social agencies of the city. And likewise, its function of teaching volunteer Relief Society workers throughout the Church how to most successfully assist with family problems in their own wards and stakes has grown as the importance of and the need for this work has become better understood. This work, under General Board direction, is carried on by means of special classes and social service institutes at headquarters and in the various stakes. TS Relief Society Social Service Department began in 1919 at the close of the war, during which trying period the Relief Society office had assisted the Red Cross with L. D. S. Family work. It commenced in a small way with one worker, and it has grown steadily until it now employs a supervisor, five family case workers, one employment worker and a stenographer. The late President Joseph F. Smith, always a friend to the work, advised the opening of this Department at Relief Society headquarters. This was done under the direction of President Emmeline B. Wells and her Board with Mrs. Amy B. Lyman in charge. The work grew steadily and increased practically to its present status during the administration of President Clarissa S. Williams, who succeeded'' Aunt Em" as General President of the Relief Society, and who was most actively interested in the development of the most approved methods of doing family work. But the leading spirit in the establishment and development of social work in the Church was and has continued to be Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, General Secretary of Relief Society from 1913 until 1928, and now first counselor to President Louise Y. Robison and 'Director of Social Service. To her tireless work and keen appreciation of the greater development of organized social work among our people is due much of the credit for the growth of social service generally in the Church, and of this special department with its various types of service. A. WARP bishops and 'Relief Soiety presidents in Salt Lake RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT 15 City and vicinity need the service of the Social Service Department in some ways more than do the wards in smaller communities, as conditions are such that in the city very few people who are not well situated financially own a home but rent instead. They move about a great deal from ward to ward so that in the more congested sections it is difficult for anyone to know their personal situation without making a definite study of this. City officers of wards in congested districts do not have the advantage of intimate, long-time acquaintance with these families, with their work and habits, relatives and general financial situation, etc., as is the case in the small town. In the city if Mr. Blank is suddenly taken ill and his family reported to the ward as being in distress, the matter of making the wisest and best solution of such a family problem is therefore not a simple one. And the number of such cases in many wards is so large that these ward officers, be they ever so efficient, find themselves unable to do all the work necessary even though they give most generously of their time. Also, they frequently feel the need of advice on some of the most knotty problems from people who specialize in social work. It is at these points that the Social Service Department is often asked to take up the case, get acquainted with the family and learn the facts about their present trouble, how the family and their close relatives feel matters could best be worked out, and what resources there are in the family and in the city for working them out. This often entails correspondence and contacts with agencies and relatives in other localities. Then the worker has a talk with the ward president reporting the case, explaining the situation and giving the recommendations of the Department as to what seems to be the thing that will help the family most. And together they work out details of the plan. The cooperation of the Social Service Department with wards often carries another advantage in that the Department is an agency of recognized professional standing in the community. Its recommendation to other social agencies in the city for service on a particular case is at once complied with so far as these agencies are able-to meet the need. For instance, if after investigation by the department it appears that Mrs. Jones should have care at the County Infirmary the County officials admit her there as soon as there is a bed available. Or if relief must be supplied in the home due to illness or other cause, the County Department of Charities will put this in upon recommendation of the Department. This saves considerable ward money, as recommendation usually is that the expense be about equally divided between church and county. This close type of cooperation applies to all agencies with which the Department works. Other social agencies refer all L. D. S. Persons asking them for service or assistance to the Relief Society Social Service Department for investigation and recommendation. Qi? Average number of families worked with in 1929 was 330 each month. These families are scattered through all the city stakes and close in county wards, the large number being in the more congested sections of the city. Of these, 220 families received some relief, while 110 received no relief but service in adjustments. Often the greatest need of a family is health or employment or educational opportunity 16 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE or a better understanding of and appreciation for each other rather than relief. The aim of the Department is always to strengthen the family in all ways so that it can carry its own load as soon as possible. THe Social Service Department as such handles no relief except a small emergency fund provided by the General Board and an also comparatively small milk fund which the General Board and the Stakes provide for. These funds are used in the various city stakes. Funds are supplied, as indicated above, through ward bishops and Relief Society presidents, and through the County Department of Charities, the latter relief on recommendation of Social Service Department. The General Board however operates a storehouse of used clothing, quilts and furniture which is given or loaned to needy families. In making budgets, clothing from the storehouse is relied upon for a considerable part of the clothing supply. HILE the handling of this family work is the major activity of the Department, its social service institutes held upon call of the General Board and under its immediate direction, is an important part of its activity. Almost since the organization of the Department this work has been carried on but has recently been intensified under the administration of President Robison to include church-wide instruction of volunteer workers in all stakes. It has been long recognized that rural districts have many of the same social problems to cope with as urban sections do, and' that instruction of social aids willing to volunteer some time with stake and ward work is of as vital importance there as it is in the larger centers. Therefore these social service institutes have been carried out to the different stakes upon their request for this service. In all, sixty such institutes have been held in the Church, varying in length from six weeks to a few days. Ward presidents, stake and ward social aids in attendance. It is only in Salt Lake City and vicinity that the benefit of direct assistance with case work from the Social Service Department can be made generally available. It is hoped that in the future this service from the Department can be extended to remote stakes by means of a traveling field worker who may spend a limited time in each section assisting wards with knotty problems. At present, during time that institutes are being held in outlying stakes some direct assistance iS given these stakes. In the institutes the women are taught the underlying principles of social case work and practical use of community resources. Also professional people and public officials with whom the workers will need to co-operate, such as physicians, educators, county officers, etc. Are invited to meet the group on the angles of social work in which they are most active. And the bishops are always invited to take part in these classes, it being recognized that one of the important points in good ward work is effective co-operation between bishop and ward president. The general educational value of the institutes can hardly be overestimated. They have up to date reached over twenty-nine hundred individuals. In addition to this regular institute work the Department has trained nineteen people who have taken up social work as a profession. It has also given some assistance in University of Utah Extension courses in receiving students for field work in family case work. Instruction and some field experiRELIEF SOCIETY SOCIAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT 17 ence has for a number of years been extended to L. D. S. Hospital nurses during their senior year. This service has been given at the request of these institutions. O*XE of the special activities of the Social Service Department which is of general interest is its summer outing work with underprivileged children in the various outlying stake Relief Societies. This work has been carried on rather extensively for the past six years. These stake Relief Societies have most generously co-operated with the Department in receiving the children into their homes, while the Salt Lake City stakes and the General Board have met the expense of transportation and necessary clothing, etc. These children are all undernourished or from homes where sickness, unemployment or other unfortunate conditions have deprived them of the home privileges that most children enjoy. These little folk have enjoyed these outings immensely and have shown a general gain in weight upon their return. The usual length of such outings is two weeks but some children have remained as guests for several weeks at the request of the homes in which they were entertained. Occasionally a child becomes homesick and is returned home before his time is up, but on the other hand last summer one little boy had such a good time on his Idaho outing that he later ran away from home, taking a little companion with him, and returned there without waiting for the formality of another invitation! And Cache Valley, Davis and Utah County stakes have been just as popular with the children. From 60 to 80 children are sent on these outings each year. In addition to the stake work in summer outing, the Utah Tuberculosis Association has for the past three years, since the opening of its fresh air camp in Cottonwood Canyon, received nine or ten children through the Department, children who are badly underweight or who are known to have been in contact with active cases of tuberculosis in their home. The purpose of this camp is to build up children who might otherwise contract tuberculosis because of run down condition. The children are given six weeks in this camp and last summer showed an average gain in weight of 4.5 Ibs. Each. Pi OME TBI important service maintained in the offices of the Social Service Department is that of an employment Bureau for women. In '1929 there were in all 1,867 positions secured by the Bureau. The larger number 'of these was for housework and cooking, but a few factory, laundry, sewing, practical nursing, pantry work, chamber maid, dish washer, waitress, janitor, nurse maid, maton, clerking, and office positions were also secured for women and girls. It is a service appreciated by many L. D. S. Women and girls. LL is the Relief Society, by means of its Social Service Department, rising up to meet the special growing need of its people for professional social service in solving some of the difficult problems at hand for the teaching of the many fine volunteer Relief Society workers to assist them in carrying on their work more effectively, for close cooperative work with community agencies, and for the carrying on of such other special activities as may be extended to meet a particular need of the people.
