[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | January | Issue: 6 | Title: R. S. REPORTS. | Author: Unknown]

R. S. REPORTS.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Lib-
erty stake Relief Society convened in the
Second Ward meeting house, December
6, 1907, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., with Pres.
Annie S. Musser presiding. The soloists
for the morning session were Miss Claudia
Hoge and Miss Woolley.
	After the opening exercises, etc., Pres.
Musser made a few opening remarks and
feelingly welcomed the sisters, and very
favorable reports were made by the presi-
dents of the 9th, 31st and 33rd wards, after
which Counselor Zurviah G. Eardley deliv-
ered a lecture on Prayer, followed by Sister
Nibley, member of the General Board. El-
der Milando Pratt of the high council of
Liberty stake, and Sister Annie T. Hyde, of
the General Board, bore their testimony.
	After singing the doxology, and benedic-
tion by Sister Jessie West, conference ad-
journed until 2 o’clock.
	Conference re-convened at 2 o’clock by
singing “O ye mountains high,” and prayer
by Sister Margaret Buchanan.
	Sister Harriet Harker, of the General
Board, gave us some timely instructions in
regard to our work, followed by a lecture on
Home, Wife and Mother, by Sister Emily
Davis, which was much enjoyed.
	Sister Annie K. Hardy, of the Ensign
stake, spoke to us for a short time, and
Miss Keddington rendered a solo.
	Elder Charles W. Symons, of the High
Council of Liberty stake, and Sister Peters,
of Salt Lake stake, urged us to be humble
and prayerful, and spoke words of comfort
to the Relief Society workers.
	A solo was then rendered by Mrs. Bessie
Browning.
	Pres. Musser made a few closing remarks,
thanking all who had helped to make our
conference a success.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Secretary.
		GRANITE STAKE.
	A program of unusual excellence char-
acterized the recent quarterly conference
of the Relief Society of Granite stake,
which was held in the stake taberna-
cle on December 10, 1907. We were fa-
vored with the presence of Sisters Bathshe-
ba W. Smith, Annie T. Hyde, Priscilla Jen-
nings, and Julina L. Smith, of the General
Board, and fourteen stake officers.
	An eloquent address on “The Blessings
of the Faithful” was given by Bishop J. D.
Cummings of Wilford ward. Two solos
were rendered by Sister Juliet C. Carter, and
some excellent remarks were made by some
of the visitors.
	The afternoon session was taken up by
the family of the late George A. Smith, in
continuation of the “Lives of Our Leaders.”
A biographical sketch of the life of George
A. Smith was read by his granddaughter,
Sister Irene Merrill Richards. Solo was
given by Sister Bessie Smith, Apostle John
Henry Smith paid an elegant tribute to the
memory of his father, said: Geo. A. Smith was
a worker—a man who was never overdone
or underdone in his duty; a man of energy
and sound judgment, absolutely fearless in
defending the right. An honest man, who
feared his God and none other, who believed
implicitly in the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, and who loved the
work of God more than all else—in short, a
Latter-day Saint.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith followed with
many interesting reminiscences of her hus-
band’s life and labors, and Sister Julina
L. Smith also paid a tribute to his memory.
	The singing was very good, and was led
by a choir composed of Relief Society chor-
isters and singers of the different wards of
the stake, under the direction of the stake
chorister.
	The attendance was excellent and all
went home feeling repaid for coming. It was
a day long to be remembered by all who
were present. 
	LUCY M. GREEN, Assistant Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00 one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B.WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	January, 1908.


[Column 1]
		THE NEW YEAR 1908!
	HAIL TO THE GLAD NEW YEAR!
	The new year opens auspiciously in most
respects, the weather is fine, and with the
one exception the tightness of ready money
making work scare there seems to be no
drawback to prosperity; new schemes for the
upbuilding of the State and promoting of
home manufacture seem to be underway, or
in the air at least, and it is ardently hoped
and very desirable that the developments
anticipated, along these advantageous lines
may meet with success. At any rate it is
pleasant to believe in looking ahead that
Utah will become a great centre of Western
industrial civilization, and side by side with
material interests and growth, educational
progression should go hand in hand until
Utah stands second to none of the other,not
even older states, and equal in all desirable
respects to the greatest and most highly
cultured.
	There is good reason, why Utah should
stand first; and the people of the state should
maintain the dignity of the position that
brought them here into the Great Basin;
they came in search of a home for liberty,
for freedom of conscience as did the Pilgrims
who planted their feet in Plymouth and es-
tablished the commonwealth of the old Bay
State, and the leading men and women who
came hither were the lineal descendants of
those Pilgrims of New England. Massachus-
sets has always held her own in this regard
and has made that state acknowledged as
first; that’s why Boston is the “Hub” so
should Salt Lake City become the centre in
all the modern graces and phases of en-
lightenment.
	Maintaining a high standard of excellence
as a state in all that pertains, or savors of
the best in citizenship is one of the right
ways to uplift a community. The constitu-
tion of Utah gives the key to the best meas-
ures and regulations for so doing and the
people should see to it in electing legislators
that they select men and women, who will
stand for the best interests of the entire peo-
ple and take a broad view of questions at
issue, instead of being persuaded to give up
rights, that should be guarded with the ut-
most vigilance, because there were those
politicians who could seemingly buy them
soul and body with silver-tongued eloquence.
	Utah is bound to take the lead in many
ways, but there must be honorable upright
men to guide the helm of state, and they

[Column 2]
should be men, who will recognize the women
who have done so much in the past to make
Utah what it is today. There are industries
that women (pioneer women too) started in
Utah that could be made to yield untold
wealth were they fostered as they should be
(and as they should have been) and given
the encouragement in the way (and in other
ways) of bounty, which was for a time
granted. We refer more especially to the
silk industry let us hope this interest may
be revived and become one of the sources of
revenue that will furnish employment for
women and children in the home; and not
only that but a source of wealth to the state.
If the men acquainted with history would
read what silk has has done for France they
would recognize that there is “a gold mine
in silk.”
	In these days when there are so many
tourists visiting Utah, silk specimens are be-
ing asked for and there is really nothing to
show them worth while. It is regrettable
that so many have cut down their mulberry
trees and become discouraged in trying to
keep up the industry at all. Even were it
turned over altogether to machinery and a
silk factory established on a permanent basis,
the silk must be produced by raising cocoons
and the worms must have the leaves to feed
upon.
	In days gone by the Relief Society made
every exertion possible, through the influ-
ence of President Brigham Young, to start
this industry; thousands of mulberry trees
were planted and cocoons raised and silk
worms and creditable work seemed to be
established on a small scale to be sure and
most of it in the homes of the people.
	Utah silk at the Columbian Exposition
was the pride of the women who were on the
Board. In fact more credit was given Utah
women delegates for the silk displayed than
anything else sent from the Territory. In
view of what has been done in the past there
need be no fear or anxiety about results if
the industry could be taken up by men of
means and enterprise.
	The EXPONENT extends hearty New Year’s
Greeting to all its readers and patrons, and
hopes for success in the year now coming
forward to all enterprises and institutions for
the benefit of the community.
	Especially we are desirous that the women
of the state should be interested in the public
welfare, and to read and study the momen-
tous questions that lie at the foundation of
morality, law and order, justice and equity.
To become familiar with the meaning and
purpose of equal suffrage now a constituent-
part of their freedom and liberty, and not
neglect to use the privilege given them un-
derstandingly and make no mistakes, for
where much is given much is required.


