The Latter-day Saints in San Bernardino
Evelyn Wilde Heath
Former President, San Bernardino Stake Relief Society

To San Bernardino, be sure to stop for awhile. It is called "The Friendly City," and well merits the name. It is cosmopolitan in its activities; its buildings are fine and modern; its streets are wide and straight. It is a beautiful city of about 57,000 population, the county seat of San Bernardino County, which holds the distinction of being the largest county in the world.

This city of beauty and unlimited advantages stands as a monument to the ingenuity of those farseeing men who engineered and planned it; a monument to the stout hearts of that fine group of Latter-day Saints who first settled in its valley. Perhaps San Bernardino, as a city, would never have been a reality had not ex-soldiers of the Mormon Battalion in California carried back tales of the country they had left, and of its superior advantages. These tales stimulated the desire of the saints in Salt Lake City to go there, and by 1850, many were anxious to move toward the Pacific.

Because of this, and a need to establish a wagon road to California, and also a place where converts, arriving from various points, might rest and equip themselves for the journey to Utah, consent was given for the move. The "Manuscript History" of President Brigham Young states that the original plan for this settlement called for about twenty persons, is or fortune ever leads you whereas, when they were assembled, the number approached five hundred.

Elders Amasa M. Lyman and Charles C. Rich were appointed as leaders. Elder Parley P. Pratt, who was heading a group of missionaries en route to the South Sea Islands, also accompanied the party. From his diary, and the diary of Elder Rich, comes much valuable information regarding the trip.

Brother Rich mentions Andrew Lytle as "Captain of hundreds," and David Seely and Joseph Mathews as "Captains of fifties." He refers, also, to Parley Pratt, Captain Jefferson Hunt, Samuel Rolph, and Wellington Seely as "Captains of tens," and to Elder Amasa Lyman as "Captain of two tens." We know, from this, that the movement was well organized.

During the early part of the journey the company traveled in two sections. In all, there were 150 wagons, 588 oxen, 336 cows, 21 young stock, 107 horses, 52 mules, and about 437 men, women, and children.

Needless to say, formidable difficulties faced them and, while their approximate route was the old Spanish trail of the thirties and forties, many were the trials encountered from the heavy desert sands, rocky country, steep mountain grades, and attacks by Indians. Stretches of dry desert wastes, with little water or food for the animals, were a constant hazard.

The photograph shows the gristmill as it was remodeled by William A. Conn after the departure of the Latter-day Saint colonists. Many accounts are told of the treacherous journey of this company, of their faith and their constant appeals to God to strengthen them and their teams, and of their miraculous deliverance from the horrors of the desert. One can, therefore, imagine their great joy that this trip was made with so little loss and misfortune.

At the latter end of the journey, Amasa M. Lyman, Captain Jefferson Hunt, Joseph Mathews, and Charles C. Rich preceded the wagon trains, and on June 9, 1851, reached the sycamore grove near the southern end of Cajos Pass. Captain Seely's fifties reached this point two days later, June 41, 1851.

The date on which these weary and footsore Mormon pioneers paused on the edge of the San Bernardino Valley is, indeed, a memorable one in valley history.

WITHIN A MONTH OF THEIR ARRIVAL AT THE SYCAMORE GROVE, this colony of saints held their first conference. David Seely was elected President of the mission, with Samuel Rolfe and Simeon Andrews as counselors, and Richard R. Hopkins as secretary. From the intimate views of life in San Bernardino as recorded in the minutes of Brother Hopkins, much rich material has been gathered.

That the pioneers were welcomed into the valley, first reservedly, then with greater confidence because of their apparent fine qualities, is certain from an account taken from The Los Angeles Star early in July 1851, which reads: We learn that they (the Mormons) are negotiating for the purchase of the Rancho of San Bernardino from the family of Don Antonio Maria Lugo, by whom it is held. This is the site of the old Mission of San Bernardino. Here probably this interesting people will make their first establishment on the shores of the Pacific.

A later and less reserved mention is quoted from the same source: The Mormons are an industrious community, and will develop the resources of this county to an extent that will give it an importance second to no county in the state.

After careful consideration, negotiations were concluded for the purchase of the San Bernardino Rancho for the sum of $77,500. One realizes from this the vast undertaking and obligation that lay ahead of these settlers. In those days, the settlers were vulnerable to vicious attacks by the Indians regardless of the friendly attitude the saints held for them, and it was necessary to build a strong stockade, which was accomplished by the donated work of all the men of the settlement.

The stockade occupied approximately 700 x 300 feet of space. The walls were of fifteen-foot cottonwood and willow logs, split in half, and set three feet in the ground side by side. Upon this spot, where once stood the stockade, the fine building of the San Bernardino County Court House now stands, while a marker designates the place as "The Mormon Stockade."

Crowded into this small space, housewives must have had many nerve-wracking experiences for the men were away the greater part of the time. They were heroines indeed.

Here they remained, waiting for the surveying and laying out of the city. As with all Latter-day Saint settlements, the planting of crops was paramount. It is recorded that by December 1851, a field of 1300 acres was selected as a grain field, and a 300-acre field for summer crops. Also, a tract for a vineyard was laid out.

Early in April, Elders Lyman and Rich planted the center stake for the City of San Bernardino on Temple Block (now Pioneer Park). This was located on E Street, between Fifth and Sixth Streets. Mr. Hess, a surveyor, assisted them. When the streets were laid out, the ones running east and west were numbered as at present, but those running north and south were given names. The present E Street was Salt Lake Street, and D Street was Utah Street.

A canvas pavilion had served as an assembly hall, but in April, a "bowery" was erected. It was an adobe building sixty by thirty feet. Here the conference was held on April 6, 1852. This building served for day school for 125 scholars under the direction of two well-qualified teachers and was also used for Sunday services.

Much mention is made of the importance of schooling for the children of the settlement. The first gristmill for the production of flour was located near the intersection of the present Mill and Allen Streets. The mill wheel was to be turned by water diverted from Warm Creek. This work was begun in May 1852.

A note dated June 26, 1852, written by Brother Hopkins is of special interest: Today we have the pleasure of receiving news from our friends in the Valley (Salt Lake).... Near nine months has elapsed without our hearing a word from them. All hands turned out and gave hearty welcome to eight numbers of the Deseret News.

That the spirit of love and charity existed in this early settlement is very evident by the fact that the first Fourth of July was celebrated, on July 5 (the Fourth being Sunday), by harvesting the grain of Elder Rich during his absence on a trip to Salt Lake City. Every July Fourth, thereafter, was celebrated in patriotic fashion.

That the valley was fertile and crops successful is certain for it is recorded at a "Harvest Feast" held September 4, 1852, such specimens were displayed as a stalk of Indian corn sixteen feet high; four onions weighing nine and one-half pounds; a cabbage weighing twenty-four and one-half pounds; with melons, squashes, and other vegetables in proportion.

On November 7, 1852, Colonel Henry Washington, a United States Deputy surveyor, completed erection of a monument on the top of Mt. San Bernardino. Through it ran the base line from which surveys in the southern part of California were, and still are made. This street is called Base Line today.

In the Fall of 1852, Captain Jefferson Hunt was elected to the Legislature of California and in April 1853, he introduced a bill to form San Bernardino County from the eastern portion of Los Angeles County. This bill was passed. The following month, Elders Lyman and Rich and Brother Thorpe began work upon their sawmill on Mill Creek.

This met the settlers' needs for several months; then, in order to reach the top of the San Bernardino mountains, where a greater amount of timber could be obtained and where another mill would furnish further lumber, it was necessary to build a road. This enormous task was accomplished by the men of the Latter-day Saints' settlement alone. It is estimated that the project cost about 1000 days of labor. A monument, in honor of the men who built the road, was erected in 1932, at a point where the old road, made by them, crosses the present highway.

One wonders at the great FIRST STEAM MILL IN THE SAN BERNARDINO MOUNTAINS 389 accomplishments of these early-day settlers, and especially at the building of so many sawmills, which space will not permit to be enumerated, nor credit given to their builders, but for which an engine and boiler were even dismantled from a British vessel, and hauled into San Bernardino. 'This was done by Charles Crismon who is credited with having the first steam sawmill on the mountain top. Brother Crismon was active in many sawmill operations.

Equipment for another mill was shipped around the Horn to Wilmington. The equipment for the various mills was evidently freighted to the mountain tops by the use of block and tackle or the snubbing post, and the united strength of many oxen. The Latter-day Saint settlers furnished, not only their own people, but Southern California, as well, with flour and lumber from their mills.

This mill was built in Huston Flat, about 1853, by Charles Crismon. In 1865, it was moved to Blue Jay camp in Little Bear Valley, then to Pacific Electric camp, and finally to Lake Arrowhead.

This monument, in the San Bernardino Mountains, marks the point where the present highway crosses the old Mormon road, which was built for hauling lumber down from the mountains.

ANY new settlers were now arriving in San Bernardino valley from various points and news was becoming more plentiful with their arrival. At about this time, Elder Lyman, Elder Rich, and their company began the erection of a store building. Goods for the store were bought in San Francisco, and shipped by steamer to San Pedro. Ten teams hauled these goods from the steamer to San Bernardino.

In September 1853, the survey of the City of San Bernardino and the laying off of the streets was begun. The city was divided into blocks with one-acre lots, and it now became possible for families to leave the stockade, and begin to build homes. This was followed by an era of building business blocks and various community structures, as well.

In 1853, the saints in the valley also came into personal contact with a national undertaking. This was of great importance, for, under the direction of Jefferson Davis, then Secretary of War, the Federal Government surveyed Cajon Pass with reference to its suitability as a railroad pass.

The next year, the City of San Bernardino was incorporated, and on June 5th was held the election for the first city officers, as follows: Mayor, Amasa Lyman; the council, C. C. Rich, G. W. Sirrine, Daniel Starks, William J. Cox, and Q. S. Sparks; Marshall, J. D. Holliday; assessor, Theodore Turley; treasurer, J. H. Rollins; attorney, A. A. M. Jackson. Ordinances were adopted to restrict drinking and gambling.

In the spring of 1855, freighting to Salt Lake began on a commercial scale. The United States Government had expended $25,000 of the amount needed for improvement of a road between Utah and California.

This building is on the site of the old Stockade. Note the street marker, with the Court house, and designating it as the "Mormon Stockade."

Elder Lyman and Elder Rich were called in 1857 by the Church authorities to return to Utah, and on about April 16, they, with others, making quite a train, left San Bernardino for Salt Lake City. In this train was Joseph H. Ridges, a convert from Australia, who later built the great organ in the Salt Lake Tabernacle.

The responsibility of the property, and its remaining indebtedness, now rested on Ebenezer Hanks. In the records of Brother Hopkins appears the following: October 30. The mail from Great Salt Lake City arrived at San Bernardino with lots of news. President Brigham Young thinks the valleys of the mountains (in Utah) is the place for the saints.

THIS was about the time when the coming of Johnston's Army threatened the security of the people in Utah, and was, no doubt, one factor which influenced President Brigham Young to recall the San Bernardino settlers.

On November 2, President Cox received counsel from President Young to forward the saints to the valleys of Utah as soon as possible, in wisdom, and November 3d found quite a number of the saints leaving San Bernardino for Utah. It is easy to imagine the heartache and disappointment felt by those saints who had struggled so unceasingly to make a settlement.

On February 15, 1858, Brother Ebenezer Hanks formally deeded to William A. Conn, George L. Tucker, and Richard G. Allen, the last of the San Bernardino Rancho—about 25,000 acres—for the sum of $18,000. This cleared up the indebtedness and left a little balance.

Captain Jefferson Hunt was, perhaps, one of the last to leave the valley.

So ended one of the most touching chapters in the history of Latter-day Saint pioneering.

Note: The author used "Heritage of the Valley" by George W. and Helen P. Beattie as a basis for much of the information found in the article.