WOMAN'S SPHERE Ramona W. Cannon

N March, Utah music lovers listened to Dorothy Eustis, playing as concert pianist with the Utah State symphony orchestra, a brilliant and sympathetic rendition of the Grieg concerto. Across America, from Town Hall and Syracuse, New York, to Seattle and California, she has given concerts, playing with Beecham, Iturbi, Kruger, Stokowski, Sevitzky. She is regarded as one of the foremost young pianists in America. She made piano recordings for the moving picture Carnegie Hall.

The great-grandparents of Miss Eustis lived in Utah, and Dorothy is married to Phillip Farnsworth Cannon, son of Mr. And Mrs. Espey T. Cannon of Salt Lake City.

LYDIA HAMP BAKER (Mrs. Charles Baker), believed to be Utah's second oldest woman, celebrated her 100th birthday in February. She is a convert to the Church from Northamptonshire, England.

MRS. GERHARDENA ALBRIGTSEN TAYLOR, 80, died March 21. A convert to the Church from Norway, she married John Wade Taylor in 1885 and has since lived in Ogden. She was both teacher and treasurer in the Third Ward Relief Society there.

ORA PATE STEWART'S book, God Planted a Tree, is a genealogical picture of the generations of God's covenant children from Adam through the various dispensations. By graphs, intelligent condensation, and piquant comment, the material is made vital, clear, and interesting.

HE nationally-known Ziff-Davis Company has announced that any woman in its organization who gives birth to a baby will receive three months' leave of absence with full pay.

MRS. M. BROADBENT, wife of David A. Broadbent, daughter of Joseph R. Murdock, and mother of fourteen children and grandmother of twenty-six grandchildren, has recently been honored as "Utah State Mother" for 1948. Mrs. Broadbent's Church and civic service has been outstanding and she is known as a charming and gracious homemaker, a devoted friend, and a good Samaritan among her neighbors.

The Girl Scout Convention in Long Beach, California, a Utah woman, Mrs. Alan H. Means, was presented an award of appreciation for services rendered. Now honorary vice-president of the organization, Mrs. Means was national president from 1941 to 1946.

N June 18, 1873, Susan B. Anthony was fined because she insisted on voting at an election in Rochester, New York.
 
THE relationship between a father and a daughter is particularly precious. The father gives protection, provides the necessities of life, and above all bestows his priceless companionship. The daughter, as she grows and develops in discernment and appreciation, gives love, admiration, respect, and obedience. These emotions and loyalties are bright strands that hold the family close together.

Most important in the life of the daughter are the early, vulnerable years, which may not be remembered, but which, nevertheless, shape the pliable contour of all the years to come. The father and daughter began to get acquainted when the father took his baby in his arms and cradled her with tenderness. The attachment grew as they went walking together. She was only as tall as his knees and there was a great distance from there up to the top of the father's head, but his face was kind and she could look up and see how the wind ruffled his hair and she could look down and see the great strides his feet made, and she had to skip fast to keep up with him.

How tenderly a father watches and protects his daughter through the years of young womanhood, knowing that in her choice of friends and in her developing attitudes, lie the great determiners of all her future life. Few fathers would ever say, "See that you get a husband as good as your old father once established for her." Overlooking faults, always strengthening virtues, the true father stands back of his children in strength and tenderness.

He is old and becomes gradually less able to take an active part in life, more and more he appreciates the frequent letter, the cheerful visits, the little remembrances and words of appreciation. Every unselfish, hard-working father is a great man—and he should be made to feel that his accomplishments have been far above the power of his children to measure.

I would keep forever in my heart the picture of my father standing in the doorway of our adobe ranch house, which he had built with his own hands, looking out over the golden acres of wheat that rippled up to the cedared hills. I would remember his words, as he pointed to the harvest, "There is your college education." And then the grip of his hand as he said, "It will be lonely without you."

But the love of a father endures forever—a treasure never dulled by time or distance.