Pressed-Flower Pictures
Dorothy J. Roberts

The hands of frugal housewives have long preserved the fruits of summer for winter appetites. Why should not then the fingers of the garden lover preserve the blossoms of the season for beauty-hungry eyes, since, as the poet Housman says, ". . . to look at things in bloom, fifty springs are little room."

Many flowers may be enjoyed beyond the brief period of their blooming by a bit of careful preparation and the whole family can participate in this pleasurable pastime. Have you ever seen a pressed-flower picture, or, more fun still, have you ever made one? Not only are these pictures delightful variations to hang upon your own walls, but they make charming gifts.

When the family become interested, they will, voluntarily, turn collectors and bring home from neighbors, relatives and friends, specimens not found in your own garden. Experimentation will soon prove which flowers hold their form and color best through the process of pressing. But press them in abundance, since the greater the variety of flowers, the more opportunities they afford for the making of satisfactory compositions.

The making of pressed-flower pictures has extensive possibilities in the field as well as in the commercial field. However, here only a few suggestions are given for those wishing to try a hand at a new hobby. Flowers should be pressed in warm, dry weather, or they tend to lose color and turn brown. They should be picked in their prime and pressed immediately. For this purpose have at hand a number of old books and a few heavy rocks to use as weights. One book will press several flowers. Old volumes may be purchased from used-book counters at small cost for this unscholarly purpose.

Remember the old adage, "As the twig is bent . . ." for, as you place the flowers between the leaves of the book, so you will find them shaped when they become dry. Arrange the petals in the most graceful way, with about an inch or more margin at the top and bottom of the page. Then close the book and compress for a moment before placing the next flower. When the book is filled, weight it with a rock or other books and a rock. Let them stand undisturbed until dry—a period of two weeks or more.

Small rock-garden plants, blue Veronica, white rock-garden spirea, and many others are dainty when pressed. Miniature roses and buds, clusters of climbing rosebuds, the pink ones, especially, are exquisite. Columbine, pinks, larkspur of all colors, Valeriana, small zinnias, and all daisies are good material. Pansies, carefully pressed, are bright and colorful. Sweet peas, especially white ones, are translucent and ethereal. Snapdragons are rich and full-bodied but require special pressure. Delphiniums are particularly delightful to work with, either in flowerets, or using the whole stock, because of their lovely shades of blue. Yellow, pink, and blue hold color well. Some reds and orchids tend to darken slightly.

As beginners, try pressing types of flowers which are not too heavy, such as large roses, nor too fragile, such as nasturtiums. By the end of your pressing season, you should have gathered, in your spare moments, a few interesting picture frames from dime stores or used-furniture marts. For the beginner, not wishing to make his own frames and not quite ready to attempt large, elaborate pictures, small, quaint, decorative frames are most suitable. A distinctive and inexpensive one is of dark mahogany, about an inch wide, with gilt beading at the inner edge.

Other supplies needed are a few 8 x 12-inch sheets of good drawing paper to use as backgrounds for your flower compositions. When you are ready for the framing, have this equipment at your elbow: a pair of pliers, a supply of small picture framing nails, a spool of thread and, if desired, a few hand-tied bows of pastel colored velvet baby ribbon to place near the stem ends.

When flowers and materials are ready, and you have a long, free, sunny day, prepare yourself for an uninterrupted period of delightful concentration. You will find that the children can, with your help, work out some attractive pictures of their own. Prepare frames by drawing out the nails with pliers from the backs of the pictures. Remove the glass and lay it aside until needed, discard the picture of the movie celebrity and keep the cardboard backing. Cut the drawing paper to fit the cardboard and on this drawing paper, fitted over the cardboard, build your picture.

Distribute your beauty crop of pressed flowers carefully over a white sheet on a large table where light is favorable and abundant. Spread the flowers in one layer so that you can see them all at a glance, for you will need to try out many combinations before finding the arrangement that is most pleasing. You will learn to keep each picture in one mood, that is, to select flowers agreeable in size, form and color, upon a harmonizing background. Do not use flowers too sparingly; have a substantial mass of color and pattern on your paper.

For example, try a group of tiny pink rosebuds and blue delphinium flowerets on a background of white sweet peas and white rock garden spirea with fine blue Veronica at the edges. Build this on a white background, with a perky blue bow laid lightly near the stem ends, if desired. Pansies of varied purples and golds are effective on a pale green or pale orchid background.

When you have worked out a pleasing picture, place the glass carefully over it, pressing firmly on the glass with the right hand to hold the flowers in place. With the left hand, gently push the entire picture to the edge of the table so that the glass protrudes about two inches beyond the table edge. Then place the left hand under the protruding edge of the picture and, still pressing the top of the glass with the right hand, turn the entire picture upside down on the table.

Now, pressing the spool against the head of the nail,