[Vol27 | October 1940 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Music Department Sing Stevens]

LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony
THE RESTORED GOSPEL DISPENSATION
Lesson 4
The Power of Loyalty?John Taylor and His Loyalty to Joseph Smith (Tuesday, January 7, 1941) "The Seer, the Seer!
Joseph the Seer! Or, how I love his memory dear! The just and wise, the pure and free, A father he was and is to me." (From ''The Seer" by John Taylor) BACKGROUND OF JOHN TAYLOR'S LIFE. On November 1, 1808, a child was born in Milnethorpe, Westmoreland, England, whose life was destined to be one of great activity until it came to a close at Kaysville, Utah, on July 25, 1887.
Born into a Church of England family, he sought diligently for a more vital religion.
When about fifteen years of age, he joined the Methodist Church, and two years later he became a local preacher.
Emigrating to the New World in 1828, he settled at Toronto, Canada, and became a Methodist local preacher. He was, however, not satisfied with the teachings of his church, for he writes of this period: "My object was to teach what I then considered the leading doctrines of the Christian religion, rather than the dogmas peculiar to Methodism." As a result of this dissatisfaction, he formed, with a number of kindred spirits, a study group, the purpose of which was to search the Scriptures to discover the biblical teachings concerning the fundamentals of Christianity. It was at a meeting of this group that Parley P.
Pratt preached the Restoration. Ultimately, all members of the group except one joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. JOHN TAYLOR AND THE PROPHET.
Journeying to Kirtland, Ohio, he met the Prophet Joseph Smith and at once became his ardent admirer and loyal supporter.
These were troublesome times in the new Church. Dissension, jealousy and apostasy were rife in Kirtland. The Prophet and Sidney Rigdon were forced to flee from the city because of threats against their lives. A meeting of the disgruntled Church members convened in the temple, at which Joseph Smith was attacked as a fallen prophet. Brother Taylor went to this meeting and said: "Whence do we get our intelligence, and knowledge of the laws, ordinances, and doctrines of the kingdom of God. Who understood even the LESSON DEPARTMENT first principles of the doctrines of Christ? Who in the Christian world taught them? If we, with our learning and intelligence, could not find out the first principles... How can we find out the mysteries of the kingdom? It was Joseph Smith, under the Almighty, who developed the first principles, and to him we must look for further instructions."
This fearless defense of his beloved Prophet was characteristic of the esteem in which he held him. LOYALTY AT THE MARTYRDOM.
When the Governor of Illinois commenced to press the mobocratic charges against Joseph Smith and other Church leaders, in 1844, John Taylor and Dr.
Bernhisel went to Carthage, June 21, to see Governor Ford in defense of the Prophet. Later, June 25, when Joseph and Hyrum went to Carthage and voluntarily placed themselves in custody of the Governor, John Taylor and Willard Richards were requested by the Prophet to accompany them?which they did. The afternoon of the tragic day was a warm, sultry one. The Prophet, Hyrum, Willard Richards and John Taylor were in a room on the second floor of Carthage jail. The Prophet had a foreboding of his doom and feared for the safety of the two apostles who voluntarily had entered the jail and remained with him. He urged them to go, that they might be spared the fate that awaited him.
This they both refused to do, stating that they had come because they desired to do so, and that they would remain and would willingly be killed in his stead if it would save him from death. Elder Taylor, whose love for the Prophet made him desire to see that 707 his life was preserved no matter what the method of preservation might be, then proposed that he should leave immediately for Nauvoo, get sufficient of the brethren, and return to forcibly release the imprisoned Church leaders.
Joseph refused to assent to this plan. The Prophet then requested Brother Taylor to sing the hymn "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief." The pleasing voice of Brother Taylor and the expression of pure Christian service embodied in the verses of the song cheered the soul of the Prophet as he saw life's close drawing near. The story of the Martyrdom is too well known to repeat here.
Suffice it to say that when the attack began it was John Taylor who seized a heavy walking stick and with it parried the guns of the murderous attackers as they were thrust into the room and fired.
Fighting valiantly in this fashion, in an attempt to shield the Prophet from harm, four musket balls entered his body, some of which remained imbedded in his body throughout the forty-three years he was yet to live. LABORS IN THE QUORUM OF THE TWELVE.
Indefatigable as a preacher of the Restored Gospel, John Taylor spent much of his life in missionary service.
During the Nauvoo period, he founded and edited the Nauvoo Neighbor and edited the Times and Seasons. He opened the missionary work in Ireland, France, and Germany, publishing periodicals and supervising the translation of the Book of Mormon into the French and German languages. He also founded, published, and edited a newspaper, The Mormon, in New York, from 1855 to 1857.
During the Utah period, he traveled 708 extensively throughout the settlements, organizing the wards and stakes of the Church.
Many times he was a member of the territorial legislature, and in 1877, as a reward for his interest in and encouragement of education, he was elected Territorial Superintendent of Schools. LITERARY ACTIVITIES. He wrote one of the most penetrating expositions of the mission of Jesus Christ that the latter-day Church has produced. It is entitled Mediation and Atonement.
While on his French-German mission, he wrote his theological masterpiece, The Government of God. At the time of his death, he left an unfinished Book of Mormon drama. Poetically, he was also gifted. The hymns, "The Seer," "Go Ye Messengers of Glory," and "The Glorious Plan" were from his pen. AS PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH. At the death of Brigham Young, in 1877, John Taylor was president of the Quorum of the Twelve. From 1877 to 1880, he directed the Apostolic Presidency; and from 1880 to 1887, he served as President of the Church.
This was a trying decade, filled with a severe anti-polygamy crusade and vexatious political troubles. But these hindrances could not dim the vision of the responsibility which rested upon his shoulders, which the Prophet Joseph had impressed upon his mind. In addition to conducting the local affairs of the Church, he directed the opening of the Mexican and Maori (New Zealand) missions, inaugurated the Arizona, Colorado and Nevada settlements of the Saints, determined upon the Mexican colonization venture, and sent missionaries to the Indians of Idaho,  
Wyoming, New Mexico and Arizona. Noteworthy, also, is the fact that on October 13, 1882, he received a revelation calling Heber J. Grant to the Quorum of the Twelve?the first person born in Utah to be called to the Apostleship. It was during President Taylor's administrative period that the Golden Jubilee of the Church was celebrated. In addition to the General Church contributions for the economic welfare of the Saints?cancellation of debts due the Perpetual Emigration Fund Company, overdue tithes, distribution of cattle and sheep to the poor and needy?the Relief Society was called upon to make a noteworthy contribution in the Jubilee year. The drought of 1879 had caused a scarcity of seed-wheat in the valleys of the mountains. President Taylor suggested that the Relief Society sisters release their 34,761 bushels of stored wheat as a loan to the farmers, to be repaid without interest at the ensuing harvest. This wheat had been accumulating over a period of years, to be used in a time of scarcity. It was now needed, and the sisters voted to place it at the disposal of the farmers. INFLUENCE OF JOSEPH SMITH UPON JOHN TAYLOR. John Taylor was by nature a courageous man, talented, a leader and a lover of liberty. He was broadminded, a man of faith, generous and a true gentleman. When he joined the Mormon movement, he became convinced that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God. So firm was this conversion that he never argued about it?it had become a matter of absolute knowledge to him. He then consecrated his life to service LESSON DEPARTMENT in the Church and labored for its welfare the remainder of his days. All that he did throughout his life was actuated by the teachings and ideals of the Prophet. It was the Prophet's teachings that had given direction and purpose to the characteristics and capacities inherent in him, and he never ceased to acknowledge his debt of gratitude to Joseph Smith. His hymn, "The Seer", indicates this devotion and attachment. There was heartfelt sincerity when he wrote, "A father he was and is to me." Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. What is there about the words of "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief" that made such a powerful appeal to the Prophet during the trying hours before his death? 2. What do the titles of President Taylor's most important writings?The Government of God and Mediation and Atonement?reveal concerning his thoughts and feelings? 3. President Taylor once wrote: "I would not be a slave to God! I'd be His servant, friend, His son. I'd go at His behest, but I would not be His slave." What does this statement reveal concerning his character?