[Vol27 | October 1940 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Fertility Mabel Jones]
FERTILITY 
Mabel  Jones 
Just  as  the  branch  that  bears  good  fruit 
Draws  strength  from  roots  in  deep  rich  sod. 
So  I  my  sustenance  recruit 
From  firm  and  living  faith  in  God. 
For  he  who  has  no  touch  with  Him, 
Who  thinks  to  walk  his  way  alone. 
Just  like  the  severed  withered  limb 
Is  parched  and  barren  and  unknown.

The  Church  Grain  Elevator 
Tells  Its  Story 
Dt.  Royal  L.  Garff 
MY  home  is  now  in  Chicago. 
Ten  years  ago  I  left  Salt  Lake 
City  to  pursue  a  program  of 
study  at  a  great  mid-western  univer- 
sity. I  have  a  deep  love  for  my  home 
state  and  its  people,  and  my  visits 
to  Utah  have  been  as  frequent  as 
possible.  Two  years  had  elapsed 
since  my  last  trip,  however,  so  I  made 
it  a  point  to  spend  my  brief  vacation 
there  this  summer. 
Whenever  I  go  West,  there  is  one 
friend  I  never  fail  to  see.  He  was 
bishop  of  my  ward  when  I  left  on  a 
mission  to  New  Zealand.  To  help 
me  make  ready  for  this  great  experi- 
ence, he  taught,  encouraged,  and  in- 
spired me.  He  kept  in  touch  with 
me  during  my  college  career,  seeks 
me  out  whenever  I  come  home  to 
visit  the  folks.  He  is  now  associated 
with  the  men  and  women  who  are 
the  forces  in  the  rapidly  expanding 
Church  welfare  plan. 
I  speak  of  him  and  me  by  way  of 
introduction  to  this  story,  to  show 
how  his  friendly  interest  enabled  me 
to  behold  a  great  manifestation  of 
how  a  Church,  guided  by  inspired 
leaders,  can  apply  true  religious  prin- 
ciples to  the  solution  of  man's  ma- 
terial problems.  As  I  was  conducted 
through  the  various  projects,  I  was 
given  a  candid-camera  picture  of  the 
welfare  center  with  its  remarkable 
new  Administration  Building,  can- 
ning and  sewing  facilities,  hog  farm, 
poultry  project,  root  cellar  (to  men- 
tion but  a  few),  and  the  wonderful 
new  grain  elevator,  with  its  capacity 
of  318,000  bushels.    I  was  lifted  up 
with  pride  over  the  achievements  of 
my  Church. 
As  I  was  shown  the  grain  elevator 
and  told  the  story  of  its  construction, 
it  seemed  to  me  that  it  symbolized 
the  life  of  a  good  man.  So  real  was 
this  analogy  that  the  elevator  might 
have  been  a  growing,  living  thing. 
It  had  become  great  through  the  ap- 
plication of  definite,  inexorable  laws 
—just  as  you  and  I  can  grow  fine 
through  obedience  to  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel. 
Buildings  and  men  are  both  inse- 
cure without  good  foundations. 
When  it  was  discovered  that  the  site 
for  the  elevator  was  on  an  old  lake 
bottom,  a  forty-foot  pile  was  driven 
into  the  ground  in  search  of  hardpan. 
The  first  and  then  a  second  pile  of 
the  same  length  failed  to  reach  such 
an  objective.  Finally,  an  idea  was  hit 
upon  that  would  make  the  elevator 
like  a  ship  afloat,  giving  it  absolute 
security  against  earthquake,  the  flexi- 
bility to  withstand  any  shock.  Six 
hundred  twenty-six  pilings,  forty  feet 
long,  were  driven  into  that  old  lake 
bottom,  covered  over  with  a  layer 
of  coarse  gravel  one  foot  deep,  tied 
together  with  steel  reinforcing,  and 
finally  secured  with  a  three-foot  slab 
of  cement  atop  the  entire  foundation 
structure.  Here  were  intelligence, 
knowledge,  faith,  and  works— all  em- 
ployed in  preparing  a  sound  begin- 
ning for  the  super-structure. 
In  this  same  way,  every  faithful 
Latter-day  Saint  must  drive  the  pil- 
ings of  his  life  into  fundamental 
principles,  securing  himself  against
