[Vol27 | October 1940 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Salt Elevator]
West Seventh South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. At the services, which were held at noon, on the platform of the elevator many of the General Authorities, members of the General Board of the Relief Society and the General Church Welfare Committee sat facing carloads of wheat, which were later emptied into the huge compartments of the elevator when President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Broke the seal on the first carload of wheat. Thus did golden grain share the spotlight on this memorable occasion with the new steel and concrete structure that will hold 318,000 bushels of grain "which could be held as a great reservoir against emergency."
The Church built the elevator, using ninety per cent welfare labor. The Relief Society contributed the funds from their Relief Society Wheat Fund, for the purchase of wheat which will be known as Relief Society wheat and will be stored in the elevator.
Several hundred people stood with bowed heads as President David O. McKay offered the stirring dedicatory prayer. Some in the audience were the workers who had labored on the new structure. Many in the group were Relief Society officers and members, and these women noted with satisfaction and pleasure the reference to the Relief Society when President McKay said:
"We are grateful for that spirit which has prompted the organization of the Relief Society, from those early days until the present, to render service to the needy, to comfort the sick and the afflicted, to give blessings to those who are downcast and sorrowful, and whose heartstrings are strained in the presence of death. Truly, Heavenly Father, these our sisters, members of the Relief Society, thy handmaidens, have set an example not only to the Church, but to the entire world in thus losing themselves for the good of others, in sacrificing their own comforts and denying themselves of necessities, if necessary, to bless and bring solace and comfort to those less blessed than they.
"We are grateful that when the time came that the government needed wheat for those who were suffering, who were hungry, the spir-
