[Vol27 | October 1940 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Petition Stanton]
Quotations are used by permission of the publishers, Dodd, Mead and Company. PETITION Gertrude Perry Stanton There is so much that I would ask of Thee, My Father, when the evening shadows fall— So many dear.
Ones to remember, all Of whom I plead for long and tenderly. So much forgiveness for my unbelief, So many duties I have failed to see; The oft-neglected opportunity, Sufferers for whom I pray for swift relief. I should lose faith, and by despair be driven As blindly down my path I seem to grope, Were it not for that blessed word of hope Within Thy word—'"Ask, and it shall be given!" _So in Thy strength I journey day by day, And when night comes, I still may dare to pray, The Sunny Side of the Hill Lella Marler Hoggan No. 5 A Little Shelf of Books Dora Marler Williams: "There is no greater magic in the world than the printed book. Few of us realize how much the course and pattern of our lives are shaped by books." Gove Hambidge. IN primitive times the home served as a shelter from stress and storms and as a safeguard against wild animals and intruders generally.
Most of a person's time and energy were required to provide himself and his dependents with the bare necessities of life, and little time was left for the pursuit of occupations that would lead to culture and progress.
With the passing of the years, however, man's ingenious effort has brought to the world comforts and blessings far beyond the imagination of those living in that earlier period.
Among the many discoveries and inventions that have revolutionized the world, one of the most important and far-reaching is the invention of Time To Live, by Gove Hambidge.
Used by permission of the publishers, McGraw Hill Book Co., New York. Printing.
Today books are considered one of the essentials of progressive living.
Whether the home be a palatial mansion or an unpretentious little cottage, few possessions can come into it that will bring as much joy as a little shelf of books.
Such a shelf of books is an "'open sesame" to life. It is not something that can be purchased outright in the market place, as one might buy a piece of furniture.
Like truth and beauty and friendship, it doesn't come to its possessor all at once. It grows with the years.
From year to year, as our horizon enlarges, we come to a fuller realization of truth, and we gather into our magic shelf the precious expressions of our philosophy of life. We seldom find these treasured volumes in uniform size and binding, all set in 696 a straight row. No, they often display a somewhat motley appearance.
Leaning against a substantial book of profound wisdom may be found the tenderest, whimsical love story. And nestled close beside it, one may see chubby little books of philosophy or tales of laughter; while near at hand is a slender volume of silver, singing poetry. Out of the wisdom of the years they come—souvenirs of anniversaties, tokens of remembrance, priceless hallowed volumes; just a little world of truth and beauty, of love and laughter, of wisdom and_ romance, that many times may hold one to a realization of his highest hopes. A home without a shelf of books is like a house without windows, a life without hope. It is like a traveler in a strange land groping his way along darkened alleys with no guide posts or lights to direct his stumbling feet: BOOks help to pattern our lives.
They are essential to intellectual growth and spiritual development.
They carry with them the wisdom of the ages; they beautify the soul.
They bring courage, comfort, and peace in hours of turmoil and trial. For sheer enjoyment and wholesome delight, there is no expenditure of time that pays such rich dividends as that spent with books.
Each person interprets life differently. The stories, the poems, the essays that clarify and emphasize our own philosophy hold us in their magic power.
These are the books that call to us from the ends of the earth.
These are the treasures that sooner or later find us, and bring to us the joy and uplift, the peace and satisfaction  for which we are forever searching.
When we gather these treasures together within the confines of a small space, we are creating for ourselves a cozy corner of comfort, a little haven of rest, a quiet altar of prayer. In other rooms or in other parts of the same room, may be books of general interest, but let this one little shelf be an expression of your personality, your highest ideals, the inmost desires of your soul.
Into this shelf gather all of your choicest books, that their spiritual beauty may shine out like a beacon to guide and direct you through all of the devious ways of life. You can commune with.
Such books as you would with a true friend, for do they not represent your highest hopes and aspirations? Do they not express the eternal truths that call to you out of the dawn, out of the darkness, out of the years? In times of stress you can find refuge here.
These stores of wisdom will help you to reach sane conclusions in the consideration of the problems that confront you.
When torn with indecision you may go to your little shelf of books as you would go to your little room of prayer.
