[Vol27 | October 1940 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Appreciation Bailey]
——APPRECIATION Alice Morrey Bailey I thank the kind planning that gave me my birth In a faith and a land that allows me to meet The most exalted of men on the earth— The prophet of God as I walk in the street, In Time of Harvest Beatrice Knowlton Ekman THE light buckboard, drawn by two spirited horses, moved smoothly over the desert road. The clip-clop of their hoofs made a hollow sound like going over a bridge. A brackish stream of clear, sparkling water ran across the road or beneath it at frequent distances. It looked good enough to drink, but Clem said the water was full of mineral and sulphur. He showed Janet how it stained the rocks over which it ran. The hollow sound, he explained, was due to the subterranean nature of the country. "We are probably passing over springs and streams of underground water," he said.
They had been married only a few days and were on their way to Clem's ranch, where he and his mother had lived for all of Clem's life—the place where they would make their home. The desert road stretched ahead' to disappear in the distance over the south ridge.
Janet had lived in the city all her life, and this, her first view of the desert, gave her a strange impression, deepened the worry in her dark eyes.
Sagebrush and greasewood reached to the south and west in endless gray, and close to the road on the east a sparse growth of cedar trees etched the slopes of the hills.
Whirlwinds of dust and leaves spiralled beside them. Jack-rabbits with long pointed ears sprang up out of the brush and leaped across the road ahead of them. Blue, April sky and white clouds gave a feeling of quiet. The outlines of the range loomed ahead, and Clem slowed the horses to a walk. "There it is!" he sang out, "there's our place!"
Janet felt no elation, only a strange loneliness. The distances of the desert made the bare trees and gray outlines look drab and isolated, but she managed a smile for Clem. How would she fit into this new life? How would she and Clem's mother, in the same house all the time, react? If they wore on each other's nerves, it would be quite tertible.
Speaking of his mother, Clem had said, "She's been mother and father to us.
When father died he left her with three children under nine years—myself and two sisters. She never gave up for a minute. She's a wonder, Janet, you'll love her." But Janet was not so sure. Her own life had been very easy and free. She had no recollection of her father. He had been dead only a year when her mother remarried. She thought of her mother married to Steve.
After all, this ought to be a happier life than she had known with them. She snuggled up to Clem, and he put his arm around her and smiled down into her eyes with a question in his own.
They came to the pole fences of the ranch.
Soon they would reach the house. It was almost dark and the buildings looked indistinct and ghostly in the shadows.
Clem gave her the lines while he opened the big gate that shut in the ranch from the desert. A white fence separated the house and garden from the outer ranch, and soon Clem stopped before the garden gate and lifted Janet down, IN TIME OF HARVEST He held her close. "I want you to love it so," he said wistfully. A slim, graceful woman came out of the shadows. Her face was strong and firm, like Clem's.
Janet met her with shy uncertainty.
Clem held them both together in his arms, and his voice was husky when he spoke.
