[Vol27 | October 1940 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: MissionWho Shall Take Place]
Highlights  in  Kitchen  Planning 
Lalene  H.  Hart 
DURING  the  past  century,  in- 
dustry has  taken  over  one  af- 
ter another  of  the  productive 
and  creative  tasks  which  used  to 
be  performed  in  the  home.  Al- 
though many  of  these  traditional 
tasks  have  gone  forever,  so  long  as 
three  meals  per  day  (not  including 
the  extras)  must  be  prepared  in  the 
kitchen  for  three  hundred  and  sixty- 
five  days  each  year,  the  kitchen  still 
remains,  in  many  ways,  the  most 
important  room  in  the  house.  As 
such,  it  should  reflect  the  logical 
thinking  and  planning  of  the  home- 
maker  and  her  family. 
There  is  evidence  on  every  hand 
that  kitchens  are  being  planned  to 
meet  family  needs,  and  to  allow  a 
maximum  of  work  to  be  done  with  a 
minimum  expenditure  of  energy, 
time,  and  money.  Even  so,  there 
are  still  many  drab  and  uninviting 
so-called  workshops,  where  women 
become  sordid  and  discouraged  and 
young  people  learn  to  dislike  the 
many  interesting  and  beautiful 
things  in  family  life.  To  plan  for 
the  efficient  workshop,  at  least  two 
things  are  necessary:  first,  there  must 
be  a  clear  idea  of  all  the  routine  jobs 
to  be  done  in  the  kitchen  in  the 
order  in  which  they  are  most  likely 
to  come;  second,  there  must  be 
wise  choosing  and  placing  of  needed 
equipment.  The  kitchen  has  manv 
things  in  it  that  are  used  everyday. 
To  avoid  unnecessary  handling,  all 
these  require  orderly  and  convenient 
arrangement.  Kitchens  cannot  be 
so  standardized  as  to  make  one  size 
suitable  for  all  families.  The  small 
one  is  generally  more  convenient 
than  a  large  one.     The  exact  size 
should  be  determined  by  the  number 
of  activities  to  be  carried  on,  the  size 
of  larger  pieces  of  equipment  and, 
to  some  extent,  the  kind  of  fuel 
used.  The  chief  work  in  most  kitch- 
ens is  that  of  food  preparation,  serv- 
ing, and  clearing  up.  This  usually 
requires  from  one  hundred  to  one 
hundred  and  twenty  square  feet. 
Sometimes,  however,  the  kitchen 
must  be  used  as  a  dining  room  or  a 
laundry;  then,  more  space  is  re- 
quired. Even  so,  efficient  arrange- 
ment is  possible  in  a  large,  general- 
purpose  kitchen  if  work  centers  are 
planned  for  various  activities.  The 
other  extreme  is  the  kitchenette  in 
which  every  inch  of  space  must  be 
utilized  several  times.  The  large-size 
kitchen,  which  requires  six  to  ten 
times  more  steps  than  is  necessary  in 
the  preparation  of  a  meal,  could  well 
be  remodeled  or  rearranged,  and  the 
same  area  made  useful  for  other 
household  conveniences.  Full-depth 
or  partial  partitions  may  be  utilized 
to  separate  such  activities  as  eating 
or  laundry  work  from  food-prepara- 
tion centers.  Ideally,  the  kitchen 
should  be  built  around  the  necessary 
equipment.  Floor  space,  windows, 
doors  and  other  stationary  features 
can  then  be  planned  to  the  best 
advantage,  and  centers  for  various 
kinds  of  work  can  be  so  placed  that 
the  space  needed  for  one  will  not  be 
cluttered  by  the  equipment  of  an- 
other. The  rectangular  or  "U"  shape, 
eight  to  ten  feet  in  width,  is  prac- 
tical and  lends  itself  to  the  best  ar- 
rangement for  the  work  to  be  done. 
npHE  modern  kitchen  must  allow 
for  at  least  five  major  functions:

CONVENIENT  KITCHEN  ARRANGEMENT 
(Larger  pieces  of  kitchen  equipment,  such  as  refrigerator,  sink  and  stove,  with  connecting 
counterboards  or  tables  and  cabinets,  are  arranged  within  easy  reach  of  one  another  and 
so  that  activities  may  proceed  in  regular  order  from  right  to  left.) 
storage  of  food  and  utensils,  prepara- 
tion of  food,  cooking,  serving,  and 
clearing  up  after  meals.  This  neces- 
sitates development  of  at  least  three 
areas  of  activity:  first,  the  receiving, 
storing,  and  preparation  area;  second, 
the  cooking  and  serving  area;  third, 
the  area  for  clearing  away,  cleaning 
up,  and  disposing  of  garbage.  In 
recent  years,  another  area,  which 
makes  for  efficiency,  has  been  creat- 
ed to  care  for  planning  and  business 
activities. 
The  tendency  now  is  to  locate  the 
kitchen  away,  from  the  living  quar- 
ters in  order  to  remove  the  odors 
and  noise  of  food  preparation 
and  to  avoid  any  interference 
in  this  utility  room.  However, 
there  should  be  easy  access  to  the 
front  and  back  doors  (without  pass- 
ing through  other  rooms),  to  the 
dining  room,  to  the  telephone,  to 
the  stairs,  and  to  the  basement.  Two 
doors  are  all  any  convenient  kitchen 
needs,  and  these  should  be  placed  to 
eliminate  traffic  lanes.  Adequate 
ventilation  in  all  weather  and  good 
lighting  at  all  work  centers,  at  night 
as  well  as  day,  may  influence  its  lo- 
cation. 
The  choice  of  finishes  for  floors, 
walls,  and  woodwork,  should  be  dur- 
able, suitable  in  color,  and  easily 
cleaned.  Furnishings  should  be  se- 
lected to  fit  needs,  suit  the  walls 
and  floor  space,  and  should  pay  for 
themselves  in  usefulness. 
The  method  of  giving  a  particular 
worker  the  job  best  fitted  to  him  is 
not  easily  applied  to  the  homemaker, 
for  she  must  do  all  kinds  of  work;

678 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER,   1940 
but  planning  and  grouping  of  equip- 
ment to  save  steps  and  unnecessary 
motions  will  speed  up  her  work  and 
save  much  wasted  energy.  The  plac- 
ing of  the  larger  pieces  of  equipment, 
such  as  stove,  sink  and  refrigerator, 
with  connecting  counterboards  or 
tables  and  cabinets,  can  be  done  in 
such  a  way  that  the  activities  may 
proceed  in  regular  order  and  within 
easy  reach  of  one  another.  The  re- 
frigerator and  receiving  table  are  best 
placed  near  the  service  door  and  at 
the  right  end  of  the  room  if  the  "U" 
shaped  plan  is  used.  Next,  the  sink 
and  the  stove  are  placed  at  the  left 
end,  nearest  the  dining  room.  Studies 
prove  that  fewest  steps  and  motions 
are  made  in  food  preparation  when 
work  proceeds  from  right  to  left. 
Perishable  food  is  taken  from  the 
refrigerator  to  the  preparation  coun- 
ter which  is  located  near  a  sink  with 
running  water  and  surrounded  by 
cabinets,  where  all  frequently  used 
staples  and  utensils  are  conveniently 
kept.  At  this  point,  the  food  is  pre- 
pared, taken  to  the  stove,  cooked, 
and  then  served.  Retracing  of  steps 
is  practically  eliminated  if  this  rou- 
tine is  followed.  No  kitchen,  how- 
ever poor,  is  so  outdated  that  it  will 
not  lend  itself,  more  or  less,  to  a 
similar  arrangement.  In  some  homes, 
the  work  may  have  to  proceed  in  the 
opposite  direction,  from  left  to  right. 
Even  so,  the  step  retracing  may  be 
greatly  reduced  by  good  arrangement. 
In  the  cleaning-up  or  dishwashing 
center,  the  right  to  left  method  con- 
serves both  time  and  energy.  Dishes 
are  scraped,  and  all  of  one  kind  are 
neatly  stacked  together  at  the  right 
of  the  sink.  They  are  washed,  drain- 
ed or  dried  at  the  left  of  the  sink 
and  placed  in  convenient  cupboards 
in  close  proximity  to  the  drain  coun- 
ter, stove,  and  serving  table.  To 
either  right  or  left  of  the  sink,  and 
accessable  without  stooping,  should 
be  found  a  drawer  containing  plenty 
of  clean  towels  and  cloths.  Dish- 
washing is  one  of  the  many  thrills 
of  housekeeping  when  there  is  plen- 
ty of  hot  water,  good  soap,  and  ab- 
sorbent, but  not  linty,  towels.  The 
result  is  clean,  sparkling,  sanitary 
dishes  that  are  a  joy  to  use.  A  storage 
shelf  or  a  door  rack  at  the  sink  holds 
soap,  cleaning  preparations,  polishes, 
a  roll  of  soft  paper,  dish  scraper,  and 
brushes.  In  the  ventilated  cupboard 
space  beneath  the  sink  may  be  placed 
pullrods  for  drying  towels,  and  hooks 
for  dish  pan  and  drain  rack.  The 
sink  of  today  is  compact  and  effi- 
cient, with  doors  for  ventilation  set 
back  six  or  eight  inches  to  provide 
knee  space  where  the  worker  sits. 
The  back  is  lower  and  the  basin 
deeper  to  eliminate  splashing.  The 
swivel  type  faucet  is  placed  higher 
to  prevent  dish  breaking  and  to  make 
vessel  filling  easier.  A  spray  is  valu- 
able for  dish  rinsing  and  vegetable 
cleaning. 
npHE  pros  and  cons  of  built-in  or 
movable  equipment  should  be 
weighed  carefully  and  prices  com- 
pared. There  are  many  devices  on 
the  market  which  bring  cabinets  to 
their  maximum  efficiency.  The  sizes 
of  cabinets  will  vary  according  to  the 
needs,  but  the  fundamental  princi- 
ples of  construction  are  the  same. 
Whether  it  be  stove,  sink,  or  storage 
cabinet,  at  least  four  -to  six  inches 
toe  space  should  be  provided  at  its 
base.  Besides  giving  comfort  to  the 
worker,  this  prevents  marring  and 
denting  of  the  surface  finishes.  Plain, 
sturdy,  well-built  types,  which  ex- 
clude   molding,    decorative  panels.

HIGHLIGHTS  IN   KITCHEN   PLANNING 
679 
and  other  dust  catchers,  are  most 
desirable  and  economical. 
How  well  the  homemaker  feels  at 
the  close  of  an  ordinary  busy  day 
may  be  attributed  to  the  height  of 
the  working  centers.  She  will  find 
that  different  activities  are  more 
easily  performed  at  variable  heights. 
To  avoid  aches  and  pains  that  come 
from  stretching,  stooping,  and  reach- 
ing, the  working  surfaces  should  be 
of  the  right  height.  No  surface 
should  be  so  high  that  stretching  of 
arms  or  shoulders  is  necessary,  or  so 
low  as  to  cause  stooping.  The  old 
idea  that  the  sink  and  table  should 
be  a  standard  height,  no  matter  how 
short  or  tall  the  person  using  them, 
has  long  been  discarded.  If  for  any 
reason  the  proper  height  cannot  be 
had,  various  devices  may  be  em- 
ployed to  adjust  these  surfaces  for 
comfortable  usage.  A  sturdy  step- 
up  for  surfaces  that  are  too  high,  or 
a  slatted  rack  for  a  sink  that  is  too 
low  will  be  handy. 
Sometimes  too  much  space  is 
wasted  between  upper  and  lower 
cabinets.  From  twelve  to  sixteen 
inches  is  ample  for  even  tall  equip- 
ment. Where  cupboards  are  over  the 
sink,  the  space  needs  to  be  increased; 
and  open  shelves  may  be  more  con- 
venient than  doors,  especially  if  they 
are  more  than  fourteen  or  sixteen 
inches  in  width.  Lengthwise  or  cross- 
wise partitions  between  widely  sep- 
arated shelves  or  deep  drawers  will 
give  more  storage  space  and  keep 
utensils  of  the  same  kind  grouped 
together.  An  extra  shelf  on  four  legs, 
or  a  graduated,  stair-like  shelf  will 
serve  the  same  purpose.  Adjustable 
trays,  shelves,  or  racks  of  wood, 
metal,  or  rubber  may  be  used,  and 
are  easily  removed  when  cabinets  are 
cleaned.      Convenient  grouping  of 
needed  utensils  at  the  work  centers, 
with  everything  visible  and  reached 
without  moving  other  articles,  not 
only  saves  time  and  effort  but  pre- 
serves and  lengthens  the  life  of  the 
equipment. 
The  finish  of  the  counter  or  table 
tops  is  important.  From  the  stand- 
point of  cost  and  protection  to  dish- 
es, hard,  well-seasoned  wood  is  rec- 
ommended. Linoleum  is  medium  in 
cost  and  is  durable  if  firmly  set  with 
water-proof  cement  and  edged  with 
metal  molding  that  fits  tightly.  Hot 
kettles  and  fruit  stains  may  damage 
the  surface  unless  care  is  taken.  Vari- 
ous types  of  composition  and  glazed 
tiling,  some  of  which  are  non-resist- 
ant to  acids  and  stains,  are  also  used. 
Stainless  steel  and  monel  metal  are 
more  expensive  and  may  not  be 
wholly  resistant  to  stains.  No  matter 
what  the  finish  may  be,  care  and 
common  sense  in  usage  will  deter- 
mine its  feasibility. 
In  the  workshop,  the  time  ele- 
ment should  also  be  considered.  In 
comparatively  few  households  will 
regular  time  tables  be  found,  but  it 
is  important  that  a  definite  time  be 
set  aside  for  a  particular  operation, 
and  that  this  operation  be  carried 
out  at  the  allotted  time  and  within 
definite  time  limits.  It  is  the  simplest 
and  commonest  habit  to  be  extreme- 
ly busy  in  doing  one  thing  after  an- 
other without  an  organized  plan  and, 
consequently,  to  accomplish  very  lit- 
tle. However,  one  should  not  be 
so  bound  to  a  system  that  it  cannot 
be  laid  aside  if  more  important 
things  arise. 
Wise  planning  takes  hard  work 
out  of  daily  tasks,  utilizes  the  in- 
come to  greater  advantage,  and  gives 
hopeful  and  optimistic  attitudes  to 
the  homemaker.    It  also  makes  pos-

680  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER,  1940 
sible  better  family  health  and  higher  is  the  kitchen  clock,  and  surely  it  is 
standards  of  living.    A  place  to  do  of  enough  importance  to  be  given  a 
this  planning  may  be  most  conven-  prominent  place  where  it  can  be  seen 
ient  in  the  kitchen.    A  small  table  and  heard  easily.    A  small  portable 
or  writing  surface,  with  drawers  or  radio  may  not  be  necessary,  but  it 
pigeonholes  for  storing  things  vital  ^^ill  give  the  worker  an  opportunity 
to  household    business    operations,  ^^  ^lear  the  news  of  the  day  while 
and  a  comfortable  chair  will  meet  ^^.      ^^^^  ^      .^^  ^^^^ 
requirements.     Last,  but  not  least. 
ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
Courtney  E.  Cottam 
Some  folks  are  proud  of  the  funniest  things, 
And  nurture  their  gifts  until  they  sprout  wings; 
They  labor  to  polish  them  to  their  perfection, 
And  never  a  flaw  can  one  find  on  inspection. 
Minnie  is  proud  of  her  grudge-holding  power — 
She  airs  it  quite  tenderly,  hour  by  hour; 
And  though  she  has  nothing  of  peace  and  contentment, 
She  has  a  large  portion  of  bitter  resentment. 
Katie  is  proud  of  the  edge  on  her  tongue. 
And  many  a  heart  with  her  meanness  is  wrung; 
Although  no  one  loves  her,  nor  calls  her  a  friend. 
She's  so  proud  of  her  art  she  will  never  unbend. 
May  always  imparts  the  truth  to  her  neighbors. 
But  the  truths  that  she  tells  are  more  deadly  than  sabers; 
She  self-righteously  rings  every  vanity's  knell. 
When  a  pat  on  the  back  would  serve  twice  as  well. 
Etta's  charities  are  like  leaves  in  the  fall, 
They  blow  on  the  breezes  and  cover  us  all; 
And  the  wind  that  blows  them  is  never  lagging — 
It's  made  by  this  person's  incessant  bragging. 
I  know  it  is  right  to  pen  this  ditty. 
As  I  view  their  foibles  with  tenderest  pity; 
And  while  of  their  failings  I  loudly  shout. 
It's  tqo  rnuch  bother  to  straighten  them  out!