[Vol27 | October 1940 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Why Go To Relief Sloan]

That organization is the Relief Society.
That you who do not know it may also drink at its fountains, may I tell you why you should go to Relief Society? A resume of what Relief Society is and what is gained by attending it is the best answer to this question. It is the key to abundant living, a training school to help cope with life's problems, an opportunity for self-expression, service and growth.
Here the beauty and dignity of the experience of advancing years mingles with the keen enthusiasms and modern viewpoints of youth.
Sharing ideas with these women of varying ages enriches life, broadens viewpoints, increases faith, and enlarges understanding. The organization offers carefully outlined courses of study, including religion, social service, work-and-business (health and nutrition), literature and music. The course in religion is a challenge to mental and spiritual exertion, offering increased knowledge, added testimony, and the privilege of bearing that testimony.
Social service trains in the psychology of personal adjustment, aids in harmonious living with our- 690 selves, families, and neighbors. Work-and-business affords instruction in beautifying the home through decorative art, safeguarding health through proper nutrition, aiding the welfare plan, and serving in national emergencies.
Literature enables us to live with authors, to savor the seasoned wisdom of the classics, to enrich our lives through biographies. We are encouraged to write prose and poetry, create pageants, and participate actively in all creative fields.
Music affords training in conducting, playing the organ and piano, and the proper singing of our hymns and classical music.
That it instills in us a deep appreciation of music is best understood when we can truly say that the chorus of our Singing Mothers echoes around the world. As further outlets of expression, we may be called to serve as visiting teachers, crossing the thresholds of  homes, sharing Gospel messages and lending aid to those in need. In the development of initiative and leadership, we have many and varied projects with which we may ally ourselves; for example, community garden work or active participation in the Church welfare program, where we may assist in the food-preparation and sewing centers, or in the care of the sick. In fact, the field of personal endeavor is almost unlimited. As a crowning glory, we have a unique social opportunity. We play, sing, work and pray together, welding ties of lasting friendship based on deep understanding of each other. The application of these aids to our lives is a gift of wisdom that will open the gate to beautiful living. Do you think that I have found what I was seeking? I will answer you as the Savior answered John and Andrew: "COME AND SEE".