[Vol27 | July 1940 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Vacations That Re-Create]
has  been  noted,  the  story  is  psycho- 
logical in  its  implications;  that  is,  the 
struggles  are  within  the  minds  and 
souls  of  the  characters.  There  are  no 
villains,  and  no  perfect  characters. 
Arthur  is  not  all  bad;  on  the  contrary, 
he  is,  like  the  characters  in  the  old 
Greek  dramas,  essentially  noble  but 
with  a  weakness  which  results  in 
tragedy.  That  weakness  brings  suffer- 
ing and  shame  to  himself  and  others. 
We  should  be  able  to  make  some 
use  in  our  lives  of  the  emotional  re- 
sponses we  give  to  this  story.  The 
ancient  Greeks  believed  that  the  pity 
one  felt  when  he  beheld  suffering  in 
a  play  and  the  fear  with  which  he 
viewed  tragic  consequences  of  mis- 
takes, were  saving  influences.  At  least 
our  pity  for  Hetty,  our  sympathy  for 
Adam  and  his  brother,  Seth,  who 
loves  Dinah  Morris  in  vain,  our  ad- 
miration for  Dinah — each  such  emo- 
tional response  has  some  bearing 
upon  our  attitudes  and  reactions  to 
situations  in  actual  life  as  they  con- 
front us.  We  see  what  makes  these 
people  the  kind  of  persons  they  are. 
We  can  understand  what  they  did 
because  we  are  shown  their  motives, 
their  environments.  Such  a  study 
lielps  us  to  a  better  understanding  of

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
493 
people  around  us— even  of  ourselves. 
This  has  been  but  a  brief  discus- 
sion of  a  few  phases  of  Adam  Bede. 
The  next  two  lessons  will  consider 
the  setting  and  the  characters  with 
particular  emphasis  upon  the  intel- 
lectual and  ethical  values  we  should 
be  able  to  gather  from  these  elements 
of  the  novel. 
Teaching  Helps 
(Assign  before  the  lesson  is  discussed. ) 
1.  Give  a  sketch  of  the  life  of  George 
Eliot,  emphasizing  particularly  her  literary 
contributions. 
2.  Give  a  list  of  other  novels  by  George 
Eliot,  indicating  briefly  the  nature  of  each. 
3.  Give  by  narration  and  reading  (after 
the  lesson  has-been   presented)    some   of 
the  highlights  of  the  story;  such  as: 
a.  Part  of  Chapter  IV,  "Home  and  Its 
Sorrows."  (Tell  the  first  part  of  the  chapter; 
then  read  from  the  point  where  the  author 
says,  "The  coffin  was  soon  propped  on  the 
tall  shoulders  of  the  two  brothers"  to  the 
end  of  the  chapter.) 
b.  Chapter  XXVII,  "The  Crisis."  (Tell 
the  first  part  and  read  from  "What  do 
you  mean,  Adam?"  to  the  end  of  the 
chapter. ) 
c.  Chapter  XLV,  "In  the  Prison."  (Tell 
the  first  part  and  read  from  "Dinah," 
Hetty  sobbed,  "I  will  tell — I  won't  hide 
it  any  more."  to  the  end  of  the  chapter.) 
Social  Service 
EDUCATION  FOR  FAMILY  LIFE 
Lesson  I 
The  Influence  of  Religion  in  the  Home 
(Tuesday,  October  29) 
THE  CRADLE  OF  CIVILIZA- 
TION. The  family  is  the  basic  unit 
of  society.  No  nation  is  greater  than 
its  homes,  no  society  stronger  than 
the  ties  of  kinship  and  common  in- 
terest that  integrate  the  members  of 
the  family.  Since  the  most  impor- 
tant period  in  a  person's  life  is  the 
plastic  years  of  infancy,  when  the 
mother  has  such  a  great  influence 
on  the  child,  the  parents  should  take 
advantage  of  every  opportunity 
which  the  fireside  affords  in  the 
important  mission  of  character 
training. 
Dr.  Henry  Van  Dyke  declared, 
"If  the  old-fashioned  American  fam- 
ily life  vanishes,  nothing  can  take 
its  place."  Character,  like  charity, 
certainlv  begins  at  home. 
The  school,  the  church,  and  all 
their  agencies  of  instruction  and  re- 
form, are  inferior  to  the  home  as  in- 
stitutions of  moral  and  religious 
training.  President  J.  Reuben  Clark, 
Jr.,  has  said  of  the  strategic  position 
the  home  occupies  as  an  institution 
of  character  development: 
Again  I  say,  not  out  of  the  school,  nor 
the  concert  hall,  nor  the  theatre,  not 
out  of  the  stadium,  nor  the  movie,  nor 
the  radio,  not  even  out  of  the  church 
itself  by  itself,  nor  out  of  all  of  them  to- 
gether, shall  come  the  mutual  respect  for 
the  rights  of  others,  the  restraining  of 
will  and  selfishness,  the  due  obedience  to 
proper  authority,  the  forbearance,  the  de- 
votion to  duty,  the  poorness  of  spirit,  the 
repentance  for  sin,  the  meekness,  the 
hunger  and  thirst  for  righteousness,  the 
mercy,  the  pureness  of  heart,  the  peace- 
making, the  honesty,  the  sterling  integrity,

494 
RELIEF   SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY,    1940 
the  charity,  the  love,  the  reverence,  that 
shall  make  the  citizenry  of  free  nations 
and  the  subjects  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 
All  these  must  come  mostly  from  the 
home;  they  will  fully  come  from  nowhere 
else.  To  be  certain  and  sure  of  their  ef- 
fects, they  must  be  engendered  in  the 
forefathers  of  those  who  would  enjoy 
them." 
Professor  Marie  Leonard,  Dean  of 
Women,  University  of  Illinois,  has 
written  of  this  subject: 
The  spiritual  interpretation  of  Ufe,  love 
and  God  must  come  from  the  home  and 
parents  where,  by  every  word  and  deed. 
Christian  principles  of  honor,  integrity,  the 
fine  rights  of  others,  the  protection  that 
comes  from  law  enforcement,  and  honor- 
able dealings  with  all  men  are  indelibly  im- 
pressed on  the  growing,  impressionable 
minds  of  our  children.^ 
PARENTAL  RESPONSIBIL- 
ITY. To  Latter-day  Saint  parents 
the  Lord  has  said  that  if  they  are 
delinquent  in  teaching  the  Gospel 
to  their  children  the  sins  of  those 
neglected  ones  will  be  "upon  the 
heads  of  the  parents."  Parents  are 
partners  with  God  in  the  merciful 
mission  of  bringing  salvation  and 
happiness  to  others. 
Most  Latter-day  Saint  parents 
have  been  workers  in  some  of  the 
auxiliary  organizations  of  the 
Church,  many  have  been  on  mis- 
sions, while  almost  all  of  them  are 
in  a  position  to  give  religious  in- 
struction to  their  children  and  to
