[Vol27 | July 1940 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Secretary-Treasurer]
TbiM. FROM  THE  FIELD 
Vera  White  Pohlman,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
Wherever  the  name  does  not  readily  indicate  the  geographical  location  of  the  stake 
or  mission,  the  location  of  its  headquarters  is  designated  in  parentheses. 
Regulations  governing  the  submittal  of  material  for  "Notes  from  the  Field"  appear 
in  the  Magazine  for  April,  1940,  page  275. 
Special  Activities  Sponsored  o^  Stake  [Relief  Societies 
North  Weber  Stake  (Ogden,  Utah) 
npHE  work-and-business  depart- 
ment of  the  North  Weber  Stake 
sponsored  a  twelve-week  course  in 
sewing  in  1939,  with  the  laudable  ob- 
jectives of  training  homemakers  and 
aiding  the  Church  welfare  program 
by  providing  gainful  occupation  for 
women  needing  work. 
The  sewing  school  was  held  at  the 
Ogden  regional  storehouse  and  at- 
tended regularly  by  representatives 
from  all  the  fourteen  wards  of  the 
stake.    At   the   conclusion    of   the 
course,  these  representatives  gave  the 
instruction  to  Relief  Society  mem- 
bers in  their  respective  wards.  Here 
expert  instruction  was  given  in  sew- 
ing for  family  needs.  The  simplest 
stitches  were  studied  first,  followed 
later  by  a  course  in  dressmaking  and 
tailored  finishes.  Remaking  of  chil- 
dren's clothing  was  one  of  the 
specialties  of  this  school.  Neat 
in  appearance  and  reflecting  the 
latest  trends  in  style,  these  articles 
ranged  from  tiny  undies  to  fine  coats 
and    suits    to    delight    their    little 
INSTRUCTORS  AT  SEWING  PROJECT,  NORTH  WEBER  STAKE 
Left  to  right,  Loretta  Wright,  Mary  Wright,  Jessie  Snarr

■^w^^m^    ■'  ■'■ 
FLOWER  EXHIBIT,   SALINA   EIRST   WARD,   NORTH   SEVIER   STAKE 
wearers.  Instructors  at  the  sewing 
project  are  shown  in  the  accompany- 
ing picture  which  was  taken  at  a 
stake  bazaar  and  handiwork  exhibit 
held  in  May,  1939.  On  this  occasion, 
a  sale  of  home-baked  foods  and  ar- 
ticles of  sewing  netted  the  associa- 
tion more  than  $100. 
Julia  E.  Parry,  who  was  president 
of  North  Weber  Stake  Relief  So- 
ciety at  the  time  of  this  exhibit  and 
bazaar,  later  resigned,  and  Nellie  W. 
Neal  was  appointed  president  on 
September  30,  1939. 
North  Sevier  Stake  (Salina,  Utah) 
npHE  Relief  Society  of  North  Se- 
vier Stake,  of  which  Melissa  M. 
Crane  is  president,  sponsors  an  an- 
nual flower  festival  which  has  proved 
to  be  one  of  its  most  interesting  ac- 
tivities. Not  only  do  the  women  of 
the  various  wards  in  the  stake  strive 
to  beautify  their  homes  and  gardens 
with  lovely  flowers  during  the  sum- 
mer months,  but  through  careful 
selection  and  a  study  of  plant  life, 
they  try  to  cultivate  plants  of  a  su- 
perior type,  and  to  add  new  va- 
rieties. Artistic  arrangement  is  also 
one  of  their  objectives. 
In  1939,  the  flower  festival  was 
held  in  each  ward  in  connection 
with  the  annual  ward  Relief  Society 
conference— a  combination  which 
added  interest  to  both  activities. 
The  flowers  were  brought  to  the 
ward  chapel  on  the  morning  of  the 
conference  Sunday,  where  they  were 
arranged  by  the  women,  and  re- 
mained on  display  throughout  the 
day.  The  accompanying  picture  is  of 
the  1939  display  of  the  Salina  First 
Ward. 
Star  VaJIey  Stake  (Afton,  Wyo.) 
AS  early  as  February,  1940,  Lucille 
Call,  secretary,  vvnrotc  that  the