[Vol26 | October 1939 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Social ServicePsychology Pressure]
Social Service Lesson 4
Psychology of Resisting Sales Pressure
I. WHAT DOES A PURCHASE CONSIST OF PSYCHOLOGICALLY?
While there can be no hard and fast definition of the steps in a purchase, we find that a formula which shows roughly the stages through which a purchase progresses is helpful in understanding the mental processes involved in buying. The purchaser, in whom our interest centers in this lesson, may better fortify himself against sales pressure by understanding something of the methods of selling. E. K. Strong, of Stanford Graduate School of Business, has given us the following formula of a purchase: (1) A want must be felt by the buyer; (2) a commodity which is considered adequate to satisfy the
714 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
want is thought of; (3) a trade name of some particular commodity or store is then thought of; (4) a purchase is made, after which (5) satisfaction or dissatisfaction is experienced. If the purchase is carried through and satisfaction is found, the process is likely to be repeated the next time a similar want is felt. With further repetition a habit of buying then becomes established. A salesman aims to point out to us, or to arouse within us, wants of which we might not have been fully aware before. He also suggests his commodity as the best way to satisfy the want. The aim of far-sighted salesmen is to make a customer, not merely to make a sale. He, therefore, arouses in us pleasant feelings in connection with his commodity and its trade name in order to make us more likely to buy the same thing again when we again feel the same want. To do this he often tactfully flatters us on our good judgment and reminds us of the satisfaction of using his article. A store will do the same through surrounding the article with pleasant impressions and through courteous treatment during and following the purchase. If so-called "high pressure" sales tactics are used on customers, a sale may be made but not a customer, because too often the buyers are not satisfied and because they experience too much unpleasantness to repeat the transaction. Tosdale defines "high pressure" salesmanship as follows: "The meaning of the term is not particularly clear, but usually it is taken to mean that the salesman dominates the buyer and compels him 'willy-nilly' to sign on the dotted line. Such tactics, often used in selling specialties when the salesman is not aiming to build up a repeat business, include resorting to subterfuges and tricks to get access to the prospective buyer, rushing of decisions, and forcing of purchases by the sheer force of talk and personality. The salesman is usually working under a strain; he depends more upon talk and impulses aroused to bring orders than he does upon any attempt to ascertain and satisfy the wants of the particular buyer." (Tosdale, H. R., Principles of Personal Selling, p. 242. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1925. Quoted by Strong, E. K., Psychological Aspects of Business, p. 347.)
II. SOME DEVICES USED TO INFLUENCE OUR DISCRIMINATION IN BUYING.
Modern competition in business has perfected many competing articles up to near the same standard of quality. Toothpastes, for example, contain in most cases essentially the same sort of compounds. They may differ in taste, smell, color, and texture; but these differences are greater than the differences in their cleansing power. We are, therefore, often led to buy one or the other because of some rather superficial characteristic. Salesmanship and advertising lead us to think of differences in products whether the differences are important or not. There are certain tricks by which articles are made to appear larger or better, which we should fully realize if we are to use good judgment in buying. For example, articles packed in bright colors look larger than those in subdued colors. Experiments have also shown that cans
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 715
with a certain proportion between their width and height look larger than others with different proportions. For articles packed in glass containers the proportion most favorable to size illusion is used; and in addition, the glass is made to magnify the appearance of the contents, i.e. green and stuffed olives. A more direct way to give an erroneous impression of size is to pack a small quantity in a large container, as is done with many candy bars in order to attract the "large eyes" of hungry boys and girls. The color, shape, and "feel" of an article has considerable influence over our ability to discriminate its value. The successful merchant has his customers feel the goods in order to make a deeper impression. The more senses through which we are impressed with an article, the stronger is the impression made.
III. HOW A PLEASANT FEELING TONE IS CREATED.
In the section in which we discussed the steps in a purchase, we saw that the arousal of pleasant feelings is essential, not only to bring about the sale in the first place, but in order to lead us to come back again when we feel another need. Many clever devices are used for creating pleasant feeling tone. A pleasing package goes a long way toward selling an article. This is particularly true with most cosmetics. Daintily, well proportioned, delightfully colored bottles and boxes create a pleasant feeling toward the article they contain, and our ability to discriminate actual quality is influenced by this impression. These devices for creating pleasant feeling tone are especially important in influencing our buying when we have no established habits of asking for trade-named articles. The arrangement on shelves so as to enhance the attractiveness of the packages is also important. The radio in recent years has done much toward arousing pleasant feelings by enjoyable music, humor, and other entertaining features. These feelings are carefully associated in our minds with the trade name of the articles so that when we enter a store and are in doubt about what to buy, this trade name is likely to be pleasantly aroused. The very sound of the trade name itself is carefully planned to create pleasant feelings, and pleasant names are perhaps more easily remembered. Pleasant clerks or salesmen play a most important part in creating the right feeling tone toward a store or product. Repeat orders often result simply from a pleasant remembrance of the clerk, and when only small differences in the actual quality of similar articles exists, the previous impression made by the salesman becomes the deciding factor between making only one sale or making a customer.
IV. A FEW DEVICES USED BY SALESMEN IN INFLUENCING CUSTOMERS.
In making a sale, a salesman must first of all make contact with you. In stores, this is simple because you come to the counter with a want in mind; but salesmen who must rustle their own prospects have the task of getting to talk to you. This is difficult because when they come you are usually busy with something else and are annoyed at their coming. To start with, then, you have un-
716 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
