THE SEX.
	MADAME Anna Bishops is singing in Ore-
gon.
	MINNIE Hauck, the American prima
donna in Vienna, is a New Orleans girl.
	MRS. George Lewis, Rockway, N. Y.,
rowed out in a boat in the breakers on
Thursday last, and rescued a boy from
drowning whose boat had capsized.
	THE ladies of Portage Grange, at School-
craft Mich., have instituted a Dress Reform
and hereafter will not follow Dame Fashion,
but have a fashion each of her own—one
that will be more consistent with their
purse and couducive of better health.
	THE Bedford (Pa,) Gazette says that
"there are in Pennsylvania 150 Post-mis-
tresses. It has been common for many years
to appoint women to that position, and they
are always efficient officers. We believe not
one has ever proved a defaulter to the gov-
ernment."
	THE Princess Margaretta is greatly be-
loved in Rome for her many and tender
charities. She is very beautiful, and it is
said that her presence has an influence on
the populace possessed by no one else. When
any disturbance threatens they send for her.
Her age is twenty-four.
	OF Mrs. M'Mahon, wife of the President
of France, Lucy Hooper gives the following
description: "She is short, stout, and un-
stylish-looking and in her dress of dark
blue silk, with tunic and sleeveless corsage
of open worked black silk, a hat wreathed
with pale pink roses, and a bouquet of pink
roses in her hand, looked like the house-
keeper of some aristocratic family abroad in
her best clothes.
	MISS Josie Burnett and Miss Mabel
Weiss, two Boston girls, rowed a very in-
teresting match against time at the Isle of
Shoals. The course was from Star Island to
Appledore, distance over mile, to be done
within fifteen minutes. They accomplished
the feat in eleven minutes, and won the
wager. The bet was with a gentleman, for
two gentlemen's drab soft hats, against one
chip-straw lady's hat trimmed with flowers.
	THE Philadelphia ladies claim the honor
of opening the first sea-side resort for poor
women that has been established. It is sit-
uated at Asbury Park, about six miles from
Long Branch, N. J. The dwelling stands
in a fine grove. Board for the season is
fixed at $3 per week. The institution is an
aid, instituted for the assistance of deserv-
ing women. A prominent citizen of Phila-
delphia gave the ladies a check for $5000,
and the home is entirely paid for.
	MISS Alexandrine D'Egroff of Wizentry,
Novogorod, (a province of Russia), has tak-
en up her temporary residence in Ann Arbor,
Mich., with a view to graduation in the
Medical Department of the University.
She has already attended lectures in St.
Petersburg and Paris, but being a woman,
could not get a diploma by completing her
medical education in either city. She speaks
French fluently—the language with which
she holds intercourse with the "Western
barbarians," and is fast acquiring English
under the instructions of Miss Sarah D.
Hamlin, a recent University graduate.
	WE are exceedingly grieved to learn by
the newspapers that Mrs. Celia Burleigh,
widely known as a speaker, and writer in
the WOMAN'S JOURNAL, and widow of the
late William H. Burleigh, the Connecticut
poet, has recently gone to the City Hospi-
tal in Rochester, N. Y., probably to spend
her last weeks, she being far advanced in
consumption. She has, it is stated, neither
a home nor near relatives. Her last touch-
ing article, entitled "Life on a Stretcher,"
will be remembered by our readers.—Wo-
man's Journal.


