PEN AND SCISSORS.

	ST. LOUIS calls its great bridge "the buckle 
of the nations iron belt."
	WHEN does a man feel girlish? When
he makes his maiden speech.
	IF, "one half of the world don't know
how the other half live" —is it any of their 
business.
	A GRAPESHOT, probably fired during the
Revolution, was found the other day in the
heart of a tree twenty inches in diameter,
in Vermont, near the spot where an old
fort stood. 
	TO deny women the elective franchise be-
cause they cannot bear arms would not be
one whit more unreasonable than to deny
men the ballot because they cannot bear
children. —Grand Rapids evening Post.
	HOSTILE INDIANS are reported to have
been seen on the line of the Union Pacific
Railroad, at or near North Platte, Neb.
Horses, in that vicinity have misterously
disappeared and one man was found dead
with a bullet hole in his back.
	MRS. CYNTHIA Leonard of Chicago heads
an organization of women known as the 
"Good Samaritans," whose object is to aid
struggling women and prevent as far as pos-
sible their falling into vice. Success attend
their worth understakings.
	A CURIOUS literary work has been under-
taken by an English gentleman, under a 
commission from the trustees of the British
Museum. It is a reproduction of the title
page of every book entered at Stationers'
Hall, London, since the beginning of the
reign of Henry the Eighth.
	THE Inaugural Meeting of the Driving
Park Association, was marked by the great-
est trotting event ever known. On the sec-
ond day, Aug. 12, Goldsmith Maid trotted a
mile squarely in 2.14¾, the fastest time on
record. This is a wonderful performance
and eclipses the Maid's previous efforts—
while Bonner's celebrated Dexter, and all
other fast trotters are thrown completely in
the shade.
	AT the Free Training School for Women
in New York, a class is to be organized for
ladies who will be charged a nominal fee,
and they will be instructed in the art of
judicious purchase of provisions and house-
hold goods. In the free cooking class, just
inaugurated, girls will be taught scientific
other teachers. By-and-bye it is the inten-
tion to open a restaurant in the building, by
which the institution may be made self-
supporting. 
	INTELLECT OF WOMEN.—The Dean of
Chester recently made a speech in which he
quoted the opinion of the examiner of Lat-
in at the collegiate schools to the effect that,
comparing the girls with the boys who had
been studying during the same time, he
would give a verdict decidedly in favor of
the girls. The tendency of modern inquiry
is to show conclusively that the long accep-
ted theory that sex affect the mind, and
that men are inherently more intellectual
than women, is erroneous. when we give
women the same opportunities in modern
society that we give men, in the way of
industry and education, what is called the
Woman Question will settle itself." —N.Y.
Herald.
	RUDIMENTS OF HORSE BREAKING.—Miss
Middy Morgan is good authority on training
colds, and this is the way she puts it: The
secret of success in breaking young horses
is to commence early, to give frequent,
short lessons, to repeat each lesson until it
is comprehended, and never to attempt to 
teach two or more lessons at one time. De-
cide which you want to do, then perfect the
animal in one or the other, and the first les-
son having been acquired, the second will 
be attained without trouble. The routine
of horse-breaking, as practiced in the Brit-
ish Isles, is, first make the horse mouth's
and give him a good carriage. This is ef-
fected by using a heavy, smooth mouthing
snaffle, buckling the lower reins to the side
of his roller, and then permitting the pupil
to remain loose in a roomy box stall, where
he can move about and play with his bit.
This will effect more in a shorter time than
any other method. As soon as the colt's 
mouth has become fine, but not till then, he
may be mounted. As carrying a weight on
his back is quite new to the young horse, care
should be had not to permit him to travel fast-
er than a walk until his action has become easy
and free from nervousness. Even then, for
many weeks, he should not be allowed to do
more than trot gently on level ground, and
never be galloped unless on springy turf.
Too deep a soil causes a horse to labor, if
frequently galloped on such his action be-
comes higher and less rapid than it other-
wise would have been.


