	 BY BLANCH BEECHWOOD.

	One would think that with all the advan-
tages for improvement which are so univer-
sally afforded in our day, we ought to pro-
duce a superior class of young ladies. And
yet it is impossible to avoid noticing that
intellectuality and originality are rare; that
a certain style of imitation, (always of course,
the latest and most thoroughly fashionable
style) is adopted by the whole set. Man-
ners, conversation and appearance, all savor
of idleness and vapid frivolity.
	There is a new invasion over-runing the
world, selfish, slangy, loud and boisterous;
what would our prim, staid, quiet and un-
obtrusive, puritan grandmothers have
thought of them? all these accomplish-
ments are superficial and not for use but for
show. They stretch themselves far beyond
their limits; and laugh a great deal at old-
fashioned notions and ways, term them out
of date, out of style, and not adapted to the
age etc. but have they any new ideas of
their own to replace them or suggestions to
offer, except perhaps, a few quotations from
some modern fashionable writer of light
literature or the opinions of some presiding
genius of "polite society." They sneer a
little about religion and ridicule those who 
are really earnest and sincere or seeking
true methods of improvement; in fact they
like to be thought a little wicked, and no
doubt they are so, for:
		"Satan finds some mischief still
		For idle hands to do,"
even in this advanced age.
	They feel disgusted with their home and
its surroundings, and have an utter con-
tempt for real life and everything domestic;
they "are dying to go to San Francisco, or
New York," or some place more stylish and
more expensive; they wonder papa ever re-
fuses them money; and simply because they
are not forced to earn their bread, they seem
to feel there is no particular reason why they
should do anything. A little tatting to
show off their white, delicate hands elabor-
ately ornamented with rings or some highly 
sensational novel, serves their purpose for
employment; the only enthusiasm they ever
manifest is for parties or amusements of
that nature; they patronize the theatre, not
for what they can learn there of  lessons
of life but because it is fashionable; they
coquette and flirt with the beaux of their
"set," see and are seen, and the only thing 
they remember distinctly is the description
of the star actress' wardrobe. Their minds
become dissipated and are not capable of
concentration, there is no depth to them,
no substance which is really solid. They
experience a sort of mortification, if com-
pelled to walk a block with a relative or
friend under-dressed, dowdyish or country-
fied (as they term it) and feel as if an apol-
ogy were necessary, should they chance,
meantime, to meet one of their fashionable
acquaintances; with them style is upper-
most, and money, the one thing needful to
maintain it. Their fathers may grow gray,
fail in health, droop in spirits, under the bur-
den of their idleness and extravagance;
they see it not nor will they attribute it
to themselves, yet are they wholly guilt-
less? They are persistently blind to every-
thing save their own wants, and sacrifice
every true feeling of womanhood to this
idolatry of style. They are themselves
slaves and aim to draw the chains of bon-
dage so tightly around father and mother,
as to warp and distort all their purposes and
efforts for emancipation. The ambition of
their life is to pass "muster in society" and 
secure a rich husband; and to accomplish
this, all around them must succomb. Theirs
is the rule, they assume undue airs, they
award no courtesy, are even impertinent
and insolent to those older than themselves;
inexperience and ignorance bear the sway.
And after their bloom and youth has passed,
what resource have they to draw upon, in 
the dusty chambers of their brains?
	I do not think that this is in any measure
overstated, but there are some noble excep-
tions to this general and absolute influence;
and where there is an unconstrained, natu-
ral young lady, whose whole soul is not
wrapt up in fashion, dress and style; who
has independence of character enough to
think for herself; who is not feverishly impa-
tient with a desire to know who her future
husband will be and whether his wealth will
be immence; who is contented with her
lot and cheerful, joyous and happy in the
home provided for her by tender and loving
parents; people wonder why she is not like
the rest. She is sought after and studied,
and those who love truth, reality and mod-
esty fly to her as a rescue from the artificial,
stereotyped young ladies of their acquain-
tance.
	Is grace, kindness, self-forgetfulness and
true delicacy of behavior to vanish before
the caprices, vageries, frivolities and noth-
ingness of fashionable society, if these
things are its essence? Can we only regret
this state of things, and look with fear and
dismay upon such girls as the mothers of
the future race of men? for wherever woman
falls short of perfection, man is, in conse-
quence, similarly affected. Is not this some-
thing beneath the standard of excellence in
womanhood, and as mothers shall we yield
to this prevailing influence, or shall we
turn to our covenants and to our mission
upon the earth, rescue ourselves from the
dull lethargy into which we have fallen and
set to work vigorously, with solidity of
character, firmness of mind, and all con-
scious womanly dignity counteract this per-
nicious influence and crush the continued
strokes of this unreflecting and absolute
power?
	S. L. City, Sept. 9th, 1874.


