	     MISSION OF SCIENCE.

	But a hundred years ago, light burst forth
upon the earth in relation to the elements
of which it is composed. From that time
it has engaged the attention of scientists to
verify or prove the truth of those principles
then brought to light, principles that have
changed the belief of men relating to the
entire material world. Since then there
have been less important discoveries made
which are the consequences of the preceed-
ing discoveries. Not fifty years ago, like
startling and momentous intelligence came
forth concerning elements that are also eter-
nal, respecting the great moral world in
which we live, move and have our being;
and, as a parallel to the movements in the
physical or natural world men are now veri-
fying the truth of these great principles
then brought to light.
	There is spiritual as well as physical
science, the mission of each is to enable
men to know correctly; to know by research
conducted understandingly and systemat-
ically. In different departments of truth
the modes of investigation may differ be-
cause the conditions may not be alike. To
apply rules correctly is of the utmost im-
portance; natural things are estimated by
natural laws. By not attending to these
conditions the great tendency of natural
science in our day has been to produce
doubt and unbelief in relation to things
spiritual. Men cannot believe there are
methods by which to ascertain and be satis-
fied, say, for instance concerning the exist-
ence of a God, which is a very common
thing for men to doubt. But they do not
want to believe. Now this is not science;
science seeks for information because it
wants it and accepts it when found, even if
not what was expected.
	The truth is, intelligence comes to those
who seek it honestly and earnestly, both in
natural and spiritual things. With the ad-
vent of truth in our days, it has been made
known, among other things, "The time has
come that it shall be unto men, even accord-
ing to their faith." The spirit of that dec-
laration by the Prophet Joseph is that those
who want to believe there are no other than
the natural forces to account for these crea-
tions can do so; while those who seek for
information by the proper methods can
know concerning Him, who "made heaven,
and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of
waters." And it will be known thoroughly,
surely; it will be seen, too, that the same
harmony that exists in the natural sciences,
exist in the spiritual; and to prove that har-
mony between both is the true Mission of
Science.
				
					[For the EXPONENT.
	THE TELEPHONE.—An instrument of this
name, was invented by Reis as early as 1861;
in a late paper, a new instrument for the
transmission of sounds is noticed as the in-
vention of Mr. Elisha Gray, of Chicago.
Wonderful things are told about it but themode of transmission of sound is not ex-
plained. It appears that a violin may be
played on the "receiving wire" of the in-
strument and operations at the distance of
two thousand, four hundred miles produce
sounds on the violin; and tunes—"Hail!
Columbia" and others—were performed on
the instrument by Mr. Gray. "Knowledge
shall be increased," this is the destiny of the
age we live in. If only half of what has been
stated, be true who knows but that at our
next Grand Jubilee in our Tabernacle Mr. 
Gray may perform on it while quietly seat-
ed in Chicago.


