HOME AFFAIRS.
	
	THE DAILY Ogden "Junction" has entered
its third year. May success continue to fol-
low in its course.
	THE MEMBERS of the fire brigade had an ex-
cursion to Provo lately, and gave the people
of that city the opportunity of beholding them
in torchlight procession.
	A MONTHLY meeting of the Superintendents
and teachers of Sunday Schools will be held
during the October Conference, and it is re-
quested that each county in the Territory be
represented.
	WE THOUGHT to have given our readers
some account of the "Tooele Imbroglio," the
name now given to the contested election in
Tooele county. As the case is doubtless "to be
continued" we may refer to it again.
	BY PRIVATE letter from Cache, we learn that
sickness prevails to a great extent there, es-
pecially among the children. During the past
summer, deaths have been very numerous in
some localities in that county.
	ACCORDING TO sexton Taylor's account the
death rates for the month of September this
year are less than those of the same month in
any other year since he has held the office of
City Sexton. Better less than greater.
	THE DESERET Agricultural Society has de-
cided to hold a stock fair at the Agricultural
Park on the 20th and 21st instants. There will al-
so be races at the same place both days. This is
all we hear about a "Territorial Fair" this sea-
son.
	THE "MILLENIAL STAR" of September 8th
has this: "Information wanted. Margaret
Lee, of Christie's Buildings, Manchester, wish-
es to know the whereabouts of Alice Christie,
late of Manchester, and who emigrated to
Utah in 1861; her sister Mary Barlow is anxious
to hear from her."
	JOHN C. GRAHAM the favorite Salt Lake actor
recently returned home from England where
he has been laboring as a missionary, chiefly
at the "Millennial Star" office, Liverpool. He
is announced to play at the Theatre by request,
on Saturday evening, October 3rd. He will
doubtless be warmly greeted by a good house.
	A SELECT Party will be given by the ladies
of the Relief Society at the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, on Friday October 2nd. The
Committee, Mesdames M. I. Horne, J. C.
Richardson, W. East, E. S. Taylor, S. H. Wil-
kinson and A. Cummings are efficient ladies
and we doubt not, will make this, the first
party of the season, a success. We wish all
who may participate a pleasant evening, and
acknowledge a complimentary.
	WORK ON the Utah Western Railroad is be-
ing manfully carried forward, and the belief is
entertained that by the 1st of November cars
will run on this line as far west as Clinton's,
from this City. The people of this Territory be-
gin to realize the benefits accruing from the in-
troduction of railroads into the country, and the
event of a railroad being designed and made in
Utah, is a source of satisfaction to all who take
an interest in her welfare and prosperity.
	SUNDAY SCHOOL Superintendent, Mr. George
Goddard, reports that after all expenses con-
nected with the Mammoth Jubilee, lately
held in the New Tabernacle, were paid, $500.00
net profit remained in the treasury of the Sun-
day School Union. It may be concluded from
this that such undertakings as the Juvenile
Jubilee are paying ones. And truly they
should be, for no system deserves encourege-
ment more than that which is for the proper ad-
vancement and development of youth.
	THE BEAVER "Enterprise" of Sept. 22nd,
has an account of a little boy four years old,
named George Lish, being lost among the hills
at North Star. It appears that his father had
dispatched him on an errand of no great dis-
tance, but as hills intervened, hiding the cabin
from his sight, the little fellow lost his way and
wandered for nearly two days and a night
among the hills. Twenty-five men were en-
gaged in the search for him, and after the
greater part of the second day had passed he was
found almost perishing with fatigue, hunger
and thirst. Be careful parents, don't send your
precious little charges on missions of too great
importance for their age or experience.
	IT SEEMS that fishing this season has become
a mania with some people in these parts; but
whether they fish for want of food or for want
of other employment is a question. The other
day two gentlemen, pleasure seekers doubtless,
in this city, were seen to stop at a little pool
made from a stream—designed for irrigating a
meadow but too low at the time—alight from
the buggy in which they rode, move noiselessly
towards the stream so not to frighten away the
fish, and carefully insert their fish-hooks in
the water. Another gentleman, one of more
experience probably than the "fishermen,"
told them as he passed along, that they would
likely stand a better chance for catching some-
thing in the next stream. They moved on
hopefully and – we didn't learn the result of
their day's exploits.
	SEVERAL SERIOUS accidents occasioned by
teams taking fright and running away have re-
cently occurred in this City. Among the most
lamentable may be chronicled an event which
took place on the 23rd ult. in which a young
man was so severely hurt that he died soon
after, a gentleman and lady were both badly
bruised, a carriage broken in pieces and the
horses badly if not fatally wounded. The
young man named Brunker, was driving the
team, the gentleman and lady, Mr. and Mrs.
Jas. Woodruff were returning home from the
burial of their infant child at the time of the
accident. One of Mrs. Woodruff's hands was
bruised so that the doctors think she will lose
one of her fingers. On the Friday following
this accident another runaway was the occa-
sion of Mrs. White—wife of Mr. White the
banker—being thrown from a carriage and very
dangerously hurt but it is believed not mor-
tally injured.


NOT ALL LOST. —A bankrupt merchant
returning home one night said to his wife:
	"My dear, I am ruined; everything we
have is in the hands of the sheriff!"
	After a few moments of silence, the wife
looked into his face and said;
	"Will the sheriff sell you?"
	"Oh, no."
	"Will the sheriff sell me?"
	"Oh, no."
	"Will the sheriff sell the children?"
	"Oh, no."
	"Then do not say we have lost every-
thing. All that is most valuable remains to
us—manhood, womanhood, childhood. We
have lost but the results of our skill and in-
dustry. We can make another fortune if
our hearts and hands are left us!"


