HOUSEHOLD. HINTS.

	Preserving Eggs.—It is stated that in Germany
they pack eggs with the small end down, in dry
ashes, and find no trouble in keeping them.
	To Clean Paint.—Smear it over with whiting,
mixed to the consistency of common paste in warm
water. Rub the surface to be cleaned briskly,
and wash off with pure cold water. Grease spots
will, in this way, be instantly removed, as well as
other marks, and the paint will retain its beauty
and brilliancy unimpaired. 
	To Kill Flies.—It it said by one who has tried
it that a strong tea of quassia sweetened with mo-
lasses will kill flies, and has the advantage of not
being a deadly poison. It is said, too, that horses
washed with a tea of quassia will not be tormented
by flies. It can be bought at any drug store, and
is worth trying if it will abate the fly nuisance.
	Russian Cream.—One quart of milk, three eggs,
one cup of sugar, half package Cox's gelatin, va-
nilla or lemon flavoring. Dissolve gelatin in half
pint of tepid water, bring to a warm temperature
but not scalding. Beat the yelks of the eggs and
sugar together. Bring the milk to a boil, then
add the dissolved gelatin, to eggs and sugar
and let it just come to a boiling point, but no
more, as it is too stiff. Beat the whites and re-
move the mixture from the stove, and add whites
to it, also flavoring, and pour into moulds. This
requires to stand longer than wine jelly. If wan-
ted for dinner make the day before. Eat with
cream if you like.
	Cheap Vinegar.—Take a quantity of common
Irish potatoes, wash them until they are thoroughly
clean, place them in a large vessel and boil them
until done. Drain off carefully the water that they
were cooked in, straining it, if necessary, in order
to remove every particle of potato. Then put this
potato water in a jug or keg, which set near the
stove, or in some place where it will be kept warm,
and add one pound of sugar to about two and one-
half gallons of the water, some hop yeast, or a
small portion of whisky. Let it stand three or 
four weeks, and you will have excellent vinegar,
at a cost of six or seven cents per gallon; and is
said to be the only vinegar that will preserve cu-
cumbers cut fresh from the vines without the aid
of salt.
	Keeping Meals Waiting.—Little things interfere
with our comfort very much, and one small annoy-
ance is for men to delay coming to dinner when
called. Sometimes they have an hour or more of
work they will do before quitting and then they go
to the house to find the dinner cold, and the cook
discouraged. Nothing is more disheartening to a
tired woman than a table full of dirty dishes or-


namenting of the table an hour and a half later in the
day than usual. Punctuality is a virtue that men
should learn if they are in the habit of being un-
certain about coming to meals. Any woman wor-
thy the name of a housekeeper will be regular with
her meals if it lies in her power to have them
so.
	Cherry Pumpling.—Put cherries 3 inches deep
on the bottom of a porcelain-lined kettle. Throw
in sugar to sweeten, add half a teacup of water and
sprinkle over enough flour to slightly thicken the
juice. Roll out raised Graham biscuit crust—
shortened with cream— about an inch thick, which
spread quite over the cherries. Cover the kettle
tight, (shutting the cover in with a cloth spread
over the top if need be,) and cook steadily on the
top of the stove, taking care that it shall not burn,
three-quarters of an hour or so, until the crust is
well cooked. The same may be more safely
steamed if the conveniences are at hand. Another
way is to put the cherries into a nappie or pie
dish, cover with thick crust, and bake in the oven.


