THE FIRST-BORN.

	How many families we see stricken, like
Egypt, with the loss of the first-born! Re-
mark to the proud and happy mother that
her grade of blooming children seems un-
broken, and mark the swift change on her
expressive countenance as she answers with
a fluttering sigh, “Ah, but my first is dead.”
	By no means is this always the case—God
forbid it should be!—but it is too often so,
and leads us to wonder longingly if there
be no possibility of discovering and remov-
ing the causes of such dreadful misfortune.
	Many suppose it to be owing to the young
mother’s inexperience and consequent mis-
management of the tender unit of human-
ity in early infancy—mistakes in feeding,
washing, dressing, and hours of activity
and rest—which injure the child’s health.
Doubtless there is much truth in these con-
clusions; at least we dare not deny it while
contemplating the extremes of youth and
inexperience which are allowed to embark
in this greatest beyond comparison of hu-
man enterprises—the launching of immortal
souls for the voyage of life on the ocean of
Eternity.
	But the never failing fountain of tender-
ness which the advent of a child opens in
the mother’s soul, destroys all awkwardness,
all weariness, all heedlessncss at one lave of
its pure waters. Though this instinct can-
not quite supply the place of understanding
acquired by teaching and experience, it is
in many cases an all-sufficient substitute.
The mother’s sudden and keen realization
of boundless yet happy responsibility has
been said and sung too often to need repeti-
tion; but the great pity is that, beautiful
though it be, it should be considered a per-
fect guide: and it must be so considered,
judging from the fact that none but acci-
dental preparation is ever made before as-
suming such high and holy duties.
	However, much as I lament this fact and
condemn such practice, I do not for one mo-
ment, believe that want of proper care in
infancy is the most fruitful source of death
to the first-born. I admit that inexperience,
ignorance is the cause, but I consider the
effects of that inexperience before the day
of washing and dressing to be far more
baleful than later. Were it not so, why
should the poor washerwoman’s neglected
baby, which creeps through puddles of suds
and eats all manner of improper things, live
and thrive when others pine away under
the best of care? A worm at the root of a
tree will kill it when on its remote twigs it
would not be felt.
	There are a thousand adverse circum-
stances attending the advent of the first-born,
which come not again; and it is to a few of
these I would call the attention of mothers
—present and prospective. 
	To take things in their proper order, be-
gin with the timid, ignorant young bride
entering her new life, like a lamb into un
known pasture, knowing not what may be-
fall; or like a rare plant transplanted into
alien soil, drooping, fainting, dying for a
dewdrop of comfort, a friendly shade from
the too ardent sun of criticism. The most
delicate and sensitive organization is, under
happy conditions, best qualified to endow a
new life with proper attributes of mind and
body; but it also suffers most keenly and is
most injured by whatever is unfavorable.
	With these facts in view, imagine the
situation when, perhaps before the lamb
learns that the new abode is home, or the
plant has time to take root and rise erect,
she finds herself, and in all probability un-
willingly, approaching the throne of moth-
erhood. However welcome that throne and
crown might be a few years or even a few
months hence, she now shrinks back affrigh-
ted, knowing that she is not yet able to bear
calmly the many small, contemptible, and
yet to her, in her transition state, galling,
rankling attendant annoyances.
	She knows one of her “dear friends" will
say to another “They say the —’s are al-
ready looking for an heir!” and the response
will be “Is that true? Why, when were
they married?” Just listen to the bitter
insult scarcely veiled! her cheeks burn and
her heart beats fast over the contemplation.
She knows they count months, weeks and
days, seeking her confusion, and when she
reflects that very small causes are often
sufficient to shorten the allotted time of ex-
pectation, and that on this slender thread of
chance hangs, in some degree, her reputa-
tion, is it any wonder that her already tight-
ly tensioned nerves almost snap asunder, or
that her fancy exaggerates the evils which
seem to threaten her? Or can this condition
of overwrought anxiety fail to injure the
constitution of her helpless and passive
charge?
	I knew an expectant young mother who
overheard one who should have been her
friend, wondering if she did not suppose
herself so great an invalid that she must go
to bed every day.
	She was so shocked by the unfeeling re-
mark, so disappointed in her friend, and suf-
fered her resentment to rise so high, that
she never once suffered herself to lie down
in the daytime though she trembled with
weakness or panted with weariness. Fool-
ish! to be sure, but perfectly natural; and
who dares deny that she tasked her child’s
strength as severely as her own, and by her
foolishness lessened its power to resist child-
hood’s inevitable accidents and ailments?
Oh! do any who see the earth heaped over
the cold clay of the first-born ever ask in
secret self-examinati[-]n “Have I ever in any
such way helped to dig this grave?”
	Again, the maiden enters upon her wife
and motherhood with very eroneous ideas
of life—pictures drawn from the pages of
romance and fiction. One particular mis-
chievous sentence often found in such
places is this: “And between the devoted
pair had never passed one hasty word.”
Now this world’s children are but human,
and passing indisposition may call forth a
hasty word, while accidental misunder-
standings are apt to do so. But she, fully
imbued with the beautiful fable that love
completely eradicates, instead of only im-
proving, the inferior parts of human nature,
goes to her new life determined that her
happiness shall be unclouded because that
fatal first word shall never be spoken. Im-
agine, then, her  despair when she learns
that both she and her husband fall far short
of her fair but imaginable ideal.
	The pettish, the unkind, the even cruel
word is spoken, and she, poor unsophistica-
ted dove, thinks her life a failure and her
happiness a complete wreck. She is disap-
pointed both in herself and in her husband.
She finds him less yielding now to her rea-
sonable wishes, and less careful of her ac-
tual needs than once he was to her whims
and of her pleasures. Although she might
have found these things endurable had she
expected and prepared for them, in her ig-
norance she takes it for proof that he does
not love her, and grieves accordingly.
	She finds herself less guarded both in
words and actions than she intended to be,
loses faith in her own disposition, and broods
over her self-searching and the unlooked
for difficulties in the way of happiness until
her husband sometimes loses faith in her
also; if she discover this then her cup of 
despair is indeed full.
	I think it no wonder Cain had a sulky,
suspicious discontcd disposition! Any
daughter of Eve, hurried into motherhood
before these lessons are well learned, and all
inward tumults calmed, need not wonder
if the life-forces of her child be not well
balanced, and that, escaping death, it be
peevish and illtempered for life.
	As a remedy, all young persons, male or
female, should be thoroughly taught con-
cerning the actual, everyday, homely reali-
ties and duties of life, for when this prosy
foundation is satisfactorily laid the beauties
and poesies of life are easily added. Let
each know what he or she promises when
agreeing to mingle life with another’s, and
the trials to be met, that the husband may
not expect all the “adaptation,” the fitting
ones nature to the grooves of another’s, to
come from the wife; nor the wife expect the
husband always to go singing songs to the
moon or quoting rhymes to her eyes.
	Let the wife be her own judge concerning
her own fitness and readiness to undertake
the duties of motherhood, so lovely and so
alluring to every contented, beloved wife.
	“Last, though not least,” I would recom-
mend all third parties strictly to refrain
from meddling with the affairs of the young
matrimonial voyagers until called on for
their assistance.			L. L. D.


