			KEEPING.

	The truest of all homes are often in
houses not especially well kept, where the
comfort and happiness of the inmates, rath-
er than the preservation of the furniture,
are first consulted. The object of home is
to be the center, the point of tenderest in-
terest, the pivot on which family life turns.
The first requisite is to make it attractive,
so attractive that none of its inmates shall
care to linger outside its limits. All legiti-
mate means should be employed to this end,
and no effort spared that can contribute to
the purpose. Many houses called homes,
kept with waxy neatness by pains-taking,
anxious women, are so oppressive in their
nicety as to exclude all home-feeling from
their spotless precincts. The very name of
home is synonymous with personal freedom
and relaxation from care. But neither of these
can be felt where such a mania for eternal
cleanliness pervades the household as to
render everything else subservient thereto.
Many housewives, if they see a speck on
floor or wall, rush at it, as if it were the
seed of pestilence which must be removed
on the instant.  Their temper depends up-
on their maintenence of perfect purity and
order. If there be any failure on their
part, or any combination of circumstances
against them, they fall into a pathetic de-
spair, and can hardly be lifted out.  They
do not see that cheerfulness is more needful
at home than all the spotlessness that ever
shone. Their disposition to wage war upon
maculateness of any sort increases until
they become slaves of the broom and dust-
pan. Neatness is one thing, and a state of
perpetual house-cleaning quite another.
	Out of this grows by degrees the feeling
that certain things and appartments are too
good for daily use. Hence, chairs and sofas
are covered, and rooms shut up, save for
special occasions, when they are permitted
to reveal their violated sacredness in a man-
ner that mars every pretense of hospitality.
Nothing should be bought which is consid-
ered too fine for the fullest domestic appro-
priation. Far better is the plainest furni-
ture on which the children can climb, than
satin and damask which must be viewed
with reverence. Where anything is re-
erved or secluded, to disguise the fact is
gxtremely difficult. A chilly air wraps it
round, and the repulsion of strangeness is
experienced by the most insensible.
	There are few persons who have not vis-
ited houses where they have been introduced
to what is known as the company parlor.
They must remember how uncomfortable
they were while sitting in it; how they
found it almost impossible to be at ease,
and mainly for the reason that their host
and hostess were not themselves at ease.
The children were watched with lynx eyes,
lest they should displace or soil some-
thing; so that the entertainment of friends
became very much like a social discipline.
They must recall, too, how sweet the fresh
air seemed out-of-doors, and how they in-
wardly vowed, on leaving that temple of
form and fidgetiness, that something more
than politeness would be required to induce
them to return.—Scribner's.


THE United States Hotel, at Saratogo, is
1,400 feet in length, or more than a quar-
ter of a mile long, covering 95,000 feet of
earth, with sleeping accommodations for
1,200 guests. The entire cost is $225,000.
Thirty thousand yards of carpet are required
to cover the floors. Almost as big as the
Palace Hotel, San Francisco.


