			 LOCAL.
	The Co-operative Institution has discon-
tinued the retail dry goods business at the
Eagle Emporium store in this city, and
William Jennings has purchased their stock
......Mrs. Ann Eliza Young has been lectur-
ing in this city about Religion and the Re-
ligious system of the Mormons......Military
regulations lately made at Camp Douglas
provide that there shall be an officer of the
day at the post, and an officer of the provost
guard; there will be frequent patrols made,
and any enlisted man found without a pass
or one with a pass who in any way miscon-
ducts himself will be arrested......The Salt
Lake Theatre is illuminated by a new con-
stellation, Hoskins, Colville and Darrell......
A new pleasure boat, made to sail on Salt 
Lake and called the Sea Gull, has been built
by Mr. Thomas Whittaker of Centerville
......The street railway in this city is to be
extended eastward from the Valley House
corner to Lindsay's Gardens......The people
of Cache Valley look for another hard win-
ter and there cold weather has already com-
menced....Drunken soldiers have of late been
more than usually numerous and insolent
about town......The post office at Spring-
dale, Kane County, Utah, has been discon-
tinued......Judge McKean has ruled in fa-
vor of the city, that liquor stores shall not
be open after nine o'clock p. m.......Marcus
L. Ward, ex-Govenor of New Jersey, and
wife, lately visited this city......Fruit and
melons in great abundance have been raised
in and about the city this year......A con-
siderable quantity of the wheat crop in
Cache Valley has been destroyed by rust.
			PERSONAL.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Akers Allen—"Florence
Percy"—is on the editorial staff of the Port-
land Advertiser......Victor Emanuel is hunt-
ing in the Alpine Valleys......Mme. Janau-
schek, the celebrated tragediene is playing
in New York, and Mr. George D. Chaplin
who lately finished an engagement in this
city is to be her leading supprot for the next
season........Isadora Pratt of Massachusetts
has gained admittance to the Berlin Royal
Art Academy......Ella Rowell, of Stewart,
Iowa, has been appointed postmistress at
that place......Gov. Tabbot's chances for re-
ceiving the Republican nomination for Gov-
ernor of Massachusetts are becoming more
favorable......Mrs. F. F. Victor is publishing
a complete account of the late movement
in the cause of temperance and reform, in
a pamphlet entitled "Woman's War with
Whisky, or Crusading in Portland......Sum-
ner's death cost Masachusetts $40,000......
Miss Thompson, who lately won fame at the 
royal academy is now painting a charge at
Waterloo of French cavalry against Eng-
lish infantry......James W. Marshall who is
said to have first discovered gold in Califor-
nia, is in receipt of an allowance of one
hundred dollars per month from that State
......Mrs. Stonewall Jackson lives in Char-
lotte, North Carolina, is about thirty years
old and said to be very beautiful......James
Clark of London is translating Shakespeare
into the Spanish Language......The Empress
of Austria is called the handsomest princess
and one of the handsomest women of Eu-
rope.
			GENERAL.
	The Indians are reported to be trouble-
some on the Union Pacific Railroad line, 
near North Platte, Nebraska.........Soda
Springs, in Idaho, is fast becoming a favorite
Watering Place or Summer Resort......Sil-
ver City, Idaho, lately held a grand cele-
bration in honor of the completion of the
telegraph to that place......The Maine Uni-
versalist Convention, held on the twenty-
fifth of June last, recognized the eligibility
of women to the Christian Ministry......
Sumner's grave in Mount Auburn cemetry
has yet no stone, and a lady visiting there
lately, found it with difficulty, marked only
with a stake at the head, to which was fas-
tened a visiting card bearing the words
"Sumner's Grave"......Several English farm
laborers, thrown out of employ, have left
England for Canada under the arrangements
made by Mr. Joseph Arch with the Cana-
dian Government, taking with them their
wives and children......This year vacation
month, August, has five Sundays; it is there-
fore known as "Ministers Leap Year"......
Yeddo now publishes a Japanese "Punch"
......The feminine students at Wooster Col-
lege, Ohio, are said to equal the masculines
in both mathematics and languages......One
of the reporters of a New York paper is an
ex-English officer who once out-ranked Sir
Garnet Wolsely in his own regiment......
One hundred dollars each, has been given
by Senator Edmunds and Walter Green, to
the art Gallery of the University of Ver-
mont at Burlington......The street car com-
panies of New Orleans have adopted the
London and Paris plan, and refuse transpor-
tation to a greater number of passengers
than can be seated......A young lady of Sa-
lem Massachusetts, has run a sewing ma-
chine and payed her own expences for two
years, and she also graduated at the head of
the graduating class of the Normal School.


