FLOWERS OF THOUGHT.

	FORGIVENESS is the odor of sweet flowers
when trampled upon.

	LABOR for the other life that awaits thee,
and consider the time it must endure.

	YOU have not fulfilled every duty unless
you have fulfilled that of being pleasant.
	
	NEVER despise humble services; when
large ships run aground, little boats may
pull them off.

	GREAT power and natural gifts do not
bring privilege to the possessor so much as
they bring duties.

	BE noble, and the nobleness that lives in
other men, sleeping but never dead, will
rise in majesty to meet your own.

	If you would be pungent, be brief; for it
is with words as with sunbeams—the more
they are condensed the deeper they burn.

	THE mind has a certain vegetative pow-
er, which cannot be wholly idle. If it is
not laid out, and cultivated into a beautiful
garden, it will of itself shoot up in weeds
and flowers of a wild growth.

	NO doubt the most rational and agreeable
way of keeping up social intercourse, is to
see one's friends frequently, but in small
numbers; indeed it is an old-fashioned max-
im which directs, "for thinking, one; for
conversation, two, no more; for argument,
three; for social pleasure, five; for trouble, a
house full.

	THE cultivation of friendship should
never be neglected. It lifts us out of the
narrow sphere of "self," makes us more tol-
erant of the feelings of others, and opens a
wide field for many a good word and deed;
for what is friendship but a strong and noble
sympathy, that calls for the exercise of all
the best qualities of the human heart, and
whilst insensibly elevating our own charac-
ters, leads us to strive to add to the joys and
lessen the sorrows of others?


AMONG original wills may certainly be
reckoned that of Daniel Martinett, an offi-
cer in the East India Company's service.
Dying very poor, this singular fellow be-
queathed his debts to the Government of
Bengal, who generously accepted the
equivocal legacy. We hardly know wheth-
er to admire more the sangfroid of the tes-
tator or the bonhomme of the legatee.


