WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Ellen T. Miller of New York, who
died recently, in her will left some $11,
500 to the various benevolent boards of
the Presbyterian Church.
	MISS Laura Redding, "Howard Glyndon"
of the New York mail, was born a deaf
mute, but can now articulate quite dis-
tinctly and not unpleasantly. 
	MRS. H. S. Dickinson, of Holyoke, Mass., 
who has been very successful in her instruc-
tions to young Chinese students, will take
into her family some of the number who
arrived from China early in Septem-
ber.
	MRS. Lindsay, a benevolent Christian
lady, has collected money and books for the
Jewish school at Tangiers. She has seen 
the sad situation of the Jewish children in
that African city, pittied them, and conclud-
ed to assist them. Her efforts have been
crowned with good success.
	MISS Fanny Townsley of Shelburne Falls,
Mass., who has been teaching and doing
missionary work during the last year at
Shelburne Falls, has been engaged to take
charge of the Academy at Wilmington, Vt.
Miss Townsley is an occasional contributor
to Harper's Weekly and other journals.
	LADY Dufferin, wife of the Governor
General of Canada, who accompanied her
husband in his recent visit to the United
States, is much younger than he, and is ev-
idently a lady of great conversational pow-
ers. She has the reputation of poetical
genius, and is said to be descended from
Richard Brinsley Sheridan.
	MRS. Elizabeth Akers Allen (Florence
Percy), is the author of "Rock Me to Sleep
Mother." The poem was written by her
while a factory girl in Maine, upon a sheet
of coarse brown writing-paper in which she
had brought her noon lunch, and while
waiting for the hour to recommence her 
labor. 
	MISS Charlotte W. Ford, a graduate of a
New York medical college and of Mt. Hol-
yoke Seminary, is about to commence prac-
tice in Springfield, Mass. She will be asso-
ciated with Dr. Sarah J. Williams, whose
office practice has increased to the extent 
of occupying her full time, and rendering
necessary an assistant physician.
	MISS Sallie Hooper, over eighty years old,
a native of Northfield, Long Island, N. Y.,
has been committed to the county poor-
house under peculiar circumstances. She
was the owner of a house and lot at Long
Neck, which she agreed to deed to a Mrs.
Ann Eliza Lake and her husband, on con-
dition that they should maintain and take
care of her during her life. The arrange-
ment was made, and she went to reside
with the Lakes, but her life was made so
uncomfortable that she was soon obliged to
leave. She demanded the return of her
property, which was refused. It is probable
that her case will be taken up by the au-
thorities. 
	MISS Jane Ainslie, who died recently in
Edinburgh, was the originator of "The
Flower Mission" in Glasgow. So long as
her strength permitted she personally su-
pervised the mission, carrying baskets full
of bouquets to the Infirmary, where smiles
and words of welcome always awaited her.
When she could no longer pay these visits,
in her sick room, her hands and thoughts
were ever busy in the work. A change to
Grantown in the early part of the summer
was deemed advisable. There her thoughts
were still for the sick and suffering. Al-
most to the last day of her existence she
occupied herself, in the intervals of pain, 
with making small wire baskets to hold ferns
for the patients in the Infirmary. 
	MRS. Susanna Moodie writes to the Tor-
onto "Globe" from Lakefield, Ontario, to 
correct some of the statements published
regarding her sister, the late Miss Agnes
Strickland, the authoress of the histories of
the "Queens of England" and the "Queens
of Scotland." Miss Strickland, she says,
was born in the county of Kent, England,
July 19, 1796. Early in life she showed a
love for history, and soon made herself well
acquainted with the historical works and
the English classics in her father's well-
filled library. She frequently amused and
instructed her brothers and sisters by re-
peating passages from the works she had
read, and during her father's illness read to
him the political events of the day.


A GREAT artist of Boston, who excels in
painting animals, saw as he was passing
through one of the rural towns of Massa-
chusetts a very animated looking bull.
Thinking he would like to take him on can-
vas, he got permission of the owner, an
honest old farmer, and in due time produced
an excellent likeness of the bull which he
sold for $200. On seeing the farmer soon
after, he told him he had sold the picture
of the bull for $200. "Good gracious!" said
the old man; "Why, I would have sold him,
the bull, for less than that."


A BOOKBINDER had a book brought him
to rebind. After the job was finished, he
made the following entry in his day-book,
"To repairing the 'Way to heaven,' twenty-
five cents!"


