MR. GRAY AT HOME.

	"You have done the chores, haven't you
wife?" Said Mr. Gray coming in one night
about sundown.
	"No, dear, I had supper to get, and the
baby was so cross."
	"You haven't been getting supper all the
afternoon I hope."
	"No I had some washing to do, and the
windows to clean, and the pies to bake,
and"—
	"Oh, stop that, please. To hear you talk,
one would think you had more than your
share of work. I'm sure there is no man
tries harder than I do to save his wife steps,
and this is  the thanks I get for it. Don't
go to contradicting me. Give me the milk
buckets; if I ask you to milk, you will have
a dozen excuses. I want Katie to go with 
me, to keep the hogs off while I milk."
	Katie goes, and her father keeps her
three-quarters of an hour, and then tells her
she can go and take care of the baby while
her mother attends to the milk. In about
five minutes Mr. Gray comes in to supper.
His wife is down in the cellar.
	"Say, wife, ain't supper ready?"
	"In just a minute."
	"Just a minute! Everything is done in
just a minute. Another night, I suppose, I
will have to come in and get supper for my-
self, after working hard all day. If you
tried as hard as I do to make home pleasant,
we would get along a great deal better than
we do. You are always behind with every-
thing, and then you grumble because you
have so much work to do. Well, supper is
ready at last, is it? It is about time, I 
think."
	They sit down to table.
	"O Lord, we thank thee for this and all
other blessings; feed us with the bread of
life, and save us in heaven. Amen. Is
this the best table-cloth you have got?"
	"Yes."
	"It is? Why don't you buy another?
Ain't you got any money? What did you
do with the money you got for those eggs?
	"Bought a hat for Katie."
	"Bought a hat for Katie, and me needing
I don't know how many farm implements.
I never knew such extravagance in my life.
It would please me exceedingly if you
would consult me about such matters after
this. I guess I'll go to bed. I can't have
any peace up. Wife, before you come to
bed, just patch that rent in my coat; and
oh! I wore a hole in my sock to-day. You 
must either mend it, or get me out a clean
pair. There is a chicken in the barrel by
the hen-house; I want that for my break-
fast. Come children, come and kiss papa.
Good-night, and don't forget to say your
prayers."'


THERE are 800,000 more women than men
in England.


