SPLINTERS.
			   LOCAL.
	Five hundred immigrants arrived in Og-
den on Wednesday the 23rd ult........Mr.
Denton has been giving a course of scien-
tific lectures on geology in this city......
Miss Mary J. Times, 17 years old, suicided
at Portage, Box Elder Co., on the 23rd ult.
.......Machinery for developing the bed of
fuel at the Crismon coal mine, Coalville, is
being fitted......A co-operative tannery is
connected with the United Order at Farm-
ington......A shoemaker pays twenty-five
dollars here for assaulting the wife of a tai-
lor......A careless man while shooting black-
birds with a shot gun, shot a little boy in
the Fourth Ward the other day, fortunately
with no very serious results.
			LITERARY.
	"Women and Work" will be the title of
a newspaper about to be started by Emily
Faithful......Two lectures designed to be
delivered before lyceums have been pre-
pared by Miss Hulda B. Loud of Rockland,
Mass.......This year there are one hundred
and twenty-five members in the freshman
class at Cornell University......New York
city has two thousand three hundred and
fifty-three school teachers, ninety-four thou-
sand scholars and expends three million
six hundred and eighty-three dollars this
year in the cause of education......Mrs. Har-
ding is collecting materials for a new novel
.......Fanny Aikin—Korthright has a new
book entitled "A little lower than the an-
gels."
			ARTISTIC.	
	At Greenbush a Philharmonic Society
has been organized.....The collection of
paintings lent to the Boston Museum of Fine
Arts, by the Duke of Montpensier, have ar-
rived in Boston.......Walton’s collection of
paintings, now on exhibition in the Burling-
ton Gallery, consists of two groups—one of
scenes in Egypt and Arabia, the other views
of Alpine scenery.....The famous collection
of pictures by the old masters, formed by
the late Mr. Alexander Barker, of Piccadilly,
was recently sold.....Great improvements
are being made in England, in the design
and artistic execution of high-class domestic
furniture......George Browning, F. R. H. S.,
lectures on art-revival in Italy.
			PERSONAL.
	Prince Leopold, youngest son of Queen
Victoria, delivered a speech in English,
French and Italian on entering the Masonic
fraternity......The Prince of Wales acts tem-
porarily as Grand Master of the Free Masons
in England, in place of the Marquis of Ripon
who resigned......Victoria C. Woodhull and
Tennie C. Claflin are said to have attracted
much attention in Paris, being regarded as
typical American ladies......Rev. Phoebe A.
Hanniford is pastor of the first Universalist
Church in Jersey City......Charles E. Court-
ney, champion oarsman of New York, will
establish a rowing school at Auburn.....Jean
Louis Hamon, the German artist, is dead.
So also is Arnold Herrman Lossow, German
sculptor.
			GENERAL.	
	Valparaiso had an earthquake lately......
Thirteen thousand cotton operatives at Bol-
ton, England, are preparing for a strike......
The usual dividends of the four leading
railroads of England have been cut down
two or three million dollars this season.....
According to an order lately given, all for-
eign priests, monks and nuns will be expelled
from Prussia......Trouble is anticipated be-
tween the whites and blacks of Jamaica.....
A severe shock of earthquake was recently
[next column]
felt at Yokahama......Bush fires have been
raging for some time in Templeton, Canada,
and much loss of property will be the re-
sult......A great inundation is announced
from Barreiros.....Incendiaries are becom-
ing troublesome at Buffalo......There are
thirty-eight acknowledged women preach-
ers in the United States......The Auburn,
New York, prison has one thousand one
hundred and eighty-four inmates at present
......The home-rule hat which has no crown
is the latest Irish fashion.....The rite of
confirmation was administered to two hun-
dred children at Albany on a recent Sunday
.......St. Louis has erected a monument in
honor of General Nathaniel Lyon......One
steamer lately took four thousand watemel-
ons into Boston......A triple eruption of
Mount Etna was lately very lively, but is
now over and the lava has ceased to flow
......Massachusetts has a law that one dozen
eggs shall weigh one pound and a half......
Silk culture along the Pacific coast is becom-
ing a fixed interest.....The flouring mills at
Sublett, Ill., were lately burned to the
ground by lightning......New York has a
female bill-poster who is said to be doing an
extensive business......Not one-fifth of the
land of Illinois, it is said, is yet under cul-
tivation......Texas has not a single Univer-
salist church......The Jews of Moldavia
and Ukraine make sugar of honey which is
said to be as white as snow.


