LITTLE HARRY.

	"Those words of an Irish serving woman
were a great comfort to me," said a mother
amid her tears; it seemed more than she
could bear, the thought of laying down in
the cold and darkness of the grave, all the
beauty and sweetness of her little boy.
And the Irish woman trying in her homely
way to comfort her, said, "well, he isn't too
pretty for where he's gone." I think those
words were just what she needed. This
touching little story is a true one, the mother
a very dear friend of mine, of a nature
most impressible and tender, told it to me.
While close by, in the dim, sorrowful sun-
light, lay little Harry, with his large, open
blue eyes, that seemed like life instead of
death, with the flowers scattered over him
and the small, beautiful hands that looked
like lilies half blossomed and waiting for
the morning sunshine to come and open
them. There he lay in the small casket which
resembled a coffin as little as possible, wait-
ing too, a little while, for they were bear-
ing him from the city home whose light he
had been, whose joy he had made, to the
still country grave yard, where the grass
would build over him its low, green roof,
and the last autumn birds would sing their
sweet farewells over his slumbers.
	At last the mother rose up, went to the
coffin and kissed the sweet, cold face there
and said, "My little boy, it is the last ride
you will ever take." And only you, oh
mothers! who have so laid away the sweet
perished blossoms of your love and tender-
ness know how her heart ached as she said
these words. And then the lid was fasten-
ed down and little Harry was shut out from
our sight.
	As the words of the Irish woman found
their way to that mother's heart, in her
great anguish and desolation, so I thought 
they might find a way to some other moth-
er's heart, stricken like hers.
	"Not too pretty for where he has gone."
All the sweet looks and ways, the little cun-
ning, hindering tricks, the pearls of laugh-
ter, the fluttering hands, the pattering feet,
all gone—and in their stead a great blank
and darkness. With only those touching
witnesses, tiny shoes, baby aprons and little
embroidered dresses. But the blossom whose
beauty and fragrance brightened the home
below, will bloom fairer and larger in that
upper home where there are no frosts to
chill, no snows to cover over. Oh! the Irish
woman was right. Neither little Harry nor
your own baby, mourning mother, was too
pretty for the Heaven to which it has gone.


An editor clipped from an exchange an
obituary poem, which he sent to the compos-
ing-room with some introductory remarks.
He said: "We publish below a very touch-
ing production from the pen of Miss M——.
It was written by her at the death-bed of
her sainted mother, and it overflows with
those expressions of filial affection which
are the natural outgrowth of pure untutored
genius that has developed beneath the shel-
tering influence of a mother’s love. The
reader will observe how each line glows,
with ardent affection and tenderest regret.”
	Somehow, in attaching this introduction
to the poem, the editor turned up the wrong
side of the clipping, and the consequence
was that the editor's lines led the reader
gently into an article upon “Hog Cholera in
Tennessee.” It was rumored that the rela-
tives of Miss M——were seen prowling
around the office next day armed with shot-
guns, but this has not been traced to any re-
liable authority.


