FACTS AND FIGURES.

	IN New York City over 66 per cent. of all
the teachers are women. Chicago employs
93 per cent. of female teachers.
	THERE are fifty-seven lodges of Odd Fel-
lows in California, with a total membership
of 3,015.
	IT is a criminal offence in France for a
young lady to have in her possession a pho-
tograph of the Prince Imperial.
	INDEPENDENT of rent-free and tax-free
residences, the Royal Family of England
draw from the public treasury the annual
sum of £655,674. This makes the entire
cost, on account of that one family, $2,377,
870 a year in gold.
	MRS. Anna G. R. Bacon, now residing
with her son at Sherburne, N. Y., attained,
her 101st birthday July 14th. She is in
good health and is the oldest person now
living in that town. 
	ABOUT a ton of ice is used every night to
cool the air that is pumped into the House 
of Commons. The air is filtered and ren-
dered absolutely pure. 	
	DURABILITY OF GOLD AND SILVER COINS.
—It appears from experiments made in St.
Peersburg that, contrary to the opiniont
generally entertained, gold coin wears away
faster than that of silver. Twenty pieces
of gold, half imperials, and as much of sil-
ver copecks—coins of about the same size-
were put into new barrels, mounted like
churns, which were kept turning for four
hours continually. It was then found, on
weighing the coins, that the gold ones had
lost sixty-four grammes—the silver ones
only thirty-four; but as the gold pieces
were twenty-eight per cent. less than those
of silver, the proportion is of course greater
to that amount in favor of the latter. The
silver also contained more alloy than the
gold.
	WOMEN IN MEDICINE.—“It must not be
forgotten that a woman in the sixteenth
century lectured ably on obstetrics to large
classes of both sexes; that a woman discov-
ered the cause of uterine hemorrhages;
that a woman brought into notice the now
indispensible Peruvian bark, having first
tested its virtue; that a woman perfected a
system of artificial nourishment for babes,
which is still in use in France; that a woman
first illustrated her lectures by a manikin of
her own invention; that a woman made the
first wax preparations for the use of stu-
dents in anatomy; that a woman was the
earliest performer of the Cæsarean opera-
tion; that a woman effected the introduc-
tion of inoculation for smallpox; that a wo-
man brought to perfection a tube for the
restoration of children born in a state of
asphyxia; that a women prepared the first
illustrated medical botany, and that some
very important treatise on different themes
in medical sciences have been written by
women.—Rev. O. B. Frothingham.


