HYGIENIC NOTES.
	HINTS FOR NURSES.—The following sensi-
ble suggestions are from the pen of Florence
Nightingale: Conciseness and decision are,
above all things necessary with the sick.
Let your thought expressed to them be
concisely and decidedly expressed. What
doubt and hesitation there may be in your
own mind must never be communicated to
theirs, not even (I would rather say espe-
cially not) in little things. Let your doubt
be to yourself, your decision to them. Peo-
ple who think outside their heads, the
whole process of whoso thought appears,
like Homer’s, in the act of secretion, who
tell everything that led them towards this
conclusion and away from that, ought never
to be with the sick.
	Irresolution is what all patients most
dread. Rather than meet this in others,
they will collect all their data, and make up
their minds for themselves. A change of
mind in others, whether it is regarding an
operation, or re-writing a letter, always in-
jures the patient more than the being called
upon to make up his mind to the most
dreaded or difficult decision. Further than
this, in very many cases, the imagination
in disease is far more active and vivid than
it is in health. If you propose to the pa-
tient change of air to one place one hour,
and to another the next, he has in each case,
immediately constituted himself in imagi-
nation the tenant of the place, gone over
the whole premises in idea, and you have
tired him as much by displacing his imagi-
tion, as if you had actually carried him over
both places.
	Above all, leave the sick room quickly
and come into it quickly, not suddenly, not
with a rush. But don’t let the patient be
wearily waiting for when you will be out of
the room or when you will be in it. Con-
ciseness and decision in your movements,as
well as your words, are necessary in the sick
room, as necessary as absence of hurry and
bustle. To possess yourself entirely will
ensure you from either failing—either loit-
ering or hurrying.
	If a patient has to see, not only to his
own but also to his nurse’s punctuality, or
perseverance, or readiness, or calmness, to
any or all of these things, he is far better
without that nurse than with her—however
valuable and handy her services may other-
wise be to him, and however incapable he
may be of rendering them to himself.
	SODA EOR TOOTH ACHE.—A correspond-
ent of the London Medical Gazette, has
discovered that soda is a remedy for the
tooth ache. He says the most pleasant and
agreeable soda will immediately or in a few
minutes cause entire cessation of pain, by
filling the tooth carefully with the powdered
carbonate, so that it may descend to the
nerve, which its solution in the saliva will
soon after allow it to do. He says he is not
aware that it will cure all cases or make a 
permanent cure, though it will relieve the 
sufferer for many hours.
	REMEDIES FOR COSTIVENESS.—Costive-
ness has an agreeable remedy in the free use
of tomatoes at meals—their seeds acting in
the way of the white mustard or figs, by
stimulating the coats of the bowels over
which they pass, in their whole state, to in-
creased action.	
	A remedy of equal efficiency, in the same
direction is cracked wheat—that is, common
white wheat grains, broken into two or
three pieces, and then boiled until it is as
soft as rice, and eaten mainly at two meals
of the day, with butter or molasses.
	PRECAUTIONS AGAINST TRICHINA.—Eat
no uncooked or half-cooked hog’s flesh.
The raw flesh of the hog, whatever its shape
or condition, whether ham, bacon, or pork,
salt or fresh, smoked or unsmoked, is liable
to contain this parasite, full of life and ac-
tivity that may work a remediless mischief
in the human body. Bologna sausage, if
pork be in it uncooked, is as dangerous as
any form of this meat. The heat that cooks
meat utterly destroys the life and mischiev-
ous power of these vermin, and no one need
fear any harm if this fact is observed.


THE YOUNG lady students at Willow Park
Seminary, Westbro, Mass., are expected to
practise Dress Reform and Physical culture,
every one being required to wear the gym-
nastic costume instead of any other. The
following statement concerning physical
culture appears in the catalogue of the in-
stitution:
	"We wish our students to have a sound
mind in a sound body, hence forty minutes
of each school-day are devoted to well-
studied Physical Exercises, upon the plan
of Dr. Dio Lewis' Light Gymnastics. We
have a thoroughly competent teacher, whose
business it is to attend punctually to teach-
ing, drilling, and otherwise carrying out
the details of this department. The Pro-
prietor, a practical physician, gives special
attention to the Boarding Department of
Physical Culture,as well as to all that tends to
give health and vigor to the students while
here, and a capability to retain the same
after leaving the school. In this depart-
ment our school has proved a perfect success.
Young ladies who, by repeated trials, have
found themselves totally unable to attend
school a term without breaking down, have
here pursued a thorough course of studies a
full year, and then left the Institution vig-
orous and healthy. The value of this fea-
ture of our school cannot be estimated.
Each student is entitled to one Turkish
Bath per week (though it is not a require-
ment); and so beneficial has the bath proved
in relieving the system of all impurities,
and consequently giving fair and healthy
complexions, that parents often wish their
daughters to have an extra bath each week at
an extra expense. We believe that this is the
only school in the world where the pupil
has weekly access to the Turkish Bath.”


﻿“GETTING BORN costs the people of the
United States $220,005,000 annually; get-
ting married, $250,000,000." Now for the
consequental expenses who has the figures?


