EDITORIAL NOTES

	AN ENGLISH aeronaut complains that his
baloon was fired at not less than three times
during a recent ascent from London, and of-
fers £100 reward for the apprehension of the
parties who fired. 
	THE WOMEN of Iowa have resolved to
lend their influence to have no man elected
to office who does not support the cause of
Woman Suffrage. We think this is sensible
and consistent and hope the ladies of that
State will persevere until they possess the
right to vote equally with the men.
	MRS. CELIA Burleigh, in a recent letter to
the "Woman's Journal," contradicts the re-
port that she is homeless and her life nearly
closed with incurable consumption. We
feel pleased to thus learn that the paragraph
in our last issue concerning her was without
foundation.
	BRET HARTE'S works are reported to
command a higher price than those of any
other writer of the day. His latest story,
"John Oakhurst," was written in one night,
for which he received five hundred dollars.
And yet he can keep no money by him and
is a poor man. Ah! "It is not what we earn
but what we keep that makes us rich."
	WITH ALL the deaths that are daily oc-
curring from diseases and accidents, it seems
that some people cannot be satisfied, but
want themselves to have a hand in the
work of destruction. A man named Hed-
ges shot and killed another by the name of
Golden at Beaver city lately, and Golden
tried as hard but not as successfully to kill
Hedges.
	AT AN election recently held in Alameda
Co., California, to decide the question of
granting liquor license under the "local op-
tion" law, Miss Sallie Hart and other ladies
interested, erected a tent and raised upon it
the American flag. Here they engaged in
the distribution of temperance tickets, when
a mob of infuriated Germans tore down the
flag, attacked the tent and grossly insulted
the ladies. We learn the above from an ex-
change, and the editor sensibly comments
upon the circumstance in the following lan-
guage:—"Are American women not to be
allowed to use so peaceful and quiet a means
of aiding the temperance reform? Not only
deprived of a vote, but they must not even
distribute tickets to legal voters. Said vo-
ters could not be forced to accept or use the
tickets, but if they could be induced to do
so, the voters had certainly a right to vote
as they pleased. Even if they urged the
matter, is there more harm in such elec-
tioneering than by the arguments of whis-
key and money?” 
	STEAM HAS been utilized in many ways
and to a wonderful degree for promoting the
comfort and power of man; and now if the
following be true, there is reason to hope
that it may, in time, do away with the un-
wholesome and disagreeable smoke that
now causes so many localities to be both un-
healthy and unpleasant to work or live in.
"The proprietors of the Cleveland Herald
have recently applied an apparatus to their
office chimney which is claimed to be a per-
fect preventative of smoke and a great saver
of fuel. The discovery which the Herald
thinks a very valuable one, was purely acci-
dental. A mechanic of that city was try-
ing to secure a better draft for a sluggish
fire, and the thought occured to him after
other devices had failed, to try the effects
of steam. A small pipe was made to con-
duct the "dry steam" from the top of the
boiler to the upper part of the furnace,
where it entered in two small jets, striking
downward on the burning fuel. No sooner
was the steam injected into the furnace than
the sluggish, smoky fire sprang into a clear,
bright yellowish and intensely hot flame,
filling the whole furnace with a loud roar.
The man found that he had not only secured
a strong draft, but something much more
important, a smokeless fire. As an experi-
ment the apparatus was attached to the fur-
nace of the Herald engine, which was con-
verted from a neighborhood nuisance of
smoke and soot into a smokeless flue.


