HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	About Rag Carpets.—Not long since, while cut-
ting a piece of rag carpeting to suit the rooms for
which it was designed, I was much annoyed by its
"propensity" to unravel, wasting at least an inch
at each end, which to my economical mind was not
at all pleasant. So I "set my wits to work" to
devise a better way, and have found that by stitch-
ing it on the sewing machine, on each side of and
very close to the dividing line, or where it is to be
cut off, no wastage will occur, and the edges may
then be bound with narrow binding as other car-
peting. Some ladies whom I know supply their
weavers with old yarn which is woven in at stated
lengths, according to the size of the room which
the carpet is intended for. As the yarn will not
unravel easily, it may be cut there, and hemmed or
bound, as preferred.
	Beefsteak.—A method of broiling equal in every
respect to the gridiron, excepting that it lacks the
smoky taste, is this: Set your spider on the stove,
and let it get smoking hot. Put in no butter nor
any kind of grease. Have your meat previously
prepared by trimming off all pieces of bone, gland;
superfluous suet and tissues that will bind the edge
and make it curl up. Lay it very carefully and
smoothly in the spider. It will stick fast at first,
but as soon as it is browned, can be loosened with
a knife. Sprinkle a little salt on the upper sur-
face, and turn it over. Let the other side brown
the same as the first. Have a platter warmed,
lay the meat carefully upon it, without besmearing
the edges, dress with butter and pepper, and send
it to the table hot. By this process you have as
crisp and brown a surface, with the juice retained,
as well as by broiling, and the additional advan-
tage that the inevitable drippings are saved, and
can be converted into gravy.
	Wash For Buildings.—The following is a most
excellent, cheap and durable wash for wooden fen-
ces and buildings. It owes its durability chiefly to
the white vitriol which hardens and fixes the wash:
	Take a barrel and slack one bushel of freshly
burned lime in it, by covering the lime with boil-
ing water. After it is slacked, add cold water
enough to bring it to the consistency of good white-
wash. Then dissolve in water, and add one pound
of white vitriol (sulphate of zinc) and one quart of
fine salt. To give this wash a cream color, add
one half pound of yellow ochre (in powder). To
give it a fawn look, add a pound of yellow  ochre
and one-fourth of a pound of Indian red. To make
the wash a handsome gray stone color, add one half
pound of French blue  and one-fourth pound of
Indian red; a drab will be made by adding one half
pound of burnt sienna, and one-fourth pound
Venetian red. For brick or stone, instead of one
bushel of lime, use half a bushel of lime and half
[-] bushel of hydraulic cement.
	Be careful with needles.—Many persons have
experienced years of suffering, and not a few have
lost their lives on account of carelessness with
needles. Needles are very useful articles, but are
extremely dangerous when dropped about the floors,
carpets and ruggs, or when carelessly left sticking
in unfinished work.
	About three years ago a woman, while wringing
out a cloth with which she had been wiping the
floor, broke a needle off in her hand. She suf-
fered extremely; and the piece of needle is yet in
her hand, surgical aid having failed to discover it.
A young lady sat down and inclined back against a
piece of unfinished work which she herself had
placed on the back of the chair, and broke the
needle off in her arm. The arm swelled exceed-
ingly and was very painful, but the needle could
not be extracted. A worthy citizen and personal
friend of the writer of this item, as he was about
to retire for the night, stepped on a needle which
had lodged in a rug by the bedside and broke it off
in his heel. He was compelled to undergo a sur-
gical operation in order to obtain relief from the
pain which was caused by this seemingly insignifi-
cant wound. A man in Somerville, Mass., recent-
ly, while eating chicken pie felt, as he supposed, a
small bone lodged in his throat. He applied to a 
surgeon who extracted the offensive agent, which
proved to be a rusty needle. It is supposed that
the needle was carelessly dropped into the food
which the chicken ate, and that it worked its way
into the flesh of the chicken and came near des-
troying the life of the man in question. Numer-
ous other cases might be mentioned, but these are
deemed sufficient to forcibly impress upon the minds
of the incautious the great importance of being
careful about needles.


