EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	In trying to speak through your columns,
I realize my weakness and how dependent
I am upon my heavenly Father for His Holy
Spirit to assist me. It is my first attempt,
but still the precious maxim encourages me,
“Never say can’t, but try.”
	My whole heart is in this kingdom, and I
have a desire to do all the good in my power
to promote its interest. I often reflect,
what a blessed people we are, gathered up
here in these valleys, where we can listen
to the word of the Lord through His Ser-
vants and receive holy ordinances and
blessings which the world know not of.
How thankful we ought to feel! Still, I no-
tice that there is a careless, indifferent spirit
making itself manifest in our midst. What
is the cause of this? Is it because our wor-
thy President tells us that the time has
come for the “United Order” to be estab-
lished among this people? I think that
those who are living their religion and at-
tending to their prayers and privileges, will
bow down to the Lord with thanksgiving
and praise that they are, through the provi-
dences of His Almighty care, permitted to
see this day. Still the Scriptures tell us
that there is to be a great falling away, and
that a dividing line shall be drawn. The
time has come when we must either serve
God or Mammon. When we should exam-
ine ourselves, pray earnestly to our Father
in Heaven for His Holy Spirit to be with us
that we may learn our true position what
we have been placed here for and what is
required at our hands. I can bear testimony
to the truth of the Gospel, and I know that
the “United Order” is from God, and unless
we obey the same we shall never be permit-
ted to return to the celestial presence of
our Father in Heaven. For we know that
order is one of Heaven’s first laws, and that
God is a God of order, and where confusion
reigns, His Holy Spirit will not dwell. I
will say to those who do not understand it,
do not say a word against it, neither against
Plural Marriage, for they are Heaven’s di-
vine laws and must not be trifled with nor
lightly spoken of. We may ask ourselves
the questions, Are we wise or are we fool-


ish? Have we got oil in our lamps or are
they gone out? And then strive to sustain
the servants of the Lord by our faith and
prayers, and give heed unto their counsel,
bringing our minds and wills into subjection
to the priesthood and be ready to be led and
dictated by the same, that we may receive
the welcome words, well done, good and
faithful servants, enter into the joy of your
Lord.						J. R. B.


