HYGIENIC NOTES

	NEURALGIA.—Neuralgia and toothache
are sometimes speedily relieved by applying 
to the wrist a quantity of bruised or grated
horseradish.
	CHARCOAL FOR WOUNDS.—A correspon-
dent of the Scientific American says:—"The 
best simple remedy I have found for surface
wounds, such as cuts, abrasions of the skin,
&c., is charcoal. Take a live coal from the
stove, pulverize it, apply it to the wound
and cover the whole with a rag. The char-
coal absorbs the fluids secreted by the
wound, and lays the foundation of the scab;
it also prevents the rag from irritating the
flesh, and it is antiseptic.
	THUMB-SUCKING.—I have observed that
a peculiar and rather common deformity of
the chest is caused by the habit of sucking
the thumb in infancy and early childhood.
The weight of the arm on the thorax of the
child during sleep produces depression of
the ribs in the line occupied by the arm
when the thumb is placed in the mouth.
As this is a very important effect of "thumb-
sucking" never hitherto pointed out, I think
it desirable to place this thing on record for
the benefit of other observers.—Brit. Med,
Journal.
	WHOOPING COUGH.—A  writer in the
Medical Journal, London, states that in
cases of whooping cough in the last stage—


that is, after the third week—he has had
one ounce of the strongest liquid ammonia
put into a gallon of water in an open pan,
and the steam kept up by means of half a 
brick made red hot throughout, and put in-
to the boiling water containing the ammonia,
the pan being placed in the middle of a
room, into which the patients were brought,
as the ammonia steam was passing off. This
method, he says, was used in the evening,
before bed-time, and it proved so efficacious
in abating the spasmodic, attack, and after
three or four days terminating the malady,
as to establish, beyond a doubt, the value
of this mode of inhaling ammonia as a thera-
peutic agent in tranquilizing the nervous
system in the whooping cough.
	BREAKFAST BEFORE WORK.—Always
take breakfast before leaving the house in
the morning. This will prevent an easy
and early tiring, while the testimony of ob-
servant farmers of education corroborates
the teaching of the best medical minds,
that by strengthening the stomach and
sending invigorating nutriment to the
whole system, weakened by the long fast
of the night, there is generated a power of
resistence against the onsets of disease from
the cold of winter and from the malarias
and miasms of summer, especially in flat,
damp, and luxuriant soils, which can not be
adequately expressed in langauge; while
both experience and experiment have com-
bined to show that, by the simple expedient
of an early breakfast, individuals and fami-
lies and neighborhoods have exempted
themselves from that scourge of all new
countries “fever and ague," especially if
followed by a supper a little before sun-
down, from May to November.


