DIVERSIONS.

	MINISTERS of the interior—The cook and
the doctor. 
	TWO things that are weakened by length-
ening—Steamships and sermons.
	THE St. Louis bridge is a grand work,
but is not without a pier.
	THE latest instance of originality in a
marriage announcement is the following:—
"No cards, no cake, no fuss." 
	THE latest thing in hats—Heads. 
	ON a week day you buy your music by
the sheet. On Sundays you can have it by
the choir.
	AT a hotel table, one boarder said to his
neighbor: "This must be a healthy place
for chickens." "Why?" asked the other.
"Because I've never seen any dead ones
hereabouts."
	IN the hearing of an Irish case for an as-
sault and battery, a counsel, while cross-ex-
amining one of the witnesses, asked him
what they had at the first place they stop-
ped. "Four glasses of ale." What next?"
"Two glasses of whiskey." "What next?'
"One glass of brandy." "What next?"
"A fight."
	DR. Hill, an Edinburgh professor of the
last century, met, in the suburbs of the city,
a man who was generally regarded as an
imbecile. Somewhat irritated by the in-
trusion on the privacy of his walk, Dr. Hill
said to him, "How long, Tom, can one live
without brains?" "I dinna ken," answered
Tom; "how long has ye lived yerself?"
	I SUPPOSE if thare want a solitary human
being on the face ov the earth, the sun 
would still rise in the east and set in the
west, the volkanoes would ockasionally
vomit fire, and Niagara would keep on roar-
ing, but thare's lots ov pholks who don't
think so.—Josh Billings.
	THE head of the family is about to eat an
apple. Mother—"Say, father, give us a
piece." Daughter—"Oh, father, give me a
piece." Son—"O, father, I want a piece."
Niece—"Won't you please to give me a
piece, too?" Father (disgusted)— "Here,


the rest of you take the apple and give me
a piece.”
	A CERTAIN young lady unguardedly vol-
unteered the remark in a family circle, that
“when gentlemen eat warm maple sugar it
gets into their mustaches and makes them
scratchy.” Her father is curious to know
how she found it out.


