SKETCHES.

	In looking over my Journal of 1851, I am
reminded of how my days were spent on
the Tupual Island in the South Pacific
Ocean.
	In the morning I taught the Island child-
ren in the Tahitain tongue; dismissed them
and taught my own and the "half breeds"
in the common branches of the English lan-
guage. A few hours in the afternoon, I
spent in reading, writing and sewing.
	On the 8th of October, Conference time
at Salt Lake, a party of us, nineteen in num-
ber, went for a pleasure excursion to some
small islands called Notus, four in a group.
We landed on the largest, found cocoa nuts,
the men caught fish, made an oven and
cooked food of which we ate heartily
	The island had a delightful appearance,
the green trees—chiefly tamanah and cocoa-
nut, both valuable—contrasting beautifully
with the fine, white sand on the beach. I
walked round it on the reef and picked up
small shells and some fine specimens of cor-
al.
	The men threw up a sort of shelter with
the branches of trees, under which we
spread our bedding and slept comfortably
through the night. The children, (a motly
group, white, half-breeds and full natives,)
seemed all the while delighted. They
strolled about the island, swung on the
branches of the trees and carroled like the
birds. We sailed back with a fair breeze
the next day.
	On the 13th, Captain Johnson's vessel ar-
rived from Tahiti bringing one letter from
Brother Dunn, informing us that he had re-
ceived a letter from Salt Lake, dated more
than a year previous, containing news of
the death of Bishop Whitney and father
Sessions, two good men. I thought if they
knew in Salt Lake how we longed for news
from there, they would neither eat or sleep
until they had a package of letters ready to
send us, assuring us that we were remem-
bered in their prayers. But writing to ab-
sent friends is a duty which is ofter neg-
lected.
	At this time nearly all the people on the
island were preparing to accompany "Pari-
ta" on his mission to Ravaivai. This caused
a little excitement, something to think
about. I held a meeting with the native
sisters and had a little address written,
which Brother Grouard translated into Tahi-
tian for me. They all admired it very
much. I could read well in Tahitian, and
read the 29th chapter of Isaiah which Ellen
explained to them, about the coming forth
of the Book of Mormon. One woman en-
quired if the Nephites were "man taata
papa?"—(Europeans.)—I told her they were
the forefathers of the Tahitians. She
seemed much pleased and expressed a de-
sire to know more about the "Book." That
agrees with a tradition the Islanders have,
that their ancestors came from a great Is-
land to which they could never find an
end.
	On the 20th of October, I wrote in my
journal as follows:
	Three schooners are preparing to leave
Tubuai. Captain Johnson with the "Miri-
ama," the King's vessel, "Messenger" and
the Mormon "Praivai," Captain Grouard.
Our three eldest daughters will go. They
can speak the language and will be useful.
The younger one will remain with her aunt
Crosby. Captain Johnson will take his lit-
tle step daughter, Mary Cane, whom we
have had in our family seven months. It
will grieve Frances to part with her she has
been under her special care, so submissive
and amiable. She is a dear little girl six
years old, born on Toubuai, Her father
was an Irish merchant, her mother a half
white woman. Her father (Mr. Cane) died
and was burried on this island. The na-
tives have a superstition that they must
never pluck fruit growing near a grave.
With a reverent air, silent and thoughtful,
Mary will walk about the grave of her fa-
ther, seeming more like a woman than a
child, regarding the spot as very sacred.
Captain Johnson is a sensible well bred man,
very fond of Mary; her mother is a woman
of very cleanly habits; so the child must
have daily ablutions and every article of
clothing changed. They have made our
daughter many nice presents and commend-
ed her highly for the improvements made
in their little girl.
	Before we were ready to sail for Raivai-
vai, we received a visit from the King of
that island, who informed us that the Mis-
sion House newly erected there, had been
blown down by a hurricane. I remarked
that this seemed to me a sign that we should
not go there to remain long. The King was
very anxious that we should go; said he be-
lieved the whole of his people would re-
ceive the Gospel.
	We sailed on the 27th and reached the
island at 10 o'clock the next morning.
The island of Raivaivai is more mountain-
ous than Toubuai. The small town where
we landed presented a lively appearance
from the sea. The house of worship resem-
bled a city hotel; white walls with green
window blinds, a long row of trees growing
in front—beautiful trees with hanging fo-
liage like the pine but much finer.
	The natives who accompanied us dressed
themselves very neatly to go on shore. The
Queen of Tubuai wore a bonnet made on
her own island, from the stalk of the arrow
root, trimming of the same. It looked
nice enough for any queen to wear. She
had fine kid shoes in her chest, but would
not wear them as she was certain they would
make her walk clumsily. Her dress fell
below her feet, and she walked very majes-
tically from the landing into the village.
	No place appeared thoroughly clean ex-
cept the "Fare bare ra," (house of prayer.)
A stone pavement was laid on all sides of
that and great pains taken to keep all clean
about it. The work inside displayed taste
and ingenuity, seats made in the form of
sofas, covered with carved work.
	The English church at first refused to let
their house of worship to preach in, but the
King interposed and it was obtained. Bro.
Pratt preached the first Mormon sermon
there. Some were pleased, others looked
demure. After the service a consultation
was held to decide whether "Parita" should
remain. Spirited speeches were made on
both sides. The speech of one old chief who
had been baptized in the morning made us
laugh. He wanted new talk, was tired of
the old which had become like old food, not
good, smelt bad. "Parita" must stay and
teach the new words. The Tubuains said he
should not stay where he was not wanted;
so said all the white men. But it was vo-
ted that he should remain. He commended
his family to the care of the faithful ones
who had accompanied us, and said that God
should bless them. They shed a profusion
of tears and promised that we should want
for nothing they could provide; which
promise was faithfully kept.
	We sailed with them, the following day,
for Tubuai.
	Beaver,					L. B. P.


