THE HARD TIMES.

	Every body knows that the times are now
dull—duller than usual in all parts of the
country and all over the world. Stingy men
grumble, weak ones whine, short-sighted peo-
ple fret and long-tongued ones complain over
the present dull, hard times. And still, seem-
ingly, few persons, so very few that among the
masses they are scarcely noticable, are willing
to assist in creating reforms calculated to bring
forth brighter days.
	Every one must be fashionably attired, every
table must be spread with some rich danties,
every house elaborately furnished.
	To watch the course of the fashionable world,
puts one in mind of a pig which concludes to
go through a gate-way at all hazards, though
a boy stands by with a big stick, ready to strike
it as it approaches. The pig intent on the pur-
pose in view, may fail to see the danger it is in
until the first blow is dealt, whack over its
head. Then it gives a little grunt and starts
backward a few steps, but nothing daunted,
rushes forward again with more force than be-
fore and a more positive determination to have
its own way. When the second blow from the
stick in the boy's hand comes, dealt with more
vigor than the former, the pig is better pre-
pared for it, and stands his grounds firmly, only
rearing its nose upwards to utter a loud and pro-


longed squeal. Then lowering its head it push-
es forward persistently and passes the boy, being 
too ignorant to regard the fact that in so doing,
it runs away from and looses its supper.
	Notwithstanding the hints which are drop-
ped occasionly here and there, and which if
heeded might avert the ruinous results which
are staring people in the face, they rush for-
ward to evident financial destruction. There
is only here and there a woman now-a-days,
who has the courage to say "I will be consist-
ent no matter how others do or what they
think of me," and stand by these assertions.
And the young lady who is able to move in
fashionable society and dares to dress and act
in conformity with comfort, health and ease,
deserves to have the first prize awarded her at
any fair, and free passes to concerts and thea-
tres.


