EXHORTATIVE.

	"If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of
God, that giveth to all men liberally, and up-
braideth not; and it shall be given him."
	Is not this passage of Scripture applicable to us
all, especially at the present time? Is there any
sister in our community who does not feel that
we need all the wisdom, knowledge, and un-
derstanding, that God, in His mercy and lov-
ing kindness can bestow upon us, to help us
keep our covenants and fight the battle against
sin and Satan that is daily and hourly raging
against us, so that we may gain the victory and
prove ourselves Saints of God, in very deed?
What do we, as daughters of Zion, need to do
in order to strengthen and fortify ourselves
against the attacks that are made upon us on
every hand? We must arouse ourselves and
root out of our hearts every evil and overcome
every weakness that is likely to prove a barrier
between us and the Spirit of God. We are
the children of one family, belonging to one
household of faith, members of one church
namely, the Church of Jesus Christ, subjects
of one King, who is the King of Kings and
Lord of Lords.	
	Let us, as sisters, put from us all nationality
and prejudice; all covetousness, envy, and
malice, and every feeling calculated to mar the
peace of mind, and destroy the unity and love
that the principles of the Gospel of Jesus brings
to us when we observe them as we should.
	Let us be up and awake; shake off the slum-
ber that we have given way to; fast and pray
for that faith which was given to the Saints
anciently, for wisdom to guide us in all our
acts, and for the spirit of discernment that we
may know good from evil; let us wrestle with
the Lord, in mighty prayer, that we may have
strength to overcome the evils around us and
our children.
	Our fathers, husbands, and brothers, who
are faithful, need all the help we can give them
to buoy them up and cheer them onward in
the path of duty; and shall we sustain them in
their glorious calling, help them roll on the
work, and build up the kingdom of our God?
Yes, a thousand times yes! then let us away
with all folly and foolish pride and say: "We
will not pattern after the world, neither will
we follow after its pleasures." The question
comes before us, "What shall we do with our
children?" Help them to understand the faith
that we have embraced, educate them thor-
oughly to know the principles of the everlast-
ing Gospel. Teach them to pray earnestly for
the Spirit of God to guide them aright, that
they may not be led away from the path of
truth and virtue. Teach them to pray for and
sustain the Priesthood of the true and living
God. Lead them to emulate all good works.
Show them by our own acts and our faith, that
we practise what we preach, or in other words,
that we have proved for ourselves and can help
them to obtain knowledge and strength for
themselves, which will not prove delusive,
neither will it be fleeting or transient, but will
be sure beyond anything that the world, Satan
or his emissaries can give them. Help them
to be firm; to be punctual in every thing and
faithful to every trust, no matter how small; to
let no one outvie or outstrip them, in humility
courtesy and kindness; to treat the aged, and
the humblest of our brethren and sisters with
respect, no matter how poorly clad. Then we
will have noble sons and daughters, that moth-
ers will cherish, fathers will love and God will
pour down his blessings upon, as he did upon
the infant Samuel. Then shall our light
shine forth to the world in effulgent rays: it
will be as a beacon set upon a hill, that will
lead the weary and world-worn traveller to a
haven of rest; it will be like building our
house upon a rock that no wind or wave can
wash away, or persecution overcome.
	Let us each learn this lesson, let our hands
stretch forth in one faithful, united effort, our
hearts beat as one; and let us pledge ourselves
to sustain the Kingdom of God and its princi-
ples, while life shall last; and our children will
honor and sustain us for so doing.
	Some of my sisters may say, their poverty
prevents them, or they have so much trouble
they have no heart to stir themselves—St. Paul
says that God dealeth with us as with children
and if we are without trouble or chastisement,
then are we bastards and not the children of
God, for he chastens us for our profit that we
may bring forth fruits of righteousness.
								E. D.


