WHAT IS HAPPINESS.

	We each of us have our own ideas of what
would make us fully happy, and it is right and
proper that we should; for as we are not all
constituted alike, we are scarcely competent to
measure each other's capacity for enjoyment.
When we look around us and reflect that how-
ever much people may possess, however fortu-
nate they may seem, whatever comforts, luxu-
ries, and elegancies they may gather around
them, in the midst of it all there is a lack of
true happiness, we naturally enough turn our
thoughts inward, and ask our own hearts, what
is wanting for happiness.
	All persons should seek in themselves the
instinct, the faculties, and the free develop-
ment of their happiness; and even then they
should know that they will not find any more
than half of what they seek. Gratified sel-
fishness sometimes constitutes half-satisfaction,
without any real solidity, or sufficient elements
of durability; we should render ourselves capa-
ble of happiness and worthy to possess it, by
wisdom, purity of life, and appreciation of the
good and beautiful; order, industry, devoted-
ness and humility are preliminaries to happi-
ness.
	In the world there are many things which
promise the elements of happiness, even when
sapping its very foundation. The voice of flat-
tery if we listen to it can only bring disappoint-
ment, weariness and regret. The gay followers
of fashion, flitting carelessly through their
butterfly existence, willing slaves to the "gold-
en chain" which binds them, are only mo-
mentarily happy; and often there is "a cloud
upon the brow," or "a sigh in the heart," of
the fairest of them. The scholar, the sculptor,
the scientist, and the poet, though they may
achieve grand triumphs of thought and study
may be made almost supremely happy, dazzled
even for a time, by the work of heart, hand
and brain, yet are not wholly satisfied; still
striving to grasp something just beyond their
reach. Ambition, however grand and magnifi-
cent have been its conquests, still leaves its
votaries restless and unhappy. The world-
renowned Caesar, when he had fulfilled "the
vow of his boyhood," and had boasted that
even "when his chariot, should disappear from
the Capitol, his statue be riven from its sphere
and its inscription, "Caesar the Demigod;"
lost, that through all time the ambitious man,
be he statesman, general or scholar would
study his career, and emulate his victories, it
is said, bitterly exclaimed, "Has the indomita-
ble will, the fierce struggle, the unflagging
toil, the blood of five hundred battle fields, the
sack of a thousand cities, brought me but this!
It is a mockery, a dream, a fable, can this be
all!"


You who are young, intelligent and free,
what is wanting for your happiness? You are
inspired with hope, courage, faith in the future,
but are not quite sufficient unto yourselves.
You are too sensible to think that influence, or
"a little brief authority" over others, will
yield permanent happiness; what is it then
that is wanting? Is it love, the force of affection?
There is a relative happiness in it certainly,
but where is the security of love, so infinitely pre-
cious and rare in its completeness, if all around
us there is ill-restrained ardor, faithless friend-
ship and unchaste desire? There is also a hap-
piness in doing good, but then one cannot fail
to see and be stung by the frightful insufficien-
cy of the resources, and the inexhaustible mine
of suffering.
	We might thus enumerate all the elements
of which individual happiness is composed,
and should have a hundred-thousand-fold more
than enough examples and proofs to show, that
if we have not the means of attaining happi-
ness within ourselves, no amount of riches, or
worldly wisdom, no virtue or strength of our
own, no greatness of intellect or heart can con-
fer it. And yet who would find happiness in
self? Humanity is one being, there must be a
voluntary and solid bond between ourselves
and others who compose the society in which
we live; we must love our neighbors as our-
selves, must "do to others as we would wish
them to do to us," truly and not falsely. And
when we reflect how far we fall short of this,
how utterly remote we are from these vital
conditions, we can realize in some small de-
gree, the magnitude of the work we must
achieve before we can attain that happiness
which an exalted soul realizes in self-sacrifice.
	And yet there is a partial happiness within
us, without us, and beyond us; let us exercise
ourselves in the science of waiting; and since
complete happiness seems to be the full devel-
opment of a great plenitude of exalted facul-
ties, cultivate in ourselves, each and all of
these essential tendencies. Resignation for
instance, moderate aspirations, gentle and
pious wisdom, a tender patience, generous for-
bearance, christian Charity, duty with its joys
and sorrows, and as we "cannot drink the sea,
let us be content with the the drops of dew."But after all, this immortal aspiration after
happiness is one of the eternal promises of God
to humanity.
	Truth must be the standard of all happiness.
The Savior when He made His appearance up-
on the earth was clothed with the plain sim-
plicity of truth; armed with the simple yet
all sufficient power of the Gospel. He looked
at things as they were; rebuked the evils and
vices, and plainly declared to men the true
system of greatness and glory. Not only did
His teachings and life abound with facts and
principles which every child could understand,
but He also promised to those who would ac-
cept it, the Comforter, even the Spirit of truth
which it is our blessed privilege to enjoy if we
will live for it; and with the Spirit of God abid-
ing in our hearts, we may be able to so discrimi-
nate between truth and error as to eventually
be guided into all truth, and secure to ourselves
a fruition of eternal happiness.
								B. R.


