HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON OR about the 23rd instant, the company
of immigrants who left Liverpool September
2nd will arrive here. They number about five
hundred and fifty.
	THE PASSENGER train on the Utah Southern
Railroad now leaves this City at 7 a. m.; ar-
rives at 2 p. m.; arrives at Provo at 10.15 a. m.
and leaves there at 10.45 a. m. This change of
time went into effect on the 10th inst.
	ELDER AMA L. Smith has been appointed to
preside over the Sandwich Island Mission in
the place of Elder F. A. Mitchell who will be
released to return home, on the arrival of Elder
Smith at Laie.
	FIVE BOXES, containing over one hundred
varieties of fruit have been sent by the Horti-
cultural Society of this city, to the Pennsylva-
nia Horticultural Society's exhibition, which
opens to-day—Sept. 15th. Our Horticultural
Society deserves congratulations for their
promptness and pains taking in endeavoring to
show of the good effects of home labor in their
line of business.
	UNDER THE supervision of Mr. Henry Grow,
the Warm Spring Bath House is undergoing a
complete change. Many improvements are
being made and additional rooms prepared for
the accommodation of visitors. Zinc, instead
of lead, is being used in painting the bath tubs
and the general wood work of the house, as the


mineral in the spring water has formerly had
the effect of turning the paint black, which, it
is believed this change will prevent.
	DURING THE month of August, 1874, twenty-
one million, four hundred and thirty-six thou-
sand, one hundred and sixty-three pounds of
freight passed over the Utah Central Railroad.
And in the same time, thirty-eight million, six
hundred and eighteen thousand, and forty-
seven pounds of freight passed over the Utah
Southern Railroad. A few years ago, when all
the freighting in this part of the country was
done with ox teams, so much bnsiness might
not have been accomplished in a whole year.
But these are fast times.
	THE FIRST instance, we believe, of ladies be-
ing called to act as jurors at a coroner’s inquest
in this Territory occurred on the 11th inst. It
appears that a young man, named Wm. Fletch-
er was killed at the Moltke mine, Little Cot-
tonwood, on the evening of the 10th; probably
through the premature explosion of a charge.
His body was brought to his father’s residence
in this city where, on the following day, an in-
quest was held. The jury, consisting of Joseph
Warburton, Mrs, Anna King and Mrs. Eliza-
beth Higgs, rendered a verdict in accordance
with the evidence and quite as creditably, so
states a daily paper, as if two of them had not
belonged to the “weaker sex.”


