     BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	We know that modern society looks down
upon us; we are fully aware that they con-
sider us outcasts from their limits; women
destitute of morality and virtue, and totally
ignorant on all subjects connected with re-
finement of feeling and delicacy of senti-
ment; and why? Simply because they do
not understand us. How can they fathom
the abyss of our hearts? How read our
history, or rightly interpret our motives or
our actions?
	It is not my intention at the present time
to enter into details, or undertake to sub-
stantiate Polygamy, (however capable I may
consider myself of doing so,) it would occu-
py too much space in these columns; but my
idea is, to show that it is pure, virtuous and
holy women that sustain Polygamy. Wo-
men entitled to all the respect due them
as wives, mothers, sisters and friends;
brave, true-hearted and much-enduring.
Not in any sense of the word similar to the
class referred to by the writer who does us
such great honor, (in his opinion,) when he
says, “Polygamy makes comparatively re-
spectable women, of girls who might other-
wise have been prostitutes.” The reason
why he thinks that is because he don’t
know anything about it; if he did he would
know that such girls “as might otherwise
have been prostitutes,” would not live in
Polygamy, if by any mischance or inapti-
tude of places they should ever get into it,
they would very soon tire of it, and eventu-
ally, heedless of all promises, covenants or
ceremonies, free themselves, as many have
done; not because they were starved or mis-
treated, but because they did not possess
goodness, purity, integrity and principle
enough to endure unto the end.
	I cannot bear to hear those women, who
have in all purity of heart and soul, helped
to establish this holy order, instituted by
divine revelation, spoken reproachfully of,
without lifting my voice to attest to their
truthfulness, earnest sincerity and virtue.
And I feel myself justified in saying, no
woman who is not innately pure and strictly
virtuous and moral, will live in Polygamy
any length of time.
	Who were the women who first stepped
forth to herald in this unpopular, “unchris-
tianized and uncivilized principle, this
species of barbarism?” (so called.) They
were most of them daughters of the Puri-
tans, girls born, reared and educated in
New England; brought up to look with hor-
ror upon any breach of decorum or propri-
ety; girls possessed of natural intelligence
and educational attainments sufficient to
qualify them for “polite society” in common
parlance. Think you with their unsullied
reputation, their unblemished lives, their
purity of training, they were not each one
of them, individually and identically a
heroine? And if their names are not writ-
ten in history and transmitted to posterity,
they ought to be engraven imperishably in
the memory of every Latter-day Saint.
	They stood forth as it were alone, fearless
for the truth, none to defend or acknowl-
edge them. They laid all upon the altar
of their faith, gave all to their religion.
They were despised, evil spoken of, and
sneered at on every hand. Think you they
would do this from impure and ignoble
motives? and yet quite self-helpful, self-
denying, with no sweet incense of flattery
or admiration, no happy despotism of love,
only the safe shadow, the plain, straight,
level road of duty, and a consciousness of
[next column]
right; the constant cutting down and root-
ing up, of all those vain and selfish longings,
which grow sooner or later into bitterness
and disappointment; with only the compan-
ionship of sweet and noble thoughts of high
and holy tendencies, of the sublimity of
a grand culminating era in human progress,
they lived and struggled heroically on.
	Think you they could have been influ-
enced to live such lives of self-sacrifice, to
have the reproaches, slanders and cruelties,
of those they held dear and sacred, if the
Lord had not helped, guided and inspired
them by His Holy Spirit? If they had not
been praying women? And after more
than thirty years of patient endurance, hav-
ing passed through varieties of trials, ex-
posure and calumny, they are awarded this
fitting encomium of praise, "they might
otherwise have been prostitutes," and the
writer says, the Mormons claim for Polyga-
my this merit. Thank God there is another
Judge, a higher court, a Supreme Tribunal.
	I know that we are looked upon as weak-
minded and half-witted if we do not receive
a certain amount of attention from a man;
and the conclusion is immediately drawn
(by our neighbors at least) that our husbands
do not love us, and consequently, we being
unnoticed, unloved and unattended, ought
to drop out of existence.
	Is there then nothing worth living for,
but to be petted, humored and caressed, by
a man? That is all very well as far as it goes,
but that man is the only thing in existence
worth living for I fail to see. All honor and
reverence to good men; but they and their
attentions are not the only sources of hap-
piness on the earth, and need not fill up
every thought of woman. And when men
see that women can exist without their be
ing constantly at hand, that they can
learn to be self-reliant or depend upon
each other for more or less happiness, it
will perhaps take a little of the conceit out
of some of them.
	To my mind one great fault in “Wood-
hull’s Lecture” here, was, that while pro-
fessing to hold forth for Women’s Rights,
she spoke so disparageingly of the women
themselves; classing them all together as
weak, ignorant, vain and silly, slaves to
dress, to fashion and to men, making no
exception, unless, indeed, herself.
	I believe in women, especially thinking
women. Are we human beings, rational
and accountable, and yet permit to lie dor-
mant the highest faculty of our nature—
thought? Alas we see it every day! But
there is a day dawning when we will be
better understood, if not appreciated; and
every woman in Utah, who has the interest
of her sex at heart, should exert her utmost
influence to extend the circulation of the
EXPONENT;for wherever it finds its way,into
whatever home, village or town it pene-
trates there will thought be awakened,
there will woman begin to feel and under-
stand that there is something elevating
and inspiring, worth living for, worthy of
attainment, even though their husbands do
not pet them, and spend their whole time
and talents, and exhaust the whole Eng-
lish vocabulary in caressing them. And
though we may be held in ignominy and
disgrace by modern society, and its presi-
ding genius, “Mrs, Gundy,” or worse still ac-
cording to her verdict, be that poorest of all
creatures, “an unloved wife,” yet if we
live an unsullied life, if our reputation in
the sight of heaven is spotless, if we pos-
sess that best of all bosom-companions, a
clear conscience, we invest ourselves with
dignity and self-respect, and we will eventu-
ally receive all that our hearts most crave,
[next column]
most long for, and most desire, even a ful-
ness of glory. Every weakness we over-
come, every temptation we gain victory
over, brings us nearer perfection. Why, ah
why, then should we shrink from trials,
when we know they are only so many sure
steps taken towards our advancement in the
onward and upward path? Let us not fal-
ter by the wayside but, stimulating,
strengthening, encouraging and sympathiz-
ing with each other, continue to cultivate
and improve our reasoning and reflecting
faculties, not only to add to our happiness
here, but our eternal felicity hereafter.
That it may not be said of any of us, in that
day when all must give an account, that we
neglected to improve the talent committed
to our care.
	How to live, how to treat one another,
and how to trust in God in matters beyond
our mortal comprehension, these are lessons
for us to learn; our talents are given us to
improve till our Lord comes, and he or she
that neglects,—who shall say to such “Not
Guilty?"
	Salt Lake City, 1874.


