H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
storey Brick Store;
First South St., 1/2 block west of co-op. Corner.
H. Wallace
Has the best, large t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
DOCTOR CROCKWELL
Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyou ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent. 
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.
CLUB RATES.
Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the 
Exponent and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies: 1 year with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club.								$18.00
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
the club,	-	-	-	-	- 				20 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50							34.00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, han-
	somley framed, selling price $4	-	- 	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the Ex-
ponent favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


﻿Woman's Exponent.
