REPORTER'S RAMBLINGS.

	Since our last, we have been rambling in
pursuit of appetite for food to lubricate the
wheels of thought and strengthen the mus-
cles for labor. Our note of
			PROVO
is one of pleasant remembrances where we
spent a few days of unalloyed pleasure with
kindest friends of former days. Flowers,
fruits and social converse made time’s flight
almost imperceptible. On the day of our
departure we “done” the great public at-
traction, the Woolen Factory and the prac-
tical machinist, Mr. Lowery made us appre-
ciate the value of applied skill, good ma-
chinery and artistic taste in the production
of finer and more delicately tinted fabrics
than we had supposed could be produced in
the Territory. There is an extensive tailor-
ing department connected with the factory.
From here we started for the railway cars;
our way was beset with a hospitable lunch
which beguiled us while time sped on with
its accustomed regardlessness and we were
just two minutes too late for the train. O!
too late for the train!
			AT FIVE P. M.
we took the express train for American
Fork where we arrived in time to listen to
an earnest and instructive discourse by
Pres. A. O. Smoot. 
		THE NEXT MORNING,
by invitation, we accompanied friends in a
pleasant drive to Alpine, distant six miles.
The location of this thrifty little town is
peculiarly attractive, nestling, as it were,
under the brow of a mountain; with crystal
streams meandering here and there furnish-
ing mill-power, fish-ponds, churn-power, and
numerous other attractions and convenien-
ces. There is a degree of neatness and or-
der perceptible in and around Alpine that
bears resemblance to a well regulated mili-
tary post. The most pretentious edifice is
the Church which is large and commodious;
and when completed it will be an elegant
structure. Here, much, if not most of the
oratorical talent of Utah Co. was assembled
and exercised on the subject of United in-


terests, which seems the absorbing topic in
all our borders. We left Alpine with a sin-
cere desire that its hospitable inhabitants
might live long and be happy; that its fish
might increase and grow larger; and that
its strawberries might never be like our ap-
ples, wormey—here we pause to say that 
like "Utania" of the "Herald" we have a 
painful inspiration that causes us to join the
army to do battle against the dog, the poison
dog. Let them all be sent to Bergh's cor-
ral. 							S.M.K.


