     WALKS, TALKS AND HINTS.

			ST. GEORGE, Sept. 2nd, 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I shall be pardoned for lack of greater
promptness, when I tell you how very busy
I have been for the last month, more among
the fruit than the lovely flowers, drying,
canning, preserving and pickling. First
peaches, then apples, pears, plums, necta-
rines and grapes; each in their turn I have
had to manipulate, preparing not only a
supply for future family use but some to
spare, for sale. You must also know I am
quite a Bee-Keeper and have an apiary I
am not ashamed of, which I take much plea-
sure in caring for. This not only gives me
more care and labor, but all the honey our
little family needs. And how easy it is
paid for; just think, a swarm of bees to start
with, a few hives, a bee journal or two, an
interesting study, a few hours every week,
—result, all the delicious honey we desire,
some to spare and a hundred per cent. in-
crease every year. I wonder a hundred
times a month, why every sensible sister or
housekeeper don't have bees and thus have
a plenty of clear delicious honey, amuse-
ment for spare hours and a hundred per
cent. profit. In fact, from my own experi-
ence, I see no reason why female labor and
skill may not be just as successful in Bee-
keeping, as that of the sterner sex; for it is
light, interesting, clean, sweet and  profita-
ble. Now are not these advantages enough?
But I have strayed from my subject, of put-
ting in a good, strong excuse. Well be-
sides all I have named; Willie, the darling!
has been sick—poor little fellow, cutting a
whole mouthful of teeth and O! the trouble
of the mother—day and night—any min-
ute—any hour—well "you know how it is
yourself" or will, perhaps, so I refrain; and
suggest to those who have never tried it, to
select good white-fleshed, sweet apples,
peal, quarter and core; now take two lbs. of
white sugar to three of apples thus prepared
and make, in the usual way, into a most
beautiful preserve, seasoning with any spice
desired. To make a delicious drink boil
your cider in a clean, bright brass or copper,
four gallons to one, and put it away in a
cellar, in bottles, jug or keg; and when used
put a spoonful or two in a glass of water.
It makes a cheap, nice and wholesome bev-
erage.
	Yesterday a sister called and on seeing
my Geraniums, healthy and in blossom,
complained of hers as sickly and without
bloom. I asked her, "Have you watered
them regularly?" "O yes," she said, "twice
a day." "And have you not given them
too much?" I said. "No," she replied, "I
have been very careful." "Well," said I,
'isn't the pot too small for the plant, or
dosn't it want new fresh earth, or fertiliz-
ing?" "Well," she said, "there may be
something in that, for they have been a
year in the same pot and nothing but water
given them." "Well," said I, "no wonder
your plants are yellow and sickly; how
would you like to be crammed into a small
room for a whole year without ventilation?
You must turn the plants out, give them
larger pots, good rich soil and in hot
weather keep them in some shade, like an
arbor, where they can get plenty of light
and air and but little sunshine, and then,
once a month feed them liquid manure,
thus: take an old pan or bucket, fill with
well rotted, fine, old manure from the sheep
fold, cow shed or hen coop; pour on plenty
of water and, after soaking a day, water
your plants with it a few times. Many a
plant gets poor and sickly for want of this
treatment—There, Willie calls!
