				[CONTINUED.]

	Here are mothers. Who give the key to the
nations of the earth with regard to their feel-
ings, pride, prejudices; their religion, habits
and customs, and, I may say, who, in a great
degree, govern, that lay the foundation for the
ability that is exhibited among the nations of 
men? It is the mothers. Who have laid the
foundations in the hearts of children to prepare
them to be great and good men? It is not the 
fathers--it is the mothers. It is like the say-
ing of the Savior with regard to the poor.
Speaking to his disciples. he says "For the 
poor always ye have with you, but me ye have
not always." Now the children are always
with the mother, and the mother is always
with the children, but the father they have not.
He is in the field, at his work; and the mother
is all the time making impressions upon the
minds of the children. Permit me here to say,
mothers, and my sisters, you who are young,
it will do you good if you will only observe it.
You see, hear and witness a good deal of con-
tention among children--some of you do, if
not all—and I will give you a few words with
regard to your future lives, that you may have
children that are not contentious, not quarrel-
some. Always be good-natured yourselves, is
the first step. Never allow yourselves to be-
come out of temper and get fretful. Why,
mother says, "this is a very mischievous little
boy or little girl." What do you see? That
amount of vitality in those little children that
they cannot be still. If they cannot do any-
thing else they will tip over the chairs, cut up
and pull away at anything to raise a row. They
are so full of life that they cannot contain
themselves; and they are something like our-
selves—boys. They have so much vitality in
them that their bones fairly ache with strength.
They have such an amount of vitality, life,
strength and activity, that they must dispose
of them; and the young ones will contend with 
each other. Do not be out of temper yourselves.
Always sympathize with them and soothe
them. Be mild and pleasant. If you see a 
child with knives and forks, playing with them,
it might put out its eyes. It will not do to give
it a hammer and a lookinglass. What will you
do? I am a person of experience, and know
how to deal with children. If the child has in 
its hand that which it should not have, let the
mother or the father, or whoever has charge of
the child or has the right, take such things from
it, and put them away where they belong. Now,
mother, listen to this—never ask a child to
give up that which it should not have. Step
up kindly and put the article where it be-
longs. The child will not say anything. A lit-
tle circumstance took place in Salt Lake City.
I had busine[-]s in a house where I had under-
stood there had been considerable trouble occa
sionally; and the mother would not let the
father speak to the children, to chastise them

[Column 2]
I went into the house and talked to the man.
The lady came in, and sat down. I pretty soon
saw a little girl, about two years old, with a 
top thimble in her mouth, sucking it. I went
up to the girl, took the thimble from her and
put it on the mantle shelf. Says I to the moth-
er—"You must not allow the child to have this
thing; if it should go into the stomach it will
decay." The man looked at me as if he would
faint away. He was a large man, but I sup-
pose he never attempted to say such a thing to
his wife in his life. I said it; and the mother
was so confounded that she did not say a word;
and it would not have done her any good if she
had. Now, if you will mind this--you bring
up your children correctly, and teach them
those principles and habits which are correct
and you will find that you will improve very
materially in your families. If you find that
the children are cruel, do not contend with
them, soothe them, and invite those who
through accident, have injured a little sister to
pity her. "You have accidentally hurt your
little sister, go and kiss her." By taking this
course you will have good children, and they
will not contend with each other. I am talk-
ing to you of that which I know. I have had
an experience in these matters.
	I will relate a little incident that occurred in
my own family. A little boy about three and 
a half years old was very ill. His mother
would feed him bread and milk, or whatever he
wished. As soon as he could stand by her,
every day he wanted his bread and milk. Just
as soon as he had got what he wanted, he would
throw up his hand, and away went the basin
to the floor. His mother did not know what to 
do. Said I, "If you will do just as I tell you, I
will tell you what to do. The next time you 
sit down to feed this little boy, when he has
got through he will knock the dish out of your
hand." Said I, "Lean him against the chair,
do not say one word to him, go to your work,
pay no attention to him whatever." She did
so. The little fellow stood there, looked at her,
watched her; then he would look at the basin
and the spoon, watch his mother, and look at
the basin and the spoon again. By and by he
got down and crept along the floor and climbed
up to the chair, and then set the basin on the
table, and crept until he got the spoon and put
it on the table. He never tried to knock that
dish out of her hand again. Now she might
have whipped him and injured him, as a great
many would have done; but if they know what
to do, they can correct the child without vio
lence.
			[To be continued]


