BY HANNAH T. KING.

	In my observations in daily life on charac-
ter I have particularly noted the want of
honor among the generality of people in the
small affairs of life, even those who have
been liberally educated, from whom we
have a right to expect all that constitutes a
true lady or gentleman. Where we find
honor is wanting in a character a feeling of
contempt at once springs up and the mer-
cury in our heart's glass runs down, perhaps
below zero! If we see honor in small things
it is a guarantee that it will be exercised
in matters of importance. Our simple
word, we should make a point of duty to
perform and endorse by action. Trifles
shew character often more than great ac-
tions, as straws show which way the wind
blows; were honor and order strictly obeyed
we should have much less need of law; I
will illustrate this by saying in England,
where horse-racing has been, time imme-
morial, a national entertainment, and large
sums of money are lost and won, and being
a species of gambling, the law does not per-
mit debts incurred therein to be recovered
by it, it is therefore thrown upon honor,
and those who fail to meet such debts, are
branded as "black-legs" and never permit-
ted to enter the race course again, even
though he were a prince of the royal fam-
ily of England. Another instance where
honor was beautifully exemplified, was in the
life of the great Richard Brinsley Sheridan
who was of the nobility of England, but of
very small fortune; he possessed talents of
the highest order, as a statesman and ora-
tor, brilliant and beloved as an associate
and friend, and was courted by the highest
and greatest; but poverty was his bane, for
his position obliged him to live expensive-
ly. Byron says he once saw him shed tears
and say he never had a shilling to call his
own; of course he was often in debt, and
one day a tradesman called, and requested
to see him, the footman carried his request
to his master, who told him to show him


up; Sheridan was writing as he entered,
and presented his bill of some hundred
pounds, Sheridan ran his eye over the pa-
per, and candidly said, I am unable to pay
this; I have not the money; "Pardon me
Sir," said the man of business respectfully,
"but I perceive you have written a cheque
for a higher sum than my bill," "That is
true" answered Sheridan, "but this is a
debt of honor!" The tradesman instantly
tore his bill into shreds, saying, now sir,
mine is a debt of honor!" All readers will
remember Byron's inimitable monody on
the death of this renowned man, concluding:
"Nature made but one such a man, and
broke the die in molding Sheridan." These
cases will illustrate the dignity of honor.
and men and women who are careful to ob-
serve it are of a far higher type than those
who neglect it. Scripture also in its brief
but ever impressive language says, "Whoso
sweareth to his neighbor and disappointeth
him not, though it be to his own hindrance,
shall not fall." Everything that has truth
in it belongs to the Saints of Latter-days.
We can read the lives of the great and the
noble, both men and women, and learn les-
sons of importance from them, even though
some of them were pagans, their characters
were so high and noble in tone that they
stood as burning and shining lights to the
world" for unknown to them they were led
by the hand of their Maker, "though un-
seen, and guided by His voice."


