	TWELFTH WARD, S. L. CITY, Nov. 13.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Synopsis of the minutes of the re-organ-
ization meeting of the Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association. The meeting was
called to order by the President Romania
B. Pratt; singing by the choir, reading of
minutes, etc.
	There were several members of other
wards present among whom were Sisters
E. A. Whitney, M. I. Horne, E. R. Snow,
Z. D. Young and many other prominent sis-
ters of the Relief Society, and Elder Mi-
lando Pratt. Remarks were first made by
President Romania B. Pratt. She was happy
to have the privilege of attending to-day
and meeting with those assembled, she
hoped the young ladies would combine to
make the meetings interesting and for one
she would do her best. Mrs. Horne spoke
of the advantages to be gained from these
associations, and gave some excellent ad-
vice to her hearers. She dwelt most es-
pecially on the subject of the youth of our
Church that parents should be careful in 
the training of their children, to bring them
up in the paths of truth and virtue, and
they should take pains to win the confi-
dence of their offspring, thereby gain-
ing a great reward; more rests with the
mother than she generally realizes, and it
is her duty to watch her own children,from
their earliest infancy, to the time when
they shall know and do for themselves. 
And in return for all the kindness and care
bestowed upon them, shall the girls and
boys give nothing? They are in a position
to do a great work, and the young ladies
do not realize to the fullest extent, the
privileges they have in meeting together
and talking to each other, nor do they ap-
preciate it as they should. Young ladies 
should choose their company and in so do-
ing be careful in their selections; another

[Column 2]

thing, they should always let their parents
know where and with whom they are asso-
ciating. The subject of gathering was al-
so touched upon by Mrs. Horne and several
other things were alluded to. Sister Zina
D. Young said that the women have a work
to perform which is already begun, and we
must be up and doing, and be diligent and
true helpmeets to our husbands and fathers.
The organizations among the women in
this church were instituted by the Lord.
There were people right here in our midst
who would speak disrespectfully of Celes-
tial Marriage, but they had a darkness in
their minds which must sometime be
cleared away; said many other good things.
Miss E. R. Snow said she felt honored to
have the privilege of associating with the
saints. Before arising, she had experien-
ced a great variety of feelings. The ques-
tion arose in her mind, “What were we
here for? And the answer "For the promo-
tion of the welfare of the young," speedily
followed. She thought there should have
been at least one hundred and fifty of the
brethren here, and felt to bless the one
brother who had attended. Have the men
no interest in the welfare of the young! If
it had been a cattle show, they would have
turned out in full force. She had known as
many as one hundred and fifty brethren to
attend one of the sisters meetings; she said
there is an apathy on the part, not only of
the fathers, but the mothers, in regard to
the position of the young. She told the
young sisters it was their privilege to com-
mune with God; to realize that they were
born to be Saviors on Mt. Zion. She said God
was calling on the sisters in unison with the
brethren to do what he has been calling on
the saints to perform for years, and they
want the assistance of the young sisters.
When called before the Holy Tribunal, she
added, will we think of the pleasure we
enjoyed in this world, or will we consider
the good we have or might have done?
She said a record is kept by some one be-
sides your secretary here; no matter how
accurately she writes your minutes, it is all
put down in another book. Young sisters,
take care of your health, of your bodies,
but do not spend all for these, spare some
time in feeding your souls. And now, no
matter how good you are, begin from to-day
and live for God. This organization of
young ladies was revealed by the Lord.
Sister Whitney sung a song of Zion. Mrs.
E. B. Wells said she thought there were
some women in the Gentile world who were
trying to reform society, but they had not
the advantages with which we were bless-
ed, however more will be required of us;
because we have had opportunities that
others have not. We had a more systematic
organization, on a more permanent found-
ation.
	Elder Milando Pratt made some very
good remarks. He said he had been much
interested in the proceedings this afternoon,
and was pleased with the privilege of hear-
ing the sisters speak. He related some of
his experience while on a mission.
	Mrs. Pratt arose and said she had felt
God's spirit burning in her bosom, and
thought we all had. Said it had been
moved and seconded that the name of the
society be changed to Y. L. M. I. A. The
vote was unanimous. It was also moved
seconded and carried that Misses Josephine
Young and Elizabeth Kingsbury be accept-
ed as fifth and sixth counselors to the presi-
dent of this society.
	Meeting adjourned, and closed with usual
exercises.
	MAMIE YOUNG, Secretary.


