	THE MOTHER'S DOMINION.

	"A nurse," to take care of my Treasures!
		No! cousin, I could not agree
	To grant to another the pleasures
		Which God has intended for me.
	"A girl just to take them out walking?"
		Why, I need, myself, the fresh air;
	And while we're thus socially talking,
		It's no task to watch them with care.

	My "talents need more cultivation:"
		Well, yes—but I sometimes reflect;
	And think that my home-education
		Has no cause to complain of neglect.
	I read and seek daily for knowledge,
		And hope, as a mother and wife,
	To prepare my own offspring for college,
		Or to fill worthy stations in life.

	True, I cannot study forever,
		Like the school girl who has but her book,
	But I'm striving as well, to be clever,
		As housekeeper, seamstress and cook.
	Yet all else I would freely surrender,
		Rooms, toilet, pantry and purse.
	Ere my darlings, so precious and tender,
		I'd leave to the care of a nurse.

	"With another I'll change"—Pretty cousin,
		You mistake, and perhaps you may blame:
	But should I have ten or a dozen,
		I hope you'll still find me the same;
	Except I become still more careful,
		More diligent, patient and just;
	More willing to serve and more prayerful,
		For th' souls which God gives me in trust.

	Oft times it is all that a mother
		Can do, to be wise with her own;
	Should she trust her pure gems with another,
		Whose feelings and traits are unknown?
	'Twere e'en better that calls be rejected,
		Though friendship be weakened or spoiled,
	Than an innocent child be neglected,
		Or one little spirit be soiled.

	I know those who give more attention
		To fashion, and things of that kind;
	But I keep for myself a prevention
		Of this fault, by bearing in mind
	The fact when we enter death's portal,
		such pleasures no longer we'll claim;
	But the souls of my babes are immortal,
		And will live to my glory, or shame.

	Dear cousin, when you are a mother,
		You'll see then, the same as I see;
	If faithful, you never can smother
		Such thoughts as you've wakened in me.
	You may yield to another's opinion,
		The arrangement of table or shelf;
	But the CHILDREN, the mother's dominion,
		You will choose to look after yourself.
											LULA.
S. L. City, Nov. 21st, 1877.

[Column 2]
not say to the hand I have no need of th[-]e,
nor the head to the feet I have no need of
you. Even those members which seem
most feeble in the human frame are necessa-
ry, and so," as the Apostle continues, "is
the case with the church or body of Christ."
We are all necessary, howe'er feeble in un-
derstanding; and as you say we must pro-
gress—onward and upward!
	Aunt Em, how often I have wished of
late that I might become a blessing and a
benefactor to my people. It constantly oc-
cupies my thoughts and is always men-
tioned in my prayers. What a comfort it
must be to declining age, and to the last
hours of the dying man, to know that his
name will live after him in the hearts of
his cotemporaries and generations then un-
born. Not as the hero of a thousand battle-
fields, who "wades through slaughter to a
throne," whose wreath of glory is stained
with the blood of innocence, and whose
song of triumph mingles with the groans of
the dying and is echoed by the curses of pos-
terity; nor as the noisy political demagogue
who prostitutes his talents and the office to
which hypocrisy and an over-credulous pub-
lic has lifted him, to self-aggrandizement
and the subversion of the rights of his
fellowmen; nor in any walk in life as one
who works for nought but wealth and popu-
larity; but as the public benefactor, the
votary of benevolence, the man of the peo-
ple, who spends his life, energies, and men-
tal endowments for the advancement and
salvation of his fellow creatures. He is
the true hero, and the only one whose name
will survive the resurrection morn. All
else is of the earth, earthy, and will crum-
ble at the sound of the trump that bespeaks
its dissolution. Virtue alone will live for-
ever, and grow brighter with its age. Your
remarks on the future of Zion I appreciate
to the uttermost. We have a glorious his-
tory before us, an era for which we must
prepare. Would that we all could see the
fact as a few do! For taken throughout, in
view of the blessed privileges awaiting us,
and our superior advantages over the entire
outer world, we are criminally careless and
ignorant. Especially is this the case with
the young. They know nothing of their
true position—I now speak from my per-
sonal experience before a merciful Provi-
dence opened my eyes to the truth. There
are hundreds of them right in our own city
who are just the same as I was. Self-con-
ceited, wilful and irreverent, studying
everything and learning nothing, without a
care for the present or a hope for the future,
so far as concerns eternal salvation. This
state of things cannot exist much longer;
the time is too far spent. God will not
countenance it. It devolves as a solemn
duty upon parents, teachers and employers,
together with all who are now rescued from
the dangerous sloughs of sloth and infidel-
ity, to join their efforts for the redemption
of their brethren, children and friends.
The youth of Zion must reform, and God
grant it speedily. Every Saint should be a
missionary, for of a surety the harvest is
great and the laborers but few. "Awake,
awake! put on thy strength, O Zion; put
on thy beautiful garments. Shake thyself
from the dust; loose thyself from the bands
of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion."
	I have filled two public appointments in
Kirtland village. I am now staying at
Uncle Sam's, and have done considerable
exhorting by the fireside, wherever chances
were presented, but I am not encouraged to
believe my efforts were productive of any
manifest benefit, save in one or two in-
stances, and even these are conjectural
merely.

[Column 3]
	I like the idea of a home literature. 'Tis
pleasant to think of what the next decade
may bring forth, though, as you say, it re-
quires pecuniary assistance.
	I shall return to Elyria within a month.
Have not seen an EXPONENT for two months,
but suppose they are all awaiting me in
Elyria. If you write soon address Mentor;
Lake Co, O.; otherwise Elyria, as hereto-
fore.
	Yours very truly,			ORT.


