REPORT OF FIRST ANNUAL MEETING.

President Mrs. E. B. Wells presiding.
Mrs. E. Howard was nominated and accept-
ed as secretary pro tem.  President John Tay-
lor, Bishop Edward Hunter, Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. Phebe Wood-
ruff, Mrs. E. A. Whitney, Mrs. M. I. Horne,
Mrs. Zina D. Young and a large congregation
of ladies of this city and near localities were 
present.  An annual report of the quantiy of 
grain stored was read by the secretary.  Re-
marks made by Bishop Hunter:  "It has been
said that bread is the staff of life.  When we
first came to these valleys, and indeed since
then, we have suffered for the want of it.
We don't want to go through so severe a trial
again; at all times we should have wheat on
hand.  The Lord has been merciful to us;
He has blessed us with much grain, and 
much of it has been wasted. but in the fu-
ture I hope we will be more careful of what
the Lord has so abundantly blessed us with.
Our Relief Societies are doing much good;
they have saved much suffering, and have
been a great help to the Bishops.  They
have the Priesthood--a portion of priest-
hood rests upon the sisters.  They are do-
ing a good work, and particularly the stor-
ing of grain is commendable.  May you
continue and succeed in your work."
 Remarks by President John Taylor: "I
am pleased to have the opportunity of meet-
ing with the sisters, and I am also glad to 
make a few remarks.  I often think the la-
bors of the sisters are not sufficiently appre-
ciated.  I look upon it that the works of the
sisters are as great in their sphere, as the
works of brethren are in theirs.  We
are mutually dependent one on the other.
 The sisters are doing an important work
in their Relief Societies; they are quite
an assistance to the Bishops, they are more
capable of entering into the feelings of 
women than men are, and there are many
little things that are essential that they
can perform much better, and are more
appropriate to their sphere.  They are use-
ful in these organizations in trying to ele-
vate the state of society, in our morals, in 
our deportment, in our actions, in our dress,
in our governing families, and many other
things in the sphere they occupy.  I know
it is a delicate thing to speak of things that
are wrong in households, or families, but in
your associations they can be considered and
try to rectify them.  For instance, there
are some people who do not know how to
use the things they are in possession of;
they are not capable of taking care of what
is put into their hands; take two families
with the same income, and you will find
quite a difference in their management; in 
one the table will not be so clean and tidy
as it should be; the bread will not be prop-
erly made, and the whole place will be
rather repulsive to one of different habits.
The other will be neat, clean, wholesome,
everything in order, and you will feel per-
fectly at home there; therefore, if we could
use an influence to make our homes clean,
neat, tidy, pleasant and cheerful we would
be doing a good work.
We want to educate our youth, to a better
and more elevated state than they are in 
at present.  A little tact, a little more por-
suasion will help our young people to do 
better; let us watch over our young sisters
and not let them associate with company
not fit for them to keep; but lead them, in-
struct them, that they may grow to be hon
orable, good, pure useful women in the 
Kingdom of God.  There are none of us 
but what need instruction, and the great ad-
vantage is in feeling right ourselves which 
we cannot do without the guidance of the 
Lord.  He will help us to instruct each oth-
er and to promote each other's welfare.
I consider this gathering and storing of 
wheat as of great importance.  I am pleased
to find that you have succeeded as well as
you have, yet you have not a great deal,
considering the size of the Territory, but 
you will increase; it puts me in mind of the 
history of Joseph; it took seven years in 
that day to prepare for the seven years that 
was to come; we have not got any defined
time but we will have to keep pace with 
the growth of our families, which you know
are increasing rapidly.  I will tell you an 
anecdote I read somewhere."  President
Taylor then related an anecdote, which il-
lustrated woman's intuition in the affairs of 
life.
"If you ladies can help us and succeed in 
saving wheat for a case of emergency, it 
will be one of the greatest acts of state-
manship that could occur.  We have been 
careless, we did not save our wheat as we 
should have done, and now if the sisters
take heed to these things the men will find
out that their wives have been wise in doing 
this thing according to counsel.  The ladies
are generally considered the weaker and 
most beautiful sex; but if we all do our part
we will be in a position to receive the bless-
ings of the Lord.  I am pleased to see that 
our young sisters are taking an active part
in this work.  Let us improve in our man-
ners, improve in sisterly and brotherly feel-
ing and in all that will make us feel that 
we are an integral part of the Kingdom of
God.  May God bless you and lead you in 
the paths of life.  Amen."
[To be continued.]


