	SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 31st, 1877.
	Minutes of a Special Meeting of the
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association,
held in the Eighth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Oct. 31st, 1877.
	Usual opening exercises; minutes read
and accepted.  By invitation of Counselor
Sarah Jane Chamberlain, Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard made some very good remarks, of
which the following is a synopsis:  "I am
well satisfied with your minutes, and am
glad to see so many young ladies present.
I advise the young to read church works.
You will yet see the day when you will be
thankful for these meetings.  We should
try to help in all home industries; we, as 
Latter-day Saints, should study economy;
we should not spend so much time and 
money on the foolish fashions, but save our
means to help build up the kingdom of
God."
	Mrs. M. I. Horne: " I am pleased to meet
with  you, and feel to thank my Heavenly
Father for his protecting care over us. I
advise you to watch and pray, and associate
with those who act from good principles;
there is a warfare before us, and we can
choose good or evil; if we are humble and
prayerful we will be able to conquer all
things.  Every one who is before me ought
to have a testimony of this work.  We are
not like the world, for with our husbands
we hold a portion of the priesthood; if we 
do not qualify ourselves, we cannot enter
the presence of our Father; it would not 
be appropriate or consistent if our husbands
were intelligent and we were the reverse.
The Lord gives us nothing to waste, and if 
we are wise we will dress neat and plain."
Mrs. Horne also spoke of the fault finding
spirit there is with those who do not try to 
live their religion.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney: " I feel at home in 
this meeting.  At the late Conference,
President Taylor said that every woman
should have a membership in the Relief
Society and in these Mutual Improvement
Associations.  Singing is a part of our re-
ligion, and I have been very much edified
with the singing this afternoon."  She 
spoke of obedience to parents, and the
principle of plural marriage, and made
other very interesting remarks.
	 Mrs. Zina Y. Williams: "I did not expect
to be called upon to-day.  Plural marriage
and the United Order should be taught at 
home by the  many trails attending it, but we
gain many blessings through it."  Spoke of 
the word of wisdom and plain living; we 
will live longer and be brighter stars in
Zion if we study the laws of nature.
	Bishop E. F. Sheets: "I feel to endorse
all that has been advanced by my sisters
this afternoon, and hope that each one will
bear it in mind and improve thereby."  It 
was moved and seconded to change the
name of our Society from Retrenchment to
Mutual Improvement Association.  Sisters
E. G. Barney and E. Snell were chosen as
Counselors. President Mary Leaver said 
she approved of what had been said.  She 
then invited the guests, the members of
the Association and the officers of the Re-
lief Society to partake of a supper at the 
Bishop's house after meeting.  Adjourned
for two weeks.  Benediction by Elder
Isaac Brockbank.
			MRS. M. S. LEAVER, President
			MISS S. A. HAWKINS, Secretary.


[Column 1]
SANTAQUIN, Nov. 4, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Ninth Annual Meeting on 
Sept. 6th, 1877. Our reports were all read,
showing that we had received during the
year, $222, 73; disbursed during the year
to charitable and other needful purposes,
$120,29, leaving a balance of $102, 44. The
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation held their 4th Annual Meeting at
the same time. Their reports were very
favorable. Our meeting was addressed by
Bishop George Halladay, and President E.
J. Stickney on matters pertaining to our
temporal as well as spiritual welfare. All
present seemed united and a good spirit
prevailed.
	Death has taken away one of our sisters,
Sarah Maria Wall. She died Oct. 27, 1877,
with the heart disease, aged 51 years and 8
months. She was a member of the choir,
a teacher in the Sunday School and a teach-
er in the Relief Society. All of these offices
she ever faithfully filled. She bore the tri-
als of life as a true woman and mother in
Israel should, being loving and kind to all
with whom she associated. She has left a
husband, five children, and a large circle of
friends to mourn her loss. She died as she
had lived a true Latter-day Saint.

[Column 2]
	The majority of the sisters are interested
in Storing Grain, according to the counsel
given by our beloved President Brigham
Young. We are striving in our weak way,
to obey the counsel of those placed over us,
and try to do all the good we can in helping
to build temples, taking care of the poor,
etc. We deeply mourn the loss of our be-
loved Prophet Brigham Young, and truly
sympathize with his family in their bereave-
ment.
	With the best of wishes for yourself and
our valuable paper, we remain your sisters
etc.	E. J. STICKNEY, President,
	ELIZABETH CARTER, Secretary.

