	LETTER III.

	Tread softly through the halls of olden time,
	List to the music of the echoes there—
	Reverberating solemn and sublime,
	Mellow'd in cadence yet in sweetness rare.
	
	Beautiful thoughts are oft awakened by
some rude scene of Nature's decay, or per-
chance some old sentiment is revived by
listening to "a song of other days." It
strikes a sympathetic chord in the soul, and
anon the harp once properly attuned to the
harmonies of life, but which has long been
hung upon the willows, is inadvertently
tonched and for a moment sends forth its
notes again in a minor key, corresponding
to the inner music of the soul. It brings
back the pleasure of the time when all un-
conscious of the future we reveled in the
very luxury of innocence and mirth. When
our eyes opened to all that was lovable
around us, and our hearts were impulsively
susceptible to tender emotions, when we
drank first at the fountain of love and be-
lieved in its ideal visions. Years tone
down much of the enthusiasm of the young;
a calmer and more pathetic feeling takes
the place of the exuberance of spirits, but
yet there is a subdued and cultivated senti-
ment that is still in keeping with the true
elements of life.
	We should have charity for one another.
It is well to judge carefully, for how can
one tell what another may have had to en-
dure? We make but sorry judges in our
own weakness; life is so unlike in its
phases, and all have their own peculiar ex-
periences, which act upon them according
to their circumstances and surroundings;
and the condition of the person mentally,

[Column 2]
physically, and perhaps spiritually. In
looking around,or in considering our friends,
we find much thought for reflection, aside
from differences in character and tempera-
ment, there are incidents in certain lives
which render persons perhaps gloomy, mo-
rose, irritable and disagreeable. In many
instances all these are, or may be the re-
sult of sad experiences and bitter disap-
pointments.
	There is scarcely a human heart so hard
that it cannot be softened by some remem-
brance of the past. Those, who after years
wasted in dissipation and folly, care noth-
ing for the future, have no hopes, no trust,
no faith, are seldom oblivious of the past;
recall to them some reminiscence of their
childhood, or mother, or home, and see if
deep down in the recesses of their soul
there is not a treasured memory that wells
up and finds vent, if not in words, in tears,
or in a stifled sob. Many are the precious
golden links that bind our hearts to the
friends and scenes of other days; simple
things in themselves, yet magnetic in
charm, and powerful in their hold upon
memory. A lock of hair carefully laid
away, a letter faded and worn, these and a 
thousand other tender mementoes are oft
times the choicest treasures of men and
women of the highest type of character,
men and women who possess affection of
the loftiest tone and sublimity.
