FITNESS FOR PRACTICAL WORK.

	Men and women of prestige in this age are
becoming so thoroughly practical that every
thing seems about to be measured by its adapt-
ation to use. That theory, or rule, which can-
not be made conveniently subservient to prac-
tical purposes, is deemed next to worthless,
the term "not practical" is continually being
applied to plans which do not succeed well, or
inventions which have not been utilized. Men
of all classes and professions are estimated not
so much according to the knowledge they pos-
sess, as the faculty or tact they have for its
utilization, in pursuing the varied affairs of
life.
	It is only by gradual processes that sure re-
sults are attained; and if any system of reform
in society is introduced by women, it cannot
be made eminently practical immediately.
Work progresses according to the fitness of
those who prosecute it, and much may, and
does depend upon earnestness and devotion to
the cause one may be engaged in. In any con-
dition of life, those who prepare for certain,
special places are more likely to fill them with
dignity and credit to themselves and all inter-
ested, than those who jump into, or usurp po-
sitions for which they were not previously pre-
pared. To be sure the Lord sometimes quali-
fies persons by some special interposition, as
He did "Jesus' disciples," but this is in excep-
tional cases, when the exigencies of a time, or
times demand it. Such persons are usually re-
ferred to as having rare endowments, or fine
talents, which circumstances mold at the mo-
ment of action, making them equal to the
emergency.
	This day is spoken of as the Woman's day,
or as one in which woman is moving forward
and claiming rights and privileges which have
long been denied her; and is it not absolutely
essential that women should prepare them-
selves for the blessings of freedom and inde-
pendence in thought and action, which they,
some of them, claim and desire to enjoy, as an
inherent and God-given boon? We believe it
is:
	The laws of the land in withholding politi-
cal freedom from woman, have by very conse-
quence, also wrought, out her moral, mental and
social slavery. Can they then as a class rise in
one supreme moment from ignominious bond-
age which has enthralled them body and soul,
to a high standard of mental and social great-
ness, such as some conceive to be the true
ideal of their ambitious hopes? No! woman as
well as man must qualify herself for that to
which she aspires. It does not signify only,
that she may be good and pure, but she must
also comprehend what is her mission and the
necessary qualification for the fulfillment of
that definite labor, by all available means and

[Column 2]

opportunities; that she may become equal to
the position she desires to maintain. Other-
wise she cannot expect to retain a firm hold of
rights that may come to her through the inter- 
vention of others, who have qualified them-
selves not only to assert and maintain their
own respective rights, but have stood boldly
forth in the defense of their less courageous sis-
ters. Of what use is the ballot in the hands
of women who will not use it, who cannot be
made to understand it as an avenue of escape
from wrongs and outrages, as a door by which
woman may enter, a wider sphere of usefulness
and through her influence,potent in its power,
cleanse, and purify, and renovate much that is
radically wrong, immoral and impure. If ever
modern society is purified from the moral pes-
tilence which now pervades its ranks, if ever
intemperance is checked, woman must in a
material, efficient and practical manner, aid in
its renovation. It is no doubt her true province
to assist in restoring a purer and higher tone
to society, but will man allow her to do it ac-
cording to her own broad and philanthropic
ideas and sentiments? Not yet! But when
women as a class, are educated up to that high-
er standard of excellence, when they are so
thoroughly systematized in the work they have
undertaken, that of reformation in social life,
then they will be able to brook all restraint
imposed by man-made laws, and achieve the
triumph over custom and tradition which now
binds them with galling chains. The wo-
men of America have begun, other countries
are following her glorious example, and even-
tually, (God willing) woman will regain her
true position as man’s companion and co- 
worker.
	Mormon women have had some peculiar ex-
periences, and opportunities for discipline, that
ought to have materially aided them in a
higher education than the women of the world
enjoy. The system of woman’s work organized
here in Utah, should, if the sisters would fit
themselves efficiently, prepare them for prac-
tical work in every department in life which
pertains to the mission of perfect womanhood. 
Can they be made to realize these things? Are
they moving forward and becoming useful to
the extent of their ability? In short, do they
seek to educate and qualify themselves to stand
as helpmeets to the brethren, who are building
up Zion? This is a subject on which much
might be said. Of what use is it to clamor for
posiion, if one is not fitted for the work it in-
volves? None whatever. The work to be done
requires not only the few, who may be diligent
and lead out, but it requires the universal help
of all the women in Israel; and when in one
strong phalanx they shall unite, having fitted
themselves for practical helpfulness, then will
not glad shouts of Hosanna arise, and will not
all the people with one accord say Amen?


