HOME AFFAIRS.

THE COMMITTEE of Consultation in the in-
terest of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, is respectfully
requested to meet at the office of WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, Tuesday, Dec. 4, at 2 o’clock, p. m.
A punctual attendance is required.
 COL. J. R. Winder and Gen. R. T. Burton
returned Tuesday evening, from a business trip
to Chicago.  They have been transacting busi-
ness for the Co-operative Tannery and Woolen
Factories.
 BISHOP JOHN Sharp left for New York City
this morning on business.  Mrs. Nellie
R. Webber accompanied him to meet her
husband, who is on his way home from his
mission to Europe, having been recalled to at-
tend to business here.
	In remembrance of our own school-days in
New Salem, Mass., we publish the following,
clipped from the Woman's Journal, of Boston:
 "New Salem, Mass., is proud of its district
school, under charge of Mrs. Hattie A. Clary,
formerly Miss Bridges of Deerfield, which closed
with an examination and exhibition last week.
Special prominence has been given to drawing,
and, with 1400 days of attendance by twenty-
eight pupils, there have been but thirteen days
absence."
 DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT has opened her office
in the 12th Ward, 2d South St., between 5th
and 6th East Streets.  She has made a specialty
of eye and ear diseases, having taken special
courses in the Eye department of Drs. Noyes,
Little and Callan, of the New York Eye and
Ear Infirmary, and of Dr. McClure of Well’s
Hospital, and of Dr. Heyl of the Philadelphia
Dispensary, of Philadelphia.  She also took a
clinical course on the ear, of Dr. Burnett, the
first Ansal surgeon of Philadelphia.  She also
gives special attention to obstetrics and diseases
of women.
 MRS. D. P. Bowers, an actress of some con-
siderable fame, played in the Salt Lake Thea-
tre three evenings this week.  Queen Eliza-
beth, Lady Audley and Camille were the parts
she represented.  Her voice is pleasant, her
manners graceful, and her rendering of each of
these characters exquisitely poetical.  Mr. Mc-
Collum, who travels with her, is an actor of
prepossessing appearance and more than aver-
age abilty. They have drawn good houses,
even in “these hard times.” They were well
supported by the local dramatic company.
 ERRATA.--In the minutes of the Relief So-
ciety meeting of the First Ward, published in
No. 12, Nov. 15, on the 6th page, a mistake oc-
curred, which we consider it necessary to cor-
rect.  In the remarks made by Miss E. R.
Snow, which commence with the last para-
graph of the second column, we have published
"We were not sent here to consult our own
consciences;” which should read “we were not
sent here to consult our own convenience.”
	In the R.S. Report of Honeyville, published
in Sept. 1st, No. 7, in stating the amount of
wheat stored—55 bushels—a mistake in the fig-
ures made it read 505 bushels.
 ELDER O. H. Riggs returned Saturday Nov.
24 from his mission to Europe.  The English
climate seriously affected his health, and he
was therefore advised to return home. He
stayed a short time visiting his friends and ac-
quaintances in the States.  Mr. James Dwyer
returned from the East in company with Elder
Riggs.  He has been purchasing holiday goods
for the little folks’ Santa Claus.  He expects
dear old Santa Claus to come to him for his
supplies for the children's stockings and to or-
nament Christmas trees, etc.; he has also pro-
vided goods in his line suitable for all ages,
and Santa Claus will please call at Mr. James
Dwyer's and examine his stock of Merchandise
before making large purchases elsewhere.
 WE HAVE just returned from a most inter-
esting, visit to Tooele City, where we went in
company with Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs. E.
Howard.  The party of us were heartily wel-
comed by the good sisters there, and the breth-
ren too seemed pleased with the visit.  We
left by the seven o’clock train, Monday morn-
ing, Nov. 26, and on arriving at the nearest
point adjacent to Tooele, found Brother Tate
and wife and Mrs. Micklejohn in waiting, with
a carriage and fine spirited span of horses.
	The meeting was at two o’clock; meantime


[Column 1]
we had the opportunity of meeting at the
house of Brother Robert Micklejohn, where
we took dinner, Bishop Tuttle of Tooele, his
wife and daughter, Mrs. Annie Musser, a dear
friend of ours, and several other good sisters
from Lakeview. At the meeting house (a good,
substantial, rock building) we met with Mrs.
Hunter, the President of the Relief Society of
Grantsville, and several other sisters from that
place, who had come over to attend the meet-
ings. The afternoon meeting was under the
auspices of the Relief Society, presided over
by Mrs. Elizabeth Clegg, Counselor to Mrs.
Micklejohn, who was called away to attend a
sick person.
	The meeting house is commodious and well-
finished inside, has a large, comfortable vestry
adjoining, and a gallery opposite the stand.
The singing was excellent, the selections choice
and well rendered. After the sisters from Salt
Lake had spoken, Bishop Tuttle made some
most sententious remarks. The house was well
filled, and prior to adjournment a notice was
given out that the meeting in the evening
would be conducted by the Young Ladies M.
I. Association; The Young Men's M. I. A.
were invited to join them, also a general invi-
tation extended to all who wished to attend.
The house was well filled, a larger number of
brethren being present than is usual at such
meetings. The Superintendent of the Asso-
ciation, Mrs. Tate, presided. Miss Emily War-
burton, Secretary, read the minutes of their
last meeting, which gave some idea of the
work they are doing in the interest of the
kingdom of God. Miss E. R. Snow addressed
the meeting, speaking on almost all the differ-
ent topics of the greatest importance in laying
the foundation for a life of usefulness here,
and living for an exaltation hereafter. Mrs.
Howard, in her remarks, dwelt considerably
upon the necessity of economy, and strongly
advised the young people to marry and settle
down without waiting to accumulate wealth
first. She also urged the young men to be
temperate, to leave off bad habits, if they had
been addicted to any. President F. M. Lyman
made some excellent remarks at the close of
the meeting, and expressed himself well pleased
with the sisters' visit and their instructions to
the people. Meeting adjourned until eleven
o'clock the following day. Tuesday morning
at eleven o'clock, a goodly number of brethren
and sisters were assembled; Mrs. Micklejohn
presided. After singing and prayer, Secretary
Mrs. Emily Warburton read the minutes of
their last meeting. They gave a very good
idea of the condition of the Society, and were
rich in testimony of the Gospel, and the good
spirit and feelings of those who were associat-
ed together in works of charity and love. The
subjects treated upon by the sisters who spoke
were the duties and responsibilities of women,
especially mothers, the training of the youth,
the development of capabilities through cul-
ture and proper discipline, the influence of
women upon society and in the formation of
the character of nations, celestial marriage, its
relationships and its advantages. This meet-
ing adjourned until half past six in the eve-
ning, when the house was again filled, The
people paid strict attention to the speakers in
all the meetings, and good order was strictly
observed. Indeed we have never seen more
attentive audiences. We thank the good peo-
ple of Tooele for the many kindnesses and gen-
erous hospitality extended to the party during
their brief stay, and trust that some good seed
may have been sown, that will yield fruit in
due season. These visits of the sisters to the
various settlements, in the interest of Relief 
Societies and Young Ladies' Associations, have

[Column 2]
in some instances been productive of great
good in awakening the slothful and indifferent
to a sense of the responsibilities devolving up-
on them in this day and age of the world.


