	MALAD, IDAHO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having read the EXPONENT, and know-
ing the interest you take in the Relief So-
cieties in any portion of the vineyard, I
thought a few items from our quiet little
corner might be interesting and acceptable.
Our Society was organized February 11,
1874, Mrs. Jane Price was selected as Pres-
ident; Mrs. Ann Daniels and Mrs Esther
Lusk Counselors; Mrs. Martha Jones as
Treasurer, we have twenty-six teachers and
eighty members. We are not many in
numbers, but we feel united in our efforts
and desire to be one in all our works and ac-
tions, that the spirit of the Lord may rest
upon us in our undertakings. We have
been buying grain according to the counsel
of the servants of the Lord; and we intend
to take every available means to buy more.
The teachers feel like doing their best, in-
structing the saints to love one another and
to encourage the spirit of kindness one to-
wards another, that they may live their holy
religion and be faithful to their covenants.
The Lord has truly blest us in our labors of
love among our sisters. We have made
several good quilts, some for the poor and
some to sell and buy grain. We had the
pleasure of holding a conference here on
Sunday, October 21, several brethren from
Salt Lake City being present, also Elder
Lorenzo Snow and his son Oliver Snow, our
beloved President, Elder George Dunford
who was ordained our Presiding Bishop,
his counselors and other brethren. We
had good advice and instruction, and the 
spirit of kindness and encouragement will
long be remembered. Our local brethren
often pay us a visit in our general meetings
which we hold once in two weeks, and bless
and cheer us; teaching us to be faithful in 
the good work we have begun for the up-
building of the kingdom of God, and
strengthening the hands of our President
Mrs. Jane Price who is laboring with us,
and reminding the saints to be obedient to 
the counsel they receive from time to time;
we are striving to prevail upon the saints
to realize the importance of home manufac-
ture; some can see the benefit to be obtain-
ed by following this counsel, and we pray
the Lord to open the eyes of the under-
standing of those that cannot see, that they
may obey good counsel and pursue a praise-
worthy course in life.
	Ever praying for the prosperity of Zion
and the success of the EXPONENT, I sub-
scribe myself your fellow laborer.
