	LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
						Oct. 12, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I regret to say I am not prepared to give
you a sketch of the history of this little dot
of land, and people, situated in the midst
of the great Pacific Ocean, as you desired,
for I have seen but little of the country
and people, being confined to this small
Mormon settlement, Laie, the gathering
place for the Saints here. Should an op-
portunity present itself for me to glean any-
thing of interest on the subject, I will gladly
communicate the same for the benefit of
the many readers of our woman's paper.
The Elders of this mission reached here in
time for our October Conference; to us it
was a re-union of dear friends, and I think
none but those who have been deprived of
those of our faith, engaged in the same
cause that we are, and alike strangers in a
strange land, can better appreciate each
other's society than we. Elders Lambert,
Woolley and families were released a few
days since to return to the dear ones at
home, and are now on their way home to
Salt Lake City. They have performed a
long and faithful mission here; their de-
parture leaves me the only white woman at
Laie, or within twenty miles of this place;
so you see I do not indulge in that much to
be detested propensity of gossiping and
backbiting. I thought I should be very
lonesome, but I seem to content myself
much better than I expected. My labors
and cares seem to occupy my mind and
drive away all thought of my seclusion,
and the Spirit of the Lord seems to remind
me that I have a mission to perform among
this people, and notwithstanding their
many faults, the spirit of Charity seems to
urge us to be lenient and to continue our
exertions in their behalf, that a remnant of
them may be saved.
	This is a kind-hearted, hospitable people,
strangers and friends are alike made wel-
come to their store of provisions as long as

[Column 2]
they last, and when gone they all fast to-
gether, without murmuring, until some
more is provided. They frequently go one
and two days without eating, and especially
in times of scarcity of food, which is a very
common occurrence, they being of a dis-
position "to take no thought for the mor-
row," and neglect to plant in the season
thereof. This nation is fast dwindling
away both from the effects of disease and
barrenness—probably not more than one
woman in ten becomes a mother. They
appear to be very fond of children, but,
strange to say, mothers think nothing of
giving their offspring away and adopting
others in their stead; this has been custom-
ary with them from time immemorial, and
many of their old traditions cling tena-
ciously to them,- notwithstanding their
advances in civilization, and it is not prob-
ble, from present appearances, that even the
light of the Holy Gospel will enable them
to overcome many of them in this genera-
tion.
	We had an excellent Conference here on
the 6th and 7th inst. President W. E.
Pack, and Elders J. Keeler and S. M. Mo-
len were appointed to labor at this place,
Laie; Elder J. S. Woodbury to travel on
the islands of Kanai and Oahu; Elder H.
P. Richards on the islands of Mani, Molo-
kai and Lanai; Elder J. Gates, Jun., on the
island of Hawaii; for which places they
will take their departure in a few days.
	With kind remembrances to all our
friends, I am your sister,
