SPANISH FORK, Oct. 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
I send you a few lines to let your readers
know that the Relief Society here are anx-
ious to do their part in all the various duties
and requirements of the times; especially
in regard to Storing Grain for Zion, a re-
port of which will be sent as directed in
your issue of the 15th.  Silk raising has not 
been lost sight of, although but little has been
done the past season, we hope for better
things in the future, for this truly useful
branch of industry, as our President and 
many others are awake to its importance.
At the annual meeting of the Society held
the second day of July last, an increase of
members, and a good financial condition
was reported.
	Our first meeting after the death of our
beloved President Brigham Young was a 
very solemn one; all present feeling the 
loss of him who had, under God led Israel
so long and so faithfully.  Many of the sis-
ters spoke with much feeling, and express-
ed a determination to carry out in the fu-
ture more fully the counsels he had given
us; also recognizing this to be the kingdom
of God, and upholding  and sustaining who-
ever may be appointed to guide and direct
its affairs on the earth.  The Epistle of the
Twelve to the saints was read and all felt
comforted.
	Among other plans for saving grain, it
was proposed that all the sisters that could,
should go to the fields and glean, which was
heart[-]lly responded to. The result was
twenty-five bushels more of wheat to add
to Zion's granary.  The young ladies of the
Mutual Improvement Society, who are also
members of the Relief Society, had a glean-
ing "bee" and also gathered nearly twenty-
five bushels of wheat and finished the day
with a ball in the City Hall which was
quite an enjoyable affair.  Two of our mem-
bers have been called away by death during
the past year; at the request of their friends
I send their obituary notices.
	The spirit of union is increasing among
us. With love to all who love our Lord and
Savior Jesus Christ in sincerity and truth,
we remain your sisters in the Gospel.
				MARY FERGUSON, Pres't
