WORK ADAPTED TO THE WORKERS.

	Extract from the paper read by Mrs. An-
toinnette Brown Blackwell, at the Woman's
Congress:
	"Pecuniary independence wonderfully
promotes mental and moral independence.
*	* 'Give me neither poveriy or riches'
is a good prayer; but in this age, the major-
ity of women are not destined to become
rich in their own right and certainly not as
the reward of their own industry.	*	*
There is many a woman who would be pro-
foundly glad to own something in a differ-
ent sense from that which is hers as a part of
the general family estate. The need is al-
most as imperative in the grown daughters
as in the wife.
	No one who has reflected upon the diffi-
culties which hedge about every scheme for
adjusting with equity the involved proper-
ty interests of the family, can for a moment
doubt, that our civilization being essentially
what it now is, it would be well if the wo-
men of many households had some profes-
sion, some specialty, by which, without
relinquishing home-duties, they could yet
honorably earn, at least, something for cur-
rent pocket money. Home-duties preclude,
and must always preclude, their taking up
business occupations after the usual routine
of masculine methods. Exceptional wo-
men are doing this; exceptional talent can
always prescribe work and methods of work
for itself, but to average womanhood do-
mestic arrangements are not adapted to or-
dinary business enterprises.
	One may hold, as I do, that a good wife
is justly entitled to one half of the property
of the wedded firm. For all that, no true
woman who found her husband struggling
with pecuniary embarrassments would feel
at liberty to expend a dollar which was not
rigidly indispensable; and if the partner of
one's joys, as well as sorrows, though mod-
erately prosperous, was always feeling the
need for a larger capital, or lived in chronic
eagerness to become rich, the coveted luxu-
ry, if purchased under such conditions,
would become ashes on the lips; yet if a
wife had been paid by strangers for some
special work of her own, she might, per-
haps, expend that sum with a satisfied con-
science. Or if she chose rather to add such
earnings to the family store, the luxury of
doing so, would be especially refreshing.
	What then can be done practically in sim-
ilar cases? We will not ask what would be
best in an ideal society, which may come
some time in the future; but what can be
accomplished in the present state of things
as now existing? Is it better for vigorous
and sensible American women to be always
doing without something which they very
much desire, or is it perhaps best, that with-
out relinquishing most of their usual house-
hold employments, they should search out
ways of directly earning money enough to
enable them to gratify their own personal
tastes and requirements?		*	*
	We cannot doubt that tens of thousands
would eagerly elect to earn, if the earning
were feasible without loss of caste. Very
many advantages would accrue from the
broadening of occupations. Life would be
less a round of common place, and the sense
of genuine independence, would be delight-
ful, if only as a novelty. Could this be
even partially effected, its broadest good
would lie in the fact that remunerative
work might thus become as honorable to
women as to men.
	The earning once achieved, all the rest is

[Column 2]

easy and natural. The trouble has been
that so few women have even thought of
positive earnings that the whole class has
been forced into a pernicious system of
money-saving, which has left nearly all
feminine industries some centuries behind
the industries of men.
	Cleveland, Ohio, Oct. 1877.


[Column 1]
