REPORT READ AT FIRST ANNUAL MEET-
     ING, HELD IN THE COUNCIL HOUSE
     S. L. City, Nov. 17, 1877.

  At the suggestion and by the advice and 
counsel of President Brigham Young a call
was made upon the sisters through the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT of Oct. 15, 1876 to store
up and hold in trust grain for Zion, in all
the towns and settlements of this Territory;
also to build granaries in the various locali-
ties and sections; and to solicit the brethren
for donations of grain, and to build store-
houses.  Acting promptly upon the counsel
given, a meeting was held in the Social
Hall one year ago to-day, under the auspi-
ces of a Central Committee who had been
previously appointed by the unanimous
vote of a general meeting of the sisters in the 
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Nov.,
11, 1876.  The subject of storing grain was
discussed by the presiding sisters of Re-
lief Societies, and such practical measures
decided upon, and arrangements made, as
were deemed proper and advisable.  Since
that time the sisters in almost all parts of 
the Territory have been diligently follow-
ing out the instructions given on that sub-
ject, and the reports that have been re-
ceived from the different localities are a 
guarantee of the energy and good faith of 
the sisters in this noble enterprise.
   Synopsis of reports of grain stores and
held in trust by women in the various towns
and settlements of this Territory, as per re-
ports to the President of Central Commit-
tee.  These reports are from Relief Socie-
ties and Young Ladies' Associations. The
aggregate amount of grain reported in good
condition, stored within the year, since
Nov. 17, 1876 up to the present time is 
10,465 bushels.  Of this wheat 299 bush-
els were gleaned by the sisters of the 
Relief and Young Ladies' Societies.  Fifty
bushels were bought with Sunday eggs
saved by the good sisters of Dewey-
ville, Box Elder County for that ex-
press purpose.  There is also a quantity of 
flour stored and held in trust for the same 
purpose, the aggregate amount in weight
being 7,358 pounds.  The Societies have also 
on hand in cash with which to purchase
wheat forthwith $329,10; besides many ar-
ticles, such as quilts, carpets and other pro-
ducts of the labors of the sisters in their or-
ganizations as Societies, which they in-
tend disposing of to purchase wheat.  There
have been excellent gr[-]naries built in the 
17th and 15th wards of this city, and prepar-
ations are being made in several other pla-
ces to build good substantial granaries and 
store-houses.  Many of the Societies have
bins of their own in buildings belonging to 
the Society, or ward.  The Bishops, in 
many places have lent all the aid and influ-
ence possible to assist the sisters in this be-
nevolent work.  The storing up of wheat
is not allowed to interfere with other du-
ties which pertain to the calling of the sis
ters of the Relief Societies.  The wheat re-
ported here is in Salt Lake.  Utah, Mil-
lard, Beaver, Sanpete, Sevier, Summit,
Tooele, Davis, Weber, Morgan, Cache and 
Box Elder Counties.  There are several
towns and settlements that have not yet
reported to the Central Committee.
