[Vol52 | December 1965 | Page 906 | General Feature | Editorial: The 135th Semi- Annual | Church Conference]

EDITORIAL

The 135th Semi-Annual

■ The 135th Semi-Annual Church Conference was held October 1, 2, and 3, in the Tabernacle on Temple Square. It was a time of rejoicing, enlightenment, and inspiration. The messages were widely disseminated by more than 200 radio and television stations. The Church-owned shortwave station WRUL in New York City, beamed the Sunday addresses to all parts of the world in English, German, Spanish, and Portuguese. Congregations in Germany and England assembled to hear the Sunday morning session by closed circuit broadcast.

All of the General Authorities were present at the conference, although time did not permit all of them to speak. The spirituality of the meetings was heightened by the presence and participation of President David O. McKay, who extended counsel, love, and greetings to a vast audience, seen and unseen, who once more rejoiced to hear the voice of their prophet.

In his opening address, President McKay spoke of the precious heritage of liberty and the effort and vigilance needed to maintain personal freedom in the nations of the earth. He urged the saints to exercise devoted responsibility which is always necessary to the survival of liberty.

We are grateful for the blessings of the Lord to His Church in all the world, for the assurance of His divine guidance and inspiration. With deep gratitude we acknowledge in your presence the Lord's nearness and His goodness, and in that spirit of prayerful appreciation, proclaim that our souls respond in harmony with the glorious vision given to the Prophet Joseph Smith. . . . "next to the bestowal of life itself, the right to direct our lives is God's greatest gift to man. Freedom of choice is more to be treasured than any possession earth can give. It is inherent in the spirit of man. It is a divine gift to every mortal being. Whether born in abject poverty, or shackled at birth by inherited riches, everyone has the most precious of all life's endowments—the gift of free agency, man's inherited and inalienable right.

President Hugh B. Brown counseled strict and abiding loyalty of each and every member of the Church to his own homeland, and urged

Volume 52    December 1965    Number 12

• Belle S. Spafford, President
• Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor
• Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor
• Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer

Church Conference

all the saints to make a determined and constructive effort to uphold the institutions of freedom.

We should understand that each of us has a duty to honor, support, and sustain our civil leaders and the law. The fact that everyone is entitled to his or her own opinion insofar as various matters of law and government are concerned does not relieve any one of us of the personal responsibility to obey, honor, and sustain the elected governmental officers and the law which it is their duty to administer.

Surely as we face the future there is reason for concern, but there is no reason for despair. Let us find a reason to lift, to build and to uphold.

President N. Eldon Tanner emphasized the two-fold nature of laws established for the government of men upon the earth—protection and punishment.

To us the law is the bedrock of our basic ideals: democracy, freedom, justice. However, from day to day most of us take our law for granted. We forget about it until we need it or break it, but law looks over our shoulders constantly, seldom intruding on us, so much a part of our lives that it has become more of a guide than a restriction, more protection than threat of punishment.

Let us remember, too, and never forget, that if we keep the laws of God, the greatest of all law-givers, we will automatically keep the laws of the land, and that the laws of God, if kept, will ensure peace, security, and happiness here on this earth, and lead us to immortality and eternal life.

A farewell blessing was given by President McKay in words of tender concern and counsel.

My brethren and sisters, as we come to this parting hour, I should like to say to you that the teachings and life of the Master never before seemed to me more beautiful, more necessary, and more applicable to human happiness than they are today. Never have I believed more firmly in the perfection of humanity as the final result of man's placement here on earth. With my whole soul I accept Jesus Christ as the personification of human perfection—as God made manifest in the flesh, as the Savior and Redeemer of mankind.

Anna B. Hart
Edith S. Elliott
Florence J. Madsen
Leone G. Layton
Blanche B. Stoddard
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Josie B. Bay
Alberta H. Christensen
Mildred B. Ewing
Edith P. Backman
Winniefred S. Manwaring

Elna P. Haymond
Mary R. Young
Mary V. Cameron
Afton W. Hunt
Weatha S. Mendenhall
Elsa T. Peterson
Fanny S. Kienitz
Elizabeth B. Winters
LaRue H. Rosell
Jennie R. Scott
Alice L. Wilkinson
Irene W. Buehner

Hazel S. Love
Fawn H. Sharp
Celestia J. Taylor
Irene C. Lloyd
Anna R. Gledhill
Belva B. Ashton
Zola J. McGhie
Oa J. Cannon
Lila B. Walch
Lenore G. Gundersen
Marjorie C. Pingree
Darlene C. Dedskind

Cleone R. Eccles
Edythe K. Watson
Ellen N. Barnes
Kathryn S. Gilbert
Verda F. Burton
Myrtle R. Olson
Alice C. Smith
Lucille P. Peterson
Elaine B. Curtis
