[Vol52 | December 1965 | Page 946 | Lesson | Social Science — Personal Standards Alberta | H. Christensen]
SOCIAL SCIENCE—Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 3 (No. 15 in series)—Personal Standards For Third Meeting, March 1966 Objective: To point out the importance of personal standards LESSON 14 FOLLOW-UP The Home Doing suggestion concluding lesson 14 was the rereading of the lesson or, if available, the reading of the 1966 Melchizedek Priesthood lessons 1, 2, 3, and 4. Several expressions from the class members as to points clarified by this reading might be 'helpful to all class members. INTRODUCTION This lesson deals with personal standards and must, of necessity, be self-analyzing. It aims to call our collective attention to the need and the value of an individual review of one's personal standards as they relate to the 946 in the development of character. Principles of the gospel, and to the development of one's character, which we may say is the total result of one's beliefs, attitudes, and actions. THE SELF-IMAGE Although all may not be aware of the fact, each of us possesses, within the realm of the conscious or subconscious mind, a selfimage. This is the image of the person we believe that we are or would like to be; the person we hope others recognize us to) be. An early and obvious manifes-' tation of this image is that of the small child who makes be; lieve he is a policeman, an In- dian, a parent, or perhaps a friend. He may identify so closely with the object of his admiration as to follow closely even specific mannerisms. Years of experience, however, may and should discipline an individual to a self-image more in harmony with the realities of his particular life. It is a fact, nevertheless, that a_ self-image persists and is influenced by the principles in which a person believes and by the standard of performance which his beliefs dictate. With this idea in mind, how important is the self-image in motivating or restraining our actions? Often we hear such comments as the following: 1. I could never do such a thing. It just wouldn't be like me. 2. I couldn't do that. If I did, I would not be able to live with myself. 3. I do this service because I believe in its purpose and value. The principle involved is warp and woof of my very being. Do not such comments indicate how important is the standard of values we incorporate in our self-image? Let us not become discouraged in striving to attain the ideal self-image. HOW WOULD YOU ACT? Analyze the following situation and, in keeping with your own personal standard, indicate with a check what you would do. If a person whom you know is being gossiped about, would you: A. Listen quietly without comment, although you know that some of the statements are untrue? B. Add further to the gossip? C. Check the trend of disparaging conversation by relating something good about the person? LESSON DEPARTMENT THE BASIC VALUES Personal standards of Christian living must be based upon the commandments of the Lord. They are both source and definition. When questioned by the Pharisee lawyer as to the "great commandment in the law," Jesus answered: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as_ thyself (Matt. 22:37-39). The Articles of Faith enumerate many specific truths which Latter-day Saints also believe and accept. From the Thirteenth Article we have the following: "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men." How do we rate, individually, in our attitude and belief relative to these personal virtues? Let us consider the virtue of personal honesty. Honesty, no doubt, is a personal virtue included in the moral standard of all of us. How honest, however, are we? How consistent is our performance? In business? In our social life? In our homes? EXAMPLE STORY Robert, age eleven, brings from his friend's home a puzzle game which he says he is quite sure his friend does not wish to keep. His mother explains that unless the game has actually been given to him it is not his to keep. She insists that Robert return the game, which he does. The mother is now satisfied that 


 her young son understands the meaning of honesty. Some time later Robert announces that he has been asked to give a two-and-one-half-minute talk on the subject, "'I Believe in Being Honest." The mother becomes excited with the thought of her son fulfilling this important assignment. She impresses upon him the need to speak clearly and to be neatly dressed, and asks him what he is going to say. "I don't know," Robert answers. "Why don't you write it for me?" Here is a crucial point relative to honesty in this illustrative story. There are alternatives of action which the mother might take: 1. If Robert is mature enough to prepare his talk without assistance, the mother should encourage him to do so. She might, of course, wish to hear the talk before it is given, which would give her an opportunity to see that Robert has the proper understanding of honesty and to clarify any points that may need clarification. 2. If Robert definitely needs his mother's assistance in preparing his talk, she might tell him that the story of his own experience or ideas about being honest, told in his own words, would be helpful to other children who are also learning about honesty. She might add that she will help him if he needs her to do so. She might also remind him that since the title of his talk is "I Believe in _ Being Honest," it should express his own thoughts about honesty. This _ procedure might help him to recall her recent teaching as to honesty and thus reinforce that teaching. How developing it would be for Robert, thus assisted, to say, "My talk today is called 'I Believe in Being Honest.' My mother is helping me to understand 948 what it means to be honest and why it is important that everyone be honest. She helped me prepare my talk." For Robert, how developing this would be, and for the audience, how refreshing! What is the difference between a mother writing a talk for her child and the child preparing his own talk with the mother's guidance? THEY SAY AND DO NOT How important is it that we live what we believe—that we are true to the personal standard we set for ourselves? This above all: to thine own self be true, And it must follow, as the night the day, Thou can'st not then be false to any man. There is wisdom in these lines by William Shakespeare. There is, however, no statement in all literature comparable to the Savior's denunciation of those who were false to their professed beliefs. Speaking of the lawgivers—the learned religious leaders of his time—he said: I The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat: All therefore whatsoever they bid you observe, that observe and do; but do not ye after their works: for they say, and do not (Matt. 23:2, 3). Specific hypocrisies are then listed:... They bind heavy burdens and grievous to be borne,... But they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers.... Their works they do for to be seen of men.... Love the uppermost room at feasts, and the chief seats in the synagogues. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For ye devour widows' houses, and for a_ pretence make long prayer.... Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith. Ye blind guides, which strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel (Matt. 23:4-6, 14, 23-24). Are not these words of the Savior as relevant today as when uttered nearly 2,000 years ago? Are we not all guilty, to some degree, of being pretenders to virtues which we really do not possess? Do we not strain at a gnat and swallow a camel? (Enlarge upon small imperfections and ignore a more serious problem?) Do we follow the letter of the law—paying "tithe of mint and anise and cummin" and omit the weightier matters of the law? (Failing to use mercy and faith in our judgment of one another?) We often may forget that when we fail to live as we profess. To live, we may weaken, even destroy, the faith of others. Mothers may nullify the positive value of their teachings by failing to live according to their expressed beliefs. What might result from such statements as the following: 1. Mother to daughter: "Go to the door, dear, and say I'm not at home." 2. Mother to son: "Why don't you step on the gas? There is no policeman in sight." Jesus forgave the humble and repentant sinner. He paid tribute to Nathanael in these words, "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!" (no deceit) (John 1:47). But he spoke with scorn of those who did not live LESSON DEPARTMENT the moral principles to which they claimed belief. THE STATIONARY STANDARD VERSUS THE GROWING STANDARD We grow in wisdom through our experiences and as our understanding of temporal and spiritual laws enlarges. How should this affect our personal standards? (Suggestion: Our standards of belief and what we expect of ourselves by way of performance should rise. Do they always do so?) Note and discuss the following comments which illustrate, by way of contrast, both the stationary and the growing personal standard: 1. I seem to act at times as if I were still a young girl. Why don't I grow up? 2. The experiences of the past year should have made me more generous with other people. But apparently they have not. 3. I once thought that I would never bear my testimony before a group. I didn't think it mattered and I, also, was too timid. But I have seen women grow in ability to express themselves through repeatedly bearing their testimonies. My point of view has changed. I have received many blessings and I am bearing my testimony today to acknowledge the blessings of my Heavenly Father, and I shall do so again. What has happened to the following person's personal standards? 4. Now that I am a member of the Church my ideas regarding personal behavior have changed. It is as if I had suddenly developed a new conscience. I am no longer satisfied with my former performance. FOR HOME DOING Personal Check List 1. Check the qualities listed below which you honestly believe apply to you. 


 2. Underline the qualities which you think may be in your self-image without ample justification, because - you wish they were. 3. Try in even one single area, to lessen the gap between standard of belief and performance. I envision myself as being: honest humble obedient jealous thrifty conservative resourceful timid appreciative creative a worrier generous with others sound in making judgments blessed with leadership ability (name others) FOR DISCUSSION The questions that appear in the lesson, plus these three: 1. Do we frequently acknowledge and commend specific talents of only those from whom we may expect to receive favors? 2. Why is it easy to overrate one's ability and virtues? 3. Is it easy to depreciate one's personal abilities? IN CONCLUSION We frequently quote the familiar statement "No man is an island. No man stands alone," for we know that we influence others for good or ill, and, likewise, we are influenced by the attitude, words, and actions of others. It is true, however, that to the extent that each individual will be held responsible for his own life, each does stand alone. Likewise, we are blessed by our own individual worthy thoughts and actions, and not by the virtues of friend or neighbor, however close the association may be. The Latter-day Saint mother will want to consider this fact as she reviews her own personal standards and as she teaches her children in the home. (See D&C 68:25-28.) She will want them to understand how important it is for each one to build worthy ideals, as a basis of the personal standard, and she will want them to realize that to achieve an inner peace one must live in harmony with that standard.