[Vol52 | December 1965 | Page 937 | Lesson | Theology — An Introduction to the Word of Wisdom Roy | W. Doxey]
THEOLOGY — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 70—An Introduction to the Word of Wisdom (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 89:1-3) For First Meeting, March 1966 Objective: To understand that the Word of Wisdom is a commandment. INTRODUCTION On the 27th of February 1833, the Prophet Joseph Smith received the revelation known as the Word of Wisdom. Latter-day Saints know this section in the Doctrine and Covenants as the one which emphasizes certain temporal benefits to be received by the members of the Church who live by its teachings. To think of this revelation as benefiting the observer physically is erroneous, because there are rich spiritual blessings to be derived from its observance. BACKGROUND As far as we know, most of the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants came in answer to inquiry by the Prophet Joseph Smith of the Lord. President Brigham Young gives us the following information. I think I am as well acquainted with the circumstances which led to the giving of the Word of Wisdom as any man in the Church, although I was not present at the time to witness them. The first school of the prophets was held in a small room situated over the Prophet Joseph's kitchen, in a house which belonged to Bishop Whitney, and which was attached to his store, which store probably might be about fifteen feet square.... The brethren came to that place for hundreds of miles to attend school in a little room probably no larger than eleven by fourteen. When they assembled together in this room after breakfast, the first thing they did was to light their pipes, and, while smoking, talk about the great things of the 


 kingdom, and spit all over the room, and as soon as the pipe was out of their mouths a large chew of tobacco would then be taken. Often when the Prophet entered the room to give the school instructions he would find himself in a cloud of tobacco smoke. This, and the complaints of his wife at having to clean so filthy a floor, made the Prophet think upon the matter, and he inquired of the Lord relating to the conduct of the Elders in using tobacco, and the revelation known as the Word of Wisdom was the result of his inquiry (Journal of Discourses 12:158). FOR THE SAINTS IN ZION Section 89 is a_ revelation whose title was given by the Lord. As pointed out above by Brigham Young, the Word of Wisdom was given for the benefit of the council of high priests assembled in Kirtland. Notwithstanding the revelation was given to these persons, it was to go also to the saints in Zion, and to the Church. A Word of Wisdom, for the benefit of the council of high priests, assembled in Kirtland, and the church, and also the saints in Zion— To be sent greeting; not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days (D&C 89:1-2). NOT BY COMMANDMENT To help the saints realize the need to observe this law, many of the living prophets have emphasized that the words in verse two establish that this revelation is to be lived by all Latter-day Saints. Elder George F. Richards said the following on the subject: I would call your attention to a part of the second paragraph in the 89th section, which reads as follows, referring to this revelation; it "'was 938 given by revelation, and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all Saints in the last days." We have accepted Joseph Smith as the prophet, seer, and revelator of this last dispensation, and in doing so we accept these revelations as being the word of the Lord to us. Here the Lord expresses His will, in very plain terms, that this revelation is given "showing forth the order and will of God." If for no other reason, this should be sufficient for any consistent Latterday Saint to induce him to yield implicit obedience unto this word. I can think of no gospel subject that will apply directly to more people among us as Latter-day Saints than this Word of Wisdom, unless it may be the principle of obedience, which includes yielding obedience unto this word; or repentance, which also includes turning away from these things which are forbidden, and obeying the will of the Lord (Conference Report, October 1908, pp. 87-88). Elder John A. Widtsoe ccmments upon this subject by asking this question:... But if a law is given by revelation showing the order and will of God should it not be more binding than a command because it calls for man's understanding cooperation? (Joseph Smith, page 199). If a Latter-day Saint believes that his non-observance of the Word of Wisdom is justified because of the words "'not by commandment or _ constraint," it would seem to put it in a category of the slothful who will lose his reward. Here is what the Lord said in 1831: For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned (D&C 58:28-29). In view f the for going CTipHow an we hop have faith, to la ures, is the difference down 7 ur lives, ho we claim to bot i the « 1" dt hi © willing do go, While oy, lives and ween the his Od to - actions, every day, Show to Our neigh children and 0. Mandment''? FS and to the Ord that w, re not € Same NE who gave Section Willing to d ourselves of the use oO 89 said this in th €rmon on the Strong dr k or t ©CO—those thing ount: Which are forbidd Of the Ord? Let; US be co Sistent ith Ourselves and ur Professions faith (C nferenc Not every o that Saith unto Mme, °? Ord, Lor » Shall enter into the king. Rep are, October 1908, Page 8 ) om of ©aven; but he hat doeth the Is jt Possible to love the d will of MY Fathe Which igs Mm heaven With ] he rts, with ll o r Perfection Is the 80al of the commanded, and not follow him Latter-day Saint. (3 Nephi 12e ag 4a true discip]e? (D&C 09:5.) 48.) Sometimes it is Maintained Elder Mark Petersen Of the that one Cannot be Perfect in this Counci] Of the Twelve, in a comMany times, there are areas of Mandment, Wrote: &0spe] living in Which one can be We have our decisions to make each Perfect. ( Lesson 38, Relief Sociday. We may be halfhearteg Latter. Ety Magazine, December 1961.) day Saints; "we may be part titheElder George F Richards conPayers, Part observers of the Word of y L of ¢;. Isdom, Part €epers e Sabbath tinued his Temarks quoted preday, part Supporters of the leaders viously In this Manner: and Program, of the Church. But that is not the Way the °rd would like it Our onward March towards The decisi N Wwe s ke in our Perfection will not leave the first Own best Nterest Is that d our the Church, we, the teachers, are forget Cur selfish interests, "for he Placed for the express Purpose of that loseth his life for my Sake, Shall bringing the People up to a knowledge find +" (Your Faith and You, Page » Showin Way unto Perfection I desire to say. > - here that we never can Teach perfec. The tr ue disciple Of the Master tion Until we Yield Obedience unto is known aS one Who follows him disciples, but We are asked by the _— Salvation is an individual] OpOrd to abstain from the use of Strong eration. [ am the Only Person that I I S h DECEMBER 1965 plicit obedience and submission to its great Author throughout my life, and to those whom He shall appoint to instruct me; in rejecting it, I follow the dictates of my own will in preference to the will of my Creator (Journal of Discourses 1:312). In order that none might say that he or she is excluded from the necessity of doing the will of the Lord, the Word of Wisdom was given for the "temporal salvation of all saints in the last days" (D&C 89:2). The leadership of the Church has counseled the members in all kinds of activities relating to their daily lives. The gospel is not to be lived only one day of the week. (Ibid., 59:11.) The Word of Wisdom, tithing, fast — offerings, the Welfare Plan—all of these—may be considered as directly affecting our temporal welfare because they pertain to activities which are a part of our earth-labors or which relate to physical salvation. The true significance of temporal salvation was made known early in this dispensation. In essence it is: the temporal welfare of the saint is vital to his spiritual salvation. Actually, there is no difference between the temporal and spiritual laws of God. (Ibid., 29:34- 35.) This sublime truth led President Joseph F. Smith to say: You must continue to bear in mind that the temporal and the spiritual are blended. They are not separate. One cannot be carried on without the other, so long as we are here in mortality. WORD OF WISDOM AND SPIRITUALITY In harmony with the forgoing information, other ''prophets, seers and revelators"' of this dispensation have voiced the truth 940 that the Word of Wisdom is spiritual. Some ways in which obedience is good and disobedience to this spiritual law brings harmful effects were given by President Stephen L Richards, as follows: Every commandment of God is spiritual in nature. There are no carnal commandments. We have learned this from modern revelation. While the commandments have effect upon the body and temporal things they are all in essence spiritual. The Word of Wisdom is spiritual. It is true that it enjoins the use of deleterious substances and makes provision for the health of the body. But the largest measure of good derived from its observance is in increased faith and the development of more spiritual power and wisdom. Likewise, the most regrettable and damaging effects of its infractions are spiritual, also. Injury to the body may be comparatively trivial to the damage to the soul in the destruction of faith and the retardation of spiritual growth. So I say, every commandment involves a spiritual growth. So I say, every commandment involves a spiritual principle (Conference Report, April 1949, page 141). For those who think of the Word of Wisdom as being a dietary law which promotes good health, and that its spiritual effects do not count as a requisite to eternal life, the foregoing thoughts certainly suggest otherwise. In addition, President Heber J. Grant pointed out that the observer of this law will find increased knowledge, as promised in verse 19 of Section 89: No man who breaks the Word of Wisdom can gain the same amount of knowledge and _ intelligence in this world as the man who obeys that law. I don't care who he is or where he comes from, his mind will not be as clear, and he cannot advance as far and as rapidly and retain his power as much as he would if he obeyed the Word of Wisdom. (Conference Report, April 1925, page 10). WORD OF WISDOM A COMMANDMENT As early as September 9, 1851, President Brigham Young before a conference of the Church put a motion to the congregation that they discontinue the use of tea, coffee, tobacco, and whiskey. The motion was carried unanimously. (Millennial Star 14:35.) In the August 1867 conference, President Young referred to the last conference "when the Lord told him by the Holy Spirit to call upon the saints to observe the Word of Wisdom, and that they who did not observe it would increase in the spirit of the world and become darkened in mind. (Journal of Discourses 12:117.) President George A. Smith, in 1871, said that a person loses the Spirit and grows cold in his religion when he does not keep the Word of Wisdom. (Ibid., 14:212.) In the October 1880 general conference the membership unanimously voted to acept the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants as binding upon the Church. The First Presidency composed of President Heber J. Grant, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and David O. McKay, in the October conference 1942, said: "I.. We reinvoke obedience to God's law of health given us by God Himself.... We urge the Saints to quit trifling with this law and so to live it that we may claim its promises (Improvement Era, Nov. 1942, page 687). The Word of Wisdom is a commandment! WHAT OF THE FUTURE? "Who's on the Lord's Side, Who?" The answer to this quesLESSON DEPARTMENT tion is left with the individual. As pointed out earlier, the disciple of the Lord will keep his commandments and ever work for the cause of Zion. As to the individual, the Lord has held out eternal life for the faithful. But what of the Church which is composed of individuals? Definite obgjectives or goals have been presented by the Lord.... Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations (D&C 115:5).... That the church may stand independent above all other creatures beneath the celestial world (Jbid., 78:14). When the Saints were driven from Jackson County, Missouri, the Lord declared that this was due, in part, to the transgressions of the people—speaking of the Church and not of individuals— and they were not united as required by the law of the celestial kingdom. In order to realize the grand objective of establishing Zion on the American continent, as commanded, it was necessary that this be done through living the law. (Ibid., 105:1-5.) The keeping of the commandments, including the Word of Wisdom, will bring sanctification to the Church and exaltation to the individual. QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Under what circumstances was the Word of Wisdom given? 2. Give several reasons why "the order and will of the Lord" requires obedience to that will by the members of the Church. 3. In what way is the observance of the Word of Wisdom related to the goal of perfection? 4. Name some ways in which observance of the Word of Wisdom brings spiritual benefits. How does individual obedience to the Word of Wisdom affect the Church?