December 1965 Lessons for March "MAGAZINE Volume 52 Number 1 For QL WMaskiind Mabel Jones Gabbott Of Time Into the midst of time, between the old Law and the new, he came as was foretold. Yet, all of time is his; his are the sun And starshine. All the measured hours that run Between are in his time... And so are we, And they who were the very first to see A sunset on the earth, or hear the birds Carol his praises; they who heard his words, And all who follow after to time's rim Before and since the blessed Christmas morn Are rich with time and life because of him. For unto all Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press ) Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: Palms in Winter, Photo by Don Knight Dick Scopes Mary Scopes ' Som 2 tar ttl Sy I want to thank you for the very suitable and charming illustration by Mary Scopes for my story ''A Dress for Sherry Lynn'"'. In the September issue of the Magazine. What a joy you must feel each month to turn out such a fine Magazine to send to ail corners of the world. Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho The Magazine is so special and something to be cherished always in our home. I read it from cover to cover almost as soon as it arrives and can hardly wait for it to come again. It - gives me beautiful thoughts to think of and to inspire me. Eva Kohkonen Helsinki, Finland I read The Relief Society Magazine each night and morning. There is so much to think about and study, and it is a wonderfully encouraging way to start and end a day. I! Have read the editorial on ''Self-Reliance,"' by Louise W. Madsen. I need that encouragement, especially now that my husband is gone. I am not so lost as before the book came. Mrs. Mildred Perkins Modesto, California The story "A Dress for Sherry Lynn," by Frances C. Yost (September 1965) calls for special commendation. It is a beautiful character study and represents a family attitude which would make our 'present society a sweet Utopia if practiced in the spirit of the story. Ruby A. Rex Logan, Utah The sisters here in the Timaru Branch do enjoy their copies of The Relief Society Magazine, and say they are gaining a comprehensive knowledge on many subjects. Alice R. Beach Timaru, New Zealand 882! Am not a Mormon, but have always been deeply interested in the history of the Mormons. Never have I seen a finer little Magazine. My doctor, Dr. Stephen Clark, is a Mormon, and it was in his office that I first saw copies of this Magazine. I have read and reread them, and now I am sending for my own subscription. Mrs. Hazel H. King Buena Park, California Thank you for a fine Magazine. The lessons seem particularly inspired, and I! Am looking forward to the future lessons as they will appear in the Magazine. I feel certain that the Relief Society sisters in our ward are the finest, sweetest women anywhere to be found, but I suppose that is a feeling common to the members everywhere. What a wonderful organization we have! Peggy St. Cyr Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Last April I received my first Relief Society Magazine as a gift from Mrs. Crystal Crow from California whose son Douglas was a missionary here. I was not a baptized member then, but I was baptized on July 25th, 1965 by my dear husband, and we both enjoy reading the wonderful Magazine and look forward to it every month, and my family and I will always be grateful to Sister Crow. Mrs. Margaret Davies Newport, Monmouth South Wales Just a short note of appreciation for the opportunity of reading The Relief Society Magazine during my mission. It contains wonderful thoughts of inspiration. Although most of our investigators speak Spanish, they enjoy looking through the Magazine, and they all look forward to the day when it will. Be published in Spanish. Elder Grant Davis Quezaltenango, Guatemala Central America rhe Relief Society econ 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving ald and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sait Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3,,1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.