[Vol52 | December 1965 | Page 884 | Special Feature | The Exalted Sphere of Woman Hugh | B. Brown]
The Exalted sphere of Woman President Hugh B. Brown Of The First Presidency mI am sure that you, being women, cannot appreciate what a mere man feels like, standing in your presence, nor can you appreciate what it means to try to follow so many excellent addresses as we have listened to today. All we can do is pray for guidance and for your sympathetic understanding. This morning at nine o'clock all of the General Authorities of the Church assembled in the Salt Lake Temple, preparatory to the coming conference. Talks were given, testimonies were borne, and a very fervent prayer was offered at the altar, where we prayed for the Relief Societies of the Church and for the success of this great conference. President McKay asked me to bring to you his love and blessing, and I asked if he had a special message. He said, '"'Just tell them that there is not another woman's organization in the world in any way comparable to the Relief Society," in which I heartily concur. You will be glad to know that President McKay is better, 884 (Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965) that he has been in meeting from nine o'clock until I left to come here at two o'clock, and they were still in meeting, and he was participating actively. We just hope he does not overdo before the conference. It is always a privilege and an honor to be asked to meet with this wonderful group of Relief Society workers in General Conference. There was a time when women met, despite determined opposition, to carry on _ their courageous fight for women's rights, sometimes secretly because repressed, and more often militantly and dangerously. But the fight was finally won and we men are proud of the great leadership which you, our fellow workers, have developed. In your courses of study, you have considered and been instructed in many subjects, including the responsibilities which these rights entail. Rights always involve responsibilities. Because of limitations of both time and capacity, I propose to confine my message to a consid- eration of the favored position of woman in the home and in the Church, and her obligations to her husband and children; how she can best magnify her calling and share in the blessings of the Priesthood; how she can improve and glorify not only her own person and status but that of her companion and family and, thereby, effectively serve the Master. Through the institution of marriage, which is ordained of God, men and women become partners in life's most difficult, most glorious and most responsible undertaking, the rearing of children to become valued members of society and workers in his kingdom. The home is the first schoolroom, and its lessons, good or bad, are carried: into later life and are as endurable as life itself. The family concept is one of the major and most important of our whole theological doctrine. Our concept of heaven itself is little more than a projection of the home and family life into eternity. What a tragedy when this divinely appointed institution is wrecked on the dangerous reefs of divorce. Great poems, novels, plays, great books of history and biology attempt to present the psychology and emotional aspects of marriage in the lives of individuals. These, together with voluminous case histories indicate that marriage at all times, in every culture, and in the widest variety of circumstances is one of the supreme tests of human character. Laws and customs represent only the external or social aspect of marriage.

No discussion of these externals can give any impression of the inwardness and depth of the problem which marTHE EXALTED SPHERE OF WOMAN riage imposes. In a recent issue of the Reader's Digest I read a pertinent reference to the failure of material things and mass organization to satisfy a prevailing unrest and unhappiness to be found among so many people in our time. The article declared that there is a secret citadel within all men and women of good will and to find it is an individual quest —the most urgent and significant quest of our lives. This secret citadel is our inner _ spiritual selves; it is the divine within us; in its discovery and promptings lie our only safeguards against discouragement and despair in the battle of life. It is in fact our only reliable security. May I pause to remind you of the last speaker telling us something of what experience means and how to meet problems. May I hold her up to you humbly as a wonderful example of how a woman can stand up against almost insuperable difficulties, heartbreak, bereavement, sorrow, and carry on valiantly. God bless Sister Spafford. The family is the central pillar of the Church, the key to the arch of civilization. But whether pillar or arch, it must be supported and maintained by the character and devotion of the contracting parties who, especially in the Church, covenant with each other and with God to jointly build, maintain, and glorify it by themselves, observing and helping all who become members of it to observe the Godgiven laws by which it is or should be regulated. I was deeply impressed by the discourse on love, and we were told we were to love the Lord with all our minds. This is a B85 DECEMBER 1965 challenge to every man, woman, and every child, for that matter, to prepare our minds for a comprehension of God, and, in that comprehension, to worship him, and this is a natural result of knowing him. So I commend to you the wisdom of preparing your minds, your spirits, for the great responsibility which has been mentioned today regarding the home. And what is the role of wife and mother in this glorious but stupendous undertaking? It is, first of all, to accept with deep gratitude the part which was assigned to her by a loving and all-wise Heavenly Father and yhen to spend her life trying to magnify her calling in humility and in love. She will solidify the very foundations of the home by inspiring, honoring, and sustaining her husband in righteousness, helping him to magnify his calling, to keep a proper sense of values and, together, achieve salvation, immortality, and eternal life for their celestial family. There was handed to me just recently a tribute from a son to a mother. This could be said of many, if not most, of you, but I would like to bring it to you as a testimony of that son as to what his mother had meant to him and to the rest of the family. Here's to Mother, Grandma, and Great-grandmother: Some are called to serve in front of the group, to be seen and praised' (well-deserved praise) of men. Mother belongs to that noble class of great souls who serve mainly behind the scenes without the plaudits of men. Her husband and their children have been the goal in her life. All of the time that Dad has been serving the Church, Mother has been making the great quality of his service possible. WithB86 ™~ out her selflessness, her guilelessness, her utter trust and devotion in him and in his work, little of what he has accomplished would have been possible. Here's to you Mother - the true power behind the throne - an helpmeet and an handmaiden - you have seen us all through joy and sorrow. The accomplishments of your husband and your offspring are your accomplishments. You have lived many lives in sweetness and serenity. I thought how that would apply to Sister Fletcher, who spoke to us this afternoon. The scriptures say that the man is not without the woman in the Lord. President Brigham Young said this: "And I would say, aS no man can be perfect without the woman, so no woman can be perfect without a man to lead her. I tell you the truth as it is in the bosom of eternity; and I say so to every man upon the face of the earth; if he wishes to be saved he cannot be saved without a woman by his side." Does this emphasize the importance of your task? In this blessed but difficult task, each wife and mother must daily and hourly seek divine guidance and pursue her tasks with the serenity and tranquility of one who is in contact with omnipotent power. I like the following stanza: I meet God in the morning, When my day is at its best, And His presence comes like sunshine, Like a glor'' in my breast! All day long His presence lingers, All day long He stays with me, And we sail in perfect calmness, O'er a sometimes troubled sea. So I think I know a secret, Learned from traveling down life's way— You must seek God in the morning, If you want him through the day. Women should never allow their role as mother to overshadow their role as wife. They are both obligations divinely imposed and they should be inseparable. Neither husband nor wife can coast in on the attainments of the other; salvation is a joint undertaking, a family affair. The wife becomes an integral part of her husband's ambitions and accomplishments; she is, in fact, his other — often better — half. She must keep pace with him, keep physically fit, intellectually stimulating, and spiritually inspiring, must understand what the Lord expects of him and help him to attain it. This is her privilege, and to some extent, at least, she will share the responsibility if there is failure. Some women have been heard to say that they feel cheated because they do not hold the Priesthood. To this complaint a granddaughter retorted, '""The men hold the Priesthood, but the women hold the men." And I think she had a point, for you have much to do with the success of your husbands. Yes, you can hold and you can mold them and for this task you have been divinely endowed. The apostle Paul said, in I Corinthians,.. Man is the image and glory of 'Ged: but the woman is the glory of the man. (I Corinthians 11:7). I hope you will remember that and let us lean on you a little more. We are great leaners. What great satisfaction comes into the soul of a woman who knows she has been instrumental in helping to open the heart and mind of a man to sympathetic understanding, that truth may THE EXALTED SPHERE OF WOMAN enter and love take control. There is no better way to worship and glorify God than by assisting his sons on the upward and difficult climb. This takes patience, tolerance, forbearance and other typically feminine virtues. To those of you whose husbands are not as active as they should be or as you desire them to be, remember again that the Lord has said, "For man is not without the woman in the Lord." My daughter has suggested that the word "not" should be spelled "naught," and really man is naught without the woman. You provoke us to good works, and though we, in turn, sometimes provoke you, your encouragement and unwavering faith are often all we have to keep us in the path of right. First we are encouraged by the influence and inspiration of our mothers and later that of our wives. From experience, I can truly testify that your inspiration and faith become our buckler and shield. This comes into the life of a man when he has a woman by his side who believes in him, encourages him, makes him think he can when he thinks he can't, and I speak from experience. We need the finest in you to support us when we feel weak and inadequate. From Father Adam on down through the ages men have needed to be inspired by the steadying influence and purifying power of women. ' The Prophet Joseph, in addressing the first Relief Society, said, '"'How precious are the souls of men! The female part of the community are apt to be contracted in their views. You must not be contracted, but you must be liberal in your feelings. Let this 


 Society teach women how to behave toward their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection."' And I may add, when a man is borne down with trouble, perplexed with care and difficulty, depressed and_ disheartened, if he can meet a smile instead of a murmur, a subdued but contagious optimism and faith, instead of complaint, when his mind is troubled and the storms of life seem to engulf him, the solace of affection and kindness of his wife will calm his soul, soothe his feelings and make him almost fit to live with. If you wives, mothers, and sisters exercise your privileges, the angels will become your associates and mentors, and you will have renewed courage, fortitude, and faith, and will become not only helpmates but both anchors and wings as well as charts and compasses. You are indispensable to rich and radiant living. So I say to you, sisters, don't give up because your men are not all you would wish them to be, but maintain your faith, not only in them but in your Heavenly Father's help and your own ability to fulfill your role as a helpmate. Never cease to work and pray for divine guidance in your divine calling. Thus may you hold your families together and prepare them for the eternities to come. To a great extent, the husband's success depends upon his wife's fitness. Government in the State and in the Church constitute an important part of the lives of the people, and the government in the home is the basis of all successful government. In the home, the mother is the principal disciplinarian and teacher in early life, and her influence determines, in a great measure, the ability of her children to succeed in manhood and womanhood in the larger responsibilities in Church and State. She is initially the instrument in the hands of providence to shape and guide the destinies of nations, because she trains the children while they are young and sends them out to accomplish the duties that are to devolve upon them. However, the husband and wife together are, by commandment, to teach their children the principles of the gospel. If they fail to do this, they assume grave responsibilities. In selecting men to occupy responsible positions in the Church, it sometimes happens that a useful and competent man is barred from consideration because of the want of fitness in the wife. Although a wife may not actually bar a husband's opportunities, she may prove a great hindrance to him in the discharge of his duties, which are, in fact, joint duties that belong to his office. But, much more frequently, as we travel about the Church, we find that the wife proves to be his chief counselor and adviser. We thank the Lord for the quality, stability, and faith of our sisters. Sisters, seek to be educated in the highest meaning of the term. The Church abjures ignorance and acclaims intelligence. Get the most possible service out of your time, your body, and your brain, and let all your efforts be directed into honorable channels that no effort shall be wasted and no labor result in loss or evil. Seek the very best society, be kind, polite, agreeable, seeking always to learn whatever is good and comprehend the duties of life that you may be a blessing to your companion, thus placing your lot in life on a par with his. There are people fond of saying that women are the weaker instruments, but I don't believe it. Physically they may be, but spiritually, morally, religiously, and in faith, what man can match a woman who is really converted to the gospel! Women are more willing to make sacrifices than are men, "more patient in suffering, more earnest in prayer." They are the peers and often superior to men in resilience, in goodness, in morality, and in faith. When I reflect upon the duties and _ responsibilities devolving upon our mothers, wives, and sisters, and the influence they wield, I look upon them as the mainspring, the soul of life. It is true that man is supposed to stand at the head, but he must be worthy of that trust. Father Adam was placed here on earth as king of the earth to bring it into subjection, but when Mother Eve came she brought an endowment which he lacked; she made him whole and made it possible for him to fulfill the purpose of his creation. Mothers and wives inspire high ambition, give zest to the whole man and help to shape and guide his destinies. The role of wife and mother is a self-sacrificing role, and because this is so, 2 woman comes closer to understading and emulating the life of the Master who, Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him (Hebrews 5:8-9). THE EXALTED SPHERE OF WOMAN A worthy and devoted mother qualifies to receive all the blessings mentioned in the Beatitudes. She is humble and teachable, she is pure in heart, she often mourns and is ever meek. She hungers and thirsts after righteousness and is uniformly merciful. She is a peacemaker, and, shifting to the Epistle of Paul, she suffereth long and is kind, she envieth not, vaunteth not herself, is not puffed up. She rejoiceth not in iniquity but rejoiceth in the truth. She beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, and endureth all things. She thus becomes an ideal member of the _ Relief Society. Because of her, charity never faileth. Let each Relief Society worker ask herself whether she is providing, first, the spiritual foundations for her children, foundations upon which they may build the superstructure which will stand at the last day when the winds of doubt and confusion beat upon their house, when only those founded upon the rock of eternal truth shall stand. Referring again to a former speaker's words, "All houses are beat upon sooner or later by the storms of life." One of the most inspiring thoughts in this connection is that the storms beat upon the house that is on the rock as well as the one on the sand, and the fact that your house is built upon the rock will not excuse you from the lessons that the storms have to teach. Thinking of our privileges, obligations, and responsibilities as they affect our lives in the world to come, the words of President John Taylor are pertinent: It is the gospel that teaches a woman that she has a claim upon a 


 man, and a man that he has a claim upon a woman in the resurrection; it is the gospel that teaches them that, when they rise from the tombs in the resurrection, they will again clasp hands, be reunited, and again participate in that glory for which God designed them before the world was. I can personally testify to the influence of a good mother and a good wife; in fact, I think I must be somewhat of a specialist in this matter of women; I had seven sisters, six daughters, one mother, and one wife, and fourteen granddaughters, and some great granddaughters. I speak, then, from experience when I tell you that you have a choice assignment; you are favored of the Lord; he couldn't be everywhere so he sent you. God bless you that you will measure up to your assignment. Now I know that some of you are wondering what we are going to say to the men about this. If you will come to the Priesthood meeting Saturday night, you will know. I, for one, propose to hold up to the men the grave responsibilities that rest upon any man who marries a. Woman, who fathers a child, who holds the Priesthood that he may honor it and, in honoring it, may honor God. We commend and congratulate this great organization of women. You have a world-wide reputation and responsibility. We are proud of your outstanding leaders. They are honored and respected by women's organizations throughout the world. We pray the Lord's blessing upon them and upon you loyal and efficient stake and mission officers and upon all members of this powerful and efficient arm of the Church. As we sing together, 'Home, Sweet Home," let us resolve to go home and have our regular home night, study the lessons that have been prepared, and lead our children in a circle of prayer, that they may-come to know God: and: to bask in the sunlight of. His love, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.