[Vol52 | December 1965 | Page 899 | Poem | At Christmas Time | Pauline M. Bell]
Ant you to know that I can't After nry had finished eadTemember a More berfect Christng, ther Was a hushed Silence mas,"' —____ At Christmas Tim Pauline M. Belj Christmas 'S made of Many things— Hope and qd Ms to he family glad Happy Children, bells th t 4 Som rees Olored lights nd Caroled we Frost UPON the Window Scenes Our kindreq a I nd their 8ifts of love, Million little Stars 9 Snow. Yet long we sha And foreve 899 Brownie Bernice Brown oe @ Mother's tree put on its Christmas hat every December. The rest of the year it was a plain, everyday blue spruce doing sentry duty on our front lawn. In the beginning, when we three children were small, it wasn't much to rave, about. Short, stubby, and spindly... But the tree grew along with us. Memory has obscured the exact year Mother decided to light the tree. But I remember her brown eyes sparkling as she watched from the window while Dad and our brother strung the lights like holly berries around and around the spreading blue-green branches. When all was ready, Mother flicked the switch, and we all stepped back in awe as our little old everyday tree became a magic tree ablaze with lights. Located as it was on a hill, and twinkling like the stars in the black sky above its head, the tree signaled the arrival of Christmas to homes for miles around. As the years hurried by, the tree became harder to light, its branches shooting up until' they seemed to strain against the sky itself. But the tree was always lighted. Mother later added some novel, flickering, "on-off" lights to delight the small grandchildren who had joined the family circle. The lighting of "'grandma's tree'? Became a local symbol of the Christmas season. Its gay lights were visible for miles in the clear frosty air. It heralded the arrival of the "season to be jolly" to an entire town. Then came last year. December inched closer and closer into the Christmas season. The tree remained dark—only icy patches of snow ornamented its branches.