[Vol52 | December 1965 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: I Love Life | Author: Zara Sabin,]
I  Love  Life 
Zara  Sabin 
Life!   I  love  it, 
All  there  is  of  it: 
Its  winds  and  its  rains, 
Its  high  hills  and  plains, 
Its  days  that  are  fair — 
Red  roses  everywhere. 
All  there  is  of  it. 
This  life,   I  love  it. 
908

cHort  J\Aany 
Vays  Dill 
Christmas  ? 
Janet  W.  Breeze 
■  The  yearly  joyful  suspense  leading  up  to  Christmas  is  one  of  the 
most  exciting  events  of  childhood.  And  the  extra  little  fun  things 
that  mothers  and  grandmothers  do  to  enhance  the  anticipation, 
create  lasting  memories  for  starry-eyed  youngsters. 
Here  is  a  new  twist  to  the  old  European  custom  of  celebrating  the 
pre-Christmas  that  can  be  fun  for  the  whole  family.  Instead  of  a 
calendar  or  numbered  scene  which  helps  count  the  suspenseful  days, 
decorate  your  dining  room  table,  or  some  corner  of  the  house,  with  a 
"Sugar  Plum"  tree. 
First,  find  a  small,  but  sturdy,  tree  limb  which  can  be  successfully 
sprayed  silver,  gold,  green,  or  any  other  color  you  desire.  At  the 
same  time,  paint  one  candy  box  or  shoe  box  for  each  anxious  child. 
(And  we  suggest  spray  painting  outdoors,  if  at  all  possible.)  When 
the  paint  is  dry,  "plant"  your  tree  in  a  foil-covered  container  in 
which  you  have  placed  a  ball  of  modeling  clay.  Fill  the  container 
with  rocks  to  prevent  the  tree's  tipping  with  the  weight  of  decorations. 
Next,  give  each  child  in  the  family  a  supply  of  old  Christmas  cards 
or  colored  construction  paper,  glue,  and  glitter,  so  he  can  make  one 
decoration  for  each  allotted  day  until  Christmas.  Decorations  cut 
from  old  cards  or  made  from  paper  should  have  a  small  hole  punched 
in  the  top  end  for  threading  through  a  strong  loop,  ornament  book,  or 
wire,  for  attaching  to  the  tree. 
In  addition  to  paper  decorations,  each  child's  collection  could  also 
include  small  silver  bells,  candy  canes,  small  packages  of  raisins, 
little  colored  paper  sacks  containing  sugared  cereal,  nuts,  or  other 
Christmas  treats. 
When  the  decorations  are  complete,  they  are  safely  tucked  away  in 
the  boxes  which  were  painted  earlier.  Each  child  can  decorate  and 
personalize  his  own  box  as  desired. 
Now  for  the  best  part.  Trim  the  tree  with  as  many  pieces  of  candy, 
raisin  boxes,  cereal  bags,  etc.,  as  there  are  days  till  Christmas  times 
the  number  of  children.  Then  —  every  day  —  each  child  gets  to 
exchange  one  decoration  from  his  box  for  one  goody  on  the  tree. 
Christmas  Eve,  the  last  exchange  is  made,  and  Christmas  is  finally 
here!  When  the  holidays  are  past,  strip  your  tree  of  its  seasonal 
items  and  save  for  that  preschooler  who  keeps  asking,  "How  many 
days  till  my  birthday  V 
909

Lauretta  Wells  Craner,  Burley,  Idaho,  lives  on  a  farm  and  enjoys  the  beauty  of 
fields  and  flowers,  her  garden,  and  her  home.  She  has  won  many  awards  at  the 
county  fair  for  her  cooking,  sewing,  and  flower  arrangements,  but  she  is  best- 
known  for  her  remarkable  skill  as  a  quilter  and  a  designer  of  quilts.  One  of  her 
quilts,  exquisitely  made,  tells  the  story  of  Lauretta's  marriage  to  John  Craner 
and  the  events  of  her  later  life.  Another  quilt  features  an  arrangement  of  tulips 
in  rich  and  glowing  color.  Her  patchwork  quilts,  she  says,  are  stitched  with 
memory. 
Her  appreciation  for  beauty  and  order  is  evidenced  in  her  well-kept  home, 
where  pillowcases,  dish  towels,  and  handmade  aprons  exhibit  the  art  of  a  de- 
voted homemaker.  "I  want  to  keep  my  home  always  beautiful,"  she  says,  "and 
especially  at  this  time  when  my  husband,  who  is  ill,  needs  encouragement  and 
cheerfulness  around  him." 
Mrs.  Craner  has  been  active  in  all  the  women's  auxiliaries  of  the  Church.  All 
of  her  married  life  she  has  been  either  a  visiting  teacher  or  a  member  of  the  ward 
presidency  of  Relief  Society.  Now,  at  the  age  of  seventy,  she  is  president  of  the 
Star  Ward  Relief  Society.  For  many  years  she  has  kindly  ministered  to  the  sick 
and  the  bereaved,  and  has  opened  the  doors  of  her  home  to  those  in  need.  She 
is  the  mother  of  nine,  grandmother  to  forty-two,  and  great-grandmother  to  fifty- 
five. 
910