[Vol52 | December 1965 | Page 909 | Home | How Many Days Till Christmas? Janet | W. Breeze]
[How Many Days Till Christmas? Janet W. Breeze]
[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of two children looking at a Christmas tree with ornaments]

How Many Days Till Christmas?

Janet W. Breeze

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of two children looking at a Christmas tree with ornaments]

■ The yearly joyful suspense leading up to Christmas is one of the most exciting events of childhood. And the extra little fun things that mothers and grandmothers do to enhance the anticipation, create lasting memories for starry-eyed youngsters.

Here is a new twist to the old European custom of celebrating the pre-Christmas that can be fun for the whole family. Instead of a calendar or numbered scene which helps count the suspenseful days, decorate your dining room table, or some corner of the house, with a "Sugar Plum" tree.

First, find a small, but sturdy, tree limb which can be successfully sprayed silver, gold, green, or any other color you desire. At the same time, paint one candy box or shoe box for each anxious child. (And we suggest spray painting outdoors, if at all possible.) When the paint is dry, "plant" your tree in a foil-covered container in which you have placed a ball of of modeling clay. Fill the container with rocks to prevent the tree's tipping with the weight of decorations.

Next, give each child in the family a supply of old Christmas cards or colored construction paper, glue, and glitter, so he can make one decoration for each allotted day until Christmas. Decorations cut from old cards or made from paper should have a small hole punched in the top end for threading through a strong loop, ornament hook, or wire, for attaching to the tree.

In addition to paper decorations, each child's collection could also include small silver bells, candy canes, small packages of raisins, little colored paper sacks containing sugared cereal, nuts, or other Christmas treats.

When the decorations are complete, they are safely tuck away in the boxes which were painted earlier. Each child can decorate and personalize his own box as desired.

Now for the best part. Trim the tree with as many pieces of candy, raisin boxes, cereal bags, etc., as there are days till Christmas times the number of children. Then — every day — each child gets to exchange one decoration from his box for one goody on the tree. Christmas Eve, the last exchange is made, and Christmas is finally here! When the holidays are past, strip your tree of its seasonal items and save for that preschooler who keeps asking, "How many days till my birthday?"

909
