[Vol52 | December 1965 | Page 942 | Lesson | VRiosbiitnisnogn Teacher Message — "Cease to Find Fault One With Another" | Christine H.]
TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants itt ij Christine H. Robinson Message 70—''Cease to Find Fault One With Another' (D&C 88:124). For First Meeting, March 1966 Objective: To emphasize the importance of building and uplifting others by focusing attention upon their good qualities. @ One of the most noble accomplishments in this world is to exercise a constructive, uplifting influence upon others. To touch a soul and to encourage that soul to reach for loftier heights is far more important than to build monuments of stone or steel. No one of us is without influence. All of us touch the lives of those about us for good or for ill. If we concentrate upon and emphasize the good qualities that another possesses, we not only enlarge and ennoble our own character, but we help another to live upward and outward and to develop the best that is within her. On the other hand, if we seek to find fault we soon find that our own personalities become warped. Our criticism, moreover, has a down-grading effect upon the person with whom we have found fault. 942 In speaking of faultfinding, President McKay has said that each of us should perform his duty honestly and conscientiously. We should not interfere with another who is doing something in a different way. When we spend our time finding fault with others, we neglect our own responsibilities and our souls become embittered, our minds distorted, our judgments faulty, and our spirits depressed. (Pathways to Happiness, page 86.) That is why the Lord has commanded us to "Cease to find fault one with another." That is why the wise Solomon, in describing seven things that the Lord hates, pointed out that five of the seven are directly connected with faultfinding. Solomon listed these as, " a lying tongue... An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in runCe — ning to mischief, A false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren" (Proverbs 6:17-19). Our Father in heaven has placed great emphasis on the value of a soul. He knows the potential that lies within us. He knows, as his sons and daughters, we may become perfect, even as he is perfect, if we concentrate on and magnify the fine qualities that each of us possesses. To do this, we should form the habit of looking only for the good qualities in those with whom we associate, rather than seeing all their faults. It is easy for us to slip into the error of faultfinding. Often in attempting to cover up our own weaknesses, we may try to justify or rationalize them by looking for the same faults in others. This thought is expressed in the anonymous poem which has become a Latter-day Saint hymn: Let each man learn to know himself; To gain that knowledge let him labor, Improve those failings in himself Which he condemns so in his neighbor. How lenient our own faults we view, And conscience's voice adeptly smother, Yet, oh, how harshly we review The selfsame failings in another! Example sheds a genial ray Of light which men are apt to borrow, So first improve yourself today And then improve your friends tomorrow. (Hymns, Church of Jesus-Christ of Latter-day Saints, page 91) The story is told about a church edifice in Germany which LESSON DEPARTMENT is famous for its beautiful stainedglass windows. These windows, when viewed with the clear rays of the sun shining through them, are marvelous indeed. Many people are touched by their beauty. Yet, many other visitors who do not take the time to look at the windows from the right angle, or who see them on a dark and foggy day, are disillusioned and dissatisfied. They see nothing to admire. And only find fault with the church building. So it is with many of us. In evaluating our friends' and neighbors' personalities and characters, we fail to view their accomplishments in the sunlight and glow of charity. We do not take the time and patience to look into their hearts. We let our vision of them become clouded and dimmed through misunderstanding. Let us "'cease to find fault one with another" and look only for the good in others. Let us realize that often the mistakes of another might have been our own had we been influenced by similar circumstances. Let us oft speak kind words to and of each other. Let us seek to build up one another, to give encouragement and _ appreciation when it is due. Let us always remember the words of the Lord when he said, '"'Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over... For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again" (Luke 6:38). 943 Hazel S. Cannon (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness For Second Meeting, March 1966 Objective: To show that cleanliness js the foundation in building a lovely Physical environment for the family. Specific help on different cleaning Schedules will be presented in the next lesson, which will be a continuation of "Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness,."' INTRODUCTION ber optimal health and happiness, Is there anything more SatisfyEvery Latter-day Saint homeing than a clean house—sparkmaker should strive to set a ling windows, immaculately clean standard of cleanliness of which corners and baseboards, fresh, she can be proud—a_ standard -weet-smelling beds, and beauti. Which says, I love my home. I ful clean floors? Cleanliness can want my children to remember be achieved only through effec. A house that shines." tive planning, know-how, and The homemaker _ Should aswork. Sume the initiative In determinRegard housework as a priving the standard she feels is lege and a creative experience. Consistent _with her particular Look upon the skills of cleaning family. This will be affected by a house not as goals in themthe Individual family Setup: (1) Selves, but as a means to securfamily members — the number, ing comfort, beauty, and happy ages, their health, Interests, acrelationships in the home. Livities, and how they share SET YOUR STANDARD size and condition of the house; A standard is your rule for (3) the season of the year and measurement of cleanliness, and climate; and (4) the efficiency has to do chiefly with the result Of cleaning ©quipment, materials, you wish to obtain. It goes with. And methods used. Out saying that the quality of housekeeping done in the home cleaning standard should insure each family memfamily: Father who is ward clerk: mother who is ward Relief Society