[Vol52 | December 1965 | Page 892 | Special Feature | Lucile P. Peterson Julia Rae | P. Keith]
~ Lucile P. Peterson Appointed to the General Board Julia Rae P. Keith Our family rejoiced at Mother's (Lucile P. Peterson's) appointment to the Relief Society General Board, September 29, 1965. She has been training for such a position all her life. Mother was born in Ogden, Utah. Her father, Chauncey Parry, died when she was four years old, and her mother, Julia E. Hutchens Parry, reared her seven children, teaching them the principles of the gospel. Grandmother spent thirty years as ward and stake Relief Society president in the North Weber Stake. When thirteen years old, Mother's Church service began. She has been president of the ward Primary, YWMIA, Relief Society, and stake Relief Society. My father, M. Blaine Peterson, and mother were married in the Salt Lake Temple during the depression years. He enrolled in law school in Washington, D. C., and when they returned to Utah they had a law degree and two young children. Father has had Mother's willing support in all his Church and civic activities. During the years he spent in the United States Congress, as Representative of the First Congressional District of Utah, she had many interesting experiences. As president of the Chevy Chase Ward Relief Society, in Maryland, she worked closely with the missionaries. Our home has been one of love and understanding. My brother, Major Richard B., who married Joan Hinckley Willes, is a radiologist in the Army Hospital in Landstuhl, Germany. I attended Brigham Young University, and married Bill G. Keith in the temple. Thomas P., who is attending Weber State College, served in the North German Mission as assistant to the mission president. MaryLu is a sophomore at Brigham Young University. Mother attended Weber College, Utah State University, and studied a year in New York. She served as secretary to the President, the Board of Trustees, and the Alumni Association of Weber College. She is presently a member of the Board of Trustees of Weber State College, and is on the Coordinating Council of Higher Education of Utah. She and Father are active on the Parents Committee of Brigham Young University. May our Heavenly Father continue to bless her in her new calling.