DEAR EDITOR:
	We felt a desire to state through the columns
of our valuable paper, the great success we had
in our Sevier Stake Primary Fairs this year.
	Last Spring, before paying our annual visit to
the different associations, we decided to hold
fairs and concerts in the several districts of the
Stake, in order that the children might have an
opportunity of visiting their Fair and seeing their
articles, which they had made. So, consequently,
while traveling around, we made our desires
known to presidents and children, which pleased
them very much, and we promised to see all of
them, if circumstances would permit.
	The first Fair was held in Glenwood, on Sept.
13th and 14th, with Richfield 1st and 2nd Ward,
Wallsburg and Vermillion. In the evening they
gave a concert. To name all the articles would
be impossible. The furniture from the boys was
excellent; a secretary table and clothes-horse
would have done credit to larger boys; also the
many articles of plain sewing, fancy work, knit-
ting, and a home-made straw hat, trimmed and
all by a small girl, showed wonderful industry on
the part of the girls—cakes and cooking of all
descriptions. We were treated to an operatta
by the 2nd Ward of Richfield (Grandma's Birth-
day), which we enjoyed very much.
	On the 17th we started for Salina, where, on the
18th, the Associations of Redmond, Aurora and
Salina were represented. Here also, we were
much surprised at the many articles made by
such small boys and girls; also the vegetables and
cooking were excellent, and such delicious fruits
we scarcely thought Sevier County could produce;
but as we were standing looking at a large
cabbage, our hearts were made sad, for we were
told that the little boy who raised it had died.
Tears started to our eyes, and we felt to say, "In
the midet of life we are in death." God bless his
poor mother. The concert in the evening was 
good, but we were somewhat disappointed in not
seeing more Primary children perform.
	From there we went to Elsinore, and on the 20th
the Associations of Monroe, Inverury, Anabella,
Joseph and Elsinore were represented. As we
entered the pleasant meeting house, and saw the
long rows of different kinds of work, both by boys
and girls, a large table to cakes, pies, butter,
honey, etc., we thought surely we were blessed,
and as we turned to the left and saw a handsome
rug, made by the Elsinore Primary Association
and presented to Sister Heppler, our feelings
could not be expressed, and tears of thankfulness
filled our eyes, and we thought how each little
heart beat with fond expectation as they plied the
needle. Oh, how much pleasure there is in trying
to make others happy. In the evening we were
treated to a very fine concert by the children of
the different wards, and an operatta ("Conquered
by Kindness"), from the Elsinore Ward, which
was splendid; also a touching address by a little
girl to Sister Heppler, which moistened many an
eye in the audience, and we felt to say, "God bless
the dear children!"
	From there we started for home: rested a few
days and then commenced our journey over the


hills. We expected to have a Fair in Koosharem,
but on account of measles they could not hold one
there, so we crossed the mountains, arriving at
Loa on the 26th.
	Next morning we were pleased to see Fremont,
East Loa and Loa represented in a very fine Fair.
We noticed, as in the others, some very good
yarn, which was spun by small girls, and four pairs
of stockings knit by a little girl from Fremont
Ward. The boys here had not such a display,
but it being rather a new feature, we presume the
next time they will do better. There was some
very good cooking; also fancy work and vege-
tables. Here they held their exercises in the
afternoon, because of the distance the children
had to come, and they were very good.
	The next morning we started for Thurber,
where, on the 29th, the Teasdale and Thurber
Wards were represented, and for two such small
settlements the Fair was indeed splendid. The
meeting house nicely decorated, and tables well
filled with some very praiseworthy work. Here,
also, they held their exercises in the afternoon,
which were very well done. In the evening we
attended a dance, as we also did at Loa, and
although not dancing much ourselves, yet the
spirit of sociability was marked; it reminded us of
the dances of long ago, when style was not so
much observed. 
	The next day being Sabbath we rested and at-
tended meeting. On Monday we started for home,
arriving on Tuesday night, feeling that we had
never enjoyed ourselves better on any former trip,
being so kindly entertained, both by parents and
children, and having such delightful weather;
both body and mind were refreshed.
	It would be impossible in this article to men-
tion all the beaatiful things we saw; suffice it to
say, our children are improving in this great Prim-
ary work more than we dream of.
	The Young Ladies also had a table from each
ward, and the excellent plain sewing, knitting,
spinning, cooking and fancy work could not have
been surpassed; home made hats, suits of men's
clothes, counterpanes, etc., and a large tippet
made of turkey feathers, was a novelty; it was as
handsome as fur. At Elsinore we saw a young
lady making thread lace.
	Great credit is due the officers of the Primary
and Young Ladies' Associations for the grand
success of the Stake Fairs this year.
		LOUISANNA HEPPLER,
		LUCY BELL,
