SENATOR CALL'S SPEECH.

	October 2nd, 1888, Senator Call, of Florida,
made the following speech upon the appropria-
tion of $80,000 for the Industrial Home in
this city, which is printed as reported in the 
Congressional Record:

	Mr. Call—I voted for this appropriation, not
only as a member of the Committee on Educa-
tion and Labor when it was first considered,
but also as a member of the Committee on Ap-
propriations and of the Senate. I objected 
to and would now object to and vote against
the legislation of this body persecuting these
people because they had certain religious views
[Column 2]
or views on the subject of religion which were
opposed to my own and to those of our people 
generally. I consider that in all that legisla-
tion we not only violated the Constitution, but 
we violated all the principles of civil liberty
upon which our institutions are founded. I 
have never changed that opinion. I think we 
went back eighteen hundred years in the pro-
gress of the world to the days of barbarism, to
use the courts, the civil power of the State, to 
compel by force a change in the opinions of 
men upon the subject of faith or of their reli-
gion.
	The Constitution says we shall take no action
whatever, exercise no power of government re-
specting the establishment of religion, and yet
the language of this bill is plain and direct,
offering inducements to leave the Mormon
Church. We have forgotten even that we 
have no power to legislate upon the subject of
a man's belief on the subject of religion,
whether it be true or untrue, and so in all this
legislation in which we have prepared a preju-
diced jury, in which we have prepared a preju-
diced judge, and selected him for the purpose 
of trying men of different opinions on the 
subject of religion from himself, we have viola-
ted not only the principles of the Constitution,
but we have violated all the institutions upon
which our present civilization is founded, and
we only need to go a few steps further to intro-
duce the power of the state to punish in direct 
terms a man for being a Methodist, or a 
Catholic, or a Presbyterian, or for holding
some different form of faith from that which
that dominant party in the state may profess.
	But, Mr. President, I approve the principle
of the legislation in this appropriation. If 
the Mormons are to be converted, or any other
set of people, it is to be in accordance with 
the divine religion of Christ, by persuasive
methods, and not by the exercise of power.
The legislation of this body has done more to 
perpetuate polygamy and establish it by mak-
ing martyrs of them than any and all other
causes and instrumentalities that could have
been brought together. 
	We live in an age in which the principles of 
Christian tolerance, the teachings of Christ
that the sword is not the power to create
opinion, to produce conviction, but it is argu-
ment, it is the preaching of the divine word, it
is the missionary, and not the power of the 
sword, and the power of the civil law. The
law by which these courts are established and
vested with unusual powers cannot be distin-
guished from the exercise of the power of the 
state in creating the Spanish Inquisition as an
arm of the civil power to compel observance
of a particular faith. The two are precisely
the same, and no argument can distinguish be-
tween the legislation of Congress in respect to 
the Mormons and the exercise of the civil 
power of the state in the shape of the Inquisi-
tion to suppress another religion or faith, either 
by delegating it to an eccleiastical body or 
exercising it directly.
	The constructions of law under which these
people have been tried and punished, if cor-
rectly reported, are a lasting shame and dis-
grace to our country and to the administration
of the law, and to ourselves for permitting it to 
continue. I have seen it stated by persons
said to be reputable in character and truthful,
that men and women have been convicted and
sentenced for unlawful cohabitation upon 
proof alone that they had contributed to the 
support of the families, the women and children 
toward whom they had at some former period
of time sustained the polygamous relation,
and that in other cases women had been sen-
tenced and imprisoned because they thought it
proper to refuse to disclose the name of the 
man towards whom they had sustained these
relations.
	But this legislation providing a home for the
[Column 3]
people who may be convinced that they are 
pursuing a wrong method of life and a criminal 
one, of providing a home for the women and 
children who may be left destitute in conse-
quence of a change of life, met the approval
of my judgment. It was in the line of per-
suasion, in the line of the only successful
policy, of the policy convincing the moral
sentiment which the Almighty has provided as 
the means of reformation for all men every-
where. It cannot be that you can change 
opinion, thought, by power, by oppression, by 
persecution, by the sword; by compelling men
to believe. This is the method of the stake,
the iron boot, the fearful implements of the 
cruelty and crime of the Dark Ages, and 
these we adopted in place of the gentle persua-
sion of the divine Christ.
	Mr. President, if the statements of the Sena-
tor from Main are true, it is the severest
arraignment of this body that could possibly
be made. Can it be that the Senate of the
United States and the House of Representa-
tives have sat here and allowed such a condi-
tion of things to exist as the instances de-
scribed by him represent? Is it true that peo-
ple convinced of the error of their lives and 
subjected to extreme cruelty, have been com-
pelled to remain in that condition for the want 
of even the ordinary necessaries of life? Is it 
true that children of twelve years of age are
 compelled to enter into polygamous and unlaw-
ful marriages, and the Senate and Senators
from Maine and Vermont have quietly re-
mained here providing no legislation but these 
denunciations of the Mormon people? If 
these statements be true, the evidence should
be obtained and prompt legislation provided
by which that evil should not exist a day longer
—the evil of a people honestly desiring to con-
form to the laws and yet unable to do it be-
cause the laws have provided no efficient meth-
ods for their protection and their subsistence.
	I am not ready to believe these statements.
I do not believe that polygamy, however
wrongful it is of necessity and in itself, de-
stroys the natural love and affection which the 
Divine Being has implanted in the human
heart, that charity can not exist where it pre-
vails. We derive our religion from a poly-
gamous people. I have been taught to rever-
ence the Scriptures of the Old and New Testa-
ment as a divine revelation and the characters 
they present as the highest types of humanity.
And while we believe with the confidence of 
knowledge that our Christianity is the true and 
higher civilization and the only true religion,
it is not necessary that we should halt and de-
nounce those who differ from us in faith and 
practice. I do not believe that either amongst 
the Mormons or any other people surrounded 
by the influence of modern civilization such 
cruelties would be permitted. 
	There are two sides to these statements; the 
Mormons deny them, their representative denies 
them in a speech delivered in the House of 
Representatives. Travelers and men of high
standing both in our own and foreign countries
profess to have examined carefully into this 
subject, and describe these people as a mild 
and truthful, industrious and virtuous people,
comparing very favorably in many respects
with the people of other countries, save only 
in the permission for polygamous life and re-
presenting that to be limited in practice. I 
do not know anything as to the truth of these
statements either on one side or the other, but
I am not willing to bear false witness against
any one or to condemn without full and fair
evidence on both sides.
	I have never seen a Mormon except those 
who have been here before the two Houses of 
Congress, and it is only just to say that these
had the appearance and manner of intelligent,
educated and kindly men. I have never known 
but one of their faith, and his family life in


[Column 1]
this community was in all respects like our
own, and his charities aud personal character-
istics such as gave him respectful consideration
and regard of excellent persons of our own
Christian faith who are themselves of unblem-
ished life and reputation. I am not willing,
therefore, that my vote for this appropriation
shall be placed upon the ground that these 
people are destitute of all the moral virtues
and all the kindly sympathies of humanity.
	I do not believe it. I vote for this appropria-
tion because I wish to provide every possible
agency to give full and free influence
to the persuasive power of the divine teachings
of Christ, and furnish the opportunity to all
who wish to leave the polygamous life to do so, 
basing the law to be enforced against the prac-
tice of polygamy amongst them as amongst
other people, in the spirit of fairness and
justice, in  gentleness and in mercy, and not
with the cruelty and violence of either the re-
ligious or the political bigot. I have more
faith in the persuasive power of the gospel of
Christ and the Christian ministry than in all
terms of the law, even when enforced with the 
thumb-screw and the stake, the dagger of St.
Bartholmew's massacre and Coligni's assasin,
or all the thousand cruelties which stain the 
pages of history, and which we are beginning
to repeat.
	Mr. President, we had better enact some
legislation in this direction. We had better
ascertain the facts. I am in favor of an ap-
propriation, however large it may be, to pro-
vide a home and substance and employment
for any of these people who may be convinced
that their methods of life are improper and un-
lawful. Opposed as I am to persecution and
disgraceful persecution, if I had the power I
would remove the judges and the civil officers
who have been guilty of crime themselves, if
the statements I have read be true, of a distor-
tion of the law by the severity of the punish-
ment of these peeple. I read an instance in 
the memorial presented in aid of this very 
bill, of a woman and a child, a woman of 
eighteen years of age, I think, with an infant
of three months, confined in the jail, and that
infant dying of measles, because she would not
reveal the name of the man with whom she 
had been led into this improper relation, suffer-
ing and dying, the memorial states, and there
was no charity, no kindness from the judge or
the marshal or any one towards this poor
young mother confined there like a common 
felon, a disgrace to civilization and a disgrace
to humanity and fo those who have the power
to correct it. 
	But, Mr. President, the question here is
whether the public money shall be placed in
private hands with no responsibility except by
a bond for carrying out these purposes. In
the English law it was found necessary to pro-
vide a system of visitation, even of private
foundations of charity. It was found that the
abuses which followed these institutions in
private hands were so great as to pervert and
defeat the purposes of the founder until a
power of visitation was exercised by the courts
and prescribed by the statutes.
	Why, then, should we depart from that
course and vest the power of disbursement of
this money in the hands of these individuals
without any authority on the part of the
Treasury officials to supervise or direct it? It
seems to me that the answer is clear to those
who sincerely desire the conversion of these
people, who desire to furnish protection to 
those who wish to leave, who recognize the
power of the Christian religion (which the
legislation upon this subject denies) to convert
and persuade those people who believe in
Christ and Christ's religion and not in the per-
secutions which this body and the other House
have established against these people. Those
who believe as I do in Christ's commission,

[Column 2]
"Go ye into all nations and preach the Gos-
pel," and who desire the success of this charity
and to protect these people when the power of
the Christian faith may convert them, as it
will convert them, would have the Government 
retain in its control over the expenditure of
this money.
	If you choose to give this building or the
use of it to this charitable organization, I shall
have no objection, and should support a pro-
vision of that kind, provided they exercise
that charity in the spirit of love and not of de-
nunciation, not of hatred and bitter reproach;
provided they remember that the evil of
which they complain is not now for the first
time known to the civilization of the world, 
that the Christian religion has been fighting it
successfully for eighteen hundred years, not
with the sword and the stake, but with the
teachings of Christ and that the religion
of Christ alone has reclaimed hundreds 
of missions of people from the practice
of the greater part of the world who have 
lived in polygamy and with whom it has been
an institution—England and those who derive
their civilization from her.
	Mr. President, there has been too much of
political persecution in this matter, and too
little of Christian faith and Christian practice.
Let the government appropriate its money, let
it build this house, let it make ample provis-
ion for all who shall be convinced that the
Christian system is the true one, and make it
ample for the industrial education and subsist-
ence of these people for a reasonable time,
that this experiment may be promptly tried,
but let it be done by the government and 
under the supervision of bonded officers of the
government, and then, if we choose, give the
management of this charity to these people 
whose purposes, I have no reason to doubt, are
correct, and those of philanthropy and of good
to mankind; but let it be required to be done
in the spirit and according to the precepts of
the religion of Christ.
	*	As far as I am concerned I have no 
particular objection to the provision passing
in the shape in which the Senator from Maine
desires it; but I wish to state that I did not say
there was no precedent for such an appropria-
tion of money. I say it is not a custom of the
government, I say it is not a good, wise public
policy. It has been done in the District of 
Columbia, which is under the immediate super-
vision of Congress. There is some difference 
between this district and a remote Territory,
which has a Territorial government and an au-
tonomy of its own, even though it be subject
to the supervising authority of Congress. But
be it a precedent or not, except in the case of
an established charity, it is a bad precedent to
appropriate a sum of money and put it in the
hands of private individuals for the construc-
tion of buildings for a charity. The plan
should be prescribed by the government.
	Mr. Salisbury, In whom is the title?
	Mr. Call. The title, I understand, is in this
corporation; but it is proposed to place the title
in the government if so desired. Be that as
it may, it is surely not a wise public policy,
without limitations and conditions, to put a
large sum of money in the hands of any num-
ber of persons or any corporation, however
meritorious they may be.
	The point in this matter is that the advance-
ment of this work, this charity, the rescuing
and protection of these poeple, the continuance
of the charitable purposes of this corporation
in its highest possible efficiency, granting all
that is said for it, has nothing whatever to do
with the disbursement of the money. The
mere hands through which this money 
shall pass are immaterial to the pur-
poses of charity. If the building is con-
structed with proper speed and diligence,
and in a proper style and with proper conven-

[Column 3]
iences, that is what the charity demands. It is
not required that the money shall be disbursed 
by A or B or any one else. The singular part
of it is, that it is so insisted, not for the effi-
ciency of the charity, but for the disbursement
of the money by particular individuals, and
the proposition manifestly has no connection
whatever with the purposes of the charity. I
myself am in favor of the charity, and I have 
no great objection to the provision passing in
this shape.


