LINCOLN PARK.

	Lincoln Park, in the North-Eastern part
of Chicago, borders on the lake point, and is
very extensive and attractive, as was the man
from  whom it derived its name.
	As in other parks, there are rustic seats,
shaded by large trees, and the ground is every-
where carpeted with beautiful lawns and
flower beds, intermingled with artificial ponds
and channels, for the convenience of boaters.
	But its chief attractions are those of its hot

[Column 2]

﻿house and its extensive exhibition of wild
animals. In the hot house can be found in-
numerable tropical plants and flowers, so
arranged, according to class and form, as to
produce at the same time the most pleasing and
instructive appearance.
	One room of the house is dedicated to the
feathered songsters, of which there is a great
variety, but we will leave the birds and pass on
to the beasts.
	As you enter the Park from the street car, a
beautifully bridged channel is crossed, then im-
mediately to the right is a small pond, in the
 centre of which is a rock island, bearing an in-
scription something like this; "Any person
found throwing any thing into the water, or
at the sea lions, will be promptly arrested."
On the other side is the name of the donor,
and at the time of the printing there were two
sea lions, since when one has had the misfor-
tune to die, and if it is possible for the lower
animals to feel a loss of any kind, the remain-
ing seal surely mourns for its lost companion.
It now seldom creates any disturbance, while in
the past discord seemed to be its chief amuse-
ment.
	A little farther on to the left is a very large
wire cage, and as has already been surmised, is
occupied by birds. The owl sits upon a high
perch, just large enough for himself, with his
eyes wide open, and apparently watching the
 moving forms of human spectators, while the
eagles fly from perch to perch, and though un-
able to attract attention from the owl, their pre-
sence is at least perceptible to the slowly moving
alligators and mud-turtles, as they crawl in and
out of a sluggish little pond beneath. The rabbits
have a separate apartment in the same cage,
and enjoy themselves, as the more intellectual
rabbits should, i. e.: in games that are not dis-
tasteful to the refined rabbit. A little further
on is another large bird cage, containing a
great many varieties of birds and small
animals, such as the blue jay, quails, porcu-
pines, squirrels, etc. How quick the latter as-
cends the tree, but how much quicker they de-
scend if induced to jump for peanuts. Across
the walk from the bird cage is a small box
faced with very fine wire, entombing white, or
 albino rats. They make a very beautiful pic-
ture, with spotless coats and pink eyes. The
young are placed in a small wire nest, and they
lie so closely together, that they very much
resemble a little roll of pure white cotton.
	The ground to the right of the "rats" is the
home of the prairie dog; true to his habits of
uncivilized life, he gathers all the peanuts
offered into his under-ground retreat, and pro-
vides in every way possible for the long, cold
winter, which he seems to realize is inevitable.
Whether they understand the geological
changes of the seasons or not, could only be
learned by conversing with one of their profes
sors, or attending one of the "dog" schools.
	At any rate, they provide for the coming
season, and in all seem so fearless. It is a
characteristic of the prairie dog to be timid,
but here we see them coming to the edge of
 the wire railing, and standing on two legs, hold
out the other two as if professional beggars.
(For the latter there is no place like Chicago.)
 	The other animals will be described at a
later date.		X.


