SOME SERIOUS REFLECTIONS.

	I dreamed, a few nights ago, of being led by
circumstances into a room, or office, where I
found myself in the presence of a number of
our aged brethren, some Apostles, and one
brother, who occupied a chair near the centre
of the room and attracted my attention most,
was from the spirit world. Though I did not
know his name, I kept my eyes upon him,
while listening with deep interest to the con-
versation, which was upon common topics, or
 the scenes which most deeply concern the Lat-
ter-day Saints. After a little he spoke as fol-
lows, emphasizing every word so that it im-
pressed itself the stronger upon my memory:
"Why," said he, "we are around here all the
time, and know everything that is transpiring,"
meaning among our own people and the Gen-
tiles, and that there were many more beside
himself, who were similarly engaged.
	This I believe to be verily true. It brought
to my mind the testimony of many who were
present at the dedication of the Manti Temple,
whose eyes were opened, and they bore witness
of many glorious visions, of personages who
 appeared to them with the heavenly music and
singing, which was heard at different times, all
proving that we are not separated from those
who were co-workers with us here, and are still
engaged in the interest of those with whom
they labored for years in establishing the
principles of this Gospel, and planning for the
holy Temples, in which the work is continuing
on for the living and for the dead.
	I am often led to reflect upon these glorious
things, and compare them with the vanities of
the world, the mammon of unrighteousness,
which has such a hold upon the human mind,
that it can take those richer and everlasting
treasures in the hearts of men and women who
have once feasted upon the smne, but through
slothfuluess and a gradual neglect of their
duties, have come to love these pleasures more
than the things gf God. I can realize some-
thing of the solemnity that rested upon the
minds of some of our fathers who bore the
weight of these things for years, before they
were laid to rest under the silent sod of mother
earth. I have felt to bemoan the many sad
mistakes that have been made by brethren and
sisters once so valiant for the truth, which
they professed to have a testimony of, and
have wondered how they could have a face to
deny the "Mormonism, which they had once
known the truth of, and declared to be the
work of God, then deny it, and say that it is
false, and turn to persecuting those who remain
true to their convictions. Apostacy from the
Church of Christ is a thing more terrible and
more to be lamented than, all the calamities,
that have ever befallen the Latter-day Saints.
At different periods within my recollection

[Column 2]

these things have been witnessed, and the mid-
night darkness into which they sank, their
very countenances betraying it to their con-
demnation before their brethren and sisters.
They had lost the light of the true Gospel by
degrees, and were not able to discern between
men chosen by the Almighty, and those in-
spired by the wicked one. The trials of many
has made shipwreck of their faith, it having
been pinned to the actions of men. I cannot
see what the mistakes, or failures of men has
to do with the Gospel revealed from on high
for the eternal salvation of the human family,
nor how any principle, or doctrine connected
therewith can be effected. The Church has
continued to grow and increase in strength and
power, and will still roll farward, and no power
can hinder the accomplishment of the pur-
poses for which it was revealed and established
in this dispensation, no matter how many may
slip or weaken at the sight of danger and
yield to cowardice, or to some other weakness
of poor humanity—beset as we are by the
powers of evil, not being prepared or suffici-
ently fortified to contend against them. It
shows how necessary it is for every individual
to know for themselves whether or not this
work is of God or of man, and not depend up-
on the testimony of another. This has been
taught from the beginning, and the Prophet
Joseph frequently remarked, that his word
was no more than any other man's, except
when he said, "Thus saith the Lord."
	It was in this spirit that he taught the princi-
ple of celestial marriage, and some of his
wives have testified that he admonished them
to go to the Lord and inquire of Him concern-
ing this principle, with the promise that they
 should have his faith; and this was his counsel
to many others to whom he revealed the
principle, and none who obeyed his counsel
failed to receive the promised testimony, be-
sides receiving a great blessing. And it was
this-alone that enabled them to endure their
bitter trials and privations, as well as the scorn
and reproaches of many a one calling them-
selves Latter-day Saints. Had the Prophet
designed evil, or to lead captive the daughters
of Zion, he would hardly have given this kind
 of counsel. Here is some of his earliest teach-
ings from Lecture Sixth in Doctrine and
 Covenants, treating of the "knowledge which
persons must have, that the course of life
which they pursue is according to the will of
God, in order that they may be enabled to
exercise faith in Him unto life and salva-
tion."
	"An actual knowledge to every person, that
the course of life which he pursues is according
to the will of God, is essentially necessary to
enable him to have that confidence in God,
without which no person can obtain eternal
life. It was this that enabled the ancient
 Saints to endure all their afflictions and perse-
cutions, and take joyfully the spoiling of their
goods, knowing (not believing merely), that
they had a more enduring substance. Hebrews
x, 34.
	"A religion," he says, "that does not require
the sacrifice of all things never has power
sufficient to produce the faith necessary unto the
enjoyment of life and salvation, for from the
first existence of man, the faith necessary unto
the enjoyment of life and salvation, never
could be obtained without the sacrifice of all 
earthly things. It was through this sacrifice,
and this only, that God has ordained that men


should enjoy life, and it is through the medium
of sacrifice of all earthly things, that men do 
actually know that they are doing the things
that are well pleasing in the sight of God."
	This is plain and to the point. The sacrifices
which the Saints have made at various times, 
and the adversities which they have had to 
meet, seem so very similar to those endured by
the ancient saints, that this alone should be a 
testimony of this being the true Church. 
Those who have imagined that a smooth, un-
ruffled life is proof of their upright and Godly 
course; have not considered that of the Savior, 
nor of His disciples. But those who are estab-
lished in the faith can easily believe that op-
position, persecution, tribulation and sacrifice 
is the alloted portion of every faithful follower 
of Jesus Christ.
	The persecutions and unlawful proceedings
that are being carried on by men inspired by 
the evil one, we have been led to expect, and
also for a falling away, or apostacy from the 
Church of God. This was among the events 
that were to take place before "the redemption
of Zion," which "must needs come by power;
therefore, I will raise up unto my people a 
man who shall lead them like as Moses led the 
children Israel. 	*	*	And as your
fathers were led at the first, even so shall the 
redemption of Zion be."
	The true Latter-day Saint will be measur-
ably prepared for whatever may transpire.
The great and mighty revolutions, and the dis-
tress of the nations at the present time, are 
things that we have been looking for. 	We 
know that they will continue until the earth is 
cleansed of its wickedness; and it stands us in 
hand to set a double watch over ourselves, 
that we do not grieve and lose the Holy Spirit, 
and drift away into unbelief, but prepare our-
selves for what is laying before us, which are 
days of tribulation, and try to avoid that awful
whirlpool into which so many have been led, 
either by a spirit of doubt and unbelief, or 
because of transgression, and have sank to rise 
no more. Those who bear these things in
 mind, and are watching the signs of the times
will be able to discern between truth and error,
and accept their trials as needful lessons, that 
will add to their store of experience, which in 
a future day will be of the greatest worth.
Besides, it will test the faith of every soul, 
provingwho are the pure in heart, who can
 lay claim to the promise that they shall see 
God and walk in the light of His countenance. 
The promise that the old men should dream
dreams, and the young men should see visions
—meaning women as well—we claim has been 
realized by many, and to a great extent; and 
would that there were more who had on the 
armor of righteousness, and realized the honor
which the Lord has conferred upon them, and 
the conditions upon which they have received
the promise of an eternal exaltation in His 
kingdom, that whatever comes they would be 
found among that number, who will stand firm 
and immovable as the rock of ages to every
principle of the everlasting Gospel, trusting
not in flesh, but in the Almighty, who stands
at the helm, and will honor their integrity aud
bear them off victorious. 
			HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	October 3, 1888.


