OBITUARIES.
	Mary Ann, the beloved wife of Joshua Jarvis, departed
this life at Bloomington, Sept. 24th, 1888.  She was born 
in Bethlingreen, London, March 10th, 1840; emigrated to
Salt Lake City in 1861; moved to Cottonwood, where she 
resided a short time; from there went to Logan, and in
June, 1865, came to Bear Lake Valley, where she resided 
until her death, proving herself a devoted wife, loving
mother and constant friend.  She was faithful to her 
religion, and filled the offices of Secretary and Second
Counselor in the Relief Society; the latter office she held
at the time of her death. There is not one but will miss
her cheering smile and loving counsel.  Among singers she
was the sweetest, but her melodious voice we shall hear no 
more, until we hear it in the choirs of heaven. 
		Sister, rest your weary body,
			Now  your work on earth is done,
		But your memory will be sacred
			In the heart of every one
		Who has joined you in the duties
			Resting on our little band;
		May we still enjoy your presence
			In the blest and holy land.
									E. C. P.
	It is with feelings of sorrow we record the death of our 
beloved sister, Elsie Lant, who died Aug. 6th, 1888, aged
thirty-eight years, eleven months and fourteen days. 
			RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to take from
our midst our beloved sister,
	Resolved, That we, her associates and co-workers in the
Third District of the Payson Relief Society, of which she 
was presiding teacher, do mourn her loss, that we cherish
her memory, for we can truly say she manifested that true 
charity which flows from a sense of duty and hope in God. 
	Resolved, That we sympathize with the bereaved family
and friends of our departed sister, praying that the comfort-
ing influence of our Heavenly Father may rest upon them
and that her children may be inspired to walk in her foot
steps.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions to 
the bereaved family; also that a copy be sent to the EX-
PONENT for publication, and that they be placed upon the 
district record. 
								MARTHA SIMONS,
								MARY A. NEBEKER,
