VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1888.	NO. 10.


[Column 1]
			AN UNSEEN ANGEL.
		    NANCY PATTON M'LEAN.
Soft fell the tender shades of eve, the coming night fore-
	telling; 
Afar and near rose sweet and clear the organ's song up-
	welling;
To other ears a wordless hymn; to mine, attuned to
	sadness.
Each note was full and running o'er with loving praise and
	gladness.
With weary hearts and tired feet I crossed the sacred 
	portal. 
Weary of sin and tired of toil, the common lot of mortal.
Down throunb the aisles the music rolled from out the 
	organ ringing, 
The angel met me at the door, a joyous message bring-
	ing—
"Give thanks, the Lord our God is good, His mercy faileth
	never;
Be glad, O heaven, and sing, O earth, our God is God for-
	ever!"
"I am too tired to sing," I said; "I have no thanks to 
	render.
Life's path is cold and hard to tread, my feet are sore and 
	tender. 
Where friendship's torch should constant burn, it shows 
	but fitful flashes; 
The gold I grasp to rust will turn, the fruit is only ashes. 
They have the less of care to bear whose life is soonest 
ended." 
Sweet with the organ's solemn roll the angel's answer
	blended—
"Envy thou not the quiet dead; nor covet thou their
	sleeping.
Bear bravely thy appointed lot, thy faith and honor keep-
	ing;
And hold this blessed truth in mind, forget its beauty
	never,
Whether Life smiles or darkly frowns, our God is God for-
	ever!"
"I am so sick of sin," I said, "and sin is all surrounding. 
The good I would do, do I not, because of sin abounding. 
I reach toward the higher life, my soul for freedom long-
	ing, 
My feet are struggling in the mire where base desires are
	thronging.
What need is there of sin to be? Why spurn I not its
	proffers?
The very bitterness of death is in the cup it offers." 
Still underneath and far above the organ's solemn pealing 
The angel's tender melody into my heart came stealing- 
"Behold the cross! O tired soul; lay down thy heavy bur-
	den! 
Seek here the strength oft promised as true faith's unfailing
	guerdon."
"I have no faith," I said with tears. Why should I cease 
	from crying? 
Within the clasp of these sad years my darling dead are
	lying.
Why are they gone while I am here? My grief is just and
	holy."
The angel sang still sweet and clear, still lovingly and
	lowly—
"Thy dead are safe in God's own care; O, sad soul, cease 
	thy wailing. 
Earth hath no guardian anywhere so loving, so unfailing.
The Lord is very pitiful unto His children's sorrow; 
This grief is for thine earthly day— what joy the heavenly 
	morrow!
Oh, sing the Father's grace to thee, whose mercy failing
	never,
Gives unto thy beloved sleep- then sinless life forever."
I bowed my head in bitter pain that strove with deep con-
	trition. 
"Father," I cried, and with the word my heart broke in
	submission.
I saw the love, I saw the grace, I saw the tender beauty 
That shineth from the Father's face along the path of duty.
[Column 2]
The angel's voice was hushed awhile and all the people
	singing
Sent up to God a noble hymn with thankful praises ring-
	ing. 
And when the solemn words of prayer rose over heads all
	bended,
The doubts, the fears, the cares, the tears and weariness 
	were ended; 
And all the happy paths of peace within my heart rang 
	ever,
"Give thanks! Our Father is our God, whose mercy fail-
	eth never." 
							    -Hearth and Hall.


[Column 1]

