COMMENTS.

	In the afternoon of Tuesday, Sept. 25th, a
party of ladies and gentlemen accompanied Mrs.
Saxon and Mrs. Colby to Salt Lake. Through
the courtesy of Hon. W. W. Riter, whom we
sincerely thank for the favor, a car was tendered
free for the ladies, and a very pleasant party en-
joyed the luxury of the ride and bath in the
famous Lake, so often compared by travelers to
the Dead Sea. Mrs. Saxon and Mrs. Colby both
seemed, and indeed expressed themselves as
enjoying to the utmost the conversation, the
scenery, the bath and the magnificent sunset over
the Lake, as viewed from the pavilion and the
cars upon the return trip.
	Early next morning Mrs. Emily S. Richards
and the writer, according to previous appoint-
ment, went with Mrs. Saxon and Mrs. Colby to
the Industrial Home.
	Mrs. Campbell, the Matron, received all the
party with the utmost courtesy, and was most kind
n explaining particulars regarding the institution,
its management, and so forth. She is certainly 
well qualified for the position she holds, and seems
quite equal to the grave responsibility. She re-
erred to the desire on the part of the Board of
Directors, to have Congress change the plan
sufficiently to admit other than plural wives, so
that more could be accomplished than under the
present restrictions. And, indeed, it does seem a
small affair for the Congress of the United States
to legislate for, when the inmates are one woman
and nine children. It is exceedingly doubtful if
there is any city or town of the population of
Salt Lake that could not furnish more inmates for
a charitable institution, even under the same pro-
visions, viz.: women tired of the relations they
sustained as the wives of men who had other
wives. No wonder these charitable people who
are so anxious to do good feel that their platform
of work must be upon a broader plan. Think of
the expense of keeping up a house, with furnish

[Column 2]

ings and employees, matron, cook, laundress, etc.
for one woman and nine children, especially when
so many women and children are actually in a
state of suffering for food and raiment so near
home, in all the great cities and towns of the
United States. How absurd all this must appear
to the people, who know the condition of the
women for whose benefit Congress has been so
liberal! And there are those who do know!
Why here in Salt Lake City it is almost impossi-
ble to obtain hired help for domestic service, or
women to wash or iron; there are not enough to
supply the people, and where is the woman who
would not far rather work for her living than
depend upon the charity of others, even if it
were dispensed by Congress?
	And this very woman who is now an occupant
of the Home, was not destitute; the matron in-
formed us that her husband had offered her $20 a
month towards her support. How many thou-
sands of women are there outside of Utah, who
do not receive so much towards the support of
the family? How many women in the world sup-
port themselves, their children and a worthless or
drunken husband? O, it is pitiful to think upon,
and what is Congress doing for these poor unfor-
tunate women, and the little helpless children?
These are the children that need protection! not
the plural wives of the Elders of Israel.
	It does not seem possible that Congressmen
could have been hoodwinked into making such an
appropriation as has been made for this Industrial
Home in Utah, without making themselves suffi-
ciently acquainted with the conditions here to
know if it was, or would be wisely bestowed.
However, so it is, and in the near future a build-
ing suitable for the purposes designed, will be
erected, and industries established under the di-
rection and control of the Utah Commission.
Where the women are coming from to carry on
these various trades and industries in the several
branches and departments of work is not yet ap-
parent; perhaps Mrs. Angie F. Newman knows,
but we who have lived in Utah for forty years,
must confess our ignorance of these poor de-
graded, unfortunate, unhappy, down-trodden
women, who need support from the Government.
We have traveled extensively in and through
these mountain vales, and everywhere we have
found the women of the people contented and
happy in their homes, and with comfortable sur-
roundings, and we fail to see any need for an
asylum such as these Christian women are so 
anxious to provide for the daughters of Zion—dis-
satisfied plural wives.
	As for the young women, who are likely to be
influenced by polygamous surroundings, what a
flimsy pretext to obtain money, when young and
innocent girls go down by the score and hundreds
in the cities of the East and West, and not a
hand scarcely stretched forth to save them from
destruction.
	The Industrial Home will probably be written
up by Mrs. Colby in the Woman's Tribune, and
we shall be glad to see what she will have to say
upon the subject.
	After leaving the Industrial Home the ladies
were taken to the Orphan's Day Nursery and
other parts of the city, and finally to call at the
Devereaux House, where Mrs. Jennings presented
them with a basket of the choicest fruit. Mrs.
Saxon and Mrs. Colby left on the afternoon train
for Ogden, where they were to speak in the even-
ing. At the Utah Central depot they bade the
final good-bye. The visit had assuredly been
pleasant, and we trust a profitable one to them in
more ways than one.
	We give below the amendment agreed upon in
the Congress of the United States, as published
in the Congressional Record of October 10, 1888.
During the arguments in both Houses of Congress,
there were many erroneous ideas advanced, and
seemingly received, notwithstanding all the en-

[Column 3]

lightenment Congress has had of late years on
the Mormon question. The Delegate from Utah,
one would think, stated matters plain enough for
the members and all who heard or read his speech,
but it seems impossible to convince certain people
that the Latter-day Saints take care of their own,
and that plural wives are self-reliant enough and
too independent by far to enter the Home pro-
vided by Government. To do so they must cer-
tainly apostatize from the faith, which has been
and is their constant guide and support. The
amendment annexed changes the management
considerably, and in fact the character of the
establishment in a great measure, but it is doubt-
ful if it will be satisfactory to those who are so
anxious to take care of Mormon women, while so
many are suffering nearer the heart of the na-
tion.

	Amendments numbered 112 and 113: That the
House recede from its disagreement to the amend-
ments of the Senate numbered 112 and 113, and
agree to the same with an amendment as follows:
In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted by
said amendments insert the following:
	"Industrial Home in Utah Territory: The
Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized
and directed to cause all of the unexpended bal-
ance of appropriations made by two acts of Con-
gress, one approved Aug. 6, 1886, to aid in the
establishment of an industrial home in the Terri-
tory of Utah, and to provide employment and
means of support for the dependent women who
renounce polygamy, and the children of such
women of tender age in said Territory, with a
view to the suppression of polygamy therein; and
the other act approved February 1, 1888, to aid
the Industrial Christian Home Association in
Utah in carrying out under its articles of incor-
poration, the work of providing employment and
means of support for the dependent women who
shall have renounced polygamy, and their children
of tender age, now in the hands of Caleb W.
West, or any other person or corporation, to be
immediately paid over or delivered to a properly
qualified disbursing officer of the United States,
to be appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
And said Secretary of the Treasury is further di-
rected to cause a valid title to the lot or lots of
ground in the city of Salt Lake in said Territory,
that were purchased and paid for with money of
the United States appropriated in the acts before
cited, to be immediately vested absolutely and
unconditionally in the United States forever.
When said balances are fully paid over to said
disbursing officer, the Utah Commission shall be
and become the board of management and control
thereof and of all expenditures of said money,
and of such as may be hereinafter appropriated.
and the said board of management and control
shall proceed at once, on plans and specifications
to be made or approved by said board, to erect or
complete on said lot or lots a building adapted or
designed to carry out the purposes of this act,
and which, when entirely completed and finished,
including the approaches and the fencing and
grading of said lot or lots, shall not in cost ex-
ceed the sum of $50,000; and for these purposes
the money appropriated under the two acts of
Congress above recited and unexpended, is here-
by appropriated, and a further sum is hereby ap-
propriated to complete the work above mentioned,
not exceeding the sum of $24,000.
	"There is also hereby appropriated the further
sum of $4,000, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, to suitably furnish said building when
the same shall have been completed.
	"When said building shall have been completed
and furnished, it shall be placed in the custody of
the Industrial Christian Home Association of
Utah Territory, to be used and occupied by it for
the purpose of aiding in the suppression of poly-
amy, and of furnishing an industrial home and


providing employment and means of self-support
for the dependent women who renounce polygamy,
and the children of such women of tender age in
said Territory; and for the purpose of extinguish-
ing polygamy the following classes may also be
received to wit.
	"First. First or legal wives.
	"Second. Women and girls with polygamous
surroundings in danger of being coerced into
polygamy.
	"Third. Girls of polygamous parentage
anxious to escape from polygamous influences.
	"Fourth. Women and girls who have been
proselyted elsewhere and remove into the Terri-
tory in ignorance of the existence there of poly-
gamy.
	"For aiding in the work of said association for
the present fiscal year, including the transporta-
tion of inmates of the institution who desire to
permanently remove from said Territory, $4,000.
	Said Utah Commission shall hereafter act as the
board of control over said association, both in
the erection of said building and in the conduct
of the work of the association hereafter.
	"Said Utah Commission shall audit all expendi-
tures of said association under any appropria-
tions herein or hereafter made, and shall make an
annual report to Congress covering their expendi-
tures and work hereunder, together with that of
said association.
	"Said Industrial Christian Home Association of
Utah Territory for the work herein defined, shall
have the use and occupation of said building and
grounds, free of rent and charge, until such time
as said work shall be accomplished, or Congress
shall otherwise direct, when possession and occu-
pation of the same shall revert to the United 
States."
	And the Senate agree to the same.


