Y. L. M. I. A. SANPETE STAKE.
	(Quarterly conference of the Y. L. M. I. A.
held at Fountain Green, Sept. 15th, 1888,
Prest. Christina Willardsen presiding. Sing-
ing, "The youth of his land," etc. Prayer by
Bro. Guyman. Singing. Roll called; Stake
officers present, three, local officers, six.
Minutes of last conference were read and ap-
proved; also semi annual reports from nine As-
sociations, the other four having failed to send
any report.
	Sister Willardsen made opening remarks,
after which the following Associations were
represented, each officer making a few appro-
priate remarks: Mayfield, Prest. Hannah V.
Bunderson and Coun. Adelina Madsen; Foun-
tain Green, Coun. Eliza Bischoff and Mary
Yorgenson; Manti South Ward, Prest. Matilda
Alder.
	Stake Coun. Margaret Kjar spoke of the
necessity of the united efforts of the Y. L.
Said, "The Lord does not require any more at
our hands than we are able to do," etc., etc.
	Sister M. A. Hyde was the next speaker.
Spoke about her timidity when the Relief So-
ciety wys first organized. Encouraged the Y.

[Column 2]

L. to trust in the Lord when arising to speak.
"There is a lack of faith, but persevere and
you will succeed. Rather give brief lectures
than select readings, in your meetings. Keep
yourselves pure as angels." Spoke about
prayer, etc, etc.
	Sister Presendia L. Kimball addressed the
conference. Spoke of the privilege the young
ladies are enjoying. The importance of being
sealed for time and eternity. "Seek to gain a
testimony. Be kind to your mothers. Rathe
choose one of our uncouth boys for a husband
than one who is not of us. Be careful of your
speech; we do not know who are hearing us;
angels may be present." Sister Presendia said,
the Temple work was her chief delight. Al-
luded to the early persecutions in the Church.
	Sister Minerva Snow felt to bless the Y. L.
"Improve your mind and opportunities by
reading good books. The Lord will manifest
to you the things pertaining to the kingdom
Learn to be good housekeepers. "Do not blight
your life thoughtlessly by keeping company
with a young man who swears, smokes and
drinks, for he may not be worthy to go to the
Temple" Asked the blessings of God upon
all.
	Sister Sarah Petersen hoped we would treasure
up what we had heard, for it had been a day
of rejoicing. Spoke about fashion, and en-
couraged the culture of silk.
	Prest. C. Peterson had been edified by the
remarks of the sisters. "The work will fall
on the young people." Spoke of the necessity
of an education. "A wife should be a true
helpmeet to her husband." Dwelt at length
upon the preaching of the Gospel to the dead.
	(Sister Willardsen made closing remarks,
after which Sister Hyde spoke in tongues, Sis-
ter Kimball giving the interpretation.
	Conference adjourned for three months, to
meet at Spring City, Dec. 15. Singing,
"Joseph Smith's First Prayer." Benediction
by Bro. Barnsen:
	A Primary meeting was held at 2 p.m.,
Coun. Hannah Wickmann presiding, in the
absence of Stake Prest. Helena Madsen. Sing-
ing from the Primary Hymn Book. Prayer
by Bro. Anthon Sorensen. Singing.
	A semi-annual report of the Primary Asso-
ciation of Fountain Green was read by the
Secretary, Miss Clara Collard, after which a
very interesting programme of exercises, con-
sisting of songs, dialogues and recitations, was
rendered by the children; also a chapter on
Bible questions and answers, conducted by
Prest. Collard. A copy of the Primary Jour-
nal (Manuscript paper), was read by the Secre-
tary, followed by remarks from Sister Collard,
representative of the Association.
	Sisters Kimball and Snow addressed the
children. Made many enceuraging and
instructive remarks. Sister E. Allred, of
Spring City, also encouraged the children to
attend their meetings, etc., etc.
	Sister Wickmann made closing remarks.
Gave the children the kind regards of Sister
Madsen. Said, in regard to the Y. L., that it
was very desirable that the Associations should
procure blanks, and be more prompt in sending
reports, and correct reports only. Singing.
Benediction.
