NOTES AND NEWS. 

	Elizabeth Cady Stanton has come out for the
Prohibition Party.
	The gamblers and criminal classes of Wash-
ington Territory lit bonfires and rang bells and
hurrahed in the streets when the Federal
Judges violated their oaths and refused to
enforce the woman's suffrage law. According
to these Judges one blackleg ruffian has more
power at the polls than all the wives and
mothers.—Ex.
	The Baroness Gripenberg of Finland had a
reception given her, week before last, in Sara-
toga, at tbe house of Mrs. Harriet Whipple
Wallace. Among those present were Mrs.
Lucy Stone of the Boston Woman's Journal,
Miss Anthony, from Rochester; Miss Caroline
A. Huling, editor of Chicago Justitia; Mr.
Albert O. Wilcox, from New York, and many
residents of Saratoga. Several addresses were
made, and the Baroness's account of women's
affairs in Finland was heard with much inter-
est. She is a member of the Board of Educa-
tion of Helsingfors, and was a delegate to the
International Council of women.


"Denis Kearney was "finished" by Sara An-
drews Spencer. At the Chicago Labor Con-
vention of 1880 he interrupted her, roaring:
"My wife told me if I voted for the women she
would greet me with a flatiron! Women don't
want to vote!" Mrs. Spencer answered,
"Thank you much for telling me which is the
head of the Kearney family." That was the
end of Denis. "The daughter of Zion had
laughed him to scorn." He could not get the
convention to hear him, and has not been heard
from since."

	"Your name ain't Tree, is it?" cried Ange-
line's father down the stairs to Angeline's
young man as the clock struck 12.
	"N n-no sir; m-m-my name's R-r-r-r-obert
W-w-wilkins, sir, stammered the young man.
	"Oh, excuse me, Mr. R-r-r-r-obert W-w-wil-
kins sir," retorted the old man courteously.
"I might a known your name wasn't Tree, be-
cause you never seem to leave."
	And then Mr. Robert Wilkin's limbs
sprouted, and the pitter-patter of his feet
down the broad walk told that he was leaving
as fast as he knew how.

	They were discussing the magazines. "That
was a fine portrait of Lester Wallack in Scrib-
ner's, Miss Brown," said he.
	"Indeed, yes. And how interesting the
Century 'Bric-a brac' was last month," said
she.
	"Wasn't it. And how good the last chap-
ters of 'Annie Kilburn' are?" said he.
	"I haven't read them," said she.
	"Aren't you fond of serials?" said he.
	"Not very; I don't mind rice, but I despise
oatmeal. Why do you ask?" said she.
	And he said, "Good evening Miss Brown."


