TO AUNT POLLY.

Dear Aunt Polly:
	Your pleasantly worded letter has roused
me from the partial apathy which has fallen
over "things mental" of late, and I am going
to steal these few minutes, while my dinner 
is boiling to try, at least, to answer you.
	You have alluded in so truthful and vivid
a way to my uneventful life at Laie, whose
chief variation consists in wash-day, and whose
only excitement is mail-day, that I shall simply
say, "It is even so!"
	I sometimes wish that speaking was done in 
something the same way as writing; for when
one is angry, one seldom takes time to write
down the angry thoughts, nor do we often
write out our troubles, or gossip to our friends.
But our tongues go away at a tangent, and 
things are often said for which we feel sorrow:
	Since I have been here, I have but once
or twice broken through a rule I made when
I came, and that was, no matter what occurred
[Column 2]
here of a disagreeable nature, not to put it on
paper for others to read. But I have, indeed,
as you so thoughtfully suggest, been shadowed
by heavy clouds of sorrow, and have pricked 
my feet over many thorny obstacles in my 
path. Well, so we do everywhere; therefore, 
let me be grateful for all I have enjoyed and 
endured. The one is a pleasant remembrance,
the other needed lessons in life.
	At present we are very happily situated.
President King's wife and Sister Nellie Beesley
live over at the Mission House, and take turns
at the kitchen work; our family being the only
other at present in Laui Huli. We three sis-
ters have many cosy times together, and in no
place have I seen a better, more united spirit
than exists here. But for many months we
have had no evening services on Sunday, be-
cause there were so few of us here. I have 
missed them.
	Your kind and sympathetic words have
touched me strangely; perhaps because I have 
grown very tender-hearted here so far away
from home; perhaps because it is so rarely we 
are made conscious that our humble efforts are
realized or noticed by any one. I earnestly
echo your wish for that nearer acquaintance-
ship.
	Now let me give you a little Laie news. You 
will remember the "big room," or general sit-
ting-room at the Mission House? Then, if you 
do, you will at the same time recall its generally
comfortless aspect. No one, I am assured; has 
been to blame for this, as eating in it three
times a day, and the almost constant presence
of the natives, have kept it in a comparatively
untidy condition.
	Of late, I am pleased to report, Sisters King
and Nellie Beesley have taken the matter into 
their own hands, and the result is really a 
genuine surprise, as well as an innovation.
Lace curtains, with heavily fringed velvet lam-
berquins drape the windows, hanging from rich
looking cornices.  A very good striped mat-
ting covers the floor.  The dining-table has
been banished, and in its stead a large center
table, covered with a bright cloth, and strewn
with books, occupies the center of the floor.
The asthmatic organ, the ancient sideboard, and,
indeed, every piece of furniture in the room
has received a generous coat of varnish.  New
pictures, donated in some instances by the
Elders, aid in the wall adornment.  The old
sofa has been stuffed till it looks almost 
apoplectic, then covered with dark, handsome
creton, and cushions added to it; the big chair
has been treated in the same manner, while the
cane rocking chair is gorgeous in two fine
crazy cushions, all of silk and velvet pieces.
The rough deal shelves, which assisted the few
walnut ones in forming our modest library,
have been brightened by embroidered velvet
valances or curtains, and a large, fine office
clock ticks on the wall. The pictures of our
beloved leaders hang in the honored places, 
while Daniel Webster frowns down upon us
from a corner; Anderson's oil painting hangs
above the door, and the pictures of our ex-
presidents, Pack, Cluff and Partridge, and Sis-
ter Partridge, all occupy prominent positions.
Dear "Maggie" Cluff, as the natives love to
call her, still smiles upon us near her husband,
the only thing we have left of her sweet 
womanliness. We have no picture of Sister
Speight, for which we often express our regrets,
as we have a magnificent one of her companion.
Bright colored mats lie under vases and lamps,
pretty tidies add the finishing touches to lounge,
chairs and tables. The whole room has an air
of comfort and elegance, and inspires every one
with a desire to behave one's self at one's very
best.
	All this sounds extravagant, but outside of
the white-washing and painting (new coats of 
which are being added inside and out over the
whole house), the deft and tasty fingers of the
[Column 3]
sisters have done every bit of it all. In point
of dollars, the cost has been small, but as a 
labor of love and good-will the account runs
up large.
	I must add that the dining-table is now set
in the middle room, fitted up for the purpose,
between the dining-room and kitchen.
	Perhaps this letter is long enough to satisfy
you and bother "Aunt Em," so I will say no 
more just now, only that I sincerely send my
"aloha mui" to the Editor and readers of our 
EXPONENT, and beg you, Aunt Polly, to keep
a very generous share for yourself.
						HOMESPUN.	
	N. B. I suspect who you are, notwithstand-
ing your reserve.					H. 
	Laie, Sept. 23, 1888.


