	MARICOPA STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Condensed report of the past few weeks. We
have been having, as you may say, a spiritual
feast, owing to the presence of some of the
leading brethren from Salt Lake—Apostle
John Henry Smith and Bros. Burton, who
arrived here on the 19th of Sept.
	Sept. 15th and 16th was our Young Men's
Conference, 20th, Relief Society Conference,
21st, Primary in the forenoon and Y. L. in the

[Column 3]

afternoon, 22nd and 23rd, Quarterly Conference
of Maricopa Stake, enough to satisfy the most
spiritually minded amongst the Latter-day
Saints, but I have yet to hear the first remark
that evidenced weariness in the least; but all
felt well repaid for the time spent in the rich
spiritual feast provided for them, and the valu-
able instruction that was dealt out so freely to
all classes.
	Our Relief Society Conference was well at-
tended, Prest. Elizabeth G. McDonald presid-
ing: The different branches were well repre-
sented. After the usual exercises of singing
and prayer, the roll of officers was called, who
generally responded. Minutes of June confer-
ence were read and approved.
	Prest. McDonald made brief remarks; said
she had expected some of the visiting brethren,
also Prest. Charles Robson. Business of the
conference, reports, etc, were attended to in
their order.
	The presidents of the different branches
gave their reports, which showed a marked
improvement in the condition of the members,
which was very gratifying. One interesting
feature was the report from the Papage Ward,
which was recently organized, with Sister
Susan Savage, President, formerly First Coun.
to our Stake President—Sister Sarah Russell
now fills her place. It was certainly gratifying
to hear of the success they are meeting with
in that mission. She said they were desirous
of learning, but lacked the means necessary to
teach them, as fast as they were ready to be
taught. Wished the sisters to take an interest
in their poor Lamanite sisters; they desired to
be neat and clean, and dress as their white
sisters do, as far as they were able.
	Coun. Henry Rogers said: "The labors in
the Lamanite mission were great; prejudice
should be removed from our hearts in regard
to them. There is a great field open before the
members of this Stake, both brethren and sis-
ters; funds are needed; the small amount being
raised is not sufficient to meet the demands."
	Bishop Pomeroy felt that the Relief sisters
were a great help to the ward, especially to the
sick. Had listened with pleasure to the report
from the Papage Ward. "If we could just
spare a little more of our means for the sup-
port of this mission; the fifty cents per month
called for from the head of each family is not
much, but if all would pay, it would be con-
siderable; some few pay regular, while by far
the greater part are very careless in regard to
it." Spoke of the spirit of ridicule, which
some indulged in, and its pernicious effects
when carried too far.
	Bro. Allen had visited the Papage Ward,
and understood in a measure the difficulties
they have to encounter who labor there. "Let
us be filled with the spirit of charity towards
each other and be one in all things that the
peace and blessings of God may be with us.
	A Lamanite sister spoke a short time, which
was interpreted by Sister Susan Savage, the
substance of which was, that the white people
had taught them what was good, and it was
joy, to her heart;she felt that they were all her
sisters. She spoke with great vigor and power
and the hearers, could feel the spirit of inspira-
tion, which rested upon her, though not com-
prehending the language.
	The statistical and financial reports were then
read by the Secretary. Also the officers of
the stake, were presented to the conference and
were sustained unanimously.
	President McDonald had been gratified with
the reports given and remarks which had been
made. Hoped the sisters would be generous
and donate to the Lamanite mission, and as-
sist those who were laboring so faithfully in
their midst; said as the brethren had arrived,
she would not take up the time, but would be
pleased to hear from them.
	Apostle J. H. Smith, who came at rather


a late hour, felt considerably oppressed with
the heat, but was glad to meet with the sisters
of this Stake.  He then spoke at considerable
length of the duties and obligations resting
upon the Society; of the influence they might
wield over the youth, and how necessary that
it should be exerted for good. “The strength
and power of women is in the home circle;
they are therefore wisely excluded from public
duties.  their mission is to visit the sick, com-
fort those in trouble, etc.  Mothers, teach your
children self-reliance; there are many tempta-
tions around us in this life, that require instant
decision.  Learn to say yes and no, when
necessary, and do it with promptness and de-
cision.”
	Bro. Burton said their reception had been
so very warm, they failed to get here in time
to hear the reports.  Asked the question,
“Why was this Society organized?” "One
reason is, because the sisters have greater facil-
ties for finding out the wants of a family; her
usefulness is beyond calculation.  Their duties
were to assist the poor and unfortunate in
their midst, not hoard up their means for some
scheme to get a big name, as he had known
some to do."  Compared it to some of the
benevolent societies of the world, who solicit
means to purchase flannel shirts and clothing
to send to some poor benighted heathen in
India or some distant island, while they over-
look those who were starving or suffering right
at their own doors. “Husbands and wives
should be one in their thoughts and feelings.
Who so tender as the loving wife in times of
sickness?  The mothers are the best doctors
for the children; they can look in the very
heart of the disease.” In his experience he
had found the sisters a great help in his
ward.
	Prest. Charles Robson had been much inter-
ested in the good instruction which had been
given, and it was our duty to profit by it. Feft
that the remarks of Bro. Burton did not apply
to the sisters of this place, in regard to the
hoarding up of means, etc.  He was a witness
in a great many instances of the great care
which had been bestowed upon the sick in the
recent sickness which had visited Mesa, which
had been great; many of the sisters had
labored night and day, caring for those who
were in need of help, administering to their
comfort in every possible way.  None were al-
lowed to suffer through neglect, filling their
mission nobly as a Relief Society.  Made some
remarks in regard to the storing up of grain,
the best methods, etc.  Prayed God’s blessing
upon all those who desired the welfare of
Zion.   
	Prest. McDonald thanked the brethren for
the good instruction given; we should each
one strive to put it in practice in our lives.
Wished the mothers generally to attend the
Primary and Y. L. Conferences the following
day.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “How beauteous are their feet.” Bene-
diction by Apostle J. H. Smith.
