Harvest Home
By Alfred Osmond, Head of the English Department of the Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah.

 Bind up the sheaves. The heavy heads of grain Are filled wiih extracts from the soil and air. The Summer sunshine and the Autumn rain Have nourished them with tenderness and care. The golden crowns of glory that they wear Are heralds that the harvest time is here, Inviting all to come and freely share Their ample blessings which will charm and cheer The cold and cruel days that poverty would fear, The brushwoods, on the brown and purple hills, Adorn themselves in scarlet robes of flame, As Nature with her frigid hand distils The liquor that from juicy rootlets came. Mistake it not. The crimson blush of shame Could never glow with such unconsciousness, Nor rid her feelings of the sense of blame That mars the fairest forms of lovliness And leaves the mind of guilt in darkness and distress. The branches, laden with their luscious fruits, Have lost the listlessness that made them wave; _ And, bending low towards sustaining roots 'Neath burdens which have sprung from earth to save The lives of millions of. The fair and brave, Hang passive in the silence so profound That one' but hears the laughing brooks that lave Their shining pebbles, and with gurgling sound Flow gently on the course to which their lives are bound. Bind up the sheaves. The Autumn days are here, And soon the snows of Winter will be falling. But love and laughter fill our hearts with cheer, For comfort makes the cold seem less enthralling. The banks of snow and ice, that will be walling Our lives from their adventures in the wild, Have not the frigid force to be appalling To him who learns and loves to be a child That fancies have made free and phantoms have beguiled. THE HARVEST A Utah Bean Field THE Relief Society Magazine el, X NOVEMBER, 1923 No. 11 Names Myron E, Crandall Jr. Some names are writ in water; Some burned by faggot brand; Some sketched on fame's escutcheon; Some traced on shifting sand; Some etched in deeds of service All o'er a world so vast; Some scribbled in dishonor Across a shiftless past; Some are inscribed in letters That never dim with age; — Some penned by stern recorder Upon a darkened page; Some painted on bright canvas; Some cut on trophy shield; Some blazed in deeds of glory On war's red battlefield; Some carved in fadeless marble On pillars in life's mart; And some are deeply graven On tablets of the heart.