ADVICE TO YOUNG LADIES.

	John Ruskin gives the following advice
to young ladies: "In order to investigate
one's self, it is well to find out what one is
now. Don't think vaguely about it. Take
pen and paper and write down as accurate a
description of yourself as is possible, and, if
you dare not, find out why you dare not
and try and get strength of heart enough to
look yourself in the face, mind as well as
body. Always have two mirrors on your
dressing table, and with proper care dress
mind and body at the same time. Put
your best intelligence to finding out what
you are good for and what you can be made
into. The mere resolve not to be useless
and the honest desire to help other people
will in the quickest and most delicate way,
improve one's self. All accomplishments
should be considered as means of assisting
others. In music get the voice disciplined
and clear, and think only of accuracy; ex-
pression and effect will take care of them-
selves. So in drawing; learn to set down
the right shape of anything and thereby
explain its character to another person: but
if you try only to make showy drawings
for praise, or pretty ones for amusement,
your drawing will have little or no real in-
terest for you and no educational power
whatever. Resolve to do every day some-
thing useful in the vulgar sense. Learn
the economy of the kitchen; the good and
bad qualities of every common article of
food, and the simplest and best mode of
their preparation; help poorer families in
their cooking, showing them how to make
as much of everything as possible, and how
to make little, nice; coaxing and tempting
them into tidy and pretty ways, and plead-
ing for well folded table cloths, however
coarse, and for a flower or two out of the
garden to strew on them. One should at
the end of every day be able to say, as
proudly as any peasant, that she has not eat-
en the bread of idleness. Get quit of the
absurd idea that heaven will interfere to
correct great errors, while following its laws
to take their own course in punishing small
ones. If food is carelessly prepared, no one
expects Providence to make it palatable;
neither, if through years of folly you mis-
guide your own life, need you expect divine
interference to bring around everything at
least for the best. I tell you positively the
world is not so constituted. The consequen-
ces of great mistakes are just as sure as
those of small ones, and the happiness of
your whole life, and of all the lives over
which you have power, depends as literally
on your own common sense and discretion
as the excellence and order of the feast of a
day.


