(CONCLUDED)

	I visited Nottingham Lincoln and Derby
did not stay long enough to visit the Saints in
those places. Spent a few days in London
visiting most places of interest, such as the
Tower, Madam Tassand's wax work, Crystal
Palace, Zoological Gardens, St. Paul's, West-
minster Abby, Albert Hall, Memorial and
some few other places of interest besides at-
tending the Adelphi Theatre where I saw the
Tragedy of "The Bells" performed. By this
time felt about ready to return home, having
made up my mind to accompany Bro. Savage
and Ottinger, leaving on the 4, of Oct. by the
Steamer Montana. My son and my friend
Sister Rivett accompanied me to Liverpool,
remaining with me over night but left me
before the vessel sailed, it being later when it
left port, than advertised. With the assistance
of the brethren got on board comfortably had
favorable weather, about the 6th, met a sailing
ship in distress it had been sixty days at sea
and was out of provisions; for two weeks they
had lived on hard bread and water. They
were relieved by our Captain who gave them
beef, pork, potatoes, bread, tea and other com-
forts. We got a little out of our way and on
the 10th and 11th, encountered a terrific storm,
when the ship was in great danger, but through
the kind Providence of our Heavenly Father,
we were preserved from a watery grave. The

[Column 2]
15th, was a lovely day and we enjoyed it on deck
viewing the many vessels playing around in
the beautiful harbor of New York, we landed
late in the evening. We took a cab to the
Stevens House, after partaking of a little re-
freshment retired to a comfortable bed, for
which I felt truly thankful, for having been
sick most of the way, was doubly thankful
there was no more traveling by water, for I
assure you I am a very poor sailor.
	I concluded to proceed on my journey alone
the next evening, with the kind help of
Elder Staines, and thoughtful attention of
Elder B. F. Cummings Jun. who procured my
ticket through to Salt Lake and had my bag-
gage checked through also, giving me all the
information I required and attended to other
little things that I needed, kindly saw me safe-
ly seated in the cars before he left me his
timely aid being very much appreciated.
Having no one traveling with me, with whom
I was accquainted my journey overland, was
some what solitary, not meeting with any with
whom I could converse, :with the exception of
two ladies mother and daughter traveling
from New Jersey to Los Angelos. As I neared
home became more impatient, yet enjoyed the
overland route much better, than the Ocean
having recourse to books to pass away the
time; and occasionally stepping off the cars
for a little refreshment. Arrived in Ogden on
the evening of Oct. 21st finding there to meet
me my husband and four other members of our
family and on reaching Salt Lake City others
of the family greeted me, also a host of little
grandchildren and some of my friends. When
I entered home once more which was indeed
the dearest spot on earth to me, all being de-
lighted to see me, and I equally so to behold
their faces once more, I have come to the con-
clusion that a visit to friends so far away, and
at so much cost, and the risk of one's life is
not repaid by the brief pleasure it affords, in
viewing the home of one's childhood, or
visiting the friends of our youth, when their
views and feelings are so opposite to our own.
Realising the truth that the world does not
love those who have gathered themselves out
from it to serve God more perfectly. I am
thankful to say my son enjoys the spirit of his
mission and is laboring faithfully in and around
Sheffield preaching out of doors during the
summer for the most part and had the
privilege of baptizing some; like myself was
not in love with his native country, and
would not stay a day longer if it were not for
his mission to preach the Gospel. He is
treated kindly by the Saints though they are
very poor, his heart often being pained to see
so much poverty: amongst them, while their
desire is to gather to Zion with but little hope
of deliverance. Our young brethren, are blest
with the Spirit of the Lord in their labors and
are willing to endure all things for the Gospel's
sake. So few feel interested with regard to
their soul's salvation, or with the principles
of truth and righteousness, that they are in-
deed like the fisher, and hunter, sent out in
these last days, or it is like the gathering of
grapes when the vintage is over. The rainy
summer caused England to have a very gloomy
appearance; I would think sometimes surely
the sun has refused to shine upon the land, and
that darkness covered the earth and gross
darkness the minds of the people.
			Yours affectionately.
							E. H. Goddard,


[Column 1]
