OBITUARIES.

	Isaac Dunford, whose sudden death was
briefly noticed some few weeks since, was born
June 23d, 1824, in Trowbridge, Wilts, England.

[Column 2]
He was baptized in said town by Elder John
Halliday, in the month of July, 1848, was or-
dained an Elder under the hands of his brother,
George Dunford, and was appointed President
of the Steeple-Ashton branch, Jan. 9th, 1853.
On his departure for America, the Saints over
whom he presided, presented him with a beau-
tiful memorial, inscribed on parchment, as a
token of the high esteem and respect with
which he was regarded. Brother Dunford re-
mained at Saint Louis, where he labored for
the support of his family, and to acquire the
necessary means for their journey to Utah.
He was always faithful in his tithes and liberal
in his offerings, and those in need found him
a friend indeed. He was subsequently ap-
pointed President of the Saint Louis Con-
ference, which position be filled with dignity
and honor, and arrived in Salt Lake Valley
Sep. 25th, 1864. He was employed by the Hon.
Wm. Jennings as salesman, for two months,
whose employ he left voluntarily, and in com-
pany with Elder James H. Hart, in the cold,
dreary days of December, wended his way,
with ox teams, via Franklin and Soda Springs,
to the beantiful Bear Lake Valley. He located
in Bloomington, where he made, by his indus-
try, a comfortable home. Although unaccus-
tomed to manual labor on his arrival in Bloom-
ington, he worked alongside and shoulder to
shoulder with born and bred farmers and
mountaineers, and by his energy and perseve-
rance succeeded in getting a comfortable home
and beautiful surroundings, which he had
scarcely completed when he was called away.
	He was actively engaged as a home mission-
ary, in which capacity his labors were ap-
preciated by the Stake Presidency and by the
people. He was ordained a High Priest, under
the hands of President Charles C. Rich, which
office he strove to magnify. He was modest
and retiring in his manners, and would take
the lowest seat in the synagogue; but he was
uncompromising in defence of the Gospel. In
his testimony of the Latter-day work was bold
as a lion. On the last Sabbath of his life your
correspondent called upon him from the hum-
ble seat he had selected, to sit among his peers
and fellow laborers.
	He was thrown from his wagon in Black-
smith's Fork Ca[-]on, whilst en route to Salt
Lake City. to attend Conference on the 4th of
October, 1879, and was killed instantly, his
wife and three children with him at the time
escaped unhurt.
	He was the father of seven sons and six
daughters. He leaves a loving wife, six
sons, one daughter, and five grandchildren
with a host of friends to mourn his loss.—Des.
News.

	DIED in this City Sept. 18th, 1879. Of diph
therea, Nora, daughter of James P. and Jane
Freeze, aged five yerrs.
	Our little Nonie "has passed from death, unto
life; her loving disposition and sweet winning
ways endeared her to our hearts with a strong
and tender tie, but, while we feel that a bright
ray of sunshine has been taken from our home:
Hope points to a glorious meeting when all
tears shall be wiped away and death will have
no more power to rob us of our treasures and
make our hearts desolate.			L.

	DIED in Peoa, December 24th, 1878, Emma
Reed Wright; aged twenty-six years; leaving
a husband and one child to mourn her loss.
	In the same place August 9th, 1879, Dorothy
Hanson Jorgenson, a native of Denmark, aged
thirty-give years; leaving a husband and five
children to mourn her loss.


Also October 8th, 1879, Annie Carlson Jenson
a native of Sweden, born February 25th, 1844.
Sister Jenson embraced the Gospel in 1868,
and came to Utah in 1869. She was a teacher
in the Peoa Relief Society from its first organ-
ization up to her death, attending to her duties
faithfully, and was loved and respected by all.
She died in full faith and fellowship in the
Gospel, and leaves a loving husband and four
children to mourn her loss.
	Sisters Wright and Jorgenson were also faith-
ful members of the Relief Society of Peoa, and
were respected by all who knew them.
	L. M.


