Y. L. M. I. A., 11TH WARD.

	As this Association is for the improve-
ment of the young, I will endeavor to write
that which I think will be a benefit to the
girls, as also to myself. I am aware that
there are many temptations for the young,
and unless we are prayerful the adversary
will have power over us to lead us to de-
struction; therefore it behooves us to be
diligent and seek earnestly to God for a
testimony of this work. It grieves me
very much when I see the course that
many of our girls are taking—those who
have been raised in this Church. They
do not seem to realize what they are doing,
and that it will bring sorrow to them in a
day to come. All they think of is the
pleasure it will bring at the time; they do
not give the future a thought. We hear
some girls making very foolish and unwise
remarks in reference to marriage. * * *


I would say to them, be careful and use
judgment in the selection of a partner for
life, and seek a man of God, one who is try-
ing to live his religion, for marriage is in-
deed a serious thing; and when you do
marry, be married according to the law of
God, through the new and everlasting cove-
nant. Do not throw yourself away on those
men who come here seeking the destruc-
tion of the young.	*	*
	I would also say to mothers, be careful
in the training of your daughters, and
should you hear them speak unwisely or
injudiciously of sacred and holy principles,
tell them of their folly and the disgrace
they will bring upon themselves and their
parents. A great deal depends upon moth-
ers, for a mother's advice will never be
forgotten. Not long ago I heard a lady ex-
press herself most indiscreetly regarding
her daughter. I did not say anything, but
I had my thoughts. Girls cannot be blamed
if their mothers give them improper advice;
still, they would not be justified in doing
that which they knew to be wrong. I
would say, let us lay aside all folly and seek
to serve God and keep His commandments,
that when we have acted our part on this
stage we may gain an eternal exaltation.

