SILK MEETING.

	Meeting of the Utah County Silk Asso-
ciation, held Nov. 8, 1879, at Provo City.
	Besides the presence of Mrs. Margaret
T. Smoot, presiding, with counselors and


presidents of the district organizations,
Sister Zina D. Young, Sarah M. Kimball,
Hannah T. King and Emmeline B. Wells,
of Salt Lake City, were in attendance.
	Favorable reports were received from the
districts of the county. After explanatory
remarks by Pres. M. T. Smoot, relative to
the local organization and business, Bishop
Wm. Paxman spoke encouragingly of the
efforts of the sisters; followed by Elder
Daniel Graves, who advocated the adoption
by the Association of the method known
as the Cottage Culture of Silk. Advised a
liberal sowing of lettuce seed this fall, as
lettuce leaves could be used for feeding the
young worms in case the late frosts of the
coming spring should destroy the first crop
of mulberry leaves, as was the case in some
districts the past season; also advised the
secretaries of the districts to be careful and
preserve on record correct statements of
the silk and eggs produced, that true statis-
tical reports could be obtained if required.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young, President of Dese-
ret Silk Association, assured the members
of the Association that Pres. John Taylor
was greatly interested in the success of
Sericulture, and that he was using his in-
fluence with a view to practical results in
the erection of suitable buildings, with im-
proved machinery, for the manufacture of
the silk of the Territory. Encouraged the
planting of the mulberry tree in all the
available space that could be found, for or-
namental trees, live fence, or direct service
in sericulture, that the children may have
an opportunity of being trained in habits
of industry. Due notice would be given of
any general movement of the proposed
Territorial Meeting, that the Presidency, of
the Stakes and districts might have an op-
portunity of attending.
	Others of the sisters from Salt Lake City
offered remarks in the encouragement of
the business, giving good counsel and ad-
vice in regard to the observance of every
effort being made to make the business a
success, extending their remarks to por-
traying the virtues and ambition that should
characterize the mothers in Israel in help-
ing to sustain Zion, not only in making the
apparel of her daughters beautiful in the
workmanship of their own hands, but in
training their children in all the virtues
becoming the professions of Latter-day
Saints.
	Meeting adjourned until the 14th of Feb-
ruary, 1880.
						A. JONES, Sec'y.


