BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The "Tout ensemble" is elegant, the figure
tall, supple and graceful—altogether indica-
tive of the inner man, remarkably verify-
ing the aphorism that "the spirit makes
the form." The triune national character-
istics appear forcibly in this character, and 
he claims progeniture from each. His
mind is of the highest order, nothing low,
or sensual, dwells there; and though con-
stantly moving in a radius of worldliness,
it seems ever "a thing apart" from the at-
mosphere in which his heart and brain re-
volve. The head denotes a temple for
meditation, the forehead massive, denoting
power, the hair light, complexion fair, eyes
blue and penetrating, nose straight, mouth
rather large, teeth fine, a countenance that
will bear looking at. The expression, with-
out qualification, good; that of the eyes
earnest, gentle and spirit-thrilling, and that
repel not; they infuse no fear of miscon-
struction, so we feel "at home" at once; in
them we see candor, purity, generosity and
humility, in fine, that "touch of nature
which makes the whole world kin!" Man-
ners gentle, apprehensive, hasty and hur-
ried, which the friction of conventionalism
would soon wear off, and polish into sedate-
ness; a mind open to conviction, and ready
to be set right when erring, possessing no
small pride, that will not bend to more ma-
ture experience than its own. The charac-
ter is most methodical; if order is not de-
veloped on that cranium, phrenology is no
science! more decision and firmness than 
are usually found in fair complexions;

[Column 2]
strictly conscientious and active in the busi-
ness of daily life; fond of literature and in-
tellectual enjoyment, with a good discrimi-
nation and judgment in such matters. A
mind fully capable of appreciating the 
mental magnates of the present day, and
those of a past age; possessing a love of
beauty, whether in the tree, the flower, or
"the human face divine." All pure and
rightly constructed minds possess this, es-
pecially when cultivated and refined, and
enables them to worship the God of nature
"with the spirit and with the understand-
ing;" and through my "magic glass" I per-
ceive this soul is charged with as little dross
as is usually mixed up in human compounds
—that said compound requires a portion of
alloy to bear the wear and tear of this
work-a-day world. "Gold too highly re-
fined will not bear the stamp that renders
it current!"
	Alas! If we etherealize too much, we be-
come unfit for the matter of fact duties of
life; but soar we must and will, and La-
martine, and De Stael, and Young, and 
Shakespeare, and other beloved immortals,
have done their best to lend us wings that 
bear us to "Les Champs Elysees!" And 
they have carried me off from my charac-
ter! No, they cannot do that, it is so mixed
up with them, that if I speak of one I re-
member the other, and though our names
appear not on the earthly scroll on which
theirs are emblazoned, we are of the same
kith and kin, because we love and appre-
ciate them; and in the grand eternities shall
surely meet them.
	This character is firm and faithful in its
attachments—in friendship devoted and
honorable, even to a romance; change of
creed or circumstance may wound, may
startle, may cause it to mourn, but it set-
tles back loyally to its plighted troth, as
the needle to the pole.
	Its cup of life has been mixed with the
bitterness of death—even in early manhood
it was called upon to drink the draught
that separates the loving on this earth. It
plighted eternal faith to the memory of the
departed, and its life has ratified the vow.
It worships God as the Giver of all good,
and bows resignedly to His decrees, and to
such He gives the silent unction of His
Spirit, and bears them over the dark chasms
and the deep waters of this sublunary
scene. Faithfulest of friends, I leave you
in the Eternal Arms.

