NORMANDY PEASANTS.

	A correspondent of the New York "Tri-
bute" writes an interesting letter on the
French peasants of Normandy:—

[Column 2]
	"The progress in this rich province of
the blouse-wearing class has been, since
the German invasion, prodigious. The
peasants here are not yet accustomed to
American farming implements, but they
soon will be if the government does not do
Prince Bismarck the favor of entering into
a tripartite league with Austria and Ger-
many against the manufactures of agricul-
tural products of the United States. The
greatest growth here is in the spirit of po-
litical inquiry that has grown up among
the people. In former times, that is, under
the Emporer Napoleon, and later, under the
Duc de Broglie, the vintner of the rural
commune took a single Paris paper. When
it was spelled through by his customers it
circulated slowly through the cottages.
The blacksmith had the reading of it for
one day, the tailor for another, and so on
until it had gone the rounds of the whole
neighborhood, and had become used up and
torn as an old bank-note that has been in
brisk circulation. This mode of clubbing
for a newspaper was illegal; but the thrift
of the peasants and their intense desire to
be acquainted with the fluctuations of the
money market were too much for the gov-
ernment. An Italian financier—whom
those who knew him called Monte Christo,
and who is now a millionaire ten times
over—did the Bourse articles of the "Siecle,"
which were soon found out and appreciated
according to their great worth in the vil-
lages where there were crocks full of mon-
ey, saved sou by sou, to invest. There was
scarcely a cider-shop in the whole province
in which that journal was not taken twelve
years ago. I find now that throughout
Normandy the Paris newspapers are sold at
Paris prices, and that bumpkins club to take
a whole lot of them. For the "Figaro"
there is little call. The "Gaulois" is also
'dull' in the market. They are both reac-
tionary, and the tittle-tattle in which they
indulge is not to the taste of the Gibeonites
of French civilization who look for serious
information to the newspaper. 'What does
it matter to laborious farmers,' said to me
yesterday the proprietor of a hotel at Lan-
grisne Sur Mer, 'whether the garters of
Cora Pearl are pink or blue, or whether she
washes herself with arsenical or pure spring
water? I don'[-] care a rush for a cleverly
concocted canard. Neither does any one
about me. Albert Millard sets the absinthe
drinkers laughing with imaginary memoirs
of Gambetta's Cook, Monsieur Trompette,
in which the President of the Chamber is
made to speak like a Zany at a fair. What
I want to know is how our representatives
really discharge their duties, and what
laws to lighten our taxes are proposed. I
want to learn whether the Army is becom-
ing efficient; but instead of receiving the
information I look for, some joker enlight-
ens me about the cheese-paring economy of
the Count de Paris when serving this au-
tumn as a Colonel in the Territorial Army.
If the reporters of the Boulevard journals
only came here in winter when we have
time for gossiping about those who were
here in the fine weather, they would hear
more scandalous anecdotes about the great
folks of Paris than they could serve out to
their readers in a twelvemonth. The
farmers round here are good republicans
and serious politicians. They know what
political supineness costs them, and they
try to instruct themselves. It is not either
"Figaro" or the "Gaulois." you may rest
assured, whom they will take for their in-
structors. You think them heavy louts;
they are deuced shrewd fellows, and they
are fast extricating themselves from the
mire of ignorance.'"—Ex.


