BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	I shall devote this chapter to eating and
drinking, breakfast, lunch, luncheon, din-
ner, etc.
	"Since custom is the principal magistrate
of human life, let men by all means endeav-
or to obtain good customs."—Lord Bacon.
In writing on these topics we shall en-
deavor to give our young people some true
ideas of the manners of polite society at
the present day in a general sort of way,
as of course very little definite information
can be imparted in one or two short articles.
Eating and drinking are positive necessi-
ties to life, and to preserve one's health it
is necessary that some order be observed in
regard to eating; also that the meals be
appetizing and enjoyable. There are many
people who scarcely take this matter into
consideration, and yet it is a subject of real
importance to health, and health is necssary
to happiness.
	To understand properly the etiquette at
table, so as to feel at ease in the society of
people who have had an opportunity of be-
ing well disciplined in the elegancies of 
eating and drinking, is certainly a very de-
sirable thing; and indeed it is something
to which due attention should be given, if
one has an ambition to be agreeable, and
not to be looked upon as a boor, ignorant of
those pleasant customs that make social in-
tercourse delightful. It is best to have or-
der at table in one's own home, if it is pos-
sible, and these things can be made possi-
ble under any ordinary circumstances, in
the cottages of the working people as well
as in the mansions of the rich; a clean,
tidy room, a neat white cloth, even though
it be of the poorest material, the food,
though ever so simple, well cooked, the
knives, forks and spoons bright, and the
general appearance of the table one of com-
fort. though no luxury can be afforded.
Children should be taught to eat in a quiet
and proper manner, instead of having their
food served out to them in a slovenly way,
as many mothers are apt to do to save trou-
ble. Books of etiquette usually tell us how
to conduct ourselves at table in society, at
dinner parties, entertainments, wedding
receptions, etc., but to do this a proper sys-
tem of order in all its minute details must
be observed in the home. There are com-
paratively few people in the world. who
have the tact to adapt themselves readily to
manners and rules in which they have had
neither training nor experience. Although
it is a very common remark that the looks
of an article of food, or the way in which
it is served, makes no difference as to the 
taste, yet those who can appreciate nice
distinctions know that meals artistically ar-
ranged and served tastily are eaten with a
far keener relish, and afford infinitely
greater satisfaction, than when done in a 
hap-hazard sort of way.
	But as it is impossible to determine for 
another what particular method of action
will best suit their circumstances and con-
ditions, we will only give some general in-
struction about eating, as laid down by Mrs.
Ward, Eating with one's friend under
their own roof is regarded as a sign of
friendship, and it is highly improper to ac-
cept an hospitality from an enemy. This
is the feeling of all honorable people. "Some
are deterred from accepting invitations by
the feeling that they cannot return the hos-
pitality in as magnificent a form. It is not 
the costly preparations, nor the expensive
repast offered, which are the most agree-

[Column 2]

able features of any invitation; it is the 
kind and friendly feeling that is shown. It
is a mistake to think that in giving a din-
ner it is indispensable to have certain
dishes, and a variety of wines, because
others serve them. * * * Some of the 
most agreeable dinners given are those
which are the least expensive. * * *
When everything is good in quality, and 
the dishes are well dressed,served warm and 
in proper succession, with their adjuncts,
and where the guests are congenial, a de-
gree of enjoyment will be insured that no
one need be afraid to ofier. * * Small
dinners can be better served than large
ones," and there is more real enjoyment to 
be derived from them. A host and hostess
generally judge of the success of a dinner
by the manner in which conversation has 
been sustained. If it has flagged often, it
is considered a proof that the guests have
not been congenial; but if a steady stream
of talk has been kept up, it shows that they
have smoothly amalgamated as a whole.
	"Invitations for a dinner party are not 
sent by post, and only answered by post
where the distance is such as to make it in-
convenient to send by a servant. They
should be issued in the name of the lady
and gentleman of the house ten days or a 
week in advance. They should be answered
as soon as possible, and, if accepted, the
engagement should on no account be lightly
broken. The hours most generally selected
are six, seven and eight o'clock. To be ex-
actly punctual on these occasions is the 
only politeness. Whom to invite is a con-
sideration which requires the exercise of 
judgement and discretion. Dinners are
generally looked upon as entertainments
for married people and the middle-aged;
but it is desirable to have some young un-
married persons. Those whom you invite
should be of the same standing. Care
must be taken that those whom you think
will be agreeable to each other are placed
side by side around the festive board. Good
talkers are invaluable at a dinner party—
people who have fresh ideas and plenty of
warm words to clothe them in; but good
listeners are equally invaluable. No one
should ever monopolize conversation, unless
he wishes to win for himself the name of a
bore, and to be avoided as such.
	"It has been said the numbers at a dinner
party should not be less than the Graces,
nor more than the Muses; when the num-
ber exceeds this limit, it is an excellent
plan to have the name of each couple left
on a tray for the guests to select those
which bear their names, that they may
know whom to escort to the table.
	"Fifteen minutes is the longest time re-
quired to wait for a tardy guest; then the
dinner should be announced, and the host
offers his arm to the lady who is to be es-
corted by him, the others follow arm in
arm, the hostess being the last to leave the
room. A host waits upon the oldest lady,
or the greatest stranger, or, if there be a 
bride present, precedence is given to her.
The hostess is escorted either by the oldest
gentleman, or the greatest stranger, or some
one whom she wishes to place in the seat
of honor at her right. The host places the
lady whom he escorts upon his right. The
seats of the host and hostess may be at the
middle, on the opposite sides of the table,
or at the ends."


[Column 1]
