EDITORIAL NOTES.

	RHEUMA says she dont care to answer to
Roll Call when the Convention is merely to
consider the political rights and wrongs of
women. But when the object is to adjust
equal Civil and Political rights and privileges
for men and women, she wishes to be always
counted present.
	THE half volume of the EXPONENT
closed with our last issue and as many
of our subscribers pay half-year subscrip-
tions we trust they will remember to
renew promptly.
	HON. George Q. Cannon Delegate to Con-
gress from this Territory, left for Washington
on the morning train Tuesday the 25th, ult.
He was accompanied by his wife and two
daughters. Mr. Cannon has probably reached
Washington in time for the opening of the
second Forty-sixth Congress which takes
place to day. Mr. Cannon is greatly respected
in Washington notwithstanding his peculiar
religious belief and practice. It is impossible
for them to say anything against him person-
ally his conduct and manner being above re-
proach. We hope Bro. and Sister Cannon and
the little girls, Misses Mamie and Emily, will
pass the winter pleasantly.
	We have received several grain reports
since the Grain meeting was held but we are
anxious to hear from all parts of the Territory
where grain is stored, or granaries have been
built, and the particulars in regard to the size
of the storehouses or bins, the cost, the material
used in building, or any other item connected
with this important enterprise. Do not fail to
specify how much of the wheat reported has
been gleaned.
	We have received a full file of vol. 2 of the
American Kindergarten Magazine published
in New York City an interesting little work
giving instruction on this method of teaching
the little ones. Miss Emily M. Coe the
editor, is the originator of the American
Kindergarten System of Education and of New
Material. In her letter to us in reply to ours,
she says, "I am glad we agree so perfectly on
the question of properly, educating the children.
I firmly believe that 'tis the only hope of our
land, and how sad that parents and teachers
are not awake to it as they should be. Like
you, I sympathize heartily with working wo-
men, and regret it is so difficult to find one
who is really well-trained to fill any important
position. We who realize it must do all that
we can for the children. And this is one
reason why I am working and longing for the
establishment of Kindergartens all over our
broad land, so that the little ones in every
city, village and hamlet may enjoy its
thorough training."
	Our readers will see that Miss C[-]e feels as
the sisters here do the necessity of beginning
at the very foundation, with the little children.
	Miss Coe's prospectus says in one of its
paragraphs. So to educate the children that
the terrible evils of our Social, Religious and
Political life shall be avoided, is the most im-
portant work of the present day. This par-
agraph is a sufficient text for a sermon on the
existing state of society in the world.


