WOMANLINESS.

	One remark which is perhaps more frequent-
ly made than any other in reference to the so-
called woman question is, "why don't you
confine yourselves to woman's sphere, the
home, and the mother, instead of interfering
with men's privileges and wanting to mix up
with the strife, confusion and corruption of
politices. Men and women are born to fill
different places and it is absurd to try to change
the nature of things, the order of God."
	The Scriptures say, "man is not without the
woman, nor woman without the man in the
Lord;" then when we live, in harmony with
God's laws we shall be united in our efforts
and not pulling seperate ways; but we must do
this intelligently. In every person there is an
innate feeling, I want to know for myself, and
it exists, in women as well as men, therefore
why should men say this, or that, is not for
women to know, they need have nothing to
do with law, or government ,or medicine, or
theology, or politics; we attend to all these
things for them, we adjust these matters; and
so they want the little girls to dress their dolls
and make endless patchwork quilts, and rag
carpets to save all the shreds of calico and cloth,
because they cost money, but meanwhile their
precious God-given endowments of heart and
brain may lie dormant comparatively, and the
nerve forces of women be used in economizing
and keeping up a constant struggle to make
"something out of nothing" and woman be to-
tally dependant on man's capabilities instead
of developing her own.

	Objectors to equal opportunities for edu-
cation of the sexes, and to woman's suffrage
argue that woman's delicacy will be foiled by
studying in the same classes with men; and
that she will come in contact with rough men
at the polls; yet their wives, daughters and sis-
ters may go to balls and parties with neck and
arms bare, and waltz and polka with men, and
they seldom think it indelicate, because, for-
sooth, it is the fashion, and custom has made
it popular; and the newspapers will speak of
the fascinating Miss, or, Mrs. So and So, and
her elaborate costume, while it denounces in
strongest terms and holds up to ridicule noble-
minded women, who are laboring heart and
soul for the elevation of their sex, and the good
of humanity.
	Men will be men, and women will maintain
their identity "While life and thought and be-
ing last, or immortality endures;" there need
be no fear on that score. Men are not usually
frightened to let women carry about great
bundles of sewing, for which, in many large
cities, women only earn a bare pittance,
scarcely enough to keep the wolf from the
door—that is womanly work; but let her dare

[Column 2]
talk about voting, or securing equal wages
with men for the same amount of work faith-
fully executed, and she must expect to be cried
down as lacking in womanliness, or propriety.
	Women should be themselves in all that the
word implies, but they should have every ave-
nue for learning open to them, that they may
have a better and more practical knowledge of
the conditions of life. Every mother should
become intelligently acquainted with her own
physical and mental nature, her life powers,
her nerve forces, before she takes upon herself
the sacred obligations of motherhood, and
identifies herself with a new life. Enlightened
motherhood is one essential element wanted
to lay the foundation for a purer and better
race of people.
	From time to time there is great complaint
made of women's lack of government at home
over her children; this is an indispensable
qualification in the character of a mother, if
the home is to be a place of order, of quiet and
of peace. Ignorant women cannot control
their children, because they do not know the
first principles of self-control. They can flog
them, or frighten them with ghost stories, as
many do, but that is not government. A more
liberal spirit and feeling towards woman's ad-
vancement will add greater dignity to that
womanly sphere of which we hear so much,
the sphere of motherhood and home keeper.
The best teaching in the world, and that which
remains deepest engraven in the human heart
is mother's teaching. Then how necessary it
should be correct, and full of light and intelli-
gence.		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


