REFLECTIONS.

	October has come and gone, November is
almost past, and snow has already fallen.
Autumn has put on and off her gorgeous
yellow dress, and the leaves are falling fast.
All nature looks as if life was extinct. O
how melancholy! The dreary north winds
are blowing hard. Old Winter is just at
hand; how sad the thought! how I wish it
would not come at all, for I take no pleasure
in cold, snowy winter; but while I sit in
my little home in the tops of the moun-
tains, rather lonely, and amuse myself with
the surrounding scenery, foremost among
which are the tall gigantic mountains,
crowned with snowy caps, it causes many
reflections upon the past, present and fu-
ture. I think of the horse and cow and
other animals that God has made for the
use of man, that range over the hills and
in the valleys, now full of life, and fresh
with vigor, in a short time, when winter
spreads his cold mantle of snow and frost
over the earth, they will be pinched with
cold and perhaps hunger, and will need
shelter and protection. Do we remember
these dumb animals, and make them as 
comfortable as we ought?
	I am something like the wild goose—
when winter comes I feel I would like to
pass into a more genial clime, and my mind
reverts to the happy home of my child-
hood, away in the past, the sunny South,
where I was encircled with dear ones that
have long since faded away and gone where
the weary cease from troubling and are at

[Column 2]
rest. I think of the many pleasant hours
spent in that genial, warm clime, where
the snow scarce ever falls, but gentle show-
ers of rain moisten the earth; no frost in
the ground, and evergreen the year round.
Where the whippoorwill and nightingale
sing their happiest notes, and the pome-
granate and honeysuckle bloom beautifully
and shed their sweet fragrance. Where all
kinds of mellow and delicious fruits, wild
and cultivated, abound—banannas and all
varieties of grapes. Many different kinds
of nuts to gather in the autumn, for pleas-
ant recreation to lay up for use and enter-
tainment for the long, mild winter evenings,
when we rested from the day's labors to
while away a few delightful hours.
	It was there, my dear, kind readers, in
that charming country, the home of my
childhood, that I heard the sound of the
Gospel, and forsook home, parents, kindred
and friends, and all the sweet associations
of social life, that I might be one with this
people. It was in 1844 when I first heard
the sound of the everlasting Gospel; the
proclamation penetrated to the very depths
of my heart. I listened to the sound with
pleasure and happiness beyond expression;
I embraced it and felt that I had come out
of darkness into marvelous light and liberty.
I counted the cost and laid my earthly all
upon the altar.  I was determined to be a
Saint, and I left all but my kind husband
and an orphan child, a little girl, and went
to Nauvoo. We arrived there in Septem-
ber, 1845, remained there until May, 1846;
then started across those wide prairies,
through mud and rain, for Winter Quarters.
In May, 1850, we commenced our journey
again, still stretching farther towards the
Rocky Mountains, finally resting in the
great basin of the Salt Lake Valley, and I
am still happy, notwithstanding cold
winter comes along every year.
	D. F. COX.
	Beaver.


[For the EXPONENT.
HOME.

	Home is a resting place for the weary a
place where love, peace, unity and virtue,
should always prevail. A place that when
storms threaten and dark clouds gather
around us, and earth seems gloomy and
dismal, we can take refuge in, and find
there true and loving friends to comfort the
aching heart, soothe the careworn brow and
cheer and console us when we are weary of
the cares of the world. A place where a
helping hand is extended to deliver us from
the snares, which all must encounter; lift
us from the pits, into which we are liable
to fall. It is not wealth that constitutes the
happiness of home, for in many homes
where wealth abounds contention and
strife exist.
	True happiness is found where the spirit
of God reigns supreme in the heart of both
parents and children; where the mother
the guardian angel of the home gathers her
little ones around her knee; and teaches
them true principles, both moral and religi-
ous: teaches them to reverence God, to respect
their parents, and superiors, to keep good


order, and to observe all, the rules which
should be observed in the family circle;
and then when the husband and father
comes home from his day’s labor, tired,
weary and perhaps troubled with the cares
of life let the wife and children greet him
with a smile, he feels refreshed and repayed
for the labor of the day and takes great
satisfaction, and pleasure in viewing the
pleasant face of the family. Such a home
the spirit of God chooses for an abiding
place and happiness beams in every face;
but I fear that there are many, too many
that realise the reverse but "there is no
exellence with out labor," no eminence to
be gained, no battle to be won, without a 
struggle and the only way is to struggle on.
If it were in my power I would impress
upon the minds of the mothers of Israel, the
necessity of rearing their sons and daughters
in the ways of the Lord, for I fear lest while
there are so many temptations and evil in-
fluences to decoy and lead away and the Youth,
that some of the sons of Zion may be led
into infidelity and her daughters fall a prey
to passion and folly. It is said and that 
truly, that HOME is woman's world, it is
her mission to preside at home and instruct
her children in eternal truth, that they may,
be instrumental in bringing to pass the
designs of the Lord. I would entreat par-
ents to set an example worthy of imitation
before their children, and strive to make
their homes, a paradise of peace. Where
love and union will prevail. And sin and
sorrow cease. L.E.W.
	Monroe, Nov 9th, 1879


