CHARACTER NINTH

	The character of a noble building is gen-
erally indicated by its portico, or grand en-
trance; so is a human character frequently
defined by the external appearance where
nature has had full play, and untoward cir-
cumstances have not intervened to prevent
it; occupation, association, or want of pro-
per training may in some cases impair the
external appearance, and then character is
not so apparent, but when law merges into
order, the spirit will decidedly make the
form.
	The personal appearance of my present
character is, I believe, truly indicative of 
the principal features of the same; figure
tall and well proportioned—it is said with 
truth that "proportion is beauty," hence
this character can lay claim to its quantum
of that attraction. Let us delineate it some-
what—that it is a star of great magnitude
in my heart's hemisphere, a noble speci-
men of humanity both physically and men-
tally, morally and socially; he stood a lit-
tle under six feet, the finely formed head,
that temple of thought, was fitly placed
upon a finely moulded neck and shoulders


[Column 1]
—a bust that might have served a sculptor
for a model—shoulders broad and falling,
beyond which tapered a finely developed
waist; limbs beautifully formed, the leg and
foot might have vied with a vestris; the
hand, as is usual, corresponding, pulpy and
tapering to the extremities; general carriage
noble, the walk vigorous and elastic, firm,
but agile, the foot firmly planted, and the
body flexile and graceful in every move-
ment; I have taxed my memory and can-
not recall an imperfection in externals.
and the features, let me not forget them.
Forget them? Memory is immortal on
them. Where shall I commence? The
forehead, equally high and broad; the eyes
quiet but penetrating—eyes you could not
meet if you had anything to conceal; the
nose Grecian; the mouth—I can feel its
beauty better than describe it! I have never
seen another that resembled it; even his
children did not possess it. It seemed chis-
eled, and the lips fitted into each other
with perfection; the complexion the very
picture of health. The charm of the face
lay in the great goodness of the expression,
which was benevolence and love. Had a
phrenologist known this character and ex-
amined this head, he would have said, "I
require no farther proof, phrenology is a
science." Charity, benevolence, purity,
yes, all that the heart looks for in man, was
shadowed forth in this venerated character.
Am I partial? I have a right to be; but
truly, my pen cannot, by any means, do
justice here, or my language would be
called flattering, inflated, and my picture
overdrawn, so difficult is it sometimes to
persuade people of the truth of God. N'im-
porte! facts are stubborn things, and are as
eternal as the Grand Pyramid.
	Did I live to see age and sorrow dim this
beloved character? Yes; and I was the one
that, for the truth of God, brought his grey
hairs with sorrow to the grave. He did
not cavil, he did not censure, but to lose
those whom he loved to an intensity was
more than his declining years could brook,
and he silently sank into the arms of death
with suppressed grief!" His life had been
of such a nature that he could almost com-
mand circumstances, and the love and de-
votion of his whole family had been his
"exceeding great reward." I look back
and think it almost enervated him; it made
him unprepared for such a sweeping blow—
to lose those who had been "the apple of
his eye," of whom he was so righteously
proud. Reason could not meet it, and re-
flection and cruel separation was death,
and silently he bowed his head and gave
up the ghost. My tears are falling! but I
turn to my God, for whom I laid this blessed
man upon the altar; I turn to the undying
soul inhabiting the courts of glory, living
now in undying youth and beauty, and the
glorious mind expanding into heavenly
prescience of eternal life. I catch glimpses
of light and knowledge that know and un-
derstand the why and the wherefore of
that which removed him from this sphere
of action. And though his name is em-
blazoned on no earthly scroll of fame, I
know it was traced by the recording angel
"in the chancery of heaver," sealed with
the signet of eternity! I dare say this, be
cause I believe the Scriptures to be the
Word of God, and in them I read!  "Re-
member thy Creator in the days of thy
youth; those that seek me early shall find
me;" and I know that he sought him in
his youth and early manhood, and forgot
him not in his maturer age, and therefore
he shall be found of him. And I read
again, "He that is faithful in that which is

[Column 2]
least, is faithful also in much." And to
him that laid out the talents committed to
his care it was said, "Well done, good and
faithful servant, enter into the joy of thy
Lord." Do those words mean nothing?
Are they not rather addressed to every one
who in sincerity and according to the best
light they have keep to the "straight and
narrow way that leadeth unto life?" Oh,
most assuredly! This, then, shall be the
epitaph of this beloved and venerated
character—"Well done, good and faithful
servant."					FINIS.


