	SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 17, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have been reading the various reports
of your societies attentively, and I have
been gaining some knowledge in regard to 
some of the societies here in San Francisco,
as I thought it might prove of interest to
some of your many readers.
	The different societies that I shall men-
tion are not of any particular sect. I visit-
ed the "Little Sisters' Infant Shelter;" this
is entirely a charitable institution, and was
organized by several wealthy little girls,
who have since grown to be young ladies,
and they are still the board of directors.
There are two hundred children from three
months to six years of age in the "Shelter,"
and were all the children of poor parents,
who have to work for support, and they have
no place to leave their children during their
absense, except at the "Shelter," and it
was designed for just such a charitable pur-
pose. The children all looked clean, and

[Column 3]

they had an abundance to eat, and a long
table, with high chairs on each side to sit
in. They have a large sunny room to play
in, and also a yard and plenty of toys that
were cast off by children more fortunate.
The sum of ten cents per day is charged
for each child, if the mother can pay, if
not, they are kept for nothing. The "Shel-
ter" is in charge of a capable matron, and 
she has plenty of assistance. It is in a very
prosperous condition.
	The Foundling Hospital is quite another
affair, and it is also conducted on the chari-
table plan, and it has been in a tottering
condition, until Michael Reese, the million-
aire died, and he bequeathed thirty thou-
sand dollars to it, and it is now in a flour-
ishing condition. There were some fifty of
these little abandoned waifs, in clean, cosy
cribs, when I visited it; sometimes there
are more, and sometimes less. These chil-
dren are nearly all very delicate; they seem
to have no vitality; they wither and die;
very few live to be a year old. They have
excellent care, and everything is scrupu-
lously clean.
	Attached to the Foundling Asylum is a 
Lying-in Hospital, where poor unfortunate
women can find good accommodation until
the crisis is past, when they go out again
and leave their little ones to the mercy of 
strangers. I know very many of these
waifs are adopted, but there is very often
so much disease in their little bodies, that
many do not care to take them. The poor
little helpless creatures, abandoned by those
who have given them life—what a worthy
object of charity! It does not increase the
crime, as many think, but diminishes it, for
many would, were it not for these houses
of refuge, crush the feeble spark of life.
	The "Home for Friendless Children" is 
conducted by a charitable lady of wealth,
who does it from pure love of children; she
takes all kinds of children and procures
good homes for them.
	Recently we have started what is called
the "Flower Mission." A bevy of girls as-
semble at a large hall and arrange flowers
for the indigent and sick, and every Thursday
a bunch is distributed here, there and at all
places where it is known there are sick peo-
ple, and the poor sick ones are allowed to
choose those flowers they prefer most. Flor-
ence Nightingale says the sick take great
delight in flowers. She speaks of a wild
nosegay being sent to herself when she was
ill, and from the moment it came recovery
became more rapid. What a beautiful
charity, to brighten the dying moments of
the poor, or friendless, with the flower they
love most. God is not unmindful of such
small acts, but He writes in the good book
all such noble deeds.
	There are very many charitable institu-
tions in this great city, and all more than
full. The Home for Aged and Infirm, and
the different Orphan Asylums must be
a great tax on the generous. We have also
a Protection and Relief Society. I am not
a member of any, but I find many ways to
bestow a little here and there; all sensitive
people do, for it is sad to see so much desti-
tution in this land of plenty.
