R. S. REPORTS.

	The Relief Society of Bennington, Idaho,
was organized May 22d, 1879; Sister Mar-
garet Van Orman was chosen for President,
Sisters Catherine Wright and Sarah Lind-
say, Counselors, Sarah Parker Secretary,
and Mary Hunter Treasurer. Our Society
numbers thirty-five members. Our meet-
ings are held semi-monthly, and consider-
ing the short space of time elapsed since
our organization, we are progressing favor-
ably; the sisters are liberal in Temple dona-
tions and those needed for other purposes.
A general good feeling prevails, and a de-
sire is manifest to aid the cause of truth.
	Praying God to bless you,
			SARAH PARKER, Sec'y.
		BEAVER DAMS, BOX ELDER CO.
	The sisters here were organized into a
Relief Society Feb. 16, 1879, by Bishop J.
C. Dewey; officers as follows; Sarah Ann
Durphy, President; Ellenor Bowen and
Martha Busenbark, Counselors; Julia Bow-
en, Secretary; Cynthia Durphy, Treasurer.
	Our Society numbers fourteen members
and officers. We are only a few in number,
but we are trying to do what we can towards
helping to build up the kingdom of God.
We hold our meetings semi-monthly, for
the purpose of performing our religious du-
ties and doing what work we can. Our
meetings are small, there being only an
average attendance of seven, but the sisters
are united, and feel willing to do all they
can to help in this great work. We intend
now to donate some to the Logan Temple.
We are trying to carry out the counsel given
to store up grain; we have a few bushels
on hand and are striving to increase our
little store. We also have a share in the
Deweyville Co-op Store, and some property
in the Treasury. We take the EXPONENT
in our Society, which is read with much
interest by the sisters.
	We were favored with a visit from Miss
Eliza R. Snow, of Salt Lake City, and Mrs.
Harriet and Mary Snow and Mrs. Susanna
Booth, of Brigham City. We held a short
meeting Aug. 12; the ladies each occupied
a short time in speaking, encouraging the
sisters to be faithful and attend their meet-
ings, and be diligent as mothers in teach-
ing the children true principles. May God
bless them and prolong their lives, is the
prayer of your sister,
		JULIA M. BOWEN, Sec'y.
		SNOWVILLE.
	President Harriet Snow and party visited
us on Oct. 18; we felt well to receive them.
They staid over Sunday, and then proceed-
ed to Park Valley, forty-five miles West.
and on the 22d they returned and held
meeting with the sisters and children; a
number of the brethren were also present
in the morning. The meeting was ad-
dressed by President Harriet Snow and
Sister E. Madsen.

[Column 2]

	In the afternoon President Snow organ
ized the Young Ladies' Mutual Improve-
ment Association; also a Primary Associa-
tion. After which Sister Abigail Rosen-
baum addressed the meeting in a spirited
and energetic manner, calculated to make
a lasting impression upon those who heard
her. Pres. Mary Goodliffe then addressed
the meeting in her interesting way and
represented the Relief Society of this place
in a good condition. Elder P. F. Madsen
then addressed the mothers and the young
folks; his address was most excellent. In
fact, it was a feast for us, all to listen to
the kind and able remarks given by him
and the sisters. The Bishop and his coun-
selors have our thanks, as they contributed
to make the stay of our sisters and friends
pleasant, and we shall long remember the
happy time.
			ESTHER GOODLIFFE, Sec'y.
		RICHFIELD, FIRST WARD.
	We do not wish to be forgotten, and
therefore will endeavor to give a short
sketch of our progress in this Ward. Al-
though we have been backward in a repre-
senting ourselves, we are in a thriving
condition; I believe all are trying to do their
duty as Saints of God. The teachers visit
regularly, and their reports are generally
favorable. Our meetings are well attended,
and we feel a desire to press onward in the
good work in which we are engaged. The
members are united in their efforts to do
good, and we feel like improving intellec-
tually as well as spiritually. Hoping we
may individually and as a Society add our
influence and unite in building up the king-
dom of God.
		ELIZABETH ENCE, President.
		MARY ANDELME,	Counselors.
