TER'S FACE."

The summer moon, in silver light,
	Her fairy picture overlaid,
Where drooping boughs and blossoms bright,
	Threw down their tracery of shade.
She sat alone, I ventured near,
	Softly beside her took my place;
She pressed my hand, "Oh! lady dear,
	I'm wearying for my daughter's face."

"'Twas for the holy Gospel's sake
	We left old England; left her there
Till we a home 'mid Saints could make,
	And she our toils and want be spared.
Grateful I've toiled, 'till faint at night,
	But oh! through all these lingering days,
I'm pining for the love and light—
	I'm wearying for my daughter's face.

"The good ship bearing my dear girl
	Comes nearer to me day by day;
O could I watch its flag unfurl,
	And welcome her from far away!
But weary miles of this wide earth
	Stretch out between, in dreary space;
I sit and mourn by our own hearth—
	I'm wearying for my daughter's face.

"I cannot wait for her dear feet
	To cross these mountains wild to me;
I must not wait, but go and meet
	The daughter dear I pine to see."
I could not answer her in speech,
	Her trembling hand I gently pressed;
When help is far beyond our reach,
	The silent love of all is best.

For many a mile, and many a day,
	They rode, their daughter dear to meet;
But slow for them, and long the way,
	Whose hearts with fond impatience bent.
At last, long ere the sun was down,
	They saw, below a sheltering hill,
The camp had halted, gathering 'round,
	Some scene with deepest interest filled.

With courteous mien, they near and pause
	Beside the group, and greeting one
With "Welcome, brother!" ask the cause
	Of the camp's halt, ere set of sun.
Ah! love hath quickest ear of all!
	They hear the sweetest lips' glad cry:
"Father and mother! dear ones all!
	Haste to me, kiss me ere I die!"

Ah, saddest hour that life has known!
	Ah, sweetest! that 'twas not too late;
Their tender arms enfold their own,
	Yet cannot wrest her from her fate.
Through storm at sea, and mountain gale,
	And weary march, her courage pressed,
Till nearing home she sank and failed,
	Too worn to bear joy's sweet excess.

They brought her here, that she might sleep
	With kindred faith, in holy ground;
And breaking hearts o'er her did weep,
	Who early won the martyr's corwn.
And they are nearing, day by day,
	The journey's end to that far place;
To meet and clasp, and dwell alway
	In the light and love of the daughter's face.

