[Vol12 | November 1925 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Golden-Rod Elsie Talmage Brandley]

Golden-Rod
By Elsie Talmage Brandley.
Gwen Keridan's color scheme?the one with which the fairies had endowed her at the christening?fortunately was that delectable combination of gold and sapphire, white and rose, which is the despair of every other girl; and she had the red mystery for lips that all beauty specialists search in boxes for. It was especially nice of the fairies to have picked Gwen for their gifts to adorn, as her extremely hard-worked salary, as stenographer at the offices of Bryce and Weldon, interior decorators, would never have consented to stretch itself far enough to pay for the mixtures and marcels which the other girls made use of, to show Mother Nature that she hadn't hurt their feelings so much after all in forgetting to touch them up in the days when she had them in her care. Gwen's salary considered itself very obliging to pay for all it did?rent of a tiny flat, food for Gwen and the crippled sister, and for clothes for both, besides tooth-paste, stamps, and the papers and magazines which Marcia needed so desperately to keep her from brooding over her condition. And Gwen never ceased being grateful to the responsible party, though she was a bit hazy as to its identity, for her blessings in the matter of complexion, natural waves, and the slim, graceful form which had the magic power of making her clothes and hats look, the minute she put them on, as if they had cost at least four times what they really had, and might even have been tailored expressly for her. This very satisfactory and comforting state of affairs gave Gwen an expression of radiant, care-free, girlish, happiness; and Marcia, lying flat on her back all day long, often stopped reading just to shut her eyes and see before her that merry, beloved little face, and hear in her mind's ear the ripple of low, sweet laughter that always seemed to be throbbing in Gwen's throat, waiting for release. Sometimes Marcia would say her prayers in the middle of the day, so that she could say, "Thank you. Lord, for Gwen's loveliness and laughter,' and she felt sure that it didn't sound flippant in the realms above. Marcia had so much time to think that she regarded it as a special dispensation of Heaven that she had so perfect a thing as Gwen to think about. Before the accident. Which had resulted in the injury to her spine, and the consequent complete helplessness, she had considered Gwen an adorable child who should never know anything but careful loving, and a chance to study all


the good and beautiful things in the world. She had been given the sacred charge of raising the little sister, and she would fulfil it gloriously. She would work hard and well, that the life-insurance money, left them at the death of their father, need not be touched until Gwen was ready for college. Then had come the dreadful accident; and every plan and hope had been shattered. The life-insurance money paid for the doctor, gave Gwen a short business course, and left enough in the bank to keep them from starving in case Gwen took sick or lost her job. Ever since then the position of the two was reversed. Gwen had been given Marcia's old position, and was financier, manager, cook, housemaid, and general comforter and joy-dispenser. Marcia's little world consisted of that part of the little home within her range of vision from the couch in the corner of it?and Gwen. She read things, of course, and always had interesting things to talk to Gwen about during the enchanting evenings when just the two of them were there together, but it was all vicarious experiences of book and story people, scientific experiments of unknown men, culinary achievements of unknown women. It seemed to her that Gwen's most ordinary word was more vital than anything in any book, for she lived in a world of real, live people. Who spoke aloud, wore actual clothes, and walked along cement sidewalks. Marcia lived for those conversations. "Sis," Gwen would say, "Marg West came into the office this morning and she had on a sleeveless dress, and gloves only to her wrists! Can you picture it? When I looked up and saw the endless length of freckled arm, I was utterly terrified!" or "Marcia, honey, you could never guess what we're having for supper, so don't try! I've decided that the potato is to lowly a food for us of the aristocracy, so shrimp salad shall be our portion from now on!" and Marcia, observing that Gwen left the house twenty minutes earlier than usual each morning of the following week, knew that she was walking to work, to save the extra dimes that the salad had cost, but she said not a word to show that she knew. That would have spoiled the whole thing, for Gwen loved planning little surprises. Sometimes they were not so little, either, but she liked to suppose that Marcia had no idea of them. Of course, they were as transparent as plate glass, and Marcia adored her for them. The phonograph had been the biggest of all. It had taken the money for her winter coat, and a dollar a week all winter beside. The breezy assertion that the old coat was in better style than when it was new. Tossed off so lightly, might have convinced a less understanding person, but Marcia knew that many a day during the coldest weather there was an unnatural bulge to Gwen's
GOLDEN-ROD 587
trim appearance, denoting a sweater under her coat. And every time the slightly rasping notes of the records fell upon her ear Marcia thought of the bulgy sweater, and tears of something like worship filled her eyes, and frequently dripped down so plentifully that she had to turn her pillow over. It was an evening in June that Gwen spoke the word her sister had half dreaded for some time. It came with studied casualness. "Marcia, do you remember my telling you last winter that Mr. Weldon's son had come into the office? He is to be taken into the firm, if he makes good, 'L. J.' his father calls him, so we all do the same, to save confusion. Well, I'm to be his private secretary when he needs me, and have a desk in a little room with the two other secretaries, instead of the outer office, and my salary is raised fifteen a month, and I love my work with him! Isn't it nice?" "Gwennie, it's gorgeous!" Nobody could have found anything lacking in the quality of Marcia's vocal enthusiasm, but her heart had dropped several degrees. The epoch-making 'fifteen a month' had been mentioned incidentally and the italics put upon the fact of loving to work with him. It was sure to come some day, that love that would crown the life of one girl and leave the other's desolate, but the fear that this might be the beginning, turned her cold and a little sick. Though not a breath of her dread tarnished the golden sincerity of her voice, as she repeated the formula. "Gwen, it's utterly gorgeous!" And in the following month, when no further mention was made of 'L. J.' Marcia's fear was quieted. Then, suddenly, "Marcia dear, would you mind much if 'L. J.' came here some evening to talk things over with us? (Marcia loved her for the 'us.) He is doing a couple of houses all by himself, and he has an idea that we can help out with the question of window-drapes. I've made a suggestion or two he seemed to like, and have told him how you are always reading up on such things, so he is anxious for a little help. You see, these are the houses to decide his fate. If they are right, he's to be taken into partnership, so you can't blame him for being worried, can you?" No, Marcia couldn't, and she'd enjoy having him come some time, she was sure. "I've told him to come on Friday." "All right, that's fine. Sometimes I've fairly ached to have a finger in a business pie again. When I was with Bryce and Weldon half my waking hours were spent in planning colors and curtains for their houses, though I'll have to admit that they


didn't often use my ideas. Bring him along." and Marcia resolved that she would bite her tongue off before it should ever utter a syllable that might tell of the chill in her heart. She must always pretend that she enjoyed it completely, looked forward to the times when "L. J." would come with his sample of chintz and velour, and his sketchbook. It was a chance to repay to Gwen a part of the debt she owed for these years of comraderie and laughter. In due time "L. J." was brought along, and the evening really was not bad at all. There was a great deal of fun batted. Back and forth, for young Weldon proved to be that boyish, poised, simple clever sort of American who puts everyone at ease immediately, by being so completely there himself. Marcia was included in every word that was spoken, and felt herself being really interesting to the young aspirant for a place in the firm. She was thankful not to be conscious of the sense of her own superfluousness which she had feared. Her ideas on home decorating were good, and, thanks to her reading-habit, very up-to-date and helpful. "L. J." was amazed at the amount of information she had at her command, and said so several times. Gwen served lemonade and cookies of her own making, of which their guest partook so freely that they feared he might be ill, but he seemed to have no such qualms, and went on eating. "By George," he declared, with vim, "I've not tasted such cookies since I used to loot Grandmother Weldon's cookie jar! Where do you find 'em, I'd like to know?" "Make them, kind sir," replied Gwen demurely, and found herself coloring foolishly at the look he shot at her. Marcia saw that look, too, and while she knew it to be one of admiring, friendly interest, she wanted men to have for Gwen, it shut her out, imperceptibly. The next time he came, it was with an armful of gleaming Golden-rod. Gwen was ecstatic. "Marcia, look! Golden-rod! It's just like we used to find up on Tompie's Trail before it was out anywhere else, and after it had quit blooming farther down in the valley. It makes me think my little-girl days are back again. It's?Golden-rod!" "L. J." appeared well-pleased with the reception accorded his humble offering. "I'd an idea you might like it, Gwen. You make me think of Golden-rod somehow, you know." That was all, but it left an unmistakable impression in the air that he meant a great deal more than was in those few words. Interior decorating was only one of a number of subjects which came in for a share of attention during the rest of that summer. They talked of everything?gardening, radio, fashions,
GOLDEN-ROD 589
tennis, poultry-raising, and politics; but the greatest of these was cooking?Gwen's cooking. "L. J." went into raptures over her chocolate cake, and transports over the lemon pies she concocted. "It's unbelievable that a girl like you can cook," he said once. "I have always divided girls into two classes?good-lookers, and good-cookers?and foolishly imagined that never the twain shall meet. But here we have the proven combination! Whew!" His obviously complimentary remarks always just missed being too personal, but there was an approving quality in his smile, a significance underlying his Gwenward glances that carried over the message of his growing interest; the fact that it did get over was attested by the tender, womanly sweetness which gradually came to take the place of the rollicking merriment Gwen had displayed toward Marcia?Marcia who needed so much love now that she was missing all of the glory life was pouring out upon the younger girl with such unstinted generosity. The summer had passed in a blaze of heat and happiness, and September was well along with its gift of heavenly coolness before Gwen could bring herself to speak of the new thing in her heart. Then one evening in the soft twilight she slipped down onto the floor beside Marcia's couch. "I can't fool myself any longer, Sis," she said simply. "I'm utterly and completely in love! And I believe he cares for me, too, though he hasn't told me so, formally. His houses aren't done yet, and I imagine he's waiting until he knows whether or not he's to be a member of the firm, before he declares himself. Do you think I'm mistaken about his caring, Marcia?" "No, Gwen, honey. You're right; I'm sure as if he had broadcasted it from L. J. W. It's dear of him to want to be quite sure of what he is asking you to share. And it will make me very happy to see you in the care of a man like him," Marcia replied with conviction. "Oh, Marcia!" and Gwen was on her knees with both arms tight around the other, and the fulness of her glad heart pouring out in her voice. But the very next day brought an end to her dreaming. She was glancing through the morning paper while waiting for the eggs to boil, and read that Mr. And Mrs. Alexander Sauls announced the engagement of their daughter, Jane, to Mr. Lawrence John Weldon, the marriage to take place in October, after Miss Saul's return from Europe. It was an ordinary enough bit of news to most people, but to one girl standing over the gas range, it was world-destroying. To her torture-numbered heart she advanced the feverish argument that it was her own fault, 'I should not have let my own feelings


interpret his friendship into something different! He has never said a word which a soon-to-be-married man might not properly say to any girl. He has been the soul of honor, and I've been nothing but a sentimental! Little simpleton, and it is up to me to forget the whole thing as soon as possible!' and she took that page of the paper and stuffed it into the waste-basket, that Marcia need not know. She would sympathize, and that would be the last straw. A decided pallor, and hard-boiled eggs were the only signs of anything amiss; the world-old excuse of a little headache, which will always cover a multitude of heart-aches, sufficed to quiet the question of Marcia's lips, and somehow the girl found herself at her old desk, with the world giving every indication of a firm intention to continue as usual. Gwen made a tremendous effort to be the same friendly, business-like secretary "L. J." had known, and succeeded surprisingly well, considering everything. He little dreamed how deadeningly life stretched out ahead of her that day. But the day was still holding earthquakes for Gwen. At home she found Marcia thrilled to the point of incoherence. Before she was well inside the room Marcia had hurled at her the bomb of her own felicitation. "Gwen, Doctor Foster and his wife have been here, and they are going to Vienna to study spinal diseases, and they are going to take me with them, for he thinks my back can be cured! Think, Gwennie, cured!" "Oh, Marcia, it's too wonderful to believe all at once! You'll come home to me all strong and well again? It's the answer to all our prayers, dear! It's the reason we could be brave in the face of everything you've had to bear." "But I won't go, Gwen, unless I know that everything is to be as we hope with you and 'L. J.' I couldn't leave you alone for three years, even to get my back made well," Marcia continued in a tone of finality, and Gwen knew without thinking it all out that their old game of "make-believe" would have to defend its right to existence now?tomorrow. "I love you, Marcia," she said. That night she did not sleep a wink; the morning after, she faced the hardest task of her life, for Marcia's sake. In answer to her almost inaudible tap on his door, "L. J.," in his cheery morning voice bade the tapper enter. She did, and walking straight up to him, plunged into the thick of it. "'L. J.', please don't interrupt me, or I'll never get up courage to go on. It's dreadful to ask the thing I'm going to ask of you, but it's to make Marcia go to Europe and have her back treated properly, so I must. You see she has a most mistaken idea that you and I care for each other in a serious way, and she won't
GOLDEN-ROD 591
leave me unless she's sure that I'll be taken care of?be left in good hands, you know?and she thinks they should be your hands. Of course, | know of your engagement, but Marcia doesn't, so would you mind pretending, just for a week that you'd like to marry me, so that Marcia can go in peace? As soon as she leaves, I'll jilt you?before the boat is out of sight?and not a soul will be harmed. Will you do it?could you?" The excitement had made of her eyes and cheeks a jumble of stars and roses. An inscrutable, masculine Mona Lisa smile came upon the face of "L. J." "Yes, I will, if you'll ask me to supper tonight, and have hot biscuits and honey!" "It's a bargain, then," and Gwen's cold little fist was closed for an instant in the man's big warm one. "At six-thirty, then," and neither one referred to the matter again all day. "L. J." was disconcertingly prompt. It was six-twenty-four when he sniffingly entered the door. "Biscuits ready?" he called boyishly. "I went without my lunch so I'd have an excuse to eat all I craved. They smell about right!" "Five more minutes," Gwen's voice from the kitchen sounded as light as the biscuits, but her heart was as heavy as the oven door. It was impossible to catch what was being said between Marcia and "L. J.", but Gwen feared the worst, and the sight of her sister's shining face confirmed her fears. "Fate is on our side, Gwennie, and I can't even wait to let "L. J." tell you about it himself. He wants you to marry him as soon as you can be ready?he asked if I thought you cared at all for him?imagine!" Gwen ran back into the kitchen to hide her scarlet face, and filled a pitcher with water to make them think it was water she went for. But there was already one pitcher on the table, so it really made her embarrassment more emphatic, and they all laughed. She wondered if she could possibly keep the tears back until "L. J." had gone, and if the ghastly hours would ever drag by. They did at length, and dropping into her bed she slept from sheer weariness. Then morning drifted into her consciousness like a shroud. At the office "L. J." very considerately avoided her until well along toward afternoon, when came a summons from his office. "There's a particular shade of yellow I'm thinking of putting in a house I'm doing, Gwen, and if you don't mind I'd like you to go with me and see what you think of it." Wordlessly she complied, and soon they were speeding in


his luxurious gray car along a road so full of happy memories that she could scarcely bear it today, in her misery. "Don't take me this way, please, 'L. J.'! It's Tompie's Trail, where the Golden-rod used to grow, and I'd rather go another way, if you don't mind. Unheeding, unanswering, he spun along to a point in the trail where Golden-rod flung its feathery beauty abroad in prodigal abundance. Stopping the car, the man climbed out, and gathered a great clump of it to thrust into Gwen's arms. Then he looked straight into her eyes. "Gwen, please don't interrupt me until I've finished, or I'll never get courage to go on! I just want you to know that I'm not engaged?that's my Uncle, Lawrence-John Weldon, and I'm not even named after him! And Jane Alexander is forty if she's a day. I've cared for you a lot, Gwen, but was so afraid that you regarded me as only a rather wearisome person who tried to inflict business on you after business hours, that I haven't scraped up the crust to ask you what you thought of me. Then last night, Marcia said that you had told her you 'did see a little something to like in me. Gwen, is it true? Do you honestly think you could care enough to marry me? Will you, dear? I love you.' There was blue mist in her eyes, and a rainbow in her smile. "Why, I don't even know your name, but whatever it is, I'll call you by it,' cause I'm so frightfully glad that it isn't Lawrence John." "It's Leander Joseph! Will you marry me, Gwen?tomorrow?" "Oh, Leander Joseph, I will, tomorrow, if you'll let me have Golden-rod for my bridal bouquet!"