Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
Teton Stake Reorganized
At the Relief Society convention held August 18 and 19, the Teton stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Susie M. Wilson, because of poor health, felt it necessary to resign from her position as president, and she and her co-workers were honorably released. Mrs. Wilson has been in the Relief Society presidency of this stake twenty-two years,?nine years as counselor and thirteen years as president. Her counselors, Mrs. Marian H. Price and Mrs. Hannah E. Stevens, have served the full thirteen years. Mrs. Susie M. Wilson has been a most capable and faithful president. She has manifested rare intelligence and vision in the performance of her duties, and has succeeded in placing the work of the Teton stake on a high plane. Mrs. Wilson has won the love and respect of 
Star Valley Stake
The Star Valley stake Relief Society was reorganized on September 23. Mrs. Martha E. Roberts, who has moved to Logan for the winter, was honorably released after eight years of faithful service. During her incumbency, Mrs. Roberts has put forth her best efforts and energy in the interest of the work, and has endeared herself to her associates as well as to the public generally. The members of the General Board appreciate the labors of Mrs. Roberts, and their good wishes go with her in her new home, where it is hoped she will continue to be interested in the work of the organization. The new officers of the Star Valley stake are, Mrs. Kitty D. Burton, president; Mrs. Ella C. Cook, first counselor; Mrs. Pearl B. Holbrook, second counselor; and Mrs. Alice A. Gardner, who was retained as secretary.
Eastern States Mission
Miss Marie Danielson, president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States mission writes: "The Relief Society work here in the mission, so far as I can tell, is going along very nicely. There are twenty-four organizations in the mission, and all ex-


cept five have held meetings most of the summer. August 19, we held a very successful Relief Society conference at Scranton, Pennsylvania. There was a very large attendance, including all the elders from East Pennsylvania conference. The sisters all seemed very much interested and appreciative for the conference. Just now we are busy planning for the Pilgrimage to Cumorah, September 22-23. During the week following, I am planning on holding conferences with the Relief Societies at Buffalo, Jamestown, Syracuse and Albany."
Idaho Stake
At the request and with the assistance of the Idaho Stake Relief Society Board, the Idaho state Board of Health held a Mother and Child health conference and clinic in Bancroft, August 27, 28, and 29. At this conference, which was attended by local doctors, also, two hundred forty-six mothers and children were examined, free, under the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner bill.
North Sanpete Stake
The North Sanpete stake Relief Society has been doing very good work during the past summer along health lines. During July and August free clinics were held in Mt. Pleasant, Fairview, Spring City, Moroni, and Fountain Green, the local doctors making the examinations, which numbered 157 in all. It is felt that much valuable information has been received through these clinics, which will result in corrective follow-up work. This stake also had a fly campaign and offered a prize to the ward destroying the most flies. It was very successful, and must have lessened the fly crop in the vicinity, as there were, by measurement and count, about 179,546 flies killed. The following summer programs planned by the stake board for the wards were very much liked and successfully carried out in nearly every ward: Suggestive Program Submitted by the North Sanpete Stake Relief Society Summer Work It -is suggested that each ward make a special effort to furnish good music,-either in the form of Glee Club, Solo, or Quartette: July 3rd: Special Testimony Meeting 15 minute Faith Inspiring Talk: Sacred Solo: Testimonies: July 10th: Work Meeting July 17th: Pioneer Program (For all Pioneers) (refreshments) 
 for the past fifty years, in sewing for the dead and those in need. They have given this service without any compensation whatever, and have always done their share of the regular Relief Society work, in addition. These women have looked upon this service as a labor of love. Their mothers were engaged in the work before them, and they were trained to it from early youth. They have left their own work at home and gone under all circumstances to serve the community, and the whole community joined in rendering to them a tribute of love and appreciation. The entertainment in honor of these faithful workers began with singing and prayer, after which the following program was given: Words of Welcome, by President Maud Dalton; Greetings and Tributes, by stake president, Mrs. Mary M. Marsden; Ladies chorus, by five nieces of Mrs. Hoyle and Mrs, Halterman; humorous reading by Mrs. Malinda Adams; vocal solo, Mamie D. Orton. Sentiments to the three honored guests were given by the following: Annie Gurr, Mary L. Orton, Julia Lyman, Amelia Topham, Sarah A. Stevens, Belle Empy, Elenor Bruhn, Marian A. Gudmundsen, Mette Rasmussen, and Amelia Burton, who also read a tribute from Mrs. Emily C. Watson of Cedar City. A duet was sung by Florence Joseph and Dean Richards; remarks were made by. The following brethren: Bishop Hugh L Adams, Charles Adams, R. H. Benson, and Walter C. Mitchell. Responses were given by the three honored guests, after which there was a general handshake, and delicious refreshments. Among those in attendance were five Relief Society stake officers, and twelve brethren making a total of 155 present. Liberty Stake "On June 29, 1923, a unique and practical testimonial was given to Mrs. Leona G. Holbrook, retiring first counselor in the Relief Society of Liberty stake. During the day, members and friends (the latter both male and female) spent a day working in the temple on behalf of the deceased relatives of Mrs. Holbrook. As a souvenir of the occasion, a book containing the names of these 245 workers was presented to Mrs. Holbrook, who expressed herself as being deeply affected by this action of consideration which, as she stated, would bear fruits into. The eternity. A few days previous to this, a dinner affair was given at the home of Mrs. Myr: le Ballard Shurtliff, president of the Relief Society of Liberty stake, in honor of Mrs. Holbrook. Toasts, songs, and other appropriate features contributed to the evening's delight and entertainment. The stake presidency and wives, and board members with their husbands, were guests. Mrs Holbrook was presented with a silver plate. The entertainment features were conducted under the guidance of Mrs. Gertrude Michelson, the newly appointed member of the Relief Society stake presidency. NOTES FROM THE FIELD S71 In Memoriam Box Elder Stake One of the victims of the recent flood at Willard City, August 13, was the president of the Willard ward Relief Society, Mary Fllen Brewerton Ward. At the time of her death, she was also the city treasurer. She and her daughter-inlaw, Agnes Mason Ward, the daughter of Charles and Emma White Mason, were the only ones who lost their lives in the flood at Willard. Mrs. Ward was the daughter of Thomas W. And Sarah Brewerton, early pioneers of Willard, and the widow of George Alfred Ward, who died October, 1897. She was born in Willard, in 1863, and was married at the age of eighteen. She and her husband moved to Elmo, Cassia county, Idaho, at which place all of their children, five sons, were born. The last twenty years of her widowhood she spent in Willard city. Her home life was always radiant with love and patience; her social life full of service and kind deeds. Gifted with a beautiful voice she was a member of Professor Evan Stephens early Willard choir, when a young girl, and a member of the Willard ward choir at the time of her death. Her home, a large firmly-built brick house, was swept away by the flood, not a brick remaining to mark the spot. This home she shared with her son Earl, and his wife Agnes, the latter perishing with her. Mrs. Ward was counselor to the former Willard Relief Society president, Mrs. Agnes Owens, and when Mrs. Owens moved to Salt Lake City three years ago, Mrs Ward was selected as president, with Mary L. Harding and Mary E. Lemon as first and second counselors, respectively. They were lovingly known among the sisters as "The Three Marys." Counselor Mary L. Harding died May 10, 1923, of influenzapneumonia, being ill only a few days. She was the daughter of George and Mary J. Harding, and was born in Willard, August 6, 1869. She spent her whole life in cheerful service for others. For many years she was a competent nurse, and was known throughout Box Elder county for her excellent ability as such. Following her mother's death, in 1913, she took charge of her tather's home. She held many positions of trust in her home town and was a devoted Latter-day Saint. She was always a friend to the poor and needy and will be greatly missed by the entire community. It is singular that these two good women, so closely related in life, should go to the Great Beyond so near together. But it is a satisfaction to their associates to know that they were prepared. No souls could have been more devo'ed to duty here than they were. Death was but an entrance to a larger sphere. Guide Lessons for December LESSON I Theology Lesson (First Week in January) SPIRITUAL SERVICE FOREWORD The Theology lessons will continue to discuss, during 1924, phases of practical relig'on. What. Spiritual Service Is: Service rendered with the God idea behind it is spiritual service. The God idea, coming to us through instinct, tradition, reason, and revelation, calls for service for or to a supreme Being or Power. The God idea is composite. It has in it the notion of supremacy. Supreme power to do what it desires to do, and to be where it chooses. The God idea contains the notion of supreme intelligence, or being in possession of all knowledge needed to wisely use power, and out of this notion of intelligence comes the assurance of justice and mercy. The Two High Objects of Spiritual Service: Whatever we may do for Divinity is prompted, in the main, by a desire to have _ his help for protection and prosperity at the present, or in the future, or to express our gratitude for what he has done or is doing for us. The only fear that comes near being a high motive of spiritual service is the fear of losing'God's help through the absence of his Spirit?the fear of being unworthy of his presence and failing to get what he would gladly have us optain. God glories in helpfulness, but our "will-nots' may result in his "cannots," else why did Jesus exclaim, "O Jerusalem,.. Jerusalem, how often would I have gathered thy children together... And ye would not?" Is there not in this utterance the declaration that man cannot be saved in wilfulness? Does not the Redeemer declare his desire to do what wilfulness of the people prevented him from doing? The fear of the Lord may be the beginning of wisdom, but the love of the Lord is wisdom fully developed, and the unmistakable evidence of this love is a willing obedience. "If ye love me, ye will keep my commandments", and no high grade keeping of commandments can come through fear. Spiritual Service As a Source of Happiness. The amount of happiness to be obtained from any activity depends upon the GUIDE LESSONS 573 love interest that we have in the person or cause for which the thing is being done, and the love interest we have in the doing of the thing. Then, too, we enjoy the consciousness of free agency in the act. One of the great laws of love is that we grow to love that which we willingly serve, whether it be light or darkness, peace or war, indolence or industry, God or mammon. The higher the service, the higher the love; the higher the love, the higher the happiness. Divinity must delight in spiritual service else he would not have set apart and hallowed one seventh of man's time for spiritual service, and proclaimed the first great law to be, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength," (Luke 12:30.) The great writer who said, "That which God delights in must be happy," was stating, in a graphic way, that whatever our Father in heaven desires us to do cannot fail to bring happiness. The person who says "I love my neighbor too well to be unfair with him, and I love the Lord too well to disobey his command?to love my neighbor as myself?'has a double draught of joy: the joy of social service and the joy of spiritual service. The Scope df Spiritual Service. Our field of spiritual service extends into the past, covers the present, and reaches into the future. It is akin to the whole truth, which is a knowledge of things past, present, and future. (D. & C. 93:24.) There is no dead past in the line of spiritual service, and when it is finished there will be no "unknown dead". Service for the Dead. Saving the dead is a spiritual service in which man is permitted to cooperate with God. It amounts almost to a comradeship with Divinity in a spiritual campaign of ? deliverance of those who, in ages gone by, were carried into captivity. To mortals it is an opportunity to become like God through working with God. The rescue gives training in the activity that made of Abraham a friend of God. -As Abraham rescued his captive relatives, without thought of spoils of war, so we seek the redemption of our dead, and without thought of what we may get from them. The service free from the taint of selfishness is one. Of the highest forms of serving one's self. The doctrine, that the completeness of our salvation, depends upon the salvation of the dead, (see D. & C. 128:15-16) may mean that our heavenly joy will be marred by the consciousness of the absence of some one who might have been there but for our neglect, and that our happiness cannot be even relatively complete until we are privileged to inspire some earthly agency to do the work that we should have done. The privilege of officially using the keys to prison doors, not to shut in the prisoner, but to release the penitent, is a 
 glorious one, and with it comes responsibility of no light weight. So stupendous is this work of spiritual service for the dead that it calls for a genealogist in every family, and a savior attitude by the whole family, together with work that claims more than convenience for its performance. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What does "spiritual service" mean to you? Illustrate. 2. Show the superiority of service through love, over service through fear. 3. What does the expression "fear God" mean to you? 4, In the light of what is said in Matthew 23:37 or Luke 13:34, are we justified in saying that a human "will-not". May result in a Divine "cannot"? 5. In what way may our neglect of spiritual service for the dead interfere with our own happiness here, and in the. World to come? 6. How does spiritual service for the dead help in our becoming: (a) like Abraham? (b) like Christ? -7. In what respect is one who neglects the dead like Pharaoh's Butler? (See Genesis 40, with special consideration of the last verse.) 8. What is the meaning of being a "savior on Mount Zion"? Lesson IT Work and Business (Second Week in January) Lesson III Literature (Third week in January) JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER FOREWORD America has challenged the attention of the world since the war in a very unusual manner; consequently anything that is American takes on added significance, for that reason both the history and literature of America is being stressed as never before. The literature lessons will continue to be a study of American authors. We want our Relief Society members to become familiar with the features of our American writers, therefore we include the photograph of the respective author under discussion.