The Music Page. Question  How shall we arrange a Stake Relief Society Choir? H. L. First. Be sure you have made a good selection in choosing your stake chorister and organist. They should be women of strong personality, full of enthusiasm, tact, perseverance, and patience, as well as being women of musical ability. This also applies to the sisters who act in these positions in the various wards. The stake chorister after her appointment should call together her local choristers, and organists, ward choir members, and any others who care to join. A regular day each month should be chosen for rehearsals, and some simple music adapted to the ability of the women's voices should be selected. Do not attempt to sing grand opera choruses, but choose some of the simple and beautiful music written by our home authors, music full of the spirit and genius of our work. What is lacking in musical ability in our Relief choir work may be made up in love, devotion, and enthusiasm. We need quality, of course, and we also need quantity, singers with influence, and enthusiasm. Get all the trained singers that are available, those sweet, true voices which have had some cultivation as well as those of good native ability, who are able to sing a solo if needed or to take the lead in duet or quartet singing. Of quantity  these make up the rank and file of a choir of no great talent, but whose hearts are in the work and who love to do their part in the service of praise. Be sure and include those rare souls whose sweet influence will bring others along, whose quiet assistance will do much to bring new members and keep up the interest of the others, even though they be not extra good singers. In stakes where wards are scattered, the stake chorister might select a few hymns or songs and give them to her local choristers to be learned between conferences ; then an hour's practice of the combined choirs before the stake cooference opens would result in a good stake choir. Sing the songs of Zion, and those of our gifted women writers. Where you have few opportunities to sing as a stake choir, an arrange to sing the old for with folks and the "shut-ins;" also have occasional social a concert program at least once a year. Admiral George Dewey and Homer Davenport. ? By Alice Louise Reynolds. Homer Davenport, the cartoonist, greatly enriched one of his public addresses with the following story of Mr. Dewey: In gratitude to Admiral Dewey for his services at Manila Bay, the people of the United States presented him with a home in Washington, D. C. He very promptly put the deeds of the home in his wife's name. This seemed to displease many Americans and the press was not slow in voicing this displeasure. About this time Mr. Davenport had a chance meeting with Richard Harding Davis. Mr. Davis said to him, /'Davenport, what do you think of all this 'hubbub' that is going on over Dewey's deeding his home to his wife?" "I think it is a great shame," replied Davenport. Davis. "Then why don't you say so with a cartoon?" responded Mr. Davenport argued the point with Mr. Davis, insisting that he should say the thing that needed to be said in a short story. "No," said the novelist, ''it must be done at once with a cartoon in one of our great daily newspapers; clearly that is your job, Davenport." On Mr. Davis' suggestion, said Mr. Davenport, I made a cartoon. I placed Dewey standing on a Man-of-war in Manila Bay. At a distance I placed Uncle Sam peering through field glasses at him, his very expression bespeaking pride and satisfaction. Into Uncle Sam's mouth I put the following words: "If he'd give his old shoes away, he's still the hero of Manila Bay." Sometime after, I visited Washington. In my mail I found a most urgent invitation from Admiral and Mrs. Dewey to call on them. I did so and was amazed on entering their drawing room to find hanging on the wall, in a frame, my cartoon. The old Admiral noted the look of surprise on my face, and said: "Mr. Davenport, that is just why we urged this visit. Do you know that in a nation where the men are noted for their gallantry as they are in the United States, I fancied that the thing I did would meet with popular approval. I was astonished beyond measure at the abuse it brought forth. Indeed, Mrs. Dewey and myself were so disheartened that we seriously contemplated moving 14S RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. to some remote village in France until the storm blew over. In the garret at this moment there is a trunk partly packed for that purpose. "You turned the tide. For days the most abusive letters ha 1 been coming to us from all parts of the United States. One morning we opened an envelope containing your cartoon. Attached to it was a note saying: 'These are our sentiments.' Day after day the mail brought letters of approval pinned to your cartoon. Then we began to know what the other half thought. So we gave up the contemplated trip abroad, and Mrs. Dewey teased packing trunks." BE YE ALSO READY. By Lucy May Green. Dedicated to President Emmeline birthday. B. Wells on her Eighty-ninth For many years our President's voice has sounded: Into the storehouse, bring the golden grain, Soon famine dire, and sorrow will o'partake you, Prepare! be ready for these days of pain, Prepare, Prepare! Garner the golden harvest, The summer is nearly done, Bring in the grain to the storehouse, The night will surely come. Throughout the world the voice of God is speaking In earthquake's violence, with fire and sword, Dread war's alarm, and oceans' bondage breaking. Prepare! oh, nations, soon to meet your Lord. Prepare, Prepare! Now is the time accepted, Soon will your day be done; Repent, receive the gospel Through Jesus Christ, the Son. "Now is the time," the* still small voice is pleading, "My Saints, be faithful, hear the living Word, Your dead redeem. Salvation's message heeding  Be ready to receive your coming Lord. Prepare, Prepare! Send forth the glorious gospel, Pray for the happy day When Jesus with His people Shall reign eternally." The Relief Society Ward President. By Annie Wells Cannon. There is, in my opinion, no Church officer to whom I would prefer to render tribute than that kind, forceful, and generous woman who has the task and the privilege to preside over a ward Relief Society. It is quite interesting to note the inspiration that seems to be given those in authority in the selection of women to hold this arduous position. Inspiration it certainly has to be, when one knows the many qualifications and requirements the office demands. How can a bishop and stake officer tell, even though they may have intimate acquaintance with the woman they select, that she will prove equal to the test! A successful president must combine many graces, besides the devotion of much time and energy. Therefore, one would fancy that the choice would fall upon an educated, capable woman, so well provided with earthly goods that she could afford to give time and means and thought to her position. On the contrary, the majority of ward Relief Society presidents  and they number nearly a thousand  are the busiest women in the community, known perhaps more for the capable way they are serving their large families than anything else. And why not? When one finds a successful Latter-day Saint mother, immediately may one know that such a woman has ability for other things, and will so manage her time that she can perform any task allotted her. The requirements for a Relief Society president combine many virtues  executive ability, faith, wisdom, patience, sincerity, and most of all charity, in its very broadest sense. Virtues which adorn any woman, not alone in the home, but any place she may happen to be, either socially or officially. King Solomon said, ''Find me a virtuous woman for her price is far above rubies." Among our Relief Society workers such women are numerous and their value is beyond calculation. Where can be found greater problems than come before the social service worker? How to provide for the needy: how to comfort the sorrowful; how to raise the poor in heart: how to serve and wait upon the sick: how to enter the house of mourning and prepare the dead for burial, at the same time comfort and cheer the mourners: how to seek out the poor, and the sorrowful, and provide for their wants; the task, too, to help the erring one, both by gentle admonition and a 
 needed lift along the. way. These are a few of the problems that come in the way of the ward president and her duty is to solve them all. That she is successful in her mission the thousands whom she has served will testify. Relief Society work, like all good things, carries with it a beautiful blessing, and though one may feel sometimes the strain of the work, at the same time one cannot help but recognize the wonderful help the work gives the worker. It is an education in the biggest, broadest sense. Not only development of mind, and strength of purpose, by that finer, richer education of the heart, which broadens the powers for good, which brings discernment. judgment and the most beautiful graces to the human soul. T have seen uncultivated, uneducated women of the poorer, hardworking class, develop all these graces under the work of the Relief Society and become most efficient and capable ward presidents. The woman may make the office splendid, but at the same time, the office makes the woman splendid. While we give a tribute of praise and love to those great women, the ward presidents of the Relief Society, let us also praise our Heavenly Father for the opportunities of Relief Society work. NOTICE. TO AGENTS. Only duly appointed agents for the Relief Society Magazine are entitled to the agents' discount of 10%. Agents are furnished with subscription blanks and receipt books from the Magazine office. They will please deduct discount before sending in subscription lists  otherwise the discount will not be allowed. We are sorry to announce that the January number of the Magazine is exhausted. All late subscribers will necessarily begin with the February number. The heavy storms have so greatly interfered with traffic that the February number was late in reaching subscribers, a matter which is greatly regretted at the General Office. Notes from the Field. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. CHRISTMAS GIFTS AND CHEER. The stakes in and about Salt Lake City make a feature of special charity work at Christmas time. Following are some details of their labors: Pioneer Stake. According to the usual custom, the different wards of Pioneer stake sent out a large number of Christmas baskets, besides small presents of money, soft slippers, handkerchiefs, comforts, etc., to the aged. There were 284 baskets sent out, ranging in value from $3 to $6 each. The Relief Society also distributed several tons of coal. Cottonwood Stake. In the Cottonwood stake $318.07 in cash and produce and 300 pounds of sugar were distributed on Christmas day to the poor. Each member of the Stake Board donated one quilt for distribution, making 18 quilts in all. Liberty Stake. In this stake, the following donations were given: Liberty ward sent 20 baskets, value $4 each; the Eighth ward, six baskets, value $3 each, and also $36 in cash; LeGrande ward, 46 baskets, value $4 to $5 each; Thirty-third ward, one ton of coal to each widow and needy family; Ninth ward, 12 families were each given $1 in cash; Second ward, 46 baskets. In the Tenth and Thirty-third wards, the bishoprics took full charge of the charity work. Salt Lake Stake. The Fourteenth ward distributed 27 baskets containing merchandise and $1 in cash; Fifteenth ward Relief Society assisted the bishop in sending out 36 baskets. The Relief Society donated the following articles to be added to the baskets: 3 quilts, 30 aprons, 2 kimonas, 2 underskirts, 12 pairs of ladies' hose, 6 pairs men's socks, 4 union suits, 1 pair slippers. 3 rag rugs three yards long, and $15 in cash. / In the Seventeenth ward $350 was collected by the Relief Society in cash and merchandise. Sixty baskets were sent out 
 containing meat, potatoes, sugar, butter, fruit, and canned vegetables. From $1 to $5 was added to the baskets, according to the needs of the families. To the sick and aged, a plant or a hunch of cut flowers was sent. The bishop of the Nineteenth ward took charge of the Christmas donations. The Relief Society prepared a hot dinner, and contained about twenty of the needy and aged. Tn the Twenty-second ward 24 baskets containing merchandise were distributed. Cash was collected and used to buy coal which was sent to those in need. Thirteen baskets were distributed, each containing merchandise and $1.50 in cash. The Twenty-fourth ward M. T. A. boy scouts assisted the sisters in the ward to distribute 30 baskets containing cash and merchandise. In the Twenty-eighth ward, the bishop took full charge of the charity work. The Relief Society sent ten old ladies $1 each. and on the first Tuesday in January, they entertained their ward teachers and the old folks. The Twenty-ninth ward Relief Society sisters assisted the bishop in sending out 16 baskets of merchandise; $2 in cash was -cut each widow; S48.50 in all were distributed. The Center ward distributed $14.80 in cash and merchandise, most of this going to four families. In the North Point ward there is no needy, and the Relief Society donated $5 to a ward entertainment for the children. Ensign Stake. The Eleventh ward distributed 70 baskets filled with groceries which consisted of sugar, canned peas, tomatoes, corn, meat; etc., and from 50 cents to $1 in cash; $40 in cash was sent out in this ward. The Twelfth-Thirteenth ward sent out 68 boxes. These boxes each contained a chicken, potatoes, groceries of all kinds, including one can of cocoa for each family and a hag of candy. end cash from $1.50 to $2.50. according to the size of the family: $50 in cash was distributed in this ward. Money was collected for the groceries and they were purchased wholesale by the bishop. The potatoes were brought in by members of