[Vol56 | February 1969 | Page 126 | Fiction | A Day for Diddle-Daddling | Alice Morrey Bailey]
er 4 Bea was silent for a few minutes. "Well, Jenny, one never knows. We both have a lot of forgetting to do. It's hard for me to accept the way Dick was so bitter about the deaths of his wife and son. I loved John just as deeply as any woman ever loved, I'm sure. He was the light of my life. But that light went out, and I have to make the best life I can for myself and our boys. His memory is a comfort to me, but one can't live with and for a memory. I remember him with love, and I'm not bitter that he's gone, just sad. And I know we'll be together again, that's the greatest comfort. Jennifer understood this. ''Perhaps Dick needed being around someone like you to be able to see this himself," she suggested. "Perhaps, I don't know. Ten years is a long time to carry a bitterness in your heart. It can't completely disappear overnight. And then, I'm just not ready for anything yet. In two weeks it will have been a year. I'm not mourning, but I'm still adjusting. First Christmases, anniversaries, birthdays, special days of all kinds aren't easy. There are so many firsts." she trailed off lamely.

[A Day for Diddle-Daddling Alice Morrey Bailey]

"I think I understand, Bea," Jennifer said quietly. The day following their conversation, Bishop Hopper phoned and asked Jennifer if she could come to his office and meet Dr. Mayhew. She was immensely impressed with the famous surgeon, and extremely pleased to learn that he was willing to examine Mrs. Miles, with the possibility of performing surgery as soon as possible. Jennifer wanted to call her parents and tell them, but decided that a detailed explanatory letter would be best. She explained everything, from meeting Bishop Hopper to her impression of Dr. Mayhew. She urged them to consult the doctor who was currently treating her mother, but most of all to pray about it, though she knew that would be their first act. It would be no easy decision. Surgery of any kind was frightening, and risky. There was no guarantee that her condition would be improved, or indeed, if she would survive the operation. Bea immediately began to make plans to have Charles and Elizabeth as her guests for as long as they would need to remain in Houston. Her friendship became increasingly more preclous to Jennifer. Each ring of the phone sent a fearful, excited chill down Jennifer's back. Finally, one evening she recognized her father's voice. Welcome the Task "Jenny, he said _ huskily, '"We've decided to take the chance. Your mother is _ losing ground now, so we'll make a fight for it." Tears came to Jennifer's eyes. Her dear, sweet mother must face a choice that was really no choice at all. Her mother came on the line and expressed her love for Jennifer and her faith that this was indeed the right decision; that she felt Jennifer was guided to Houston for a reason, and perhaps this was it. Jennifer would not attend school this semester, but would remain in Houston until her mother was able to return home. She and Bea met the plane. It was a joyous reunion. She hadn't realized how much she had really missed them until she watched them come down the ramp. Her tiny mother, with her brown eyes and auburn red hair shining, was smiling and leaning on her husband's arm. Charles was a big man, and looked even bigger next to his petite wife. Jennifer noticed that her father looked more serious than usual. His eyes were full of love, but his strong jaw was set, and he kept a protective arm about his wife. Her mother's optimistic personality always had a way of disguising the real issues, if they were unpleasant. She assured them that they had had a marvelous flight, and she was so grateful to Bea for taking care of her daughter, and for extending her hospitality to Elizabeth and her husband. "We've asked Nyta Rey to stay at the house with the boys," 

127 February 1969

 her mother commented. "She's been such a dear friend to me, and I'm sure she'll be able to help the boys through all of this." "Yes," Charles added, "and that boy of hers—Steve—sends his love." Jennifer blushed. Her mother had begun to suspect before Jennifer left home that Steve had much to do with her daughter's moods. Well, no mind, for he was a fine boy, and if her daughter chose him it would be a happy day for both families. "Pete has taken quite a liking to Steve," her father commented, referring to his impetuous middle son. "We all have, as a matter of faet."' Jennifer ignored the pointed remark. "I'm looking forward to coming home as soon as Mother can,' she announced quietly. "And, of course, you must meet Jim." Her mother patted her cheek as she always did in an expression of affection. ""We had hoped you would want us to, Jenny." Her heart sang. She would be going home. Home to Springville and the beautiful, rugged Wasatch Mountains which looked over the valley like a protecting father. Home to the lake, their street, the large brick home, and the huge lilac bush in the front yard, the big walnut tree in the back yard that had afforded her both shade and a back rest as she pursued the world through books during her youth. She hadn't realized how much _ she _ had missed all this until just that moment. She was looking forward to seeing Steve, yet she knew she would miss the attentions of Jim Long. 128 But, more importantly, she was going home to Dave, Pete, and Sam. Home to their teasing, their balking at being reminded of chores needing attention, but also back to their awkward attempts to show affection, their shyness at talking over a particular problem, their triumphant happiness when their teams won, and their quiet attempts to take losing like the men their father was molding them to be. How much would they have changed now? But she would be with her mother and father again, to discuss, to help, and to learn. Oh, Mother, she thought, you have to make it, for all of us. They had anticipated a rather long wait at Dr. Mayhew's office, knowing how busy the famous surgeon must be. However, Mrs. Miles was led directly into the examination room by the friendly, smiling nurse. For Jennifer, Charles, and Bea, the wait seemed endless. "I'm sure he is giving her a very thorough examination," Bea reassured them, as she caught them both glancing at their watches periodically. "The time certainly drags," Jennifer complained. She picked up a magazine and began thumbing through it, but her mind was in the examination room with her mother. Suppose the surgeon felt that the surgery was just too great a risk. Must they face the fact that she would die slowly before their eyes? She forced the thought from her mind. The family had left the matter in the hands of their Father in heaven. Finally, the nurse returned and asked them if they would please come into the doctor's con- ference room. Bea hesitated and Charles said, "Please, come along." They seated themselves comfortably, eagerly anticipating, yet dreading the appearance of the doctor. The nurse brought Mrs. Miles in first, and she sat down between Charles and Jennifer. Her eyes were bright and she smiled reassuringly. Finally Dr. Mayhew, accompanied by Bishop Hopper, came in. Jennifer was once again impressed by the bearing of the surgeon. He was_ considerably younger than she had expected him to be, only about forty-five. She thought that Jim Long would be this kind of person, famous and successful at a relatively young age. The doctor's dark hair was graying slightly at the temples, and he had an air of calm, poised self-assurance. He was tall, and would, by most standards, be considered distinguished, even handsome. When he spoke, his voice held a kind of quiet authority, coupled with a "you can have absolute faith in me," tone. He was friendly, but came right to the point. "Much of what I am going to tell you, you probably already know. The patient's heart has been severely damaged by rheumatic fever during childhood. There is a great deal of scar tissue, but the most pressing problem is a badly damaged mitro valve. Now what we plan to do is remove this valve and replace it with an artificial one. It is a delicate operation, generally successful though." Welcome the Task Before they could relax too much, he went on. "However, the patient's liver and lungs are in extremely poor condition, which, of course, increases the risk a great deal. We want to put her directly into the hospital if she decides to have the surgery, and run more extensive tests. As things look right now, her chances are about forty-sixty." They looked at one another without speaking. Jennifer's heart pounded. Forty-sixty sounded frightening. She had_ thought that fifty-fifty would be bad enough. Finally the surgeon spoke again. "I am willing to perform the surgery, and [ think it will be successful, but it's a decision that only you folks can make." Bishop Hopper said, "We can give you three days, in which to make the decision. We know how difficult it is. But within three days you would have to enter the hospital for tests, or we couldn't meet the surgery time we have open." Mrs. Miles spoke up quietly. "No, we will not need the three days. We knew there was a risk when we came. We had already decided that if Dr. Mayhew was willing to perform the surgery, I was willing to risk it. Now, when do I enter the hospital?" Her voice held that no nonsense authority that she was forced to use on her sons so often. Bishop Hopper smiled confidently. "We'll have you come in first thing in the morning." He patted her shoulder, and everyone shook hands. Dr. Mayhew informed them that she would undergo surgery a week from the day she entered the hospital. 

129 February 1969

, The day before the operation, all of Bea's family and the entire Miles family in Utah, as well as Jennifer and her father fasted. Jim accompanied Mr. Miles and Bishop Hopper to the hospital where they administered to Elizabeth. A bouquet of flowers bearing Steve's name along with that of his mother, and Jennifer's three brothers, had arrived earlier. "I'm so_ blessed," Mrs. _Miles smiled warmly at them., te As he was leaving, Jim bent down and whispered something in her ear. Jennifer curiously asked her mother what it was, later, when they were alone. "Oh, he was just reminding me what a wonderful daughter I have," she said tenderly. "He seems like a nice young man Jenny. Do you care for him deeply?" Jennifer smiled. Jim Long was quite a person, and she told her mother that she was flattered by his attentions, but no' more at. The time. "Jenny," her mother said seri- 130 ously, "if by chance the Lord wills I don't come through this, promise me you will look out for your father and the boys." Jennifer shuddered inwardly. "T promise, Mother, but you're going to be all right," she said with a great deal more confidence than she dared feel. "I hope so, Jenny, I really hope so." The day dawned dark and cold. It was late November and winter had a grim grip on_ things. Charles, Jennifer, and Bea arrived at the hospital early, so that they might see Mrs. Miles before she was placed under sedation. They were permitted to remain with her until she was rolled down the corridor into the operating room. Jennifer could barely control her shaking hands as she sat down to begin the long wait. Dr. Mayhew had estimated that the surgery would require about three hours. The waiting room was a cheerful, light, and comfortable place, but they were oblivious of these things. Jennifer fought the panic rising within her at the thought of her mother, in the operating room, fighting for her life against this condition which had plagued her for so long. Her heart seemed to be racing three times faster than was necessary to sustain her. She felt both hot and cold at the same time, as if icy blood was being pumped through a feverish body. It seemed as though she could hardly breathe. Each glance at the clock told her that only five minutes had -passed. She tried to look around at the other people waiting. Bea seemed lost in thought. She must be remembering sitting in a room such as this while surgeons fought to save John's life, Jennifer thought. Her father looked older, tired. Jennifer had realized several years ago just how much he depended on his wife. Outwardly he was a strong, confident, vibrant man, but his wife was the key to all that was strong about him. She thought about her three brothers. They were good boys, but they needed their mother's guidance and advice, for all three of them loved and respected her almost reverently. Jennifer looked around the room, feeling empathy for those who were awaiting news of a loved one. She felt sorry for the young couple who looked so forlorn, probably their young child was in surgery, she thought. Delicate in scent, bh I wish I were a flower in your garden, Or a Mozart Symphony, inspiring, Never spent, Desert sand, In your hand. You may go, I love you so.