[Vol56 | February 1969 | Page 152 | General Feature | Social Relations— Are We Preparing? >A/berta | H. Chnstensen]
[Social Relations— Are We Preparing? >A/berta H. Chnstensen]

There is much music that typifies the attribute of serenity. Out of the myriad musical selections that express this quality, the Adagio movement of the Brahms Sonata No. 2 for violin and piano was selected for two main reasons: First, chamber music was written to be played in intimate surroundings, often the home—the place where perhaps more than anywhere else we _ experience serenity. Second, Brahms was a composer who mastered the art of composition so well that his music often expresses an inner peace and serenity, feelings that came to him, no doubt, because of his faith in himself as a composer. INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON Serenity, one of our most beautiful words, describes the tranquil strength of great men and women who live by unyielding integrity. Serenity is the outward calm of an inner conscience at peace with itself. Serenity is the reward of never compromising one's principles no matter how great the temptation or how fearsome the danger. Serenity is the deep inward peace of mind that results from doing what one believes is right. Serenity is the combination of quiet courage linked with undeviating standards. The fruits of righteous living may, at times, be material but, at all times, will be spiritual. One of the greatest of these is peace of mind. The punishments for unrighteous living may, at times, be physical but, at all times, will be spiritual—the anguish of a guilty conscience, the torment of a troubled mind. Moreover, as the joy and serenity are greater for one who does right knowingly rather than accidentally or in ignorance, so the anguish and torment are greater for one who does wrong knowingly rather than accidentally or in ignorance. Serenity, then, is the ultimate earthly reward for one who lives always by high principles and who both lives and dies with a clear conscience. Unfortunately, no man or woman ever achieves complete serenity in this life because we are all imperfect. Christ alone was perfect. Even so, serenity still stands as a beautiful ideal to work towards, and one that can, in considerable measure, be reached if the total of good things in our lives heavily outweighs the total of contrary things. Edna St. Vincent Millay in her poem "Conversations at Midnight" had something like this in mind when she wrote: Conversations at Midnight There is no peace on earth today save the peace in the heart 

153 February 1969

 At home with God. From that sure habitation The heart looks forth upon the sorrows of the savage world And pities them, and ministers to them; but is not implicated. All else has failed, as it must always fail. No man can be at peace with his neighbor who is not at peace With himself; the troubled mind is a trouble maker. There is no freedom like the freedom of a man who sees his duty plain And does it without demur. Perhaps we may wish to question the meaning of "implicated"' in the fourth line and debate the accuracy of "the troubled mind is a trouble maker" in the seventh line, but the over-all message seems beautifully clear and to the point. LIFE AND WRITINGS OF ELIZA R. SNOW To illustrate serenity, there are many noble, courageous, highprincipled, faith-abiding women, both in and out of the Church, whose lives might be used. We have chosen for consideration one of our own Latter-day Saint pioneer women, probably the most poetically gifted of all the pioneer women, and one of the great women leaders of all time in the Church—Eliza R. Snow. The following information on Sister Snow is excerpted from a booklet published several years ago for the dedication of the Eliza R. Snow Hall, one of the beautiful Heritage Halls for women students at Brigham Young University. From the age of twenty-nine when Eliza Roxey Snow was baptized into the Church, until the end of her long life in 1887, this practical daughter of Puritan 154 forebears was concerned with furthering the cause of the gospel by helping members of the Church to live more abundant lives. As organizer and executive, as writer and speaker, and as the first woman schoolteacher in the Church, she devoted her unusual energy and talents to stimulating active understanding of Gospel principles. Her marked intellectual ability was early recognized by her family, and she was given the best education available in her home state of Massachusetts. It was she who was selected by the Prophet Joseph to teach his "family school"—both in Kirtland and Nauvoo. Her "select school for young ladies" in Kirtland presented an opportunity for the education of girls not generally available at that time. But Sister Snow's ideas on education were never narrowly academic. She encouraged her students to become proficient in the domestic arts and was herself a skilled needlewoman. Most of all, however, she wanted the young people of the Church to recognize the need for schooling in the Gospel. True to her trust as secretary of the first Relief Society in Nauvoo, she brought its "Book of Records" with her to Salt Lake Valley. In 1866 President Brigham Young called her to aid the bishops in organizing a Relief Society in every ward and branch of the Church. During the ensuing twenty-one years, as the General President of Relief Society, she faithfully performed this mission. Today in the Church Eliza R. Snow is probably best remembered as the author of the poem "O My Father," which preaches the uniquely Mormon doctrine that we have a Mother as well as a Father in Heaven. Composed in 1843 while she was living with the Stephen Markhams, this poem was written out on a wooden chest—the only piece of furniture resembling a table which her room afforded. Eliza R. Snow's vision of the role of women in the Church has left its imprint on all the auxiliary organizations in which women take a directing part. No. Poem which she has left us pleads so eloquently her love for the truth of the restored gospel as does her life. To the women of the Church she is a symbol of selflessness—of complete devotion to the role which the Lord assigned her.... As we study the poetry of Eliza R. Snow a century after it was written, it will probably seem somewhat old-fashioned to many readers today. The language tends to be flowery and a little stilted, and the poems lack the rich imagery and other artistic subtleties that appeal to contemporary poetic tastes. She was writing in the fashion of her day, and many of her poems were primarily sermons in verse. But this is not to say that she is not an important writer. She wrote hundreds of poems, which, considered as a group, form an impressive body of writing. The poems may be lacking in artistic sophistication, but they are rich in both human wisdom and religious faith, and through them we see the personality and character of a truly great woman—diligent, courageous, spiritual, idealistic, but also sensible, practical, realistic, forgiving, and, above all else, serene in the confidence of her faith in God. SOME GOOD THINGS We shall examine first a small poem called "Some Good Things" which expresses the serenity of her faith. Some Good Things When from injustice' bitter cup We're fore'd to drink the portion up, And wait in silence heaven's reward, "Tis good to lean upon the Lord. When haplessly we're plac'd among The venom of a lying tongue, "Tis good to feel our spirits pure And our inheritance secure. "Tis good, 'tis soothing to the mind, If friends we cherish prove unkind, And meet us with an angry mood, To know we sought to do them good. Lesson Department When pale-fac'd Envy seeks to fling Across our path its envious sting, "Tis good to know we never aim'd To gain a prize that others claim'd. When by unmerited demand We bow beneath oppression's hand, 'Tis good within ourselves to know That tides of fortune ebb and flow. When persecution aims to blind The judgment and pervert the mind, 'Tis good to know the path we've trod Is sanction'd and approv'd of God. When superstition's meagre form Goes forth and stirs the wrathful storm, *Tis good amid the blast to find A steadfast, firm, decided mind. When we are tossing to and fro Amid the varying scenes below, "Tis good to hope through Jesus' love To share his glorious rest above. "Tis good to live by every word Proceeding from the mouth of God: "Tis good His faithfulness to trust, And freely own His precepts just. THE LORD IS MY TRUST This serene faith in God which was the main source of Eliza R. Snow's unceasing strength, is further shown in several "psalms" which she wrote, including the following: The Lord Is My Trust Thou that didst create the heavens and the earth, the seas and the fountains of water, thou art my God. Thou art the same—thou changest not, therefore I will not fear; for thy word will endure, and thy promises will surely be verified. In thee have I put my trust; and I know in whom I have confided, and I shall not be confounded. Though difficulties rise before me higher than the Himmaleh mountains, I will go forward; for thou, Lord, wilt open the way before me, and make straight paths for my feet. When the billows of Change encompass me—when its surges dash furiously, 

155 February 1969

 and the foam thereof is nigh unto overwhelming, thy power will sustain me: I will smile at the rage of the tempest, and ride fearlessly and_ triumphantly across the boisterous ocean of circumstance. Thy Spirit is better than the juice of the grape, thy approbation is preferable to the smiles of earthly friends, thy favor is richer than the finest gold, and thy wisdom transcendeth all human understanding. Thy power is supreme, thy plans are founded in wisdom, thou wilt perform thy purposes and none can prevent. The principles of thy kingdom are principles of truth, and truth is everlasting as thyself, therefore thy kingdom will stand, and those that abide its laws will come up before thee to dwell in thy presence. I will adhere to thy statutes, I will abide the New and Everlasting Covenant, not counting my life dear unto me. When the clouds of uncertainty gather upon the horizon, darker than the shades of midnight, when distrust is raising its standard over the broad field of expectation, thy word will dissipate every obstruction, and the "testimony of Jesus" will light up a lamp that will guide my vision through the portals of immortality, and communicate to my understanding the glories of the Celestial kingdom. ADDITIONAL POEMS BY ELIZA R. SNOW Harmonious communication and trust-filled understanding— these meant a great deal to Eliza R. Snow. "Sweeter to me than honey in the comb is the communion of congenial minds," she wrote in a poem called "Confidence." Not very often does she speak harshly of anyone, but occasionally she lashes out against those who deceive and betray, "who pray like Abel and perform like Cain," who use "creamy words" to hide dishonesty. Note, for example, the opening lines of her poem "The Hypocrite and the Traitor." 156 The Hypocrite and the Traitor I hate hypocrisy—that velvet thing With silken lips, whence oily words flow out. *Tis like a mildew in the social cup Of lfe—'tis worse than mould—'tis poison—'tis A worm disguised, that eats asunder the Most holy cords of confidence, that bind In cordial fellowship, the hearts of men. Kind words, with falsehood in them? Yes, how strange! Designed to please—and yet, they do not please, But sting, like vipers, into friendship's core. As a final sampling of Eliza R. Snow's many poems, we turn to one in which she outlines what she feels is the proper role for a woman. Comfort, compassion, understanding, encouragement, wise counsel, faith, fortitude— these are the special gifts that a woman can bestow on those she loves: What Is, and What Is Not for Woman 'Tis not for her to plough the deep, And gather pearls from ocean's bed; Or scale the rugged mountain's steep, For laurel wreaths to deck her head. She gathers pearls of other name Than those the ocean's bosom yields— Fair laurels never known to fame, She culls from wisdom's golden fields: "Tis not for her to face the foe Amid the cannon's thund'ring blaze; Or shudder at the winds that blow Tremendous gales in torrid seas. But there are foes of other form— Of other aspect, she should quell; And whisper music to the storm, When seas of passion rudely swell. 'Tis not for her to lead the van— To be ensconced in Chair of State To legislate *twixt man and man— Nations and laws to regulate. 'Tis hers to fan the sacred fire Of manhood's true nobility— The heart of nations to inspire With patriotism and liberty. 'Tis hers, with heav'nly influence I To wield a mighty power divine— To shield the path of innocence And virtue's sacred worth define. 'Tis hers to cultivate the germs Of all the faculties for good, That constitute the Godlike forms Of perfect man and womanhood. 'Tis hers the sunbeam to sustain Amid misfortune's chilling breath— To silence grief—to solace pain— To soothe and cheer the bed of death. His pathway in the battle lies— He should not fear the raging flood: Give man the breast-plate courage plies, But give to woman, fortitude. OTHER EXAMPLES OF SERENITY In addition to this material on Eliza R. Snow, the text for this month's lesson (Out of the Best Books, Volume 4, Section 7) contains' brief — biographical sketches and excerpts from the writings and speeches of Martin Luther, Robert Emmet, Abraham Lincoln, Emile Zola, Mahatma Gandhi, Winston Churchill, and John F. Kennedy which even more dramatically illustrate that kind of serenity which derives from courageous integrity in the face of great adversity. These are dramatic moments lifted from the pages of history. All show great moral courage rooted in sincerity, honesty, integrity, and deep conviction. All portray moments in the lives of great men who had the integrity and courage to speak the convictions of their hearts no matter what the consequences. Some teachers presenting this month's lesson may wish to cover only the material on Eliza R. Snow. There is sufficient on her for a full, rich lesson. Other teachers may want to reach into the vivid, dramatic material on some of the other figures. Lesson Department MARRIAGE I feel a silken threat Each day wind 'round my existence, Not in tangles, But in patterns; Not to bind me, But to free me. I have wanted the thread-like duties Marriage has brought, Not to stop my doing, But to guide my steps, Not to prevent my youth and joy, But enrich. I have found here peace To last the eternities. So this is what heaven is all about.

Utah; Mrs. Alta Salisbury Lewis, Peoria, Illinois; Mrs. Anne Naef Merrill, Preston, Idaho; Mrs. Hattie Owens, San Diego, California; Mrs. Mary Ellen Spainhower, San Diego, California; Mrs. Edith Parker Stoddard, West Point, Utah; Mrs. Lillie Clark Walker, Providence, Utah; Mrs. Maude Bell Wells, Las Vegas, Nevada 91 = Mrs. Effie Dougal, San Diego, California; Mrs. Emma Louise Jackson Facer, Logan, Utah; Mrs. Margaret Ann Gross Fults, Altamont, Tennessee; Mrs. Ella Ette Stephenson Hill, Burley, Idaho; Mrs. Betha A. Kleinman, Mesa, Arizona; Mrs. Eliza Floral Farnsworth Lemon, Altamont, Utah; Mrs. Jennie Konstance Ericsen Nelsen, Los Angeles, California; Mrs. Effie Hunter Simpson, Salt Lake City, Utah 90 Mrs. Josie Oaks Houtz Alleman, Springville, Utah; Mrs. Nellie North Bennion, Murray, Utah; Mrs. Mary Ann Jackson Coulam, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Jane Sutherland Davidson, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Frances Hammond Hollinger, Pioche, Nevada; Mrs. Edna Jessup May Irvine, Bell, California; Mrs. Elizabeth Sylvester Jensen, Richfield, Utah; Mrs. Rosella Brown Kemerer, McKeesport, Pennsylvania; Mrs. Hulda Lundquist Nelson, Weston, Idaho; Mrs. Cornelia Peters Officer, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Annie Brenner Rogge, Safford, Arizona; Mrs. Florence Mae Dury Schmertman, Newhall, California; Mrs. Nellie Christine Ellefsen Smalley, Cascade, Idaho; Anna Eve Seegmiller Starr, St. George, Utah; Mrs. Maude Harris Strong, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Mary Crump Turner, Bluffdale, Utah 160 by Robert B. Day Here are stories of a rugged people who with courage and determination guarded a treasured faith. Read little known stories about Joseph Smfth. Follow men like Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and William Clayton on the trail to Zion and through the Utah war. Sere' ook 44 East South Temple, and Cottonwood Mall, Salt Lake City 2472 Washington Bivd., Ogden 777 So.