[Vol56 | February 1969 | Page 104 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Rannona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Rannona W. Cannon]

ALLEGIANCE is a component of loyalty. It is best defined as patriotism to one's country and homage to its flag, respect for law, and submission to authority. Support of leaders under whom one serves requires whole-hearted allegiance and willingess to follow prescribed policies and procedures. Allegiance is not a visionary concept. It is a real, constant, active support. 104 Anna B. Hart Edith S. Ethott Florence J Madsen Leone G Layton Blanche B Stoddard Aleine M Young Alberta H Christensen Mildred B Eyring Edith P Backman Winniefred S Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R Young Afton W Hunt Elsa T Peterson Fanny S Kiemitz Elizabeth B Winters Jenne R Scott Alice L Wilkinson Irene W Buehner Irene C Lloyd Hazel S Love Fawn H Sharp Celestia J Taylor Anne R Gledhill Belva 8 Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J Cannon Lila 8. Walch Lenore C Gundersen Marjorie C Pingree Darlene C Dedekind Edythe K Watson Ellen N Barnes Kathryn S Gilbert Verda F Burton Myrtle R Olson Alice C Smith Lucile P Peterson Elaine B Curtis Zelma R West Leanor J Brown Reba C Aldous Luella W Finlinson Norma B Ashton Mayola R Miltenberger Maurine M Haycock FAITHFULNESS is inherent in loyalty. A faithful person is trustworthy and dependable. Full confidence can be placed upon one who honors his calling and is de-. Voted to his work. Faithfulness has both religious and secular connotations and is expressed in adherence to ideals. UNSELFISHNESS is necessary to loyalty. One must be willing to submerge self-interest and selfaggrandizement for the good of others. In these days when great emphasis is placed on one's own betterment to the exclusion of concern for others, unselfish loyalty is a prized trait in an associate. As in all things, the Savior is the highest example. He had implicit confidence in the Father and the Father in him. Nothing could tempt him to be disloyal. "Therefore doth my Father love me,' Christ explained as he laid down his life to fulfill his mission. Having examined the nature of loyalty, it becomes apparent that the true Latter-day Saint strives to be loyal to himself, to his parents and their teachings, to his country, and to God and his Church. Loyalty is second only to love, the Prophet has said. Let loyalty be so ingrained in our characters that together the loyal followers of our Lord, true to the leaders he has placed over his Church, will present the face of strength and unity to the world. —L. W. M.

105 Diet and Heart Disease The American Heart Association Heart disease continues to reign as the nation's Number One Killer. More lives are lost to diseases of the heart and blood vessels than all other diseases combined. Research has made great strides in finding the causes and many cures. Probably the most hopeful news from research studies comes in the prevention of heart disease. What can you do to help prevent heart disease in your family? Answers from research point to certain "risk factors'' in heart disease. Among the risk factors are cigarette smoking, high blood pressure, lack of regular exercise, and regular physical check-ups with a physician; diet is one factor that needs particular attention. The woman in the home is probably the best person to encourage better eating habits in the American family. Scientific studies show that the American diet and our eating habits need some changes. The way to a man's heart is still through his stomach, but the old saying has taken on a new meaning: the food you eat can endanger your heart, or protect it. Many scientists now recommend a meal plan that is low in saturated fat and cholesterol and still provides all the essential nutrients. Your Heart Association believes that watching your diet is good preventive medicine. Contact your Heart Association for information and leaflets. Protect yourself and your family and support the fight against heart disease.