"helper" in their lives, since becoming members or just married. As one young mother

said, "It gives us everything to be better wives, mothers, and Church members." One

of the most thrilling moments of my life came when my sweet young eighteen-year-old

daughter, who is a freshman at Ricks College, said to me over the phone, "Oh; Mom,

I just love Relief Society, and the lessons are the greatest. ..." I am so thankful

that our Church colleges have Relief Society for the young sisters so that they will

have this foundation to build upon when they get married.

He/en Shav^, President, South Carolina West Stake, Charlotte, North Carolina

I will never make "Five-hour Rolls" again after finding the wonderful recipe for onehour

rolls and other breads in the August issue sent in by Mildred Lewis, Mesa,

Arizona. In the September issue I thoroughly enjoyed the article "A Little Walk Along

the Upper Provo River," by Claire Noall. I know I have walked these same paths and

beheld some of the scenes portrayed in her beautiful color transparencies. The October

issue, coming to me on a blue day, was so very welcome. I especially liked the poem,

"To Everything There Is a Season," by Alice Brady Myers.

June B. Jensen, Orem, Utah

It made me happy to see my former missionary companion's picture in the November

Magazine, page 855. Vidella Rushton Vance and I met in Omaha in 1923 and became

devoted friends, and through the years we have written letters to each other and

visited when we could. She and her husband Reed have always lived in Salt Lake City,

until their call to Australia nearly two years ago, and I have lived in Blackfoot, Idaho,

since my marriage. ... I love the Magazine and the work in Relief Society and other

organizations. Rita D. Williams, Blackfoot, Idaho

Having recently finished reading the story by Mabel Harmer, "If Spring Be Late," I

should like to say that I enjoyed it tremendously. My husband and I spent two years

(1960-62) in Great Britain, and it was so much fun reading this story, and I enjoyed

reliving so many things that she wrote about— the beautiful countryside, the rain and

fog, riding the tube in London (which we did), the different expressions of the people,

which I still love to hear, from people who are here now in our country. We learned

courtesy over there, as we have never known it. The people were so kind, even though

they were not members of our Church. Sister Harmer's story brought back many

happy memories of our mission there. Our love is still with the members in Plymouth,

England, and Newport and Swansea, Wales, where my husband was branch president,

and where we spent so many happy months. May God continue to bless the saints

throughout Great Britain, that the branches may continue to grow and prosper.

Marjorie H. Bronson, Murray, Utah

May I tell you how much I enjoyed the story "If Spring Be Late," by Mabel Harmer.

Since I love the castles and cottages of Britain so much, it really is a joy to read a

story with an English-American setting. Olga Milius, Granger, Utah

The Relief Society Magazine is sent to me each month by Mrs. Ro Day, a member of

the Mormon Church on Dover Street, Newport Beach, California. Now I am not a

member of this Church, but Mrs. Ro Day is a member and has charge of the sewing

and embroidery part. On page 662 of the September issue is a picture of Mrs. McBride.

I am the same age and do all the things that she does— also take care of my garden

and patio. Elfie A. Robsne, Newport Beach, California

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.