[Vol56 | February 1969 | Page 119 | General Feature | Made-Over Dolls Myrtle | R. Olson]
[Made-Over Dolls Myrtle R. Olson]

made. There it was in all its beauty—what mattered it if it in. No way "matched" the other colors in the room? It was so gay, so light-hearted and smelled so clean that it brightened the entire room and gave a lift to our lives. We had a little ritual for that first meal, while the oilcloth was so grand and new. We did not cover its elegance with any other tablecloth but set the dishes right on the pretty cover. The humble fare that was put on it tasted fine and I know a king couldn't have enjoyed his supper more. The slick new surface, also, made a smooth, clean, and cheerful background for our school studies. That shining oilcloth on the kitchen table meant we were ready for winter, no matter what it would bring; that the hard work of canning was over; the pig killed and put away; that there were barrels of meat, bins of vegetables and apples, sacks of flour safely hanging on racks from the cellar beams. Cans of sugar, molasses, and honey gave one a secure feeling of being prepared against the snows of winter. Twice a year we enjoyed the ceremony of a new oilcloth. In the spring, at housecleaning time, getting a new oilcloth for the kitchen table was a signal 122 A New Oilcloth that the housecleaning was done. The last rug had been beaten, the last feather bed aired, the last window washed. I think it came to mean a svmbol of accomplishment, of a goal reached, a job well done, whether spring housecleaning or fall canning. And even now as I look back. That new oilcloth is a svmbol of many good things in a way of life that has gone forever. Life was lived at a simpler level: a symbol for homes in which work. Fun, and love were shared. A svmbol for appreciation of little things, when there was less urgency to earn extra dollars. A svmbol of a life where nothing was bought until one had the money to pay for it—credit was practically an unknown word in its present meaning. Saved cash bought necessities first, luxuries when there was enough left over to pay for them. The tempo of life was slower; it was also without its tensions. It was a symbol of a home where Mother was always present. The oilcloth was a svmbol of a frugal life. Yes, as I look back, that new oilcloth epitomizes a nostalgic past, a svmbol of a vesterday of values of integrity and wholesomeness. Each of us has his own private symbol of the good things of those vesterdavs as a standard of comparison as we make our choices today and tomorrow.

made. I think his words were carefully chosen and deliberately spoken. I am further persuaded that, in addition to his witness that the Prophet had organized the Relief Society "according to the law of heaven," he had a profound understanding of the significance of what had been done. I think he rather fully realized the potentialities of this great According to the Law of Heaven organization, and that he did, in fact, rejoice in its organization according to the law of heaven. In support of this thesis, I call your attention to the fact that he had a great intellect, which through hard work and diligent study he had trained and disciplined; and that he had a profound understanding of law, particularly the: law of heaven which he equated to the law of the gospel. Concerning his mental capacity, President Brigham Young paid him this tribute: With regard to Brother John Taylor, I will say that he has one of the strongest intellects that can be found. He is a powerful man, and we may say that he is a powerful editor. But I will use a term to suit myself and say that he is one of the strongest editors that ever wrote. (The Gospel Kingdom, Introduction to Book I, Compiled by Homer Durham.) That is a great tribute from President Young. With respect to John Taylor's training and his self-disciplining, a brief résumé of his life will testify. John Taylor was born November 1, 1808, in Westmoreland, England. He was christened in the Church of England and he early exhibited religious tendencies. B. H. Roberts says in his Life of John Taylor, that he... Possessed a portion of the spinit of God.... Manifestations of its presence were frequent, not only in the expansion of his mind to understand doctrines and principles, but also in dreams and visions. "Often when alone," he writes, "and sometimes in company, I heard sweet, soft, melodious music, as if performed by angelic or supernatural beings." When but a small boy he saw, in vision, an angel in the heavens, holding a trumpet to his mouth, sounding a message to the 

85 February 1969

 nations. (Life of John Taylor, by B. H. Roberts, 1892 edition, pp. 27-28.) Believing that he found more light in Methodism, he became a Methodist. Walking to his first appointment as a local Methodist preacher, at seventeen years of age, he suddenly stopped and said to his companion, "I have a strong impression on my mind, that I have to go to America to preach the gospel!"' A SEARCH FOR SATISFACTION So strong was this impression that nine years later, when the ship on which he was traveling to Canada was so threatened in a severe storm that the captain and officers were expecting her to go down, he had no fear. The voice of the spirit was still saying within him, "You must yet go to America and preach the gospel." ([bid., page 29.) In Toronto, although successful as a Methodist preacher, he was never satisfied with the doctrines of that church. Although he was now preaching the gospel in America, he often said to his wife, "This is not the work; it is something of more importance." ([bid., page 30.) He, with several others who could find no satisfaction in the sectarian doctrines of the day, clung to the Bible, studied its teachings, and met several times a week to search the scriptures, and investigate the doctrines of the Christian religion as contained in the Bible... They agreed, in their investigation, to reject every man's opinion and work, and to search the scriptures alone, praying for the guidance of the Holy Spirit. (Ibid., page 31.) Because of their beliefs, they voluntarily forfeited their offices 86 in the Methodist Church. It was under these conditions that John Taylor was contacted by Parley P. Pratt. John Taylor had _ previously heard only evil rumors about the Mormons. He was, therefore, not very receptive at first. Finally, however, Parley P. Pratt was. Introduced to Mr. Taylor and his religious friends. They were delighted with his preaching... [which] was in strict harmony with what they themselves believed; but what he had to say about Joseph Smith and the Book of Mormon perplexed a great many, and some of their members even refused to investigate it]. John Taylor, however, was of a different mind. We are here [he said to his associates], ostensibly in search of truth. Hitherto we have fully investigated other creeds and doctrines and proved them false. Why should we fear to investigate Mormonism?... I desire to investigate his [Mr. Pratt's] doctrines and claims to authority, and shall be very glad if some of my friends will unite with me in this investigation. But if no one will unite with me, be assured I shall make the investigation alone. If I find his religion true, I shall accept it, no matter what the consequences may be; and if false, then I shall expose it. After this, John Taylor began the investigation of Mormonism in earnest and on the 9th of May 1836, himself and his wife were baptized. ([bid., pages 37- 38.) DEFENDER OF THE PROPHET Ten months later he visited Kirtland, where he was entertained in the Prophet's home. At that time apostasy was rampant in Kirtland, but John Taylor fearlessly and effectively defended the Prophet. In August of 1837, he received word from the Prophet that he would be called to fill one of the vacancies in the Quorum of the Twelve. To this office he was called and ordained by Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball, December 18, 1838. In the meantime, he had completed, with his family, a tortuous journey from Toronto to Far West, Missouri. With fortitude and courage, he endured the hardships incident to the Missouri persecutions and the expulsion of the saints from that State. Between August 1839 and July 1841, he performed a memorable mission in England. Back home, he was immediately loaded with responsibilities incident to the development of Nauvoo and the expansion of the Church. [In] February, 1842, [the month before the Relief Society was organized] he was chosen associate editor of the Times and Seasons... (Ibid., page 102.) Prominent among President Taylor's many attainments was, as already indicated, a profound understanding of law and _ its controlling function in the universe. It was, therefore, natural for him to use the word "law" in his description of the Relief Society organization. An understanding that God created and governs the universe strictly according to law was for him the beginning of all wisdom. All things are under the influence, control and government of law... The sun rises and sets regularly, the earth revolves upon its axis, and so it is with all the planetary systems.... Heavenly bodies... Are governed by a science and intelligence that is beyond the reach of men in mortality they move strictly according to certain laws by which all of them have been, are, and will be governed. And these laws are under the surveillance and control of the great LawAccording to the Law of Heaven giver, who manages, controls, and directs all these worlds... Everything in Nature is governed strictly according to immutable, eternal, unchangeable laws, practical, philosophical, and strictly scientific, if these terms are preferred; but they are, nevertheless, placed there by the AIlmighty. (The Gospel Kingdom, Homer Durham, pp. 67-68.) He recognized the laws of nature concerning which men of science and _ philosophy have learned so much—particularly in this modern time—and he respected them. ANOTHER FIELD OF LAW But he knew there was another field of law—the law of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which holds the key to a knowledge and control of all things. He had a keen appreciation of the difference between these two fields of law. There is a philosophy of the earth and a philosop