[Vol56 | February 1969 | Page 132 | General Feature | Editorial— Loyalty | Louise W. Madsen]
[Editorial— Loyalty Louise W. Madsen]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Large group photo of women in white and light colored clothing arranged in rows]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Indoor scene showing several women seated and standing in what appears to be a meeting or gathering space]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Two elderly women, one seated at what appears to be a sewing machine, another standing behind her]

Fort Worth Stake (Texas) Singing Mothers Join Large
Group for "Hemisfair Performance" August 9-10, 1968

Lucille W. Molen, President, Fort Worth Stake Relief Society, reports: "Thirty- three sisters from the Fort Worth Stake joined the large combined group of Singing Mothers who performed at the 'Hemisfair in San Antonio, Texas, in August. The sisters began rehearsing in April for this event. Margaret Porter directed the group, and they were accompanied by Joan Wooley. Director of the combined groups was Montess A. Anderegg.

The sisters expressed appreciation for this opportunity and felt that it was a worthwhile and inspirational activity.

"Our stake was organized last September and we are working very diligently to get the Magazine in each home. We love it dearly."


Western States Mission Relief Society Presidency
Holds Conference

Left to right: Mildred Rose, Education Counselor, Western States Mission Relief Society; Edith Hall, Homemaking Counselor; Carrell Thorpe, President; Arline M. Scott, Supervisor; Janet Luke, Secretary.

Sister Scott reports: "Each year the presidency of the Western States Mission Relief Society visits each of the five districts in the mission and holds a conference on Saturday and Sunday. This year, as in previous years, instructions concerning Relief Society procedures were discussed. District fashion shows were held, and many items which could be used for bazaars were demonstrated.

"A Singing Mothers chorus from each district sang at the conferences, and reviews of the past year's work were given by the officers of the district boards.

"We feel that these conferences benefit Relief Society in the mission very much, and we enjoyed them also."


Italian Mission Holds First Relief Society Conferences
May 11, 18, June 8, 1968

Members of the Italian Mission Relief Society Presidency, left to right: Chiara Banchetti, First Counselor; Wanda Duns, Supervisor; Marilee Swift, President; Joanne Gerstner, Second Counselor.

Sister Duns reports: "Four Relief Society conferences were held in the Italian Mission to insure that all sisters of Relief Society would be able to attend at least one session. The sessions were held in Palmero, Sicily; Milan; Pisa; and Taranto.

"President Duns and I were able to attend three of these meetings and address the sisters. Approximately twenty sisters attended each meeting.

"At each conference there was a discussion period, a luncheon prepared by the mission Relief Society presidency, addresses by the presidency, a demonstration of homemaking meeting ideas, and a bazaar featuring the lovely handwork of the Italian sisters."

[PHOTOGRAPH - Group of people in white shirts arranged in rows, appears to be a choir with pianist]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Group of women standing around a table with food and flowers, appears to be a social gathering or meeting]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Four women standing together at what appears to be a social event or meeting]

North Sevier Stake (Utah) Board Contributes To
Success of the Relief Society Program

North Sevier Stake Relief Society officers, seated, left to right: Aldena A. Thompson, Secretary-Treasurer; Arnelda M. Poulson, Second Counselor; Bernice M. Mickelsen, First Counselor; Wilma H. Sorensen, President.

Standing, left to right: Ora M. Mason, visiting teacher message leader; Thula Nielsen, homemaking leader; Leona J. Mickelsen, spiritual living class leader; LaVerde S. Gurney, Magazine representative; Melva N. Johnson, social relations class leader; Joyce Groomer, cultural refinement class leader; LaJuana Bastian, organist; Billie Lou Johnson, chorister.

Sister Sorensen reports: "These sisters have been faithful in furthering the success of Relief Society in our stake. They serve devotedly and attend the required meetings regularly. We have a lovely board room which was decorated and furnished by contributions and stake board funds. It also serves as a garment distribution center, managed by the president and assisted by other willing Relief Society workers."

South Box Elder Stake Honors All Who Have Served on the
Stake Board, August 14, 1968

Front row, third from left: Iva Lou Nebeker, President, South Box Elder Stake Relief Society; fourth: Helen Bunnell, former president.

The remaining sisters are current and past members of the stake board.

Sister Nebeker reports: "A dinner honoring all those who had served on the Relief Society stake board since 1963 when the stake was organized, was held. The occasion was to reveal a history book compiled recently.

"Included in the history book were pictures and write-ups of socials, special accomplishments, programs from conferences, and other events, and statistical data.

"We felt that getting together to see the history book would be a pleasant interlude for the sisters. One of the highlights of the book is a personal history sketch of each sister who served on the stake board. It was a most pleasant and successful evening."

New York Stake, West Point Branch Relief Society
Unique in Locale and Activities

Members of the West Point Branch Relief Society, left to right: Lola Turek; Mary Blackham; Lois Hobson, Second Counselor; Myrna Redd; Polly Jordan, First Counselor; Joyce Mumford, President; Penny Lockard; Kaye Palmer; Elaine Bons.

Ada H. Miller, President, New York Stake Relief Society, reports: "The West Point Branch Relief Society, though newly organized and consisting of only nine members, is productive and active. On May 10, 1968, they held a spring social consisting of a cruise down the Hudson River.

"Their unique location affords them interesting fund-raising possibilities. The corsages worn by the sisters are colorful chrysanthemums which are in great demand during the football season when the Army team meets its opponents. The wall hangings are actual miniature reproductions of the uniforms worn by cadets at the United States Military Academy.

"We are inspired by the devoted manner in which these sisters carry out the functions of Relief Society."
