[Vol56 | February 1969 | Page 103 | General Feature | From 'Near and Far | ]
d wife and mother. Jane Elligett, wife, mother, homemaker, graduate of Bryn Mawr College of Mathematics, presently a professor at South Florida Learning Center, is well-known as an executive and director of several public opinion surveys in the United States. She is also vicepresident of the Alfred Politz Research Foundation and has written a much discussed and useful book, ''Mathematics for the Disadvantaged."' M

irla Greenwood Thayne, Provo, Utah, is author of The Little Things—Poems, Stories, and Articles (Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City). Mrs. Thayne is a poet, lyricist, and musician. Her work is nationally known. Her talents have been put to use for family and friends. Jessamyn West, the talented Quaker writer who gave us The Friendly Persuasion, has returned to its delightful and admirable Birdwell family for her new novelette Underground, a humorous, dramatic, serious tale drawn from Civil War history. (Harcourt, Brace and World.) Marilyn Mercer, journalist, writes that today women constitute one-third of the American labor force. Only seven per cent of American doctors are women, however, and only ten per cent of women college teachers are full professors. Mrs. O. A. Beech is chairman of the Board, Beech Aircraft Corporation, and Mrs.. Cecilia Kline of Arizona is president of Kline Incorporated, advertising and public relations agency. Mrs. Kline has recently been honored with an appointment as a member of the Board of Directors of the National Society of Arts and Letters. 103 EDITORIAL Loyalty g 'Loyalty is one of the noblest attributes of the soul.'' (President David O. McKay.) Loyalty is a most desirable virtue, praised by poets, philosophers, and men of religion; honored by the great and the humble; sought by leaders of nations, churches, and other organizations; achieved by the unselfish and truly loving. Several important traits are encompassed in loyalty. FIDELITY is a facet of loyalty. It implies strict adherence to obligations and duties as well as respect for leaders, peers, and oneself. Fidelity is the virtue which leads one to remember and to keep vows, to be true to God, to fellow men, and to the teachings of parents. Wisdom dictates that one be true to himself in order to build a worthy life. Fidelity describes the true relationship of marriage partners.