[Vol56 | February 1969 | Page 122 | General Feature | Recipes From Italy | Carol Berrey]
Carol Berrey @ Here are some delicious recipes that are favorites with the members in the Rome Branch. I am sure they will please those who like, or would like, to try authentic Italian food. The first recipe I obtained from a charming restaurant in a small village outside of Rome. BISTECCA ALLA PIZZIOLA (Steak cooked in a delicious tomato sauce) 4 thin steaks 4 green olives (pitted) 4 slices of American cheese oregano or substitute oil, as desired Brown steaks in an oiled frying pan. Cover each steak with a slice of cheese and decorate with slices of olive. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and oregano. Cook on low heat until the meat is done and the cheese melts. For an elegant dinner, roll the meat and cheese, with the olives and seasoning inside. Secure the rolls with toothpicks. Place in the pan with a little oil and one can of tomatoes (about 6 oz.) cut into small pieces. Add salt, pepper, onion, and a little garlic. Cook until the meat is done and the sauce is thickened. RISO AL LATTE (Rice cooked in milk) 2 c. Rice 2 tbsp. Butter (more or less, as desired) 1 quart milk, approximately salt 2 tbsp. Sugar Cook the rice for 8-10 minutes; remove from the stove, and rinse. Add about 7%; of the milk. Cook, adding milk as is needed, until the rice is done. Add the sugar, butter, and salt. Serve piping hot. 120 Recipes From Italy LASAGNA AL FORNO (Baked lasagna) Meat Sauce 4 tbsp. Olive oil parsley, as desired 1 lb. Ground beef basil, as desired 3 tbsp. Each, chopped carrot, 1 can tomatoes (1 lb) celery, and onion Put olive oil, beef, vegetables, and spices into a frying pan and cook until the onion is golden. Add the tomatoes (cut into small pieces) with all the juice in the can. Add salt and pepper to taste. Boil slowly for 2 hours. White Sauce 1 qt. Milk 2 tbsp. Flour ¥, c. Butter or other shortening. 1 tsp. Salt Heat the milk. Add butter, flour, and salt. Bring to a boil, stirring constantly. Lasagna Noodles 2 gallons of water 1 package lasagna noodles 1 tsp. Salt. (16 02.) In a large pan, bring the water to a boil. Add salt. When the water boils again, add the lasagna, a piece at a time. Cook for about 20 minutes. Then drain the lasagna and spread them on a white cloth. In a large rectangular pan, put a layer of the tomato and beef mixture, then a layer of lasagna, and cover with three tablespoons of white sauce. Sprinkle with a little cheese. Continue this layering until the pan is filled, finishing with the white sauce. Put into a hot oven (400°) and cook until the top forms a golden crust. Serves four. Tonight the rounding moon Reached its zenith and cast a glow Of almost noon Upon the mounded silent snow. Diamonds, pearls, and amethyst Spread a calm quiescent braise On pyracantha's tented head Where cedar waxwings kept their tryst Just yesterday. A soft gray haze Shaded the lowly violet bed Where I knelt in gathering gloom For flowers which now perfume this room.