[Vol56 | October 1969 | Page 748 | Special Feature | Song Contest Announcement 1969 | ]
[Song Contest Announcement 1969]

See eae owe © oes ae See ss Se Oot Cee eae wd vot relays "ee SELLE ESTES Do a a eee *. I ae ee I $96 OLN Oa eee General Board Members Released ie prs SS Pecriitiietiiicerrr2 icy The General Board of Relief Society announces as of July 18, 1969, the release of ten General Board members who have given valued service to the organization from twenty-nine to five years. Anna B. Hart was called to the General Board in 1940. In her twenty-nine years of service she has endeared herself to sisters throughout the world. Her extensive educational training has resulted in great benefits to Relief Society. Edith S. Elliot has served on the General Board since 1940, during which time she has rendered untiring service for the well-being of Relief Society members. Her sunny disposition and happy approach to her tasks influenced those with whom she has come in contact. Florence J. Madsen came to the General Board in 1941. During her long years of service to Relief Society she has aided the music program in taking giant steps toward becoming the meaningful program it is today. Sister Madsen's musical compositions and her skill in working toward the development of the Singing Mothers program will live forever. I Blanche B. Stoddard was appointed to the General Board in 1945, and has rendered outstanding service in aiding Relief Societies throughout the world in following the prescribed policies and practices of Relief Society. Her charming sense of humor has enabled her to achieve a rare rapport with those whom she has served in her twenty-four years of service. Edith P. Backman became a member of the General Board in 1953. Throughout her sixteen years of service she has given unselfish and valuable service in the field of educational programs. Her work in regional conferences has brought many commendations to the General Board. Elna P. Haymond was called to the General Board in 1953. Her service has been characterized by excellent preparation for the many tasks she was called upon to perform. Her dependability has caused her to be called upon for many services. Afton W.