[Vol56 | October 1969 | Page 758 | General Feature | Black Walnut Gathering Pauline | J. Jensen]
Black I Walnut "=o Gathering, Pauline L. Jensen @ In my childhood, October meant more than blue skies, glorious sunsets and crisp nights when we pulled the wool comforters to our chins and snuggled in dreamy content beneath them. It meant more than the red of sumac and maple leaves; more than the final fling of beauty from the chrysanthemum bushes before winter descended and gently cradled them in sleep. October, in Nebraska, was black walnut gathering time. There, in my early years, black walnuts grew in abundance in the woods of every farm. Tall and straight, the trees stretched along the banks of the turbulent Missouri River. In rows, they formed a windbreak on the side-roads, having been planted, in many instances, by the first settlers of the region. An abundance of trees did not always insure us of an ample supply of the delicious nuts that added a touch of luxury to our simple fare. After the first frost, people came in droves to retrieve each nut that fell along the highways or on the river banks. In the farm woodlands, the squirrels hoarded great stores of them against the long winter months ahead. But farmers were kind, generous people, willing to share their bounty with neighbors and friends, or even strangers. We were fortunate, in that we had relatives living in the country. Invariably, in early October after the first frost, we set aside a day as "Black Walnut Day." The entire clan then gathered at the home of one of the farming members of the group. I remember with what joyous anticipation we looked forward to these affairs. The winey odor of fallen apples met us as we stepped from the car. Chickens preened their feathers in sheltered spots beside the house, and cats squatted in the sun, their eyes glinting in their solemn faces. In the fields, corn shocks stood in wigwam fashion, reminding us that in the not too distant past, true wigwams had stood upon that very soil. The feel and scent that belongs only to October filled the air. This was the typical "Black Walnut" day of my younger ~ years. I recall with nostalgic longing the appetizing fragrance of roasting pork, baking chickens, spicy pies, and hot rolls that we encountered as we opened the door. Because most of my ancestors were of Pennsylvania Dutch extraction, the food conformed to that mode of cooking. And where could one find better? More than the traditional "seven sweets" and "seven sours" graced the enlarged tables. Wee 756 Black Walnut Gathering Black walnuts had been used in every possible way: in the apple salad with its homemade sweet dressing; in the plain and chocolate cakes and cookies. Broken nutmeats spilled from the white and dark icings and topped the pumpkin pies. After all were satiated with rich food, the men assembled walnut harvesting gear—pails and gunny sacks. The older women stayed behind to do the dishes and straighten up the kitchen and dining room, and get caught up on news and recipes. The children dashed ahead, dogs barking and darting between them. When they reached the grove, they vied with each other in finding the biggest nuts, and filling pails. In no time, it seemed, sacks were full and stood in neat rows, waiting to be tied and loaded into the waiting wagon. This done, the children clambered aboard, and with much shouting, urged the horses homeward. The older members of the party walked slowly toward the house savoring the beauty of the day, the fresh air and exercise. Back in the farmyard, the children drank long draughts of cold well water, and washed the grime, but not the stain, from their hands. This would remain for weeks. It would be the identifying mark that led one schoolmate to extend his hands to another, and say, "You've been walnut hunting, too." While the men reloaded the pungent nuts in the various cars, the women scurried about, putting the leftovers from dinner on the table, where each could help himself. As the signs of evening approached, everyone made ready to leave in order to get home by dark. In the corral, cows lowed, horses neighed, and calves bawled for food. Although the red sunset of the "sailor's delight" emblazoned the sky, one could faintly see the outline of the moon. The scarlet leaf of a maple drifted by. Goodbyes were called, the cars started, and people settled back against the hard cushions. Truly, this black walnut gathering had been one to remember! AUTUMN Autumn has not come for me, Until I see a chestnut tree In all its golden majesty, On some October day. As sunshine's penetrating beams Reach into branches, nature seems Triumphant in the color schemes That glitter, dance, and play. Brilliant hues of gold are fired, -8=% And tones of bronze and brown acquired, As amber, saffron, leaves are pyred In breathtaking array. Of all the season's rare delights, This scene most pleases and excites, te WA o' And lifts my soul to unknown heights,. He On some October day.