What a thrill it was to see my story "Missionaries to Dinner," in the July Magazine,

and special thanks to Mary Scopes for her appropriate illustrations. I have read and

enjoyed the Magazine for nearly seventeen years and am truly grateful for the literary

contests that give the sisters an opportunity to develop their writing ability.

Joan N, M\\rmn, Huntington Beach, California

I wish to express my appreciation for such a fine Magazine. All of us sisters in the

Servicemen's Branch in Giessen find the messages enjoyable to read. The Magazine

helps to keep us from getting lonely and depressed.

Virlee Baker, Butzbacli, West Germany

The article "Keys to Child Guidance" in the July Magazine seems so helpful to wives

and mothers and I would like to see other similar articles.

Beverly Robinson, Soda Springs, Idaho

I thank you very much for the Magazines. There are many good things to learn from

them. They are a part of our living. Harriet Fish, Portland, Oregon

Hare in Scotland we enjoy the Magazine— all the lovely stories, poems, pictures, lessons,

and particularly the editorials. Many times I find that the editorials seem to be written

especially for me. I have had the privilege of going to the temple and being sealed

to my husband, having also done some work for my kindred dead. Now it is up to

me to build for a better and sweeter life. I enjoy my work as Relief Society secretarytreasurer

and am also working in Primary.

Mary Graham, Overton Mains, Kirkcaldy, Fife, Scotland

I take this opportunity to express my enjoyment of The Relief Society Magazine.

The subscription was a gift from my mother and I really needed the uplifting stories

and spiritual lessons. It is a perfect gift. JoAnn Meadows, San Antonio, Puerto Rico

What a wonderful Magazine! When it arrives my wife gets nothing done until she

has gone through it. Also, I enjoy the Magazine very much. I have other reading

material but would rather read the Magazine. Paul L. Hardy, Provo, Utah

I would like to thank you for publishing such a wonderful Magazine, but more especially

wI ant to thank the Logan Square Relief Society in Chicago for sending me this

great Magazine. I am a missionary in the extreme northern outpost of the Western

Canadian Mission. Every time I receive a new issue I read it from cover to cover before

I lend it to our investigators. I am thrilled with the wonderful stories in the Magazine,

and our investigators enjoy them also. Elder Bob Miller, High Level, Alberta, Canada

hunger and thirst for the spiritual food that comes to us each month in the Magazine.

It is truly a feast for us, and we thank you from the bottom of our hearts for the care

and the love that you put into this beautiful Magazine. Though English is our mother

tongue, we teach the lessons in Spanish and appreciate both issues so much. It

would be almost impossible to have our Relief Society functioning here without both

copies. Helen Q. Milligan, President of Relief Society

Colomho-Venezolana Mission, Merida, Venezuela

It is a blessing for me to have the Magazine, for usually I am a long way from our

home ward. We move so often— so I especially enjoy the Magazine and all the Relief

Society organizations I visit, for I never feel alone or as a stranger.

Leah Hancock Standiford, Taylor, Arizona

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only, The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.