[Vol56 | October 1969 | Page 739 | Special Feature | New Members Appointed to the General Board of | Relief Society]
Name of Contest This contest is to be known as THE RELIEF SOCIETY SONG CONTEST. Dates This year's contest (1969-70) opens with this announcement and closes March 1, 1970. All entries must be postmarked before midnight, March 1, 1970. Prizes Prizes will be awarded as follows: First Prize $100 Second Prize $ 75 If two individuals collaborate on the words and the music, the prize will be awarded as follows: Sixty per cent to the composer and forty per cent to the author. Decision of the judges will be final. Winners will be notified by the General Board and public announcement of the awards will be made in the June 1970, issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The General Board reserves the right to withhold the awarding of prizes if no compositions of sufficient merit are submitted. Rules 1. The contest will be open to all Latter-day Saint women, except members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Each contestant may submit one composition only. Duplicate copies of all submissions should be retained by the contestants to insure against loss. 3. The composition is to be submitted in a sealed envelope. No explanatory or pictorial supplementary material should accompany the composition and the sheet(s) upon which the song is written should have no identifying marks or signature upon it (them). Address to: SONG CONTEST Relief Society.

[New Members Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society]

Building 76 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 

739 October 1969

 4. It will not be possible for the General Board to correspond with the contestants regarding individual works. 5. No nom de plumes are to be used. 6. A signed statement is to accompany the "work"' certifying: a. The composer is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The composition is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or another person with view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 7. Contestants should submit a biography of 150 words, or less, giving essential data regarding themselves and citizenship (for copyright purposes). 8. The music should be unpublished. The Relief Society reserves the right to publish the same and assign the copyright to a publisher on a royalty basis. The royalty will be divided on a fifty-fifty basis between the composer and the Relief Society for two years after publication. Thereafter, the Relief Society will waive its royalty and the fifty per cent royalty shall accrue to the composer. Such royalty shall be ten per cent of the marked selling price. If an author collaborates with a composer a division of the royalties will be made agreeable to both of them. 9. The songs most preferred will express spiritual values. The texts need not be original but must not be subject to copyright. Texts most preferred will sing with natural flow—with a happy placement of vowels for ease of delivery. Tricky effects should be avoided. 10. Manuscripts should be written in ink. Manuscript paper may vary to suit the composer. Generally the size to be preferred is octavo or 9" by 12". 11. Music is to be submitted in clearly written manuscript, in SSA (first soprano, second soprano, and alto) setting. Occasional two or four parts may be used for special effects, as may unison. The accompaniment should be suitable for piano or organ. Each of three parts should be written on separate staves as is generally the case in octavo publication. The writing style and complexity should approximate the type of selections that have been sung by the Singing Mothers at Relief Society General Conferences. Highly contrapuntal and dissonant musical settings are generally too difficult and, except for special effects and contrast, should be avoided. Eloquent phrasing will be considered highly desirable. 12. The recommended performance length is approximately three to five minutes. 13. The winning works will be published and programmed for performance by Singing Mothers choruses. 14. The winning of one Relief Society Song Contest in no way prohibits the contestant from entering and winning another contest in another year, but a contestant who received first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is eligible to enter the contest again. Ao F Judges All manuscripts will be reviewed by a competant team of judges composed as follows: A representative of the publishing business, a member of the Relief Society General Board Music Committee, two competent directors of choruses, and a recognized composer. 740 Lael J. Littke @ Mama said I shouldn't really count too strongly on being the fairy princess in our fourth grade spring operetta, but I knew I would get the part. After all, hadn't I prayed for it with all the faith in my nine-year-old heart?

Just because I had straight brown hair and freckles wasn't any reason why I couldn't be the princess, was it? Mama didn't say anything about the Straight hair and freckles, of course, but she did remind me gently that there were eleven other girls in my class who would like to be the princess, but I knew they all expected Lauramae Van Skiver to get the part. Ever since we had all been in the first grade, she had always been the princess. Lauramae didn't know how to spell Mississippi, but no one cared, least of all ye J 4 <4 '» A * i y. ESi ( I Lauramae. She had fat blond Sausage curls and blue eyes shaded by long, curly black I lashes. She giggled a lot, but she took dancing lessons and could sing like an angel. It would take practically a miracle for me to get the part when Lauramae was around, but miracles had happened before, hadn't they? My Sunday School teacher said they had when a person's faith was strong enough. The fairy princess got to wear a crown anda white costume with a fluffy skirt all spangled with sequins. She was to carry a glittering wand which, when she waved it, would bring all the flowers to life. Playing that part seemed to me to be the most beautiful thing that could happen in a young girl's life, especially one who had read every book of 

741 October 1969

 fairy tales in the school library. For months I had worked to get the best grades in our class hoping that Miss Ellerbee would take that into consideration when she assigned the parts. And then, of course, there was the praying. Heavenly Father couldn't possibly ignore a small person who had such a big want that for weeks she had washed dishes and done her piano practicing without being prompted, and who didn't hit her brother even when he took her doll buggy and used it to mix mud in for a fort he was building. _ On the day Miss Ellerbee assigned the parts I sat with my eyes closed and my _ hands clasped, knowing she would say, "Jenny Bennett will be our princess," and then I would give the little squeal of surprise I had been practicing. But what Miss Ellerbee said was "The part of the fairy princess will be played by Lauramae Van Skiver." Lauramae didn't even scream with pleasure as any other girl in the class would have done. She had known all along she would be the fairy princess. The squeal I had prepared died in my throat and almost choked me. I wished that it had. What good was it living in a world where people who didn't even care got the best things and where your most fervent prayers went unanswered? I felt betrayed. Next time I went to Sunday School, I thought, I would tell my teacher a thing or two. No, on second thought I wouldn't, because I wasn't going to go any more. Feeling dismally wicked, I half listened as Miss Ellerbee 742 went on to read the rest of the parts. "Daffodil will be played by Ruby Raymond." I waited, not eagerly any more but still with a little curiosity for my name to be called. After all, the flowers had pretty costumes, too, although not as_ beautiful as the fairy princess. It would be nice to be the rose. "Rose," said Miss Ellerbee, "will be played by Merna Bell. Freddy Hopkins will play the part of Spider." She went on down through the list of flowers, bugs, and birds until she came to the last part. "The part of Toad will be played by Jenny Bennett." I hadn't even thought about being the toad. It was beyond consideration. I hardly heard what else Miss Ellerbee said—something about the toad being just about the most important part in the play since it was the toad who hopped around protecting the lovely flowers from the bugs and birds, and it was the toad to whom the fairy princess said at the end, "Despite your homely appearance, oh, Toad, you have a truly beautiful spirit." I didn't care what Miss Ellerbee said. If you were a toad, who would notice how beautiful your spirit was? On the school bus going home Lauramae Van Skiver sat. By me. "I wish I could be a toad sometime," she said. I knew she was just being nice. Lauramae was always nice. That's why everyone liked her. I didn't like her. I didn't like her at all, with her fat curls and long lashes and nice ways. "You'd make a terrible toad," I said. "Maybe I would," she said, "but it would be fun to try. I always have to be the princess." It just wasn't fair. I wanted to cry right there on the bus, but I managed to wait until it stopped to let my two brothers and me off. Instead of going into the house, I crawled into a clump of lilac bushes and wept. I wished that a bolt of lightning would hit me, and then when I was all fixed up in a white dress in my coffin people would say, "Poor little thing. See how pretty she looks—not like a toad ° at all." I was so involved with my fantasy, which made me. Weep even harder, that I scarcely noticed Mama crawling under the lilacs beside me. "Tom told me you went in here," she said. "I thought maybe something was wrong." "Il have to be the toad," I blurted, fresh tears flooding my face. Mama patted my back and rubbed my head until I stopped bawling. "I wanted so much to be the princess," I sobbed. "And Lauramae would rather be the toad. She really would, Mama." Mama thought about it. "Maybe I could speak to Miss Ellerbee," she said. "Oh, Mama," I cried hopefully, "would you? Please would you?" "Let's think about it," Mama said. "What does the princess do?" "Well, I said, rubbing my nose with my forearm, "she sings five songs all by herself." The Princess Part "You could do that," Mama said. "I really can't sing very well," I said. "I don't know whether I'd dare even if I could." "We could take care of that," Mama said. "Maybe Lauramae could sing backstage and you could just move your mouth." "That would work fine," I agreed. "But what about the dancing? I can't dance." "You could learn some steps." "Or maybe Lauramae could be a dancing toad," I suggested. Mama nodded. "I don't see why not." "Oh, Mama," I said, "the princess gets to wear the prettiest costume you ever saw. It's all spangled and it's got a little short fluffy skirt like a ballet dancer wears." I looked down at my long thin legs with the knobby knees. Mama looked, too. "We could make the _ skirt clear to the floor," she said gently. October 1969 I had never pictured the fairy princess in a full-length dress. "That wouldn't be quite as pretty, but we could put lots of spangles on it," I said. There was. Still wrong. "Mama," I said, "what about my hair? A princess should have curls." Mama laughed. "That's no problem. We'll get you a permanent." I remembered the last time I had a permanent. My hair had stuck straight out in eight inches of frizz. I couldn't imagine a fairy princess with a head of frizz. I looked down again at my knobby knees. "Mama," I said. I cleared my throat so I wouldn't start crying again. "Mama, I wouldn't make a good fairy princess at all. I'd be a mess." Mama was loyal. "You'd be sweet," she said. I shook my head. "I'd just look silly. P11 make a better toad." Mama smiled at me. "If someone has curls and can sing, it's easy to make the audience believe you're a fairy princess," she said, "but it takes much more real effort to be a_ believable toad." I thought about that. Sudsomething denly I didn't want to cry any more. "Maybe Lauramae really meant it when she said she'd like to be the toad," I mused. Mama nodded. "Maybe," she said, "but Miss Ellerbee thought you could do it better. You know, if you learn your part well and work very hard, you can make the toad the most interesting character in the whole show." "Will you help me?" I asked, and Mama _ nodded again. I crawled out of the lilacs and stood up, raising my face to the bright afternoon sunlight. "Tl be the best toad Miss Ellerbee ever saw," I said. "She'll be glad she gave me such a good part." Mama crawled out, too, and stood beside me, smiling down at me. "I just know she will," she said. "Let's go in now and plan your costume." "Let's make it orange with green and purple spots," I said. Oh, there was so much to do. And I would have to remember when I went to Sunday School on Sunday to tell my teacher that sometimes prayers were answered in a much different way than you expected them to be. In the meantime I must practice hopping and speaking in a croaking voice. Poor Lauramae, I thought. She never gets the fun parts.