[Vol56 | October 1969 | Page 733 | Special Feature | Mayola R. Miltenberger Appointed General Secretary-Treasurer | ]
Miltenberger Appointed General reasurer The General Presidency of Relief Society is pleased to announce the appointment of Mayola Rogers Miltenberger as General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society. Sister Miltenberger has been serving as acting SecretaryTreasurer since June of 1969. Sister Miltenberger brings to this office devotion to the gospel and Relief Society in addition to her fine training and experience. She possesses grace and dignity and endears herself to those with whom she works. She is capable in meeting the requirements of any assignment given her, and finds joy in her work. Sister Miltenberger was named to the General Board in October of 1968. Prior to her appointment as acting Secretary-Treasurer she had rendered valuable service in the field of social service. She was no stranger to Relief Society at the time of her appointment to the Board, for she had served as director of the Relief Society Social Service Program for Arizona. Sister Miltenberger is the daughter of Marion and Leanora Smith Rogers. She was married in 1937 to the late Edwin John Miltenberger. Sister Miltenberger attended Brigham Young University and was graduated from the University of Arizona. She obtained her Master's degree in social work from Tulane University, where she also served as a field instructor. She is a member of the Academy of Social Workers, and a charter member of the National Association of Social Workers. Sister Miltenberger has served as a ward and branch Relief Society president, as MIA president, and as a Sunday School teacher.

732 New Members Appointed to The General Board of Relief Society Amy Young Valentine, Provo Thirteenth Ward, East Provo Stake, Utah, is a daughter of Cecile Virginia Skousen and W. Ernest Young. She was with her parents in Argentina for three years while her father was president of the mission. In 1952 her husband Lee B. Valentine was called to Argentina to be mission president. Sister Valentine served as the Relief Society supervisor. A graduate of Brigham Young University, Sister Valentine has been active in education and community affairs and has been a teacher er of music and languages. She now teaches Spanish at Brigham Young University and served as president of BYU 7th Stake Relief Society at the time of her call. Sister Valentine, now a widow, has four children: Mrs. Colin L. Corbin (Amy Lee); Robert Y. (married to Shauna Burgon); Christina Ruth, working on a Master's Degree at BYU, and Angela, a high school student. There are two grandchildren. Marian Louise Richards Boyer, Monument Park Ward, Monument Park Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, is a daughter of Ina Ashton and Elder LeGrand Richards. She is the wife of Harold R. Boyer and mother of five children: three married daughters, Mrs. O. Don Ostler (Barbara), Mrs. J. Field- _ Ing Nelson (Carolyn), Mrs. John S. McMaster (Janet); one married son, Roger (married to Sara Stohl), and Richard, who is a student at the University of Utah. There are seventeen grandchildren. She has served in all the women's auxiliaries of the Church and was Relief Society stake aa of ican Park at the time of her call to the General Board. She is skilled in homemaking arts and many crafts—knitting, sewing, candle making, home decorating, and many types of needlecraft. Sister Boyer is a hard worker and inspirational leader, well qualified for her new responsibilities. 

733 October 1969

 Marjorie Merrill Reeve, Kansas City First Ward, Kansas City Stake, Missouri, is a daughter of Idetta Ellsworth and Nathan D. Merrill. Her husband is Wayne L. Reeve. Sister Reeve is a graduate of Brigham Young University and has served in several positions of leadership in Seminary, and in the auxiliaries. Her devotion to Relief Society has made her an outstanding leader as teacher and ward president. For the last eight I years she has served as Relief Society stake president of Kan- } sasCity Stake. Shehasendeavored ™™™: —_ to teach her children the basic pribiaiplis of Latter-day Saint family living. She has encouraged her sons in their scholastic and athletic interests and her daughters in music. The Reeves have two married daughters, Mrs. David Wade (Kathryn), Mrs. Lynn Southam (Lee Ann); a son Dan on a mission in Japan; two sons, Gerry and Craig and a daughter Merrilee at home. Ada Jones Jones, ChandlerSecond 7 Ward, Mesa Stake, Arizona, is ™ a daughter of Sarah Jane Hurst = Jones and John Barker Jones. Her parents were colonizers in 9) Mexico and Virden, New Mexico. § Her husband is Archie Lavar Jones. They have six children— I two married daughters, Mrs. Norman H. Jackson (Ada Ruth) and Mrs. Charles Carpenter (Sherilyn); three sons: Keith L., D. Lynn, and Gordon W.; and a daughter Kathleen who is a student at BYU. There are four grandchildren. Sister Jones is a graduate of Gila Junior College and attended New Mexico State Teachers College. She has held teaching and executive positions in the auxiliaries. She has been a ward Relief Society president and was president of Mesa Stake Relief Society at the time of her appointment to the General Board. Devoted to her home and family, Sister Jones has encouraged her children in Church activities and educational pursuits. 734 Helen Gygi Lach, Monument Park Eleventh Ward, Monument Park Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, is a daughter of Liesetta Reidelbauch and Rudolph Gygi. Her husband is John Edward Lach. They have a son, David L. (married to Kathryn Lloyd), and two daughters, Mrs. Stephen C. Oswald (Bonnie) and Kathleen. Sister Lach has served in several capacities in the Church auxiliary organizations. She served in the ward Relief Society presidency in two different wards and has been an outstanding sewing instructor, quilting chairman, and homemaking leader. She is especially skillful in all the homemaking arts and crafts, including interior design and decorating. She has imparted her gifts and talents in sewing, needlecraft, doll making, designing gifts and articles for bazaars to many Relief Society women, who, in turn, have beautified their homes and served Relief Society. Sister Lach was a member of the Tabernacle Choir for eleven years. Orlene Jones Poulsen, Monument Park Third Ward, Monument Park West Stake, is a daughter of Louie Orlene Thomas and V. Ashton Jones, and was born in Cedar City, Utah. Her husband is George Poulsen Jr. They have four daughters, Lou Ellen and Lana Rae attending © the University of Utah, Rosalie ~ and Sharon. Sister Poulsen is a © graduate of the University of 7 Utah and has been a school- © teacher. Her Church work has © included teaching in the auxihiaries. She has been a class === leader in spiritual living, cultural refinement, and social relations, as well as serving in Relief Society while her husband was Hawaiian Mission president. She was serving as Relief Society president of Monument Park West Stake at the time of her call to the General Board. She is international president of Lamba Delta Sigma (the Church organization for women missionaries). Her special interests are her home and family, and she enjoys homemaking, sewing, reading, and music. 

735 October 1969

 Aline Rawson Pettit, Monument Park Seventh Ward, Monument Park West Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, was born in Provo, Utah, a daughter of Lydia Knudsen and William K. Rawson. Her husband is Lynn A. Pettit, and they have four children, Mrs. Ole Dunn (Kathleen), Mrs. Robert Bohn (Peggyanne), Lynn A., recently returned from the Southwest Indian Mission, and Marilyn. Sister Pettit is a graduate of the University of California, and has studied three years at the University of Utah as a graduate student. She is a professional librarian and has worked in several libraries. She is a former member of the General Board of the Primary Association, and has served as a cultural refinement class leader in two stakes and also in Libya, North Africa, for the wives of Air Force personnel at Wheelrus. Sister Pettit has been active in the field of literature, teaching adult education classes. Johna Mary de St. Jeor, Holladay Eighth Ward, Holladay Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, is a daughter of Melva Adamson and Wallace Bramwell de St. Jeor. She is a graduate of Brigham Young University and_ has studied in the graduate schools at the University of Mexico and the University of Utah. She has been stake speech director in San Bernardino Stake, attendance secretary in Mexico City Stake, and mission MIA board member in Montevideo, Uruguay. She served as Relief Society coordinator and _ interpreter in Uruguay. She has been employed as an airlines reservations agent and as a social worker. Her special interests are sewing and many different homemaking and decorating crafts. She is widely traveled and speaks and reads several languages and is interested in music and art. She has enjoyed working with the Indian people and other peoples of Mexico and South America. She is a teacher of history at the present time. 736 Beverly Jensen Pond, Monument Park Thirteenth Ward, Monument Park Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, is a daughter of Edith A. Hoagland and David Jensen. Her husband is Farrel Smith Pond, and they have five children: one married daughter, Mrs. Samuel E. Burggraaf (Farelyn), and returned missionary son Nicholas, and three other sons, Marden, Kevin, and Talmage. There are two grandchildren. Sister Pond attended the University of Utah © and graduated from the McCune ©' aa School of Music. She has ened as organist and chorister in all the ward auxiliary organizations, and has been a stake Relief Society chorister and ward president. She is a professional piano teacher and a charter member of the Utah Teachers National Association, accredited with the Music Teachers National Association. She is a devoted homemaker and extends her many gifts and talents to her family, her Church, and the community. Inez Tolman Waldron, North Logan Second Ward, East Cache Stake, Utah, was born in Murtaugh, Idaho, a daughter of Emerett Bates Tolman and J. I. Tolman. She has a teaching certificate from Utah State University. Her husband is Eldred Logan Waldron, and they have six children: John, who is completing the requirements for his Master's Degree at Utah State University; Marcia, Anita, Eileen, Charles, and Barbara. In addition to teaching and being a chorister and music director in the auxiliaries, Sister Waldron has served as Relief Society supervisor in the Hawaiian Mission and as president of Waikiki Ward Relief Society. She has been Singing Mothers director in Mount Logan Stake and director of a ward choir. Sister Waldron's special interests are her family, homemaking, music, and promoting an interest in and appreciation for the fine arts in her community and at the Utah State University. 

737 October 1969

 Anna Jean Bullock Skidmore, of the Twentieth Ward, East Cache Stake, Logan, Utah, is a daughter of Nora Poulton and James A. Bullock. She is the wife of Dr. Charles J. Skidmore. There are five children, three girls, Norma Jean, Sally, and Jill, and two boys, Chad and Jon. Sister Skidmore is a graduate of Brigham Young University and has her MFA degree in choral music from Utah State, where she is a vocal instructor part time. She also teaches private students in vocal and piano music and has presented musical Boca de Re reviews. She is a member of the Utah State University Chorale. She has been a Singing Mothers director, a ward chorister, and has served as a teacher and director of music in the auxiliaries. She finds enjoyment in cooking, sewing, and crafts and is interested, also, in community service.