WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference
held at Jensen, June 6, 1907. President
Sarah M. Colton presiding. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of sing-
ing, prayer, roll call and reading of min-
utes.
	Opening address by Sister Sarah M.
Colton, she also reported the stake as im-
proving. Reports were given from all the
wards except Mt. Dell, all are in good
condition.
	Song from Glines Relief Society by
Miss Effie Johnson and company. Essay
from Mt. Dell Relief Society written by
Mrs. Mary J. Searle and read by the
secretary Mrs. Phebe A. Merkley. Re-
citation from Jensen Relief Society by
Miss Leah Timothy.
	Bishop George Billings of Jensen spoke
of the organization of the Relief Society
and the work of the sisters, he felt to wel-
come all that had gathered together.
	Mrs. Harriett Goodrich gave a report
of the General Conference held in Salt
Lake City also of the General Relief So-
ciety Conference.
	Singing and benediction by C. F. B.
Sybert.
	Afternoon session: We continued our
services by the choir singing, and prayer
by Bro. Edward Longhurst. Singing and
other opening exercises. General and
local officers of the Relief Society were
sustained.
	A lecture on Faith from the Vernal Re-
lief Society by Mrs. Mary Gibson. An
Essay from Naples Relief Society entitled
"Influence of Woman" by Mrs. Rhoda
Goodrich. Sister Goodrich also spoke at
some length on a great many subjects.
	A song from Maeser Relief Society by
Clara C. Hacking and others.
	Mrs. Richardson related some of her
experience in the mission field in Scotland
which was very interesting.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett bore a strong
testimony, also gave some counsel in re-
gard to the plan gotten up for the Relief
Society work and of the duties of the
teachers, spoke of gathering grain for
storage.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Colton spoke of the good
the Relief Society had done in regard
to making means for the Uintah Stake
Tabernacle, she thanked the people of
Jensen for their hospitality.
	Singing, "How firm a foundation."
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Bro. Joel Bascom.
			PHEBE A. MERKLEY,
						Secretary.
		WEBER STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society of the Weber Stake of Zion
was held in the Relief Society Hall, in
Ogden, June 13, 1907, at 10 a. m. and 1:30
p. m., President Jane S. Richards presid-
ing. Counselor Emily M. Shurtliff and
representatives from nearly all of the 26
wards were in attendance. Of the breth-

[Column 2]
ren, there were Elder Franklin S. Rich-
ards of Salt Lake City, Weber Stake
President Lewis W. Shurtliff, Patriarch
David McKay, and Bishop Robert Mc-
Quarrie.
	Despite the stormy day, the hall was
nearly filled with attentive listeners and
an excellent spirit was manifest through-
out the entire conference. The hall has
been newly papered and presents a rest-
ful, neat and tasteful appearance that is
well in harmony with the hallowed influ-
ence that abides within its walls.
	President Jane S. Richards and Coun-
selor Emily M. Shurtliff each spoke words
of encouragement and advice to those
present, urging all to a faithful discharge
of their duties.
	The reports showed the society in all
the wards in good working order, though
but few have been successful in gathering
the young mothers into this grand organ-
ization. However their numbers are in-
creasing as evidenced by their presence
at the conference.
	The brethren came freighted with bless-
ings for the Relief Society workers; their
counsels were wise and fatherly and their
words of appreciation and commendation
will be a stimulus to all who were in at-
tendance. 
	Elder Franklin S. Richards spoke on
the importance of Relief Society work
and of the crowns awaiting those who
lives are spent in service for others. No
matter how small the act of kindness; no
matter how lowly our position, we are
greater than queens and our reward is
sure. Spoke of the marvelous work of
of the boy prophet—the revelations and
the grand code of laws he brought forth,
—of his magnetic power which even the
world had to acknowledge; of his success-
ors, not like Joseph, but each the right
man in the right place and at the ap-
pointed time to fulfil their special part in
this gigantic work. Referred to our beau-
tiful building and the spiritual influence
that broods within its walls, and prayed
that the same might ever abide within
us; that the Lord would pour out the
balm of His spirit upon all, even as they
had poured it upon others; that no mis-
fortune might ever come without its ac-
companying balm and blessing and that
we might all meet in the eternal worlds,
there to dwell forever.
	Stake President Lewis W. Shurtliff re-
ferred to the shortness of life and the pass-
ing away of many of our valiant ones,
and the need of the younger ones taking
hold of the work, of whom we have an
army of noble sons and daughters. It is
not so much a question of how long we
live, as of how much we accomplish.
	Patriarch David McKay spoke more
especially to the widows, giving words of
comfort and cheer and showing that their
loved ones were near and ready to aid in
time of need; also touched on work for
our dead.
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie commended
the sisters for their good works; also re-
ferred to the shortness of time and the
rapidity with which this work is being ac-
complished.
	Altogether a most enjoyable time was
had, even "a time of refreshing from the
Lord."
			NELLIE BECRAFT,
				Assistant Secretary.

[Column 3]
		POCATELLO STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Pocatello Stake was held at McCammon,
June 12th, 1907, President Maria R. Hyde
presiding.
	There were present, besides members
of the Stake Board, Counselor Ida Smoot
Dusenberry and Sister P. Y. Beatie of
the general Board, also Henry S. Wood-
land of the Stake Presidency, and several
Bishops of the Stake.
	Unfortunately there was an almost con-
tinual down-pour of rain, commencing
early in the morning, and for that rea-
son there was not so large an attendance
as was desired.
	After the usual opening exercises, Pres-
ident Maria R. Hyde welcomed the breth-
ren and sisters, expressing her regret at
the condition of the weather which had
prevented many from attending the con-
ference. Eight ward organizations were
represented out of the twelve in the stake.
	President Hyde reported the general
condition of the Society; said that we are
solving problems that older stakes have
met and solved years ago. We are now
engaged in promoting the building of
granaries—we expect to have three ward
granaries and one district granary built
this year; the sisters are doing as well as
they can under existing circumstances.
	Sister Beatie rejoiced that we are pre-
paring to build granaries. Advised the
sisters to make their homes pleasant and
prepare their children for their life's
work, also spoke of the nurse class.
	President Woodland spoke of the noble
work performed by the sisters of the Re-
lief Society. Advised the sisters to hon-
or and sustain the Priesthood.
	Sister Larsen of the Grant ward gave a
lecture on repentance. Meeting ad-
journed until 2 p. m.
	On reassembling, after opening exer-
cises, Sister Dusenberry addressed the
congregation. Spoke of the feeling of
timidity that comes over us when called
upon to speak; its value lies in the fact
that it tends to make us more humble.
Advised the mothers to be patient with
their children, sympathize with them, be
companions to them, and make home
pleasant and a desirable place for them.
Related stories illustrating these truths.
	Sister Martha Scadden of the Pocatello
ward gave a lecture from the Book of
Mormon. Song by Master Clifford Wood-
land of the Marsh Center ward.
	Counselor Matilda Smith advised the
mothers to remember and relate the
beautiful stories told by Sister Dusenber-
ry, to their children; also spoke on the
storing of wheat. Bishop Boyce spoke
on this subject, exhorting the sisters not
to neglect this great duty. Bishop Mc-
Clellan had enjoyed the instructions giv-
en. Said we should read the instructions
with our children, and learn to govern
ourselves, that we may be better able to
govern them. After singing and prayer,
the conference adjourned for six months.
	ELIZABETH PRIEST, Secretary.
		BLACKFOOT STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Blackfoot Stake was held at Blackfoot,
July 15th, 1907, President Lucy A. Steers
presiding.
	After the opening exercises, President
Lucy A. Steers expressed the pleasure


[Column 1]
it gave her to see so many present
this stormy morning. Reported the
Blackfoot Stake in good working or-
der. Spoke of the annual fund and hoped
we would all be prompt in this. Verbal
reports were given by Matilda Rupp,
Blackfoot; Lost River by Stake President
Lucy A. Steers; Riverside by Maggie
Taylor; Groveland, by Alice Yancy; Ba-
salt by Mellie D. Dye; Woodville by Mary
Cunningham; Goshen by Sophia Soren-
sen.
	Sister Mary A. C. Lambert, missionary
from the Relief Society General Board,
was very pleased to be present, but was
sorry to hear of such a lack of attendance;
said the Relief work was a noble labor,
and she enjoyed it very much. Thought
we could visit the sick to cheer and com-
fort them, as this did much good; we as
mothers should teach our children the
law of tithing also teach them to be hum-
ble and prayerful. Also spoke of our aged
President and said she had the Relief So-
ciety work at heart. Although she is not
able to travel, her thoughts are with you
all. Advised the mothers to look after
their girls and boys and teach them to be
virtuous and truthful and live pure and
holy lives.
	Song by Louisa Herbert.
	Stake President James Duckworth was
glad to meet with the sisters and felt
paid already for coming; also glad to hear
the good reports.
	Counselor John F. Shelly was very
glad to be present and partake of the
good spirit; knew that if we all did our
duty, we would be blessed in our labors.
	Counselor Juliette Blackburn was
pleased to see so many present; glad that
we had our sisters from Salt Lake with
us; knew we were blessed with the spirit
of the Lord. Spoke on Temple work.
Thought we ought to have a band of
good lively teachers to work up an inter-
est in these associations; urged all to be
more prayerful and strive to do right.
	Afternoon session of the Relief Society
Conference, President Lucy A. Steers
presiding.
	Reports were given by Lucy Christen-
sen of Moreland ward; Thomas by Ber-
tha Noach; Shelly by Elizabeth Kelly;
Kimball by Alida Robertson. The re-
ports were very good in a financial way,
but a lack of attendence was reported by
all. President Lucy A. Steers thanked
all for coming out to report their asso-
ciations.
	Sister Woodbury of the St. George
Stake was glad to be present; also glad
to think she was counted worthy of being
one of God’s children; advised the moth-
ers to teach their little children to pray
and ask the blessing on the food; “do not
let your children roam the streets.”
Spoke of how she enjoyed working in the
Temple; thought we should all spend
more of our time for the Lord as our
time is short here on earth.
	Sister Mary A. C. Lambert spoke of
the many hardships she had endured for
the Gospel’s sake, but knew the Lord will
bless us all if we seek Him in prayer. She
also earnestly spoke of the Nurses’ class
to be taught in Salt Lake this year;
thought we Latter-day Saints should have
our own nurses and doctors; we are cer-
tainly the most blessed people on the
face of the earth.
	Stake President Sarah Carruth of the
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Asso-

[Column 2]
ciation, said she was delighted to be pres-
ent; we as mothers have a great work to
perform. Relief Society workers and Mu-
tual workers should go hand in hand.
Spoke of the evils of fault-finding.
	Bishop Frank C. Parkinson felt it an
honor to stand before the sisters in this
conference; referred to his labors as a
missionary and said he had received a
great deal of help from the Relief Socie-
ty of the Blackfoot ward. Said, “Moth-
ers, remember your daughters and teach
them to live pure and virtuous lives and
marry men of our own faith.”
	President Lucy A. Steers felt we had
had a good time together, and desired to
thank our visiting sisters, and also wished
them to carry our heartfelt thanks to
Salt Lake to the General Board, for
sending us such good sisters. We as a
Stake Board very much desire to have
the hearty support of the new Stake pres-
ident. Thanked all who had taken part.
	Singing and benediction and adjourn-
ment.
			ROSALIA NIELSEN,
						Secretary.
		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Snow-
flake stake was held at Snowflake, June
16th, 1907, Sister Alice Merrill Horne of
the General Board, present.
	As conference was held on Sunday,
Bishop Hunt took charge of the open-
ing exercises and then gave the meeting
into the hands of R. S. Stake President
Mary J. R. West, who gracefully welcomed
all to conference and expressed gratitude
for the visit of Sister Horne.
	Snowflake, Taylor, Shumway, Show-
low and St. Joseph branches were re-
ported by Sisters Nellie M. Smith, Mary
A. Standifird, Dicia Denham, Lucinda
Reidhead and Nina Porter respectively.
Written reports from Woodruff and Pine-
dale were read. All were represented as
doing fairly well and pleased with the
success of the Book of Mormon lessons.
	Ethel Porter Westover read an excel-
lent paper: “Restrain the Evil Tenden-
cies of the Child-”
	Brother Ninian Miller spoke very inter-
estingly on “The Condition of Women
before the Prophet organized the Relief
Society.”
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne addressed
the meeting. Said President Bathsheba
W. Smith sent her love and greetings to
all the sisters. Spoke lovingly of her and
gave a brief sketch of her early life. She
placed great confidence in the stake and
ward presidents and desires them, to a
great extent, to work out their own ideas.
The subject of social purity among our
young people has been suggested as a sub-
ject for the missionaries to speak on.
	In the afternoon session, the meeting
was again given to the sisters after the
administration of the sacrament. The
first speaker was Counselor Emma L.
Smith, who spoke on Joseph Smith’s ef-
forts to place woman in her true position.
Her remarks were interesting and could
not fail to make the congregation think
more than once of her subject.
	Sister Mary Morgan, of the St. Johns
Stake, also addressed the conference.
Spoke of the comfort she had received
from attending Relief Society meetings,
and encouraged the sisters, old and young,
to become members.

[Column 3]
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne gave a very
beautiful address on art.
	Officers of the General and Stake Board
were sustained by vote. In addition to
the Stake Board, Marie West Riggs was
sustained as Book of Mormon instructor,
and Annie Rogers assistant secretary.
	Interspersed among the speaking was a
song by Miss Ellen Adair: “Count your
ManyBlessings” also a quartette by young
ladies under the direction of Miss Mabel
Stratton, and some sayings of Brigham
Young by Master Lyman Horne. There
was also an evening session in which Sis-
ter A. M. Horne gave a lecture on house-
keeping.
	Sister May H. Larson gave an excel-
lent address on “What the Relief Socie-
ty work has done for woman.”
	Elders James M. Flake and Alof Lar-
son of the Stake Presidency made en-
couraging remarks.
	There was an organ recital by Mrs.
Nellie Hunt, a recitation by Master La-
zelle Smith, and a quartette under the
direction of Miss Adlee Lindsay.
	There was a larger attendance than we
usually have at the Relief Society con-
ferences and a genuine good feeling
seemed to be enjoyed by all.
		DELLA F. SMITH, Secretary.


