SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		JULY, 1907


[Column 1]
THE FIRST LITERARY SOCIETY IN UTAH.
	It has generally been admitted that
New England took the lead, or perhaps
one should say Boston and its vicinity, in
progressive tendencies towards literary
attainments, and it has been stated that
woman’s clubs and literary societies orig-
inated in Boston, or in the Far East.
	In Madam Severance’s book entitled
the “Mother of Clubs,” she gives her ex-
perience and some of her ideas on the
subject, and data, etc. She says, “To
make a satisfactory record, I must begin
with the advent of the club-idea in my
own mind in the early fifties while living
in Cleveland.”
	Then she explains that fifteen years of
her early married life were spent there,
though she was born and reared in New
York. It was a frontier town then with
very few intellectual resources, though
there were schools and churches galore,
and a library association. Afterwards,
when in Boston and meeting some of the
“eminent wise men and women in the
East,” she says “I was especially attracted
by Emerson and Alcott, for whom parlor
meetings were occasionally arranged.”
She was anxious to live in Massachusetts
so as to have her sons go to Harvard, and
so she herself could meet “the wise wo-
men in literature” on some ground of “fel-
lowship and service.” Mr. Alcott informed
her, if she wanted to live in Boston for
its broader and finer atmosphere, that
would be no disappointment, but to meet
easily “the wise women” would be diffi-
cult, as they were “scattered in different
circles, churches and suburbs.”
	Another idea of such possibility as she
desired came from reading in the Eng-
lish Woman’s Journal, of the formation 
of clubs for women in England.
	Mrs. Severance cherished this hope,
this idea in her heart, it was a project
which she agitated gently during the first
three years after she had settled in Bos-
ton. She became a member of the board
of the New England Hospital for women
and children; also one of the “Sanitary
Commission,” during the civil war, and
other public measures of a similar kind.
The possibility of the club-idea evolved in
a series of parlor meetings.
	Notwithstanding the years intervening
between the thought of women coming
together in a society for intellectual pur-
suits and advancement, it was not until
March 10, 1868, that officers were elected,

[Column 2]
a constitution adopted and a systematic
society begun.
	Without going into any of the details,
which are really of very great interest,
we only desire to state that in the far
West, viz., Nauvoo, Illinois, a society for
woman’s higher education and advance-
ment had sprung up almost without effort
and was fully organized for progressive
work as early as March 17, 1842, twenty-
six years before this woman’s society in
Boston. On May 30, 1868, the first meet-
ing to introduce the New England Club
to the public was held in Chickering Hall.
At this meeting were such able friends
and advisors as Ralph Waldo Emerson,
James Freeman Clarke, Jacob Manning,
John Weiss, O. B. Frothingham, Thomas
Wentworth Higginson, Bronson Alcott,
Julia Ward Howe, and Mrs. Edna D.
Cheney.
	Without in the least disparaging any
effort put forth or any endeavor to bring
together social forces and to create a cen-
ter of valuable activity, we only desire to
show that even at an earlier period in
the very heart of the desert, here in a
country unknown, as it were, men and
women formulated a similar society to
that of which Mrs. Severance speaks with
such justifiable pride. The facts are hard-
ly known today even to our own young
people in regard to this society, of which
the writer purposes now to give a brief
statement while some of the active
members of that organization are still
living.

