WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		A FINE RECEPTION.
	On June 24th, 1907, a very pleasant re-
ception was tendered to Sister Elizabeth
W. Condie, our retiring secretary, who
has been connected with the 6th ward
Relief Society for many years, being sec-
retary for over twenty-five years in this
society. Her new home in the 4th ward
was crowded with guests all anxious to
honor Sister Condie. The Stake Coun-
selors of the Pioneer Stake Relief Socie-
ty were present; also Brothers James
Leatham and Thomas Winter, the sis-
ters and brethren numbering forty-five.
	Counselor Lucy S. Acomb, in her pleas-
ing manner, assisting to make everyone
happy. Each one had brought some
dainties to prepare for a sumptuous ban-
quet. Two large tables were spread with
dainties, including strawberries and cake of
various kinds, which all enjoyed heartily.
President Ellen R. Watson presided,
assisted by her Counselors, Alice Butter-
worth and Margaret Leatham. The sisters
sang—“We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet.” Brother Winter, in a brief
manner, expressed his pleasure in being
an invited guest and spoke of the noble
work the sisters were doing. Singing—
“Now Let us Rejoice.”
	Stake Counselor Rebecca Pettit said she
expected President Cannon here today;
something has prevented her from com-
ing. “I have enjoyed myself much, I al-
ways do when engaged in this great and
noble work. You sisters show your res-
pect and love for Sister Condie by such a
gathering here today. Your President
must be proud of you sisters, you are all
active and energetic in this work. I am
proud to be here on this occasion to honor
Sister Condie, who has been a faithful
worker in your society; she has done ex-
cellent work in your midst; you will miss
her; she is truly worthy of the honor you
have shown her today.”
	Counselor Margaret Leatham said: “I do
honor and respect Sister Condie for her
faithful labors. She has been more than
a sister. I have known her over forty
years past. She has always been willing
and at her post on every occasion when

[Column 2]
duty called her; has been faithful and true
under every trial. Her life has not been
without severe trials; she has nobly stood
the test and clung to the iron rod; never
been ashamed of the gospel nor its prin-
ciples; has always nobly defended them.
We have one of the finest societies in the
Pioneer stake”.
	Singing—“The Spirit of God.”
	Sister Mary Ann Rushton bore a faith-
ful testimony to the truth of the gospel.
Had undergone many trials; was now 84
years old. Had been in Nauvoo in all the
mobbing and persecution. Heard the
Prophet Joseph Smith speak in meeting
and prophesy many things which have
been literally fulfilled; had the pleasure of
shaking hands with the prophet. Said—
“O, how noble and grand he was; how I
rejoice when I reflect that I knew him;
yes, we loved him; his memory is dear to
us. I was in the meeting when the first
Relief Society was organized. During
the mobbing in Nauvoo my husband,
children and myself were hid in an old
wagon; nine masked men came up, de-
manding my husband, telling me they
would kill him. I replied—not, unless
you kill me first; if you come nearer we
will show you. Our faith never wavered.
God bless you all.”
	Counselor Butterworth felt that we all
came to show our respect to Sister Con-
die. The Lord has blessed her in a re-
markable manner, for she never failed us,
was humble and obedient: we feel we
lose one who was on hand when called
upon. We love and honor her and her
labors; pray she may live to enjoy her
beautiful home; that she may be blessed
in her posterity. We are proud of our
Society in the 6th ward. May the Lord
bless Sister Condie that she may be faith-
ful to the end.
	Song by Sister Bates, entitled: “Let
the Heavenly Gates ajar,” accompanied
by Sister Annie Poulton on the piano.
	Aunt Sarah Fullmer, as she is called
by those who know her, was one of the
oldest members of this society; crossed
the plains with the Pioneers; had been an
active teacher fifty-three years in this so-
ciety; was a presiding teacher twenty-five
years, and was never too feeble to act in
that capacity.
	Brother James Leatham said he felt
proud to be numbered with Relief Socie-
ty workers; he had known Sister Condie
forty-three years; had found her to be al-
ways the same true and faithful worker on
every occasion and in every capacity. She
had been a faithful worker in the Relief
society thirty-four years; taught school
and assisted to educate our young. “I was
connected somewhat with her in that ca-
pacity. Knew her to be faithful and true
in every calling, laboring for the advance-
ment of the Relief Society work. The
Lord has blessed you, sisters, in your
noble work and many aged who have
passed on to the other side have felt the
blessings of your labors. May the Lord
be with Sister Condie, that her last
days may be peace and joy and satisfac-
tion in the gospel. I pray that all may
fill the mission designed them.”
	President Ellen R. Watson presented
Sister Condie, in behalf of the sisters,
with a beautiful mahogany rocker.
	Counselor Lucy S. Acomb presented
Sister Condie with a beautiful batiste or
lap tablet with paper and envelopes, and
said that we wish you, in your leisure mo- 

[Column 3]
ments, to open this, and write us kind re-
membrances.
	Sister Condie, in replying to these
kind sentiments, said: “My dear sisters,
my heart is too full to express my feel-
ings and sentiments here today. May I al-
ways be worthy of your love and esteem.”
	The beautiful hymn, favorite with Sister
Condie, was sung: “O my Father.”
	After hand-shaking, many kind senti-
ments were expressed and all retired feel-
ing truly blest.
		Prest. ELLEN R. WATSON,
	Counselors ALICE BUTTERWORTH,
