SOUTHERN ALBERTA.
A REGION OF FAT FIELDS AND FULL GRAN-
				ARIES.
	Probably no part of the continent at the
present time is undergoing more rapid ad-
vancement and receiving greater increase
in population than is that particular part
of the vast British dominion on the north
commonly known as the Canadian North-
west. Until recently figuring merely as
territories, with the disadvantages which
such a status implies, Alberta and Sas-
katchewan have now bloomed out as fully
equipped and more widely extended
provinces, their former sister terri-
tory of Assinaboia having been wiped
off the map through the changes in their
boundaries, and her loss accruing to their
great gain. Even before these changes
had taken place, the tide of immigation
from the east and south had strongly set
in, and under prosperity’s magic touch all
industries and interests began to glow.
But during last year and this, the move-
ment toward the "newest and last West," 
and the brightening of its prospects, have
been truly marvelous, if not indeed al-
most unexampled in the record of those
mysterious and irresistible migrations
where peaceful armies of the children of
men swarm out in search of new lands in
which to make new homes.
	It is less than two decades since the
earliest of Mormon colonists crossed the 
international boundary and pitched their
tents or outspanned their teams on the
broad prairies of "Sunny Southern Al-
berta." They found a goodly land, and
they have prospered exceedingly. A doz-
en or more thrifty, well-built towns—
some of them already aspiring to the met-
ropolitan conveniences of waterworks
systems and electric lights—attest the
prudent care with which these settlers
carried with them and put into practice
the lessons learned in their Utah homes. 
In a district so vast, upon acres so mag-


[Column 1]
nificent and limitless, large farms and
ranches were naturally the fashion. But
these Utahns knew the value of the school-
house and the meetinghouse—the social
aspects of life’s stern struggle were well
remembered. Hence their compact vil-
lages clustered round the more or less
pretentious structures where the young
assemble for instruction and all for wor-
ship, and where in the long winter even-
ings the monotony of existence is relieved
by concerts, lectures, dances and amateur
or peripatetic theatricals. 
	At the time of this writing, the line of
travel between these towns, whether by
train or wagon, is flanked by miles upon
miles of waving fields of golden grain.
Far as the eye can reach across the broad
level prairie, it meets this same rich pros-
pect. Now and again at close range may
be seen a group of harvesting machines,
each drawn by four stout horses, these
reapers swinging along one behind anoth-
er in joyous procession, cutting down a
wide swath of the ripened, ruddy crop,
and tossing out a steady stream of fat,
wealth-laden sheaves.
	Perhaps a group of aborigines from the
nearby Indian agency may be seen, fol-
lowing in the wake of the harvesters,
gathering the bundles into shocks or
stooks. These natives assist greatly in
the solution of the local labor problem,
white help being wholly insufficient in
quantity where farming is done on so stu-
pendous a scale; and the gaudy raiment
of the squaws,with the flashing ornaments
affected by both sexes, together with the
adjacent cluster of picturesque tepees and
the band of diminutive and almost inevita-
bly piebald ponies, lend color and variety
to the scene. Anon the mellow hum of
the early thresher may be heard, for in
this land of sudden and severe changes of
weather, the prudent farmer loses no time
between harvest and threshing—his anx-
ieties are not over till his grain is safely
stored in his bins or received into the
capacious maw of the lofty elevators or
broad warehouses which line the railway
track. Fierce and greedy in their appe-
tite are some of these monster steam
threshers. They burn either coal or straw,
and when working in good grain are capa-
ble of “shelling out” a bushel of clean
wheat every twelve to fifteen seconds. As
sixty to seventy-five bushels make a load
for the ordinary wagon and team, it will
be realized that a considerable train of
wagons are required to haul away the
grain from the thresher to the granary or
elevator. These are met along the road
or are noticed gathered about the dusty,
whirring, busy separator; and in the near
vicinity is observed also the long, low,
canvas-covered mess-wagon, which is
trailed about from field to field, being as
indispensable a part of the caravan as the
water-wagon, the coal-wagon or even the
engine itself. A well-arranged mess-wag-
on is a model of compactness and is as
convenient as such a combined kitchen,
pantry, store room, dining room and
cook’s bed-room can be made. Its pre-

[Column 2]
siding genius is usually a buxom young
woman, frequently the foreman’s daugh-
ter; and she has as assistant a younger girl
—where possible her sister—who waits on
the table during meals, helps in the dish-
washing afterwards, and between times
furnishes company for the otherwise lone
woman with the outfit.  Cooking for a
thresher crew is no sinecure; for with
breakfast at daylight, supper at “early
candle-light,” dinner at high noon, and a
generous distribution of wide, thick wedges
of pie between regular meal times, if the
machine stops for a few minutes—for your
thresher-man eats every time he gets a
chance, and all the time has an appetite
little less ravenous than the machine he
travels with—this would seem to provide
a program sufficiently strenuous for the
most industrious and exacting devotee of
the culinary art.
	Nearer the towns are the fields devoted
to the culture of that splendid wealth
producer, the sugar beet; and here, later
in the season, will be found, not only the
Lamanites of both sexes and all ages, to-
gether with their ponies and their droves
of dogs, but the white man also and his
whole family, all engaged in plowing,
pulling, “topping” and hauling the juicy
saccharine root. The skill, precision
and rapidity with which the squaws
and children whack off the tops of the
beets with a broad villanous-looking knife,
holding the beet in one hand and wield-
ing the weapon with the other, suggest
both careful practice and native dexter-
ity, for the keen blade seems to make
its way to the hairsbreadth of the proper
place and angle of decapitation.
	Within the limits of the town or vil-
lage proper are gardens whose every
product would be a prize-winner, if shown
in almost any other clime. In the
matter of vegetables, these Canada set-
tlements can hardly be surpassed, if
indeed equalled. For size, flavor, crisp-
ness—whatever the term is that means
the best that can be grown from new,
fresh, vigorous, fertile soil—the epicure
who dotes on the succulent products
which come health-laden from the bosom
of Mother Earth must not reckon his
experience filled or his soul satisfied un-
til he has tasted the good green garden
stuff of Southern Alberta.
	Of the great stock growing industry,
the rich fat-producing grasses, the sleek,
saucy “cattle upon a thousand”—not
“hills,” but prairies (there are no hills
worth mentioning)—I have as yet said
nothing. Much also might be written
about the untold and incalculable coal
measures underlying the whole country,
and numerous other splendid resources
and industries. But the limits of this
paper have been now reached, and there
remains space but for a concluding
word.
	Allusion has been made to the prosper-
ty now smiling upon the people. But it
should be borne in mind that to this
happy condition they have come up
through a full measure of tribulation.

[Column 3]
The climate is rigorous, at times severe.
It is a region of extremes of weather. In
years of drouth—and of these there have
been quite enough—it would seem that
even a lizard or a sunflower would choke
to death. In seasons of rain it has sim-
ply poured, day after day, week after
week, until the whole country was
soaked full and the badger holes ran
water like living springs. Only last win-
ter there were several dreary weeks dur-
ing which the thermometer never regis-
tered better than ten degrees below zero,
ranging from that down to fifty below.
Then there is wind, and still more wind:
wind that brings blizzards with it, wind
that warms air and soil, and melts the
snow like magic; wind that seems to
scorch and wither with its hot breath,
wind that wafts moisture and refreshing
coolness over nature’s heated face. There
are potato bugs and cutworms, mange
and mosquitoes, and as varied and vigor-
ous a collection of noxious weeds as any
farmer would wish to see. But with all
this there is health and happiness, and
there is, and there is going to be more,
wealth. The people have passed through
their period of adversity, and their future
is radiant with promise. They have
learned by experience how to meet and
make themselves comfortable under the
conditions which exist and to which they
were aforetime unaccustomed. There is
hardly one who has not bettered his cir-
cumstances by going there—not one who
with the exercise of ordinary industry and
thrift can fail to prosper. From the
severity of their earlier struggles they
have come forth refined and improved.
The toils and hardships associated with
making a beginning, with getting a bare
living even, are now things of the past.
The comforts of life, nay the luxuries,
are now in evidence on every side. Bet-
ter cultivation has made better farms
and better crops. Machinery eases the
burden of the agriculturist. His wife and
daughters, relieved of the discourage-
ments andthe drudgery which bended
their bodies and benumbed their souls,
now find time for intellectual enjoyment
in societies for philanthropic work and
associations for mutual improvement. His
sons, though they have learned and are
not ashamed of the business of farming or
ranching, can go to college. He himself
can rest serenely in the evening of his
life, feeling that in bringing his family to
the new land he has put them in the
way of sound, healthy bodies, clear, pure
minds, the glorious independence that
comes from contact with and true affec-
tion for the soil, and the possession of a
goodly inheritance of fertile acres, a por-
tion of this footstool of our God.


