THE POLYSOPHICAL ASSOCIATION.
	Early in the settlement of Utah, even
amidst the struggle for existence, the
drift of thought of some of these remark-
able pioneer men and women tended to-
wards breadth of thought and higher in-
tellectuality. It seems to the writer at
this time that it is as striking an instance
of this nature as history records anywhere.
The endeavors of those engaged in this
literary work were to enlarge, enlighten
and cultivate the powers of the human
soul—this was the supreme idea of its
founders. When the people came, the
first thought was to make homes and
raise crops; they had brought with them
a printing press which may still be seen,
they established a newspaper, the Des-
eret News, which still retains its name.
They founded a university and they did
many wonderful things; but it is of the
association of men and women of ad-
vanced ideas that the writer desires to
tell in this desultory article.
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow saw the need
for timely action and in his own home
laid the foundation for the first high
school in Utah and from that eventually
grew the Polysophical Society or gather-
ing for social, literary and general culti-
vation of mind and manners.
	This society continued with phenome-
nal success; it numbered among its mem-
bers those, both men and women, who
had not only broad views, but education,
culture and innate refinement even
though they were pilgrims in a desert
land.
	There are poems and prose articles in
print that date as far back as 1854 and 1855,
the precise date is unfortunately not
known to the writer, but the exercises
were all of a high quality: music, recita-
tions, essays, papers on various subjects.
The meetings were exceedingly interest-

[Column 3]
ing. President Brigham Young was one
of the first supporters and patrons of this
original society, and encouraged his fami-
ly to contribute of their talents to the
success of the society, which he attended
regularly. Among those who were mem-
bers known to the writer, were Apostle
Lorenzo Snow, his sister the celebrated
poet Eliza R. Snow, Hon. Wm. Ed-
dington, Hon. Samuel W. Richards, Hon.
Claudius V. Spencer, Hon. Amasa M. Ly-
man, the renowned author, poet and edi-
tor Henry W. Naisbitt, Hugh Findley,
James McKnight, W. G. Mills, David
Candland, Charles W. Bassett, Charles
Lambert, Gilbert Clements, John B.
Kelley, Leo Hawkins, Isaac Bowman,
F. A. Mitchell, W. S. Godbe, Judge W.
W. Phelps, James McKinnon, John
Lyon, Harry Bowring, Philip Margetts
and others.
	Musical contributors: Louisa K. Spen-
cer, pianist; Sarah Kay, guitar, Helena
Richards, organ; Daniel Olson and Ja-
cob Hutchinson, violin; W. C. Dunbar,
bagpipes.
	Of gifted women who contributed es-
says and papers, songs and hymns: Eliza-
beth Ann Whitney, Margaret P. Young,
Hannah T. King, a very gifted English
woman, author and writer; and Hannah
Cornaby, also an English woman, and
another very notable writer, Margaret
Sear. There were also of celebrated wo-
men, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sarah M.
Kimball, Josephine Ursenbach, Zina D.
H. Young, Susan Dudley, Eleanor Pratt,
Presendia L. Kimball, Sarepta L. Hey-
wood. These are a few names recalled
from memory, as we have no list or re-
cord for reference.
	The following paragraph from the Bi-
ography of Lorenzo Snow, written by his
sister Eliza R. Snow, seems a fitting finale
for this article and will give our readers
an idea of the order observed and the
characteristic tone of the meetings:
	“The association met once in two
weeks in my brother’s hall, which was
decorated in a manner to correspond with
the occasion. The grand aim in getting
up the programme was to awaken an in-
terest by riveting the attention from the
opening to the close. To secure this ef-
fect the parts allotted to each were full
of point and vigor and no one was al-
lowed more than fifteen minutes. The
speeches, songs, readings, recitations, in-
strumental music, or guitar, organ, piano
and bagpipes were all precisely assigned,
and sufficient time given for preparation.
In order to preserve quietude and pro-
found silence, the one who was appointed
master of ceremonies was seated beside a
table in the center of the hall, with pen-
ciled notes on small slips of paper, in-
forming each one when the precise time
for his or her part would arrive, so the
name was not called. A small lad wear-
ing an appropriate badge moved quietly
around and presented the notes as ad-
dressed, and a light touch on a small bell
gave the signal of the moment. All were
strictly enjoined to present nothing that
would have a tendency to annoy the feel-
ings of any and nothing was permitted
bordering on low witticism or that could
offend the most refined sensibility. A
sacred, elevating, refining influence at all
times pervaded the assembly inspiring
pure and lofty sentiments.	*	*	*
The effect of these varied exercises on in-
vited guests was captivating.”


