FULFILLMENT OF PROPHECY.
	At the present time the work of the
Lord is seemingly making more rapid
progress than ever before. The call for
Elders to proclaim the Gospel in the
lands far away is greater and on every
hand one sees abundant proof that these
are the last days ushering in the fulness
of times, spoken of in the Scriptures by
the ancient prophets; and we who believe
in the restoration of the everlasting gos-
pel, through the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, cannot doubt the
fulfilment of the revelations given in this
day to the generations now upon the
earth. The daily events at home and
abroad are proof positive to every Latter-
day Saint, that it is more than ever
necessary to be on one’s guard to shun
evil and live uprightly, devoting time and
talents to the Master’s service.
	The women of Zion have every reason
to be grateful for the many blessings en-
joyed by them and the prosperous condi-
tions of the present day; the good homes
and pleasant surroundings after the toils
and struggles of past years. Few of the
younger generation know or can possibly
realize what this people have endured in
days gone by.
	The tendency of the young people
nowadays towards extravagance in dress,
and all sorts of luxuries and recreations,
is, to the serious-minded and thoughtful,
simply appalling. One cannot help re-
calling to mind the prophecies  concern-
ing the “Daughters of Zion,” with which
all students of the Bible are familiar.
Not that one would wish for a moment to
curtail real enjoyment, for youth is the
time for enjoyment; but frivolity and van-
ity and love of finery, often, one might
say almost invariably, leads the mind
astray, and frequently causes disaster
and ruin; sometimes irremediable. Those
who are aware to what these excesses
tend should not hesitate to lift a warning
voice, whether their admonitions are
heeded or not, for, if those who realize
the situation refrain from warning the
young and thoughtless of the dangerous
consequences of such a course taken in
extremes and excesses, because it seems
an unpleasant duty, it may be difficult to
justify themselves hereafter, and will not
one’s conscience itself condemn such lack
of moral courage? If anything can be done
by a united effort towards restraining the
evils that are gaining ground in the cities
of the Saints, there should be prompt
response from those who see this tenden-
cy, to any movement in this direction that
will help stem the tide. Surely the watch-
men on the towers are not asleep! The
Scripture says, Woe unto those that are at
ease in Zion. Does it not apply to the
present day most forcibly? It assuredly
does. Most of the Latter-day Saints be-
lieve the prophecies of the Prophet Isaiah
refer to the last days, and if so, they
should read the 3d chapter of Isaiah be-
ginning with the 16th verse.
	Probably most of those who rush into
these pastimes and recreations so strenu-
ously have no idea as to what it may lead;
they are innocent of evil; all the more
do they need the advice and warnings of
the mothers in Israel, whose duty it is to
correct evil, according to the instructions
given by the Prophet Joseph Smith to
the first  organization in that early day.
The Relief Society has this precedent to
follow; but as individuals we should each

[Column 2]
of us use our utmost influence against ex-
cesses of all kinds and improprieties in
personal dress and manners. We cannot
do too much in this direction if we are
actuated by pure motives and take a
broad view of the subject. In all these
matters, prayer and the Spirit of God is
essential, so that we may not be too se-
vere or overreach the mark. Wisdom
and prudence must be used in order to
know when and how to handle these mat-
ters that are of such vital importance to
the welfare and wellbeing of the youth of
Zion.
	Our people have been taught that they
should not follow after the vain and fool-
ish things of the world, but should design
their own apparel and let Babylon alone.
They have not listened to this counsel on-
ly in part. To be sure, very few of the
women of our faith have gone to extremes
in these directions, but there seems now
to be a crisis in these affairs, and who
knows to what it may lead!
	We have been warned and forewarned
of that which would befall those who are
“lovers of pleasure more than lovers of
God,’’and it is a well-known fact that those
who are partakers of things not good for
them, will be partakers also of the plagues
that follow disobedience. Therefore it
behooves the women of Zion to lift up
their voices in season (if not out of sea-
son) in warning, that the youth of Zion, of
whom we are all so justly proud, may at-
tain to that excellence in all things that
shall entitle them to the blessings and ful-
fillment of promises made to those who for
the sake of worshipping God according to
the dictates of their own consciences
came out from among those who perse-
cuted them into this then desert land
where they could be at peace.


