TENEDERLY LOVE ON.
How trustful is the heart and glad
	That loves as in its youthful days,
	Still all around the sunshine plays,
And trills the song bird never sad.
Enriched the soul by love divine,
	Though low’ring clouds may dark appear,
	Soon radiant light the way makes clear,
To those who singing upward climb.
To have, to hold, to prize, to love,
	New life imparts and youth renews;
	Cling close to those ye ne’er would lose,
And cherish them all things above.
Our friends are those we loved before,
	In other worlds, afar, unknown;
	Those mem’ries come when silent, lone,
And fill our hearts with spirit love.
Love is the chain that willing binds
	Its links of purest, brightest gold,
	Annealed, their trust to constant hold
Communion with congenial minds.
Make sacrifice before Love’s shrine,
	Burn incense there from day to day,
	And worship render while you may,
Then sacred trust shall e’er be thine.
Love maketh off’ring to its own,
	In thrilling language, soft and low,
	A stranger heart may never know,
Though softly breathed in undertone.
Love, unassuming, solace finds,
	Ne’er surfeits with expressions bold,
	Is as a rose that leaves enfold
Before ’tis kissed by soft south winds.
Then tenderly love on for aye,
	Those cherished in the years agone,
	E’en till the coming glorious dawn
Shall usher in that perfect day.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
	At this time three great meetings are
in progress. Delegates from every civil-
ized nation are in session at The Hague
for the purpose of lessening the evils and
the frequency of war, and of promoting
the use of arbitration as a means of settle-
ment of international disputes. On the
shores of the Atlantic the Jamestown Ex-
position advertises the greatest military
and naval display the world has ever seen
in time of peace. On the shores of the
Pacific, in the “City of Angels,” the as-
sociation which represents the largest
body of educators in the world has met
to discuss the latest problems of educa-
tion. Shall we plant ourselves on the
side of peace or of war? Will the advo-
cacy of peace raise a generation of weak-
lings? Has anyone ever dared to call
William Penn a weakling? He was as
brave and courageous as his father, the
admiral. As soon as the three and a half
millions of teachers in the schools of the
civilized world shall begin in earnest and
with skill to inculcate sentiments of peace
and the principles of justice and fair deal-
ing in the treatment of weaker nations
we may hope for the limitation of arma-
ments and the dawn of an era of peace
that is worthy of the disciples of the
Prince of Peace.—Woman’s Journal.


