ELECTA WOOD BULLOCK.
	Electa Wood Bullock was born July 15th, 1834,
in Florence, Huron Co., Ohio. She is the daughter
of Gideon D. and Hannah Daily Wood. Her pa-
rents joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Sain s in 1831. In 1839 Mrs. Bullock moved
with her parents to Far West, Mo., and went
through all the exciting scenes and vicissitudes of
the Saints in that country. From Far West they
removed to Adams County, Ill., in 1840, where
they resided until 1845, when they removed to
Nauvoo and in the spring of 1846 went with the
main body of the Saints to Council Bluffs. Here
the family remained until the spring of 1848 when
they undertook the long journey across the plains,
leaving the Missouri river May 16th, and arriving
in Salt Lake Sept. 24th. Mrs. Bullock resided in
Salt Lake City until 1854 and then moved to
Springville, Utah Co. During her residence in
Salt Lake City she was called by Pres. Brigham
Young to take an active part in the Drama. She
was in the cast of the first performance given in
the old Social Hall and for many years thereafter
was one who greatly assisted in promoting the in-
terest of the Drama in Utah. She possessed great
dramatic ability as many of her friends will testify.
In 1856 she was married to Isaac Bullock and has
since that time resided in Provo, where for many
years she conducted the “Bullock Hotel.” Among
those who have enjoyed the hospitality of the
“Bullock House” are numbered Congressmen,
Governors, Judges, English noblemen and states-
men and diplomats of several nations. She re-
tired from the cares and responsibilities of hotel
life in 1888, and since then has devoted her time
to the public service in numerous capacities.
	In 1890 she began to devote her energies and
ability to the promotion of the interests of Woman
Suffrage. From that time until today she has been
an earnest and consistent advocate of that great
and growing cause.
	In 1891 she was elected president of the “Woman
Suffrage Association of Utah Co.” and she has
been continued in that position to the present
time; in the same year she was elected a delegate
from Utah to the National Woman Suffrage Con-
gress held in Washington D.C. After the adjourn-
ment of that congress she visited her relatives in
Ohio, and while at Oberlin, Ohio, received word
of the sudden death of her husband, whom she
had left but a few weeks before in the best of
health.
	Upon her return home she continued with in-
creased energy if possible, to labor in the interest
of equal political rights for woman, and her in-
fluence was brought to bear upon the minds of
many who otherwise were avowed enemies to the
cause.
	In 1893 she was called by the committee in
charge of the Utah exhibit at the ChicagoWorld’s
Fair, to act as one of the five Lady managers.


She went to Chicago in May and remained at the
Utah Building continually until the close of the
Fair the last of Oct. 1893. In the discharge of her
duties at the Utah Building, she made many
friends for Utah, and succeeded in removing a
great many prejudices against this people and
false ideas concerning her people and state.
	Prior to and during the campaign for the elec-
tion of delegates to the constitutional convention,
Mrs. Bullock made a thorough personal canvass
of Utah county, visiting every prec nct in the in-
terest of securing in the proposed State Constitu-
tion a provision for equal suffrage  There was no
one influence more potent than that wielded by
her and her ardent co-laborers that brought the
result of an able delegation from the second
county in the state, unanimously in favor of an
equal suffrage plank in the constitution. In this
work she stood above party politics and advocated
her cause solely upon the principle of human
liberty, and advanced civilization.
	For many years past, Mrs. Bullock has devoted
much of her time to the Relief Society. When the
organization of the 6th ecclesiastical ward of Provo
was effected she became the President of the So-
ciety in that ward, and holds the position at the
present time. Many a sad heart has been made
glad through her kind motherly advice and care,
her influence is felt for good wherever she goes.
And now at the age of 73 she is still hale, hearty,
and active and takes great pleasure in her public
work. She takes great delight in her children,
grandchildren and great-grandchildren with whom
she is surrounded, and every one of them is a credit
to her, and the community in which they live.
								O S.


