OBITUARY.
ANN E. WEBSTER.
	We are again called to part with one of our
dearly beloved sisters in the death of Sister Ann
E. Webster, which occurred early Sunday morn-
ing, after a very short illness, indeed, we might say,
without any apparent suffering, never having
been confined to her bed, only a gradual failing of
her physical powers. In connection with her hus-
band, Brother Francis Webster, who had preceded
her to the great beyond a little over a year, their
memories will always be held in the highest es-
teem for the great and active interest they took in
the progress of this commonwealth.
	Sister Ann E. Parsons was born June 2, 1831, in
Wymondham, Norfolk, England. She became a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in 1848, was married to Francis Web-
ster in London, December 5, 1855. They sailed
from Liverpool May 25, 1856, and arrived in Salt
Lake City on the last day of November the same
year, passing through all the hardships incident
to a journey across the plains with a handcart.
Her husband had deposited money in the Emigra-
tion Fund sufficient to pay for team and outfit, but
before they started word came from the presiding
authorities advising all who thought they could
do so to come with the handcarts, and use the
means deposited to assist others to emigrate. The
money thus deposited was the means of bringing
eleven persons, themselves included, and though
many died from cold and hunger, all of the eleven
arrived in safety; indeed their number had in-
creased, for Sister Webster’s eldest child was born
a few days before arriving in Salt Lake City.
	On December 15 that same year they arrived in
Cedar City, remaining here through their lives.
Sister Webster became a member of our first or-
ganization of sisters inaugurated that year—fifty
years ago last November. For many years she
acted as secretary of the grain committee, organ-
ized for the gathering and storing of grain for
the Relief Society. In the year 1886 she was
chosen president of our Relief Society, which posi-
tion she held for twelve years. Was counselor in
the Stake Presidency of the Relief Society for sev-
eral years. Her life has been an active one, both


in public and private, enduring many hardships
incident to the building up of homes in the early
settlement of this place. She was ever willing to
assist others in time of sickness and death. Her
family of six sons and two daughters are earnest
workers in the faith their parents embraced, all
of the sons having filled honorable missions, the
youngest one leaving home for England about a
month after his father’s death.
	The Pioneer fathers and mothers of this place
are leaving us one by one, and among our Relief
Society workers their absence is noticeable and
felt. In the latter part of February Sister Mary
Wood, one of the earliest residents of Cedar City,
after a long sickness, was called home. Sister
Wood had been a member of our Society since its
first organization, assisting in every way as far as
her health would permit. She has left a numer-
ous posterity to follow her good example and em-
late her virtues. Her daughters are all active work-
ers in our Society.	J. P. MACKELPRANG,
				Cor. Sec. Relief Society.


