WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
BIOGRAPHY.
RACHEL WHIPPLE.
	Rachel Whipple was born in Draket,
Derbyshire, England, March 10, 1817.
Her parents, William and Sarah Cassel-
dine, were good, God-fearing people, but
Sister Rachel never knew the love of her
father and mother, as she was left an or-
phan when but fifteen weeks old. She
was then taken under the guardianship of
Henry and Elizabeth Godbe, who taught
her principles in her youth which helped
to build the true and noble character she
now possesses.
	On November 12, 1837, she was mar-
ried to John West. Sister Rachel had
been raised as a member of the Method-
ist church, but in the year 1848 she had
the privilege of hearing an Elder of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day

[Column 2]
Saints and in August of the same year she
along with her husband and family em-
braced the Gospel.
	Brother and Sister West were blessed
with five children, but were called to part
with one of them. On New Year’s day,
1851, they and their four children left
England for the valleys of the mountains.
Their ocean voyage was a very tedious
one, lasting ten weeks and three days.
After arriving in New Orleans Brother
and Sister West journeyed to St. Joseph.
Here the entire family was taken ill and
was not able to do anything for one an-
other. As they were among strangers,
there was not a friend to call on for aid.
For days the children lay crying for at-
tention, and the father and mother were
too ill to do anything for them. The
weather was bitter cold and they had no
fire. During these times Brother West
and three of the children were called to
the other side, leaving mother and daugh-
ter alone.
	In the spring Sister Rachel and her
daughter began their wearisome journey
across the plains with an ox and a cow
yoked together for their team. After
many hardships they arrived in Salt Lake
City on August 5, 1852, and made their
home with Brother Jesse West of the
Sixth ward.
	On the 10th of March, 1853, Sister Ra-
chel was married to Nelson Whipple and
came to reside in what was then the Nine-
teenth ward. Brother and Sister Whip-
ple were blessed with three children.
	On May 14, 1868, Eliza R. Snow and
Bishop Raleigh organized the Relief So-
ciety in the Nineteenth ward, when Sister
Whipple, who was always an energetic
worker and did all she could to assist the
poor and needy, was called to act as
First Counselor to Sister Agatha Pratt.
She labored faithfully in this position for
nine years and six months, when, owing
to the removal of Sister Pratt from the
ward, she was called to preside over the
Society.
	A few years after Sister Whipple had
been called to take charge of the Nine-
teenth ward Society the ward was di-
vided and the Twenty-second ward was
organized, which made Sister Whipple a
member of the new ward. So on the
16th of June, 1889, Sister Whipple was
made President of the new Twenty-sec-
ond ward Society, with Mary Jeremy as
her first and Maria L. Nebeker as her
second counselor. When they began their
work in the new ward they had nothing
to work with and no place in which to
hold their meetings, so they began meet-
ing in Sister Whipple’s house. At their
first business meeting, Sister Jeremy
brought needles, thread and some calico,
and the sisters spent their time in sew-
ing. From this humble beginning the
Society grew and prospered exceedingly
under the direction of Sister Whipple,
and they built a very commodious hall in
which to hold their meetings.
	On Nov. 12, 1901, Sister Mary Jeremy,
who had been a faithful worker, was re-
leased on account of illness, and Sister
Maria L. Nebeker was called to act as first
counselor and Sister Elizabeth H. Davis
as second counselor to Sister Whipple.
Soon after this, Sister Nebeker was taken
very ill, which prevented her attending
to her duties as a counselor, therefore the
work was left to Sister Whipple and Sis-
ter Davis.

[Column 3]
	For nearly thirty-sven years Sister
Whipple labored faithfully in Relief So-
ciety work, but finally, on account of her
feebleness and poor health, was com-
pelled to resign from her labors. There-
fore in June, 1904, she in connection with
Sister Nebeker was honorably released
with the love and blessings of all.
	The beloved subject of this sketch,
Sister Whipple, is still living, and al-
though she is over ninety years of age,
still she possesses her faculties of mind
and can sing the hymns of Zion with a
clear, sweet voice or converse with her
friends with a great amount of pleasure.
During her life she has shown herself to
be a true and noble woman, and it is the
desire of the sisters with whom she asso-
ciated that she may live as long as life is
desirable to her, and have the satisfac-
tion of knowing when she passes to an-
other sphere, that she has done her work
well, and has been loved by all who
knew her. When the angel of death
shall call her to the heavenly home,
may she fall asleep as a babe on its moth-
er’s breast, receive a glorious resurrec-
tion, and reign as a queen in the heavenly
kingdom forever.
			ELIZABETH H. DAVIS,
	President 22nd ward Relief Society.
			LULA WINN, Secretary.


