DURING A SESSION IN THE DIET.
	I write this during a pause in the ses-
sion. We are discussing the stamp duty,
the post statutes and the statutes on elk
hunting, but just now there is a little
pause. Yesterday six of us women pre-
sented our first petition on Married Wo-
men’s Property Right. Today we have
presented a bill on the Mother’s Right to
her Children, and a petition on the Rais-
ing of the Marriage Age. We are, as I
have mentioned before, nineteen women.
	On my right side sits Miss Hilda Kaki-
koski, a well known speaker and writer
on political questions. She is a very
good lecturer among the people on popu-
lar subjects. On my left side sits Mrs.
Hedvig Gebhard, the only woman in the
diet whose husband also is elected. He
sits in front of her. Mrs. Gebhard’s spe-
cialty is co-operation and social politics.
At her side sits Miss Ida Vemmelpuu,
teacher in a Folk school and chairman of
a Woman’s Rights Association. Lower
down sits Mrs. Lisi Kivioja, the wife of a
minister, and Mrs. Evelina Ala-Kulju,
the wife of a peasant. These all belong
as I do to the “Finnish Party.” A little
further on to the right sit Miss Hagman
and Miss Nissinen, both school principals,
Miss Hagman of a co-educational Ly-
ceum, Miss Nissinen of a preparatory
school. Both belong to the “Young
Finnish Party” and both are also writers
on social subjects. Miss Hagman also is
a pioneer in the co-education. Still more
to the right sits Miss Dagmar Neovius,
from the Swedish party, also a teacher.
To the left sits one of the social demo-
cratic women, whom I do not know yet;
they have, all of them, only worked as
agitators in their own party and are
chiefly known by that. With the excep-
tion of Mrs. Parssinen, who is a folk
school teacher, none of them are what is
called educated women. Most of them
are former servants, seamstresses or fac-
tory girls. It must be said that we wo-
men are very delicately treated. We have
a special room in pale oak and green.
Among the electors are five women, two
of them proxies.
	On the ten Parliamentary Committees
are elected fifteen women (some of them
proxies). I fear that we shall not be able
to do much in the committees because so
much of the work needs special knowl-
edge in law and in different branches of
social political subjects, which hitherto
have been little studied among women.
But our chief mission will be to take care
of women’s interests in the different ques-
tions. I sit on the Committee on Law,
the other woman member is a social
democrat—a washerwoman.
	To this committee most of the ques-
tions on reform in the laws concerning
women are sent. From this point of
view, perhaps, we women are able to do
something. But this fact—the washer-
woman on the Parliamentary Law Com-

[Column 2]
mittee—explains perhaps in some degree
to foreigners, the sort of difficulties which
arise for us women, because we have re-
ceived  parliamentary eligibility at the
same time as universal suffrage and uni-
versal eligibility were introduced. We
have also got this new right at a time
when the parties are very bitter against
each other. For both these reasons
there may rise difficulties, even disabili-
ties, which are an outcome of the facts
mentioned above, not of Women’s Suf-
frage and eligibility as such, but which
will be counted as results of both these
reforms. To explain this, an account of
the present state of the parties would be
needed, but such an explanation would take
too much of the Englishwoman’s Review
space.
	June 1. Today the “large committee”
was elected. Four women became mem-
bers.
	July 1. It is yet too early to say any-
thing about the women’s work in the
Diet. But so much can be said, that the
beginning is good, inasmuch as twenty-
seven women have been elected members
in the different committees, twelve of
them proxies. In this Diet there are the
following committees appointed: “The
great committee,”’ committees on consti-
tution, finance, bank affairs, railways,
law, economics, social and agrarian ques-
tions.  A fact which I think shows a weak
point is, that sometimes women have
been elected, not because they know any-
thing concerning the questions which the
committee will have to deal with, but just-
because they are women, or—to fill a
vacancy. This is especially the case with
some of the social democratic elections.
It is impossible that a seamstress can be
a suitable person to sit on the committee
on constitution, or a factory girl on the
finance committee, as is now the case.
And when the Diet has come to an end,
people will perhaps say, “Why, women
have shown now that it is of no use to
have them in Parliament.” But how
very different a position we should have,
if we had women lawyers on the commit-
tee on law and women bankers or promi-
nent business women on the committee
on finance.
	An encouraging point is, that the peti-
tions and bills brought in by women all,
without a single exception, dealt with
questions concerning changes in laws
about women and children, social purity,
education and other ethical questions.
Women appeared very little in purely
party questions, although they “showed
their colors” by signing petitions together
with men, and voted with their parties on
important questions. The bills brought
in asked for: (1) Raising the marriage
age from 15 to 18 years; (2) majority and
property-right for the married women.
The petitions brought in asked for: (1)
Majority and property-right for the
married women (three different peti-
tions); (2) legal right for the married wo-
man to own her children (two petitions);
(3) reforms in the legal position of chil-


dren born out of wedlock (three peti-
tions; (4) sharpening of the punishment
for offenses against girls under 17 years
of age—the age of consent is now 17, but
the punishment is too small— (four peti-
tions; (5) same right for women as for
men to serve in the Civil Service and re-
ceive other State employment (two peti-
tions; (6) reform of the girls’ household
training schools and more grants from
the State for their support; (7) midwives
to all municipal parishes (there are near-
ly one hundred without any midwife, and
the death-rate of newly born babies is
very high). Besides these bills and peti-
tions, a woman brought in a bill on such
changes in the law as would help to re-
move the disabilities concerning the bad
state and the insufficient supply of work-
ing men’s abodes. Another woman read
a petition concerning the foundation of a
national academy for our Finnish lan-
guage, literature and folk lore.
	The nine social democratic women
members brought in a petition that in
every municipal parish should be started
establishments by the State for all wo-
men who have children born out of wed-
lock, where these and their children
should be supported. As this proposition
was very vague and in many points al-
most openly advocated free love without
any limit, there arose a strong opposition
from some of us other women delegates;
so much the more, as the proposed
“homes” reminded us of the well-known
establishment of the same kind, united
in olden times with the Notre Dame Ca-
thedral in Paris, which had to be abol-
shed because of the horrid abuses to
which it led. This was the first time
there was a struggle between two differ-
ent tendencies among the women in the
Diet, but it will not be the last one. The
next battle will be on the special labor
legislation for women, and I am sorry to
say that very few among us women mem-
bers if any (besides one) will be “on the
right side.” In the next number of the
Review I shall certainly have to report
that most of us have “with flying flags
and the clang of trumpets” gone over to
the enemy; that is, have gladly made a
law which puts grown-up women in the
same category as children.
	We have a saying in our country: “They
don’t get any sense until they need it
no longer.”—Alexandra Gripenberg in
Englishwoman’s Review.


