[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Crawford]
[The Meaning of December for Latter-day Saints Vesta P. Crawford]

""Jed—please call and ask them to postpone it for just a day or two," she pleaded. "IT can't. 'The ice cream is already made. Be a good girl and maybe Pll bring you some." With that he punched her pillow and strode from the room. Maybe they'll be awed by Jed's folks and Liza will let someone else do part of the talking, thought Margaret hopefully. Maybe Jim will wear his teeth. Maybe Elle and Nina will have something else to do and stay home. Maybe—oh, it was use! She groaned and buried her face in the pillow. Nothing ever yet bothered any of the Hawkinses and nothing ever would. She heard them the moment they arrived. Liza's loud voice, friendly, brimming over with love for her fellow men—but loud just the same. Jim's muffled tones—he hadn't worn his teeth—and the two girls' giggly comments. She was grateful that she couldn't hear the details of the conversation, but one look at Jed's face, when he brought in the promised ice cream, told her that the afternoon had not been a success. When Mrs. Lansing came in later to ask what she would like for supper, Margaret replied, "Oh, just a bowl of soup, please. 'There is plenty on the supply shelf. Maybe that would do for everyone. You must be completely worn out." "It has been rather a tiring day," assented Mrs. Lansing. CONTENTMENT IS A LOVELY THING HE next morning Margaret was wracking her brains to try and think of someone who might be persuaded to come over and help with the housework, when she heard a sharp scream, followed by sounds of confusion both inside and out of the house. She threw back the covers and stood wobbly upon her feet. She gripped the end of the bed and was reaching for her robe when Jed came in. Without a word he pushed her back into the bed and pulled up the covers. "What is it?" she asked breathless. "What on earth happened?" "Mother was outside watching Kimmy, and Mrs. Jackson's pigs came rushing through the fence— yes, the one Dad was working on— and they made Mother trip and fall." "Oh, how awful!" cried Margaret, "Gs she hurt? Of course the pigs are hungry. We've forgotten to feed them since Mrs. Jackson left. Jed, we simply must get some help. Start with the A's and go through the phone book. 'Tell them it's just for a day or two. I can surely get up tomorrow." "Tl try," he agreed. "Mother ls just shaken up, but I'm getting desperate." Margaret heard him calling on the telephone and later talking with his father on the front porch. He must have been successful in getting someone. She could probably get up tomorrow, and they could go ahead with their plans for entertainment. After all, there were still five days left of the scheduled visit. She started making plans for the 835 garden party she would have. She would invite everybody in the ward and when the Lansings learned what really fine people they were, they couldn't help being completely won over. She had just finished making arrangements with the weather man for a clear, moon-bright night for the affair, when Jed came in from the porch. "Margaret," he began with an air of apology, "I hope you won't mind too much. Mother feels as if she might be getting the flu unless she rests, and she doesn't want to stay here and be a burden on you, so she and Dad are leaving in the morning, since you will be able to be up. Dad can do some fishing while Mother rests." "You mean they're not staying the week out?" she asked, blankly. "I'm afraid that's right." The 'note of finality in his tone struck her with the impact of a physical blow. 'They had come to the farm for a restful vacation and to get acquainted with her and Kimmy. Instead they had found nothing but hard work. There was a grayness beginning beyond the windows, and a distant roll of thunder. An approaching storm always meant hurried preparations. Jed rushed out to make ready for the second storm of the short spring season. A complete sense of failure closed in on Margaret. 'The heavy clouds that she could see through the window suited her mood exactly. She would weep with them. But would there be a rainbow? She doubted it. Anyway, she would be back on her own two feet tomorTOW. 836 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 UMMER'S beginning was always a time of joy in the valley. The very air seemed to be filled with a friendly content, the earth's reawakening showing in the fresh green of the fields and gardens, in the gloriously delicate blossoms that festooned the orchards, giving promise of a bountiful harvest. Jed and Margaret had always found new happiness each spring in the awareness of nature's fulfillment. But this spring, with her strength returning slowly, Margaret's spirits felt no soaring. Mrs. Jackson had come back from her sister's, and Margaret welcomed her kind solicitousness. This morning, Mrs. Jackson had insisted on doing the heavier duties in the kitchen, while Margaret managed the lighter work, at the same time trailing around after Kimmy, keeping him out of mischief. She finished tidying up the bedroom and steered Kimmy's pattering feet into the kitchen just in time to meet Jed as he came in from the barn to eat his lunch. "Hi, honey," he greeted. He picked Kimmy up and swung him up on his shoulder, then asked. "Is everybody all set for the ward supper tonight?" "All set," Margaret answered. "Smell those delicious pies Mrs. Jackson just finished baking." The pies Mrs. Jackson had baked to take to the ward supper were set in a row on the kitchen table, still steaming hot from the oven. This would be Margaret's first time out since her illness, and as practically everyone in the community always attended these affairs, she was looking forward to greeting friends she had not seen for many weeks. Tonight's supper had been planned to raise funds toward building a new chapel. Jed was chairman and he wanted it to be a big success. He had been so busy and happy the past few weeks that Margaret hoped it meant a return to their old feeling of contentment. She knew that since his parents' brief visit and their sudden departure, he had begun to feel again that he was neglecting his duty toward them. Margaret had prepared a single sandwich for Jed's lunch, and poured a glass of the rich, cold milk that was his favorite beverage, and set it on the breadboard so as not to disturb the cooling pies.