[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 08 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
[Editorial The 125th Semi-Annual Church Conference Marianne Sharp]
"Is Grandpa gonna come on Christmas an' bring us lots of presents?" persisted Ann. "No, darling, you're getting Grandpa mixed up with Santa Claus. Santa Claus is." She stopped. This was what Mrs. Hugo Quayle meant by children living in a world of unreality. Because they only knew Grandpa as a man who sent them presents, they confused him with Santa Claus. ALKING back across the frozen lawn, Sally resolved firmly to set them straight. She led the children into the living room, set them on the sofa and drew up a chair before them. Bill's power saw was still humming in the basement where he was making a doll house for Ann., 839 "Karl, Ann, Santa Claus is not a real man." They looked at her blankly. "He is just imaginary. Santa never brings you presents, because there isn't any Santa Claus. All the gifts you get are from other people." "But " A puzzled look broke out on Karl's face. "I saw him uptown, in a store window." "That was just a man dressed up," Sally explained patiently. "Like like you dress up like Roy Rogems. Karl gave a noncommital "Oh," looked thoughtful for a moment, and then dashed off to play. Ann followed. There! Sally thought trumphantly. Now we'll have an honest Christmas. No little fat man in a red suit is going to get credit he doesn't deserve. In the next quickly passing days, Sally made plum puddings and fancy cookies, sent the last of the Christmas cards, and on Saturday took the children shopping. They entered Lee and Johnson's Department Store. On a huge dais in the middle of the glittering main floor sat a jolly figure with a magnificent white flowing beard. "Santa Claus!" Ann tugged at Sally's hand. Karl had. Already dashed over to get a closer look. "It's not really Santa Claus, darling. I told you. It's just a man." Santa extended a mittened hand and said in a rich, booming voice, "Would you like to sit on Santa's lap, little boy, and tell me what you want for Christmas?" Karl hesitated, looked at his mother.

"We have to get Daddy's pres- (Continued on page 860) LESS N DEPARTMENT I Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 30—Moroni and the Nephite Armies Serve Their Country and Their Church Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Alma, chapters 43-49) For Tuesday, March 1, 1955 Objective: To show that the Lord will not suffer his people to be destroyed, if they remain righteous and uphold the truth. Invasions of Lamanites OLLOWING Alma's great teachings and admonitions to his his three sons, they went forth in the power of the Priesthood among the people to preach the gospel. Alma "himself could not rest" so he also preached. At this time in the history of the Nephites, about seventy-three years before the birth of Christ, there began a series of invasions by the Lamanites who captured some cities of the Nephites. During the dark years of war, a great military leader Moroni arose among the Nephites who was named chief captain at twenty-five years of age, and given command of all the armies of the Nephites. Not only was he a great military genius, he Page 840 was also a mighty spiritual leader.