[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 07 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Pardue]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Right After Christmas .• Ida M. Pardue]
contents  thereof,  special  features,  editorials, 
lessons,  poetry,  general  features,  features 
for  the  home,  etc.  .  .  I  especially  want  to 
thank  Lucile  Tournear  for  her  inspiration- 
al story  "New  Light"  in  the  August  Maga- 
zine. I  shed  tears  each  time  I  read  it. 
— Sarah  L.  Hinchcliff 
Chula  Vista  Ward 
San  Diego  Stake,  California 
I  can  never  explain  how  I  \o\e  the  little 
book  —  the  Magazine  —  for  I  read  it 
from  cover  to  co\er,  then  the  lessons  over 
and  over.  You  put  a  little  piece  on  the 
Near  and  Far  page  with  my  name  on  it. 
I  received  a  card  from  one  of  my  friends 
in  Hawaii  on  a  mission,  Hazel  Poulsen 
Snow.  She  is  a  grandmother  and  a  wid- 
ow, and  I  hadn't  heard  from  her  for  years. 
There  she  was  reminded  of  me  by  that 
little  book  carrying  a  message  in  that  far- 
away land!  Then,  down  in  Florida,  Hazel 
Clark,  a  friend  from  Bancroft,  saw  my 
name  and  wrote  me  a  letter  ....  She  told 
me  how  she  lo\ed  the  Magazine.  My 
near  friends  also  said  they  saw  my  name, 
and  a  cousin  in  California  I  had  almost 
lost  track  of.  I  think  it  should  almost  be 
called  a  Magazine  of  happiness. 
— Zetta  H.  Ormond 
Bancroft,  Idaho 
I  enjoy  the  Magazine  \ery  much.  As 
soon  as  it  comes  I  usually  sit  down  and 
read  it  from  cover  to  cover  as  soon  as  I 
can. 
— Mrs.  Hcber  L.  Olson 
I  have  six  daughters.  All  are  in  Relief 
Society,  one  president,  two  social  science 
class  leaders,  one  theology  class  leader,  one 
stake  board  member,  and  one  who  helps 
with  the  \\ork  meetings.  I  started  out  as 
a  secretary  and  ha\e  been  acti\'e  e\er  since. 
I  taught  the  theology  lessons  until  illness 
in  1940  prevented  me  from  being  able 
always  to  attend  meetings.  Now  that  I 
cannot  attend  meeting,  I  still  enjoy  the 
wonderful  Relief  Society  Magazine.  It  is 
so  spiritual. — Rebecca  Harris 
Ileyburn,  Idaho 
I  do  so  much  enjoy  all  the  wonderful 
articles  in  the  best  Magazine  of  all — The 
Relief  Society  Magazine.  I  get  so  much 
pleasure  reading  each  one  of  the  stories 
and  poems,  and  enjoy  the  interesting  way 
in  which  the  stories  are  told  of  our  lead- 
ing men  of  the  Church. 
— Mrs.  Gladys  B.  Thomas 
Pasadena,  California 
The  Magazine  is  so  wonderful  I  would 
not  want  to  miss  one  issue,  as  each  is 
read  by  my  family  from  cover  to  cover. 
We  live  forty-four  miles  from  any  organ- 
ization of  any  kind  and  so  are  not  able  to 
get  to  meetings  very  often.  I  do  miss 
my  Relief  Society  \ery  much,  as  we  used 
to  li\e  at  Conrad,  and  I  was  the  president 
of  the  first  Relief  Society  ever  organized 
there,  five  years  ago.  I  do  keep  up  on  all 
my  lessons  and  scripture  reading.  Life 
would  be  \ery  unhappy  if  I  did  not  have 
my  Magazine. 
— Mrs.  Clarence  J.  Peterson 
Chester,  Montana 
I  love  the  Magazine  and  ha\e  had  many 
happy  surprises  from  it,  finding  the  pic- 
tures of  cousins  and  girlhood  friends  sud- 
denly looking  out  at  me,  and  I  have  thrilled 
with  them  at  the  prizes  they  have  taken. 
The  only  fault  I  ha\e  e\er  found  \\'ith  our 
Magazine  is  that  there  is  never  enough  of 
it  to  stretch  from  one  month  to  the  next. 
■ — Bcrnice  Edrington 
Logan,  Utah 
Roosexelt,  Utah 
Page  786