[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Gardner]
[Work Meeting: Home Freezers and Refrigerators Rhea H. Gardner]
846 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER    1954 
ments  and  duties  must  be  per- 
formed. But  how  much  time  are 
we  devoting  to  loving  one  another? 
Are  we  taking  enough  time  to  dis- 
pense this  priceless  commodity?  Is 
there  time  for  us  to  be  patient, 
kind?  If  not,  then  we  are  not  us- 
ing time  judiciously,  for  love  is  the 
most  needed  corrective  for  this 
world's  ills.    The  Savior  said: 
A    new    commandment    I    give     unto 
you,  That  ye  love  one  another;  as  I  have 
lo\ed  you,  that  ye  also  love  one  another 
(John  13:34). 
In  the  Church  there  are  numer- 
ous opportunities  afforded  us  to 
show  our  love  for  one  another,  and 
the  more  of  these  opportunities  we 
accept,  the  greater  will  be  our 
capacity  for  love.  ''As  we  love,  we 
serve,  and  as  we  serve,  our  love  is 
increased."  In  a  spirit  of  love  we 
can  truly  teach  the  word  of  God 
to  others. 
vi/ork    1 1  ieetifig — Selection,  Care,  and  Use  of 
Household  Equipment 
(A  Course  Recommended  for  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  6— Home  Freezers  and  Refrigerators 
Rhea  H.  Gardner 
For  Tuesday,  March  8,  1955 
lyiODERN  home  refrigeration 
equipment  has  done  as  much 
or  more  to  improve  standards  of  liv- 
ing and  add  to  the  pleasantness  of 
life  than  any  other  kind  of  house- 
hold equipment.  Home  freezers 
and  refrigerators  have  made  it  pos- 
sible for  isolated  farm  families  to 
enjoy  garden  fresh  fruits  and  vege- 
tables the  vear  around.  A  continuous 
supply  of  fresh  meat  and  other 
foods,  stored  in  the  home  freezer  or 
nearby  locker  plant,  has  made  pos- 
sible appetizing  and  nutritious  meals 
during  all  seasons  of  the  year. 
Before  you  buy  a  home  freezer 
you  would  do  well  to  have  definite 
plans  for  securing  food  to  put  into 
it.  The  wisdom  of  buying  fresh 
fruits  and  vegetables  from  the  regu- 
lar retail  market  is  questionable.  Un- 
less one  can  raise  his  own  vegetables 
and  fruit  or  secure  them  in  quantity 
directly  from  a  grower,  it  may  pay 
to  buy  a  freezer  just  large  enough 
for  meat  and  cooked  foods.  Frozen 
fruits  and  vegetables  are  now  avail- 
able at  most  grocery  stores  at  a  fair 
price. 
If  one  intends  to  fill  the  freezer 
with  home  produced  foods,  plans 
for  increased  amounts  and  varieties 
best  suited  to  freezing  should  be 
made  prior  to  planting  time. 
Homemakers  should  be  sure  they 
have  sufficient  room  in  their  homes 
for  a  freezer  and  they  would  do  well 
to  understand  what  the  total  cost 
of  owning  a  home  freezer  will  be 
before  actually  making  the  purchase. 
This  includes  interest  on  the  mon- 
ey invested,  cost  of  repairs  and  up- 
keep (approximately  two  per  cent 
of    cost    per    year),    electricity    to