[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: 822 The Meaning of December for Latter-day Saints Vesta P. Crawford]
DECEMBER  1954 
NO.  12 
cJhe  i^^th  (bemi-^/innuai   (church   (conference 
A spirit  of  appreciation,  gratitude, 
and  unity  characterized  the  en- 
tire proceedings  of  the  One  Hun- 
dred Twenty-Fifth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  held  on 
October  1-3,  1954,  in  the  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square.  The  presence 
and  words  of  two  of  the  General 
Authorities  were  missed— Elder  Ad- 
am S.  Bennion  and  Bishop  Joseph 
Wirthlin  both  of  whom  were  recov- 
ering from  illnesses. 
Great  coverage  was  afforded  by 
radio  and  television  in  Western 
States,  originating  with  KSL  and 
KSL-TV,  and  through  a  closed 
circuit  the  proceedings  of  the 
Priesthood  meeting  went  to  stake 
chapels  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Wyoming, 
Arizona,  and  up  and  down  the 
Pacific  Coast,  where  members  of 
the  Priesthood  were  assembled  for 
this  unusual  opportunity. 
The  spread  of  the  gospel,  geo- 
graphically, was  indicated  by  Presi- 
dent McKay's  extending  love  and 
greetings  to  Church  members  in 
Canada,  Mexico,  Europe,  South 
Africa,  South  America,  New  Zea- 
land, Australia,  the  Polynesian  Is- 
lands, Japan,  China,  Greenland,  Ice- 
land, to  groups  in  Korea,  the  Philip- 
pines, on  Guam,  and  other  islands 
of  the  Pacific. 
In  President  McKay's  opening  ad- 
dress  he   stated   that   he    felt    im- 
Page  822 
pressed  to  say  a  word  of  commenda- 
tion about  what  the  Church  is  do- 
ing to  help  parents  rear  their  chil- 
dren, particularly  the  teenagers  of 
the  Church.  Three  groups  carry 
the  responsibility  of  training  chil- 
dren, he  averred,  first  the  family; 
second  the  Church;  and  third  the 
state. 
President  McKay  stressed  the  fact 
that  the  Lord  has  placed  upon  par- 
ents: 
.  .  .  the  responsibility,  first  to  teach  the 
doctrine  of  repentance;  second,  faith  in 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living  God;  third, 
baptism  and  confirmation;  fourth,  to  teach 
children  to  pray;  fifth  to  teach  children 
to  walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord.  Par- 
ents who  shirk  this  responsibility  will  have 
to  answer  for  the  sin  of  neglect  .... 
The  most  effective  way  to  teach  is  by  ex- 
ample. 
In  speaking  of  the  great  work  be- 
ing done  by  the  Church  for  teen- 
agers, he  commended  that  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  Sunday  School, 
Y.M.M.I.A.  and  Y.W.M.I.A.,  the 
Primary,  and  the  seminaries.  He 
showed  plainly  iiow  effective  the 
Church  is  in  its  divine  organization 
in  touching  the  hfe  and  activities  of 
every  member  therein." 
President  Richards  set  forth  for 
the  edification  of  Church  members, 
some  features  of  the  missionary  pro- 
gram, notably  * 'planned  teaching  of 
the  gospel  to  investigators  .  .  .  ."

EDITORIAL 
823 
Teaching  with  testimony,  he  charac- 
terized as  the  epitome  of  mission- 
ary effort. 
He  outhned  the  standardized  pro- 
gram, mentioning  lessons  used  by 
the  missionaries  on:  the  Godhead; 
the  apostacy;  the  restoration;  The 
Book  of  Mormon;  followed  by  the 
teaching  of  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  and  the  eternal  plan  of  sal- 
vation as  they  affect  the  individual 
lives  of  all  men;  the  call  to  repent- 
ance; and  humility.  He  pointed  out: 
There  is  a  feature  of  this  missionar}- 
teaching  not  confined  to  any  one  lesson, 
but  running  throughout  the  entire  pro- 
gram, which  deserves  special  mention.  It 
is  the  constant  emphasis  on  the  principle 
that  it  is  the  truth. 
President  Richards  appealed  to 
the  homes  visited  by  the  mission- 
aries ''to  listen  with  an  open  mind, 
and  with  a  measure  of  patience."  He 
also  declared  that  the  consistency  of 
the  living  of  Latter-day  Saints  will 
make  an  invaluable  contribution  to 
the  missionary  program. 
President  Clark  expressed  grati- 
tude for,  'a  sixth  sense,"  which  a 
non-member  once  referred  to  in  jest 
as  a  sense  that  enables  one  to  be- 
lieve Mormonism.  He  pointed  out: 
This  gospel  .  .  .  has  been  the  same  gos- 
pel from  the  beginning,  not  always  under- 
stood, not  always  preached,  but  it  has 
been  the  plan  of  life,  salvation,  and  exal- 
tation from  the  time  it  was  taught  to 
Adam  ....  I  am  happy  that  we  Latter 
day  Saints  have  blessings  and  a  heritage 
that  teaches  us  the  truths  of  this  ever- 
lasting gospel. 
He  recounted  one  by  one  the  mar- 
velous blessings  enjoyed  by  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  "We  are  blessed,  I 
was  going  to  say,  beyond  all.  in  our 
knowledge,  our  testimony,  our  wit- 
ness that  Jesus  is  the  Christ." 
He  said  in  closing: 
I  bear  you  my  testimony  again  that  the 
authority  conferred  upon  Joseph  still  is 
in  the  Church  and  that  the  President  of 
the  Church,  our  great  leader.  President
