[Vol41 | December 1954 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Ceremony]
RELIEF SOCIETY Standing at the Southwest Corner of the Relief Society Building September 22, 1954 Left to right: Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford; Counselor Velma N. Simonsen. NN Page OUD 804 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH, OFFICERS OF RELIEF SOCIETY, AND HONORED GUESTS PRESENT AT THE CORNERSTONE-LAYING CEREMONY Front row, left to nght: His Honor, Mayor Earl J. Glade of Salt Lake City; President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.; President David O. McKay; Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay; The Honorable J. Bracken Lee, Governor of Utah; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; Counselor Velma N. Simonsen; Former President of Relief Society, Amy Brown Lyman. At the time this photograph was taken, President Belle S. Spafford was standing at the speaker's stand, delivering an address. On other rows. Relief Society membership in a session of our conference. We all recall the rejoicing of a year ago, October 1953, when ground was broken. In the fall of 1953 plans were approved and bids were let. Bids were opened December 3, 1953, and the appropriation from the Church was approved December 22, 1953. The contract for the Other General Authorities may be seen construction of the building was awarded to the Fullmer Brothers Construction Company, and excavation began January 16, 1954. 'Today we are gratified to take another step forward—the laying of the cornerstone. In an address delivered at the general Relief Society conference, October 2, 1947, President George Al- CORNERSTONE-LAYING CEREMONY bert Smith, in tribute to the Relief Society sisters and in speaking of the building, said: I don't care how fine it is, how large it is, or how beautiful it is, it will not be better than you deserve. There isn't anything too good for you as long as you keep the commandments of the Lord. You know he said, "... Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and its mghteousness; and all these things shall be added unto? You. A year ago at the ground-breaking ceremonies, President David O. McKay reminded us: No matter how commodious it may be, no matter how well-furnished the rooms, no matter how great the convenience of the furnishings, the house itself with all equipment is but a means to an end, and that end is the establishment in the hearts of the membership of the Church of a testimony of the truth of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. It is the means to a glorious end, the salvation of our Father's children.... And so this house becomes a means of furthering the work of the great Relief Society, the very heart and purpose of which is to bring happiness and peace into the homes and the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. In speaking for the Relief Society women throughout the world today, I say to President McKay, President Richards, and President Clark, we acknowledge our blessings, we recognize our responsibilities, we sincerely pray for strength and wisdom to live so as to merit a continuation of our blessings and to meet our Godgiven responsibilities under the direction of the Priesthood. We will now hear remarks from our immediate past President, Sister Amy Brown Lyman, who will speak for the women of yesterday. 805 President Amy Brown Lyman President McKay, Sister Spafford, my dear brothers and sisters, dear everybody! The erection of this important building is one of the greatest achievements of the Relief Society. It is the culmination of the hopes, dreams, and prayers of the women of the past and the pride and joy of the women of today. The idea of a woman's building has been uppermost in the minds of Relief Society workers for many years. It began to take shape when the first general board was organized seventy-four years ago. It was in June 1880 that President John 'Taylor, at a sisters' conference in the Assembly Hall, organized central, or general boards, for the three women's auxiliary organization of the Church. The Relief Society was then thirty-eight years old, and had a membership of 12,288. Four stakes had already recently been organized, and several others were in the course of being set up, and by the end of the next year, 1881, sixteen stakes in all had been organized. It was appartent at once that this amalgamation of independent ward societies into unified stake groups, with uniform standards and co-ordinated activities, would need direction and supervision, and that a central office or headquarters would be necessary for the work. The Woman's Exponent, which had been established eight years before, in 1872, and which had a very modest office, came forward and graciously opened its doors to the new board, and for the next twenty-nine years, in_ this modest little office, wherever it was located, Relief Society board meetings were held, and the supervisory 806 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 work of the organization carried on. The Exponent office, which had a number of different locations during this period, was finally set up in the Templeton Building, with two large rooms and adequate closet space. Here, it became the center of women's activities, a sort of central intelligence agency, or bureau of information for the women of the Church. 'The general board, meanwhile, was happy here and managed fairly well. We remember, with a feeling of nostalgia, the cozy board meetings held here, which were often spiritual feasts. However, the need of more space and a headquarters of their own were ever before these energetic, resourceful women. Ambitious women, they were, not for themselves, but for their organization. And a_ building fund was started, which, by the turn of the century, was a considerable amount for that day, and a building site was promised them on this very square or block. I am persuaded that no other location would have been entirely satisfactory to them, so close had they always felt to the First Presidency and the headquarters of the Church itself, ever since the days of Nauvoo. After careful consideration with the Brethren, the erection of a suitable building was felt to be beyond the ability and resources of the women at that time, and they were advised to invest their funds in the proposed new Bishop's Building being planned for, in lieu of which, they would be adequately housed there. To this proposition they acceded, I must say rather reluctantly. And for forty-five years, since December igo9, the Relief Society, with the two other auxiliary groups which also made their contributions, has had comfortable headquarters and a delightful home. Here the general board has worked under the direct supervision of the Presiding Bishopric, who, because of their kindly consideration and understanding hearts, have been deeply appreciated and greatly beloved. We were a very happy family, always, in the Bishop's Building. And now, after these many years, we are to have a magnificent building of our Own, our very own, greater and grander than was ever dreamed of, and surely worth waiting for. Here it stands, facing the holy temple, and in close proximity to the headquarters of the Church. Here it stands on ground which has been made sacred by the many historic events which have occurred here, on ground made sacred by the feet of those who have trodden here. Here it stands on the very square from which goes forth the Word, also great and manifold spiritual blessings, yes, and material succor as well. In behalf of the women of the past, it is with joy and deep appreciation that I extend gratitude and thanks to the Presiding Authorities of the Church for their generosity in granting us this precious piece of ground, and for assisting us so magnanimously in the erection of the great edifice which will adorn it. Also, gratitude and thanks for the women of today for their generosity, and to any and all who have contributed to this great project. May God bless this building which will be dedicated to his service, and bless us all, is the prayer I offer in Jesus' name. Amen. CORNERSTONE-LAYING CEREMONY Genoese EO SON RE: ee ne ne gaat Se poco owen I RRR a cpa eS Courtesy Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram PRESIDENT BELLE IN WELISY S@GIETY S. SPAFFORD DEPOSITS BUILDING CORNERSTONE 807 RECORDS September 76, 1954 Left to nght: Bishop George Cannon Young, Architect for the Relief Society Building; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society; Velma N. Simonsen, Second Counselor, Relief Society; President David O. McKay. President Belle S. Spafford We will now proceed with the laying of the cornerstone. 'This service will be directed by President David O. McKay. He has authorized Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, Chairman of the General Board Building Committee, to designate the articles to go into the corner stone, and President Spafford and Counselor Simonsen have been requested by President McKay to place the articles in the cornerstone. President McKay will offer the dedicatory prayer. I now turn the proceedings to President McKay. Announcer: Dean Bennet for KSL Radio Station. Now the stone is in place and is being set by workmen here on the project. The chain will be released from the stone, and the copper box will be placed within the cornerstone. 'Uhe box is quite large. It is eleven inches wide by twenty nine inches long, and thirteen and a half inches deep. It is all copper 808 I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 a product of the State of Utah, one of the outstanding products that the State of Utah produces. 'The box is placed within the cornerstone now. [During the time that Counselor Sharp was reading the list of articles to be placed in the cornerstone, President Spafford and Counselor Simonsen deposited the articles in the cornerstone. Counselor Marianne C. Sharp This is a joyous occasion, not only to us who are privileged to be here today, but also to our dear sisters throughout the world who helped for this great occasion by giving of their five-dollar quotas. Under the direction of the First Presidency, we have collected the articles to be placed in the cornerstone. We have listed them under six categories of seven packages. Each package has been wrapped in plastic and sealed, and a listing of the articles in each package is written on top of the packages. ARTICLES PLACED IN THE CORNERSTONE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING SEPTEMBER 30, 1954 The first category contains two packages: I. Lists of Stake and Mission Contributors to Relief Society Building Fund II. History of Relief Society Building Activity: Copies of Financial Forms Used to Record the Raising of a Half Million Dollars General Instructions Instructions for Recording Names of Contributors Three Types of Receipt Cards: Quota, Special, Memorial Sample Sheets for Contributors' Names Copies of Three Letters: A Photostat of the Approval of the First Presidency to Undertake Building Program, September 16, 1947 General Presidency of the Relief Society Letter to Stakes and Wards Outlining Financial Plan, October 21, 1947 Presiding Bishopric Letter of November 6, 1947, Endorsing Fund-Raising Program of Stake Presidencies and Ward Bishoprics Copy of Architect's Drawing of Relief Society Building Copies of Relief Society Annual General Conference Programs: 1948, 1953, 1954 Copy of the Invitation to Ground-Breaking Ceremony, 1953 Copy of t