[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 811 | Special Feature | "Living Water" Louise | W. Madsen]
"LIVING WATER" Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address delivered at the General Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1970] @ It was on a journey from Judea to Galilee in which "he must needs go through Samaria" that Christ came to a city called Sychar, "near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph." Jacob's well was there and "Jesus being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well: and it was about the sixth hour." There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water. The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: from whence then hast thou that living water? Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle? Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again: But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life. (John 4:7, 9-14.) The woman, not understanding, asked for the water that she need come to the well no longer. Further conversation ensued in which "The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet." (John 4:19.) Christ taught her: But the hour cometh, and now is, when true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to worship him. The woman saith unto him, I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ: when he is come, he will tell us all things. J 

811 November 1970

 Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am he. (John 4:23, 25-26.) When she heard this wonderful declaration the woman ran back to the city of Sychar and told the people what Jesus had said to her. Many people went out to see him and invited him to stay with them. He stayed for two days and many believed his teachings. When he left to continue his journey to Galilee, the people said to the woman who first met Jesus: Now we believe, not because of thy saying: for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Saviour of the world. (John 4:42.) From the very beginning of his ministry, Jesus taught of himself that he was the Christ. He again made that affirmation to the woman at Jacob's well. To each of us who thirsts there is the promise that the "living water" Christ gives "shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life." This well is constant, endless, never dry. One has but to drink,*to sip, to taste, to be aware that the well within us, the living water of the word of God, if kept pure and uncontaminated, will keep us alive in the faith and lead us to eternal salvation. Because of the well within us others may be refreshed from its "living water." From each of us can emanate a spirit of goodness, of sisterliness. In Relief Society we share our knowledge of the gospel, we teach one another its truths and all virtuous and lovely things. The words of our testimonies, the actions of our lives, the loving service we give communicate the power of our desire to do those things which are 812 pleasing in the sight of the Lord. They bear witness that we have drunk from the well of living water. "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled" (Matt. 5:6), we read in the Bible. "And blessed are all they who do hunger and thirst after rnighteousness, for they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost" (3 Nephi 12:6), the Book of Mormon further expounds. To be filled with the Holy Ghost is to have the knowledge that Jesus is the Christ which knowledge is necessary to gain eternal life. But how shall we come into possession of that knowledge? I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever; Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. (John 14:16-17.) This Comforter is the promise which I give unto you of eternal life, even the glory of the celestial kingdom. (D. & C. 88:4.) The Comforter teaches the truth. - These are the days spoken of by the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith which "in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men" (D. & C. 89:4) are difficult days in which to live. We have been warned and forewarned. Jesus said, "Take heed that no man deceive you." (P. Of G. P. - Joseph Smith 1:5.) Yet we have been promised that "whoso treasureth up my word shall not be deceived." (P. Of G. P. - Joseph Smith 1:37.) Surely this is a most gratifying promise! To be certain that all the wiles of Satan as he works with "conspiring men" cannot deceive those who treasure the word of God is reassuring. Our constant search for spiritual knowledge, our firm testimonies will stand us in good stead. When evil puts on the guise of nght, we will not be deceived; when reason seems to point to false conclusions, we will not be deceived; when many in the world lean to the philosophies of men, we will not be deceived. "He that re- "Living Water"' maineth steadfast the same shall be saved." (P. Of G. P. - Joseph Smith 1:11.) With the gift of living water, the well of knowledge within us, with our thirsting after righteousness and being filled with the Holy Ghost, the strength of pure faith shall guide us to live as the Lord would have us live in this world so that we merit the highest blessings of the eternal world. May this be so I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Oy - bee ae a ee, a per Lg, A) = t=: == 4-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-6 6-0-0-6-0-0-00-0 0 10) POeeeeeeererssreenerses: ») = ' \ INTRODUCTION A regular feature of the Offcers Meeting of the Annual Relief Society Conference is a brief report of the status of Relief Society as shown in the compiled annual statistical and narrative reports, together with a few current official instructions and recommendations. As you know, Relief Society reports presently cover a fiscal year, September 1 to August 31. Reports are not due in the General Board office until September 20. This does not allow for a compilation of the figures in I Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford Vu ¥ ', LEE $4 Berea "q Ty Sunssenaayines EXRADEE ARAN ee Je b - Be 8pada dtOEE EEE EE:(th FCCC CEL ECE CL ECELCLELT se RO eee REHHHHHHHaaaeae aa oeoso ooo assdaansaauasaaaadsiisineceateee Vv VV Vv vy oo VV Ve VV eee ree heh hve rh time for presentation at this meeting. In reporting some activities, therefore, we have estimated growth and accomplishments for the current year in line with increases during the previous fiscal year. Precise figures will be made available to you when the reports for 1969-70 are audited and figures are compiled. There is abundant evidence that Relief Society is growing in numbers and in its power for good, and that the programs of the Society hold the interest and meet the needs of women. We note 

813 November 1970

 with gratitude the power of the Society in influencing aright the attitudes and conduct of its members. This is particularly pleasing as it relates to the younger members, many of whom are enrolled in campus Relief Societies. ORGANIZATIONAL GROWTH There are presently 523 stake Relief Society organizations, 92 mission organizations, 381 mission district organizations, 6,793 ward and branch Societies (4,777 in stakes; 2,016 in missions). During the past year, stakes have been organized in far-away Japan and in South Africa, with additional stakes being created in Australia, New Zealand, South America, Mexico, and other areas far removed from Church headquarters showing evidence of the growth and expansion of the Church. MEMBERSHIP Assuming the growth in membership this past year was at least equal to that of the previous year (and we are inclined to think it exceeded it), the Society has a membership in excess of 338,000 (338,213) including women of many nationalities and wide agerange. The program is proving equally attractive to young and older women. We are delighted with the accomplishments of the campus Relief Societies. This is a day when philosophies strange to Latter-day Saints are springing up with regard to woman, her rights, her relationships to her mate, her function asa childbearer and rearer and a homemaker, and her place in public life. There is a growing opinion among people 814 that it is her privilege to live and to do as she chooses, unhampered by laws that are regarded as antiquated, such as marriage and divorce laws, and moral codes that are considered outmoded, such as those that relate to childbearing, the restraints of religious teachings, and social traditions which glorify the role of woman as a mother and homemaker. Movements are springing up in this nation and _ elsewhere that advocate extreme viewpoints with regard to woman's role in life, and that militantly demand an acceptance of her as being totally on a par with man, ignoring the natural differences between man and woman which enter so markedly into the quality and character of woman's labors and into her primary role as defined by the Lord. Relief Society must stand as a fortress against the penetration into the lives of our sisters of philosophies and viewpoints that are not in harmony with God's divine plan for his daughters and which run counter to the teachings-of the presiding Church authorities. It must do so with strength equal to the task. The teachings of Relief Society have never been more urgently needed than they are today to help our sisters wisely to order their lives, to shape aright their thinking and attitudes and influence their conduct, and to enable them properly to meet the responsibilities placed upon them by the Lord. Relief Society leaders owe it to Latter-day Saint women to be tireless in helping them to know and appreciate the values of Relief Society and the benefits of actively participating in its work. MEMBERSHIP DUES While new rulings of the Church have dispensed with the payment of membership dues, we call your attention to the regulation contained in_ the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions that admittance to membership is by vote of the members present. Reports reaching the General Board indicate that this important regulation is sometimes neglected. This should not happen. Even though membership dues have _ been eliminated, membership cards will continue to be issued annually to all enrolled sisters in recognition of and as evidence of membership. PROGRAM CHANGES; FUNDING Two major changes have taken place in Relief Society programs in recent months at the direction of The First Presidency. One is the change in the funding program from self-financing to financing through a Church budget system. This applies to all units of Relief Society, including the General Board. It relieves the Society of independently conducting fund-raising programs, including the holding of bazaars. With reference to bazaars, a letter dated July 17, 1970 from The First Presidency, addressed to All Stake Presidents, Bishops, Mission Presidents, District Presidents, Branch Presidents, and Auxiliary Heads of General Boards, states: The Relief Society is hereafter to