[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 843 | General Feature | Spiritual Living— Lesson 6— Satan and Mankind | ]
[Spiritual Living— Lesson 6— Satan and Mankind]

843 November 1970

 As one compares the Book of Moses in the Pearl of Great Price with the writings of Moses in the Bible, it is apparent that this prophecy is literally fulfilled in the revealing of the Book of Moses to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Unto Joseph, son of Jacob, it was known, but not preserved in the Bible, that there would be a seer raised up in the last days, whose name would be Joseph. This Joseph's father would also be named Joseph, that is, Joseph Smith, Sr., father of Joseph, the choice seer of the latter days. (2 Ne. 3:6-9, 17.) This prophecy came from the brass plates carried by Lehi from the old world. The Book of Mormon also attests to the truth that Moses received the words of the Lord, for the brass plates contained "the five books of Moses [Genesis through Deuteronomy], which gave an account of the creation of the world, and also of Adam and Eve, who were our first parents." (1 Ne. 5:11.) One of the important contributions of the Pearl of Great Price to our knowledge of the world in which we live is the reality of Satan. Latter-day Saints may look upon the few references to Satan or the devil in the Old Testament as a deliberate attempt to nullify the concept of Satan as a personage of spint opposed to God. Nephi was informed through revelation that many plain and precious things would be taken from the Bible which would cause people to stumble in unbelief. In fact, the angel told him that because of these deletions from _ the Bible "Satan hath great power over them." (1 Ne. 13:24-29.) 844 The first time the name Satan is mentioned in the Bible is in the First Book of the Chronicles (21:1), and his name appears in only thirteen verses in the Old Testament, ten of which are in the Book of Job. The devil, or devils, are mentioned only four times in the Old Testament. The book of Genesis records that it was the serpent who tempted Adam and Eve. (Gen. 3:1-2.) Some critics of the Bible have concluded that because of the few references to Satan in the Old Testament, the Jewish people acquired the idea of Satan at a later date, probably from the Babylonians. This view of the Bible indicates a belief in the evolution of religious ideas rather than viewing them as being revealed from God. THE BOOK OF MOSES AND SATAN In the eight chapters of the Book of Moses, the name Satan appears twenty-eight times. Satan is referred to as the devil. (Moses 4:4.) It is evident that in the beginning a knowledge of the devil as an individual was had, according to the revelations. (2 Ne. 2:17; D&C 29:36-37; 76: 25-29.) Examples of scriptures in the Book of Moses which refer to Satan, but are lost from the Bible are: (1) the temptation of Moses (Moses 1:12-22); (2) the temptation of Adam and Eve (Moses 4:5-12; cf. Gen. 3:6; (3) the origin of Satan (Moses 4:1-4); (4) the temptation of the sons and daughters of Adam and Eve (Moses 5: 13); (5) Cain and Satan (Moses 5:17-23; cf. Gen. 4:2-7); and (6) other references to Satan's power that are not found in the Bible. (Moses 5:28-31, 38, 49, 52, 55; 6:15, 29, 49; 7:24, 26, 38, 57.) Class Discussion Take one of the incidents involving Satan from the book of Moses and show wherein it is of value to you. Latter-day Saints know Satan to be an individual spirit-being. President George Q. Cannon, a counselor in the First Presidency in this dispensation, wrote: Satan exercised his agency and became the devil. He loved evil and chose it. We have no doubt that in the beginning, before he became totally abandoned, he was taught the right way, he was plead with, entreated and prayed for. The revelations teach us that he was an angel of God, that he was, in fact, a son of God. He had the same opportunity of choosing the good that Jesus had; but he was disobedient and rebellious. He fought against the Father and became a fallen angel, even a devil. He could do this, because he was a free agent. [Abr. 3:27-28; D&C 29:36-38; 76:25-28] (George Q. Cannon, Gospel Truth, comp. Jerreld L. Newquist [Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1957], pp. 137-38.) How Satan became an enemy of God is made known in the Book of Moses. Satan's actions in the premortal council when the plan of salvation was presented and adopted by the followers of God, and his rebellion, are there revealed. (Moses 4:1-4.) Elder James E. Talmage, an apostle of this dispensation, wrote the following about Satan: We have had occasion to refer frequently to the author of evil among men. This is Satan [Job 1:6-22; 2:1-7; Zech. 3:1-2], the adversary or opponent of the Lord, the chief of evil spints, called also the Devil [Matt. 4:5, 8, 11; 1 Peter 5:8], Beelzebub [Matt. 12:24], or the Prince of Devils, Perdition [D&C 76:26], and Belial [2 Cor. 6:15]. The Lesson Department figurative appelations dragon and serpent are applied to Satan when reference is made to his fall [Rev. 12:9; 20:2]. We learn from the revealed word [D&C 76: 25-27; Isa. 14:12] that Satan was once an angel of light, then known as Lucifer, a Son of the Morning; but his selfish ambition led him to aspire to the glory and power of the Father, to secure which he made the pernicious proposition to redeem the human family by compulsion; and, failing in this purpose, he headed an open rebellion against the Father and the Son, drawing a third of the hosts of heaven into his impious league. [D&C 29:36-37; Moses 4:3-7; Abr. 3:27-28; Jesus the Christ, pp. 8-9; Rev. 12:4.] (James E. Talmage, Articles of Faith {Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1968], p. 62.) SATAN'S WORK A summary of Satan's work is given to Moses by the Lord, as follows: And he became Satan, yea, even the devil, the father of all lies, to deceive and to blind men, and to lead them captive at his will, even as many as would not hearken unto my voice. (Moses 4:4.) Evil, that which is morally bad or wrong and wicked, comes from the devil, whereas good, virtue, and truth, come from God. (Al. 5:40-42; Eth. 4:12; Moro. 10:18; 2 Ne. 2:18.) Satan is aided in his deceitful practices by legions of evil spirits, in fact, one-third of the premortal hosts of men. Without attempting to give all of the activities of these evil beings, perhaps the following will help one to recognize the extent and universality of the wickedness of which they are capable. In addition to being the father of lies and an enemy of all righteousness, he tempts men not to pray (2 Ne. 32:8), to lie (D&C 10:25-26), to contend 

845 November 1970

 with each other (3 Ne. 11:29; Moro. 9:3), to murder each other and kill the prophets (Eth. 8:25), and to war with each other (1 Ne. 12:19). He goes forth deceiving the nations, ''to and fro in the earth, seeking to destroy the souls of men." (D&C 52:14; 10:27.) By blinding men's eyes and hardening their hearts, he leads them carefully that they may lose their souls. (1 Ne. 12:17.) What are some of the vices which accomplish this end? Pride, power-seeking, riches, and the vain things of the world are only a few. (3 Ne. 6:15.) These and other vices influence men to seek after harlots, to be angry at the words of the prophets. (Al. 39:11; 2 Ne. 33:5.) Question for Discussion How may pride, power-seeking, riches, or other vain things of the world tend to destroy the souls of men? SATAN'S MISERY The key to understanding the misery of Satan and his cohorts is his opposition to the Eternal Father and to His Only Begotten Son. Mormon defined charity as the pure love of Christ. (Moro. 7:47.) Feeling no love for God and Christ, the devils have ceased to love one another. Hatred, malice, and revenge have replaced love, resulting in unhappiness, wretchedness, and misery. Because there is no love in them, they do not promote the welfare of others. Hatred of good urges them to seek the unhappiness of others and thus their torment is complete. 846 SATAN'S POWERS ARE LIMITED The fallen spirits who tempt mankind "Have their bounds, limits, and laws by which they are governed or controlled," said the Prophet JosephSmith. (Joseph Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, comp. Joseph Fielding Smith [Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1938], p. 208; D&C 121:4.) We know, for example, that the devil cannot tempt little children. (D&C 29: 47.) The Lord has said that the devil tempts men that they may be agents unto themselves, and thus they may know the bitter from the sweet. (D&C 29:39.) In order for man to receive the test of faith required of those who shall enter into God's salvation, the means to determine faithfulness to laws and commandments became a part of the eternal plan. Consequently, the principles upon which earthlife is set up are in harmony with the divine purpose. None may feel secure in the idea that Satan is to blame for one's sins, however. The Prophet said: "The devil could not compel mankind to do evil; all was voluntary." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 187.) He further stated that many blame their own evils upon the devil, but if this were the cause of all our wickedness, then men could not be condemned. Class Discussion "We believe that men will be punished for their own sins, and not for Adam's transgression." (Article of Faith 2.) THE DEVIL'S POWER OVER CAIN Following the transgression, Adam and Eve taught their children righteousness, but Satan came amongst their children, saying: I am also a son of God; and he commanded them, saying: Believe it not; and they believed it not, and they loved Satan more than God. And men began from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish. (Moses 5:12-13.) The record then states that Cain and Abel were born. (Moses 5:16-17.) "And Cain loved Satan more than God." (Moses 5:18.) Cain's offering to the Lord, commanded by Satan, was rejected by the Lord, but Abel's was accepted. The promise was given to Cain that if he did well, he would be accepted, otherwise, he would become Satan's. (Moses 5: 18-23.) Prophetically, Cain is told that the abomination of lies, secret combinations, and murder, would be in future times "had from Cain." (Moses 5:25.) Cain "rejected the greater counsel which was had from God." (Moses 5:25. Joseph Fielding Smith, The Way to Perfection [6th ed.; Salt Lake City: Genealogical Society of Utah, 1946], p. 98.) Secret combinations and works of darkness continued from this time. Lamech's sin was the slaying of Irad, son of Enoch, not for gain, but "he slew him for the oath's sake." (Moses 5:49-51.) The spread of the works of darkness seemed to be rapid, for God cursed the men who did not hearken unto his voice. (Moses 5:52-57.) These secret combinations continued because Satan had great hold on the hearts Lesson Department of men, resulting in wars, and "a man's hand was against his own brother, in administering death, because of secret works, seeking for power." (Moses 6:15.) Two great civilizations upon the ancient American continent were also destroyed because of the power of the devil and the wickedness of men. And they were kept up by the power of the devil to administer these oaths unto the people, to keep them in darkness, to help such as sought power to gain power, and to murder, and to plunder, and to lie, and to commit all manner of wickedness and whoredoms. (Eth. 8:15-16.) The historian Moroni testified that these abominations caused the destruction of the Jaredites, who preceded Lehi's colony on the American Continent, and also the destruction of the Nephites.(Eth.8:21-23.) Satan would seek through secret combination to "overthrow the freedom of all lands, nations, and countries." (Eth. 8:25.) LATTER-DAY CONDITIONS Nephi, a Book of Mormon prophet, saw latter-day conditions as they exist today. Some of those conditions are: denial of miracles; contention among churches; teaching that sins will be forgiven by God, so lie a little, and cheat; the teachings of men rather than the Lord's teachings being preferred; and being angry with God. (2 Ne. 28:1-20.) Belief in the existence of the devil has waned over the years until verbally and by actions a great many have fulfilled Nephi's knowledge of our times—"there is no hell I am-no devil, for 

847 November 1970

 there is none." (2 Ne. 28:22.) And thus, the devil, a real, living spirit-being, "grasps them with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance," awaiting the judgment of God. (2 Ne. 28:22-23.) Nephi knew that some who live in Zion would exclaim: "All is well!" There would also be those who would follow the teachings of men and reject the revelations of God. (2 Ne. 28:25-30.) Of all of these, the following is given: Cursed is he that putteth his trust in man, or maketh flesh his arm, or shall hearken unto the precepts of men, save their precepts shall be given by the power of the Holy Ghost. (2 Ne. 28:31.) AIDS TO PREVENT DECEPTION The devil and his spirit followers are attempting to lead men away from the truth, even to the denial of Satan's existence. It is not necessary for the devil literally to take possession of a mortal being's body, as he has done on numerous occasions; in most instances the means of deception are more subtle. He "leadeth them away carefully down to hell." (2 Ne. 28:21.) "And others will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal security Others he flattereth away he whispereth in their ears." (2 Ne. 28:21-22.) Satan's methods are clever and deceitful, even to planting a few false ideas about fundamental truths amidst all the truth one might believe, for the false notions could prevent a person from becoming a true disciple of the Lord. (Orson Pratt, Journal of Discourses, 13:73 [hereafter referred to as JD].) What means 848 has the Lord placed in his gospel to prevent his saints from being deceived? Among the many truths the Lord has revealed in this dispensation, the following are appropriate to this lesson. First, acquire a testimony that Joseph Smith is a prophet, to whom the Lord revealed eternal truth, the truth that saves in this life and in the eternities to come. (See Spiritual Living lessons in the Relief Society Magazine, October - December 1969, January 1970.) Second, know that the gospel of Jesus Christ was given to the Prophets Adam, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, and Moses in the beginning and is eternal. If we are to be strengthened against the deceptions of Satan, we must recognize that he is a real personage. Third, acquire knowledge of gospel teachings that they may be a guide in discerning truth from error. Joseph Smith said: "As far as we degenerate from God, we descend to the devil and lose knowledge, and without knowledge we cannot be saved." (Joseph Smith, History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1957], 4:588 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) Fourth, follow the prophets and apostles and the standard works of the Church, to dissolve conflicts between the ideas of men on what to believe or how to live. (D&C 52:9, 36.) In an epistle of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles in 1839, the following is given: Be careful that you teach not for the word of God the commandments of men, nor the doctrines of men, nor the ordinances of men, inasmuch as you are God's messengers. Study the word of God, and preach it and not your opinions, for no man's opinion is worth astraw. Advance no principle but what you can prove, for one scriptural proof is worth ten thousand opinions. (DHC 3:395-396.) Fifth, hold fast to the words of the First Presidency and the apostles, prophets, seers, and revelators. (D&C 124:45-46.) Seek present knowledge to combat the evils of the day by knowing what counsel the brethren give today. The principle of continuous revelation is with this Church to guide and direct the destinies of this people. Sixth, live so that the Holy Ghost may be a guide and a direction in your life. One must seek for the gifts of the Holy Ghost to avoid deception. (D&C 46:7-10.) Close observance of the commandments maintains the companionship of the Spirit. (D&C 1:31-33.) Class Discussion Evaluate the foregoing six points as aids in preventing the deception of Satan. SUMMARY The Book of Moses in the Pear] of Great Price substantiates the truth that Satan was on the earth in the beginning and that he is the being who has sought to destroy the gospel of Jesus Christ and its influence among men. By the deletion of the foregoing fact from the early books of the Bible, Satan has caused people to stumble and to reject the principle of revelation from God in that early Lesson Department period. From the Book of Moses, however, we learn that Satan is areal spirit-person and the creator of evils that have continued to place men in his power. Regardless of the theories of men relative to Satan's nonexistence, the world today demonstrates that his power is real. The counterfeit is always present when the truth is revealed. With the loss of revelation from God, men have sought revelation from mystic sources, from spiritualists, and other forms of communicating with the other side of the veil. President Brigham Young said it was revealed to him "that in proportion to the spread of the Gospel among the nations of the earth, so would the power of Satan rise." (JD 13:280.) How, then, may the saint judge between the false and the true idea? Mormon has given this standard: But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ, and deny him, and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil; for after this manner doth the devil work, for he persuadeth no man to do good, no, not one; neither do his angels; neither do they who subject themselves unto him. (Moro. 7:17.) President Joseph Fielding Smith gave the following key to truth: If members of the Church would place more confidence in the word of the Lord and less confidence in the theories of men, they would be better off. I will give you a key for your guidance. Any doctrine, whether it comes in the name of religion, science, philosophy, or whatever it may be, that is in conflict with the revelations of the Lord that have been accepted by the Churchas coming from the Lord, will fail. It may appear to be very plausible; it may be put before you in such a way that you cannot answer it, it may 

849 November 1970

 appear to be established by evidence that cannot be controverted, but all you need do is to bide your time. Time will level all things. (The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine, October 1930, 21: 155.) President HeberC. Kimball gave the following sage advice: If we permit the devil to have power over us, and we are seduced by him, and we crouch down under his power, then he will have dominion over us. Upon the same principle, we let sin have power over us, but it has no power over us unless we subject ourselves to it. (JD 1:204.) The gospel of Jesus Christ projects the happiness that may be ours in this life and the joys of eternity, if we reject Satan and choose that righteousness which will lead us to eternal life. Finally, the counsel of Lehi to his sons is most pertinent: And now, my sons, I would that ye should look to the great Mediator, and hearken unto his great commandments; and be faithful unto his words, and choose eternal life, according to the will of his Holy Spirit. (2 Ne. 2:28.)