	MENTOR PLAINS, LAKE Co., OHIO,
						Sept. 28, 1887.
	*	*	*	Once more I was rejoiced
to hear from home—a place from which I
have been absent nearly eleven months.
How fast the time has sped away. Here
we are again on the threshold of hoary
winter when it seems as if we had just
emerged from it. And such, too, is life;
we are frosted with age ere childhood's
flowers have barely withered, and ere we
lose sight of the cradle we are approaching
the grave. Short indeed is life. Should
we not indeed put it to its best use? How
illy can we afford to squander any of the
golden moments now in our possession and
now in oblivion—gone, gone forever.
	And is not the service of our Father in
heaven the best possible use to which our
time, talents, and possessions can be applied?
Yea, verily. He alone can reward and pun-
ish in eternity—He alone can save or de-
stroy our souls forever—He alone it was who
created us body and spirit, and placed us
here to work out our salvation with fear
and trembling, and he alone it is to whom
all is due, both now and forever—Glory be
to God in the hightest. Amen!

[Column 2]
	I do not know what made me write that
strain, but at times my feelings overflow in
that manner and I long to pour out my
gratitude to the Lord—if I pray it is so, or
if I chance to have my pen I transmit my
thoughts to paper. Who will blame me?
No one whose opinion I care for. The true
Saint can sympathize with such sentiments,
for they swell in the breast of every true
and honest heart. My mother, you are one
of these, and I care more for your good will
than for an army of those scoffers, who
make light of sacred things, so high above
them as to be beyond the reach of their
comprehension.
	How pitiable is their state! Not only are
they without the blessings which flow from
the Holy Spirit in this life, but hereafter
they can lay no claim to the rewards which
await the righteous. Who would be a skep-
tic? Not I; thank God, I know that my
Redeemer liveth. I know I am one of his
flock, poor, weak and erring as I am. I
know he can forgive and does; I know he
can save and will. Never let it come from
my lips that I am independent of his help
and unsupported by his bounty. Rather
let me die now and pass into eternity half
purified, than live to damn my soul with
the curse of infidelity—to turn from the
truth, like swine again to the mire, and de-
ny the holy commandment delivered to me.
No, let me live on in my holy faith, still
hoping, still praying for an increase of the
Spirit, to guide me in the paths of truth
to show me my duty and give me strength
to perform it, that I, after a faithful, hum-
ble, useful life in the service of God on
earth, may mount the steps which lead to
the third estate and thence to a kingdom of
glory in the celestial mansions above. May
the Lord grant it to all of those who call
themselves and who live Latter-day Saints,
in Jesus name. Amen.
	*	*	*	*	*	*
	Remember me to all the children; their
absent brother sends love to all of them—
enough for both houses, whose inmates are
all dear to me. I own no half brothers and
sisters, we are all one family.
	I have been here in Mentor three weeks,
and a most pleasant visit has been my re-
ward during the whole time. Yesterday
we all attended the Fair in Painesville. I
have done no public preaching recently, but
my presence and visits have removed much
prejudice from the minds of these folks
and the neighbors. I am treated well and
welcomed by everybody now, but if I had 
come unacquainted and preached publicly to
the people they would have given me the
cold shoulder. There is more than one
way to preach the gospel, and I always re-
member the words of counsel given by 
Brother Woodruff to the departing mission-
aries, when we were set apart—"Seek to
gain the confidence of the people in divers
ways; live up to your religion in the true
spirit thereof; go into the fields and work
with the farmers and gain good will. It
does not consist merely in going over a vast
area of country; stay in one place and do
as much good as you can in that place
before moving, etc."
	I am now helping cousin cut grain, etc.,
and am much esteemed by the whole fam-
ily, who entreat me not to leave, or if so to
return soon, and in many ways exhibit
genuine affection for me, notwithstanding
my earnest and open defense of Mormon-
ism, advocacy of Polygamy, etc., which
they hold in abhorrence. I sha'n't knuckle
under to my best friends on these points.
I'm a full-blooded "Mormon," and don't
care who knows it.
		Your affectionate son.


