HOME AFFAIRS.

	SILK.—The Deseret Silk Association met at
the Fireman's Hall according to appointment,
Friday, Oct. 5, Vice-President Mrs. M. I.
Horne presiding.
	Mrs. Horne was pleased to meet with the
Association and to see the interest that was
manifested in this branch of home industry.
She had done her best while travelling through
the settlements in showing the people the ne-
cessity of becoming self-sustaining in all
things. She advised the brethren to plant out
trees and the sisters to raise silk, as they had
been called to that mission by our late beloved
President Brigham Young.
	Mr. C. Swenson, of Pleasant Grove said he
had been very successful in silk-raising and
felt greatly encouraged. He thought next
year there would be a great interest taken in
this branch of home industry. Every family
that could get the trees ought to raise some
cocoons, especially the farmers.
	Mr. W. Smith of Bountiful, said he would
like very much to see the machinery here to 
work up the silk when it was raised; and thus
find employment for children; he had planted
out two hundred trees and a great many cut-
tings. The cuttings he had buried in the
ground had done the best. They should be
planted about eight inches deep.
	Meeting adjourned un[-]il the first Friday in
November, at 3 p. m.
					R. SIMPSON, Secretary.

	THE LOGAN Temple.—The ceremonies of
laying the corner stone of the Logan Temple,
took place on Monday, Sept. 17, and was of a
most impressive character. President John
Taylor with several of the Twelve Apostles,
Counselor D. H. Wells, several Presidents of
Seventies also of High Priests, Presiding Bish-
op, Edward Hunter and his counselors and
clerk, and Presidency of the Salt Lake Stake
of Zion were present. There were also many
of the authorities of Weber and Box Elder
Stakes, and the local authorities of Cache
County, and thousands of people were present
to witness the ceremony. There was a band of
music in attendance and the company was
formed in procession according to programme
arranged for the occasion. The south east cor-
ner stone was first laid. This stone was laid
by the Apostles, the south-west which was
next in order was laid by the Presiding Bish-
op, his counselors and the presidents of the
lesser priesthood and Bishops of Stakes. The
north-west corner was laid by the Presidents
of High Priests and the presidents of Logan
and other stakes; the north-east corner stone
was laid by the Presidents of Seventies and
Elders. At each corner the ceremony consist-
ed of singing a hymn, an appropriate address
and prayer of dedication. The dedicatory
prayers were offered by Apostle F. D. Rich-
ards, Elders L. W. Hardy, Moses Thatcher
and Horace S. Eldridge. The Temple will
certainly be a most magnificent edifice when


[Column 1]
completed. The saints in that county are
working energetically to carry out the instruc-
tions of the late President by their united ef-
forts.

	SYNOPSIS OF a meeting of the Young Ladies
Association of the 13th Ward, held July 5th,
1877. After the usual opening exercises and
reading of the minutes, President Mrs. Thom-
as spoke of the fast meetings and the enjoy-
ment she experienced in attending them. The
teaching from the Bishop and his counselors
was excellent. It seems to be the time for
both old and young to ask themselves if they
are living their religion. Spoke of the vote
passed by the Association in regard to evil
speaking, had since attended a meeting where
the speakers had laid this subject pointedly
before the congregation. Hoped the girls
would ever be found in the path of duty.
Mrs. Zina Y. Williams accepted the position
of 1st Counselor; spoke of the Young Ladies
meetings in Brigham City, and other places
that she had attended while absent. Thought
the Saints were trying to live their religion,
spoke of the trials that would await those who
are earnest in their work; but it will strength-
en us to remember that every time we bind
Satan from our hearts we are triumphing over
wrong and taking one step in the right way;
spoke of the votes we pass from time to time;
it is a most solemn thing to covenant with the
Father, and it will be to our own grief and con-
demnation if we do not keep them faithfully.
Spoke of the homemade hats etc. Counselors
Misses Kate, Annie and May Wells, Miss Lucy
Stringham and Mrs. Fannie Thatcher each
spoke for a short time, after which Sisters Sad-
dler, Bathsheba W. Smith, and M. P. Young,
all bore good testimonies and spoke on the
principles of the Gospel. President Mrs.
Thomas spoke of the temple donations, men-
tioned that twelve dollars and forty cents had
been handed in for the Temple during this
quarter; encouraged the girls to continue with
it. Other remarks were made and the meet-
ing adjourned for one week by singing "Praise
God," and benediction by Mrs. M. P. Young.

	THE SEMI Annual Conference which has
just past had something peculiarly character-
istic in its proceedings that makes it an epoch
in the history of this church. The manner of
voting so entirely new to this people was a 
grand and imposing spectacle in itself and cal-
culated to inspire awe and solemnity in the
hearts of all who witnessed it, and it carried
with it a power that was electrifying in its ef-
fect upon the vast congregation. Nothing
could be more thoroughly impressive, and
none present will ever forget the spirit of the
time and place that hovered over and around
them on that occasion. The perfect union
manifested was in itself something calculated
to give the highest tone of elevation to the
whole assembly.
	Elder George Q. Cannon presented the au-
thorities of the Church; and each quorum of
the Priesthood in their respective order, and af-
terwards the entire congregation voted by ris-
ing simultaneously to their feet at the same
time lifting their right hand. President John
Taylor was sustained as President of the
Twelve Apostles, and of the Presidency of the
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. The Twelve Apostles as the presiding
quorum and authority of the Church, and as
Prophets, Seers and Revelators. President
John Taylor was also sustained as Trustee-in-
Trust with the Twelve Apostles, their Coun-
selors, and Presiding Bishop Edward Hunter
and his Counselors.

[Column 2]
	The congregation is estimated to have been
from 12,000 to 14,000 in numbers, and yet the
most excellent order prevailed. The preach-
ing praying and music during the entire Con-
ference was of the most exalted character and
tone. It really seems as if everything had
been remembered, and the people had receiv-
ed a fulness of blessings. The brethren of the
Twelve in their manifold blessings did not for-
get the sisters who labor as co-workers in as-
sisting to build up Zion; and the remembrance
of their labors given them at the Conference
will call forth from them a renewal of prayers
and blessings upon the brethren who hold the
keys of the Priesthood and its administration
in Zion.

