EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I have just returned from a most enjoya-
ble affair, and thinking a few items might
interest you, I herewith send the same.
You must know the “cause,” and then you
will understand the “effect.” The Presi-
dent of the Relief Society noticed an edi-
torial in your paper recently recommend-
ing having the children glean. The time
was short, and it being the first time such 
a thing was tried in this place, very little
else but a commencement, or as it were a
foundation laid to improve and build on in
years to come, was expected to be accom-
plished. The President of the Relief So-
ciety, Mrs. Greenhalch, (a most estimable
lady,) and the President of the Young La-
dies Mutual Improvement Association (who
is also an excellent lady,) called a meeting.
It would be tiresome to go into other de-
tails, but the result was the children suc-
ceeded in saving about two and a half bush-
els of grain, after it was threshed. The
ladies gave the juvenile gleaners a party,
the President of the Association opened
her house for the children, and with the
officers of the Relief Society they all gath-
ered up their baskets of picnic and assem-
bled this afternoon at Mrs. Dunn’s. Yours
Truly enjoyed the honor of being an invi-
ted guest. I found the little girls down in
the willows close to the house playing with
great glee. They escorted me up to the
house, where I found a cosy bevy of good
sisters. My ears were soon saluted with
the pleasant sound ot children’s voices in
the next room, singing Sunday School
songs. They sang very sweetly. Miss
Mary Greenhalch led the singers in a very
pretty way keeping excellent time. The
songs were “Gathering home,” “We meet
again," "The Work," “Gay and happy;”
“All hands study;” the two former and the 
last one pleased me most. Some pleasant
games were played, after which supper was
announced. Abundance of everything good
was provided, and to gaze on that table
groaning with luxuries, it was hard to be-
lieve the general cry of “hard times."
Rice puddings in large pans, all kinds of
cakes and pies, and best of all a monstrous.
chicken pie. Oh Mrs. Editor if you could
only have tasted that pie, your respect,
like mine, would have been increased for
the contributor thereof. Blessed be the
woman who invented chicken-pies. The
children separated with light hearts and
happy faces. Great credit is due to Mrs. 
Dunn whose head heart and hands were
exercised to the utmost to make every-
thing connected with the affair a success.
Also to Mrs. Greenhalch and Mrs. Bee. It
was altogether a very pleasant and happy
affair.
		Yours,
				S. Y. D.


A LEAKING LAKE.—The theory that 
there are subterranean connections between
the numerous lakes in Central New York
has been often advanced. For years there 
has been more or less loss of water in the 
limestone sinks along the bed of the Ske-
neateles outlet, below Long Bridge, and the
Skeneateles Iron Works. Hart Lot Paper
Mill bus been unable to run steadily on ac-
count of failure of water; a recent scientific
examination, shows that at least one-third
of the volume of water is swallowed up in
the vicinity of the rolling-mill dam, where
there is a largo whirlepool.


