R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Sept. 29, was one of great inter-
est to all who have the welfare of Zion at
heart. The meeting was presided over by
Counselor Zina D. Young.  The minutes
from the various wards were interesting,
and plainly showed that the young ladies
are making good use of their opportunities
for improvement.  Mrs. Zina D. Young and
Miss E. R. Snow made some very appro-
priate remarks on home industries and the
practical work of the societies.  President
John Taylor addressed the sisters in a most
edifying and encouraging manner, gave
some items of his acquaintance with the
Relief Society in Nauvoo, stated that he
was present at its organization by Joseph
Smith the prophet.  Said he had watched
with interest the labors of the sisters in the
good cause, and desired their prosperity in
the benevolent work they were doing.
Prayed the Lord to bless and aid them in
all their enterprises.  Said many things
calculated to comfort and build them np.
	Elder Wilford Woodruff gave the sisters
similar counsel, and exhorted them to store
up wheat and raise silk, and persevere in
the noble work they were doing, for he felt
they were co-workers with the brethren in
helping to establish the kingdom of God.
He gave them great encouragement, and
blessed them and asked God to bless them,
&c.
	Counselor D. H. Wells gave much good
advice and many wise suggestions in regard
to the efforts that were being made by the
sisters to benefit each other and the
young people, that they might fill up their
days in usefulness, with honor to them-
selves and the church and kingdom of God.
	Elder Angus M. Cannon made a few clos-
ing remarks very applicable to the time
and place, and very politely asked the sis-
ters to use their influence practically by
encouraging their hnsbands, fathers and
brothers to come forward and assist in put-
ting up the New Tabernacle. Bishop
Thomas Taylor dismissed with prayer. The
meeting was one which left a good impres-
sion, and carried to the hearts of the sisters
a heavenly influence.  The Spirit of God
was there, bearing witness to all, both
speakers and hearers.

 Speceial Meeting of the Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Association of the
First Ward, held in the schoolhouse Sept.
26th, 1877. Usual opening exercises.
Minutes read and accepted.
	By invitation of President Mrs. Sarah
Graham, Mrs. Zina D. Young then made
Some remarks, of which the following is
only a synopis: “We have heard some ex-
cellent sermons from the young ladies in
the minutes, which causes our hearts to re-
joice, particularly as they come from our
youth. We have here the elements of truth
and righteousness, to follow in the track of
our leaders and carry on the work that they
have begun.  And they will carry it on
with greater rapidity than we have done,
for they have not the traditions to contend
with that we had.  When I look on the
faces of my brethren and sisters since the
death of President Young, I think, How
do we feel? I believe we feel ten times
stronger than we did before he died. I
have heard him say “Joseph Smith’s testi-
mony had far greater effect after his death
than it ever had before, and so will mine;”
and I thought to myself, Oh, will I live to
see him die?  Sisters, it is for us to be
wide awake to our duties.  The kingdom
will roll on, and we have nothing to fear
but our own imperfections.  I do not wish
to take up more time, for there are many
here whom we would like to hear from, but
I pray God to bless you, and especially the
youth. May God bless yon and eudow you
with energy and determination to act for
yourselves in regard to dressing plainly and
comfortably. May you have many of these
re-unions, and be comforted and strength-
ened is my prayer in the name of Jesus."
	Synopsis of Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith’s
remarks: "I feel happy to meet with the
sisters in this ward, and I feel very much
pleased to think that the young ladies are
stepping forward, learning the principles of
the gospel, reading and studying that they
may become wise and great.  I know that
this is the kingdom of God.  We should
not be ashamed of our religion, but live it
so that we will be prepared when we are
called to go hence.  I exhort you to attend
your meetings and Sabbath schools, and
never neglect your prayers.”
	Mrs. E. B. Wells: “I love my religion
better than anything else on the earth, and
I desire to do my duty and walk by the
Spirit of God at all times.  I have had some
idea of the public work of women since
my childhood, and I sometimes feel that I
cannot do half enough.  Some think we
have not done much in our associations; but
in looking back I think we have accom-
plished considerable.  The sectarian world
and their ministers teach people how to die;
but we want to learn how to live, that we
may be prepared to dwell with angels and
holy beings; and if we do not live lives of
purity, we will not receive the reward that
we otherwise would.  This Latter-day work
in time will devolve upon the young, and
if they continue in these associations, they
will be more competent to assist than
we were.” Mrs. Wells then bore a strong tes-
timony upon plural marriage. “I believe as
far as my knowledge of these associations
extends, that the young ladies are doing
very well; that they are learning the prin-
ciples of the gospel, learning to preserve
their health, how to become good mothers,
and how to take care of their children; and
the object of these associations is to develop
the young ladies, spiritually, temporally,
physically and morally." Mrs. Wells also
made other excellent remarks on the Wo-
MAN'S EXPONENT, and Church Libraries,
and expressed a very great interest in the
young.
	Miss E. R. Snow; “I always feel happy to
meet with my sisters; today I feel a pecu-
liar sweetness and heavenly influence. What
we have heard is calculated to inspire us to
action. The world has a great deal of teach-
ing and preaching done, but we want to
act, for by our acts we will be judged.  It
has been suggested here that we have a
great deal to do, and those who are alive to
their religion know that there is much to
do. The sisters have weighty duties placed
upon them, and duties that cannot be ac-
complished singly, but require a unity of
heart and feeling.  We must be united as
Jesus and his disciples were, and must get
the Holy Ghost, the Comforter that Jesus
spoke of, to help us.  Jesus said, “When I
go away I will send the Comforter, to teach
you what to do and how to act."  The mis-
sion that has been placed upon the sisters
requires a constant effort, and it requires
us to meet often together. “And they
that feared the Lord met often together
and they spoke one to another of the good
ness of God; and they shall be mine when
I number up my jewels, saith the Lord."
When President Young first called upon
us to organize the young girls, many good
girls did not know that the gospel was true;
now they meet together and get the Spirit
of God, and we have heard some of the
effects, today, in the minutes.  Our duties
are numerous.  For instance, there is the
silk business; President Young has spent
thousands of dollars in trying to lead out
the people in that industry, and now he has
placed the mission on the sisters.  The first
year that he set foot on this soil he saw
that there was silk in the elements, and I
want to inspire the young sisters with the
importance of this mission.  We are also
storing up grain for a day of famine. A
famine is certainly coming and we are called
upon to prepare for it.  Pres. Young said
as soon as he gave the mission to the sis-
ters, that they took hold of it; this is a
compliment to us, and don’t you think he
will bear that testimony in the courts above?
Yes, he will.  There is another item that I
wish to mention.  At a meeting held in
the Council House the expressed wishes of
Pres. Young were to change the name of
these associations from Retrenchment As-
sociations to Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions, and I would be pleased if you would
take a vote here on that, to show your will-
ingness to carry out the instructions of Pres.
Young.”
	It was then unanimously carried that the
name of our Association be changed from
Young ladies’ Retrenchment Association to
Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation.
			(To be continued.)


