REMINESCENSES.

 Incidents of my girlhood days, also of
later years rush o’er my memory to-day.
The innocent school-girl romp, the merry
Christmas, the happy New Year, the gay
party, and above all the joyous sleighride,
snugly wrapped in warm robes and furs,
cosily seated by the side of a respected
schoolmate, or perchance, one dearer, with
other seats similarly occupied. The clatter
of the horses hoofs sounding on the frozen
night air. The earth draped in robes of
dazzling whiteness, glittering and spark-
ling in the silvery moonbeans. While the
bright stars looked approvingly down as we
dashed over the frozen snow, halting ever
and anon, at some wayside inn to partake
of refreshments, or warm our tingling ears.
Those were happy, fleeting days spent with
the dear friends of my youth. But where
now are the friends, “echo answers where?”

	Where are the comrades of my youth
		Whose voices were so gay,
	Whose hearts were pure and motives good,
		In childhood's happy day?


All who survive, tread the thorny path
of life in different directions, but all I think
are aiming to attain the high prize which
is in Christ Jesus. Ere the springtime of
my life had passed, there came a joyous,
solemn day, that on which I entered upon
the duties of wifehood. And ere long,
came sweet flowers, fresh from heaven to
cheer our hearts and firesides. As their
numbers increased, it was my joy to rear
them in the path of virtue and truth. And
when they in time have started on the
road that have been traveled for untold
ages, how thankful I have felt that I have
been counted worthy to be instrumental in
bringing forth the souls of men to help
build up the kingdom of God upon the
earth.
	Though the springtime and summer of
my life have passed, and the hand of time
is sprinkling my hair plentifully with sil-
ver, and chilly autumn is fast approaching;
though the vivacity and buoyancy of my
youth have gone, yet the sunshine has not
gone out of my heart. A calmer, holier
joy has settled down upon my life. Al-
though sorrows have and yet may come, I
trust in the future as in the past, to Divine
assistance, to lead us safely through.
And when this earthly pilgrimage is ended,
The cares, and sorrows, hopes and fears of life are oe'r.
May childhood's joys and earthly ties be blended,
With glory, joy, and life eternal, on the other shore.
