NOTES AND NEWS.

	ANNIE BESANT, the English radical, is
young and handsome, and a natural orator.
Her lectures to working people are densely
crowded, and it is said we have no woman
in America equal to her in force, genius and
culture combined.—Philadelphia Sunday
Press.

	MISS EMILY Faithful, we are told, has
just begun the publication of a new weekly
journal, called the West London "Express."
She is its editor, and has many well-known
assistants in the literary, scientific and dra-
matic departments. It is sold for the small
price of a penny. It is said to be an inde-
pendent family newspaper, not represent-
ing, especially, the interests of the Woman
Suffrage party.—Ex.

	MRS. ISABELLA B. Hooker, in her call for
the eighth annual meeting of the Connecti-
cut Woman Suffrage Association, specifies
among subjects for discussion the Labor
question, to occupy the morning session.
We heartily approve of this arrangement.
The labor question has arrived at such gi-
gantic proportions that it presses itself upon
the attention of all, and next to that of
woman suffrage is the greatest question of
the day, and the two are destined yet to
color the political atmosphere until an equi-
librium of forces is brought about, which
shall equably adjust the demands of both.
—Ballot Box.

	CONVENTIONS ARE being held by women
in the cause of Universal Suffrage in many
of the states and territories, to arouse an
interest in the cause, and urge upon wo-
men everywhere the necessity of the ballot.
The plan now is to present as many names
to Congress during the next session as pos-
sible, that they may fully realize the nec-
essity of making an amendment to the
Constitution, that will prohibit the several
states from disfranchising women.

Constitution of the National Woman Suffrage
				Association.

	ARTICLE 1.—This organization shall be
called the National Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation.
	ARTICLE 2.—The object of this Associa-
tion shall be to secure NATIONAL protection
for women citizens in the exercise of their
right to vote.
	ARTICLE 3.—All citizens of the United
States subscribing to this Constitution, and
contributing not less than one dollar annu-
ally, shall be considered members of the
Association, with the right to participate in
its deliberations.
	ARTICLE 4.—The officers of this Asso-
ciation shall be a President, a Vice Presi-
dent from each of the States and Territories,
Corresponding and Recording Secretaries, a
Treasurer, an Executive Committee of not
less than five, and an Advisory Committee
consisting of one person from each State
and Territory.
	ARTICLE 5.—All Woman Suffrage Socie-
ties throughout the country shall be wel-
comed as auxiliaries; and their accredited
officers or duly appointed representatives
shall be recognized as members of the Na-
tional Association.


