WOMAN FOR OFFICE.

	In the great cry against Woman's Rights,
the greatest fear of some men seems to be
that women might obtain some office that is
now held by man. Have no fear on that
score, brethren. Among all my female ac-
quaintances I do not know of one woman
who wishes to hold the office of sheriff;
but many of my male acquaintances have
made themselves unhappy because their
friends did not see fit to elect them sheriff,
or at least to nominate them for that office.
I know of no woman who wishes to be State
representative, but I know of a number of
men who feel chagrined and indignant be-
cause their friends thought them unfit to
be legislators, and voted for the "other
man." Who knows a woman who would
be willing to go before a convention for any
mere office of state or nation? And who
does not know that there are other things
for women to think about? No, no, it is
not the desire to hold office (although there
are many offices that women might hold
without losing the respect that is accorded
to woman) that engages so many female
minds, but the right to hold their own
children, and to hold what they earn by
the sweat of their brow, and the right to
say whether a man, or a mere apology,
should sit in the legislative halls and make


the laws whereby they are governed. In
the days of slavery it was the slave mother
and not the slave father that held the child.
The slave has been emancipated; given the
right to vote, and made custodian (so to
speak) of his wife, her earnings and her
children. While the uneducated and super-
stitious male negro is made of as much im-
portance at the ballot-box as the president
of the United States, woman, with the
companionship of books and papers, is
deemed unfit to vote. Such is the law of
our nation; we make no war upon that law.
We only wish to suggest to man that he
pause upon his road of usefulness, and con-
sider how much (or rather how little) he
would have accomplished had it not been
for the companionship and counsel of wo-
man. Where is the man noted for his wis-
dom and goodness; but will say that "a good
woman made me what I am?" Woman
guides the destinies of man; acknowledge
her worth by recognizing her rights of citi-
zenship.				MRS. E. C. 
	—Woman's Words.


