				BY LUNA S. PECK.

A hawk once courted a little white dove,
With the softest of wings and a voice full of love,
And the hawk—O yes, as other hawks go—
Was a well-enough hawk, for aught that I know.
			But she was a dove,
			And her bright young life
			Had been nurtured in love,
			Away from all strife.

Well, she married the hawk; the groom was delighted,
A feast was prepared, and the friends all invited.
(Does any one think that my story's not true?
He is certainly wrong; the facts are not new.)
			Then he flew to his nest,
			With the dove at his side,
			And soon all the rest.
			Took a squint at the bride:

A hawk for his father, a hawk for his mother,
A hawk for his sister, and one for his brother.
And uncles and aunts there were by the dozens,
And oh, such a number of hawks for his cousins.
			They were greedy and rough,
			A turbulent crew,
			Always ready enough
			To be quarrelsome, too.

To the dove all was strange, but n[-]ver a word
In resentment she gave to the wrangling she heard;
If a thought of her peaceful, far-away nest,
Ever haunted her dreams, or throbbed in her breast,
			No bird ever knew;
			Each hour of her life
			Kind, gentle and true
			Was the hawk's dove-wife.

But the delicate nature too sorely was tried;
With no visible sickness the dove drooped and died;
Then loud was their grief, and the wish all expressed
To call the learned birds and hold an inquest.
			So all the birds came,
			But each shook his head;
			No disease could he name
			Why the dove should lie dead:

'Till wise old owl, with a knowing look,
Stated this: "The case is as clear as a book;
No disease do I find, or accident's shock;
the cause of her death was—too much hawk!
Hawk for her father, and hawk for her mother,
Hawk for her sister and hawk for her brother,
Was more than the delicate bird could bear:
She hath winged her way to a realm more fair!
			She was nurtured a dove;
			Too hard the hawk's life;
			Void of kindness and love—
			Full of harshness and strife,"

And when he had told them, the other birds knew
That this was the cause, and the verdict was true!
—The "Watchman."


[Column 1]
	A YOUNG MISSIONARY TO HIS
