		ELDER JOHN TAYLOR.

	To-day is a solemn day for Israel. We
have before us the body of the man who
has led us for the last thirty-three years.
Thirty-three years ago I was with and wit-
nessed the departure of our first president
Joseph Smith. He passed away under
very different circumstances from those
which have surrounded President Brigham
Young in his last hours. Immured in pris-
on, surrounded with enemies who sought
his life, and attacked by a ruthless mob,
savage and relentless they took away his
life, and he died by the hand and in the
midst of vindictive and blood-thirsty foes,
who in the absence of legal offense, sur-
charged with deadly venomous hate, clam-
ored for his blood.
	President Young, after leading the Church
and buffeting the trials and persecu-
tions to which the Church has ever been
subjected, has at length, in these valleys of
the mountains, after having accomplished
the object of his life and done the work
that has been represented here so truthfully
by our brethren who have spoken, has lain
down to sleep in the midst of a loving and
affectionate family and surrounded by faith-
ful and tried friends; with hosts of associa-
tions that were loving, sympathetic and in-
teresting, who breathed nothing but con-
dolence, kindness and blessings, and through-
out the Territory the people as with one
voice offered up their prayers to the Most
High in behalf of their suffering, dying
president.
	Both of these presidents had the faith
and confidence of the Saints of the Most
High, and the guidance and direction of
the Lord. And the feeling of the people
as exhibited here, the gathering together
of this Priesthood and the Saints that I see
before me to-day, is evidence of the re-
spect and kindness that beat in every heart
and throb through every pulse; and it is
gratifying to know that the same feelings
prevail throughout the length and breadth
of this Territory. As has been said, his
name and fame are known among all peo-
ple, and a knowledge of these events has
spread to the uttermost bounds of the ever-
lasting hills. All nations have heard of it,
and all peoples are interested in these events
that are now surrounding us. Not only us
and them, but the Gods in the eternal
worlds. The former President Joseph
Smith, and this our late President Brigham
Young, meet again face to face in the eter-
nal worlds. Both have triumphed, both
have overcome.
	As has been remarked, the work we are
engaged in is not the work of man. Jo-
seph Smith did not originate it, neither did
Brigham Young, nor the Twelve nor any
mortal man. It emanated from God, he is
its author, his eve is over us, he is watch-
ing every movement and every transaction
that transpires now, and that transpired ever
since the commencement, and will continue
so to do; he will guide the ship to the lat-
ter end. It is He that has been our Grand
Leader; these others now departed have
been our brethren, appointed to lead and
guide us, under his direction in the paths
of life. And although we mourn the loss of
our departed friend, a brother and a presi-
dent, and although the feelings of our
hearts sympathize with his family and
friends, yet at the same time there are
principles greater and grander than any
personal interest, or any individuality asso-
ciated with these matters. It is a heavenly


interest, the building up of Zion the estab-
lishment of the Kingdom of God and the
rolling forth of his purposes upon the earth.
And while Brother Joseph and Brother
Brigham sleep, yet both of them live, and
both of them, as they operated in time,
will operate in eternity in behalf of the
whole of Israel and the consummation of our
Father’s purposes. These are things in
which the Gods are interested; and all the
priesthood, and apostles and prophets and
men of God that have ever breathed, are
also interested with us.
	And it is for us, as Latter-day Saints to
magnify our calling and our priesthood,
honoring our God by performing faithfully
and well the duties devolving upon us, that
as the changing scenes we are anticipating
shall come upon all nations—revolutions suc-
ceeding revolutions, we may have a steady
onward movement, guided by the Lord;
that we may progress and steady affairs
among his people and provide a refuge for
the distressed among the assembling na-
tions; that the light, intelligence and power
of God may shine in our midst, that Zion
may arise and shine, and the glory of God
rest upon her.
	I do not wish to prolong the time; but
felt like making a few remarks. To the
family of President Young I say “God
bless you! The God of heaven comfort
your hearts! May peace flow unto you, and
may you be led in the paths of life, and im-
itate the example of your departed hus-
band, father and friend! And you Latter-
day Saints follow in his footsteps, in the
paths of righteousness. Let us obey all of
God’s laws, and all will be well with us.
We are not alone! God is with us, and he
will continue with us from this time hence-
forth and forever. And while we mourn a
great and good man dead, I see thousands
of staunch and faithful ones around me
and before me who are for Israel, for God
and his kingdom; men who are desirous to
see his will done on earth as angels do it in
heaven.
	That God may bless us all, and lead us in
the paths of life, is my prayer in the name
of Jesus. Amen.—"Deseret News."


