				YOUNG.

	If there ever is an occasion, brethren and
sisters, when words are too feeble to ex-
press the emotions of the human heart, it
is one like the present. This is a time of
mourning, not a time of speaking. Still
we would not be doing justice to our feel-
ings, nor to the memory of our great lead-
er, if we did not give some utterances to
the feelings that oppress our hearts.
	I have never in my life contemplated
the death of President Young with the
calmness that I have since it occurred; and
I have wondered at myself. It is true it
has been exceedingly difficult for me to
control my feelings, to keep from break-
ing down; but there has been a calmness, a
serenity, a peace connected with his death,
his departure from our midst, that I think
all have felt who have come in contact with
him. His departure was like the falling
asleep of a little infant. No tremor, no
contortions; but as peaceful and as quiet,
as if it were indeed the most gentle slum-
ber. I have often heard President Young
speak about death; and when I saw him
depart I felt that the great wish of his
heart had at last been granted unto him.
Naturally he was a man of indomitable
courage, of an unyielding will; and he
could not submit to the conqueror death
without struggling against him. This was
characteristic of his nature. But his natu-
ral feelings, as I have often heard him re-
mark, and I think he has expressed the
same in public several times, were that he
should hail the day of his release from his
mortal existence as the happiest day of his
life. Whenever it should be the good
pleasure of our Father in heaven to call
him hence, he would go, he said with
great pleasure and satisfaction. But as I
have said as long as life remained, as long
as he felt it his duty to remain here, he
would struggle, he would contend for life,
he would not yield; but would endeavor to 
fnlfill the mission which our Father in
heaven assigned unto him. It is only a
few weeks ago when conversing with one
of the Twelve, I remarked that I would be
afraid, if it were not for one thing that
President Young was not going to remain,
long with us. He was so hurried, was so
urged in his feelings concerning the organ-
ization of the people; pressing matters for-
ward, anxious to get the Priesthood organ-
ized and the Stakes everywhere set in or-
der. He released all the Twelve from pre-
siding over local places. Brother C. C.
Rich, Brother Brigham Young, Junr.
Brother Lorenzo Snow and Brother Frank-
lin D. Richards in the North; Brother Or-
son Hyde and Brother Erastus Snow in
the South; all were released from presid-
ing over the Stakes of Zion, and were told
by the President that their mission had a
larger field than a Stake of Zion. He set
the Priesthood in order as it has never be-
fore been since the first organiz[-]tion of the
Church upon the earth. He defined the
duties of the Apostles, he defined the du-
ties of the Seventies, he defined the duties
of the High Priests, the duties of the Eld-
ers and those of the lesser Priesthood, with
plainness and distinction and power—the
power of God—in a way that it is left on
record in such unmistakable language that
no one need err who has the spirit of God
resting down upon him. And when con-
templating the organization of the Chcrch
as it is, we can testify of the goodness of

[Column 2]
our God and we can feel to accord to him
all praise for giving unto us so great and so
good and so exalted a character as our be-
loved Brother Brigham, whose remains
now lie before us. His value has not been
properly estimated by the Latter-day Saints.
There are none of us who will not realize
this more and more in the future. To-day,
now that we have lost him we can exam-
ine our conduct, and the wish will arise
that we had been more obedient, more wil-
ling to observe his counsels and pay him
that respect and reverence which his great
qualities as a leader and prophet deserved.
This we can do, even though we have been
faithful and obedient. The time will come
when the Latter-day Saints will appreciate
him as one of the greatest prophets that
ever lived. I have been much with him.
I looked upon this association as the great-
est privilege of my life, to have heard his
counsels and witness his life as I have.
And in contemplating that life, it seems
to me perfect: In my eyes and to my feel-
ings he was as perfect a man as could be
in mortality. He certainly never uttered
any counsel, or gave any instruction or
taught any doctrine which I did not en-
dorse with all my heart. This I believe to
be the case with thousands upon thousands
of Latter-day Saints, notwithstanding our
laxity in doing the will of God in all things
as we should have done.
	On Tuesday night, as I sat at the head of
his bed and thought of his death, if it
should occur, I recoiled from the contem-
plation of the view. It seemed to me that
he was indispensable. What could we do
without him? He has been the brain, the
eye, the ear, the mouth and hand of the
entire people of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints. From the greatest
details connected with the organization of
this Church down to the smallest minutiae
connected with the work he has left upon
it the impress of his great mind. From
the organization of the Church, and the
construction of Temples; the building of
Tabernacles; the creation of a ProvisionalState government and a Territorial govern-
ment, down to the small matter of direct-
ing the shape of these seats upon which
we sit this day; upon all these things, as
well as upon all the settlements in the Ter-
ritory, the impress of his genius is appar-
ent. Nothing was too small for his mind;
nothing was too large. His mind was of
that character that it could grasp the great-
est subjects, and yet it had the capacity to
descend to the minutest details. This was
evident in all his counsels and associations
with the Saints; he had that power, that
wonderful faculty which God gave him
and with which he was inspired. And
while I was thinking of all this, it seemed
as though we could not spare him, he was
indispensable to this great work. And
while I felt it, it seemed as though a voice
said, "I am God; this is my work; it is I
who build it up and carry it forward; it is
my business to guide my saints." He is
our Father and God; he is the Leader, he
cannot die; he is beyond the shafts of the
adversary. And he will guide and direct
his people, if they will listen to his coun-
sels, from this time forward, until they are
led into his celestial kingdom.

	And that we may remember our great
earthly leader and treasure up his teach-
ings, his counsels and instructions and that
we may follow the glorious example he has
set us in his devotion to the work, in his
self-abnegation in putting away everything
that would interfere with the fulfillment
and perfect performance of his duties, as

[Column 3]
Latter-day Saints, is my prayer in the
name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

