	TO WOMEN'S ORGANIZATIONS INTERESTED
IN STORING GRAIN FOR ZION.—Storing grain is
one of the subjects on which too much cannot
be said at the present time, and to all who are
desirous of promoting the future good and
prosperity of Israel, we would say talk up the
grain question. That women are ridiculed for
trying to save grain for a famine is true, cer-
tainly, ridiculed here at home among the
saints, and by those who profess to believe in
the future fall of Babylon and its attendant
consequences. They think the help of wo-
men too insignificant to effect anything in
this direction. President Young did not think
so, he believed in the financial ability of wo-
men to systematically organize and institute
such enterprises as would ultimately succeed
in producing the greatest results. We have
repeatedly been told that all that women could
do in this respect would be only as a drop in
the bucket.
	This mission of storing grain has been given
to the women of Utah and many of them re-
alize that it is of the greatest importance. We
know that already considerable grain has
been stored and some granaries have been
built, and much is being done in this matter
by women in various localities in this Terri-
tory. In order to regulate and systematize
this MAMMOTH undertaking, it is of course es-
sential that all should have a thorough under-
standing of the subject, and should be well-
posted in all the details pertaining to the work
from time to time. Women who are engaged
and interested in this work should make every
exertion not only to save all the grain possible,
and preserve it from everything that would
injure it in any way, and use all the influence
they can with others to save and make
appropriations or donations to the grain in the
various wards, but they should also acquaint
others with what they are doing, and let a
record be kept of all grain stored for Zion, and
how and when it is thus stored, and in whose
care, and what are the future plans in regard
to adding to it, and taking measures to care-
fully preserve it. This can only be accom-
plished by having a complete account of every-
thing seperate and apart from other items. In
the meeting held in this interest last fall, we
suggested to the Secretaries of the Relief So-
cieties the expediency of having separate books
for grain. If this suggestion has been followed
out, then there will be very little trouble in
making up reports. It must be understood
by all who have ever read the article publish-
ed by President Young's wish, and reviewed
and approved by him before its publication,
that this grain is being stored for Zion; that
no person, or committee, or president of society
has any right to draw out or dispose of any
of it, for any purpose. The design is to secure
as much as possible and garner it carefully, and
when the right time comes to use it, the prop-
er method of disbursement will be revealed to

[Column 3]
those who hold it in trust for Zion, in as plain
and simple a manner as was the counsel to
purchase and store it. We are pleased with
the good reports we hear from time to time al-
though they are not definite, and we desire as
much as it is possible to encourage the Socie-
ties to persevere in this good cause, for we
know by the revelations of ancient and mod-
ern times that famines are inevitable. We al-
so know that if the future is to be judged of by
the past, then there are the times of famine,
setting prophecy one side; there have been
among all peoples and in all countries times of
scarcity, and America is not exempt and even
were such the case, were other countries in-
volved in famine, how glorious it would be to
come to their aid with bread, with the staff of
life. Sisters rather let all of us put some
means into this organization and buy up the
wheat and preserve it, than to spend any trifle
we can spare in that which will be of no last-
ing benefit to either soul or body. Those who
have known hunger in days past should
feel, that a few hundred bins of wheat scat-
tered throughout the territory, would be more
desirable than all the stores of fancy articles
that could be sustained here. The Women of
Utah may justly be proud of the movement
already made in saving grain, It is some-
thing far ahead of the women of the world,
something entirely original with this people,
and is far in advance of any move other women
have yet made. The Lord inspired our late
President to inaugurate this movement, there
is not a shadow of doubt, and if the sisters are
prompt in carrying out this enterprise, the Lord
will aid them, and all good men and women
will reverence them for it, and their enemies
will be confounded.


