							THOMSON'S SEASONS.

	Autumn in the poets nomenclature is de-
fined as the "Daughter of the Year," she car-
ries off the palm with dignity in royal style.
The year has reached its maturity and is re-
ceiving the crown of its glory, the luscious
fruits of vine and tree, the fields of ripened
grain, gathered with the sickle and gleaned
by the reapers, the bundles strewed or stacked,
stretching afar in the distance, gladden the
eye and convey to the soul the idea of abund-
ance. The golden yellow corn in ear, and all
the varieties of the vegetable kingdom, im-
press one with a sense of fulness, of complete-
ness, and seem the similitude of earth's
wreath of victory and rejoicing.
	Autumn even in her triumph is the precurs-
or of doom, of the cold burial of hopes, of all
that was fresh and green and beautiful in the 
grave of stern, hard relentless winter, the
monarch of the year, who rules with icy cold-
ness and crushes the life from out the heart of
the matron whose full summer has ripened
into maturity. Winter bedecks the brow, so
lately crowned with the victor's wreath of
beauty and bloom, with the cold frosted, glit-
tering icicle.

		"The Autnmn's wind swept o'er the hill,
		And winter's breath comes cold and chill."

	Although we must confess to a lingering love
for Spring and Summer, yet Autumn with its
pensive evening twilights, its "melancholy
sadness," its rustle and flutter of dry leaves,
has something peculiarly akin to poetical senti-
ment, and also really seems congenial, and in
sympathy with the "sober realities of life."
This season may well be termed moody in more
respects than one, for it changes almost daily.
Autumn is almost as fickle in November as
Spring is in April, and the mood of persons
hangs on the same equivocal vicissitudes.
	Autumn does seem peculiarly appropriate for
meditation and reflection, the "sear and yellow
leaf," the fading of "the day's sweet light,"
and the gray shadows of the cool and amber
paling moonlight night, infuse their quiet

[Column 2]
beauty into the human soul. Nature has 
groaned, as it were, with the heavy weight of
"corn and oil," and the sheaves of grain are
full to bursting, and the wine gushes with ful-
ness from the press, and the land o'erflows with
the bounty of the harvest of all earth's pro-
ducts. The sky is flaming with its crimson
shades and coloring, and the reflection drapes
the hills and woods with violet and purple shad-
ows. The landscape mellows as the year wanes
and Winter comes apace. There is a lan-
guage in the trees at this peculiar season that
passes all description; it speaks forcibly to those
who possess intuition, or susceptibility to feel
the influence that pervades the atmosphere of
their locality, and seems to diffuse itself into the
very soul of the lover of nature, and pour itself
forth spontaneously in strains and bursts of en-
thusiasm that run parallel to the surroundings.
It is well to devote a little season to meditation
and reflection, but not allow one's self to merge
into gloom, and dwell too much among shad-
ows, for substance is always preferable to shad-
ows, and to plant one's feet on the solid earth is
surer footing than flying off into the clouds,
however alluring their ethereal proportions
may appear in the distance. One is more cer-
tain of one's self on terra firma than in the re
gion of uncertainty. There is a pathos in the
sighing requiem of the departing glory of Au-
tumn that falls soothingly upon the senses, and
impresses one with a solemnity, mingled with
reverence, that reaches out after and grasps all
of the Infinite with which nature, in her teem-
ing luxuriance, at this season abounds.
	The death of vegetation by frost and wind
late in the autumn is styled the funeral of the
year, it has been born in its characteristic sence,
has been fondled and dandled in the arms of
Spring, has developed into beauty under the
auspices of Summer, and has ripened into ful-
ness of strength and grown sober and gray
with the chilly winds of Autumn and the
trees sigh its requiem, and Winter comes to
grasp with its firm hold, and gather in its
bosom all that remains of beauty and fragrance
of the passing year, and with the Christmas
Holidays make what recompense it may for
marring the beauty and despoiling the glory of
nature's perfection and burying it out of
sight. How many lessons of life may be learned
from the sentiments which the changes of
time involve. How many precious memories
are buried with the fading of the leaves, how
many hopes are blown away regretfully, that
we recall in sympathy with the fluttering
leaves, and the flitting birds, who no longer
sing as before, but pass to other and more con-
genial climes.
	But if one has sown good seed in the heart,
and treasured up in the garner of the mind,
pure thoughts and holy inspirations, then, by
the Winter fireside, with kindly nurture,
these exquisite gems of true and genuine worth
may be growing and strengthening and diffus-
ing light and imparting to other hearts and
other minds a genial warmth, a glowing com-
fort, that may culminate in a purity and fresh-
ness that will beautify and adorn the life in-
doors, and cheer and gladden the atmosphere of
home, or the surroundings of the poor and low-
ly, and give expression and tone to the heaven-
born charity, which properly nourished,
fills the human soul with joy, come Spring or
Summer, Autumn or Winter.
			[handwritten] E. B. Well


