WOMEN IN CHINA.

	The condition of women in China is most
pitiable; suffering, privation, contempt, all
kinds of misery and degradation seize on
her in her cradle, and accompany her piti-
lessly to the tomb. Her very birth is com-
monly regarded as a humiliation and dis-
grace to the family,—an evident sign of the
malediction of heaven. If she is not im-
mediately suffocated, she is treated and
looked upon as a creature intrinsically dis-
picable, and scarcely belonging to the hu-
man race. This appears so incontestable a
fact, that Pan-houi-pan, celebrated, though
a woman, among Chinese writers, endeav-
ors in her works to humiliate her own sex
by reminding them constantly of the infe-
rior rank they occupy in the creation.
"When a son is born," she says, "he sleeps
on a bed, he is clothed with silk and plays
with pearls; every—one attends to his
princely cries. But when a girl is born,
she sleeps upon the ground, is meanly
wrapped up in cloth, plays with a tyle, and
is incapable of acting either virtuously or


viciously. She has nothing to think of but
preparing food, making wine, and not vex
ing her parents." Even after marriage her
case is not improved. According to the
expressions of an old Chinese writer, "the
newly-married wife should be but a shadow
and echo in the house." She has no right
to take her meals with her husband; nay,
not even with her male children; her duty
is to serve them at table, to stand by them
in silence, help them to drink and light
their pipes. She must eat alone, and after
they are done, and in a corner; her food is
scanty and coarse, and she would not dare
to touch even what is left by her own sons.
It may be thought that this idea does not
well agree with the much-talked-of princi-
ples of filial piety; but it must not be for-
gotten that in China the woman counts for
nothing; the law ignores her existence, or
notices her merely to load her with fetters,
to complete her servitude, and to confirm
her legal incapacity.—Dublin University
Magazine.


