0 My Husband By Augusta Winters Grant with my husband. In that time we have shared sorrows and joys; have known hope and disappointment, but disillusionment in each other, never! Our love and respect have increased with the years. Now at eighty we enjoy life to the fullest. We echo in our hearts Browning's verse: FIFTY-TWO years I have spent "Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be? The last of life for which the first was made: Our times are in his hands Who saith, 'A whole I planned, Youth shows but half Trust God, see all, nor be afraid!? WE have many tastes in common ?we love people, simple amusements, travel, reading, music, art; we enjoy having our friends come to both our city and canyon homes, but dislike intensely any formality. We have great satisfaction in going to the Temple together. APPRECIATE the consideration and generosity which have always been shown me by my husband, but hesitate to draw aside the veil of our intimacy, except to say that no woman could have had a better husband than mine has been to me. One amusing little incident will illustrate his kindly nature. Partly in fun, partly in earnest, I suggested one day that I tell him and he me any little oddities that might annoy each other. I mentioned one or two of his slight idiosyncrasies, and then said, "Now you tell me some of my little frailties." There was a slight twinkle in his eye as he replied: 'You haven't one."' Sa Latter-day Saint wife I honor my husband as a man holding the priesthood. It is my firm conviction that if the women of our Church would rely unfalteringly upon the inspiration'of their husbands, in all important matters concerning their family affairs, they would find that their husbands would grow in the power of discernment and decision through the exercise of their priesthood. I, who know my husband better than anyone else possibly can, know him to be a man of God, that he desires to understand the mind and will of God, and in humility to do it. I therefore not only uphold him as head of my household, but head of the Church.