"I find that there is a great change and that many of the things that we have had in the past that have added to our pleasure will have to be gone without in the future and that perhaps much of the work that we have had done by others will have to be done by us, but I am thankful to feel that I am sure of your love and support and that you will without complaint take up your share of the burdens. I have been pleased with your labors so far in life as I have seen that above all things that the desire to do right and to be honest was first and foremost with you and I pray God with all my heart that you will always feel this way. I think more of your doing right than of all the gifts and graces in the way of good looks and fine things that this world can produce.
"You have a labor ahead of you in this life that is very important and that is much greater than usually falls to the lot of a girl of your years, and this labor is to assist in the rearing of your brother and sisters. Your example will do more to lead them in the right path than almost anything else that can happen. I will not be home much of the time as when I am not away on business I will be on missions for the Church and the time may come when some of the little ones will not give that heed that they should to the wishes of their Aunt Gusta, and your example in this regard will do more than words to keep them in the right path. If you are careful and thoughtful of all that you do and your example is all that it should be the little ones will follow it and the task of your Aunt Gusta will be one of love and pleasure; but on the other hand in case you and Lutie do not do all in your power to aid and assist in rearing the children, Gusta will find her labor almost more than she can endure. I know that today she feels to thank the Lord for the sweet task He has given her in having you and the rest of the children to rear. I feel that you will do all that it is possible to do and I thank the Lord that you feel this way.
"It will soon be your birthday and I write to send you all the fond love that it is within my power to send you and to wish you with all my heart many, many happy returns of the day. You will soon be in your 16th year and you must commence to have serious thoughts. I was hard at work when I was 16 earning part of the money that we were living on, and while I do not want you to go to work I do want you to save all that you can by helping at home, and above all I want you to be cheerful and happy in any and all work that you have to do. I feel that you will do all that I suggest and I am as thankful as I know how to be that you have been all that I could ask so far in your life and I pray that the Lord will watch over and protect you in the future as He has in the past. You will be going to parties and to sociables in the near future and I want you to be careful and never allow the slightest liberty to be taken by any of your escorts. There are very many of the young men among us as well as in the world that are not good and that have no regard for virtue and that is a dearer treasure than even life itself. Your mamma taught you very plainly in all things of this kind and you must remember all that she told you and watch over the other children now that she has gone and teach them as she taught you. I want you to always be free and frank with me and your Aunt Gusta as well as with mother as the safe way is to do nothing or have no companions that you do not want us to know all about. You must be as careful of your grandma's feelings as possible and do all that you can for her, as she is an old lady now and in the providences of the Lord she can't remain with us many years, and while some of the things that she wants done may not be just as we would like, we had better try to please her as it will be a pleasure to recall that we did all that we could to make her contented and happy. I regret, my darling girl, that I can not be home with you on your 15th birthday, as I had hoped that I could be there and that I would be able to add something to the pleasures of the day. I send you the fond love of a devoted father and an earnest prayer that you will be blessed and prospered of the Lord all the days of your life.
"I want you and all of us to so live that when we have finished this life that we will meet with a fond welcome from the Lord as well as your dear sweet mother. I shall not purchase you any present to remember the day by, but I will send you a father's blessing with his assurance that the life that you have led in the past has been pleasing to him and has added much to his happiness and to ask that you go on in the future making him happy by doing all the good that you can and by attending to the labors that you have before you from time to time with cheerfulness. Once more sending you all the fond love and sweet kisses that a letter can carry, I am, with a heartfelt prayer, that God will bless you always,
"Your loving and devoted father, (Signed) "Heber J. Grant."