Some Outstanding Characteristics of President Heber J. Grant By George W. Middleton
TURNING backward the pages of memory I recall very vividly the first time I ever saw President Grant. He was a young apostle then on one of his official visits to the southern end of the territory. Of course I knew about him but had never seen him nor had the pleasure of hearing him speak. There was a well packed house in the old tabernacle at Cedar City. It was a stormy night but the inclement weather had not deterred the people from coming out to hear the new apostle. I must have been in my early teens, at that impressionable age when our emotions lie near to the surface. The clean cut incisive style and the downright earnestness of the speaker made a profound impression on me which I have never forgotten. When the wind outside raised to a tempest, the speaker said, "Now, I can out-talk that storm, and shall only need to know how loud I must intone my voice to make you all hear. If anybody fails to hear let him hold up his hand."
PRESIDENT GRANT has a style of oratory that is all his own. Of course, any man who preaches so much is bound to repeat himself, especially when there are so many demands on his time that he could not, if he would, plan sermons. At a big gathering of prominent people at Detroit a few months ago his speech was quite a sensation, and his audience gave him an ovation, and begged him to speak again in the banquet that was to follow. There is an underlying sense of humor in many of his pungent sentences which is very pleasing, and people never hear him once without wanting to hear him again. It is a remarkable thing that although he is within a few weeks of his 80th birthday his vim and vigor and earnestness has known no abatement, and he speaks with as much force as he did half a century ago.
A YEAR or so ago I went with President Grant down to Cedar City. He was responding to a request to dedicate a new church and as it was in my native section the people had asked me to come down with him. We drove over to the hospitable home of his daughter, Mrs. Clifford Young, at American Fork for an evening dinner and then took the road through the dark night for Fillmore. "Put your speedometer at fifty miles an hour," he said to the chauffeur boy, "and keep it there. Do not let it indicate any faster or any slower speed." After a few hours' rest in the early morning we were on the road again and kept the even pace of fifty miles an hour to Cedar City, where we arrived in time for the first meeting. After carrying through two lengthy programs we were on the road again, and that same evening met an overflow crowd in the tabernacle at Fillmore. The next early morning found our speedometer still registering fifty miles an hour as we sped back to the city. I tell this to indicate the alacrity of President Grant's movements, and the many things he accomplishes by crowding so many hours into a day and making every minute count.
ONE outstanding characteristic of President Grant is moral courage. You may not always agree with him but you always know exactly where he stands on any issue, though it may be sometimes detrimental to his own interest. If he thinks he is right nobody ever need fear that he will back down. His word is as good as his bond. When the Church leaders decided that it was better to give up plural marriage than to continue the harassing struggle with the federal government it was naturally a trying time for all those people involved. After the Church gave its word of honor President Grant only inquired into the validity of their pledge, and then became staunch and immovable in his resolution to fulfill that obligation. He has absolutely no sympathy for those misguided people who fail to realize the sacredness of a promise, and so far as he is concerned they have had no quarter and cannot expect any.
IN the early experience with national politics in this state it was natural that there should be irregularities in the nature of "gum shoeing" and whispering campaigns. People had to learn by experience how to respect absolutely the rights of others. There had been considerable bad feeling engendered previous to the time of President Grant's incumbency as president both among the Mormon people and our non-Mormon neighbors. But when Heber J. Grant assumed the presidency he said: "There shall be no Church influence in politics." For the eighteen years of his rule there has not been the suspicion of Church interference in anything that does not concern the Church, and his reputation for absolute fairness has appealed not only to the members of the Mormon Church but to our non-Mormon neighbors. Everybody knows that no matter what might be President Grant's own private opinion or preference he keeps that to himself and never advises anybody how to vote, nor does he allow his subordinate officials to express opinions that might influence others, contrary to their own convictions.
PRESIDENT GRANT related to me once a remarkable testimony he received while traveling in Arizona. I cannot repeat the details of it now, but it was of such an impressive nature that he has never since doubted the verity of Mormonism, and his whole life has been devoted to its service. Every thought and every act of his life has been directed to the fulfillment of his duty as an officer of the Church, and every other activity of his life has to be made subordinate to that first impelling duty.
In the same way President Grant has been loyal to his friends. If he is once your friend he is always your friend. The voice of slander has had no place in his life. He is not seeking for faults in your life, but for those virtues which make you worthy of his friendship. He is no fair weather friend who smiles upon you today and frowns upon you tomorrow, but he is always the same. His devotion to his own family is remarkable. His interest in his children's welfare has been uniform and constant; there has been no slightest sign of partiality, though his numerous daughters are of three different mothers. His absolute sense of justice has bound his family to him with a sense of great veneration and love.
ONE of the most outstanding virtues of President Grant is his great liberality. He has naturally been a conscientious guardian of the large Church fund over which he is the trustee-in-trust, but he has been liberal with the ward and stake officials who applied for funds to build chapels and to meet other contingencies that came up in their administration. But with his private revenues he has felt that he could do with them as he pleased. Each year he has sent books by the thousands to friends all over this western part of the continent, and I should imagine to other parts far away. In homes very widely sundered I have encountered books inscribed with his classic penmanship, and dedicated in kindly words with the greetings of the Christmas season to friends who must all remember with gratitude this kindly consideration. He is truly a princely giver who never lets his left hand know what his right hand has bestowed. When kindred or friends were in trouble, delinquent tax bills were met, hospital bills liquidated and sums of money advanced as free will offerings. If he thought a friend would like a nice picture or a desired book or any other thing that would make him happy, it was forthcoming without the least thought or hesitation. He seems to have an ambition to die poor. Quite recently to help out the cause of the Church effort to take all its members off the dole, he advanced twenty-five thousand dollars out of his own pocket.
Perhaps the most remarkable things about President Grant are his wonderful vitality and his ability for sustained work. When you consider that in a very few weeks he will be eighty years old it is amazing to see how much in each day he can accomplish. His temperate life no doubt has to do with this; he has never been poisoned with tobacco nor whisky nor any other harmful thing, but beyond that there must be a durability in his physical fibre of an unusual order. You remember the Wonderful One Hoss Shay created by the imagination of our great physician poet, Doctor Oliver Wendell Holmes, had all its parts so tempered in texture and durability that it ran perfectly for a hundred years to the day and then went to pieces all in a heap. The one is fortunate who can approximate this simile in his own physical make-up, and round out his octogenarian or nonogenarian life or even reach the century mark possessed of his faculties and blessed with good health. It is hard to predict week by week and day by day what is going to happen to one who is past the scriptural allowance of three score and ten years, but here is one who is already ten years to the good of that limitation and is in much better physical condition than he was twenty years ago, and whose mind has retained its resiliancy and whose thought is just as buoyant as ever. Many men long before the eightieth year are going with drooping shoulders and with a look of self-pity in their countenance which is distressing. But here is a man with his head erect, his skylight and sidelights open and his mental and physical responses as alert as in his younger years. With perfect self-reliance he is seeking no man's pity, but wants only an opportunity to work out the fine destiny which the Lord has mapped out for him, and to stimulate others with his virile example, and his kindly demeanor to his fellows.
Is it luck, is it good living, is it destiny, or is it a combination of the three that enables one to come up to the score of eighty years with such mental and physical poise that he looks as if the race reaches yet far into future time, and as if the daily routine might continue its rhythmic regularity for many years to come. Perhaps it is luck that preserves us from accidents and accidental infections; no doubt it is good living that keeps our resistance at a high mark; but perhaps it is destiny that casts some into the mold of a Lincoln instead of a Ford.
LET us wish that this kindly good man may have a long series of years yet to continue his useful life, and that his fine example of energy and integrity may stimulate many others to emulate his remarkable career.