11 Editorials Best Wishes WE congratulate our beloved President Heber J. Grant on reaching his eightieth birthday vigorous in body, alert in mind, radiant in spirit. His life long in years and in good deeds has been an example of integrity and devotion to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, Never was there a more devoted son. His mother's welfare and happiness were ever dominant in his mind, and he saw to it that her last days were her best days. In his young manhood he longed for a university education. When George Q. Cannon, then in Congress, told him that he would appoint him either to Annapolis or West Point, he walked on air. He felt now his dreams could be' realized. He chose Annapolis. He visioned himself an admiral. His joy was complete until he looked into his mother's eyes and saw pain there. He gave up this cherished longing because she did not wish him to go. This decision we believe changed the whole course of his life, for with his determination and application he doubtless would have gained distinction in the navy which would have taken him away from his people. As husband, father, grandfather, he has shown the same devotion as he did to his mother. While he leads a very busy life, he always has time to look after the welfare of his family.. The bond of love between him and them is most beautiful. Sincerity must be the fundamental characteristics of a truly great man. President Grant from his boyhood has ever evidenced this sterling trait. He has been throughout his long life sincere in his affection for his family, sincere in his determination to succeed, sincere in his service to his employers. From the time he was appointed as President of Tooele Stake through his long years of service as Apostle and as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, his sincere EDITORIALS faith, his unswerving devotion to his Father's work has been unquestioned. President Grant is in the truest sense deeply religious. He has visited and ministered to the widow and orphan and has kept himself unspotted from the sins of the world. He goes about continually doing good, finding congenial work for those out of employment, giving words of encouragement and financial assistance to those in need, distributing books with a lavish hand that feed the souls of those who read them, scattering works of art to bring culture and delight to thousands. Because of his wide travel and the remarkable welcome he _ receives from people of all classes, he has 721 been termed our "Ambassador of Good Will." He is accorded respect and honor wherever he goes, and people listen intently to his message and enthusiastically applaud him at its conclusion. Those whom he meets recognize his sincerity. They know he believes what he preaches, and his clear messages find a welcome in their hearts. And so beloved and honored by his own people and by those of different faiths he goes about enriching the lives of those whom he meets. As he goes from stake to stake and ward to ward, his admonitions lead to better living among the Latter-day Saints. God has blessed and magnified him. Long may he live to be a source of strength to his people.