[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 302 | Fiction | Jerusha Spends the Night-Chapter 4 | Hazel K. Todd]
Jerusha Spends the Night Hazel K. Todd Chapter 4 SYNOPSIS: Jerusha, who came to the Wilson home "'to spend the night,' has become an integral part of the family. Amy has finally made up with Jerusha and the child has come to depend upon her and love her deeply, as have the rest of the family members, excepting Joe, who seems to become increasingly more belligerent, but Jerusha remains unswayed in her determination to win him over. @ In the middle of the week Ruth Johnson called Jerusha tu invite her to a quilting at her home. "A very special niece of mine, who teaches school in California has consented to spend the remainder of her vacation with us, and I thought it would be a good chance for her to get acquainted with some of my friends." Jerusha glowed with pleas- 302 ure. "I am so happy you'd include me," she said. "I'd just love to come." And then something popped into her head. "And Id love to bring a pan of fresh gingerbread with some whipping cream for lunch. I've been feeding it to the family, and they love it." "Wonderful!"" Ruth said. "I might have known you'd come up with something." On the day of the quilting Jerusha made two pans of gingerbread, one for the family, and one for the party. She left her best wishes with Suzey. "It'll do you good to be on your own once in awhile with just your family," she said. "Maybe you could put the hem in your dress we just finished. It's all measured, you know." She kissed Amy and promised to tell her an extra long story at bedtime, waved at Dennis working in the yard where he had promised to trim the grass around. The edge of the flower beds, and stole a sigh-laden glance at young Joe driving a tractor into the field. "Take the car," Paul said before he left for work. "There's no need of your having people pick you up everywhere you go." eS erusha fit in with her new friends as though she had always belonged. And she was delighted with the niece, Lynn Barlow. She was a friendly person with brown waving hair and wide gray eyes that sparkled with vitality. Years of teaching English to eighth and ninth graders had given her a world of experience to share. She had escapades to tell of so many Marys and Johnnies that she kept the ladies pleasantly entertained more than her share of the time. "They're all so different," she said, "and yet so much alike. Each one can come up with a new angle to try you. And yet they are all youngsters wanting love and acceptance. Just like my prize, Craig. He did things all winter to exasperate me— Jerusha Spends the Night thumbtacks in my chair, hiding erasers, and teasing everyone around him. And yet on the last day of school here he comes with a note asking forgiveness for all the trouble he'd caused and wanting me to tell him all about the 'Badlands' of Utah next year. So I have to take a trip to the 'Badlands' while I'm here just so I can have something to hang over Craig's head because I'm sure to get him in my room next year." Jerusha found herself wondering ironically if she took a trip to the 'Badlands' if she could hang it over Joe's head some way to make him accept her. Exploring another angle of such a situation, she remarked, "It's wise you didn't invite him to come with you on such an excursion. He might have decided to push you over." "Over Dead Horse Point?" Lynn laughed contagiously. "And all the time he'd really not want to break my poor body in pieces on the rocks." Jerusha made a mental comparative analysis and decided Joe didn't fit in Craig's classification because he'd probably like to break her into bits with no reservation. Lunch was delightful. Everyone enjoyed the _ gingerbread. Lynn insisted on having the recipe, but wheels were turning in Jerusha's head. She had a better idea. "I'll tell you what," she said, "you come out to the Wilsons' farm and have dinner with us, and I'll let you make the gingerbread just to make sure you give it the right touch under the tutorship of an expert." "Why, how nice!" Lynn said. 

303 April 1970

 "TI'd love to. Just name the day." "I'll call you," Jerusha promised, making a mental note to be sure it would be on a day when Paul Wilson would be at the dinner table and not somewhere else on business or to a church meeting. ) Ruth saw Jerusha to her car. Jerusha climbed in and perched herself atop the sofa pillow. She turned then with her tongue in her cheek and met Ruth's accusing smile. "Your niece is a right interesting person," she said innocently. ""How come she's never married yet? Not that she's old and dried up like me, but "She's twenty-eight," Ruth said. "And she's just never found the right one, I guess. What else?" I "Oh, nothing, nothing," Jerusha said nonchalantly. "TI know you have some ideas," Ruth laughed. "Well," Jerusha said, with her foot. Stretched to reach the starter, "get on the band wagon. Maybe we could make beautiful music together." "I've invited a guest to dinner some evening," Jerusha announced at the breakfast table the morning after the quilting. "A niece of the Johnsons who's spending the remainder of her summer vacation with them." She was conscious of Joe's scowl of disapproval, but she continued as though he had simply smiled at her. "She teaches English in California, and she is a very interesting person." "Maybe I can learn a few things about English," Suzey laughed. "It's my hardest subject." 304 "Most likely she'll correct everything you say, till you don't dare talk," Joe offered. "That's the way English teachers do." "Oh, I don't believe it would be that bad, Joe," Mr. Wilson said. "I think it's a nice gesture to make her feel at home in the ward. We'll be glad to have her come, Jerusha." "Thank you," she said. "Now, how about the day? This is a family invitation, you know. How would next Wednesday be for everybody? I know Suzey goes to MIA camp the next week, so this week should do for her." Paul thought a minute. "That's fine with me," he said and looked at Joe sitting glumly silent. "How about you, Joe?" "Does it matter?" he answered with his eyes glued on his plate. "Joe!" Paul said rather sternly, concern on his face. Joe looked up fleetingly. "Okay," he mumbled. '""What'll we have for dessert?" Dennis asked, particular days not mattering to him as long as they held something good to eat. "Gingerbread," Jerusha said. "She wants to try out the recipe herself." "Um-um." Dennis smacked his lips. "I hope she makes it as good as you do." "I'm going to stand right over her with a whip while she does it," Jerusha laughed. "It'll probably be better than when I do it alone." When Wednesday came, everyone seemed particularly solicitous but Joe, who kept his usual distance. Paul. Suggested sending a sandwich with Joe and him for lunch and promised not to keep dinner waiting. Suzey, always willing, was particularly anxious to help. With Jerusha's instructions she made a lovely set salad and decorated it with mint leaves and maraschino cherries Jerusha had made from the cherry tree in the orchard. Amy, sensing something special in the air, stayed even closer to Jerusha. Dennis came from the ridge in the field where Paul had sent him to check on the prairie dog traps, carrying an armful I of bluebells sprinkled with yellow stinkweed flowers. Which made - Suzey cover her mouth with her hand to keep from laughing. Jerusha gave her a silencing wink. "Wonderful!" she said, _be- - stowing an extravagant smile on Dennis. "You remembered we needed flowers for the table on special occasions." Dennis grinned. She handed him a pair of kitchen shears. '""Now, why don't you find me some fresh parsley for the roast." "The bluebells will be lovely," Jerusha said after he was gone, as she arranged them in a vase, sorting out the others. "We'll just substitute a few of those late yellow roses for the stinkweeds and Dennis won't know the difference." In the afternoon the guest arrived. She stepped lithely from her car, wearing a cool flowered dress with a white ruffly apron. She looked fresh and alive as Jerusha met her at the door. "Well, here I am," she anJerusha Spends the Night nounced enthusiastically. '""The Gingerbread Woman instead of the Gingerbread Man, all ready to run away into a bowl of molasses and ginger." Dennis, standing by with big eyes and ears, snickered and ducked his head. "It's all ready for you," Jerusha assured her, "and young Dennis here has you on _ probation, so it had better be good." Lynn walked over, put her arm playfully around his neck and whirled him around. "Oh, so you have, have you! Well, let me assure you, young man, this gingerbread will be so good, you'll never allow Jerusha to make it any more. You'll be sending clear to California for me!" "I hope so," Jerusha remarked with her back to them so they did not hear. ' Bana so the gingerbread got on its way with joviality and fun. Suzey was the age of scores of young girls Lynn had taught, so Lynn knew just how to make her feel at home. It was no time at all until they were chatting freely. Dennis, whose nonchalant style nobody ruffled, watched the procedure with a growing appetite. And once when nobody saw but Jerusha who pretended she didn't, he swiped his finger through the dough and stuck it into his mouth. But Amy, having refused to be cajoled in any way by the visitor, slipped away with her doll, even forsaking Jerusha. Near dinnertime Paul and Joe came from the field. Watching through the window, Jerusha wondered just what Joe would do. But he came in with his 

305 April 1970

 father. She had half expected him to be missing for dinner. But she understood Paul's concern about Joe. He had mentioned it to her. "I don't know what's got into him," he said. "He never used to be like this." Lynn was standing by the cupboard counter cutting the warm gingerbread into squares when they came in. The sun through at oT any the window was shining on her hair, making it glisten with soft mellow lights. She turned, and her wide gray eyes sparkled with friendliness. "Miss Lynn Barlow," Jerusha began, thinking she was as excited herself as if she had swallowed a jumping-jack, "TI want you to meet Paul Wilson and his son Joe." Paul smiled cordially and put out his hand. "We are very happy to have you, Miss Barlow," he said. She took it gracefully. "I always make myself at home," 306 she said with a glance at her apron. And then she turned to Joe standing glumly silent. She looked appraisingly up and down his physique. "Basketball, football, or track?" she asked pleasantly. He hesitated a minute. "What makes you think I do any of them?"' She laughed, an easy pleasant laugh. "Oh, just the law of all young men," she said. "They nearly all try one or the other or all three. Some of them can't keep the training, or the grades, but they all want to." Jerusha felt more than she saw Joe's quick glance in her direction. But she made no sign of concern. "I guess I like football," Joe said. And then he added defensively, '""And I don't like English." Paul turned to him quickly. But Lynn didn't seem to mind at all. She laughed again. "No, I don't suppose so," she _ said casually. "Most boys don't. To them a verb is just some outlandish bug-a-boo that nobody needs." "That's right," he said, "What good are they?", Lynn shrugged. "Oh, let's not get into that now. I'd think I was in the schoolroom, and this is my vacation." Jerusha had been listening with interest. Now she excused herself and went to find Amy. The little girl was sitting on the bench under the willow tree telling her doll a story about a Clackety Man. Seeing her friend, she ran to Jerusha's outstretched arms. Dinner was pleasant and entertaining. They talked about everything from the salad Suzey had decorated so attractively, making her blush with embarrassed pleasure, to football and the "Badlands" of Utah. Jerusha Spends the Night "I wish I could go there," Dennis said, helping himself to another roll and plastering it with butter. "Well, come along," Lynn said, 'Join the party." "Honest?" Dennis said, letting his knife slip out of his hand to the floor, "could I?" "Now," Paul answered, embarrassed at his son's forwardness, "I'm sure Miss Barlow was joking. She probably has her trip all planned without a small fry like you to complicate things." "But I won't clom—clomclicate anything," Dennis promised in dead seriousness. "As a matter of fact," Lynn said, laughingly, looking first at Dennis and then at Paul. "I don't even have the party organized yet. I don't see why I couldn't include Dennis. He could just fit in as a piece of chinking in some crack." (To be continued) WHEN CATTLE PASS I hear the cattle coming up the slope; Their placid lowing, the rising cloud of dust. Are sound and scent of summer Rounding the final bend. In my remembering, when harebells bloomed Against the greening banks of warming earth, I opened wide the shutters on my days To all that winged or sang; Yet I could weep for the too early bud Ice sabered, Or broken under snow. I! Am more patient now with sullen moods Of winter loath to leave; For always cattle come in their own time, Finding the narrow hoof-deciphered trails To mountain meadows of a high brief summer— ' And certain is the flowering in.