[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 258 | Special Feature | Afterglow— First Prize Poem Virginia | Maughan Kammeyer]
[Afterglow— First Prize Poem Virginia Maughan Kammeyer]

First — AFTERGLOW Virginia Maughan Kammeyer Pastoral Do you remember how the summer Stayed; and does it seem to you that it was always afternoon? The apple trees were bathed in amber light and emerald shade that timeless June. The loaded carts reeled down the freckled lane, and we would run behind them, kicking velvet dust, and watch as bursting loads were forked and thrust into tall stacks. Do you recall? The heavy-headed roses touched their lips to the cool porches where we liked to Pass, and there were violets scattered in the grass beneath the many-fingered pine and fir— At least, I think there were. And after, when the day was lavendar, and little insects played a fiddle string, and Eypsy moths flew round our heads on creamy wing, then do you recollect how we would sing? Pathétique Where are they gone—the hollyhocks we plucked to fashion into dolls, the golden fruit we sucked? Where are the roses, once incarnadine—the fingers that encircled yours and mine? Green mound, green mound, where summer rain is spread, the autumn frost, the winter's cumbrous snow— Where are the occupants of the dark bed? Is there another, near, sun-lit reality, where kind winds blow? Fugue Do children somewhere play at hide-and-seek? (Those that seek me Carly shall find me.) Are there moon-lilies by a Pasture gate? (Consider the lilies of the field how they grow; they toil not, neither do they Spin.) (The pillars thereof of silver, the bottom thereof of gold, the covering of it of purple, the midst thereof being paved with love.) 258 VIRGINIA MAUGHAN KAMMEYER (author of ''Afterglow," First Prize Poem) 'I deeply appreciate having been chosen first prize winner in the Relief Society Poem Contest. Thank you so much for this honor. 'As for facts about myself: I live with my husband, Fred Kammeyer, in Alderwood Manor, just north of Seattle, Washington. We have six children. A daughter is attending Ricks College, and a son is on a mission in Germany. I teach in Relief Society and in the Mutual Improvement Association, and am a member of the National League of American Penwomen. "The Relief Society Magazine, The Instructor, and The Improvement Era have been kind enough to publish my articles, stories, and poems. A series of my humorous poems under the title 'Life Among the Mormons,' ran for thirteen months in the Era. 'I wrote 'Afterglow' for my children to let them know how it used to be for my sisters, brothers, and cousins to remember—and for my mother for very special reasons." 259 second Py = Poem WINDS OF SAN JUAN Hazel Loomis To you I came, Arms wet with longing, With father, mother, children all In youthing roots Set down to grow. A stripling orchard— House, resin weeping from its wood, A stair (my harp to play upon) And from its topmost rung, A sudden room—world large— For dark came early There. Mother, our evening star, climbed And there the wool of night was soft and deep And with the windward stream of wild plum blooms We knelt our whispered praise. Awake. And I was pitted with the sod! The work of blade and ditches, books, and barns. The always mother singing—sewing, The always father fencing—planning, The always Zion in their visioned gaze. The river of my days probed deep The milk of your prophetic earth And from the jigging—jogging Friday dance Into remembered Saturday of time, Then in the sable warmth of Sabbath I stood with you on holy ground! The vigor of your wind is hot upon my face My blood runs crimson as your oak And goes sledding on your crystal winter night. I shall not weep at death Or dying of the light. For I have viewed The resurrection of your dawn. I come to you with dew From off the high hill's planting. I bring my tithe (would gladly give my all). Take me, oh, gentle wind, to that hallowed upper room, Wash me again in spikenard Of wild plum bloom!