[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 268 | Special Feature | Come Back, Mis' Mackenzie— First Prize Story | Sylvia Probst Young]
Come Back, Mis' Mackenzie do his very best in everything. "Need me to help you with anything?" I asked, as I crossed the room to my desk. She shook her head. "I was just standing here thinking what a beautiful day it is. The ground on the south side of the schoolhouse has finally dried up, we can jump rope and play marbles at recess." "Yah," I drawled, "but this kind of weather always gives me the spring fever." "Well, you're not so different, Joe,' she confided. "I feel the same way. It always hits me about the middle of March, and I get real anxious to see my grandchildren again, even though it hasn't been so long since I was with them at Christmas." "We miss you in the summer, Mis' Mackenzie, but you'll be coming back again?" It was the same old question that we always asked. Her smile was a little indecisive. "Sometimes I wonder just what I should do, Joe. My family are after me all the time to come down there and stay, and somehow I don't like the snowdrifts like I used to. Do you suppose I'm getting old?" she laughed. The other children started coming in then. There were seventeen of us altogether, two or three in every grade. I looked over the group as we took our seats, there was such a wide range of ability and personality that I wondered again how Mis' Mackenzie was able to keep such perfect order and still keep everyone happy and studious. Her greatest challenge, I felt sure, was in the sixth grade, with Deloris and Marybeth. Deloris, 

269 April 1970

 b a head taller than Mis' Mackenzie, and mature for her age, looked more like sixteen than twelve. Her eyes were dark and sultry, and it seemed that she always had a chip on her shoulder—a kind of defensive thing, perhaps because she was the only one of her nationality in our school. Marybeth, by contrast, was fair-haired, small and frail. From infancy she had suffered with a crippling bone disease in her right leg. Now, after five operations, she was able to walk fairly well with the aid of a crutch. But in spite of her affliction, she radiated sunshine wherever she went. The children at school all had a kind of protective feeling for Marybeth, and it was easily understood why she was a favorite of everyone. 270 BS nae Mette NOIR OR The day started as most of our school days, with a warm greeting from Mis' Mackenzie, the Pledge of Allegiance, and a few minutes for sharing interests. Nancy Hopkins had brought a rock collection to show the class, and Tom Peters was proudly wearing a brand new wrist watch that his grandma in Illinois had sent him for his birthday. The sun was still warm and bright at recess, and we all went out eagerly to play. Mark Clayson and I were playing marbles on the south side of the schoolhouse. Most of the girls were jumping the rope close by, but we hadn't paid any particular attention to them until there was a sudden, loud commotion, and a chorus of voices, high and angry. Looking up, I saw Deloris standing apart from the others. "IT hate you," she hissed out the words. "I hate you, Marybeth Frazer, and I'm glad you're a cripple!" She turned then and ran swiftly into the schoolhouse. Mis' Mackenzie came around the schoolhouse just in time to hear the dramatic outburst, her face paled, and she bit her lower lip. "What was the problem?" she asked gently. All of the girls tried to talk at unce, and it was quite evident that they were all in sympathy with Marybeth. Then, without saying anything more, Mis' Mackenzie went back into the schoolhouse, and when we came in from recess she was writing arithmetic problems on the blackboard. Deloris sat with her head buried on her desk. What had taken place between the two of them we could only wonder. Nobody said a word, but there was a kind of heavy feeling all over the room. Mis' Mackenzie went right on with the arithmetic as if nothing had happened, but Deloris never once looked up, and when we were dismissed for lunch she bolted out of the room, ran all the way home, and didn't return for the rest of the day. After that nothing seemed quite the same. Deloris returned to school, but she was sullen and withdrawn, staying by herself, and answering as briefly as possible when spoken to. It seemed to me that Mis' Mackenzie looked suddenly tired and old, and very sad, like a person who had lost something dear. I wanted to talk to her, but I didn't know just what to say. Then one night an opportunity came. Come Back, Mis' Mackenzie I had stayed to help hang some pictures we had drawn, and Mis' Mackenzie started to talk about the things that were troubling her. "Joe," she said, "I've about decided to stay in California when I go." I was standing on a chair, reaching up to the top of the chalk board, and I almost lost my balance. When I regained my footing I looked down at her. "Mis' Mackenzie, please don't do that," I begged. ""We have to have you." '"Nobody's indispensable, Joe. There is always someone who can do the job as well or better than the person before him. Besides, I'm getting older, and I'm really tired." I became brave then, ventured the question. "It's because of Deloris, isn't it?" I asked. And She shook her head quickly. "Not Deloris, but my inability to reach her, to help her, to make her grow in understanding. Her antagonism is like a cloud of gloom over everyone in our class. I should be able to help her find herself and help her to realize that we all want to be her friend as well as Marybeth's. I have tried in every way I know, but I have failed. It's in myself that I am disappointed." I tried to tell her that no other teacher could do more than she had done, but a sixth grade boy isn't so good at saying things in just the right kind of way. There was nothing left to do but hope that something might happen to make everything right again. The time passed quickly, and 

271 April 1970

 almost before we realized it the time for school to close had come. Mis' Mackenzie had promised us a picnic day during the last week, and we decided to have it on the day before school -let out, with the hopes that there would be no rain. Lucky enough the day dawned clear and bright, and promised to be just right for outdoor activities. There was a small baseball park about four blocks from the schoolhouse where everyone had picnics, and that is where we were going for relays, a baseball game, and to eat our lunch. Mis' Mackenzie promised to _ take along the book she had been reading to us and finish the story of Toronado Jones. I half expected not to see Deloris at all that day, but just before the bell rang she came. Most of the girls had worn slacks, but Deloris was wearing a blue checked gingham dress_ that seemed to give a special glow to her dark eyes. Or, maybe, it was the shoes that made her eyes glow, she was wearing a brand new pair of white shoes. They looked more like the kind to wear to a party, with shining silver buckles and narrow little straps that fit across the instep. They weren't the kind of shoes to wear for an outdoor picnic and game day. But in all her life Deloris hadn't had many new things, and I had heard some of the older folks say that her stepfather was real mean to her. She had worn old shoes all year, so to have a new pair at last must have really lifted her spirits way up, and I guess she wanted us all to see. Mis' Mackenzie and some of the girls told her how pretty her 272 shoes were, and she smiled for the first time in weeks. When we were ready to go, Lucy Reynolds came in with a note from her mother, asking if she could go to the little grocery store to get some twinkies for her lunch. The little store was about a block in the opposite direction, but Lucy promised that she would go as quickly as she could. "May Marybeth please go with me?" she asked. Mis' Mackenzie seemed to be a little uncertain, but she knew that Marybeth would not like it if anyone had the idea that it would be too far for her to walk, so she consented, telling the class that we would walk slowly, and if Lucy and Marybeth hurried they could probably catch up with us. As we walked along everyone -was trying to talk at once, and asking Mis' Mackenzie a hundred questions. When we came down the road to the ball park, old man Brady, who was irrigating his garden, called a greeting to Mis' Mackenzie. He was about the only person in Indian Bend who raised a vegetable garden, but he surely knew how to raise good vegetables. My dad said he learned that in the Old Country. Every summer he passed out his beets and chard and corn and tomatoes to the neighbors. "Looks like you're getting an early start in the garden," Mis' Mackenzie called back to him. — "Yah—water is what they need to grow." He leaned on his hoe and looked at us. "School picnic—huh?" I "School picnic," Mis' kenzie replied. Mac- '"School's about out, huh? Well, when you come back from California these little plants will have the best tomatoes you ever tasted, Mis' Mackenzie." "You always do raise the best," Mis' Mackenzie told him. He beamed and nodded, and we walked on to the park. Mis' Mackenzie looked back anxiously for Lucy and Marybeth. "I. Wonder what's keeping them?" she said. "We'll go in and get started on some relays, maybe they'll be here by then." The grass in the little park was green and fresh looking, and we all sat down to rest for a few minutes. Mis' Mackenzie kept looking back, but still the girls didn't come. "I shouldn't have let them stay behind," she worried. "We all tried to assure her that nothing had happened. "They're probably picking out penny candy, and it takes a long time to do that," one of the boys concluded. "Or maybe the store was full of people and they had to wait their turn," someone else said. Come Back, Mis' Mackenzie Finally we started a stick relay, and the seconds were running, when we heard a call. Marybeth and Lucy were standing on the other side of the road. We saw immediately what had _ happened, old man Brady's irrigation water was flooding the road. Swift rivulets were cutting through the dirt, leaving deposits of mud and gravel. "We can't get across!" Lucy cried. ""Marybeth can't cross the road!" We all knew that, of course. Marybeth, with her crutch, was not too sure footed at anytime, so she couldn't possibly attempt a rutted, wet road. Lucy, who was smaller than Marybeth, would do well to get across herself. "We'll have to help them," Mis' Mackenzie said. "Wait right there girls," she called back, "wait right there, and Ill come." But just as she started, Deloris darted out. Across the mud and water she ran—Deloris with the new white shoes. We watched as she picked Marybeth up in her arms, crutch and all, and carried her across, with Lucy stepping carefully beside her. The beautiful white shoes, that had been so proudly displayed a short while before, now oozed with mud and water. They could never look as nice again. But Deloris didn't seem to mind, for suddenly Marybeth and she were friends again, and all of the 

273 April 1970

 unhappiness. Of the previous weeks had vanished. Marybeth's eyes glowed with admiration and gratitude as Deloris put her down beside Mis' Mackenzie. "I'm sorry we were so long," she apologized. "Lucy lost her quarter, and we searched until we found it." - Then she put her arm around Deloris. '"You're one of the very nicest girls in school, and I love you, but I feel so bad about' your shoes. They're ruined, now." Deloris merely shrugged. "I can dry them, and polish them, and they'll be good as new." She was smiling, and it was so good to see her that way. We had the nicest kind of day. We played games and sang, and Mis' Mackenzie read to us. She seemed more happy and carefree than she had been for a long time. It was almost as if a great load. Had been lifted from her shoulders. The next morning we all went to school to get our promotion cards, and to say goodbye. I noticed that Deloris was wearing her white shoes, but they didn't look quite new anymore, even with polish on them. Mis' Mackenzie talked to us for a few minutes, and wished us all a very happy vacation. Then she stood in the doorway to pass out the cards. When it was Deloris's turn to go by, she reached out her hand and shyly touched Mis' Mackenzie. "Come back, Mis' Mackenzie," she said softly, "come back." Mis' Mackenzie's eyes glistened suddenly, and her smile was as bright as the morning sunshine. "I will, Deloris," she answered emphatically, "I certainly will." SYLVIA PROBST YOUNG (author of ''Come Back, Mis' Mackenzie,'' First Prize Story) "I have written for The Relief Society Magazine for many years and have always felt honored to have my work appear in such a highly reputable, widely read publication. Writing, along with working in a flower garden, and companioning with books are my great loves. I have written poetry, stories, and articles for all the Church magazines. My poetry has been published in Utah Sings, The Deseret News, The Salt Lake Tribune, and a national anthology. In 1966 I won The Deseret News Christmas Story Contest. This is the third time a story of mine has been selected as a winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. In the Relief Society Poem Contest I have been among the winners four times. "Usually in a story some of the characters are prototypes of people we know. Mis' Mackenzie was patterned from the life of a dear sister whose selfless dedication as a teacher of children in the Church, as well as in the public schools, will be long remembered. "Reid W. Young, a former bishop of the Midvale Fourth Ward, and now a member of the Midvale Stake High Council, is my husband, and we are the parents of four wonderful sons. I teach the Gospel Doctrine class in Sunday School. Both Reid and I have filled missions for the Church. Three of our boys have been missionaries also. Now we are the proud grandparents of two little ones—Stephanie Lynn and Robert Reid Young."