[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 248 | Special Feature | President Harold B. Lee Called As | First Counselor]
[President Harold B. Lee Called As First Counselor]

President Smith's blessings have revealed the deep feeling he has toward Relief Society, and his acceptance and understanding of Relief Society in the lives of the women of the Church. Its divine birth and the blessing it is to the souls of men, characterize the content of his blessings. President Smith's mother, Julina Lambson Smith, served nineteen years on the Relief Society General Board and was a Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society under President Clarissa S. Williams. While Julina Smith's husband, President Joseph F. Smith, was President of the Church, the Temple Clothing Department for the Church was assigned to the General Board of Relief Society and _ established and developed under her direction and watchcare. KX) k-) 6. Yi a -_ U 7 ~~, ° v4 a PU oes TL UO TCE CUE. OY C/N OOO CTE CLI. I0 we — PS - Vaasa ea SU wa ten - " "Ao nas Pe. Re ee, ©. RE) 8: B: B: B a.: I B: a: RMalte ters s alan ethers Oak ry) oe eT Ul on! TOUT EE Ot 4 +, D2 050.03:/9309, 38.3 MOII 803040, 3; CRIN ee ] ' B00 0B Oph 1008s Cp Hetiers Sarat a tier PO 4 t/ Ay' President and Sister Smith have often traveled together as he fulfilled conference assignments, and they are beloved throughout the Church. President Joseph Fielding Smith Called to Be Tenth President President Smith's first wife was Louise Emylia Shurtliff, who was the mother of two daughters: Mrs. Henry (Josephine) Reinhardt and Mrs. Elden C. (Julina) Hart. She died in 1908. By his second wife, Ethel Georgina Reynolds, he had five sons and four daughters: Joseph Fielding, Jr., George Reynolds, Douglas A.,. Milton E., Lewis W., who was killed during World War II, Mrs. L. Garrett (Emily) Myers, Mrs. Hoyt W. (Naomi) Brewster, Mrs. Bruce R. (Amelia) McConkie, Mrs. William _ S. (Lois) Fife. Sister Ethel Smith served fourteen years as a member of the General Board of Relief Society, and died in 1937. His third wife, Jessie Ella Evans, took over the care of his large family and devotedly upholds and supports President Smith in all his daily activities. Sister Jessie Evans Smith has _ been generous in the service she has given and in her rich talents which she has shared in the interest of Relief Society. Much inspiration and enlightenment have come to Relief Society members throughout the world through studying the addresses which President Smith has delivered for many years at the Relief Society Annual General Conferences. His kindly and considerate character has tempered the directions, admonitions, and warnings which he has given as an apostle of the Lord to his daughters. In 1952, President Smith was unable to deliver his annual message to Relief Society at the Relief Society Annual General Conference. E]- der Matthew Cowley was asked that morning to speak in his place. We are indebted to Elder Cowley for this evaluation of President Smith which will find an echo in the hearts of Relief Society members everywhere: I want to say that I have never met a more kindly, more considerate, more loving man in all my life than President Joseph Fielding Smith. He is one of the most loving characters I have ever been associated with, and I trust that God will give him strength and a long life to continue his great mission here in the earth in delivering his powerful discourses to the children of Zion. (The Relief Society Magazine, January 1953, p. 6.) Relief Society members have studied over the years, some of the works of President Smith. The Way to Perfection and The Progress of Man brought much enlightenment to the sisterhood and Essentials in Church History has been a reference book for many courses. President Smith's daughters have served as Relief Society stake presidents. Their home lives have reflected the virtues to be found in a _ priesthooddirected home which has a Relief Society mother.