[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 264 | General Feature | Editorial— The Family Home Evening | Louise W. Madsen]
The Family Home Evening "You shall set in order your own house." (D&C 93:43.) aw In the early days of the Church, as recorded in the 93d Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord found it necessary to reprove "Frring ones, even though in high authority in the Church.'' He placed them under condemnation saying, ''You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction."' To several, including even the Prophet, he stated ''And now a commandment I give unto you you shall set in order your own house." '"'What I say unto one, I say unto all '' the Lord declared. As Latter-day Saints we firmly believe that the Lord speaks to us from the pages of scriptures, that, in speaking unto one he speaks unto all. He has found it necessary in these days to speak unto all through his prophets, the message, ''You shall set in order your own house."' As always when a commandment is given, a way is prepared through which it can be fulfilled. One excellent and approved way of setting our house in order is the Family Home Evening. Parents are commanded to teach their children (D&C 68) and the Lord further counsels ''... That little children also may receive instruction before me as Is pleasing unto me."' (D&C 55:4.) Wise, indeed, are parents who have initiated this practice while their children are small. It is now believed that the ages from two to five are the most important in the learning process. President McKay taught that children have established their most lasting 

, SecretaryTreasurer 264 habits before they are seven. The Lord has established the age of eight as the age of accountability. It follows, therefore, that the earlier the Family Home Evening becomes a family habit, the more impressive are the teachings of parents. One of the great commandments, ''Honour thy father and thy mother,"' is both a commandment and a responsibility. Responsibility lies with parents who endeavor to make themselves worthy of being honored by their children. Responsibility also lies with children to accept the guidance of parents. This relationship has its roots in family closeness which is fostered by the Family Home Evening program of the Church. So often we hear that some young people are losing respect for the older generation. Learning to respect parents and honor their teachings may come when children are convinced that father and mother know what they are talking about. A child who grows up knowing that his parents can and will answer his questions, take time to listen to him, and show love for him, will have respect ingrained in his character. Parents and children need to open their hearts to each other. Fortunate is the family which finds the' time and opportunity to do so. The Family Home Evening, with its program of gospel jnstruction, participation by every member of the family, involvement in learning together, building each other, satisfying the need of each for recognition and love, is divinely inspired. The women of Relief Society should be diligent proponents of the Family Home Evening. —L. W. M. Leone G. Layton Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Amy Y. Valentine Aleine M. Young Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Marian R. Boyer Alberta H. Christensen Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Orlene J. Poulsen Winniefred S. Manwaring Oa J. Cannon Lucile P. Peterson Marjorie M. Reeve Mary R. Young Lila B. Walch Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones Fanny S. Kienitz Lenore C. Gundersen ZelmaR. West Helen E. Lach Elizabeth B. Winters Marjorie C. Pingree Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Jennie R. Scott Darlene C. Dedekind Reba O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Luella W. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond Irene W. Buehner Ellen N. Barnes Norma B. Ashton Inez T. Waldron Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B. Skidmore 265 Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Sophie Leavitt, well-to-do mother of three adult children and author of a gourmet cookbook, learned that many welfare recipients were dumping their government-issue flour, dried milk, and other supplies. As a _ volunteer, she went around demonstrating to povertystricken wives how to make zesty meat and rice dishes, biscuits, cornbread and many other tasty items from government commodities. She talked on the radio and demonstrated for educational television. Her recipes now appear in cookbooks passed out to welfare recipients. This generous volunteer has transformed the lives of many women on welfare, handicapped by lack of knowledge and training. Portia Nelson paints, sings, plays the piano, coaches singers, writes lyrics, music and dramatic scripts for television and moving pictures. She has also been highly praised as an actress by eminent critics. She attributes her versatility to her childhood activities in a Latter-day Saint home and community on a ranch eighty miles north of Salt Lake City. ''Mormons believe you learn by doing, so their children get up and say a piece, or sing or play an instrument. I was putting on shows when I was just a child,'' says Miss Nelson. Dr. Mina Rees, who became a mathematician '"'because it was fun,'' has now been chosen the first woman president-elect of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. This is the largest scientific society in the United States. She also heads the graduate division of the University of New York. 266 Dr. Rita Hauser, thirty-four, of New York City, mother of two small children, is an international lawyer, linguist, and _ political economist. She and her husband, Gustave M. Hauser, were the first scholars sent from the United States to France in a new comparative law program sponsored by the Ford Foundation. Dr. Hauser believes dissent among college students, when nonviolent, is healthy, but it should be confined to ideas of genuine value to society. Under those conditions students should be listened to; their ideas merit consideration. Joan Beck, who writes a syndicated column read by millions, ''You and Your Child," has now written a challenging book, How to Raise a Brighter Child: The Case for Early Learning. This is called a ''blueprint'' for increasing your child's brain power without ''pushing."' Pamela Dee Tedesco, an active member of the Arcadia Ward, Pasadena Stake, California, and an honor student majoring in sociology at Pasadena City College, was chosen from among 474 contestants for the enviable role of Queen of the Tournament of Roses Parade on New Years Day, 1970. Flower floats of magnificent, highly imaginative artistry were entered from countless sources and America watched the astonishing procession. Pamela does volunteer work at Maryvale Girls Home, works at a department store, teaches a junior Sunday School class, and particularly enjoys her college institute class. She feels that her Church activities were an important element in preparing her to win this high distinction.