[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 252 | Special Feature | President Spencer W. Kimball to Serve As Acting President of the Council of the Twelve | ]
President Spencer W. Kimball to Serve As Acting President of the Council of the Twelve @ With the naming of President Harold B. Lee, senior member of the Council of the Twelve, to the First Presidency, E]- der Spencer Woolley Kimball has been named acting President of the ~ Council of the Twelve. President Kimball is a noteworthy speaker, especially among _ the younger members of the Church. He was ordained to the apostleship and sustained as a 'member of the Council of the Twelve in October of 1943, and has devoted his life since that time to being a special witness of Jesus Christ. President Kimball was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, March 28, 1895, one of eleven children of Andrew and Olive Woolley Kimball. One of his grandfathers, Heber C. Kimball, was a Counselor to President Brigham Young. His heritage is rich in devoted Church service. He was educated in the public schools and Gila Academy at Thatcher, Arizona, and at the University of Arizona. He has an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from Brigham Young University. President Kimball served a three-year mission in the Central States Mission, finishing his mission as a district president. Upon completion of his mission he returned to Arizona, where he met and married Camilla Eyring, November 17, 1918, in the Arizona DESERET NEWS PHOTOGRAPH I i Sister Kimball has been a devoted companion and helpmeet to Elder Kimball in his many important callings. Temple. They are the parents of three sons and one daughter: Mrs. Grant M. (Olive Beth) Mack, Spencer L., Andrew, and Edward Lawrence. There are twenty-seven grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. President Kimball has traveled widely among the Indians. He has been a delegate to national and international meetings in behalf of the Lamanites. Church members throughout the world will benefit from Elder Kimball's zeal and _ devotion to his new calling. 253 @ The boy had the pallor of one who is indoors too much; he was pudgy, slow moving, and somewhat effeminate in mannerisms. Even his fingers were pink and clean, giving no hint of the grime. Which usually comes with the ™ rr, rough and tumble activity com- %i3Y mon to most twelve-year-old boys. He was the only child of a widow who had showered him with attention and had clung to 4 him for comfort following the '3 death of her husband when the boy was young. The lad had been a frequent topic of anxious conversation between the bishop of his ward and the scoutmaster, both of whom felt he needed to be encouraged to form friends with other boys his age, and engage in activities provided for them. How could it best be accomplished? Scouting As a Preparation for Leadership President Belle S. Spafford A week's summer camping trip with the scout troop seemed a logical beginning, but the mother was sure her little boy could not endure the rigors of such an experience. Patient reassurance from the bishop and scoutmaster that extra care would be given him finally al- — layed her fears to the point she reluctantly gave permission for the boy to go. It was now the scoutmaster's turn to worry—with thirty other boys to watch over, how could he do justice to this one who needed so much individual attention? The answer was found in the person of one sixteen-year-old 254 Eagle Scout who volunteered to serve as a big brother to the younger boy. All during the week the Eagle carefully taught the Tenderfoot the wonders of nature, the freedom and exhilaration of the out-of-doors, the pleasure of developing physical dexterity, the joy of learning new skills, and of being one of the boys. According to those relating this experience, that camping trip with its opportunity for peer association and the special attention of the older scout was the turning point for the boy—it headed him toward manhood and helped his mother to recognize his need to be free to mature. Was scouting important in the life of this boy? Those who knew him said emphatically, "yes." One day not so many months ago two Relief Society leaders stood on a shabby street in the heart of one of the most dismal and hopeless ghettos in New York City. They had been escorted there by several national leaders of the Boy Scouts of America in order to observe a troup unit in action in that setting. The hour was the closing time for the school located at the top of an incline in the street upon which they stood. All of a sudden, a flood burst out onto the street—not of water but of children who came scuffling and tumbling from the school. As this wave of humanity came down the street threatening to engulf the two women and their hosts, it began disappearing, as if by magic. The children were absorbed into the poor, dilapidated buildings. In a few minutes here and there, one would see their little faces appear at the dingy windows high above the street. 2 The two Relief Society women were escorted inside the "troop shack," a somewhat utilitarian, ground floor room furnished with large tables, some benches, and shelving which seemed to hold unnumbered attractions for boys —books, arts and craft supplies, ropes, and other scout materials. The two women listened intently as the Puerto Rican scoutmaster for the area described in broken English the activities of his troop and the national scout leaders correlated these with the