[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 297 | Fiction | A Pan of Apples Mae | R. Winters]
Mae R. Winters m Spring was coming, not too soon to be sure, but the days were getting longer and we didn't have to go to school in the dark. One Saturday afternoon Mama decided it was time to get out the seed catalogues and send for the seeds and plants for the garden. These books had begun to arrive at our house soon after the Christmas mail. We often turned their pages and wished we had a garden of such beautiful flowers and weed-free vegetables. Despite all of our efforts, our garden and flower beds did not turn out so well. Papa and Mama were seated and we children stood behind and helped to choose and point as each page came into view. How good the pictures of the red radishes, green peas, and huge heads of cabbages looked. The irises and roses were something to behold, but did not hold our interest too long. A garden came first because it provided food for the large family that was ours. Papa suggested that along with seeds we should have red currants and gooseberry bushes. Then he turned the page and we saw the apples. Baskets and boxes of red and golden apples, some pictured hanging from the trees in beautiful perfection. It was just too much. "Mama, do you think that we could try an apple tree or two?" he asked. "Well," Mama was hesitant, "nerhaps a Yellow Transparent or a Winesap would mature and not freeze in our short season," she answered. She went on as if she, too, had been compelled by 

297 April 1970

 the display of apples in the seed books. "Let us send for six apple trees." The decision seemed to be final as decisions Mama made generally were. The order blank was filled in carefully and completely, the check made out and enclosed. Tom and I carried the letter to the mailbox to be picked up by the mail carrier the next day. The instructions had stated that the trees would arrive at the proper planting time. I really didn't know just what planting time they had reference to. I guess it meant Salt Lake Valley or Utah County, not up north where we lived. When the apple trees arrived by parcel post there was an inch or two of snow on the ground. A bitter cold wind was blowing from the very tops of the snowcapped mountains. Plant trees in this weather? The package was carried into the house and opened by the warmth of the kitchen. Brown limbs with a few scrawny roots at the bottom were a far cry from the pictures in the nursery books. Mama looked a little dejected. She read the paper enclosed in the package. If ground and weather conditions were not suitable for planting, the plants were to be put in a cool place in water until weather permitted planting. They stayed in our basement in a tub of water for three weeks. Then Mama decided, hot or cold, the trees must be put in the earth. Planting the trees was a ceremony in itself. All members of the family old enough to be out- 298 side took part. Papa went first with the shovel. The ground was still hard with frost, and it was no easy task to dig the holes. Papa dug, Mama followed with plants. Tom carried a bucket of water and poured a little into each hole. Papa shoveled the hard dirt back into the hole and firmed it gently around the tender roots. The children watched and surveyed the project. An irregular line of six apple trees was soon plainly visible. Warm weather and spring came to our valley. How good it was to open the kitchen door and let the clean, warm air in. The little ones, no longer under foot, were happy to play out of doors. If we children had forgotten about our apple orchard, Mama and Papa had not. Every few days they would go out to the trees and examine each one for any signs of growth. Several weeks passed, and then little green shoots were visible coming out along the brown stems of four of them. Two looked dead and they were. The remaining little trees put on good growth that summer and by fall were healthy looking. We learned from a neighbor who had lived for a time in Washington where apple raising was a business, that it took four or five years to produce fruit. We children lost interest. Green peas in pods and crisp sweet carrots claimed our attention. The summers came and went. Two more prize trees were killed by animals. Just two remained to remind us of our venture. It happened the last of May just before Memorial Day! Pink and white blossoms came out on each twig and stem of the two trees. They were beautiful to behold after a long cold winter. It seemed as if they had come to tell us that spring had come again. The trees were small but indeed, "popcorn on the apple tree." I asked Mama if we could pick a bouquet for grandma's grave. She replied, '"'No, each flower means an apple. Grandma would understand." On Memorial Day a cold wind blew from the north. That night Papa built a fire in the new fireplace to warm us up after our trip to the cemetery. No doubt about it there was going to be a frost. We would go out and cover the precious trees with blankets. Tom and I knew who the "we" meant, so we put on our coats, scarves, and gloves. As we stepped out into the cold wind it seemed to pierce our very bones. Papa said, "We may as well go back to the house. A few blankets will not keep out this frost." "We can try," urged Mama. She kept right on going to the garden, the blankets dragging behind. Papa, Tom, and I tried to keep up with her. There was no stopping Mama when she decided. We followed behind, freezing as we went. The experience of trying to drape blankets around a tree with the wind blowing a fortymile gale, with hands and face freezing until they were numb, is a never to be forgotten one. The blankets couldn't be adjusted or made to stay in place. We did the best we could. Papa shook his head as we went back to the house and fire, muttering along the way, "Won't do a bit of good." The following morning, along with other perishable crops, the blossoms on our trees were frozen stiff. The sun came out and they all turned brown and dropped off. "Maybe next year things will be difterent," Papa said. It is the hope of another year that keeps farmers from giving up. "Yes," Mama spoke _reassuringly, "let us not complain, we have so many things for which to be grateful." Mama was like that, always looking on the bright side, giving 

299 April 1970

 comfort especially where Papa was concerned. It could be a pan of apples, a field of grain destroyed or a drop in the price of eggs. She would give Papa a pat on the back and with a sweet smile say, "Our children are healthy and strong and we have many of them to bless us. We will manage." The following spring was a wonderful warm season. The sun came out bright melting the snow from the nearby mountains. Water ran in little rivulets into the yard and down the path and the roads. We picked buttercups on our way home from school. One day we saw a robin and stopped to watch her pull a big fat worm from the earth. The apple trees were again white and pink in their new spring dresses edged in gay green. It did not freeze. By the end of July little green apples hung from every twig and — branch of the apple trees. When they were no larger than marbles Tom and I took a salt shaker out under the trees to sample a few. Mama didn't let on that she knew. They were sour and hard, but with a generous amount of salt sprinkled on each bite no one complained of a stomach-ache. They came from our very own trees and how we did enjoy them! The apples grew and Mama thought we could pick a panful for apple dumplings. Mama's apple dumplings made from green apples were a long-remembered treat. Each piece of rich dough would be rolled thin as paper and as large as your hand extended wide from the little finger to the thumb measured on the dough 300 itself. The apples were peeled, quartered, and sliced, then mixed with sugar and cinnamon. A generous amount of butter went into the center of each square of dough, along with the apple mixture. The corners of the dough were pulled together around the filing and dropped into hot water and cooked until fluffy and tender. Served with cream, they were a dish fit for the table of a I king. Pie for Sunday dinner came from another pan of apples. Fresh applesauce was the treat on another occasion. It was time to harvest our crop, that is, what there was left of it. Each golden apple was picked as carefully as if it had been an egg and laid in a box. I was sent to the house for a pan. Soon I found out why. "Carry these to widow Taylor," Mama directed. Off went one of the boys with the fruit and returned with the empty pan. Once again it was filled. "These go over to Martha's and Will's house," said Mama. Tom ran to our neighbor on the north and returned again with the empty pan. When four such trips had been made, I opened my mouth to object. "Five years. For apples and give them away?" "Hush," chided mama. "Think of the fine meals we have had already, waiting for them to ripen." "There is such satisfaction in growing one's food," spoke Mama as we carried one last pan of apples to the house. "We shall invite Ed and Mary over for Sunday dinner and have apple pie.' Mama's voice was happy. Papa followed her in. Hobby Feature ought joy to many through her handwork. Although quilting is her favorite pastime, she also does beautiful crocheting and embroidering. Sister Crow has donated countless quilts to Relief Society bazaars, and her intricate crocheted tablecloths and bedspreads have caught many an eye. She has served as quilting chairman in Relief Society, helping many others to learn this art. Sister Crow is the mother of eight children, she has twenty-three grandchildren and five great grandchildren, in whom she takes great delight. "oe q + F 'i * 7 j \ ve: —_— —_—= oe = Clara Lewis Hall, McCammon Ward, Portneuf Stake, Idaho, has used her writing talent to enrich the lives of her many friends and family members, as well as to contribute to the community and to the Church building funds. A beautifully written history of McCammon, complete with pictures, was researched and compiled by Sister Hall. The bishopric sponsored the publication, and proceeds went toward furnishing an organ for the chapel. She has fifty volumes of her work to be passed on to her family. Her writing includes family histories, poems, words to songs, and religious pageants. In addition to her writing, Sister Hall has made lovely quilts for each of her nine children, all of her grandchildren, and great-grandchildren, and is currently making them for her eight great-great grandchildren.; She has served for sixty-seven years as a visiting teacher, and has achieved 100 per cent during this current year and many other times.