[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 275 | Special Feature | A Place in the Picture— Second Prize Story Sara | Brown Neilson]
Second Prize Story A Place In the Picture w Are mothers really afraid of their teenagers? I asked my inner-self as I listened to the exposed motor in Dave's strippeddown car-version roar his exit to school. That was what a psychologist had said at the PTA lecture last night. It was true I had stood silently by as Dave skipped breakfast again and brushed past me in ragged jeans, Over-run desert boots, and a clean, but grease-stained Tshirt; knowing full well he had a math test and that an empty stomach produced low blood Sugar detrimental to clear thinkIng. If he had to dress that way, I thought with indignation, it might make some sense. I sighed and started clearing the breakfast dishes. Scraping out good food had always been against my conservative nature and I Sara Brown Neilson automatically picked up a fork to salvage some of the highly nutritious, almost cold food that I had hopefully prepared for Dave. I wasn't fond of scrambled egg, but choked it down, thinking of the garbage-disposal alternative. Why hadn't I made him get up earlier so he could eat? Why hadn't I insisted he wear some of the respectable clothes that bulged his closet, and done something about the straggling hair, sloppy posture, and weird new philosophies he was analyzing? Could that psychologist possibly be right? Maybe, with all the talk of generation-gap and youth-rebellion, I was afraid to take a stand. 

275 April 1970

 Thinking through problems had always been part of washing the breakfast dishes, while my mind was still rested and fresh, but this morning even motion seemed distracting. I sank onto a kitchen chair, cupped my chin in the palm of my hand, and stared unseeing out the window. Painfully and with care I began a review of my relationship with Dave to see just what my place was in his picture. Scrutinizing his activities, attitudes, and reactions, left me with the shocking realization that I really didn't have a place —I just didn't count! Sure, I washed clothes, prepared meals, took telephone messages, and cleaned his room, but any stranger could do that. And my concerned love in doing it didn't 276 w count for much, since he wasn't even aware it existed. A hollow wave of longing left me reminiscing the place of honor I used to hold in his life —the main reason for most of the things he did—telling the truth, eating his carrots, swallowing his medicine—all to please Mom. Now he went into a detailed analysis of the scientific, psychological value of truth-telling when I mentioned it, refused to consume even one carrot, and decided for himself if the medicine I prescribed was necessary. Desperately I groped for the memories of a long-ago picnic, when we had strolled leisurely through the woods discovering gold-flecked stones, shed snakeskins, or an injured bird to fix; and for the precious hours spent together on rainy days when we had molded clay into funny animals or built houses from diced potatoes and toothpicks. I ached for the satisfaction I had felt in teaching him patriotism and honor while we made soldier hats and three-dimensional stars for the neighborhood parade. Of course, my place of importance had started shrinking to make room for sports with Dad, outings with the scoutmaster, practicing with his guitar teacher and goofing around with his friends. And I had been willing, even anxious, for each new experience in his growth. But, did I have to become a nonentity? Couldn't I fit in some place? Where had I lost out? A glance at the clock spurred me to action and I continued analyzing to the accompaniment of running water and clinking dishes. Stabs of self-pity needled me as I reviewed Dave's present efforts to please everyone else —fix the tape recorder for a friend, sell tickets for a counselor, wash cars for the club. No longer did it matter what Mom thought, or felt, or needed. My influence was gone. "No, Mr. Psychologist," I said aloud to the draining dish water, "this mother isn't afraid of her teenager; she just doesn't exist in his life—except for maid service, that is!" My day went with the usual housewife routines, and I was just finishing a batch of cookies when a roar sounded in the driveway. Dave shuffled in depositing a few mud clods along the way and sprinkling fresh sawdust from the cuffs of his pants. It was obvious he had stayed after A Place in the Picture school for a track work-out to please the coach. Dropping his books on the table, he slouched down on a chair and started munching one of the still warm cookies that were spread out in front of him to cool. How many times had I asked him to clean his feet and shake his cuffs after a work-out? He knew the table wasn't for books—after all I had provided him with a nice desk. He could see it was nearly dinnertime and knew late nibbling irritated me. Then, there were the two freshly ironed shirts I had found in a heap on his bed, apparently discarded in favor of the grease-stained 'T-shirt. I bore my resentments in silence. "Hey, Mom, did you ever return that stuff I borrowed from Craig?" he muttered between chews. "No, kinda thought you would take care of it," I said, knowing full well it would be left for me. There just hadn't been time from my maid service to do it, I thought bitterly, but I had certainly stumbled over it enough times! Still heaped in his room was the unpacked gear he had used on a week's fishing trip down the Snake River before school started. That had been a full two weeks ago and I was still trying to outwait him. I hated being reminded of the trip because it had terrified me. Knowing the dangers of Snake River, with its swift currents, unannounced falls, and sharp rocks, gave me sleep-shattering nightmares of black, rushing waters swallowing him up, canoe and all. "Boys have to live with some danger," his father had gently 

277 April 1970

 reminded me, "that's part of growing up. He's a good swimmer and will wear a life-jacket for extra protection." My fears were smothered back in muteness, knowing it didn't matter what I thought, anyway. The sleepless nights persisted, however, and I had even considered resorting to tranquilizers. Instead I took up night nibbling to ease the sickening fear-waves in my stomach, and gained back the five pounds I had struggled to lose. My face showed signs of wear and strain, in spite of the additional weight, and the week he was gone seemed endless. When we unexpectedly heard his familiar voice in the driveway a night earlier than scheduled, the blessed relief left me with a mad urge to rush outside and smother him with kisses. Knowing his distaste for emotional demonstration, I forced myself to follow nonchalantly behind his father and greet him with a casual peck on the cheek. "Hi, we've missed you; how was the trip?" "Groovy, Mom. That river is something else! Can't say as how I wish we were just leaving, though, it wasn't exactly easy don't think [ll get up for a month... Good 'ole shower here I come!" He had disappeared around the corner and I knew I'd had it. That was all—the only report I would get of a whole trip. He looked thin and parched and I longed to comfort him. He must have lost pounds! I followed him into the house and automatically turned to the refrigerator. 278 Looking at him now, the picture of health munching on a cookie, I decided he had recuperated completely. A brief knock turned our attention to the back door. Craig had already stuck his head inside. "Anybody home?" "Come on in," Dave invited, "Tl bet you're after a fishing reel, hunting knife, and mess kit! Just thought maybe I could stall around until you came." "That's what I figured, and I hated letting you get the best of me, but my uncle is in town and wants the stuff to go fishing." I I ave wiped his mouth on his sleeve and pushed back the chair. "Have some cookies while I go unload my pack and find it. They're great while they're still warm." I smiled my approval and indicated a chair at the table. "How about some milk with them?" "Don't mind if I do thanks, they smell great!" I poured the milk and then picked up a potato to peel. "Hey, that was really a close one Dave had, wasn't it?" Craig said, taking a big swallow. "Guess you feel pretty lucky he's even here." I looked at him curiously. "Close one?" "You mean he didn't even tell you about that hairy ordeal on the river? What a jerk! Just like me, though, hate to make a big deal out of anything." A chill gripped me! So, the nightmares hadn't been' unfounded. "What happened?" I asked struggling for composure. "Well, it was sure sweaty! I still get shook up when I think about it! We were going down the river in a swift current—you know—really swift — when we hit some rapids. It was pretty rough and a kid's canoe turned over in the banging around. He tried to grab onto a rock, but the rushing water took him on over the falls. When we could see he was having a struggle, Dave wotked his way down and went in after him. [ll tell you, that took guts the rest of us were afraid! Well, anyway, pretty soon the kid made it to the bank with the help of his lifejacket, but, golly, Dave was no place to be seen. His life-jacket had been ripped off by the sharp rocks and the falling water kept forcing him under!": I dug deep into the potato and gripped it tighter. "How long was he down there?" "Seemed forever to us, I'll tell you! We started going in to look for him, but the water was so swift it smashed us on the rocks and we had to pull out in a few seconds." He took another swallow of milk and I could feel the thump of my pounding heart. "Well, anyway, as you ve probably guessed, he didn't drown. One of us finally spotted him going downstream and rushed out to get him. We could hardly believe our eyes! And you know what? I guess you're the one that really saved his life." By this time I had forgotten my reserve and was hovering over him eagerly searching his face. "What do you mean?" He shifted his weight uneasily, conscious of my nearness, » "Well... A when the falling water kept pushing him back under he was getting desperate and almost out of air. He made another try and still another, until his breath was all gone and things started going black. He was scared, really scared, you know, thinking it was the end and all, but right then— it was funny, he said he heard your voice from when he was just a little kid, telling him never to give up—that the time to fight hardest is when you think you're licked. So he made one more desperate lunge and came up just clear of the falls!" My hands were damp and I could feel perspiration dotting my forehead as Dave appeared in the doorway with the borrowed things. Seeming to sense the impact of the moment, he hesitated, appraising the situation. Then he looked deep into my misty eyes and gradually I felt a bond of understanding warmth flow between us—the 

279 April 1970

 stirring of a realization that our lives were deeply entwined with the years of learning and sharing. The petty slights, my desires for attention, and the daily irritations had dulled my sensitivity to his true worth and goodness. I was housing a precious soul under this roof—a boy who, in the midst of conflict, frustration, and varied forces, was emerging in his own way with courage, solid values, and a strong regard for my teachings—a boy whose very life I had played a part in saving! Craig gave Dave a punch in the ribs and opened the door to leave. "Next time I'll outwait you!" "Don't count on it," Dave called after him and then slouched back down on the chair to reach for another cookie. I handed him the warmest one I could find and picked up his books to carry to the desk. On the way I patted the top of his head. So there were a few mud clods on the floor, and a couple of shirts to be pressed... What were mothers for, anyway? SARA BROWN NEILSON (author of ''A Place in the Picture,'' Second Prize Story) "The Relief Society Short Story Contest of 1968 inspired my real beginning in writing, and I have found it to be a hobby that offers great challenge and fulfillment. 'A Place in the Picture' is my fourth story to be accepted for publication in the past two years, one having appeared in the January 1970 issue of The Improvement Era. 'lam a graduate of Utah State University in Logan, and presently serve as Education Counselor in the Pasadena Stake Relief Society presidency. My husband, Keith, serves on the High Council, and we are blessed with three children: Nancy, living in the San Francisco area with her husband David Waldvogel, who attends dental school; Bob, a senior at Brigham Young University, and David, a freshman at BYU. '"'Much of the credit for my writing success goes to my wonderful family who have given me warm and meaningful experiences that inspire writing material." IMPROBABILITY You mean to tell me that it's true One day my floors will be Free from sand, spilled milk, and crumbs, From scattered toys? Honestly? No crayon pictures on the wall? No baby bottles? None at all? No frightened cry to waken me? No sticky handprints? Really? No trikes, or bikes, or roller skates? No kiddie quarrels to arbitrate? No Sunday pants with hole in knee? No more mending? Absurdity! No lessons, practice, little league? No crumbs? No sand? No fatigue? No dentists, braces, cavity? Why then, I'd have no family! —Oneita B. Sumsion New Season For Christy @ It was Sunday afternoon and Susan Barnes was walking to church. The day had been perfect, Susan reflected. Everything had gone smoothly and the old house had rung with laughter and happiness. It wasn't often that everyone could be home at the same time, but they had each made a special effort in order to welcome Christy home from Europe where she had_ been studying art. Susan enjoyed having her family home and seeing the change in them. Maturity sat well on those who were now parents, and the grandchildren changed with the rapidity that is peculiar to the very young. And yet the biggest change was in Christy! Feeling the need for some quiet time, Susan had left her family preparing for church. Joan B. Kearl Soon they would join her to partake of the sacrament together and listen to Christy who was the speaker this evening. She admired the brilliant splashes of color on the mountains that made such a magnificent backdrop for the old chapel. Lawns, too, were washed with color where leaves had started to feather down into bright heaps. She felt a sense of sadness. This was the end of autumn; the earth was turning toward winter. Slipping quietly into the center of the third row where she would be able to look into Christy's face later, she looked around the empty chapel. Here, too, was evidence of change. Soon they would meet in the 

281 April 1970

 new building and some of the familiar things had _ already been moved. The feeling of sadness persisted. Why did things have to end? She wondered. 'T he five days since Christy's return had been hectic. The phone rang constantly, friends dropped in, Christy went out. Never time for mother and daughter 'to have a serious talk in all the hubbub. Susan needed the peace she always felt in the chapel. She needed time to meditate. Now she closed her eyes and let her mind drift back over the twenty years since Christy had arrived at the Barnes home. From the start she had been different from the other six children. Refusing to wait until Susan could get to the hospital, Christy had been born in the big bed at home. And this had seemed to set the pattern for her life—impatient, impulsive, independent. Susan remembered vividly the little girl who insisted, "Mama, Christy do. Me dress me." And it hadn't taken long before she had mastered the art. She loved nursery school and kindergarten, her quicksilver mind absorbing everything. The years' from diapers to high school had flown by in a mixture of short and long, long and short, that included everything from limbs to hair, dresses to telephone calls. Name the skill or talent and Christy had it. She had been loved, trained, and exhibited by her family since she first rolled over from her round little tummy onto her back. Susan remembered the first 282 time she had been afraid. Christy made the honor roll in high school without even trying, and then Susan realized that things came too easily for her daughter. Whatever it was Christy wanted, Christy got. There had never been a time when she'd had to sacrifice or do without in her whole life. How could she learn to give of herself or really care about others this way? Bob's death had been a test. He and Christy had always delighted in each other. At the hospital he had explained, as only he could, all of Christy's heartrending "why's." Now Susan felt her throat tighten as she remembered Christy's _ bright head on the pillow beside her father's bandage-swathed one. She had gone to the window and turned her back because it was nearly more than she could bear to watch them. "Kitten," Bob's voice was soft but Susan could still hear the words. "Kitten, your mother made a heaven on earth for me. Choose your partner wisely when your time comes." His voice grew weaker. "Remember, this life isn't the end for us." Christy was grief -—stricken after the funeral. For days she refused to see her friends, answering the phone. She grew peaked and pale. Susan was grateful when Christy made a great effort and slowly pulled herself together, but it was a long time before things were back to normal. And then one day Christy brought Don Taylor home to meet her mother. Susan had known, just from the way Christy looked, that Don was special. He not even — came from a wealthy Philadelphia family, his manners were charming, and he was devoted to Christy. The two young people spent all their spare time together and Susan was happy with the way things were going. That is, until she found out that Don wasn't a member of the Church. She cautioned Christy to go slowly, emphasizing the importance of temple Marriage. "Don't worry, Mom," Christy said, putting her arm around Susan's shoulders. "Don loves me and I know he'll join the Church for me." Susan was shocked. "Darling," she said, "when he joins the Church it must be because he knows it is true, and for that reason only." A New Season for Christy But Christy had already made her plans. A few nights later, when she went to say goodnight after a date, she held out her left hand to show the beautiful diamond that sparkled on her third finger. "We're going to be married in six weeks, Mom. Not a very big wedding. Mostly family and close friends. We're going to phone the Taylors in the morning." Susan felt the bitter taste of panic rising in her throat. Impulsive, independent, impatient Christy. So young, so sure of herself. "Yes, your ring is_ lovely, dear." She tried to keep her voice steady. "I know youre excited, but you have got to get some sleep now." Reaching for her robe April 1970 and_ slippers, Susan couldn't remember when she had felt so cold. "I'll fix you a glass of warm milk to help you relax. You get ready for bed and [ll bring it in to you." After she kissed Christy, Susan lay wide awake in the big bed. Never before had it seemed so empty.. Never before had she needed Bob so much. Slipping to her knees she poured out her doubts and fears to the Lord, praying long and earnestly for courage and wisdom. Finally, exhausted and cold, but without the earlier feeling of panic, she returned to her bed. In the early hours of morning she drifted into sleep. The next few days she talked with Christy many times, but always the answer was the same— 'We love each other and want to be married now." Once Christy even accused her of "wanting to hang on to me." Seeing the hurt look on Susan's face, she had apologized immediately. "I'm sorry, Mother. I didn't mean that." "All ''m asking is that you wait a little while. Until you know each other better," Susan said. "If you really love each other it isn't necessary to rush into marriage. True love lasts." But Christy existed in a romantic haze all her own, impervious to the outside world. "IT can convert Don after were married and we can still go to the temple, Mom," she said. "Don't worry so much. Everything will work out just fine. It always does." But Susan couldn't share her daughter's optimism. "Christy," she said, "will you 284 fast and pray with me tomorrow? Please, dear. Let us take this to the Lord." And because Christy loved her mother and had never been willfully disobedient, she agreed. 'The follaming nia Geeue awakened from the first real sleep she'd had in_ several nights. Christy was standing by the bed. "What is it, dear?" Susan turned on the light. "Are you all right?" "Something woke me up.