[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 257 | Special Feature | Award Winners— Relief Society | Poem Contest]
Relief Society Poem Contest. The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Virginia Maughan Kammeyer, Alderwood Manor, Washington, for her poem, ''Afterglow."' The thirty dollars for second place goes to Hazel Loomis, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem 'Winds of San Juan.'' Twenty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her third prize poem ''Apples of Gold."' The poem contest is conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society. It was first begun in 1923. It is open to all Latter-day Saint women and is designed to encourage and promote creative poetry writing among the sisterhood of the Church. Prize-winning poems become the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and may not be used for publication by others except by permission of the General Board in writing. The Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted to the contest, paying for them at the time of publication. A writer who has received first place for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. This contest has become international in scope, with 415 entries received from many parts of the world. Entries were received from England, Australia, Canada, South Africa, Scotland, Ireland, New Zealand, Austria, and Guatemala. From the United States, thiry-nine States were represented, with large numbers of poems coming from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, and Florida. The winners are congratulated by the General Board and appreciation is expressed to all entrants. Mrs. Kammeyer is a first-time winner in the contest, but her poetry has appeared several times before in the Magazine. Mrs. Loomis is familiar to our readers, having placed once before in the contest, and having had her work appear many times. Mrs. Bailey has placed eight times in the poem contest, and her poems and stories appear often in the Magazine. She has placed four times in the story contest. The General Board extends its appreciation to the judges and to the members of the Board who served on the contest committee. The prizewinning poems, together with brief historical sketches of the winners are published in this issue.