Deseret News

The February Magazine is an especially excellent issue. I have tried the sourdough

recipes (by Edythe K. Watson) and my family thoroughly enjoys them. I especially enjoyed

the address by Queen Halaevalu Mata'aho of Tonga— "Weaving the Fabric of

Home Life." The essay "The Creek Taught Me," by Anny M. Campbell had a meaning

for me also, for we had a similar experience that seemed to bring our family closer

together. I read several of the articles to my husband and we have shared the ideas

presented in the February Magazine. Barbara L. Oliphant, Ivins, Utah

The article "Always Set a Good Table" (by Betty Jan Murphy) in the January Magazine

really hit home with me. Sometimes my table has been looking like the one with the

carton of milk, ketchup bottle, etc. Since reading the article I have made an "all-out"

effort to make my table as attractive as possible. Aside from my family's compliments,

I have been surprised to see the hundred per cent improvement in my seven-year-old's

table manners, and a more relaxed atmosphere at the dinner table.

Fran Pacifico, Parkside, Pennsylvania

I love the lessons, stories, poems, homemaking ideas, pictures, and recipes featured in

the Magazine. Sometimes I am tempted to cut some of the recipes out when I don't

have time to copy them— but that would spoil the Magazine which I want to keep

nice looking. Mrs. Verna K. Johnson, Idaho Falls, Idaho

The Magazine comes to me as a gift from a dear friend, Mrs. Nancy Anderson of

Norwalk, California. Every issue is just wonderful from cover to cover. The articles,

stories, and poems are inspiring; the art layouts and illustrations are delightful. Many

of the recipes have become family favorites. Most precious to me, though, are the

lessons. I am not a member of your Church, but four of our seven children are active

and enthusiastic Latter-day Saints. It is my constant and fervent prayer that some

day it will be possible for the rest of my family, including myself, to be baptized into

the Church. Beth Raehl, Larsen, Wisconsin

The February issue of the Magazine has just been most carefully and eagerly read—

and what wonderful things I found to feed my soul. The words of wisdom from the

Queen of Tonga were so beautifully expressed and so true. I was thrilled to read her

words and wondered why I had never heard the relationship in the home expressed

before in just this simple and forceful way. Thank you also for adding my poem

("On Priorities") at the end of the article. It was a real honor to me.

Mabel Gabbott, Bountiful, Utah

How happy I was to read the article written by Sister Tuddenham about "Granny"

in the October Magazine. It brought back such lovely memories of our association with

her and the sisters of the Cairns Branch of the Australian Mission. I remember the

very evening the dance was given. Each branch had prepared a number to bring

to the district conference for a Saturday evening performance. What a hit Granny

made with her "troupe." We all learned to love Granny.

taurine A. Ensign, Fresno, California

What a wonderful message to wives and mothers is given in the February Magazine

by the Queen of Tonga, Halaevalu Mata'aho. Surely her husband must love her very

much. Thanks to the sisters who work in the worthwhile endeavors that help countless

women the world over. Go/die L. Stark, Pocatello, Idaho

Please send me The Relief Society Magazine. I am not of your faith, but I do enjoy

the stories, recipes, and the ideas each month. I have been reading Mary Beagley's

Magazines, so I am sure I shall enjoy the ones of my own subscription, and I will

pass them on to my neighbors. Mrs. Donald Fitch, Travis A.F.B., California