[Vol57 | April 1970 | Page 290 | General Feature | Gifts Designed With Little Girls in Mind Edythe | K. Watson]
—Kathleen Fulton ° ° @ Is there anything more exciting Gifts Designed than a_three-year-old's birthday ° > party? What can bring more pleasure With Little than making a gift for that special °.. Event? New and clever ideas for such Girls in Mind gifts are not easy to discover. Those Edythe K. Watson, Member shown in the accompanying pictures General Board of Relief Society were found to be especially appreciated. PHOTOGRAPHY BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS BE - TOWEL, ROBE bh 4 é o 3%" wn" ¢ ° & S oO z — 6" 2" 3%" TOWEL ROBE The colorful towel robe is made from just one towel. It is a simple "butterfly" pattern with few seams and requiring little sewing. A child would especially enjoy it for after bath drying or as an after-swim robe. The one in the picture was made for a little girl, but with a few minor changes, it could be used for small boys as well. Choose a fringe-edged towel of medium weight, 21 by 45 inches in size. Fold the towel in half, right side out, and mark the center with a pin or tailor tack (221% inches on either side of mark). Bring the two fringed ends together at the center. Fold each end back to a width of 2 inches, including fringe. Place the right side on top of left side to form the front opening. Pin together until the cutting process is completed. Measure 6 inches from the top on both sides and cut down to make ends of sleeves. At the bottom of the 6-inch cut, measure 314, inches toward center front and cut each side carefully. This completes the front part of the sleeve. 

290 April 1970

 Container: Yarn: 1 quart or 1 pt. 6 oz. Oval liquid dishwashing detergent bottle Measure 3y," up from the bottom. Mark, and cut away and discard top part. Punch about 24 holes around the top edge. (I used a paper punch. The holes were easier to punch after the container had been soaked in hot water.) 4-ply nylon or wool in the colors of your choice. One of the bags pictured is white with blue trim, and the other is pink with white trim. Crochet Hook: H lst row: 2nd row: 2 single crochet in each hole around. Slip stitch into Ist. Chain 3. 1 double crochet in each single crochet around. Join. Chain 3. 3rd, 4th, 5th rows: Same as second row. 6th row: 7th row: 8th row: 1 double crochet in same space. Chain 1. 2 double crochet in same space. (Shell made.) Skip 2 double crochet, shell in next double crochet, continue around. Join to top of 3d single crochet. Slip stitch to center of shell, make shell in center of shell of previous round. Continue around. Join. Use contrasting color for trim. Repeat 7th row. Join. Hood for the Bassinet: Turn inside out and down to form the skirt of the bassiCord: Pompon: 292 net. Fasten the end of the yarn to the inside top, near center. Crochet 1 single crochet in next stitch, 17 double crochet in following stitches. 1 single crochet. 1 slip stitch. Chain 1, turn. Slip stitch in single crochet. 1 single crochet. 2 double crochet in next stitch. 1 double crochet in each of next 12 double crochet. 2 double crochet in next stitch. 1 single crochet. 1 shp stitch. Chain 1. Turn. Slip stitch in next 3 stitches. Single crochet in next 3. Double crochet in next 6. Single crochet in next 3. Slip stitch in next 3 and fasten off. Cut yarn (2 pieces) 11/4, yards long (do not stretch yarn). Twist or crochet. Thread through Ist round of shells coming out on one side. Repeat for the other side. Cut 2 cardboard circles 1!/, inches in diameter. Cut a hole in the center of these 2 circles '/,-inch in diameter. Cut 2 two-yard lengths of yarn, being careful not to stretch the yarn as you measure. Place cardboard circles together and wind yard around the double circles, drawing yarn through center opening and over edge until wool is used up. Cut yarn around outer edges between circles. Slip the 6-inch length of yarn between the 2 cardboard circles and tie securely around strands of pompon. Remove cardboard circles. Make four pompons. Sew on sides of bassinet and on cord ends. SUNRISE IN LA PAZ * All rosy-pink and charcoal-gray the sky Blent into blue... Such beauty makes one take A moment to give thanks that such as I Was blessed to see ''the peace' of morning break.