[WomansExponent | Vol2 | 1873 | April | Issue: 21 | Title: FACTS AND FIGURES. | Author: ﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

		FACTS AND FIGURES.
	It is estimated that the population of New
Orleans is 239,985.
	Miss Hannah Drury has bought a 2220 acre
plantation in North Carolina.
	A 299-year old newspaper of Stockholm,
Sweden, circulates 15,000 copies daily.
	Many negroes who left Georgia for Missis-
sippi are returning to their old homes.
	"John Smith" of Chicago has sent $600
to the United States Treasurer's Conscience
Fund.
	According to an Ohio mathematician, one
man dies from the use of alcohol every sev-
en minutes.
[Column 2]
	A club of farmers in Chesterfield, Ill., takes
$100 worth of magazines and newspapers
annually.
	A New Jersey man claims a clear profit
on seventy chickens and nineteen ducks,
last year, of $77.
	Five districts in Chester County, Pennsyl-
vania, have elected women to the office of
school directors.
	A tract of land in Missouri containing 40,
000 acres has been bought for a party of
French emigrants.
	There is trouble in the Kansas Agricul-
tural College. Three professors have been
retired by the Board of Regents. The stu-
dents are indignant.
	Minnesota is losing the Scandinavian em-
migration, which is drifting to Kansas, Ne-
braska and Colorado.
	President Grant recommends liberal ap-
propriations by congress of the Philadelphia
Centennial Exposition.
	Upward of 2,500 men have deserted from
the army while stationed in the Pacific States
and Territories since 1871.
	A Mississippi legislator introduced a bill
prohibiting the sale of liquor within five
miles of the State University.
	Mr. Ruskin advocates the purchase by the
National Gallery of a splendid Madonna by
Raphael. The cost will be £40,000.
	Mrs. Sarah E. Beard, Fayetteville, N. Y.,
has given $5000 to Hamilton College as a
fund for the aid of needy students.
	The proudest man in the United States is
in Montgomery, Pa. He carried off 42 pre-
miums at the Doylston Poultry Show.
	Yale College is to have a new chapel, a
plain, but substantial stone structure, seat-
ing 1,200 persons, and costing $120,000.
	A movement to celebrate the Centennial
by a grand exposition in Washington, to be
confined to the United States, is talked of.
	Mr. Gerrett Smith has given, free of con-
ditions, the sum of $10,000 for the benefit of
Hamilton College, of which he is a graduate.
	The Queen, at the recommendation of
Gladstone, has granted a pension of $1,000
per annum to the children of Dr. Living-
stone.
	The statue of Mr. Seward will be shipped
to New York in the spring of 1875. It will
cost $25,000 nearly all of which has been
subscribed.
	Some of the New Hampshire Patrons of
Husbandry are buying flour at $8.25 per bbl.
by the car-load, whereas they had to pay $11
per bbl. for the same article at retail.
	Robert W. Scott of Kentucky states that
he has sold the wool of Angora goats through
the agency of several New York commission
merchants at from 60c. to $1.25 per pound.
	At a recent exhibition in Zanesville, Ohio,
a wedding-dress worn in 1788 was exhibited.
The waist was about two inches long, but
what astonished the ladies most was that
the dress contained only two and a half
yards of silk.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


