[WomansExponent | Vol1 | 1872 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: LIKES AND DISLIKES. | Author: Unknown]

﻿LIKES AND DISLIKES.
			—	
	It is so easy to form an opinion of a per-
son at first sight that we often do so, almost 
without knowing it. Even a theatrical per-
former will impress the audience with ei-
ther a favorable or an unfavorable sentiment
upon first appearance. Very frequent chan-
ges occur in our minds in relation to these 
things.  We may first see an actor represent
a mean, low, drunken character, which so
disgusts us that we can scarcely help feeling
an absolute dislike for the man who can so
well and naturally personify so degraded a
creature. But when he plays "Claude Mel-
notte," or “Matthew Bates,” and does it
well, we are apt to think he must possess
some nobleness of soul or he could not so
well display it, even on the stage. Yet in
either case the impression created may be
erroneous.
  The likes and dislikes which we form of
individuals passing to and fro on the great
stage of life, are just as liable to be wrong
as are those formed of the different casts in
a play.  We may be fairly dazzled at times
with a smooth-tongued, fine-looking hum-
bug, and ruthlessly slight a real, genuine,
noble man.


"Col. Horace Scott, Superintendent of the
Jeffersonville road, owns a dog that sits
upon a piano-stool, touches the keys with
the finest precision, rattles off ‘Shoo Fly’
and other pieces scientifically with his feet
upon the keys, and imitates a song with a
howl that undergoes all the musical inflic-
tions."  We decline to believe that while
there are anp sea-serpent stories to resurrect
and tackle to.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	L. L. GREENE, Editor.
   Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
   Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
  Address all business communications to
			Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
	SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 1, 1872.


