[Vol51 | April 1964 | Page 253 | Special Feature | The Worth of The Relief Society Magazine T. | Bowring Woodbury]
[The Worth of The Relief Society Magazine T. Bowring Woodbury]

The Worth of the Relief Society Magazine

T. Bowring Woodbury
Former President, British Mission

YOUR wonderful increase in Magazine subscriptions over last year is a great record, and attests to the devotion and dedication of the leadership group which I am privileged to address today. However, as I look at this outstanding body of women, I am reminded of the story of the Washington, D.C., tourist who was being driven in the cab around the city. As they came to one Federal building, over the archway were the words, "The past prologues the future." As the tourist pondered those words, he finally asked the cab driver what they meant. The "cabbie" replied, "That simply means, 'You ain't heard nuthin' yet.'" And, I believe, as outstanding as the increase for this year is, "we ain't heard nuthin' yet," as far as you sisters are concerned.

I am always impressed as I read the 12th Chapter of Revelation, and John recalls to us the great war in heaven when Satan and his angels were cast out, that this did not end the war; the battleground merely changed places. For, John tells us, "Therefore rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them. Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! for the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time."

We see Satan's influence everywhere on the earth. We see it particularly in the magazines of the world, where we not only know pornography as commonplace, but, worse almost than that, the innocuous articles in women's magazines that tell of the "thrill" of young mothers going back to school to get their degrees, and mothers leaving families to take positions that are challenging, etc., etc. Every influence is exerted to take mother out of the home, away from children that need and yearn for her love, her presence, and her constant teachings. Alone, almost, stands The Relief Society Magazine, combating the influences of the evil one and fighting the fight down here where the battle still rages for men's souls.

253

APRIL 1964

In 1959 in Great Britain, when we organized the district auxiliary boards to help prepare our people for stakehood, a challenge was issued to each division of the mission board. The first instructions to the Relief Society Board were, "The Relief Society Magazine should be in every member's home to increase the spirituality, to combat evil influences, to improve the attendance at Relief Society, and to help the family to be home-centered in its life." It was suggested that The Relief Society Magazine was the mortar that would hold these objectives together and build a strong building of preparedness for stakehood. It was outlined that The Relief Society Magazine would be the stimulator, the motivator, and the blueprint for perfection and progress in personal lives, in family life, and in organizational accomplishment in the mission.

How well the sisters succeeded in their objective is seen in the fact that, for the first time in British Mission history, in 1960, 107% of the members' families took The Relief Society Magazine, and the mission was on the Honor Roll. In 1961, the British Mission led all missions of the Church, with 147% of the families taking the Magazine. And as far as accomplishing the purpose of preparation for stakehood, where there were no stakes in 1959, there are now six stakes in the original British Mission. Out of this wide circulation came some wonderful stories that show The Relief Society Magazine is great for husbands, that it is an ideal missionary, and that the Magazine reactivates members

and brings within them a desire to serve.

For example: Roy Caddick, now in the stake presidency of the Manchester Stake, is a schoolteacher. He had completely forgotten his assignment to be the teacher-speaker at a faculty meeting on Monday morning. When he awakened to his assignment early on Monday morning, all he had in his pocket was his wife's copy of The Relief Society Magazine. He became absorbed reading the literature lesson on Shakespeare's Hamlet. Standing to give his talk, he repeated what he had read in the Relief Society literature lesson. When he had completed his talk, the headmaster arose and said something like this: "We want to compliment Mr. Caddick on his excellent preparation. I don't know how many books he must have read to give us this comprehensive and fresh talk on Shakespeare's Hamlet, but I do know it has been the finest faculty talk we have had this year. We commend him for his example, and for his study."

As a missionary, The Relief Society Magazine has no peer. One of the ardent solicitors in the British Mission saw a new sister in church. She asked her to subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine. She did so, even though this was her first visit to a strange church. With each succeeding copy she became engrossed in this great women's Magazine that taught every good facet of life. She was inspired by the theology lessons. She was engrossed in the social science lessons. She was interested in the culture of the literature lessons.

254

THE WORTH OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

And she was really excited about the work meeting suggestions. Surely, the Church that published such an uplifting and well-rounded Magazine must be inspired. She began coming to Relief Society, and her discussions with the missionaries were merely perfunctory; she had already been converted by the Magazine.

As a means of binding one to the Church, fellowshipping a new convert, or even bringing one back into activity, The Relief Society Magazine stands alone. For instance: a new member went to Relief Society for the first time and subscribed to the Magazine. The woman giving the lesson evidently was unprepared, and our new member was very disinterested to the point that she thought she would not go again. Shortly, the Magazine began arriving in her home. She read it from cover to cover. When she came to the lesson material that the unprepared sister had poorly given, she read it and thought, why this is beautiful. I guess I didn't understand it. She decided she must be a part of the discussion of the lessons which she was enjoying reading. The Magazine had aroused her interest, rejuvenated her spirit, and rekindled her desire to be a part of the kingdom.

Yes, The Relief Society Magazine is a great power, an influence, and a factor of worth in our fight with Satan. I have been reading it for thirty-five years. When on my first mission to Switzerland, as a young boy, I was given the assignment of working with the Relief Society. In our thirty years of marriage, I have read with Sister Woodbury her lessons, as she has prepared to teach, first the literature lessons, then the theology lessons, and, currently, the social science lessons. I think the Magazine is better today than it has ever been—in content, in uplift, and, surely, in make-up. I think the covers of recent months have been frame-worthy—each of them. The new headings in color are exciting, and the practical articles such as "Stretching the Food Budget" present worthwhile ideas for this day of devalued dollars.

Now, I would like to issue a challenge to all of you sisters who represent the leadership of Magazine sales in your stakes, missions, and districts. The Savior held out perfection to us, which, to me, means 100%. There should not be a single Relief Society in this Church which is not getting 100%. That is assumed! That is perfection! But more than that, the Savior said that those who should ask you to go one mile, "go with him twain." In other words, go the extra mile! If you are asked to go one, go two! I would like to challenge every Relief Society to get 200% as a minimum goal for 1964. If every member is a missionary and every member is to bring in another member, I can't think of a finer way to begin this accomplishment than by giving a subscription to your fine neighbor friend who is a non-Mormon, or getting her to subscribe to this spiritual, uplifting Magazine. Let us all go the extra mile and get that extra mile smile in 1964 with 200%.

255
