[Vol51 | April 1964 | Page 310 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities | Hulda Parker]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker]

Notes FROM THE FIELD

General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker

New Orleans Stake (Louisiana) Relief Society Holds "Blast-Off" Social
For Ward Leaders
September 21, 1963

Seated, center foreground: Beulah B. Larson, former president, New Orleans Stake Relief Society.

Sister Larson reports: "The stake board held this social to establish close working relations between the stake and ward officers and class leaders, and to get our new Relief Society year off to a good start. A humorous play 'Relief Society — Why?' was presented to encourage full participation in the Relief Society program. Other numbers on the program included a reading, special musical numbers, and a rendition by ward Singing Mothers group. Each stake officer and board member sat with and served lunch to her group of ward leaders. After lunch, we held our first leadership meeting of the new year. Another skit — 'The Good Ship Relief Society' — was used to introduce members of the stake board. After opening exercises, we conducted our usual departmental work, which brought to a close a very successful day in Relief Society. We feel that it laid the foundation for greater achievements in our stake."

Cleora K. Williams is the new president of New Orleans Stake Relief Society.

Ogden Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions

Front row, seated, left to right: Ruth G. Williams, Second Counselor; Pearl G. Williams, President; Marguerite R. Burton, First Counselor; Joyce Montgomery, assistant organist; Arvilla P. Arrowsmith, stake organist; Neva P. Simonsen, stake chorister; K. Gunn McKay, narrator of the presentation "God So Loved the World." Other participants: Patti Ann Jensen; Gayle Anderson; Marion Romander; Lucille Richardson; Afton F. McKell; Edith G. Briem.

Sister Williams reports: "We are very proud of the accomplishments of our Singing Mothers this year. They have furnished the music for stake conference, together with Relief Society conference. Each month in our Relief Society leadership meeting a chorus from one of the wards has furnished special musical numbers. In April the Singing Mothers presented a beautifully arranged concert in the Ogden Tabernacle, before a large audience. We were very happy for the presence of Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society. At our annual spring party held in May for all the women in the stake, we presented 'God So Loved the World.' The Singing Mothers furnished the music for that beautiful presentation. It was so favorably received that seven of our bishops asked that the presentation be given in their sacrament meetings. Our stake presidency was host to all the stake presidencies in the Ogden region at a lovely banquet. For this occasion the Singing Mothers were asked to give the presentation of 'God So Loved the World.' It was beautifully rendered and very inspirational. Everyone enjoyed the evening and expressed a greater desire to keep the commandments of our Father in heaven more fully and to serve him better."

310

RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES

All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

311

APRIL 1964

Washington Stake (Washington, D.C.) Chevy Chase Ward Bazaar
November 8-9, 1963

Virginia Cameron is seen admiring a hand-knit hat and sweater, made and modeled by Marjorie Van Camp (seated); Frances G. Bennett, second from the left, Blese B. Lundberg, and Mirandy Allison (right) are displaying some of the hundreds of handmade articles and objects of art displayed at the bazaar.

Marcia C. Steele, President, Washington Stake Relief Society, reports the theme was international and the general public was invited. A special feature of the bazaar was the display of many of the paintings included in the Seventieth Annual Exhibition of the Society of Washington Artists, from the National Collection of Fine Arts, Smithsonian Institution.

Original creative stitchery and crewel embroidered wall hangings, Swedish embroidered tote bags, Sauna shirts, floral boutique pieces, ceramic pins, papier maché figures, as well as hand-knit sweaters, hats, slippers, and baby things, in addition to candle and wreath arrangements, and a large assortment of Christmas gifts kept the sisters busy for months preparing for the bazaar.

Alice Marriott's mustard pickles and jams were in great demand at the gourmet booths, which offered a wide variety of homemade foods. Breads of the world, cakes, penny candy, country sausage, ham sandwiches, and homemade root beer were among the fast selling foods which were beautifully displayed.

Monument Park West Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Holds "Fair Exchange"
September 20, 1963

Left to right: Wanda N. Ericson, Work Director Counselor; Marcella B. Bramwell, Secretary-Treasurer; Clarice Cooper, President; Ruth H. Willes, Education Counselor.

Sister Cooper reports: "A very successful and beautiful 'Fair Exchange' was held September 20, 1963. It was extremely gratifying to have approximately 500 people call during the hours from 10 A.M. until 12 noon. Each of the seven wards of the stake was responsible for one booth, and in addition brought three articles for the 'Bazaar Booth.' A number of other talented people were generous in demonstrating special skills. Sister Bramwell had prepared a very interesting and informative chart on attendance at the various meetings. Nyena S. Nelson, theology class leader, Fae S. Carlson, literature class leader, Ruby E. Henderson, social science class leader, and Pat S. Lowder, Visiting Teacher representative, had eye-catching booths demonstrating their work.

"The hall was festive, decorated in rich fall colors. Streamers, fanning out from a balloon-decorated high point on the back wall, suggested a huge tent. The names of the booths were printed in black on green, scalloped, corrugated paper which extended from pole to pole so as to make a continuous border. Very interesting names were used, such as: Sweet Shoppe, Norwegian Pancakes, Bread Basket, Cookie Carousel, Closet Door, Feather Fantasy, Knitting Needle, Fall's Creations, Christmas Ideas, Bazaar Items, Glamor Cobbler, and Nature's Magic and Originals. Everything shown or demonstrated could be made by hand. Samples and recipes were given wherever food was demonstrated.

"The beautiful serving table featured a lovely centerpiece of ribbon chrysanthemums made by Ruby Swallow. Punch and cookies made by the board members were served by Margaret J. Harmon, stake music director, and Golda T. Evans, visiting teacher message leader. Bernice P. Engeman, stake organist, played beautiful and appropriate music during the entire 'Fair Exchange.' Those attending 'signed in,' and the ward with the largest number received a prize. Those who came received some excellent ideas for bazaars and work meetings, along with a renewed desire to attend Relief Society and receive its many benefits."

312

[PHOTOGRAPH - Top image shows five women, with one seated woman wearing what appears to be a fur hat or stole, and four women standing behind her. One woman is holding what appears to be a decorative bowl or vessel.]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Bottom image shows four women standing together, with "Christmas Ideas" visible as text above them. There appear to be floral arrangements visible in the foreground.]

APRIL 1964

West German Mission Relief Society Officers Display Baby Quilts Made to
Introduce Quilting to German Sisters

Left to right: Elfriede Zühlsdorf, President, Frankfurt Branch Relief
Society; Elisabeth Uhlig, Counselor, Frankfurt Branch Relief Society; Louise
C. Heyman, district leader, Frankfurt District; Mella Uchtdorf, Secretary-
Treasurer, Frankfurt Branch Relief Society.

Sister Heyman reports: "Sister McIntire, wife of President Wayne F.
McIntire of the West German Mission, for a long time has had the desire
to introduce quilting to the German sisters. So, at our Mission Relief Society
Conference in May 1963, she made her desire known. A baby quilt, made of
different kinds of quilt blocks, was prepared, and instructions and measure-
ments were given to the sisters. A talk on the history of quilting and what
our pioneer women have done along that line, was presented, and the desire
of the General Board of Relief Society to have this art preserved among the
sisters was mentioned. It was also pointed out that much good has been
accomplished by the distribution of quilts in times of need.

"The idea was received very favorably by the sisters. The Frankfurt
sisters began their quilt-making projects with great enthusiasm, and they have
now finished their first baby quilt and have already started another one.
The quilts are made from materials purchased locally, including the batting."

Riverdale Stake (Utah), Riverdale Ward Wins Quilt for Highest Attendance at
Relief Society Visiting Teacher Convention
September 28, 1963

Front row, left to right: Jean Porter, organist; Doris Woodbury, Counse-
lor; Perneica Fiet, Counselor; Ruth Ritter, President; stake officers: Myrl S.
Stewart, President; Della Greenwell, First Counselor; Nina Atwood, Secretary-
Treasurer; board members: Margie Peterson, Heem Henderson, Beth Tesch.

Second row, left to right: Ruth Burton; Elva Hawkley; Neta Farr;
Blanche Gibby; Donna Child; Ida Ritter; Mary Child; Pearl Child; Leah
Cook; Mabel Ellis; Tillie Adams.

Back row, left to right: Carol Nessen; Virginia Jackson; Jackie Keller-
strass; Bessie Boswell; Gladys Sorenson; Coralee Green; Jean Jensen; Elaine
Ewert; Berdean Crabtree; Myrtle Carlsen, Hazel Manning; Asenath Davis.

Sister Stewart reports: "This was such a unique and inspiring convention.
Humble, sincere talks were given to inspire and encourage the visiting teachers.
A special poem 'The Sacred Calling of the Visiting Teacher,' written by Lila
Lutz, was read by her, and a copy, typed on blue paper and decorated with
the Relief Society seal and gold ribbon, was presented to each visiting teacher
present. The singing of the stake Singing Mothers chorus was gorgeous and
beautiful. The film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown. It was very spiritual,
and every teacher was thrilled, enthused, and inspired to be a better visiting
teacher.

"The Riverdale Stake Relief Society presidency and board members made
the exquisitely beautiful quilt of green and white border print, quilted in a very
pretty pattern. The Riverdale Ward had eighty-two per cent of their visiting
teachers in attendance at the convention, which was an exceptionally splendid
record. Our aim this year is to double our attendance at the monthly visiting
teacher meetings, which, in turn, will improve greatly the quality of our
teaching. We feel that every teacher went away from the convention with the
resolve to be a better teacher in every way. Dainty refreshments were served."

314

NOTES FROM THE FIELD

[PHOTOGRAPH - Top image shows four women, one standing at left presenting to a chart or board, three others seated/standing at right]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Bottom image shows a large group of women seated in what appears to be an auditorium or meeting hall, with a large landscape painting visible on the wall behind them]

315

APRIL 1964

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Northern Far East Mission Relief Society Sisters at Youth Conference
Tokyo, Japan, August 1963

First three women, starting at the wall, and curving to the front, left to right: Toshi Suzuki, East Central District Relief Society President; Shizuko Asakawa, First Counselor, East Central District; Chieko Abe, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society Counselor.

Far right, at the back, Peggy H. Andersen, President, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society.

Large Kanji character sign says: Fujo Kyokai — "Relief Society."
Displays represent the different departments.

Sister Andersen reports: "For the first time in the history of the Northern Far East Mission, an all-youth conference was held for four days in August 1963. One of the highlights of the conference was the last day — Sunday, at which time the various departments of the Church demonstrated a typical meeting. The Sunday School, Genealogy Department, Priesthood, and Relief Society participated.

"It was a thrilling sight to watch these lovely Japanese women meet for the first time in a building of their own. All meetings were held in the first chapel ever constructed in Japan. The building was not quite completed, but the saints were overwhelmed with the spirit manifested in these meetings. The artificial flowers in the picture were made out of paper napkins in order to cover up the unfinished pulpit. At the Relief Society section the various departments of theology, work meeting, literature, and social science were explained, and the visiting teacher message department was particularly stressed. Also, the lessons for 1963-64 were summarized.

"It is significant to note that a large percentage of our women in Japan are among the youth, so it was only natural that Relief Society should be included in a Youth Conference. Since many of the girls and women are unmarried, I spoke to them concerning the power and dignity of womanhood, and of preparing themselves for a worthy Priesthood bearer. About 200 were in attendance at the special Relief Society gathering, but the picture represents various officers from several branches. Another thrilling sight was to see the members from branches all over Japan as they said goodbye to one another. For the first time in the mission many of them were privileged to meet one another. Tears were shed in almost every case, as they expressed the wonderful spirit of the Lord which was felt in the meeting."

316
