[Vol51 | April 1964 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The Warblers | Author: Dorothy J. Roberts,]
The  Warblers 
Dorothy  J.   Roberts 
They  brought  a  song,  a  wisp  of  thread, 
They  scanned  the  pine  outside  my  sill 
For  nesting  a  perennial  mate. 
And  something  moved  my  wintering  will. 
Song  grew  until  a  symphony 
Rose  from  the  neighborhood  of  trees. 
And  something,  listening,  aroused 
My  waning  wonder,  hearing  these 
Who  weave  their  hopes  above  the  street. 
Paired  for  flight  into  songful  teams. 
Who  build  the  bits  I  throw  away 
Into  a  dwelling  for  their  dreams. 
274

Cancer's  Two  Deadly  Gaps 
American  Cancer  Society 
In  cancer,  in  1964,  there  are  two  deep,  tragic  gaps:  the  research  gap 
and  the  education  gap.  Cancer  research  has  accompHshed  fifty  per 
cent  of  its  task.  Today,  it  is  possible  cure  to  one  half  of  all  cancers. 
The  remaining  fifty  per  cent  waits  on  new  discoveries  —  bridging 
the  research  gap.  The  other  gap  —  the  education  gap  —  could  be 
bridged  immediately.  Lack  of  education  cancels  some  of  the  benefits 
of  research  —  by  keeping  about  one  out  of  every  six  cancer  patients 
from  the  prompt  diagnosis  and  the  proper  treatment  that  could 
save  his  life.  In  one  year  —  this  year  — in  this  country,  the  educa- 
tion gap  will  cost  about  90,000  hves  —  people  who  could  be  saved 
from  cancer  if  they  were  properly  educated  and  motivated  to  help 
themselves. 
Education  could  save:  people  who  have  not  learned  the  seven 
danger  signals  that  may  mean  cancer  —  or  who  fail  to  act  on  these 
signals;  people  who  do  not  know  that  cancer  can  be  cured  if  found 
early,  hence  avoid  periodic  health  examinations;  people  who  do  not 
know  what  modem  surgery,  radiation,  and  drugs  can  do  against 
cancer,  hence  avoid  proper  treatment  or  delay  it  too  long  for  safety. 
The  seven  danger  signals  are:  unusual  bleeding  or  discharge;  a 
lump  or  thickening  in  the  breast  or  elsewhere;  a  sore  that  does  not 
heal;  change  in  bowel  or  bladder  habits;  hoarseness  or  cough;  indi- 
gestion or  difficulty  in  swallowing;  change  in  wart  or  mole. 
To  cure  more,  give  more  to  the  American  Cancer  Society!