[Vol51 | April 1964 | Page 276 | Fiction | Please, Not This One Merle | E. Feriante]

PLEASE NOT THIS ONE**

*Merle E. Feriante*

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing showing a doctor and nurse in a hospital setting, with the nurse holding a baby]

CLARA floated gently, unhurried, through the anesthetic until the gleam of the delivery room ceiling brought her back to reality.

"That didn't take long," she thought with drowsy relief.

"You have a little girl." The doctor's pleasant voice caught her up with a jerk.

"Is she all right?" She gave weak voice to the question first on a mother's tongue.

"Yes," the doctor's voice reassured her. She gave in to the lassitude that plagued her, floating gently to the haven of no pain. "But," he continued, pulling her rudely back, "she has something wrong with her stomach. A hernia, or something of that order."

She forced herself to show interest.

"Oh? Hernia operations were quite common. She began to drift away again, but the doctor wouldn't let her.

"Let's go to the nursery so you can see her." Clara felt the table move under her and watched through pleasantly clouded vision as the ceiling changed from white to cool green.

The table stopped and a gentle hand on her cheek turned her face toward the nursery window. She forced herself to concentrate. The nurse, holding the baby, watched the mother's expression as she looked into the round face, eyes pinched tight, the little nose pressed flat into a red, soft-fleshed face, dark hair curled tightly to her head.

"She weighs nine pounds and thirteen ounces," the doctor said, and the mother smiled weakly, breathed....

"She's beautiful!" The nurse with a deft hand, turned back the blanket to reveal the wrinkled, red, freshly washed little body. There!!! She saw but couldn't comprehend. She closed her eyes to shut out the sight and longed with all her heart to return to the safety of oblivion ... anywhere just to get away from now.

She felt a tear slide down her

276

PLEASE, NOT THIS ONE

cheek and raised a hand to conceal her face.

"What happened?" she whispered, sick with grief. She felt her gentle pressure of a hand on her shoulder, and looking up met the doctor's unflinching gaze.

THERE was such concern there that she felt sorry for him and guilty also that she was causing him such anxiety.

"We don't know how or why these things happen," he said gently, "perhaps she'll be all right. We'll just have to wait and see." But she had again covered her face, seeking privacy.

"You had better put her to bed," he directed softly.

The table moved and she let herself sink back into blessed unawareness. She was dimly aware of gentle hands moving her, pillows flattened, and the warmth of heated blankets tucked around her. Someone was crying, somewhere. Such heartbroken sobs. She wished they would stop. She didn't like to hear anyone cry.

Something terrible must have happened, she thought. She opened her eyelids with great effort and discovered with surprise that it was she crying. She stopped abruptly, ashamed of her lack of control. Why was she crying? For herself? The baby? Disappointment? The uncertainty of the situation? She didn't know. She turned toward the sanctuary of the wall and invited the soothing balm of semi-consciousness again, but it was gone. It wouldn't return. So, there was to be no going back. What was ahead? It had finally happened to her. She, too, had given birth to an imperfect child. That

much was a fact, but would it live? If it did, then what? Had they called her husband? Had they told him? What would he think? There were too many questions. She closed her eyes and hid her face in the pillow.

Immediately she saw the baby. She opened her eyes frantically. She would not feel the same way about this baby as she had the others. She would not love it or get attached to it, that was her only hope. Then, if the baby should die, the loss wouldn't be so painful. She nodded her head firmly. Yes! That was the only way.

SHE raised herself heavily and reached for the glass and tube beside the bed. The water tasted so good. Would she ever get enough? She fell back and again turned her face to the wall. Weariness, physical and emotional, overcame her and she drifted gently away.

A hand on her shoulder, a gentle kiss on her cheek, pulled her out of the dark comfortable nothing. She came reluctantly. Looking up into her husband's brown eyes searchingly, she knew immediately that they hadn't told him.

"Another girl, huh?" Hal grinned. "When are you going to add a little variety to this family of ours?" She tried to smile but her face crumpled as she began to weep. Her arms reaching desperately pulled him close. She couldn't bear to have even him see the hurt in her face. He drew back in alarm.

"Hey, honey, what's the matter?" He slipped an arm under

277

APRIL 1964

her shoulders and pulled her close.

"There's something wrong with our baby," Clara sobbed brokenly, then quickly closed her eyes to shut out the sight of his face gone suddenly white; the sick look of fear that tightened the corners of his mouth. He held her close, wordlessly, for a moment.

"Well, honey," Hal pushed the damp curls back from her face with gentle fingers, "we wondered if sooner or later something would be wrong with one of them, didn't we?"

She nodded jerkily, swallowing hard. They had discussed it.

"But not this one," she pleaded desperately, "please, not this one." They clung together silently until the misery that had filled the room gently subsided.

"Have you seen the pediatrician yet?"

"No."

"Let's wait and see what he says." He bent to kiss her cheek. "Now, don't feel so badly . . . it's nothing we could have helped." He answered her unspoken question. "Things will work out, you'll see." He laid her against the pillows and straightened up, holding her hand so tightly the wide gold wedding band cut into her fingers. "I'll be right back. I'm going down to see her." He was back in five minutes.

SHE'S cute, isn't she?" Clara smiled through her tears. At least some things weren't so different. "She'll be all right," Hal predicted and she tried to absorb some of his confidence. "She's big and strong, and even if it

means an operation she'll be able to stand it." She cringed, miserable at the thought of an operation on such a small body. After a prolonged silence her husband began to speak hesitantly. Struggling to eradicate the thought of an operation, she followed his words carefully, praying for distraction.

"I met Grant Fuller down the hall," he spoke slowly, thoughtfully. "Irene's here. They had their baby today, too." He hesitated, undecided, then continued, "It died a half hour ago."

She lay there stunned. Becoming aware that her teeth were so tightly clenched they ached, she relaxed with effort.

"She was born under the covenant, so they, at least, know they'll have her in the hereafter," he concluded.

Suddenly her arms felt so empty they ached. The hereafter's too far away, she thought in a panic. My baby's just down the hall and I want her now. But how long would she be there? At least Grant and Irene knew. Ahead of her was what? A crippled child? Would she require so much attention that the rest of the family would suffer neglect? She suddenly realized what a pathetically weak person she was. What was ahead for them? She couldn't face any of it.

"At least we can hope," Hal answered her unspoken question. But what was hope? It could be a deceiving liar, luring her toward happiness, then abruptly plunge her to the very depths of despair. She shook her head in silent rebellion. NO! She'd not be lured into that trap. "You know these things happen to

278

teach us something," he insisted, watching her face intently.

"Yes," she agreed, "I know that," her forehead wrinkled, "but what? What?"

He shrugged, absently rubbing the back of her hand with his thumb.

HAL looked at the telephone beside her bed. "You should call your mother."

"I know I should," she replied wearily, "but she'll ask 'Is everything all right?' and then what do I say? We don't even know if the baby will live or not. Besides mother has enough to worry about with Janet." He nodded reluctantly.

Janet, her little niece, was suffering from an incurable disease. The little girl's grandmother, with gentle hands, performed for Janet many tasks and helped Janet's mother so the little girl had not gone into a hospital.

Clara, on the other hand, had always regarded Janet as someone who deserved to be loved but harbored a deep feeling of guilt because in spite of this conviction, the wandering, innocent, baby eyes, aimlessly seeking hands, and the unintelligible utterings of a child of ten years had frightened her. She had been relieved to move to another city.

Now what? Would her baby be another Janet to the family? More of the same arguments . . . the whole confusing conflict all over again?

"No," Clara said decisively, "I can't call her yet . . . maybe tomorrow," she half promised before he left.

That night, the pediatrician, whom she had known for twelve years, was a stranger at the foot of her bed. The concern in his face told her before he did the results of his examination in the nursery.

CLARA again felt guilty that she had brought a less than perfect babe into the world and was causing still another person such obvious concern. She smiled encouragement.

"I've seen the baby," his eyes were steady. She waited. "The big question is whether her body is capable of functioning and only time will answer that." The smile left her face. She had counted on him to reassure her. "Are you going to nurse her?" His question plopped in the awkward silence. She avoided his eyes.

"I don't know," she murmured miserably. "Why don't I know?" she asked herself desperately. She had nursed the others. There had been no question then. "But this one is different," she excused herself. "If I nurse her and she dies, then what?" The physical pain would be just another reminder of her loss. I couldn't stand it, she thought wildly. What if they decided the baby could not leave the hospital when she did, then what? So many problems, was there no end? She pressed her hands to her throbbing temples. Was there no way out of this trap? "I don't know!" she repeated defiantly into the strained silence.

"You have plenty of time to decide," the pediatrician assured her mildly.

"I've arranged with the nursery to show you your baby when-

279

APRIL 1964

ever you want to see her," he said kindly.

She nodded and murmured a thank you, but she knew in her heart that she wouldn't go. Perhaps, given time, she would be able to forget what she looked like. No . . . she would not go see her. The less she had to do with the baby the better for her. She wouldn't get attached to her.

Night passed in drugged, fitful slumber, awakening to awareness and willing herself back into oblivion . . . blessed oblivion . . . peaceful . . . unthinking . . . uncomplicated oblivion. But with the coming of day her period of respite ended.

"Do you want the news of your baby's birth published in the newspapers?" an impersonal nurse inquired, her pencil poised.

Clara looked up in surprise. They had never asked her that before. Were they so sure it wouldn't live? What would she tell the children? . . . They had waited so long with the little bed so carefully made up. How did you tell them there was no baby to put in it . . . ?

"You don't have to if you don't want to," the nurse avoided her eyes as she prodded her toward a decision.

She thinks I'm ashamed of my baby, the mother suddenly realized with a deep sense of shame. But was being a coward a better virtue? How selfish she had been. She should have been thinking of her husband and children and trying to make the situation more bearable for them, but she had made herself the biggest problem.

o . . . Her first concern should have been for the tiny baby down in the nursery whom she had been so deliberately ignoring. She felt a sudden sense of release. It had never occurred to her not to acknowledge the birth of the baby.

"Of course I want it published," she replied firmly, and the poised pencil made its mark and left. She thought of the tiny girl down the hall. If she, her own mother, wouldn't claim and love her, who would? She had the right, perfect or not, to be loved and cared for by her mother whether she lived one day, one week, or whatever time she had.

Clara looked up as the doctor entered the room followed by a nurse carrying her baby. She had seen the baby only the once since it was born and now, as she looked into her small face and laid a gentle finger against the softest cheek she had ever touched, her heart ached with love and compassion.

"May I hold her?"

The nurse, after a nod from the doctor, handed her the baby. Her cheeks flushed with shame as she realized that they, too, had misunderstood her cowardice. She looked into the small closed-up face, and wondered how long . . . today . . . tomorrow . . . one week . . . it didn't matter . . . this was her baby. If she just lives two weeks, then I'll be sure, she made herself the vain promise.

"She seems to be in good order internally," the doctor volunteered encouragingly.

280

PLEASE, NOT THIS ONE

The mother's eyes left the baby face and looked up into his searchingly. Here was more than she had dared hope for. She clutched the pink bundle against her, pressing her cheek to the face of the sleeping infant. Tears slid down her cheeks, and in spite of herself, she sobbed. She felt the baby taken from her and firm hands put her to bed. A capsule was pressed into her hand. She cried steadily until the drugged pillow that softens all emotions put her to sleep.

That evening Clara looked down at the dark head pillowed on her arm. The satin cheeks were dimpling rhythmically as the baby nursed. Her small fingers closed around Clara's thumb. With a gentle hand she stirred the tight, dark curls. Placing her daughter against her shoulder, she patted the tiny back. Through the blanket she could feel the row of safety pins holding a binder securely around the small body. She smiled as she felt the soft brush of warm breath . . . that precious breath

of life . . . and her heart filled with gratitude for having her to hold one more day.

Suddenly she saw beyond the physical imperfection of her baby and knew what it was that must be learned. She held the baby from her and looked at her intently.

Her thoughts turned to her other children. She didn't love any one of them, more or less, according to his physical condition. The spirit within shaped them and made them who and what they were.

How could she have been so blind? First about little Janet and then her own baby. Now she could understand her mother's stubborn devotion to Janet's care. She, with greater wisdom, had seen beyond that tortured little body and loved the precious, innocent soul that was held captive within.

Gathering her daughter into her arms, carefully so as not to awaken her, Clara held her close to her heart and reached for the telephone.

___________
