[Vol51 | April 1964 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: 241 Quest — Frontispiece Lucille Rampton Perry Neighbor Child | Author: Margery S. Stewart, 249: Enchanted Valley, by Sylvia Probst Young,]
'/rm/ 
May  I  congratulate  you  on  our 
wonderful  Relief  Society  Magazine.  I 
can  hardly  wait  each  month  to  get 
my  copy  —  each  one  with  such  a 
beautiful  cover.  The  lovely  inspiring 
talks,  stories,  and  poems,  not  to  men- 
tion the  wonderful  lessons,  are  ap- 
preciated by  me. 
Mrs.  Tena  V.  Dorp  Van  der  Ende 
Redondo  Beach,  California 
I  want  to  thank  you  for  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine  and  its  guidance 
for  the  Relief  Society  program.  I  am 
sure  our  Father  is  pleased  with  the 
wonderful  inspirational  lessons  and 
the  uplift  the  whole  program  gives  to 
the  sisters.  I  am  a  young  mother  of 
four  and  I  certainly  look  forward  to 
Relief  Society  meeting.  It  really  in- 
spires me  in  my  dealings  with  my 
husband  and  family. 
Mrs.  Kaye  Sims 
Seattle,  Washington 
I  just  had  to  drop  you  a  note  and 
tell  you  how  much  I  enjoy  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine.  It  is  a  real  inspira- 
tion. I  was  especially  thrilled  with  the 
conclusion  of  Rosa  Lee  Lloyd's  serial 
"Kiss  of  the  Wind"  (February  1964). 
It  was  such  a  sweet,  inspiring  story.  I 
feel  as  if  I  had  been  to  Hawaii.  I  look 
forward  to  more  of  Mrs.  Lloyd's 
stories.  I  loved  her  serial  about  Alas- 
ka, too. 
Claire  Farrer 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
I  just  had  to  sit  down  and  tell  you 
how  much  I  enjoyed  reading  "Kiss 
of  the  Wind,"  by  Rosa  Lee  Lloyd.  It 
was  a  wonderful  story.  The  Magazine 
is  a  helpmeet  in  my  life. 
Mrs.  Carol  Kemple 
North  Las  Vegas,  Nevada 
I  simply  must  write  and  tell  you 
how  outstanding  our  little  Magazine 
is.  I  love  the  color  added  to  each  page 
—  it  makes  the  Magazine  even  more 
beautiful.  Each  cover  is  a  collector's 
item  in  itself.  So  thanks  so  much  for 
a  clean,  wholesome,  edifying  Maga- 
zine —  a  true  gem  in  our  times. 
Nora  O.  Caldwell 
Corvallis,  Montana 
What  a  wonderful  story  just  con- 
cluded in  the  February  issue  of  the 
Magazine,  such  a  splendid  picture  of 
Hawaiian  life  ("Kiss  of  the  Wind," 
by  Rosa  Lee  Lloyd).  I  love  the  lesson 
material  very  much,  and  the  recipes 
are  delightful. 
Helen  H.  Stickler 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Of  all  the  contents  of  the  February 
Magazine,  I  enjoyed  the  editorial  most 
("The  Words  That  Women  Write," 
by  Vesta  P.  Crawford).  It  touched  me 
where  I  live.  The  new  serial  ("Your 
Heart  to  Understanding,"  by  Hazel 
M.  Thomson)  got  off  to  a  good  start. 
The  characterization  of  Belle  is  good, 
and  the  action  moves  in  a  straight 
line.  The  second  prize  story  ("Mama 
Lives  in  the  Kitchen,"  by  Lael  J. 
Littke) ,  I  thought  good,  except  for  the 
fact  that  a  woman  with  three  children, 
ages  three,  ten,  and  sixteen,  should 
not  have  been  so  overwhelmed  with 
kitchen  work,  unless  she  really  wanted 
to  do  it,  which,  I  suppose,  is  the  point 
of  the  story.  The  frontispiece  poem 
("Sonnet  to  the  Sea,"  by  Alice  Morrey 
Bailey)  I  love,  and  I  am  thankful  I 
have  had  the  delight  of  being  on  that 
very  spot  in  Monterey. 
Dorothy  Clapp  Robinson 
Boise,  Idaho 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  ©  1964  by 
the  Relief  Society  Generol  Board  Association.  Editorial  and  Business  Office:  76  North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84111;  Phone  EMpire 
4-2511;  Subscriptions  2642;  Editorial  Dept.  2654.  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year;  20c  o  copy,  payable  in  ad- 
vance. The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back  numbers  con  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies 
will  be  missed.  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new  address.  Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914, 
at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the  Act,  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided 
for  in  section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postage  is 
enclosed.     Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only.     The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts.

The    r^Oli^ff    S^Ci^ty  Magazine 
APRIL    1964      VOLUME   51      NUMBER   4 
Editor     Marianne  C.  Sharp 
Associate  Editor     Vesta  P.  Crawford 
General  Manager     Belle  S.  Spafford 
Special  Features 
244  Exalting  the  Poor     John  H.  Vandenberg 
250  Marjorie  C.  Pingree  Appointed  to  the  General  Board     Elizabeth  B.  Winters 
251  Darlene  C.  Dedekind  Appointed  to  the  General  Board     Irene  W.  Buehner 
252  Cleone  R.  Eccles  Appointed  to  the  General  Board     Jeanette  M.  Morrell 
253  The  Worth  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine     T.  Bowring  Woodbury