[Vol51 | April 1964 | Page 291 | Home | Stretching the Food Budget Part VI — Make the Most of Economical Cuts of Meat Sadie | O. Morris]
[Stretching the Food Budget Part VI — Make the Most of Economical Cuts of Meat Sadie O. Morris]

STRETCHING
the Food Budget

Part VI—Make the Most of Economical Cuts of Meat

Sadie O. Morris

MEAT not only is one of the most universally liked foods, but is an excellent source of certain important nutrients. It is valued for the good quality proteins, minerals, and water-soluble vitamins it contributes to the diet. Taste appeal places meat high on the market list; generally it is the first item chosen when planning a menu.

Meat is usually judged on the basis of tenderness, juiciness, and flavor. Tenderness is an important factor contributing to the palatability of meat. Certain cuts of meat derived from any animal are relatively less tender than others. The most tender cuts always lie along the backbone and ribs, the less tender parts coming, as a rule, from the shank, shoulder, neck, and under parts of the body. The less tender cuts of meat include sections of muscles that are exercised as the animal walks and grazes. These muscles contain a large proportion of well-developed connective tissue which, unless modified by cookery processes, contributes to toughness.

The less tender cuts of meat require the use of moist heat. Moist heat softens the connective tissues making it more tender. These cuts of meat may also be made more tender by pounding, grinding, or cubing. Tenderness of meat is also affected by the temperature at which it is cooked, tenderness increasing with lower cooking temperatures. The lower cooking temperatures retain the juice and flavor of meat and reduce shrinkage.

Use of less tender cuts of meat lends interest to the meal because of the great variety of ways these cuts may be prepared.

Variety meats, which are the organs, such as liver and heart, are especially high in nutritive value. In addition, they are comparatively low in cost, making them valuable additions to low-cost menus.

291

APRIL 1964

2 tbsp. flour
2 c. liquid in which heart was cooked
4 tbsp. vinegar
2 tbsp. brown sugar
1 bay leaf
1/8 tsp. thyme
2 whole cloves
1/2 tsp. salt
1/8 tsp. pepper

Wash and trim the heart. If it has been cut, sew into original shape. Cook the noodles in boiling salted water. Drain and combine with one-half of the fat. Fill heart with cooked noodles and save the rest to be heated and served with the heart. Brown the heart on all sides in the remaining fat. Add

the water and season with salt and pepper. Add more water during cooking, if necessary. Cover tightly and cook until tender. The average heart (31/4 lbs.) will require about four hours for cooking. Remove the heart from the liquid and make the Sweet-Sour Sauce.

Melt the fat, add flour, and stir until smooth. Gradually add the liquid, stirring constantly. Cook until thick. Add the vinegar, sugar, and seasonings. Return the stuffed heart to the sauce and simmer for 15 minutes. Serve the heart on a platter with remaining noodles. Remove the bay leaf and cloves from the sauce and serve in a gravy boat.
Yield: a 31/4 lb. heart serves 12.
