[Vol51 | April 1964 | Page 244 | Special Feature | Exalting the Poor John | H. Vandenberg]
[Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1963]

Exalting
the Poor

Presiding Bishop John H. Vandenberg

[Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference,
October 3, 1963]

I feel very humble and grateful, my dear sisters, to participate with you in this conference of Relief Society leaders. It has been suggested that I say something concerning the Relief Society's responsibility toward the welfare program in the wards and stakes of the Church.

One of the distinguishing features of the Church is organization of which the Relief Society is one of the strong facets. The Prophet Joseph Smith said, "I will organize the sisters under the priesthood after a pattern of the priesthood," and then later he said, "This church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized."

One never thinks of welfare work in the Church without thinking of the Relief Society. Elder Albert E. Bowen once said, "A church is an organization for the orderly carrying out of practices enjoined. Organization means order. Lack of it means frustration and chaos. It is important to note that for every command God has given he has provided means for carrying it out."

The Savior was deeply concerned about those in need and gave particular attention to the requirement of taking care of the poor, to those who would serve him. "If thou wilt be perfect," he said to the rich young man, "go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor."

His apostles continued his doctrine. "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world."

In this latter day, a special injunction has come to the bishop in "Searching after the poor to administer to their wants." Further, "and it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it needs be in mine own way."

The welfare plan is the Lord's own way and encompasses all the instructions that have just been referred to.

President Heber J. Grant declared, "This is one of the greatest and most important things the Church has ever undertaken to put over, and it will be put over because we have the ability and the power to do it."

I like to think that when President Grant spoke of the "ability" he was thinking of the devoted women in the Relief Society with their characteristics of tenderness, mercy, warmth, love, understanding, and ability to "provoke the brethren to good works." When he spoke of the "power" he was thinking of the Priesthood, its organization, and

244

EXALTING THE POOR

the Priesthood bearers' devotion to the Church. The combination of the two operating together cannot fail.

THE objectives of the welfare plan are continuous and varied. They may, however, be generally thought of as belonging to two categories — immediate and ultimate.

The immediate objective is to render necessary assistance, to see that "all should be cared for, no one should suffer, no one should be hungry, no one unclothed, no one without shelter." Where it is reported that a family is in need, the bishop investigates that need by counseling with the family. Upon his recommendation, he directs the Relief Society president to visit the home to ascertain what may be necessary for the proper consideration of the case.

If the family is found to be destitute of food or clothing or other needful items, the Relief Society president at once reports to the bishop with her recommendation — and an order to the storehouse is then issued by the bishop to supply the immediate needs. They do not wait for an extended analysis. Then follows the real work of analyzing and rehabilitating the family on a self-sustaining program. It is here that the Relief Society is responsible smoothly and efficiently to assist the bishop.

Today, the standard of living is generally considered to be greatly improved over the conditions of the nineteen thirties; but there are many who are in need, and the welfare plan is operating more effectively than

ever in helping to care for physical needs. Realistically, we are meeting this challenge, and the Relief Society is efficiently carrying out the assignments given to it by the Priesthood, both in the rendering of assistance and in the production of commodities.

The ultimate objective is to "help people to help themselves." True charity is more than just giving, it is to help one to lift himself so that he can independently maintain himself. It has been said:

"The real long term objective of the Welfare Plan is the building of character in the members of the Church, givers and receivers, rescuing all that is finest down deep in the inside of them and bringing to flower and fruitaage the latent richness of the spirit which after all is the mission and purpose and reason for being of this Church."

James Allen once said:

Man is a growth by law, and not a creation by artifice, and cause and effect are as absolute and undeviating in the hidden realm of thought as in the world of visible and material things. A noble and Godlike character is not a thing of favour or chance, but is the natural result of continued effort in right thinking, the effect of long cherished association with Godlike thoughts.

It would appear, then, that there is a need to prepare the minds of the people with the great virtues of the plan. This being the case where do we start?

THE apostle Paul suggests that the home is where true charity begins. He said: "But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel."

245

APRIL 1964

The home is where the Prophet Joseph Smith placed the emphasis when he said to the Relief Society:

To illustrate the object of the Society, that the Society of Sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking after the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants, to assist, by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. . . .¹⁰

The home is the fortress of the Church. The home is the place to build the character of the people. The home is where the morals may be corrected to strengthen the virtues of the community. Our lives and conduct must be such as to invite the spirit of the Lord to dwell in our homes.

When we think of the Relief Society, we think of the mothers in the Church. The mothers are the center of the lives of all Church members — children and husbands, alike. The Relief Society, because of its direct line through the mothers into the homes of the Church, is a potent agency through which we can hope to achieve the ultimate welfare goal of the Church.

George Hubert said, "A good mother equals a hundred schoolmasters. George Washington, the eldest of five children, was only eleven years of age when his father died. His mother was a woman of extraordinary ability who handled her responsibilities with success."

No assignment in the Relief Society should ever be considered as an excuse to neglect the home. You, as leaders in the Relief Society, must set the example in

the home and promote peace and love therein. Again, let me remind you that the home is the fortress of the Church. Keep it strong by properly teaching the mothers in the arts of homemaking.

It has also been said, and I quote:

The greatest literary artist in American History, Nathaniel Hawthorne, not only owed his success to the daily inspiration of his good wife, but also his only opportunity to compose first his mind and then his masterpiece. If it had not been for Sophia, perhaps we should not now remember Hawthorne.

He lost his job in the custom house. A broken-hearted man, he went home to tell his wife that he was a failure. To his amazement she beamed with joy. "Now you can write your book." He said, "Yes, and what shall we live on while I am writing it?" She opened the drawer and took out an unsuspected hoard of cash. "Where on earth did you get it?" She said, "I have always known you were a man of genius. I knew someday you would write an immortal masterpiece. Out of the money you gave me I have saved a little — here is enough to last us for a whole year." Hawthorne sat down and wrote one of his finest books, The Scarlet Letter.

UNLESS we pursue organization and correction through the homes, the homes will perpetuate the need of welfare. Children who are reared in the environment of a home sustained on direct relief are more likely to follow this pattern all their lives. Direct relief all too often invites the curse of idleness and fosters other evil of dole.

The analysis of the cause the need should point the direction for us to follow. We usually find that need arises from of the following causes:

246

EXALTING THE POOR

Sickness — This may be of a temporary nature or of long duration. It is here that the visiting of the sick by the Relief Society is so urgent. First, we should be diligent to discover the conditions of the needy and, second, give the necessary assistance dictated by the circumstances.

Failure to manage economic affairs — In our efforts to exalt the poor, we must teach the management of financial affairs. Abraham Lincoln gave us a key when he said:

You cannot bring about prosperity by discouraging thrift.
You cannot strengthen the weak by weakening the strong.
You cannot help the poor by destroying the rich.
You cannot establish sound security on borrowed money.
You cannot escape trouble by spending more than you earn.
You cannot build character by taking away a man's initiative and independence.
You cannot help men permanently by doing for them what they could and should have done for themselves.

I should think that the Relief Society can do much good in training the mothers in the proper handling of money — helping them to set up a budget and to teach the habits of thrift and home management.

Indeed, a concentrated effort should be made in this respect, for many of our people have little understanding of the principle of budgeting and making accounts.

Benjamin Franklin told of the effectiveness of this virtue. He said:

In 1733 I sent one of my journeymen to Charleston, South Carolina, where a printer was wanting. I furnished him with a press and letters,

on an agreement of partnership by which I was to receive one third of the profits of the business, paying one third of the expense. He was a man of learning and honest but ignorant of the matters of account, and tho' he sometimes made me remittance, I could get no account from him. nor any satisfactory state of our partnership while he lived. On his decease the business was continued by his widow, who being born and bred in Holland, where as I have been informed, the knowledge of accounts makes part of a female education, she not only sent me as clear a statement as she could find of the transactions past, but continued to account with greatest regularity and exactness every quarter afterwards, and managed the business with such success that she not only brought up respectably a family of children, but at the expiration of the time was able to purchase of me the printing house and established her son in it.

Sisters, the bishops have been charged by the Lord with the responsibility of managing the affairs of the poor — they need your help to avoid waste, to teach mothers to operate their homes on a budget, not to overextend themselves financially, learn to live simply, overcome extravagant habits, and avoid unnecessary debt.

Idleness — This problem is, no doubt, caused by environment and, although it has been stated, "He that is idle shall not eat the bread . . . of the laborer," it does not relieve us of the responsibility to help, but rather gives us a challenge to teach the idler the blessings of labor that he may enjoy the virtue of industry. Once having been taught this, it will add greatly to his character.

Lack of Education — Today, one of the serious problems is the lack of training and education of those unemployed. In this

247

APRIL 1964

day of mechanical advancement and automation, specialized and technical training is a must to continuous employment.

"During periods of unemployment," one prominent financial writer states, "there are four times as many men with less than high school education unemployed as compared to those men with more than a high school education." With more schooling, men not only tend to have more job security but also tend to earn more money.

The United States Department of Labor has published statistics based on the 1958 Census figures which compare the average earnings of high school graduates, high school "dropouts," and eighth grade graduates. These figures indicate that a high school graduate's earning capacity is greater by approximately $2,000 a year. Let's reduce this figure to $1,500 for illustrative purposes. Using this figure, if a young man should at age twenty-one deposit his extra earnings each year in the bank at 4% interest compounded semiannually, at the age of sixty-five he would have saved $176,874.21. To find out how much each day of high school attendance would be worth in terms of probable future lifetime earnings, let us divide the $176,874.21 by 700 days of high school attendance. Each day spent in high school would thus be worth $252.67. The difference between the probable lifetime earnings of a person with four or more years of college, as compared with the high school graduate, would be approximately $3,000 a year.

You will recognize that the failure of youth to seek adequate education and training may become a serious handicap through their whole life. President David O. McKay states, "Students enter school primarily to gain economic and social advantage. But this aim is not always achieved, nor is it, nor should it be, the highest purpose of education. However, we must not underestimate the value of obtaining an education for a livelihood. Education for economic advancement is a good investment for the individual as well as for the state."¹

Many mothers do not realize the importance of seeing that their sons and daughters secure the proper education needed to keep pace with the demands of employment. We must take advantage of every opportunity to teach and warn parents of the serious consequences that arise when children become school "dropouts."

Handicap — What a wonderful thing it would be for the Relief Society in the wards to seek out the handicapped; to see what might be done to provide a program to have them feel the thrill of achievement.

Death — Particular attention should be given to every family where death strikes. The love and warmth rendered by the Relief Society have been so beneficial. Where serious problems arise because of the passing of the father or mother, special attention is to be given by the Relief Society under the direction of the bishop.

Thus, in summary, some of the responsibilities of the Relief Society in the welfare program are:

248

EXALTING THE POOR

1. To assist the Priesthood in rendering immediate help and the ultimate rehabilitation of the needy.
2. To strengthen the homes and train the mothers in the arts of homemaking, including financial management.
3. To teach mothers the necessity of adequate training and education for their sons and daughters.
4. To administer to the needs of the sick and the handicapped.
5. To bring comfort and understanding to families where death is experienced.
6. To live the principles of the gospel — teach by example and precept.

In closing, let me suggest the words of our prophet David O.

McKay, "The greatest blessings that will accrue from the Church Security Plan are spiritual. Outwardly, every act seems to be directed toward the physical — remaking of dresses and suits of clothes, canning fruits and vegetables, storing foodstuffs, choosing of fertile fields for settlement — but permeating all these acts, inspiring and sanctifying them, is the element of spirituality."

May the Lord bless us as we serve together in this great welfare program is my humble prayer. And I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

¹The Relief Society Magazine VI, 129
²The Church Welfare Plan, page 2
³Mt. 19:21
⁴James 1:27
⁵D&C 84:112
⁶The Church Welfare Plan, page 3

⁷The Church Welfare Plan, page 44
⁸As a Man Thinketh, page 8
⁹1 Tim. 5:8
¹⁰Relief Society Minutes, March 17, 1842
¹¹Gospel Ideals, page 429

Neighbor Child

Margery S. Stewart

She does not wait to be asked in,
Rings the bell . . . darts under my arm,
Skips like a sparrow around
The minutes, picking up brief worms
Of my greeting.
I love you, she says.
The words are three sickles.
We stand waiting.
She must see all the windows at once,
Ask all the questions in a tumble,
Put the pale tongue of her finger
On everything she passes.
I love, she says,
Everything becomes still. . . .
Waiting. . . .

Like a pond for another pebble perhaps?
No.
Like the kitten for another leap
From the long dead cicada?
No.
I look at the child and she looks
At my mouth . . . willing it to form
Words.
I love, she says:
The teacher waits in her eyes.
I love you, I say unhappily.
She takes the three stones,
Blesses them,
And departs.

249

Marjorie C. Pingree Appointed to the General Board

Elizabeth B. Winters
Member,
General Board of Relief Society

MARJORIE Cannon Pingree was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society on January 15, 1964. She was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, a daughter of Lewis M. Cannon (son of Angus M. Cannon, who served as president of Salt Lake Stake for twenty-eight years) and Mary Alice Cannon, daughter of George Q. Cannon. Her mother died when she was five years old, and her father, who had served as a bishop for twenty-two years, died when Marjorie was in college.

Mrs. Pingree was educated in the Salt Lake City schools, was graduated from the University of Utah, and taught school for three years. She has served in many positions of leadership in the Church, including ward Primary president; a member of the Ensign Stake Primary Board; YWMIA teacher and counselor in her ward; president of Ensign Second Ward Relief Society; literature class leader in her ward. Literature has always held special interest for her.

In 1928 Marjorie Cannon and J. Fred Pingree were married in the Salt Lake temple. Brother Pingree is a Salt Lake City business man. He has served as Ensign Stake clerk and has been a member of the stake High Council for fifteen years. The Pingrees have four children: Patricia (Mrs. Vernon B. Romney), who served as a stake missionary in Washington, D.C., and is now a member of the General Board of the Primary Association; J. Fred, Jr., who served as a missionary in Central America; George C., who served in the New England Mission, and is now a medical doctor with the armed forces in France; John C., who served a mission in Argentina. All of the sons were called as counselors to their respective mission presidents. The daughter and sons, like their parents, are all graduates of the University of Utah. She has nine grandchildren.

Sister Pingree brings to the General Board her outstanding ability, experience, a gracious personality, devotion to the Church, and a willingness to serve.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

250

Darlene C. Dedekind Appointed to the General Board

Irene W. Buehner
Member
General Board of Relief Society

DARLENE Christensen Dedekind was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, January 15, 1964. She has accepted this responsibility with a sweet spirit of humility and willingness to serve our Heavenly Father. Her wide background of rich spiritual experience in Church service ably qualifies her for her new position.

Sister Dedekind is the daughter of Emilius A. and Ellen J. Pehrson Christensen. She was born in Fairview, Utah. Her father was a convert from Copenhagen, Denmark. These two devoted Latter-day Saints endowed their children with an abiding appreciation for the gospel, as well as a gift for gracious living. The family has lived in Salt Lake City, Kansas City, Minneapolis, and Chicago. After one year of college she was called to serve in the Texas Mission under President ElRay L. Christianson. She has attended the University of Utah and the University of Minnesota.

On July 25, 1941, in the Salt Lake Temple, she was married to Dr. Kenneth L. Dedekind, an oral surgeon. They are the parents of three lovely daughters, Kendra Lyn, a junior at the University of Utah; Deborah Ceanne, a freshman at the University of Utah; and Sandra Jo, a junior at East High School.

During the years Sister Dede-

[PHOTOGRAPH]

kind has demonstrated her love for the gospel and her leadership ability by serving in YWMIA ward presidencies, Hillside Stake Primary presidency, and ward Relief Society presidencies. At the time of her appointment to the General Board she was serving as a Monument Park Stake missionary, as well as a ward social science class leader.

Sister Dedekind, faithful to her heritage, has created a completely gracious, charming home for her family. She embodies and radiates the sterling qualities of dignity, gentility, and humility. Surely these attributes, coupled with her sincere testimony of the gospel and earnest desire to serve, will enable her to magnify the call which has come to her and add great strength to the General Board.

251

Cleone R. Eccles
Appointed
to the General Board

Jeanette M. Morrell

[PHOTOGRAPH]

CLEONE RICH ECCLES was appointed to the General Board of the Relief Society on January 15, 1964. She has a noble heritage, a fervent testimony of the gospel, a charming personality, and a background of travel and experience.

She is the granddaughter of apostle Charles C. Rich, and the daughter of Dr. Edward I. Rich and Emily Almira Cozzens, pioneers in the professional and cultural development of Weber County. Her mother was Mount Ogden Stake president of the Relief Society for twenty-three years, so she was reared in an atmosphere of the highest ideals of Relief Society.

She attended the New England Conservatory of Music, where she received professional training on the violin. During her entire life she has been most generous in sharing her great talent.

She married Royal Eccles in the Salt Lake Temple on August 22, 1918. He passed away February 5, 1963. They are the parents of six children: Maren E. Hardy (Washington D.C.); Cleone E. Yeates (Salt Lake City, Utah); Claire E. Matthies (Ogden, Utah); Edward Rich Eccles (deceased); Myrelle E. Thomas (Salt Lake City, Utah); Justin Rich Eccles (Los Alamitos, California).

She has been active in civic affairs, serving as a member of the Weber County Welfare Board from 1937 to 1955.

In musical circles she served as a member of the Utah State Symphony Board. She was active in bringing the Community Concert Association to Ogden, and was vice-president of that organization from 1935 to 1956.

Her Church activities have included seven years as Sunday School teacher; four years as stake president of the Mount Ogden YWMIA; four years as president of the Twelfth Ward Relief Society; four years as president of the Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society; and five years as literature class leader in her home ward Relief Society.

Her capacity for sympathetic understanding and her unselfish desire to serve in any capacity, will make her a valuable member of the Relief Society General Board.

252
