[Vol51 | April 1964 | Page 263 | Fiction | More Blessed to Receive | Nita Ellis]

More Blessed to Receive

Nita Ellis
Penarth, Glamorganshire, South Wales

WELL, you're on your way home, Susan. Glad?" Douglas, big and tow-haired, smiled at his wife, sitting listlessly beside him in the car. He noted, with a pang, that her pretty blue suit fitted her more loosely than it had done six week ago.

"Of course, darling!" She said it quietly — too quietly. And because they had been close to one another for so many years, he understood at once.

"Now, you don't have to take it that hard. It won't hurt you to let others do the jobs you've always done. I've got it all arranged. Mrs. James is to come every day instead of once a week, and we'll have a nice, quiet holiday somewhere."

"I don't want a nice quiet holiday, Doug. I just want to do my own housework, and not watch someone else doing it."

His smile became wry, as though he realized the futility of trying to placate her. He said nothing, his anxious, gray eyes fixed on the dusty road ahead.

I shall never get used to it, she thought, miserably, never. The memory of the hospital surgeon's advice, bluntly matter-of-fact, brought her near to tears.

"You've led a very active life, Mrs. Stratton," he had said, "now you must reorganize things, so that you take it more easily. If you do that, you can expect to have as many more years as most of us. If you don't, this trouble will certainly flare up again, and then. . . ." He had left the sentence unfinished, but his eloquent shrug had left a bleakness in Susan's tired face.

Now, with the car purring its way through the busy town to the outskirts, and the new house

263

APRIL 1964

to which they had moved only a short time before Susan's illness, she gathered the last twenty-five years together in her thoughts, all of them busy, vital, active. She had taken so much more in her stride besides marriage and family. The many varied Church interests, her garden, the flower arrangement classes that had grown into a local society, the old people who had come to rely on her visits in times of bad weather — the list was endless. And now. . . .

She watched the fields, green with summer, and tall trees that curtseyed in the warm breeze against the blue softness of the sky, but her mind was shut against the beauty of the tender afternoon. Lulled by the heat, she dozed, drooping a little against her husband's shoulder, her dark hair spraying into curves across her damp brow.

THE sound of a familiar bark startled her, and she opened her eyes to see Wilkie leaping down the path, in an ecstatic flurry of doggy welcome. She was home! The rose-red brick house was sun-mellowed, its windows sparkling. Cathy, looking fresh and pretty, in a white linen frock, was standing at the gate, with one-year-old Peter in her arms. "Lovely to have you back, Mum," she called. Tom hopped, as Douglas helped his wife carefully from the car.

Susan's face lighted up as she encircled her daughter's slim waist, and stroked Wilkie's madly bobbing head. She savored the warm velvet of her grandson's tiny head against her cheek for a long moment before stepping

into the coolness of the hall. It smelled of polish and was brilliant with flowers. In the big living room the table was laid with her best china, bowls of fruit and jellies colorful against her gossamer lace cloth. In the place of honor stood a large iced cake, with "Welcome Home" written on it.

"Everyone's been so good," Cathy told her. "Mrs. Elliott brought the cake this morning. From the Relief Society, with love, she said. And those flowers in the hall were sent, already fixed in the containers, from the Arrangement Society."

That really was thoughtful. What a lot of work went into those kindnesses. The ready tears threatened again, as Susan leaned back in the comfortable chair, trying to overcome them.

"Your father says that you have managed splendidly, Cathy," she said, at last.

"Of course, Mum. I brought Peter with me, and Mrs. James kept an eye on him, while I did the shopping and cooking. I was always home in time to collect the twins from school and fix Tom's meal. He sends his love — coming over tomorrow."

SUSAN felt as though the relationship between them had been reversed. She had always felt that Cathy needed help, with an old-fashioned house, a lively baby, and twins only just five. But the young woman who spoke so confidently, had a brisk capable air that disconcerted her.

"I don't know what we should have done without you," Susan admitted. Cathy's answering smile was a serene acceptance of

264

MORE BLESSED TO RECEIVE

her own capabilities, instead of the glow of a girl paid an unexpected compliment.

Through the window, Susan could see the flower beds, still bare, framing the new lawn. No one had touched the garden, she thought. I don't think I could have borne it, if they'd done that job for me. Conscious of the silence, she said, stubbornly, "I'd planned to do everything myself—the rose circle — rockery — all of it. There's no satisfaction like working on new ground with your own hands."

"Don't worry, dear, we'll see to it," her husband promised, cheerfully, but she shook her head.

Douglas had done all the hardest preparation in their former garden, but he hadn't the feeling for growing things, as Susan had. It had never mattered that he had brains but no skill with his hands, as that plot of earth had been all hers, and she was proud of her green fingers.

"It wouldn't be the same," she replied, gently.

The tiny, awkward pause was broken by the sound of a gate slamming, feet skidding over the shining floor, and her son hurtling through the room.

"Lo, Mum." He gave her a brief, rough hug, thrusting a posy of tight, pink rosebuds into her hands. "Gosh, I'm glad you're back! What we got to eat?" He registered approval of the loaded table with a grinning "Wow! Get a load of that cake!"

THE tension was eased, and Susan ran fond blue eyes over the sturdy rosy-cheeked figure in the slightly faded jeans. He had not been allowed to visit her in the hospital because he was only fourteen and she had missed him.

"Thanks, Kenny," she said, lifting the blooms, and inhaling their perfume. "They're lovely."

"Thought they'd go into old Noddy's cart." Kenny began to set chairs around the table. "Seeing you got no flowers growing yet."

"Go and wash your hands, son." Douglas spoke sharply, and Kenny stared at him.

"Take it easy with you," suggested his mother. "Run a little water in, and you can arrange them for me." She turned to the recess where the little donkey and cart, modeled out of cream and brown pottery usually stood.

"I put it away, Mum," explained Cathy. "In the hall cupboard, Kenny — back of the top shelf. I wasn't having it broken while I was in charge," she went on, "I put your favorite ornament out of Pete's way."

It was a happy meal. Kenny kept them laughing, and baby Peter, bolstered by cushions, lolled contentedly, at his granie's side. Douglas touched his wife's fingers, as she passed plates, and the small, sweet contact eased the pain of knowing that he would never completely understand how she felt about the surgeon's verdict.

LONG after Douglas was asleep that night, Susan lay, watching the sparkle of moonlight netted in the branches outlined against her window. Her body was taut and unrelaxed, while mentally, she took up, one by one, thoughts of the future. To be still was only to be half alive. Oh, yes, she

265

APRIL 1964

could cut down on a few things, but not all of them. If she was busy, she was happy — and, surely, if she was happy, she would be well, she argued to herself. She wasn't going to let them close in a protective circle around her, taking all her life away from her, doing the things she had always done.

When Cathy left the following day, she took a bundle of laundry with her.

"There's no need," Susan protested, indignantly.

"It's just that there's extra this week," Cathy said, trying to soothe her. "Mrs. James has had other things to cope with, and my washing machine's as good as yours."

Her smile was impish, affectionate, the kind she used to coax Peter out of a difficult mood, and the feeling of unreality invaded Susan again.

"I'm not an invalid, Cath."

"No, dear, you're convalescent. Remember how you looked after me, when Peter was born?"

"That was different."

"It wasn't different at all. It's nice to be doing something for you. Couldn't you try looking at things that way? You've helped so many people, and they're all longing to say 'thank you.' I met Judy Elliott on the way here this morning, and she says she'd just love to plant the flower beds for you."

"Thank you," said Susan, firmly, "but I don't want the garden touched."

"It will have to be done some time," Cathy pointed out with sweet reasonableness. "Bye, Mum. See you tomorrow."

Her smile was unperturbed,

and Susan, watching her wheel Peter down the drive, dashed away the weak tears that seemed to be always near the surface. Cathy, she reflected, was grown up in a way she had never been before. She seemed a competent stranger, as firmly efficient as the starched hospital nurse had been.

WHEN Douglas came home unexpectedly from the office some days later, he met Susan coming downstairs with her arms full of anemone. She looked at him defiantly. "I promised to make these up, before I went into hospital. There's nothing to a few hours sewing."

"Those are for the club canteen, aren't they? Surely someone else could have taken over a job of that kind."

"Judy Elliott offered to, but I wanted to do it, Douglas."

"What else have you been doing?" he asked, gently, seeing her strained, pale face.

"I sorted over the piece box to find scraps for the patchwork quilt we're making, and cut out some felt toys for the work meeting. Just quiet jobs. That's all."

"Absolutely all?" he pursued, relentlessly.

"Well, I just walked over to see the Wilsons. They have both been ill for months, and they love visitors. It wasn't far. Don't look so accusing."

"It's too much, Susan. You're beginning again, taking up all the old jobs, and you can't do that."

"You don't know how it feels to have people coming over to help, Mrs. James with the jam making, Cathy whisking away

266

MORE BLESSED TO RECEIVE

odd parcels of laundry, Judy offering to plant my garden. You can't understand how I hate taking."

"You've always given." He drew the finished curtains from her. "Sometimes it's more blessed to receive, my dear."

THERE was a babble of young voices outside, and Susan turned as the door burst open, to admit Jane and Tony, as alike as two peas in a pod.

"I'm ok, Grannie," they piped, "look what we've brought you — flowers."

Brown earth and green stains smeared the chubby knees of the twins, and in their dusty warm hands they held tightly bundled dandelion heads.

"To put in Noddy's cart," explained Jane, breathlessly. Waving her fistful of flashy gold, she ran to the window sill, where Noddy the donkey stood in happiness between the chintz curtains. Excitedly she grabbed. There was a small gasp from Susan and a crash as the ornament hit a chair. The donkey lay on his side on the carpet his cart broken away from him.

At the sight of grannie's face, Jane's round cheeks flushed and her brown eyes clouded. "I didn't mean to break Noddy, Grannie. I only wanted to put loose flowers in his cart. Please don't be cross. I couldn't help it."

Tony put one grubby arm around his sister's shoulders. "They can mend it," he said with male nonchalance. "Mummy's got some glue that can stick anything."

Susan's look rested on them, two hot, tired little scraps, with

their carefully picked gifts still clutched against their panting chests.

Douglas thought he had never seen anything more graceful than the swift droop of his wife's body to receive those gifts. She buried her face in the yellow weeds, crying out how beautiful they were.

"I'll put them in the little green bowl — see? I'll put some water in it. And the donkey can be mended quite easily." She went out, the children dancing around her, their shrill delight filling the house.

BUT after her daughter had taken her little ones home, Susan inspected Noddy unhappily.

"It won't show, Susan," her husband said. "It broke at the right part, luckily."

"Remember buying this little fellow?" Her voice quivered. "The first present you ever gave me?" She fingered the small animal lovingly. "All through the years, I've grown dwarf plants in a rockery, to supply his cart. I've never thought of him as a china figure, but a symbol. A reminder of the happiness we've shared. Now, he is patched up — he'll never be the same." Her face crumpled. "Like me — just like me!" The tears she had held back for so long flowed unheeded. She buried her face in her hands and sobbed.

Douglas picked her up bodily, holding her close, waiting until she was calm enough to listen to him. "You make it difficult for us, darling. We all love you and want to help. We want you to get better."

"Better for what? If I can't do the things I've always done,

267

APRIL 1964

what's left? Oh, I'm sorry, dear. I'm behaving badly, but I can't seem to help it."

"You must, Susan," he told her calmly. "You've got to work this out for yourself. You know that." But as he bent over her, feeling the softness of her cheek, he doubted whether she ever would.

THE tension of inner conflict hung over the entire house. Its central point was the naked-looking garden that none of them dared touch. It would have been their contribution to Susan's defeat.

Kenny was too young to understand that, but the bare stretch beyond the French doors fretted him. He said to his father one day, "Aren't we ever going to put any flowers in the garden?"

"I expect Mum will do something about it, when she feels better, Ken," Douglas replied, guardedly.

Kenny frowned over his homework, thinking about something one of the boys at school had told him. A party held in the garden instead of the house, where everyone brought a plant to put in the ground. Thoughts soon shaped into an idea that was both wonderful and simple. If his mother didn't feel like making the garden pretty, they could all get together and do it for her. It was just a question of getting enough people, and he knew most of those she worked with. The important thing was to keep it a secret from her.

His mother was sewing in the living room. "What kind of flowers do you like best, Mum?" he inquired.

"I like them all," she told him. "Why?"

"Oh, I just wondered. What sort would you like in your garden?"

"Ken!" his father said, hurriedly, "isn't it almost your bedtime?"

After Kenny had gone, thoughtfully, upstairs, Susan said, "Poor old Ken. He can't be expected to know how I feel."

"Are you going to leave it as it is?" Douglas asked.

"I suppose I shall have to have something done," she conceded, reluctantly. "But I don't mind what. It isn't important."

"It was, once, Susan."

"Yes, but that was my garden, then. It was to have been my own achievement, and I suppose I just don't want to give it up."

IF she had been less preoccupied, she would have noticed the banded-together look that enclosed her family.

"Somebody's got to do something to wake Mum up, and make her realize how selfish she's being," Cathy had said to her father.

"Selfish, Cath? Is that fair?"

"Yes. How would she have felt if all the people she has helped had refused to accept anything from her?"

The relationship between Cathy and her mother had changed, Douglas thought. Cathy was no longer the woundhouse-wife, needing support and advice. He doubted, suddenly, whether that Cathy had existed, except in Susan's imagination. But it must be hard to realize that one was no longer indispensable, he

268

MORE BLESSED TO RECEIVE

thought, with a flash of compassion.

Some days later, Douglas took Susan out for the afternoon and when they returned, it was to find people, busy with trowels and boxes of plants, crowding the garden.

"What's this?" Susan demanded, her face tight with dismay.

Douglas turned her round to face him. "This was Ken's idea. We thought it a good one. These are the folks you've helped for years. This is their way of thanking you — the labor of their hands. Are you going to tell them to leave, because it's your place, or accept the gifts we've brought, and will go on bringing as long as you'll let us?"

Susan's expression altered. Her eyes shone as she watched her friends. "I've been stupid to want to be independent. See how happy they look!"

Walking towards them, her voice lifted, joyously, "Douglas has just told me what you have planned. It's a wonderful surprise, and the best present I've had in my whole life."

Kenny, disheveled and earnest, appeared. "Is it a good garden party, Mum?"

Susan's laugh held the old merry ring. "It's the best idea you ever had, Ken," she assured him, and, sensing that his Mum was herself again, he beamed.

"Where d'you want these rose trees put?" he asked, importantly.

---
