[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | December | Issue: 13 | Title: OUR MODERN DORCAS | Author: Unknown]

OUR MODERN DORCAS

	There are, in our day, women whose
deeds compare favorably with Dorcas, who
lived in the days of Jesus' Apostles, who
was so beloved of the people; and whose name
has been perpetuated as synonymous with
benevolent associations down to the pres-

[COLUMN 2]

ent time. Writers of the day refer to this good
woman (Dorcas,) as a pattern of humility;
"doing what her hands found to do with all
her might;" which is no doubt a just con-
clusion, but to say she had no aspirations of
a higher nature, no thought of what her
work was accomplishing, that her brain was
not exercised as well as her heart and
hands, seems simply absurd. Women in
those times were endowed with intellect
and wisdom, and no doubt Dorcas under-
stood her vocation and worked with a pur-
pose, as the good sisters work in our day.
	This is perhaps merely an assertion, but
it has as much to sustain it, as the conclusion
drawn by the writers, who bring Dorcas for-
ward for such women to imitate, as have a
desire to vote, to legislate or "orate." She,
they affirm, had no ambitions for any of
these things. Now how do they know?
They were not there, and all they know of
her is a few words recorded in the Bible
from which they draw their own inference;
but being a woman and understanding a
woman's feelings, I should say she worked
for a purpose, no doubt that purpose was a
great one, and she was governed and guid-
ed by the circumstances of the time in
which she lived, and her devotion to the
cause she had espoused. The Savior when
upon the earth; taught the Gospel in its ful-
ness, and set the pattern for all to follow; in
many instances recorded in the New Testa-
ment, He manifested His great reverence for
women, and upon every occasion spoken of,
women were treated with affection and ten-
derness. This is particularly noticeable in
all His life and teachings. I am very will-
ing to believe that Dorcas was full of pious
zeal, that she worked with her hands and
made coats and garments for the poor, that
she comforted and blessed with good deeds
and acts of real kindness and loving words,
the widows and orphans. How beautiful is
such a life; how Christ-like the memorial of
such charity. "And all the widows stood
by him weeping and showing the coats and
garments which Dorcas made while she
was with them."
	How blessed is the work of such as live
to minister to others, forgetful of self, live
for God and His Kingdom. Surely the an-
gels have joy in watching over these prec-
ious, chosen ones, whose lives are devoted
to the noble and holy work of elevating,
purifying and refining the human family.
	In the Scriptures written by the Apos-
tles they recorded the things which
seemed most essential, but the acts and
charaties of women were almost left out,
although here and there they are mention-
ed in a casual manner, showing that their
good deeds were of common occurrence,
otherwise when these things were mention-
ed, the facts would be much more explicit.
	From the reading of the paragraph in re-
lation to Dorcas, one might infer that she
had filled some important position. There
is no doubt Dorcas had charge of some or-
ganisation for the poor, the widows and the
orphans, that her work was a great one, and
that when she died, they felt there was no
one to fill her place, and accomplish so much
good as she could have done. She was so
beloved by the people because she was ex-
tensively known for good works; as one that
ministered to the needy and desolate. Mod-

[COLUMN 3]

ern writers want us to believe that Dorcas
whom they hold up as a pattern for emula-
tion, stayed at home and stitched away for
the love of Jesus without any ambitious
ideas of what she would accomplish; "she
knew how to sew" which I suppose is inten-
ded as a hit for the Dorcas of modern
times, who does not sit and sew all day
and night too, and wear out her life, si-
lently and unobtrusively. I believe that
women should know how to sew, but I do not
believe in incessant stitching, and perhaps,
after all Dorcas may not have put in all those
stitches herself personally. We say Solo-
mon built the Temple, but we do not mean
by that assertion that he did it with his
own hands, but that he had charge of its
construction.
	There are those like Dorcas whose works
are manifest among us now, who are devot-
ing time, talents and means to the noblest
ends. Women whose names will be held in
remembrance, not only now, but hereafter.
Women whose deeds will shame those who
have had more abundant opportunities and
have not improved them. Is it not consist-
ent to honor these women whom we have
in our midst, who labor diligently with
head, heart and hands to promote the high-
est interests of the whole human family?
I believe it to be not only consistent but a
duty. Then while we esteem the Dorcas who
dwelt upon the earth so many hundred
years ago, let us also reverence those who
live in our day, who are giving their all
towards the work of benefitting and bless-
ing and preparing the earth for the millen-
nium.
	It is the custom of the whole world, to
extol the names of the dead and enumerate
their virtues, and let the living go unre-
warded; forgetful that they too are deserv-
ing of honor, and that a word of kindness
or appreciation, an acknowledgement of
their manifold labors would be far more ac-
ceptable to them while living than any trib-
ute to their memory after they are dead.
	It is recorded of Dorcas that she was
known for her "good works and alms'
deeds." Blessed record to be handed down
to her future generations; but there is a
duty to the living, and it would be well to
bear in mind that there are those in our
midst who have devoted themselves exclu-
sively to good deeds, and shall we wait un-
til they are dead to do them reverence?
Let it not be said of us who profess so much,
that we immortalize the names of the an-
cient Dorcas and yet we lack in doing our
duty and showing proper reverence to those
who are with us; if not, then what better
are we than the world? "Do not even the
publicans, the same?" We are said to be a
peculiar people, let us prove it by cherish-
ing those who devote their lives to the
work of the kingdom of God.
	THYRA.
S. L. City, Nov. 21, 1876.


No true artist ever worked yet for ambi-
tion. He does the thing that is in him to
do by a force far stronger than himself. The
first fruits of a man's genius are always free
from greed.


