Vol. 30	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1901.		No. 4


CONTENTS.
Visit to Canada.........Louisa L. Green Richards	5
A Woman Missionary........................................	25
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting....J. S. Woolley	26
Pioneer Day in Chicago.....................................	26
International Council Notes..............................	27
Successful Celebration......................................	27
Autobiography of Sarah B. Layton...................	30
In Memoriam.....................................................	31
R. S. Reports......................................................	31

EDITORIAL—Our Beloved President..............	28
	Little Marian’s Birthday Party...................	29
	A Delightful Evening.................................	30
	Editorial Notes...........................................	30
POETRY—The Soul’s Discovery.Marie Correlli	25
	Little Things..........................Ellis R. Shipp	25
	Days and Deeds that Live   Zina E. Walker	27


THE SOUL’S DISCOVERY.

			I have found Thee, O God !
Not in cold temples made with human hands,
	But in the broad beneficence of skies,
And in the flowering-time of meadow lands.

			I have heard Thy Voice,
Not in the pauses of a priestly prayer,
	But in the tender whispering of the leaves,
And in the daily breathing of the air.

			I have felt Thy Touch,
Not in the rush of world’s delight or gain,
	But in heart-breaking agony and tears,
And in the slow pulsation of strong pain.

			I have known Thy Love,
Not when earth’s flattering friends around me
		smiled,
	But in deep solitude of desolate days—
Then wast Thou very gentle with Thy child !

			I have seen Thy Face,
Not only in the Great Light of the Cross,
	But through the darkness of forgotten graves
And in the dawning recompense of loss.

			Yea, I have found Thee, God !
Thy breath doth fill me with a fire divine—
	And were a thousand worlds like this my foes,
The battle would be brief—the victory mine!
		MARIE CORRELLI in The May Book.


LITTLE THINGS.
A little act of kindness, a gentle tone of love.
Oft lifts the heart from sadness, oft leads the soul
	above.
As little buds and blossoms expand to beauteous
	flowers,
So all the little moments grow into longer hours.
Our little faults and failings oft lead to greater
	wrong,
Till vain regret and wailings, remorse and pain
	prolong,
But constant little efforts will every fault subdue,
And lead to grand perfection, and joys our path-
	way strew.
Our fervent, lone petitions, though scarce above a
	breath.
Have reached to holy mansions, have stayed the
	hand of death.
Thus time in fleeting numbers, glides onward day
	by day,
Till myriad generations have slowly passed away.
So little bars of music beneath a master’s stroke,
Have swelled to pealing anthems, and inspirations
	woke.
To humble vain ambition, to moisten weary eyes,
While hearts with benedictions, mount upward to
	the skies.
The earth and sky and ocean and all which they,
	contain,
Had birth in tiny atoms, which dormant long had
	lain,
Sweet music, flowers and sunshine, life’s hopes and
	joys and loves,
Are glimpses of Elysian that we shall find
	above.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO CANADA.
Dear Exponent:
	Sister Susan Grant and myself left Salt
Lake City for Canada on the evening of
Thursday, May 23, 1901. The mission
before us was to visit the different branches
of the Relief Society and Primary Asso-
ciation in the Alberta Stake of Zion.
	Yesterday, July 11, we completed that
mission, holding our last official meeting
with the Relief Society in Ætna. We held
meetings in nine settlements, namely,
Ætna, Cardston, Caldwell, Kimball, Leav-
itt, Magrath, Mountain View, Sterling and
Taylor. Beazer, a small, widely scattered
ward, has as yet no Relief Society or
Primary organization. We would have
been glad to visit there, however, and but
for stormy weather and bad roads, which
have hindered our work to some extent,
should likely have had the privilege of
doing so.
	Of the work being done in the Relief
Society here, we have certainly only good
to report. Never has it been our good for-
tune to find truer or more energetic work-
ers in the cause than those who are en-
gaged in it in this locality.
	Sister Mary L. Woolf possesses in
truth and in a very high degree the spirit
of her calling as president of the Relief
Society in this Stake. The faith, courage,
patience and wisdom which she exhibits in
her work, seem to be so heartily approved,
supported and emulated by all who are
laboring in connection with her, that a
most perfect unity appears to be maintained
in all their undertakings, and they under-
take a vast amount of work for the pro-
gress of the kingdom of God, as well as the
world in general, where occasion offers.
	What more need be presented to show a
good and healthy state of affairs in any
organization?
	They have taken hold of the idea of the
Woman’s Building soon to be erected near
the Temple in Salt Lake City, with a zest
which promises well for the assistance they
expect to render towards its completion.
And that is the way they seem to grasp and
carry out every plan which is presented for
the furtherance of the good cause.
	Realizing that a short report will be read
by more people and with greater interest
than a lengthy one, while much more
might be told of the meritorious work being
done by the society here, I will conclude
this with the following lines.

	TO SISTER SUSAN GRANT.
My Sister! These dear days we spent together,
	Soon but a happy memory will be;
Fatigue and sacrifice and stormy weather,
	Will all be counted good, with you and me.

I know and love you better since this mission,
	Has proven you most prudent and sincere;
Your even, kind and pleasant disposition,
	Inspiring faith and hope brings joyous cheer.

How oft shall we recall the happy hours
	We pass in riding o’er this broad, fair land;
its dearth of trees, but wealth of grass and
		flowers,
	Its mountains far away, yet bold and grand.

[Column 2]
Oft will we muse with tender recollections
	Of meetings, sociables, the warm regards,
The hospitality of friends, connections—
	Woolfs, Allens, Hinmans, Duces, Hammers,
		Cards.
And many more, too numerous to mention,
	Old friends and new, who have much kindness.
		shown;
And better still, such strict and wrapt attention
	To Gospel truths—God’s cause is made their
		own.
Such true brave Saints! We’re thankful we have 
		met them,
	And for the season we among them spend,
In all our lives we never can forget them,
	More than each other, my dear, loving friend. 
One question rises; have we filled this mission
	As faithfully and truly as we should?
They answer, “Yes,” so small their requisition, 
	They claim we’ve strengthened, blest and done
		them good.
			LOUISA L. GREENE RICHARDS.


A WOMAN MISSIONARY. 
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
			(Continued.)
	There is a grandeur in the sound of the
sea which seems to soothe the soul when
some one would intrude. It bears witness
of the Creator’s works.
	Last night the sick woman died. She
was laid out on clean grass, a white spread
thrown over her. Her face was not covered.
Some one sat with a large leaf to keep off
the flies. The coffin was made of a canoe
of tamana wood, (island mahogany) in
which she was laid after being wrapt thick-
ly in native cloth. A thick plank was
nailed on for a cover, outside the coffin
unnumbered thicknesses of cloth were
wound, native and European. The coffin
being of the most imperishable wood wrapt
in such a quantity of cloth, will not, in my
opinion, decay in fifty years. A great
feast was made by the relatives from which
all the people in the village received a
portion. The corpse was carried away on 
men’s shoulders without ceremony.
	Last evening we spent two hours in
gazing at the moon, expressing our sur-
prise at her singular appearance One 
part was red like blood emitting no light
at all, though nearly at the full. Brother
Alexander being a superstitious man pro-
nounced it a forerunner of evil. Told the
people with whom we were stopping it
was an omen of something strange to take
place. So long had we been away from
the world, and not having seen an alman-
ac in two years, we had forgotten there
was ever such a thing as an eclipse.
When it rushed upon our minds we were 
ashamed that we had not known it at first. 
We then explained all to the ignorant peo-
ple and their fears were removed.
	This morning I rose before the day
dawned and went to walk upon the beach.
The moon was shining with the most re-
splendent brightness. There was the very
stillness of death around me. All the
dwellings were fast locked in slumber, the 
tide had just receded far on the reef,
scarcely a breeze to be felt. The atmos-


[Column 1]
phere was calm as the sweet breath of
autumn but, oh, so solemn I gazed over 
the mighty ocean towards that land so far
away, and I seemed to feel that I had died
and gone to an unknown world.
	I at first thought I would raise my voice
in song, a morning hymn; but it seemed an
intrusion, on the sacredness of the hour to
make the least noise. I felt that secret
prayer was more congenial to the deathlike
stillness of that little world in the midst of
the mighty ocean. I revolved in my mind
the self-denial of my whole life, and said,
“If my Heavenly Father is pleased with
the little good I have done, all my sorrows
will be forgotten.”
	The 9th day. Last evening we moved
into the house Brother Alexander has been
several days preparing for us. It is a large
house all in one room, built in ancient
style, round ends. Three pillars in the
centre are covered with carved work curi-
ously wrought. The house is whitened
with coral lime inside and out, long grass
laid for a floor on which mats are spread.
Five high post bedsteads curtained around
with fine white tapa. A very long table
made from a tree which floated here from
some island, the leaf more than three feet
wide without a seam.
	The building is almost entirely shaded
with trees, large and covered with flowers,
their fragrance is delightful. Five rods
from the door the grand o’d tide rolls out
and in. A lover of nature could not help
admiring this situation. Nothing but the
want of society is felt here. The good peo-
ple sent us in food to last us a week, cooked
ready for use and nicely tied up in leaves.
	This morning I took a long walk to see
an old hollow tree which is reported to
have been in the “taueteni” the abode of a
man who was pursued by his enemies, a
whole year, and was fed by a sister. Nine
of us entered the tree together, had room
to move about. Two branches of equal
size supported by the middle are hollow,
and there are openings from one to the
other, so the man could change his position
when wearied with his confinement.
	From the tree we were conducted by
Alexander to one of the old “morai’s”
places of worship in the “taueteni.” It
consists of huge stones set up in the form
of a square room. One very high above the
rest they worshiped as God. Flat stones
are laid upon the ground, under which the
heads of their enemies are buried, sacrificed
to their gods A dense growth of cocoa
nuts overshadowed the place. We rested
beneath the cooling shade, drank freely of
the water and pursued our journey. Called
at a native house where everything was
neat and clean. A young woman was
seated on a mat with a babe in her arms.
We conversed with her in the Tahitian
tongue and she treated us to beauiful pine
apples.
	From thence we started on our way
home.  Not far had we gone when a mes-
senger met us with the joyful intelligence
that the Ravai was in port and “Paraita”
was on board.
	The two eldest daughters were far in the
rear. The messenger passed us and car-
ried the news to them. Quick and hasty
were their footsteps till they reached the
house and met their father. Now, they
exclaimed, our wishes are realized. When
the house was fitted up we felt it would
avail us nothing without company. We
were informed the vessel had encountered
three severe gales of wind since it left this

[Column 2]
port; did not make Tahiti, neither the chain
Islands, except Ana and Matea.
	The 11th day. Paraita preached three
times in the native language. The people
all appeared joyful on hearing the voice of
their missionary once more. 
			(Continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th Ward Hall, July 6, 1901,
President M. I. Horne presiding.
	Singing, “Arise, O glorious Zion.”
Prayer by Sister C. C. Cannon. Singing,
“O, say what is truth.” Minutes read and
approved.
	President Horne felt sorry we could not
hold the quarterly conference at the usual
time, but the house was undergoing repair
and could not be made ready. Felt happy
that our sister missionaries were doing so
good a work. President Lyman, who has
just returned from the British mission,
spoke of the good work the sister mission-
aries were doing there. Believed Christian
Science to be a strong delusion that is lead-
ing many away.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, who has just re-
turned from a two years’ mission in Great
Britain, felt the faith of the sisters here had
helped her in her missionary work. She
had found many good women who were
trying to find the truth, but the ministers
have a great influence over them. It is
very hard to reach them, they are so pre-
judiced against the word “Mormon,” but
some were glad to hear from the women in
Mormondom. The Lord is the one who
makes converts, it requires the mission-
aries to be faithful, prayerful, fast and thus
sow the seed. She desired the sisters to lay
their burdens at the feet of the Lord, and
after you have done your part do not mur-
mur Found the Relief Society in Ger-
many in a more prosperous condition than
elsewhere, said they were warm-hearted
and kind to the missionaries. People gen-
erally do not believe that men and women
will go into the world and preach this un-
popular doctrine without pay. Alluded to
the influence of women, how they were
branded by refusing a cup of tea or beer.
Spoke of the wicked spirit Mrs. Stenhouse’s
book brought to those who read it; also of
the evil influence Jarman people brought to
bear against us, they tell the most un-
reasonable lies. However there are a few
who will embrace the Gospel. Referred to
the bravery it takes to fight against error.
Thought she never honored her father so
much as when she thought of his departing
from his old home and following those who
had the true Gospel Felt she had re-
moved much prejudice among her father’s
family, that she had visited all the confer-
ences, and women that it was possible to
meet; that she had enjoyed her mission more
than she could express; had realized the
joy a little money brought to the mission-
aries in relieving their little wants. “Zion
is Zion” to those who make it such. The
spirit of the Gospel out in the world is one
of union and love. Exhorted all to live
righteously and love each other.
	Sister Pond spoke of the prejudice among
her relatives in the East, and of the good-
ness of the sisters to the missionaries
in the world. Told of her exper-
ience in bearing testimony to people in the
world and of their prejudices.
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson said Sis-

[Column 2]
ter Alder’s experience was very similar to
her own. The world thought the women
of Zion were down-trodden. Spoke of the
way “Mormons” are pointed at with a
finger of scorn by the people of the world,
and of the good that could be accomplished
among them; thought Lucy B Young was
doing a great deal of good in Germany,
though she is more than seventy years of
age.
	President M. I. Horne said the reason
we meet on Saturday is when Jordan
and Granite Stakes belonged to Salt Lake,
that it was a more convenient day for
women to meet here. In Granite Stake all
the branches of the Relief Society meet on
Thursdays. Would like all to pay their
dues within two weeks if possible. An-
nounced an excursion for next Tuesday to
Saltair, by the General Relief Society.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by J.
S. Woolley.
			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


PIONEER DAY IN CHICAGO.
	We are quite sure our readers will be
glad to know that Pioneer Day, July 24, 1901,
was appropriately celebrated by the few
Utah people who are at present located in
the great city of Chicago. It must have
been a very pleasing program, by the notes
of it we have seen, and it shows how some
educators who have come into our midst
have been impressed with our institutions
and our people.
	Col. Parker, who taught a summer
school in Provo, at the B. Y. Academy ten
years ago or more, and other members of
the faculty of the Chicago University, were
present by invitation at the Utah gather-
ing on Pioneer day, and Col. Parker ad-
dressed the audience. The following para-
graphs are taken from the report made to
the Deseret Evening News, of this city.

	Among the enjoyable features of the program
may be mentioned the song, “Utah, we love
thee.” by the whole company; a recitation by
Miss Maud May Babcock; a short address upon
Utah schools, by Mosiah Hall; The Chicago
University, by Guy C. Wilson; The Western Girl,
by Miss Bush a recitation by Miss Alexander;
two male quartetts by our missionaries and an
oration, “The Pioneers,” by N. J. Porter, which
was particularly fine.
	Col. Parker in a very happy mood described his
labors in Utah nine years ago, and closed a most
complimentary address by an impressive and elo-
quent prophecy, that the descendants of those
Pioneers, whose exploits we were commemorating,
would yet occupy heights in intellectual and moral
superiority in the world far greater than the alti-
tude of their mountain homes might symbolize.
	He was deeply impressed with the sturdy vir-
tues of the people whose contact with him quickly
brushed away his former prejudice and planted in
his heart a deep and abiding love and respect for
them.
	He was followed by Miss Ziona Baber and
Miss Flora J. Cooke, both of whom had labored
in Utah at summer schools for teachers. The
many Utah teachers who listened to them when
there will be pleased to know that the most
pleasing and vivid impressions were made upon
their minds while in Utah, and Miss Baber related
at length to the writer the delightful time she had
while in Utah.
	She lived with Aunt Zina Young during her so-
journ there, and learned much of the domestic life
of the Latter-day Saints, which impressed her
favorably in the highest degree. She mentioned
with the greatest admiration the children of men
who had more than one wife, as admirable types
physically and intellectually, and freely admitted
that Mormon domestic relations had been greatly
misrepresented and misunderstood.


Miss Alice Stone Blackwell returned to
Boston yesterday from her summer’s out-
ing at Martha’s Vineyard.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DAYS AND DEEDS THAT LIVE

There are days that never die,
	And stories never told,
Of a happiness gone by
	Deep in the heart we hold
Their meaning, and we linger,
	Along life’s pleasant way,
We do not stop to tell them.
	To others day by day.

We might make others free 
	Of grief, if we would speak,
And whisper something joyous
	Unto the sad, the weak;
The heart oft grows aweary, 
	Is ready nigh to break, 
Yet we withhold a blessing, 
	Some soul would gladly take.

Another day we wander, 
	Some sympathy bestow
On some sad, lonely object, 
	Our heart is all aglow;
A happiness in serving,
	To help a lift along—
To carry part the burden
	That they may sing a song. 

The confidence is shaken,
	For some will chide us sore
And wonder why we meddle,
	Bid us do so no more.
’Tis then, the heart gets weary—
	The next weak object found,
We doubt them lest our motive,
	Be crushed unto the ground.

But blessings often brighten 
	When taking flight, we’re told,  
Love is so much the better, 
	And charity, than gold;
We may meet at the Roll call
	Of Jesus, courage take,
While here, help one another,
	He’ll bless them for our sake.

As strife is stirred by hatred, 
	And Love doth cover sin,
Be then friends to the friendless,
	Now is the time, begin;
With earnest feeling, praying
	Speaking that word of cheer,
I know God will repay us,
	While we are drifting here.

	ZINA ELIZABETH WALKER.
1901.


INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL NOTES. 
	The annual executive session of the
International Council of Women was held
at the Hague, July 10, and 11. A report by
cable testifies to a successful and interest-
ing session, presided over by the vice-
president, Lady Aberdeen. At this ex-
ecutive the National Councils of France
and the Argentina formed during the past
year, were received into membership in
the International.
	Since the adjournment of the Interna-
tional Council news has come from Bul-
garia of the successful organization, after
two years of preliminary effort, of a Nation-
al Council of Women of that country, with
an application for affiliation with the
International Council. The application
came too late to be acted upon at The
Hague, but the president of the Inter-
national Council will at once send for the
written ballots of the presidents of National
Councils, that Bulgaria may come in as a
peer with the other nations in this inter-
national band.
	Through the courtesy of the Board of
Women. Managers of the Pan-American
Exposition at Buffalo, the International
Council of Women opened a headquarters
in the Women’s Club House on the
Exposition grounds on August 7, to con-
tinue during the months of August and
September. This bureau of information
will be open daily from 11 to 12 o’clock a.
m. Beginning with August 7, weekly
conferences will be held on successive


Wednesdays. The subject will be “Inter-
nationalism and its Promotion by the
Council Idea.” No programs will be
printed for these conferences, but all visitors
at the Pan-American Exposition interested
in the progressive work of women will be
welcomed, and speakers from different
parts of our own country, from Canada,
and from the different states of South and
Central America, will discuss the subject
above named, each from her own point of
view as modified by her nationality and the
needs of her own country.
	The Council stands always for friendly,
co operative nationalism. It is intended to
make these conferences a means of stimu-
lating increased interest in organization as
a method of promoting good work in South
and Central America. The successful
organization of the National Council of
Women of Argentina, which on June 9th
voted unanimously for affiliation with the
International Council, augurs the success
of the Council method in the states of
South America.


[Column 1]
SUCCESSFUL CELEBRATION.
	The Relief Society of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was or-
ganized on the 17th of March, 1842, by the
Prophet Joseph Smith. Of course this day
is remembered in a fitting manner by the
several branches of the society as each year
rolls around.
	To this rule, we are pleased to say, the
Relief Society of the Hamburg, Germany,
branch of the Church was no exception,
and accordingly had a program and enter-
tainment arranged to take place as a fitting
commemoration of the 59th anniversary of
its organization on the date above given,
and in the year of our Lord 1901. Sunday
falling on 17th of the month, and the regu-
lar meeting day of the members of the
society being Tuesday, it was decided to
hold the entertainment on the 19th instead
of the 17th.
	The Relief Society of Hamburg, like
most societies in the world, and away from
the bulk of the people of the Church, labor
under many unfavorable conditions and
disadvantages. None the less, in spite of
all opposition it has grown, through the
faithful work of its members to be the
largest Relief Society in Germany. The
society stands at present on a strong found-
ation, and has a very bright future before
it.
	On the occasion above mentioned the
guest of honor was our worthy sister, Lucy
B. Young, the president of all the societies
in Germany. It was indeed a great pleas-
ure both to Saints and Elders of the branch
to have Sister Young in their midst and en-
joy her company in a social as well as in
an official way.
	As before stated this concert was held to
celebrate the organization of the Relief
Society. It had also another object no less
worthy, which was to gather in old and
make new friends, that they might all hear
something of the message for which so
many of the Elders are now laboring to
promulgate in this and other fields.
	It was felt by those present that both
objects were admirably attained, particular-
ly the latter, inasmuch as there were a
large number of new friends present, some
of whom are now faithful members who then
visited the meeting for the first time
	The program as rendered was as follows;

[Column 2]
Song, “Tochter-Zions,” choir. Prayer,
the president Sister Eblers. “Song of the Re-
deemed,” choir. Speech, Conference
President C. P. Ferrin. Speech, Sister
Lucy B. Young, translated by Brother R.
P. Haag. Piano solo, Elder Spencer C.
Clawson., Jr. Tenor solo, “If thou didst
love me.” E. P. Ferrin. Violin solo, Frau
Salzuebrod. Speech, Brother R. T. Haag.
Song, “The Beautiful City, choir. Clos- 
ing prayer, First Counselor Marie Krain-
acke.
	The eighth number on the program was
rendered by a friend who is an accomplished
violinist. A hearty encore was tendered the
performer, to which she responded.
	At the close of the program the chairs in
the hall were quickly carried to an adjoin-
ing room and gave place to tables spread
with the dainty repast of “Mormon coffee,”
cakes and sandwiches. Those present
were not long in availing themselves of the
feast, and soon the sandwiches were but a
memory.
	The people did not vanish with the ban-
quet, however, but remained to hear a few
impromptu numbers from the choir and a 
few remarks by Brother R. T. Haag. The
early hour of one a. m. saw the last of the
guests under way for home and a good but
short night’s rest which it is hoped they all
enjoyed.
			CHARITON P. FERRIN,
					Per W. C. M. 
	Berlin, July 19, 1901.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Colby, Miss Muller and Mrs Maril-
la M. Ricker, the latter the well known
attorney of New Hampshire, are spending
the summer in California.
	After the great suffrage meeting in Buf-
falo, September 9 and 10, there will be a
conference September 11 and 12, and on
September 13 Mrs. Sewall and Mrs. Fannie
Humphreys Gaffney are planning a large 
meeting in the interest of the Woman’s 
Council.
	Mrs. Craigie (John Oliver Hobbs) has 
just been elected a member of the Council
of the Authors’ Society. She is the fifth
woman thus honored, the others being the
late Charlotte Yonge, Mrs. Humphrey 
Ward, Flora Shaw and the late Eleanor A.
Ormerod.
	Senorita Ysabel Maria De Los Rios, is
the first woman postmaster in Cuba. She
now holds a commission to handle the 
mail at Gibra. She received a salary of
$1,200 as clerk in the office She displayed
such executive ability that her appointment
to take charge of it meets with the fullest
approval of the department and patrons of
the office.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall opened head-
quarters and presided at a meeting of
women at the Women’s Administration
Building at the Pan-American Exposition
on August 7, and during the rest of the
month will hold weekly conferences there,
the immediate object of which is to explain
the work of the International Council to the
representatives of countries of South and
Central America who visit the Buffalo Ex-
position, and to interest them to form
National Councils, in their respective coun-
tries, and ultimately affiliate with the inter-
national organization.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
c[-]unt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1901.


[Column 1]
	OUR BELOVED PRESIDENT,
		ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

“The loved and lost, why do we call them lost,
Because we miss them from our onward road?
God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crossed
Looked on us all and loving her the most,
Straightway relieved her from life’s weary load.
“They are not lost; they are within the door
That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright and loved ones gone before;
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore;
And God himself their Lord and Judge and King.”

	There are no words to express the sorrow
one feels when a beloved friend passes
away, and yet we all realize we have no
cause to mourn for them but only for the
loss it is to those who remain.
	Sister Zina, whose demise we now re-
cord, was one who will be missed in the
community by all the people, and in the
Relief Society, of the Church, the largest
organization of women there is, and the
one first organized now in its sixtieth
year, she will be missed for her counsel,
her sympathy and all those noble and kind-
ly qualities of heart and soul that help to
bind together, encourage and uplift all
those who have a membership therein.
	Aunt Zina’s presence everywhere was
like a benediction. She possessed in a
large degree those endearing and genial
characteristics that inspire and strengthen
human affection, as well as the exalted
attributes that lift the soul to higher things
than the ordinary affairs of every day life.
Perhaps no woman in the Church had
more intense sympathy with sorrow and
suffering, and she was often significantly
spoken of as “Zina, the Comforter,” an
appellation well merited. Added to this
she had that rare intuition in emergencies
to know just what to do, as well as to
soothe and assuage grief. This presence of
mind and inspirational gift in times of
severe illness or of accident, together with
great faith in administering to the sick,
made her invaluable wherever her help
and assistance could be obtained. She
was sent for, far and near, when there was
affliction, grief or death in the households
of the Saints, and even by those not of the
same faith. No wonder her body was
worn out by fatigue, for she, too, was only
human physically, after all, and yet she
carried the burdens and sorrows of others
uncomplainingly to the very last.
	Sister Young was a highly gifted
woman in many directions, inspirational
and eloquent. As a natural speaker she
could not be surpassed, her words flowed

[Column 2]
from her lips free and easy whenever she
arose to address an audience, and she had
that wonderful faculty of carrying her hear-
ers along with her; they felt the power of
her sublime earnestness and never wearied
of listening.
	Her tenderness of manner, as well as of
heart was always apparent She was full
of love, the most admirable traits of
womanly character and virtues were notic-
ably exemplified throughout her life.
Obedience to authority, especially that of
the priesthood, great humility, faith and
integrity to principle, true unto death;
firm in her convictions as the everlasting
hills, yet abounding in charity, that true
“charity that never faileth”
	It is difficult to tell in what special vir-
tue she most excelled, and we do not all
see alike. Some of her dearest friends say
faith was her strongest characteristic,
others, sympathy, and again others,
charity, and still others humility. One
dear friend speaks of these qualifications
as Aunt Zina’s jewels, Faith, Love and
Charity.
	Volumes might be written of her life and
experiences, but we can only give very little
in an article like this. It was given her to
be greatly beloved by the masses of the
people; and thousands, and tens of thou-
sands, perhaps, have sought her counsel
and been blest in taking her motherly ad-
vice. But she has gone from our sight,
and we shall miss her Madonna face and
motherly advice in our meetings. For
years she has been the one woman whom
we all sought after and delighted to honor,
and it will be hard indeed for some of us
who have been so long and so closely as-
sociated with her to accustom ourselves to
her absence. One by one the veterans of
the Church are being called home. Many
of the men and women associated with
Sister Zina in Kirtland, Missouri, and
Nauvoo, have long since departed, and
now she, too, has gone to join that in-
numerable company on the other side.
	Sister Zina, as she is affectionately called
by thousands of people, has undoubtedly
finished the work assigned her to do upon
this earth, and has certainly made a
glorious record. It has been said of her
over and over again that she was one of the
choice spirits reserved to come in this day
and age of the world, to assist in the estab-
lishment of the Latter-day work. And
this mission she has filled with honor and
credit to herself and entire satisfaction to
all who know her life work. A beautiful
life, complete and well-rounded.

“O, selfish sorrow of selfish hearts!”

	O, we of little faith! who mourn for one
whose tired feet have reached that beau-
teous shore, and joined the “Choir Invis-
ble.” Sister Zina has fought the good
fight, kept the faith, and has received all
the blessings, gifts and powers that entitle
her to an endless life in the celestial king-
dom. All this we know and realize, but,
alas, we are human and our hearts ache for
the love she bestowed so lavishly upon her
friends. We poor wayfarers must still
struggle on and try to believe and follow
her righteous example and say with the
poet:

“We will do likewise, death hath made no breach
	In love and sympathy, in hope and trust,
No outward sign or sound our ears can reach,
But there’s an inward, spiritual speech
	That greets us still, though mortal tongue be
		dust,”

[Column 3]
	President Zina D. H. Young, of whose
life we give a brief sketch, departed this
life at her own home in this city, on
Wednesday morning, 8:55, August
28, 1901, at the ripe age of eighty years,
six months and twenty-eight days.
	It may truthfully be said of her that she
fell asleep peacefully and breathed her last
without a struggle. On June 27 she left
this city, accompanied by her son, Chari-
ton to visit her daughter in Canada, and
while there enjoyed herself very much,
visiting with the members of her immediate
family, children, grandchildren and great-
grandchildren, also beloved brethren and
sisters in that locality. After about two
months pleasantly passed she expressed a
wish to come home and the journey was
planned. She was to come with Brother
and Sister Levi W. Richards, but on the
morning of starting she was taken sudden-
ly ill and her daughter, Sister Zina Y.
Card, felt she, too, must come with her.
	Sister Zina became unconscious about the
time they left Spring Coolie, on the border
of Canada, and remained in that comatose
condition until she passed into the spirit
world. That an escort of loved ones from
behind the veil accompanied her to the
place prepared, we who know her cannot
doubt.
	O, for one glimpse of her beautiful face,
one gentle clasp of her tender, sympathetic
hands, one loving embrace, but that is not
possible until we meet in the great hereafter.
	The funeral services and other reminis-
cences will be published in the next issue
of the EXPONENT.
		BIOGRAPHICAL.
	Zina Diantha Huntington was born Jan-
uary 31, 1821, in Watertown, Jefferson
County, New York. Her parents were
William and Diantha (Baker) Huntington.
The Huntingtons and the Bakers are both
old New England families, so that Sister
Zina was, like many other early members
of the Church, purely New England origin.
Her father was a patriot and fought in the
war of 1812, and her grandfather, William
Huntington was a Revolutionary soldier,
and Samuel Huntington, one of the signers
of the Declaration of Independence, was his
uncle. The genealogical record reads
“Simon Huntington, Puritan immigrant,
sailed for America in 1633. He died at
sea, but left three sons and his widow Mar-
garet.”
	The church records of Roxbury, Mass.,
contain the earliest records of the Hunting-
ton name known in New England, and is
in the handwriting of the Rev. John Elliot
himself, the pastor of that ancient church.
“Margaret Huntington (widow) came in
1833, her husband died by the way of small
pox; she brought children with her.” Wm.
Huntington, grandfather of Aunt Zina,
married Presendia Lathrop, and the Lath-
rop’s, too, were of the old New England
families.
	The Huntington’s embraced the Gospel
in Watertown, New York, and their
daughter, Zina, was baptized by Patriarch
Hyrum Smith, August 14, 1835, and soon
after the family moved to Kirtland. The
same year Sister Zina received the gift of
tongues; and it was also in Kirtland she
received the gift of interpretation, and no
woman in all Israel ever had that gift more
perfect, as thousands can testify. Her
spiritual faculties were very highly devel-


[Column 1]
oped even in that early time, and she heard,
on one occasion, in the Kirtland Temple, a
whole invisible choir of angels singing, till
the house was filled with numberless voices.
She was also a member of the Kirtland
Temple choir, very few of the members are
now living. She was also present on the
memorable Pentecost when the spirit of
God filled the house like a mighty, rushing
wind.
	The Huntingtons were among the Saints
who went up to Missouri and suffered in
those terrible persecutions of the people;
her mother died during that eventful period
from fatigue and privation, and only two
of the family were able to follow her re-
mains to its last resting place. Sister Zina
came with her father and other members of
the family when driven from Missouri,
across to Nauvoo, then called Commerce.
They were all sick, and she has often
spoken in terms of endearment of the kind-
ness of Sister Emma Smith, wife of the
Prophet Joseph, who ministered to their
wants during this trying time of sickness
and trouble.
	In Nauvoo Sister Zina received and
obeyed the principle of plural marriage,
and after the martyrdom of the Prophet,
when the Nauvoo Temple was finished for
ordinances, she was united in marriage for
time to Brigham Young, and with the
Saints left Nauvoo in the month of Febru-
ary, crossing the Mississippi river on the ice.
and enduring untold hardships on account
of her delicate health and the inclemency of
the weather. Arriving at Mt. Pisgah, a
resting place for the exiles, Father Hunt-
ington was called to preside, and his daugh-
ter, Zina, remained with him temporarily.
Sickness was prevalent, many of the Saints
died and were buried under the most trying
circumstances. Father Huntington was
one of that number, and after that was
over, and Sister Zina had seen her father laid
away, she came on to Winter Quarters
and resided there until the body of the
Saints who had sojourned in the Pottawat-
tamie country until President Brigham
Young, after his return with the Pioneers,
started with his family in the spring of
1848 for the Salt Lake valley.
	Here our beloved Sister Zina passed her
time in works of love though living
in tents and wagons until log houses were
built, and in one of these, her daughter,
Zina, was born, April 3, 1850.
	Sister Zina lived many years in the
famous Lion House, and was, in fact, and
in very deed, a Mother in the family
especially in all times of sickness, whether
of children or grown people. She has ever
been one to lean upon, a pillar of strength
to others, beside her own. Although her
own immediate family was not very large
only three children, to her was given the
care of four of President Young’s children
whose mother died, and for these her love
went out as to her very own, and she
trained them up in the same tender affec-
tion and solicitude as her very own, and as
a, mother they hold her in the highest rev-
erence and cherish for her the most sublime
and dutiful love and feeling.
	To tell of a tithe of what this noble hero-
ine has done would more than fill these
pages, but we must add a word or two con-
cerning her public labors.
	She studied obstetrics and nursing under
Dr. Willard Richards and practised for
many years successfully. When the Re-
lief Society was temporarily organized after
her arriyal in Salt Lake she became one of

[Column 2]
its first officers and a devoted worker. When
the silk industry was introduced she was
among the first to attempt experimental
sericulture, and has done more to promote
that industry in Utah and among this peo-
ple than any other person. It has been a
subject in which she never lost interest.
	When the Relief Society was permanent-
ly reorganized throughout the various
wards, President Young called Sister Eliza R.
Snow and Sister Zina D. H. Young to look
after the organization. They traveled to-
gether in this interest throughout the settle-
ments wherever wards were organized, and
when the Retrenchment Associations were
inaugurated and Sister M. Isabella Horne
was called to preside she chose as her first
counselors Sister Eliza R. Snow and Sister
Zina D. H. Young. Later when the
young women were organized Sister Eliza
and Sister Zina were called by President
Young to lead out again in that work.
	Sister Zina has also been an efficient Sun-
day School teacher for forty years and more
until her numerous duties in other direc-
tions required all her strength. In the or-
ganization of the Primary Associations she
manifested the same disinterested zeal and
earnestness that has characterized her
whole life, and in every movement for the
betterment of the human race.
	Sister Zina’s travels have extended be-
yond the Stakes of Zion. During the
summer of 1879 she visited the Sand-
wich Islands, partly for her health.
She was accompanied by Miss Susa Young,
and had the opportunity of meeting several
celebrated people and imparting reliable
information concerning our principles and
our people, and she also was a blessing to
the Hawaiian sisters and they were proud to
honor her and show her reverence. In
1881 she visited relatives in New York and
Vermont, her son, then Lieutenant now
Colonel Willard Young, accompanying her.
During her absence she attended the
Woman’s Congress in Buffalo, Woman’s
Suffrage Convention in New York City and
organized a Relief Society in Cohoes
Albany Co., N. Y. She had the privilege of
speaking at many public gatherings and
was made the guest of honor on several oc-
casions. In 1882, accompanied by the
writer, she represented Utah at the Na-
tional Suffrage Convention held in
Omaha. At the time of the World’s Colum-
bian Exposition in Chicago, 1893, Sister
Young attended the great Congresses of
women in that city, and presided at a De-
partment meeting of her own Society, and
made a most favorable impression, upon
many of the leading women, by her gentle,
winning manner, notably Isabella Beecher
Hooker, May Wright Sewall and Elizabeth
Lisle Saxon.
	At the Congress of Charities and Phil-
anthropies she was shown very marked at-
tention, and she was a conspicuous figure
at the National Council on the Sabbath
day, sitting among the woman ministers on
the public platform.
	After some weeks spent in Chicago visit-
ing the various buildings and attending
Congresses, Sister Young, accompanied by
her brother, Oliver Huntington, again
visited her birthplace and its environs, in
the State of New York, and collected some
further genealogical material.
	It would scarcely be possible to live a
more active and busy life than Sister Zina’s
has been and each year has added wisdom
and grace to her refined character and man-
ner. Words are inadequate to express her

[Column 3]
nobility and her true womanliness. She
has gone from our midst, we cannot see
her angelic face smiling upon us, nor hear
her sweet voice in blessing or prayer, nor
can she come to us in sickness as she was
wont to do. But we know she is happy,
happy beyond expression. And we who
remain must bear our loss with patience
and resignation.

	The golden dawn of the Day of God
		Shall smite on the sealed eyes,
	The trumpets sound shall thunder around,
		The dreamers shall wake and rise.

	When the night is over, the sleep is slep
		They are called from the shadowy pla
	The Pilgrims stand in the glorious land
		And gaze on the Master’s face.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LITTLE MARIAN’S BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	Children’s parties are very much the
fashion nowadays, in fact the little folks
have a great deal of amusement and play-
time since Kindergartens have come to be
so popular in this country.
	Marian’s party was a great success, out
on a beautiful lawn, under the shade trees,
where about thirty little girls from three
years to five, all in dainty summer gowns,
were blowing bubbles and blowing horns,
swinging in hammocks, and so forth, laugh-
ing, talking and entertaining each other,
while the older sisters helped, with the
playing of games, and mammas gazed at
them through the open windows and door-
ways.
	By and by Marian’s papa came with a
kodak and took a few snap shots as they
were grouped carelessly around. At five
o’clock they were seated at table and served
with goodies that children delight in, and
it was interesting to watch them and see
how social and free from restraint they
were, and what interest they took in each
other, and it was indeed a very charming
picture. Then there were souvenir cards,
hand-painted, with ribbons attached on a
tray, with blank side up, from which each
little girl drew one with the ribbon, a very
unique way of distributing the cards.
	But after all the most fun seemed to be
in blowing bubbles.

“By sports like these are all their cares beguiled
	The sports of children satisify the child.”

	Marian was three years old on the day of
her party, Friday, August 2, 1901, but she
will be sure to remember it.
	Those invited were Helen and Dorothy
Spencer, Helen. Talbot, Hattie Parker-
Mary and Ruth Taylor, Dorothy Palmer,
Martha and Florence Wells, Katharine
Cannon, Emily Grant, Hortense Pratt,
Edith and Louise Wells, Alma Cannon,
Helen Knowlton, Louise and Marian Eller-
beck, Marie Dougall, Emily Young,
Florence Ware, Ruth Spence, May Cart-
wright, Geneva Wells, Margaret and
Katharine Marshall, Phillis and Fannie
Lynch, Marian Whitney, Libbie and Ruth
Wells, Louisa and Miriam Wells, Mary
Johnson, Lucile Buchholz, Florence and
Irene McDonald and Helen Godbe.
	The older ones, who assisted were Alice
and Mary Wells, Grace Grant, Emmeline
Cannon, Josephine Cannon, Ethel Liddle,
Chloe Burns, May Bigelow; Mesdames Etta
Ellerbeck. Cynthia Spence, Susie Wells,
Josephine Pratt, Alley Marshall, Blanche Par-
ker Edith Knowlton; also Annie and AdaCan-
non, Alta Godbe, Isabel Buchholz, and E. B.
Wells; the host and hostess of the party,
Mr. and Mrs. S. W. Sears, at whose home


it was given and the little “guest of honor,”
Marian Buchholz.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WEDDING RECEPTION.

	On Wednesday, August 15, 1901, Miss
Bardella Shipp and Mr. Theodore Edward
Curtis were married in the Salt Lake Tem-
ple, the marriage ceremony being per-
formed by Bishop John R. Winder. In
the evening a delightful reception was
given at the home of the bride, on Main
Street. The rooms were tastefully decor-
ated and music and song, interspersed with
comic recitations, added to the enjoyment
of the interesting occasion.
	The bride was most becomingly gowned
in white silk, with pearl and lace trim-
mings, and carried a bouquet of long stem-
med white roses, half-blown, a white rose
or two fastened in her dark tresses instead
of the regulation orange blossoms, was
very pretty and piquant, and we need not
add, as the fact is well known; brides are
always beautiful and exceedingly interest-
ing.
	Dainty refreshments were served to the
guests by beautiful young girls of sixteen
and seventeen in pretty costumes, of
which pink seemed the prevailing color.
	Main Street was ablaze, as it were, with
the red lights which shone through the
open windows of the rooms, making the
wedding festivities still more brilliant.
	Our attention was not called to the fact
but we noticed in one of the rooms through
which we passed, a large number of what
appeared to be wedding presents; and no
doubt they were, for the bride is a prime
favorite among her acquaintances.
	We add our congratulations to those of
the many relatives and friends, wishing
Mr. and Mrs. Curtis all the joy and happi-
ness mortals can attain to, and an experi-
ence that will prepare them for eternal hap-
piness hereafter.


A DELIGHTFUL EVENING. 
On Friday evening, August 23, a unique
entertainment was given in ‘‘The Barna-
cle,” Kendall Square, by a few young
people for a very worthy purpose. We
approve of our children and young folks
cultivating dramatic talent in home circles
and also in being generous to those who
have spent means and ability in promoting
public interests, and have thus suffered
pecuniary loss, or have in any way been
unfortunate.  
The program of the evening was first,
Invocation by Elder David McKenzie, fol-
lowed by musical selection on piano and
violin, by Mr. and Mrs. Chester Ames.
“The Bear Story,” Kittie Bowring.
‘‘Romance,” Edna S. Ames. “The Blind
Girl by Castle-Quill,” Blanche Thomas.
"Footsteps in the Sand,” Alice McLaugh-
lan Music Recitation,“The Time to Love,” 
Elen Wallace Next a bit of nonsense,
“When the Cats Away,” Alice Mc
Laughlin, (the cat) May Carter, Blanche
Thomas and Edna Carter, (the mice) Miss
Meek, Hattie Carter, “The Latest Arriv-
al." Kate Thomas, “Sooty,” (for sport)
Rose Thomas, Sniffles (Sooty’s Comp’ny)
Elbert J. Thomas.
After the play friends gathered in the
parlor of the Hon. and Mrs. R. K. Thom-
as and the "Cat was let out of the Bag,”
by Mrs. Thomas, who announced in a neat


little speech the object of the play and the
invitations to those assembled, which was
a ‘‘Tribute of Respect and Friendship to
Elder H. W. Naisbitt, recently returned
from a mission to England.’’
	Brother Naisbitt is w[-]ll and favorably
known as a journalist, author and poet,
and during a long life has written much
that will be valuable to the community
and particularly to the Church, if these
writings can be published in book form for
circulation it will be an acquisition to home
literature of which the people of the future
as well as those of today may be proud.
	Mrs. Thomas, Mr. H. C. Wallace and
Mrs. R. E. Little set forth these facts very
clearly in speaking to the guests, and one
and all with hearty accord were ready to
respond to the sentiments beautifully ex-
pressed by those who addressed them.
	Elder Naisbitt responded briefly but
feelingly to the compliment paid him, and
the EXPONENT certainly desires to pay a
fitting tribute to the Guest of Honor of
that memorable evening’s entertainment.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 
President Jane S. Richards accompan-
ied by Sister Ruthinda E. Moench,
attended the Relief Society conference of
Nebo Stake held at Payson, August 15,
and though the weather was unfavorable,
the meetings were fairly well attended and
a good spirit prevailed.
President Jane S. Richards, accompan-
ied by Sister Emily S. Richards, attended
the Relief Society conference at Pleasant
Grove on July 26, at which time Mrs.
Rebecca Standring was elected president
of the Relief Society of the Alpine Stake
of Zion, the former president having re-
signed her position on account of ill
health. 
Sisters Lydia D. Alder and Harriet Ann
Badger went to Deseret to attend the Re-
lief Society conference of Millard Stake on
Friday, August 23. There was a good at-
tendance, Stake president, Elizabeth F.
Yates, from Scipio, presiding. The visit-
ing sisters enjoyed the trip and the meet-
ings very much; an excellent spirit was
manifest in the conference.
President M. I. Horne and Sister Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson attended the Bear Lake
Stake Relief Society conferences and other
meetings in that locality during the month
of July and the first part of August. The
conferences were held, one in Montpelier
and one in Lake Town, and Sister Horne,
though now eighty-two years of age,
traveled in visiting the Stake, over one
hundred miles by team. She returned in
good health and spirits.
The visit of Kentucky editors with their
friends, including wives, sisters, daugh-
ters, cousins and aunts, was a very pleas-
ant affair. The genial and courteous
Southern woman is always greatly appre-
ciated in the West, and really one cannot
help acknowledging there is something
very soothing in amiability, especially to
those whose cares and responsibilities are
too much for their nerves. Everything
that the Utah press could do to add to the
enjoyment of the "thoroughbred” Ken-
tuckians was arranged for, a reception at
the Kenyon, recital at the Tabernacle, trip
to Saltair, were among the enjoyable fea-


tures of their visit here, and so far as
known these press people went away with
favorable impressions of the Mecca of the
West.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON. 
(Concluded.)

	I never forget the night before he died. I 
went into h[-]s room before I retired to wish
him good night. His very look pierced my 
heart, and before I had time to speak he 
said, "O, my girl, you will meet me on 
the other side, wont you?" I answered
"I guess so," and turned and left the room 
quietly. I never bade him good night 
again. The next day he was under the in-
fluence of drugs all day, for the pain was 
too great for him and he passed away. 
	I sometimes think that if I had my life 
to live over again, I would try to overcome 
myself even more than I did, but I do not 
know. I am very thankful, however, that 
he did come home, through the blessing of
the Lord, to lay his body down with his 
family who preceded him. 
	When we went to have our endowments 
in 1856, Brother Kimball was talking to 
those who were going through, and he 
spoke at length on confidence. He en-
treated the brethren and sisters, husbands
and wives never to allow themselves to 
lose confidence in each other. He said, 
"I will promise you if you do, it will 
never be restored in this world, and I am 
afraid the eternity cannot restore it."
	It is that lack of confidence that has
caused me all the sorrow that I have passed
through. It is too late for me to try to 
right the wrong, but I do pray that sad ex-
perience may do some good to my poster-
ity o[-] any who chance to read these few
lines, for they are true. I trust that I 
have passed through enough sorrow to 
atone for all my stubbornness. I know 
that my Heavenly Father is merciful to 
His children and I am willing to abide the 
consequences, for He has always been 
mindful of me and kept me from many 
snares that I might otherwise have fallen 
into. He has never left me without a 
testimony of the truthfulness of the Gos-
pel, and also a knowledge that the princi-
ple of plural marriage is true, and that it is 
exalting in its nature to all those who will
obey it and walk in the way the Lord has 
marked out. With all I have passed
through I have never regretted that I re-
ceived it in my young days. I know that 
if we are true and faithful that principle 
will lead us on to exaltation and give us 
eternal lives in the kingdom of God. It is 
worth all the sacrifice any of us can make
in this life. I have often proved the truth
of those beautiful lines composed by John
Wesley:
"When through fiery trials thy pathway shall 
	lie,
My grace all sufficient shall be thy supply, 
The flames shall not hurt thee, I only design.
Thy dross to consume and thy gold to refine. 

Even down to old age all my people shall prove, 
My sovereign, eternal, unchangable love;
And then when gray hairs shall their temples
	adorn,
Like lambs they shall still in my bosom be borne.

The soul that on Jesus has leaned for repose, 
He will not, He cannot desert to his foes,
That soul, though all hell shall endeavor to shake, 
He'll never, no never, no never forsake." 

	I have learned in my experience to trust
in the Lord, and have always found Him


to be my friend. David says they that
trust in the Lord shall never be confounded.
I have been a member of this Church for
fifty-seven years, and have seen the rise
and fall of many promising men and
women. And when trouble came upon
leaders of the Church and persecution
spread among the Saints and many whom
we might think were strong in the faith
would begin to discover that something
was wrong with the leaders of the Church,
and they, like one of old, would put out the
hand to steady the ark and would think
that they knew more about matters than
the men who were inspired of the Lord to
lead the people. They would find fault
and sit in judgment over the faults of some
of their best friends, until they would lose
the spirit of the Lord and go into darkness,
and many to their death with no light, no
hope of eternal life, because they loved a
lie better than they did the truth. There
is no real happiness in this life only by
doing our duty and living according to the
revealed word of the Lord We need not
be deceived by any false teaching if we do
our duty, attend to our prayers and shun
evil. God and Satan will never be friends.
If we want our Heavenly Father to bless
us we must keep His commandments. Oh,
how pleased He would be if we lived so as to
say with him of old. “I know that my
Redeemer liveth.” But that is our privil-
ege, the privilege of every one who enters
the waters of baptism; for when they do
that they take upon themselves a great re-
sponsibility. There is a great deal im-
plied in saying we are members of the
Church and kingdom of God. We should
live so that we would be worthy of the
title of Saint, and not have it said of us,
that we are Saints only in name.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM. 
						3		
SISTER C. C. VAN ORDEN.

	Died, in Lewiston, Utah, at the home of her
daughter, Sister C. C. Van Orden, aged 74 years
and 7 months, after a severe and lingering illness
caused by cancer. She was born in Birmingham,
England, in 1826. Embraced the Gospel in the
land of her birth in 1853, and emigrated to Utah
in 1854, sailing on the ship, Windemere.
	She was called to the office of secretary during
the first year of the organization of the Richmond
branch of the Relief Society, in the year 1864,
acting from that time until 1889, and during nine
years of that time as one of the counselors, since
that time as ward teacher for the same until, with-
in four years of her demise.
	She was beloved by her associates for her integ-
rity, her love of right and her staunch faith in the
Gospel of Christ. She was a friend to the poor
and a wise counselor in her home; and we recog-
nize in the death of our beloved sister the loss of a
faithful and energetic worker, a devoted and
faithful mother to her family, having a determin-
ation to educate them in adverse circumstances.
And we highly esteem her faithful and untiring
labors and devotion to the interests of Zion,
worthy of imitation by her children and friends.
	Resolved, that we sympathize with the bereaved
children in the loss of a loving mother, and with
her associates in the loss of a sister in Christ.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be recorded
on the Relief Society book, and that they be pub-
lished in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						HANNAH T. BROWER.


[column 1]
			R. S. REPORT.
		ST. JOHN’S STAKE.

	Conference of the Relief Society of the
St. Johns Stake of Zion was held in the
Academy Building at St. Johns, Arizona,
March 8, 1901, President E. S. L. Udall
presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises and

[column 2]
the work of calling the officers’ roll, read-
ing minutes and Stake reports and presenta-
tion of officers was attended to, the follow-
ing brethren and sisters occupied the time:
	Sister Margaret Jarvis reported the soci-
ety of the St. John’s ward as in fairly good
condition.
	Sister Margaret E Patterson spoke on
the subject of “teaching our children to do
right.’’
	Sister Lucinda Richey compared our con-
dition here with that of the early days in
Utah, showing how much more favorable
our financial condition is.
	Sister Anna L. Anderson gave a nice
selection on the organ.
	Sister Rachel Berry drew a comparison
in regard to the exertions we make in intel-
lectual and financial pursuits, stating that
“if we were to make as great efforts to gain
information as we do to obtain the good
things of this earth, we would make much
greater progress than we now do.’’
	The song entitled “Not a Sparrow
Falleth," was sung by Sisters Anna Mal-
lory and Sarah Nicoll.
	President E. S. L. Udall read a letter
from the General Board in regard to the
proposed erection of a joint building
for association purposes. She said: “We
have sent a copy of the letter to each soci-
ety in the Stake, with an accompanying
letter from the Stake Board asking them
to comply with the request. If we attend
to our duties properly we have more com-
fort and cheer than when we are neglegent,
and the Lord blesses us more abundantly.
The nature of our temporal labors has a
tendency to draw our minds from spiritual
things. If we do not set good examples in
these matters, we cannot expect our chil-
dren to take an interest in them. We
should follow this motto, “Be yourselves
what you would have your children be-
come.’’
	Sister Mary E. B. Farr, by request, read
a poem from the EXPONENT, entitled,
“Words that Bless,” then spoke of the in-
spiration in good poetry, that touches the
finest chord in our hearts. Also said she
had noticed a spirit in many to make more
rapid progress and live better lives, since
the dawn of the new century.
	Elder E. N. Freeman spoke of the tend-
ency that temporal labors have in drawing
our minds from the spiritual things of life.
Every thought that is evil tends to a down-
ward course, and from the abundance of the
heart the mouth speaketh. There is a
great work for us fathers and mothers to
do.
	Elder John I. Lesueur said: “I believe
the Relief Society is one of the best organ-
izations we have in the Church. When
there is sickness or distress of any kind,
they are always on hand to assist. I feel
to support this organization, not only by
my faith, and prayers, but with means
when necessary.
	President David K. Udall spoke of the
care that should be exercised in setting
proper examples before our children; that
we educate them to be pure in thought and
action. Said to the mothers, “Keep your
boys off the streets and at home as much as
possible. Do not let them go out with
crowds of men and boys when not neces-
sary.
	The choir sang, “The God that others
worship is not the God for me.” Benedic-
tion by Patriarch H. J. Platt.

[column 3]
		PANGUITCH STAKE.

	The Panguitch Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held in Escalante Tabernacle,
June 14, 1901, President Elizabeth DeLong,
presiding.
	There were present of the presiding
priesthood of the Stake, the Stake presi-
dent of the Relief Society and one of her
counselors, also many brethren and sisters
from the different wards.
	Conference opened by singing. Prayer
by President David Cameron. Singing.
Minutes of previous meeting read. Roll
called, four wards out of ten being well 
represented.
	President Elizabeth DeLong spoke at
great length about the Word of Wisdom,
caring for children, the erection of the
Woman’s Building in Salt Lake City and
the duty of teachers.
	Sister Nancy Riddle reported Escalante
ward.
	President Elizabeth DeLong reported
Panguitch; Sister Chaffin, Circleville ward;
Counselor Adelia Crosby spoke on the
privileges of the Relief Society and also the
Peace Congress and read a piece from the
EXPONENT. President Cameron said it
was necessary for the mothers to have full
knowledge of the Gospel so they could
teach their children the principles of the
Gospel.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Counselor James
Houston.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m. Sing-
ing. Prayer by Counselor M. M. Steele.
Singing. President Elizabeth DeLong
stated that Sister Adelia Crosby, on account
of her many duties, wished to resign her
position as Stake secretary. her resigna-
tion was accepted.
	Margaret Haycock was chosen in her 
place and was elected by unanimous vote.
	A circular letter from the General Board
was then read by Counselor Adelia Crosby.
	Counselor M. M. Steele spoke of the
freedom and liberty of the women of our
society compared with the women of the
world. Singing by the choir. Meeting
continued by presenting for vote the
General and Stake officers, all of whom
were sustained.
	Counselor Adelia Crosby spoke urging
the mothers to pray for their children that 
they may not be led astray.
	Brother Twitchel was pleased to meet
with the sisters. Spoke a short time on
prayer. Choir sang.
	Sister Shirts felt like doing all she could
to help the society.
	Sister Twitchel was pleased to have the
privilege of meeting with the people, bore
a truthful testimony. 
	President DeLong thanked the choir,
also gave a little good advice to mothers.
	Sister Riddle thanked the sisters for their
visit.
	Minutes read and approved. Singing.
Benediction by Louis Duel.
			MARGARET HAYCOCK, Sec.

			WAYNE STAKE.

	Relief Society conference was held at
Lyman, June 11, 1901, President Jane S.
Coleman presiding. Singing. Prayer by
Patriarch E. H. Blackburn. Singing,
“Come, let us anew." Minutes of the pre-
vious conference read and accepted.
	President Coleman prayed that we might
be fed with the bread of life. She felt that


[Column 1]
union and good feeling existed throughout
the Stake, as far as she knew. We should
always keep in view the teachings of the
Prophet Joseph Smith to the sisters at the
organization of the Relief Society. Read
the Greeting from the General Board, and
instructed the secretaries in regard to their
records.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe was pleased
to meet with the sisters at conference, felt
weak in her position, had to depend con-
stantly upon the Lord. We should live
near to our Heavenly Father and teach our
children the gift of faith. The Lord will
assist us to do our duties. We can be use-
ful in many ways if we make good use of
our time. We should speak well of each
other, such as we give we shall receive.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn was pleased for
the opportunity of meeting at Relief Society
conference. We should enjoy the spirit of
the Gospel, and not murmur. Was
pleased with the Greeting from our leading
sisters, they were noble women. She
could see the growth of the Relief Society,
had lived in the days of the Prophet. We
have everything to encourage us. If we
continue faithful we will gain our reward.
	Freemont Relief Society was reported by
the president, Louisa J. Taylor, who said
the society was prospering.
	Lyman society was reported by President
Helen A. Maxfield in good running order.
Sister Lucinda Brown was pleased to speak,
felt we are truly a blessed people, could see
so many prophesies being fulfilled. The
time is close at hand when the Savior will
make his appearance, let us be diligent in
the discharge of our duties.
	Thurber Relief Society was reported by
President Sarah G. Meeks, who said they
were doing well and improving in good
works.
	Sister Sarah A. Robison was pleased to
meet with the sisters and brethren. She
had attended the Mutual Improvement con-
ference, and enjoyed a very instructive
time. Spoke upon prayer, said we should
appreciate the labors of the aged brethren
and sisters. We should prepare ourselves
to become better wives and mothers.
	Sister Leah Blackburn spoke upon rais-
ing families and being good mothers, do-
ing our duty in this calling and the bless-
ing of the Lord would be upon us. “Let us
try to realize our true calling and may the
Lord bless us and prosper Zion.”
	The choir sang “The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning.” Benediction by Elder
E. H. Maxfield.
	Afternoon session. After opening ex-
ercises, Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe read
the second Greeting from the General
Board, then talked on the subject of the
Woman’s Building, on the necessity of tak-
ing an active part to help build it. Spoke
on marriage and raising families.
	Teasdale Relief Society was reported by
counselor L. C. Ostberg in good condition.
	Loa Relief Society was represented by
Counselor Sarah Rust as doing well.
	Sister Juliette Blackburn said we should
be thankful for the privileges we enjoy.

[Column 2]
Our parents have suffered much to estab-
lish us in the valleys of the mountains.
We should be what we seem to be, that
our influence may be for good.
	Patriarch Blackburn spoke upon chastity,
living pure lives. Said we do not all
understand alike. This life is all the
mortality we will have. If we are truly con-
verted we will live the laws of God. Felt
there was much seeming neglect. Jesus
said work while it is time, today. There
is no excellence without labor. Spoke up-
on the subject of marriage and encouraged
mothers to do their duty by their children.
Said the law of chastity should be better
kept in Zion. Bade the Relief Society God
speed, it is one of the helps of Zion.
“Sisters, do your duty, for you will be
brought to judgment. Your influence is
great, and where much is given much is
required. Arise in the name of the Lord
and teach chastity.”
	Sister Sarah A. Morrell bore her testi-
mony and exhorted all to have willing
hearts to respond to the requirements of the
Gospel.
	Sister Sarah A. Robison spoke upon
rearing children. Many young women did
not wish the trouble of families. Said we
should teach our daughters that it is
a woman’s mission in the marriage relation
to become a mother, and to keep in view the
great command of the Creator to multiply
and replenish the earth.
	President Coleman spoke on sericulture.
They are still making advance in this re-
spect, planting mulberry trees and raising
cocoons this season. Was very pleased
with the instructions received, and trust
we will go to our homes and practice what
we have been taught. Felt grateful to our
Heavenly Father for the flow of the Holy
Spirit that has been present with us at our
conference. Let us live so that it may be
our constant companion to lead us in the
path of life.
	Singing. Benediction by Elder B. Turner.
ANNA O. COLEMAN, Sec.

	I will say that in Wayne Stake Sister
Mary A. White, of Giles, raised 16,300
cocoons, weight 52 lbs. N. J. Neilson, of
Giles, has planted an acre of mulberry
trees. We have also three acres planted at
Torrey and three fourths of an acre at
Caineville. It has taken effort to accom-
plish what we have done in this direction.
The Lord has blessed our labors, and we
expect to be successful in raising silk in the
future.
JANE S. COLEMAN, Pres.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as much as possible for you money. TRY US.

[column 2]
Obstetrics and Nursing.
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will commence
her next class in Obstetrics and
Nursing on Monday, Oct. 14.
For further information communicate with
Dr. Roberts, 75 North State Street.
Telephone 748 D.


Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank n Utah.

	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.

	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW

	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.

WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
Oregon Short Line
Railroad

FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . , . .


Se that your tickets read via the
“SHORT LINE”
And Get the bes


CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
S. W. Eccles,		D. E.Burley,
Gen Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T. A


Mrs. Martha Boies, mother of United
States Commissioner John Simons, and the
first woman juror and one of the first women
voters in Wyoming, was married to John
Atkinson, of Laramie, Wyo., July 23. The
bride is sixty years old and the bridegroom
sixty-five. Mrs. Boies was among the first
to grasp President McKinley’s hand when
he passed through Laramie two months
ago.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

