Vol. 30	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1902 								No. 9


CONTENTS.

Salt Lake Stake......J. S. Woolley 
 
In Memoriam......

Greetings to Relief Society......B. W. Smith 

Famous Old Liberty Bell......

Notes and News......

“Rhymelets in Many Moods”......Lydia D. Alder 

A Tribute of Love......Lydia D. Alder 

R. S. Reports......

Ladies' Semi-Monthly Meeting......

Utah Woman's Press Club......L. D. Alder 


EDITORIAL—Official Announcement......

	The New Year, 1902......

	Editorial Notes......


POETRY—The First Coming......Ruth M. Fox 

	New Year Tributes......L. L. G. Richards 

	One Woman's Prayer......Ixion


[Column 1]
THE FIRST COMING.

I.

The shadows of evenings gather,
	The lamps are burning low,
The fire crackles cheerily,
	Each ember seems to glow
With an unusual brightness;
	Without the feath'ry snow
Is falling steadily, swiftly,
	As if to clothe the earth
In her beaut'ous ermine mantle
	To celebrate His birth.

In the rocking chair sits grandma
	With baby on her knee
The boys and girls around her
	Are chatting joyously:
For tomorrow, O, tomorrow !
	What will it bring to them ?
And what will it bring to grandma ?
	How long to wait;—but then
Grandma may tell a story;
	"O, do," the children cried,
"Perhaps Santa Claus will listen
	To tales of Christmastide,"
So they drew their chairs around her,
	And she told in accents slow,
While the baby slumbered sweetly,
	This tale of long ago:

 II.

"I will tell you a real true story,
	The story that never grows old,
But like love on the ear softly whispered,
	'Tis sweeter the oftener told.

"Come with me away o'er the ocean
	To the land of the olive and palm;
Now let us sit under the fig tree,
	And rest in the twilight's deep calm.

"Long, long years ago it all happened;
	In a village of Galilee,
Yonder, where the landscape is rocky,
	Not far from the cool inland sea.

"Living there was a beautiful maiden
	Young, graceful, exquisitely fair,
With eyes soft and tender as moonbeams;
	A mantle of sunshine her hair.

"But lovelier far was her goodness,
	Rare virtue her costliest gem;
Truth and chastity dwelt in her bosom,
	Wisdom wrought her a diadem."

"'O, a princess !' they cried, "Yes, truly,
	She was of the brave royal line;
Yet her garb was so plain and simple,
	Her station one could not divine.

"One day she sat pensively gazing
	Far over the waters so blue;
Day-dreaming, perchance, of her future,
	As young maidens are wont to do.

"And perhaps her thoughts wandered back-
		ward,
	To the day when David held sway;
When close by her side stood a stranger,
	With countenance bright as the day.

[Column 2]
" 'Hail thou that art so highly favored,
	Blessed among women art thou,'
Startled, for a moment bewildered,
	A cloud overshadowed her brow.

"So tenderly spake the grave stranger,
	'Fear not, gentle Mary,' said he,
'Through thee shall the world find a Savior,
	His message I bring unto thee.'

"Then Mary perceived 'twas an angel;
	Her heart beat with rapture sublime,
And burst forth in songs of thanksgiving
	To God for His promise divine:

III.

"'Behold the handmaid of the Lord,
Be it according to His will;
My soul doth magnify His name,
My spirit hath rejoiced in Him,
The Holy One of Israel,
He hath regarded my low estate,
All generations shall call me blessed;
He that is mighty hath done great things,
Hosanna, hosanna to my King !
His mercy is on them that fear Him
From generation to generation;
He hath showed forth strength with His
	arm,
He hath subdued the haughty and proud,
The mighty he hath scattered afar,
And exalted them of low degree.
He hath filled the hungry with good things.
The rich He hath sent empty away;
He hath remembered our fathers,
Even as he spake unto Abraham
And to His seed forever.'

IV.

"In the city of David, all day long
The thoroughfares were thronged with
	visitors;
For the great Augustus had decreed
That every citizen should repair
Unto his own city to be numbered,
And render each his tax to Cæsar.
Reluctantly the sun withdrew its rays.
And the filmy covering of night
O'er-spread the town.  Inhabitants and
	guests
Were wraped in peaceful slumber, save a
	few
Malcontents, who, loitering in the mart,
Were discussing Cæsar and his doings.
When, lo, two belated travelers
Dusty and weary with their journey,
Craved admittance to the crowded inn;
But the stable alone afforded shelter
And there the lovely virgin's couch was
	made,
And there God's promise was fulfilled.

V.

"Out of the din of the city,
	Under the starlit sky,
Shepherd their flocks were keeping,
	The midnight hour was nigh.

"When behold, a radiant splendor
	Illumined all around.
Amazement filled their bosoms
	And hushed was ev'ry sound.

"Then out of the rays of glory
	An angel's voice was heard:
'Fear not, I bring glad tidings
	According to his word.

" 'Rejoice and shout for gladness,
	For unto you this day,
The Christ is born in Bethlehem,
	Up, up and haste away.

" 'And sound the joyful tidings---
	He's left His Father's throne,
To bring the world redemption,
	Your King, your Lord has come.'

"Then the air was filled with music,
	And hark ! the heav'nly throng
Was joining with the angel
	In this triumphant song:

[Column  3]
" 'Glory to God in the highest,
	Let the earth His praises ring.
This day He brings salvation,
	Hosanna to our King.

" 'Halleluiah, halleluiah,
	Peace and good will to man;
Hosanna, shout hosanna,
	To our God and the Lamb.'

"Softer and sweeter the music,
	Fainter, fainter it grows;
The shepherds gazed and wondered,
	Until the vision closed.

"Then each man turned to his neighbor,
	'Wist ye what the angel said ?
Come, let's away to Bethlehem,
	And find the hallowed bed.'

VI.

"A singular part of my story
	Remaineth yet to be told;
Where the glorious sun first riseth,
	Tinging hills and vales of gold;
There were men renowned for wisdom,
	Well versed in scriptural lore,
Who were observers of the heavens,
	And had scanned them o'er and o'er

"For the sign which had been promised,
	Of the coming of the Son;
For did not the scriptures testifv
	That Shilohh would surely come ?
Long, long years they'd watched and
		waited,
	When upon one peaceful night
A new star in the firmament,
	Which was wonderfully bright.

"So they gathered up their treasures,
	And with faith unwavering,
They started out for Bethlehem
	In search of Israel's King.
And the star of brilliant beauty
	Went before them on their way

Till majestically it rested,
	'Over where the young child lay.'
Not o'er towering, shining turrets.
	O'er a gilded palace dome,
Nor to halls of polished marble,
	Had the princely wise men come.

But they found their King in a stable,
	With a manger for his bed;
Born and nourished by a Virgin,
	Just as the scriptures read.

"Now they praised the God of Jacob
	That they'd lived to see this day,
When, though humble, meek and lowly,
	The blessed Savior lay.
They had found the true Immanuel,
	Lord of lords, and King of kings,
On their bended knees they praised him,
	Gave him gifts of precious things;
They gave him oriental treasures,
	Then exclaimed with Simeon old:
'Lord, thy salvation we have seen it,
	Take us now into Thy fold.' "
					RUTH M. FOX.


The fourth triennial of the National
Council of women of the United States will
be held in Washington, D. C., beginning
February 19, 1902, and extending probably
over the 25th.
	Alabama has adopted its new constitu-
tion. One of its anomalous features, as an
indignant Alabama lady writes, is that a
man whose wife owns forty acres of land
can vote in virtue of that fact, but the wife 
herself cannot vote even if she owns four
hundred acres.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
SALT LAKE STAKE.

	Relief Society conference of December
21, 1901, opened in the 14th Ward Hall,
with President M. I. Horne presiding.
Singing, "O, give me back my prophet
dear." Prayer by Sister E. J. Stevenson. 
Continued by singing, "Weep, weep not
for me Zion." Minutes of morning session
of previous conference read and accepted.
	President Horne felt we were more in-
different in attending our conferences in
the city than elsewhere. Are we preparing
for the Savior? Thought He could say if
He should come today, "Shall I find faith 
in the earth?"
	Branches all reported except five.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde's resignation was
read and accepted and she was given a
vote of thanks.
	A report of the work in the Temple was
read.
	The names of the officers of the General
Board were read and sustained. The
Stake officers were sustained as follows:
M. I. Horne, president; Sarah J. Cannon, 
first counselor Clara C. Cannon, second
counselor; J. S. Woolley, secretary; Maggie
C. Hull, treasurer; Maria W. Wilcox, 
corresponding secretary; Julia C. Howe,
Lydia D. Alder, aids. All presidents of 
branches in the Salt Lake Stake were sus-
tained. 
	President Horne spoke upon the duties
of the Relief Society members. Keep from
evil thoughts or actions, pay tithing and
attend our meetings. 
	President B. W. Smith felt we should 
look after the poor and make their hearts
rejoice during the cold weather. Let us
be united. Felt she had a great responsi-
bility, wished to do all she did prayerfully
and honorably. Felt pleased with 
her counselors and all officers. "It 
is our duty to keep the Temple clean
and it must be attended to." 
	Sister Annie T. Hyde felt Relief Society
work is a sacred responsibility on every
officer and member. Felt the teachers
should help take care of their respective
blocks. Spoke of the birthday of Presi-
dent Joseph Smith and his true friendship
for women, that she had enjoyed her work
in the Stake and felt she had a great re-
sponsibility in her new position. Said
the people usually donate liberally at 
Christmas time, and we must distribute
liberally to them. Was pleased the 
Prophet Joseph Smith's birthday was to
be celebrated. Believed it should be, that
he was a great gift from God. Spoke of
the trials and experiences of President
Joseph F Smith in the early days. Felt
we do not appreciate our blessings. Let
us speak of all the best we can. 
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction, C. C. Cannon. 
	Afternoon session of conference called to
order at 2 o'clock by President M. I. 
Horne. Singing, "We thank Thee, O
God, for a prophet." Prayer by Maria
W. Wilcox. Singing, "Praise to the man
who communed with Jehovah." Minutes of
afternoon session of last conference read
and accepted. 
	President M. I. Horne felt that there is
nothing greater or grander to read about
than the life's experience of President
Joseph Smith, and the difficulties he had to
encounter in doing the work he had to
accomplish. 
	President B. W. Smith said she was
very young when she became acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph; that she had a

[column 2]
strong testimony of his mission before she
every saw him and was always anxious to
hear him speak, he was always full of in-
struction and revelation. She was often
in his society and was well acquainted with
him. Her husband was one of the Twelve.
She was at the organization of the Relief
Society when Joseph Smith often visited
and gave instruction to its members. He
said, "I will live and die amongst you, and
you won't know me." Said his wife, 
Emma, was much beloved. 
	Amellie W. Wardrop was chosen and
sustained as secretary of our Saturday
meetings.
	Sister M. W. Wilcox was acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo, had
often heard him speak. Remembered the
night of his death and of viewing his re-
mains in the mansion house. Felt it a
great privilege to have known him. 
	Sister Lambert said she had a testimony of
the Gospel the moment she saw the Proph-
et. There was a power in him she never
knew in another. Thought the harmony
and order there is among the people should
be a testimony to the world. The night of
his death was one of sorrow. There was
no sleep in our house, it seemed all nature
was awake, the cattle even could not rest. 
	President Bassett said she remembered
seeing him. 
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon said she re-
membered how even the little children
wept at his death. 
	The congregation sang, "The Spirit
of God." 
	President Horne said she had often en-
tertained the Prophet Joseph Smith. He
often spoke of the mistranslations of the
Bible and gave much instruction upon
the domestic phase of life, said he was
jovial and pleasant to all. She also 
spoke of the noble parentage of our
present President, Joseph F. Smith. 
	President Angus M. Cannon was first
acquainted with President M. I. Horne in
1844. Said he had heard Joseph Smith
bear a testimony of God. "He has brought
us a knowledge of the truth. The man or
woman is rich who has faith in the Lord." 
Spoke of the mission of our Savior, of His
prayer in Gethsemane to let the bitter cup
pass, but He at last submitted and said, 
"Let thy will, not mine, be done." Let
us remember the mercies and blessings of
God. 
	Brother Jos. E. Taylor was the next
speaker. He said when he was a young
man and his mind was depressed and
darkened he would speak of the mission of
Joseph Smith, and these feelings departed
and his mind was lit up. Was glad his
birth was to be celebrated. Nothing could
be said of him that was too good. He
crossed the river at Nauvoo and healed
every man he touched. Spoke of the
righteousness of Hyrum Smith. Every-
thing that we require to take us into our
Eternal Father's presence Joseph Smith
held the keys to. 
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon was then set
apart by Presidents Angus M. Cannon and
Jos. E. Taylor; Julia S. Woolley set apart
as secretary of Stake; Amelia W. Ward-
rop as secretary of Saturday meetings. 
	President Horne wished all a merry
Christmas and a happy and prosperous New
Year. 
	Meeting adjourned for three months. 
Singing, "The God we adore." Bene-
dfction by President A. M. Cannon. 
				J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Louisa C. L. Olsen, who was born at Folingbo,
Sweden, September 21, 1820. She was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, February 3, 1861. Emigrated to Utah
March 31, 1864. Married Martin Olsen, October
10, 1866.
	Sister Olsen died at Goshen, Utah, July 31,
1901. She was a faithful teacher and member of
the Goshen Relief Society for many years and
she may well be called a Saint in very deed.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst our beloved sister and co-
worker, therefore be it
	Resolved, that the members of the Goshen
Relief Society emulate her virtues, honesty, integ-
rity, humility and kindness, also her great devo-
tion to her religion. Be it also
	Resolved, that we tender our sympathy to her
husband’s family, for they will miss her kind and
tender care now she has departed. Be it
	Resolved, that we spread a copy of the resolu-
tions on our record, give one ;o the bereaved
family and send one to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
EMMA PETTIS, Sec,

MARY ANN HYDE.
	We are again called to part with another faith-
ful sister, who departed this life, December 1,
1901.
	Sister Mary Ann Hyde, wife of Rosel Hyde,
was born December 31, 1820. She was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in 1834. She made her home with the
Prophet Joseph Smith until she married Brother
Hyde on December 12, 1832, in Payson. Ill.
	When the Relief Society was organized in
Kaysville, May 16, 1868, she was chosen first
counselor to Sister Ann Smith. In 1872 Sister
Smith died and Sister Hyde was appointed to take
her place.
	She was always at her meetings on time. She
was always kind to her sisters and was a peace-
maker among all whom she was acquainted.
	In July, 1882, Sister Hyde resigned the office of
president, but still retained a membership until
her death.
	She raised a family of five sons and four
daughters. She lived the life of a Saint in every
respect and set a good example to her children.
	One son is president over Pocatello Stake in
Idaho, and one son is a Bishop in Star Valley,
Wyoming. She was in good standing in the Church.
She has gone to receive her reward with the true
and faithful. She would rather suffer a wrong
than do one. She died as she lived, in peace with
all who knew her.
	Her memory will long be cherished by many
who knew her.
	It can truly be said of Sister Hyde. “Well done
thou good and faithful servant, rest in peace until
the resurrection shall restore all things.”
SARAH B. LAYTON

HENRIETTA HOLLADAY.
	In the midst of life we have death. Thus again
our generous Father has seen fit to call home
another of our hard-working, never-wavering
sisters.
	Sister Henrietta Holladay was born in Lorain
County, Ohio, September 26, 1833. Her parents
were Benjamin F. and Ann Mennels Taylor.
At eight years of age she was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. In
1850 she with her parents crossed the plains in
Capt. Wall’s company, arriving in Utah in the
fall of that year. In 1851 she went with her par-
ents on a mission to Southern California. In 1852
She was married to David H. Holladay and
moved back to Utah. In 1857, the following
year, she moved to Santaquin, where she resided
until her death, which occured September 27,
1901. Thus was ended the career of one who was
all that is worthy of a model of nobleness.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst our sister, Henrietta Holla-
day, who was treasurer of the Relief Society
of Santaquin when first organized, and a
faithful worker, and one who always had a kind,
cheering word for all, therefore, be it
	Resolved, that we, the members of the Santa-
quin Relief Society, do hereby express our heart-
felt sympathy to the bereaved family.
ALICE ELLSWORTH.
Santaquin, Nov. 5, 1901.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NEW YEAR TRIBUTES.

My Sister Nancy: This bright New Year’s morn,
Thy cherished memory I will adorn
With sweet “For-get-me-nots.” For at the time
When earth life ceased for thee, and life sublime,
In the fair spirit land before thee ope’d,
I was not near thee, as we both had hoped;
But far away; no token I bestowed,
And all these weeks and months this debt have owed.

In fragrant June of Nineteen hundred one
Thy earthly record closed, thy work was done;
Well hadst thou earned thy passport and release,
And in thy new promotion rest and peace!
I owe thee much of tenderness and love;
No gentler spirit in that home above,
Among the just made perfect will be known,
And Father understandeth well his own.

His faithful, loving, true and loyal child,
Who lived the pure religion undefiled.
How often is the spirit hampered here,
With hurtful things which hold, and interfere
With best progression; but henceforth, for thee,
I feel there is no clog, thy course is free;
And truest peace and rest for thy rich mind,
Must needs be usefulness of noblest kind

My dear, sweet sister! may thy labors be
Such as permit thee oft to think of me,
And as my mind goes out to thee, perforce,
In spirit may we hold blest intercourse;
Live o’er again bright hours of guileless youth;
Reach forward, grasping new, enliv’ning truth,
Praise God and bless Him for the gift of tho’t;
And parting, breathe again, “For-get-me-not!”

EVA.

A lover of beauty and truth wast thou,
Of children and sunshine, books and flowers;
	And pleasant it is to consider now,
	The restful smile on thy lip and brow,
How passeth thy peaceful, heavenly hours.
	This New Year’s morn, Nineteen hundred two,
	By thy mother’s grave finds thine own made new.

And together ye work in that sacred place,
Where only the pure and good may appear;
	The glory of love lighteth either face—
	And how many will greet thee with glad embrace,
For whom thou hast worked in the Temples here!
	Grand was thy mission upon this earth,
	Enriched with gems of the highest worth.

Thy father, brothers and sisters all,
Have thy loving words and deeds rehearsed;
	And He who marketh the sparrows’ fall,
	Hath kindly granted thy mother’s call,
That thou, of her daughters, shouldst join her first.
	Oh, visit us oft, in this world of strife,
	With visions or dreams of thy new, bright life!

Thy soul’s companion remaining still,
Calmly resigned to thy summons hence,
	Waiteth to finish the Father’s will—
	But, oh, what joy will your beings thrill,
In the resurrection’s sweet recompense;
	When spirit and body again nnite,
	In fullness of glory and love and light!
						L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


ONE WOMAN’S PRAYER.
			IXION.

She sat with downcast face and tearful eyes,
	And sighed as if her heart were very sore.
Her friends beheld—and with a look of deep sur-
	prise
Asked: “Whatever canst thou ask for more?

“See! thou hast husband, children, home and
		friends,
	Health, peace and happiness without restraint,
Not these alone! He now another blessing sends—
	Wealth, and honest fame without a taint.”

But still she sat with downcast, tearful eyes;
	And still she sighed; yet answered low and
		meek:
“I do not fail, my friends, to realize,
	The worth of all the gifts of which you speak.

“Yet am I troubled! Sorrow have I known
	And sickness o’er and o’er; while Death and I
With frequent greetings have familiar grown.
	O, give me strength to bear, has been my cry.

“And now, when ease, prosperity and peace,
	Spread out their glittering web for my poor
		feet,
I shrink! and question if some magic fleece
	Hath not wrought out for me this wonder sweet

“Prosperity, and ease, and peace! What snares
	Are hidden in thy brilliant velvet wings.
Wealth, fame and honor! what weight of cares
	Will linger in thy smiling, subtle stings.


“I’ve loved the Christ; and with that love have
		sought
	To fashion life upon His solemn story.
Trial and death, and woe and pain have wrought
	In my past life a gleam of His great glory.

“And now the sorest trial, the keenest test,
	Of all that He has hitherto sent me,
Approaches with a gay and laughing jest,
	And even thou the danger cannot see.

“Dear friend, thou’st loved me in my low estate,
	And wept and prayed with me in bitter hours,
Now further prove thy love, and pray and wait,
	Till God withdraws the thorns from these His
		flowers.

“You know my heart, you know my great desire
	While I may live on earth to serve the Lord.
To rear the little ones so that they aspire
	For nothing greater than His spoken word.

“Ah, pray for me! and ever as you pray
	Ask Him to give me grace for every hour.
Let Him rebuke, chastise me day by day,
	Nor leave me to that other Evil Power.

“Whatever we may do, or me or mine
	To speed the cause of Righteousness today
With fame or wealth, oh let us do! They’re
		Thine,
Oh, Lord, If we misuse, then take them all
		away.

“Of all the gifts we may enjoy, there’s one
	We most desire; the gift of Love! And then—
So loving all Thou has created—give us
	Power to help Thee save the souls of men!”


GREETINGS TO RELIEF SOCIETY.
					January 1, 1902.
Beloved Sisters:
	With the dawn of this New Year’s day I
send greetings to the noble band of Relief
Society workers throughout the world. Let
us go forth at this hour with renewed
resolutions to take up the work of relief
and improvement with a strong purpose
and with even more faith and love and
unity than we have ever enjoyed.
	Let forgiveness and charity be our bond.
	Let love and cleanliness and order rule
in every home that our children may not
desire to leave the fireside for idle pleas-
ures.
	And, dear sisters, seek to bind your
society with hoops of love and union.
	Let not harsh words pass our lips, nor
yet any envious nor unkind thought enter
our hearts. Read often First Corinthians,
thirteenth chapter, that we may seek more
ardently the spirit of charity. Be prayer-
ful and seek earnestly to improve.
	Be not carried away with vain social
pleasures and the foolish fashions of the
hour.
	Make yourselves beautiful; be gentle
and womanly.
	The Prophet Joseph addressing the
sisters at the first meeting (the organiza-
tion of this society, March 17, 1842, Nau-
voo, Ill.) said: “This society of sisters
might provoke the brethren to good works
in looking to the wants of the poor, search-
ing after objects of charity, and in admin-
istering to their wants, and to assist by
strengthening the virtues of the commun-
ity.” When I heard these words from the
lips of the prophet, a little of the greatness
of the work to be done by the Relief
Society came before me, and I have never
felt to shirk the duties devolving upon me
either as a member or an officer of this
association.
	I feel that I have been blest in my labors
while ministering to the sick and unfor-
tunate and have experienced much joy in
Relief Society work, and I feel to promise
similar blessings to those who lovingly and


faithfully take up a part of this labor of
relief.
	My counselors, Sister Annie T. Hyde
and Sister Ida Smoot Dusenberry, join
with me in sending greetings of love and
good will and wishes for a prosperous and
successful year.
	Peace be with you. 
				BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
President of the Relief Society in all the
	world.
	Salt Lake City, No. 122 North West
Temple Street.


FAMOUS OLD LIBETRY BELL.
	Philadelphia, Jan. 6.—The old Liberty
bell, accompanied by Major Ashbridge and
an official escort of City Councilmen and
city department heads, started on a journey
to the Charleston exposition at 9 o’clock this
morning. As the special train left the
Pennsylvania station, a salute of twenty-
one guns was fired at the League Island
navy yard.
	The passage of the Liberty bell through
Harrisburg today was not marked by any
formal greeting on the part of the city
officials and organizations. Union station,
however, and other points of vantage from
which the precious relic could be viewed,
were crowded. A delegation of citizens
from Carlisle and other points in the
Cumberland valley met the train here to
act as an escort through that region. This
is the first time the bell has ever gone
through the historic valley, and prepara-
tions have been made in every town and
hamlet along the route to accord it a fitting
reception.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	On November 12 Mrs. Elizabeth Cady
Stanton celebrated her 80th birthday at
her home in New York City.

	About $4000 has been raised for the
Boer women and children’s relief fund at a
great meeting in Philadelphia, which was
addressed by Rev. Mr. Van Broekhuizen, a
Boer clergyman.

	Mrs Martha Callanan has left $20,000
to the Booker Washington school at
Tuskegee, and $1,000 to Mrs. Sarah
Whitney in trust for the Woman's
Standard, the organ of the Iowa Woman’s
Suffrage Association.

	The Annual Convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association
will be held February 12th to the 18th, and
arrangements have been made for extension
of time on railroad certificates for those in
attendance at that meeting to cover the
Council meetings if desired.

	Hotel Fairfax (formerly known as
Willard’s) corner of 14th and F. Streets, is
offered for Council headquarters at most
reasonable rates, namely: rooms, $1.50 and
upwards. (This price is for rooms only.)
A good and reasonable restaurant is in the
hotel.

	Bulletin No. 4 will contain international
news, and it is hoped an important com-
munication from Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson,
Cabinet Head of the department of Art and
Literature, together with hints regarding
the triennial program.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1902.


[Column 1]
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
Official announcement of tke organization of
	the General Presidency of the Relief
	Society.
	To the officers and members of the
several Stakes and branches of the Relief
Society in the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.
	Our Father in heaven, who doeth all
things well, has seen fit to call home to a
better world our beloved and revered presi-
dent, Sister Zina D. H. Young, after a
long life of active usefulness, and blessed
ministrations in the spirit of the Gospel,
and the calling assigned her by the Priest-
hood of the Church. of which she was a
faithful member. She passed peacefully
away August 28, 1901, beloved by all who
knew her, and many thousands bless and
honor her memory. “Blessed are the dead
which die in the Lord from henceforth.
Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest
from their labors: and their works do follow
them.”
	On Tuesday, October 31, 1901, Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith was elected to fill the
vacancy caused by the demise of the late
president, Sister Young, and at the special
conference of the Church, Sunday, Novem-
ber 10, 1901, Sister Smith was sustained as
president of the Relief Society in all the
world. Her counselors, who had been
previously chosen were also sustained;
they are Sister Annie Taylor Hyde and
Sister Ida Smoot Dusenberry, also Sister
Emmeline B. Wells, secretary, and Sister
Clarissa Smith Williams, treasurer. These
are the general officers that were sustained
at the special conference by vote of all the
quorums of the Priesthood, and the mem-
bers of the Church who were present on
that memorable occasion.
	We unitedly join with our sisters and co-
laborers here in Zion and abroad in all
parts of the world in gratitude to our
Father in heaven for His innumerable
blessings, that have been manifest ever
since the society was first organized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo, Illinois,
March 17, 1842, now nearly sixty years
ago; and we humbly beseech the blessings
and guidance of our heavenly Father, to
direct all our future efforts, and pray that
the Holy Spirit may be with those who
labor in any capacity therein, and bless
their ministrations however lowly their
calling may be
	We have not taken these responsibilities

[Column 2]
upon ourselves, but have been called in
the order of the holy Priesthood, and we
humbly desire to magnify the callings
given to us of the Lord, and in order to do so
acceptably, we shall need the faith and sup-
port of the First Presidency of the Church,
the Apostles, presidents of Stakes and Bish-
ops, whom we ever feel to uphold, and with
whom we desire to work in harmony, and
to merit at all times their confidence and
blessing.
	Signed,
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
General President.
ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE,
First Counselor.
IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY,
Second Counselor.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,
General Secretary.
CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS,
General Treasurer.
Salt Lake City, Dec. 30, 1901.


[Column 1]
THE NEW YEAR, 1902.
	A Happy New Year to all our readers,
patrons and friends, and may it prove a
more prosperous one to our dear little
EXPONENT, financially and otherwise.
Great advancement is being made in many
directions and along many lines of pro-
gress, and the sisters of the Relief
Society who expect official information
and instruction through the EXPONENT,
should make a diligent effort to extend its
circulation more widely than hitherto.
	The year nineteen hundred and two has
been ushered in with every indication
of prosperity and the people have every
blessing needful for their comfort and sus-
tenance in this goodly land. The Latter-
day Saints are in the enjoyment of so
many things to be thankful for—among
others peace, freedom from oppression,
and opportunity of spreading the Gospel
of light and truth for the salvation of the
living and the redemption of the dead.
There is much to be grateful for and the
Lord is multiplying His blessings from
day to day and from time to time
Throughout the United States conditions
are changing for the better, and especially
is this the case in regard to the woman ques-
tion; to be sure the world over, much has
been effected during the last few years. It
began in America and has been carried to
many countries. In Washington, D. C, at
the Annual Convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association,
which will open February 12 many coun-
tries will be represented by delegates and
speakers. In fact it will be international
in its nature. The pioneer workers in the
movement and some of the greatest women
in the world will be gathered there on that
auspicious occasion, to tell what has been
accomplished, and the outlook for the
future.
	The four Western states that have suc-
ceeded in obtaining equal suffrage will
send delegations undoubtedly, and assured-
ly the Utah representatives will be on
hand to report the good work and the bene-
fits of the law that gives woman so many
privileges in her own right.
	In Germany particularly, according to
the press reports of the International
Council of women, the woman question
has made great progress. In that country
“there are between the ages of 17 and 50
4,000,000 spinsters; 40 per cent of all the

[Column 2]
women in Germany are unmarried, and a
large proportion of these must earn their
bread. In the past they have lacked
education and industrial training, but
now they have both, in a measure. There
are now industrial schools for women in
all the large towns of Germany, many of
them receiving municipal aid and some
of them notably in Berlin, entirely sup-
ported by the city.”
	The practical reforms in many things
and in many ways that have been brought
about directly or indirectly through the
woman movement would fill a volume
were they enumerated—they (the women)
have not exactly “turned the world up-
side down,” as great and wise men pre-
dicted they would, when first the move-
ment began, but they have made many
wonderful changes. And certainly some
of the greatest and best men have since
been willing to admit, that it has been
vastly for the improvement of the world at
large, as well as the individual.
	Here in our beautiful mountain retreat
away from much of the turmoil and strife
of the outside world, the people enjoy
many sacred privileges that perchance
some hold lightly, because they are every-
day affairs, and they know little by con-
trast; but those who have passed through
the persecutions, drivings and mobbings,
certainly know how to fully appreciate the
days in which we live at the present time,
and their testimony and experience during
the bitter trials of earlier years in the his-
tory of the Church should make an im-
pression upon the younger generation that
ought to inspire them with reverence for
these veterans of battles for the truth, who
fought the good fight with humility for their
armor, and the sword of truth for their
defence; and it should prove to them that
the Lord is able and willing to deliver His
people and to lead them to victory in His
own way and time. The pioneers who
sought out this resting place were not only
great in pioneering and colonizing, but
they were also in the best and truest
sense pioneers for the establishment of
truth upon the earth; the builders of
Temples and sanctuaries in which to wor-
ship God, as well as homes for a people
who had been obliged to go beyond the
borders of civilization Truly enough
history repeats itself, for these stalwart
leaders of the great exodus were the des-
cendants of the pilgrims who fled from
their native land and crossed the mighty
ocean to seek an asylum and refuge where
they might worship God according to the
dictates of their own consciences.
	And now the children and grandchil-
dren of the Utah pioneers are in posses-
sion of the fullest freedom and liberty ever
enjoyed by any body of people, and let us
hope and pray that they may hold it so
sacredly, and stand firmly for equity and
truth, maintaining the rights bequeathed
to them from the fathers who have passed
to the great beyond into the spirit world,
and never let the power of mammon and
of unrighteousness make them false to the
integrity and trust they are so proud of as
their rightful inheritance.
	The young people of this new state
should also be proud of the honor of state-
hood and stand for all that is best and
highest in government for all the people of
the state and for the United States; the free
Republic is also growing and expanding,
lengthening its borders gnd strengthening


other countries, and the freedom vouch
safed to this nation, is a heritage bestowed
by the men who fought for liberty and
were inspired to frame the Constitution of
these United States, and the Declaration
of Rights, so wisely constructed. Every
one who desires the highest good of the
country has abundant scope in this free
land to exercise his best gifts for the good
of all.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	There will be a National Peace Demon-
stration made by the women of all
countries in May, 1902. May Wright
Sewall is chairman in the United States.
	Monday, January 6, there was a Whitney
gathering at the residence of Horace G.
Whitney, Business Manager of the
Deseret News Company. The house was a
blaze of light, and the rooms beautifully
decorated for the occasion, which was the
birthday anniversary of the host. There
were Whitneys and Whitneys and Whit-
neys, large and small, old and young—
grandchildren and great grandchildren of
Bishop Newel K. Whitney, the founder of
the Whitney family in the valley of the
Great Salt Lake. There was feasting and
talking, instrumental music by Miss Hattie
Whitney, singing by Bishop O. F. Whit-
ney and his sister, Mrs. Marian Whitney
Dinwoodey, and George D. Pyper, whose
wife is a Whitney, and a poem by Bishop
Whitney, and the party was a great suc-
cess. The brothers and sisters of H. G.
Whitney presented him with an elegant
copy of Napoleon Bonaparte in three
volumes, very handsomely illustrated, and
as he is an ardent lover of books, it was a
most appropriate gift. May the Whitneys
increase and multiply in numbers and in
strength and each one remember to honor
the name made illustrious in the history of
the Church by their honored ancestor,
Bishop Newel K. Whitney.
	We are very proud to welcome among
the periodicals of Utah the Children’s
Friend, a most happy title it seems to be,
and may the venture be a successful one for
the Primary Association. The table of
contents gives good promise of its useful-
ness among the little people and those who
have charge of them. The “Greeting”
from the president of the General Board,
Louie B. Felt, is full of deep love and
humble appreciation of her high position
and its great responsibilities, and it breathes
the true spirit of devotion and helpfulness.
“Suggestions to Officers” contains many
lessons that if carefully studied, followed
and applied will be of great benefit in the
daily labors of those who desire to make
themselves competent teachers in this work
of love among the children. Lula’s poem
is very sweet and full of love, and alto-
gether the new magazine is in the spirit of
the Primary work and makes one think
of the Savior’s words, “Except ye become
as one of these, ye cannot enter the king-
dom of heaven.” These dear sisters whose
work is among the little children will have
the opportunity of growing into that per-
fect love the Savior laid down as the
golden rule of life. The lessons all seem
to have been carefully arranged and with
such a complete guide, surely the associa-
tions will work in perfect harmony. The
Children’s Friend should assuredly be taken
in every home of the Latter-day Saints.


[column 1]
“RHYMELETS IN MANY MOODS,"
BY H. W. NAISBITT.

	This, the first of the “Home Circle”
series, came as a sweet thought for the
Christmas time. “Rhymelets” you are wel-
come! Like the sweet flowers of May,
and the blushing rose of June, you add
beauty and fragrance to the world. You
tell stories of love, of devotion of trial and
exultation. You touch new chords of the
heart, that never thrilled before; fire some
thought of the measureless Unknown,
and sing songs that we have known from
childhood in a tender strain. You bear
the impress of eternal Truth that has
flowed from Inspiration’s pen.
	You bring up memories of the sea, the
bright, undulating, mighty sea, and
days, when as strangers in the world, we
gleaned in the vineyard, finding here and
there much choice, tender wheat that must
be garnered into the storehouse of the
husbandmen. How beautifully you sing
of Friendship, strong and lasting, with-
standing the storms of Time, and finding
its full fruition in worlds Celestial.
	Appreciation tells its tale, and the vision
of futurity is opened to view, revealing
what will be. Sweet cadences are sung of
the Past, that recall the path trodden in
sweetest expectation. Dreamland is opened
to our view, where people revel, whom we
have forgotten or have never had life.
Sweet fancies of Dreamland live on; in thy
world we taste of love unknown on earth,
and dwell in realms that are yet to be.
Prophecy unveils the future, and must
ever go hand in hand with Poetry.
	In “The Parting’’ sweet thoughts are
expressed.

	“They meet no more—can this be true ?
	   Is every dream and love lit thought
	To be transferred to objects new
	   As traffic by a merchant bought?

	Will not in after years there come
	   Thoughts of the quiet rambles, where
	Love’s fond expression both could seal
	   By methods which a world doth share?”

	How beautifully expressed are the
thoughts in “My Unexpected Friend.”

Distant, though near when music of thy greeting
    Falls on mine ear, inspiring as it rings,
Unsatisfied if chance prevent a meeting.
     Until dispelled by stress of other things.

Alike in taste, alike in aspiration,
    And yet distant enough for mental interchange;
Because of age, experience or association,
    As known alone through less or wider range.

*	*	*	*
 
‘When all our dreams come true,’ the Poet wrote,
    ‘Eternal fitness will be found to reign—
Shadows will be the substance, dreams the real;
    Thus kindred only separate to meet again.”

	Thoughts unraveling the skein of life
are given in “Love Unappeased.”

	“May be it was kinship, or friendship, or love
	Which had its beginning in mansions above;
	   If so ’tis immortal and death will explain
	The secret of loving—in loving again.”

	Thoughts of the missionary field are
stirred by reading, “In the Missionary
Field.”

“Not far from that boisterous, wild, mad crew
   The voice of singing fell on my ear.
I turned again, for ’twas fresh and new,
   And touched my soul as I lingered near.

The words were stirring, yet wondrous sweet,
   Both they and the tune were as if divine;
Then prayer was offered as silence sweet,
   On that throng fell at the hour of nine. 

[column 2]
An earnest man then rose and told
   Of Gospel light and a Father’s love;
The contrast fell as ’twixt dust and gold,
   In the two old streets as I both did prove.”

	The street meetings in the old market
places arise to view. And the queer wind-
ing streets seem with us. Who can ever
forget such meetings, where the songs of
Zion resound on summer air in the streets
and lanes of England !
	“Rhymelets” we wish you every suc-
cess. May you enter every home in Zion,
your sentiments be read by young and old,
and your songs re-echo till Eternity’s
dawn.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
PHEBE C. YOUNG.
	The long shadows of the dying year are
falling over the world. The beautiful
green leaves of summer, now sere and
dead, rustle on the ground. Piercing north
winds blow them about as worthless things.
In heaps they lie down in the furrows
under the moss. They cling around the
roots of brush and tree to check their
drifting, or they are trodden under the
foot of men.
	The grim Reaper, too gathers his harvest.
Away in the earth reverently the dead part
is laid. But by the decree of God, the
spirit ascends to worlds on high.
	What a glorious change, from ice, cold
and snow, to a Summer Land! There
flowers of gorgeous hue are playing in the
warm south wind Wide spreading trees
are clothed with foliage of daintiest green
and the grass is thick like velvet to step
upon.
	Thoughts like these fill the mind, as we
stand by the bier of one whose memory is
precious, and whose virtues we would
emulate. She has joined the innumerable
host, who, one by one, gather on the other
shore
	Surrounded by loved ministering angels,
the frail moorings of life were loosened.
With a sigh her spirit was borne away,
leaving the worn out tenement to moulder
to dust. There will be a vacant chair, and
the loss of a tender mother’s loving hand.
But love remains; it is indestructible, and
like sweet incense will ever twine around
her memory.
	Her beautiful, spiritual mind, untram-
meled now by blight of time or cares of
earth, will be inspired by the glory of the
eternal world. Her aspirations for pro-
gression and development, so longed for
here, will find full fruition.
	As a wife and mother she was an ex-
ample of loving solicitude and consistent
piety. Through affliction’s vale she walked
with trembling step, but no murmuring
word. In Trial’s fiery furnace her nature
was refined, and thus she came in closer
communion with the Eternal One. Her
days of loneliness, their depth known only
to God, are over. She is reunited with
the treasures she laid on the altar, and
whose loss made the world a barren wilder-
ness. How bravely she gathered up the
broken threads of life, learning to live
without them, she alone knows.
	She was faithful in every calling of life;
every duty was conscientiously performed.
By her friends and associates of the Press
Club her memory is revered She was a
valued member, and graced the various
positions she vas called upon to fill. Re-


liable when a task was assigned her, she
honorably performed it, gave it her best
efforts.
	From her pen flowed thoughts that were
fathomed out of the well of eternal truth;
and whether in prose or verse, bore the
impress of a superior mind.
	Yet she was so unassuming ! By the
thoughtless she was not noticed, but to those
not captivated by the shining, shallow
sands of life, she was a kindred spirit,
whom to know was to love, and to love
was to revere. The first year of the new
century brought her release, and the year
of Jubilee.
	The shadows of the old year grow longer
on her grave. On the hillside the winter
winds sing her requiem.
	The year and herself have performed
well their missions, and it is well they
should rest from their labors.
	It will only be a little season for her
then the trump of God will sound, and the
dead in the Lord will rise and behold him,
surrounded by countless concourses of
Saints and angels. Then He will make up
His jewels, and they will be like unto her,
clothed in robes of righteousness and wear-
ing the victor’s crown.

Only a little rest, where mountain breezes sigh;
Only a little rest the years are passing by;
Watch and wait, ye loved ones, count well the passing
	years.
Hear again her counsels, heed not your falling tears.

Know that the way of life is through the vale of Death,
That lasting joy is found, through the last failing breath;
Be as true and faithful, as all who enter there,
Her treasures ye are still, and will her glory share.

’Tis not good bye forever—bless the Gospel sound,
Life and immortality in that world abound.
There the ransomed of all ages, joyous will meet,
Sing the song Triumphant, and their Redeemer greet.

’Tis life beyond the river, on the shining shore,
Love of Christ the giver, a fullness evermore.
Then on the hillside rest ’mong the countless dead,
Where breezes sigh in Summer, while stars gleam over-
	head.
						LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
NORTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference of
the North Sanpete Stake which convened in
the Mt. Pleasant meeting house, November
23, 1901.
	Meeting opened with singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer
by Edward Cliff. Singing, “How firm a
foundation.” President W. Erickson
welcomed all to our conference. Roll call
showed forty-one visiting officers and mem-
bers.
	The first report was given by Sister
Ellen Tulgren, of Spring City. Said they
had a good set of sisters there and a good
enrollment, but a comparatively small
attendance at the meetings. Had visited
all the poor and aged sisters in the ward.
	Sister Hardy, of Moroni, took pleasure
in reporting her ward. They had interest-
ing meetings. All seemed anxious and
willing to bear their testimonies. They
had energetic teachers. Expected to be
able to build a Relief Society hall this fall
or in the spring.
	Sister Tucker, of Fairview, reported
their ward as being prosperous. Would
soon discontinue sending teachers around
for the winter.
	Sister Libbie Simonson, of Freedom,
said their organization was small, consist-
ing of only nineteen members. Owing to
the limited number it was hard work to

[Column 2]
interest them in it, but hoped to persevere
by persistent effort.
	Sister Stewart, of Milburn, said they had
suffered from floods and drought, but felt
to do the best they possibly could. Had
160 bushels of wheat and were making two
quilts. Had no very poor people in their
ward.
	Sister Hyde, of Salt Lake, brought
greetings from Sister Smith. Said she sent
them this message: “Give them my love,
and tell them to get the Spirit of the Lord
to be with them and to keep it.” Was
pleased to hear the reports. Said her
father was one of those who ordained the
officers of the first Relief Society. When
she was ordained to her present position
President Smith said he wished the Relief
Society to advance in every good thing,
but above all to keep the spirit of the
work. Every pure woman in Zion should
be enrolled in the Relief Society. The
members of the Y. L. M. I. A. and the
Relief Society should mingle and visit one
another more than they do. The older
women will receive inspiration from the
brightness and vivacity of youth, while the
young women in turn will profit by the
experience of their elders. Subjects might
be taken up so that the meetings could be
made instructive and take the place of
clubs and other organizations. One sub-
ject that is of great importance is that of
training children We should seek for the
Spirit of God to assist us in this great
undertaking, that we may know the proper
way to control them We should pray
every day for grace to look inward and
purge ourselves of all evils.
	Sister Farnsworth felt this was the
greatest work we could be engaged in.
Was pleased to see so many brethren
present. Spoke of the Woman’s R. S.
Building, what an advantage it would be
in entertaining the gifted ladies of our
land, and what a benefit to the officers and
visitors from the different parts of
Zion. Said we should seek for the spirit
of the Lord to be our constant companion,
for it is impossible to raise a family proper-
ly without the aid of this.
	Sister Ericksen made a few closing re-
marks. Singing, “Do what is right.”
Benediction by President Matson.
	Afternoon session commencd at 2 p. m.
Singing, “All is well.” Prayer by Presi-
dent C N. Lund. Singing, “O, say what
is truth.”
	Sister Morrison, of Mt. Pleasant, South
Ward, was well pleased with the attend-
ance. All the Mt. Pleasant sisters are
liberal and there is plenty in the treasury
for all the needy if used wisely. The
meetings are quite well attended.
	Candace Wilcox, of Mt. Pleasant North
Ward, said they were trying to do their
duty as they understood it. They had
many poor, but still had considerable in
the treasury.
	Sister Jakeman said she was at one time
secretary of the Relief Society of this Stake
and felt quite at home here. Had taken a
sojourn from home and had the privilege
of explaining the Gospel to many, and
they seemed much interested, especially
with the Relief Society work. Said her
testimony was stronger than it had ever
been before.
	Sister Allred thought to follow the advice
of our aged president, Sister Smith, to get
the Spirit of the Lord and keep it was the
best thing we could do. If we do our
duty He will bless us.

[Column 3]
	Sister Candland was pleased to see so 
many present. Knew we would be blessed
by coming together.
	Sister Farnsworth spoke of an organiza-
tion that had been effected to commemor-
ate the early settlers of this State. They
call themselves the “Daughters of the
Pioneers.”
	Sister Hyde testified to the gift of heal-
ing manifested in behalf of her child. Said
we should lay our burdens before the
Lord and not burden one another with our
troubles.
	President Lund had been very much
edified and was thankful to the sisters for
their wonderful testimonies.
	President W. M. Ericksen made a few
closing remarks. Singing, “Our God we
raise to Thee.” Benediction by Christian
Johansen. Conference adjourned in-
definitely.
		CARRIE L. ERICKSEN, Sec.
SOUTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of the South Sanpete Stake of Zion, held in
Gunnison, September 6, 1901, Presi-
dent Alvira Cox presiding. Singing,
“Earth with her ten thousand flowers.”
Prayer by Bishop Madsen. Singing, “O, say
what is truth.” Minutes of the previous
conference read and accepted.
	The various Stakes were reported by 
each president respectively: Ephraim,
(North and South Wards) Sterling, May-
field, Centerfield, Gunnison and Fayette.
	President Alvira Cox said she felt very
much gratified at having such favorable
reports. Reminded those present of their
Stake dues. Felt that the Lord had great-
ly blessed us in answering to the various
calls that are made from time to time.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, Salt Lake City,
then addressed the conference. Said she
was much pleased in listening to the
reports just given. The Relief Society has
proven itself a valuable institution in this
Church. It is a progressive organization
and a great benefit to humanity. Dwelt
on the importance of having a General
Relief Society building. The demands
made for this purpose perhaps are not fully
understood by those living outside of Salt
Lake City. The Relief Society Central
building will reflect credit on the daughters
of Zion. Spoke of the incorrect ideas
entertained in the world concerning the
Latter-day Saints. Nevertheless the time
will come when the Latter-day Saints will
have to entertain the dignitaries of the
earth, hence the importance of having
suitable places for such purposes. Those
who contribute of their means when calls
are made from time to time will receive a
reward in a time to come, the Lord will
bless them abundantly. We must seek for 
the companionship of the Holy Spirit, that
we may be prepared to bear the trials of
life with fortitude. Spoke of the peaceful 
death of Aunt Zina. Felt that in her
departure she deeply sensed a personal loss.
She had received many encouraging words
from the departed, and those who had
received like consolation would surely
remember it forever. “Aunt Zina is not
dead, but has gone to a higher sphere. 
May we go forth from this conference
with a determination to serve God faithful-
ly, that we, too, may secure an eternal 
salvation in the world to come.
	Conference was then adjourned until 2


p. m. Singing, “Do what is right.”
Benediction, Bishop Fjelsted.
	Afternoon, session opened by singing,
“Should, you feel inclined to censure. ”
Prayer by Sister Mary L. Peterson. Sing-
ing, “O, ye mountains high.”
	“A Word of Greeting,” by Lorenzo
Snow, was read by the secretary.
	A letter written by Sister Emmeline B.
Wells relative to the Relief Society build-
ing was ready Sister Helena Madsen,
after which Counselor Abagail Shoemaker
addressed the conference. Said that we
as members of the Relief Society should
feel determined to assist in this great work.
When the Lord blesses us with means
we should feel willing to give a portion
thereof for the establishment of righteous-
ness in the earth. Exhorted all present to
not fail in contributing to the Relief
Society fund. “Let us strive to instil
faith into the hearts of our children. If
we live lives of purity our prayers will be
answered.” Spoke of the necessity of
storing grain.
	Counselor Jane Bench felt to endorse all
that had been said. Spoke of the benefits
to be derived from attending the Relief
Society meetings. Said she felt these
conferences were productive of much good
and expressed herself as being delighted
with the contemplated Woman’s Building.
Regarded it as an individual duty to assist
in its erection. “Let us strive to do all
that we can.”
	Treasurer Mary T. Peterson hoped we
would profit by the instructions given.
“Let us feel encouraged in the project
before, us, in assisting in the erection of
the Woman’s Building. Let us consider
this a great privileg e.” Said she had
quite recently visited her native land. Felt
great sympathy for the Elders abroad
preaching the Gospel. Prayed we might
be sincere in all our undertakings.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder then addressed
the conference. “It is on account of the
mission of Joseph Smith that we have
been assembled together today.” Sister
Alder said she had just returned from a
European mission. Those inexperienced
in missionary work fail to fully comprehend
the difficulties and perplexities that
missionaries have to contend with. Not-
withstanding their trials the Spirit of God
enables the missionaries to carry on their
work successfully. The speaker had
visited three thousand homes while upon
her mission, and related some very inter-
esting and pleasing incidents connected
therewith. Outlined the p[-]oposed
Woman’s Building and said we should
endeavor to support the calls made- from
time to time, and even be willing to place
all upon the altar of sacrifice. Concluded
her remarks by bearing a strong testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	President Alvira Cox made appropriate
closing remarks after which conference
adjourned for six months, to be held in
Manti.
	Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for
a Prophet.” Benediction by Giles Embley.
		Etta Anderson, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall, September 26,
1901, at 2 o’clock, President M. I. Horne
presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “O Jesus,

[Column 2]
the Giver.” Prayer by Sister J. S.
Woolley. Song, "How will the Saints
rejoice to tell.” Minutes read and approved.
	President Horne felt we would be blessed
though we are few in number, said those
who come together are fed and blessed
by the Spirit of God. Felt the more we
talk and read of spiritual things, the more
we have of the Spirit of God. We find
this in reading the Book of Mormon.
Recommended all to read the Doctrine and
Covenants as this is his word to us today.
Every blessing is comprised in the Gospel,
both spiritual and temporal. Said she
had recently attended a Relief Society
conference at Nephi where a good spirit pre-
vailed.
	Sister B. W. Smith said she always liked
to be encouraged and not scolded, that she
liked to associate with the cream of the
earth and she felt she found them here
that she was sure Sister Zina was happy
where she is, that she could not shed a
tear except for the loss of her society.
"Let us prove by our works our sincerity
to God.”
	Sister Brown spoke of the pleasure she
had in meeting here in the 14th Ward.
Felt there were thousands of good sisters,
but wondered why more did not attend
more faithfully to their duties.
	The congregation sang, "May we who
know the joyful sound.”
	Sister Barrow felt this is the true
Gospel. She wished to set a good example
before her people. Felt if we call upon the
Elders in faith we will always receive a
blessing at their hands.
	Sister Southern said she wished to be a
Latter-day Saint. Sister Matison bore her
testimony.
	The congregation sang "Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.”
	Sister Palmer felt we will be blessed if
we live according to the testimonies we
bear, and that it is a great responsibility
we have.
	Sisters Brooks and Moody bore their
testimonies, felt the hand of the Lord had
been over them for good all their lives,
they received many blessings every day.
Felt we should have faith in the Lord
when we are sick and he will heal us.
	Two other sisters bore testimonies and
said we must remember our actions and
words are watched by angels, that the
testimony we bear on earth we must meet
in heaven.
	Sister Mary Morris said the Lord blesses
us as we bless others.
	Sister Barnes considered these meetings
as a school. Sister Stevenson spoke of the
temptations that are around us, and we
should be indeed careful. Said “Let us
exert ourselves to have wisdom in setting
examples and giving words of counsel to
our young people. Spoke of the beautiful
spirit that reigns in Orderville, (where she
had just visited) of the love that prevails
there. Said she knew that President
Snow was a prophet of God. She had
visited Cassia Stake since our last meeting
and the sisters there were filled with love
for one another.
	Sister Paul felt to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in answering her prayers in
her grandson’s conversion to the truth and
many other things. Said Sister Zina gave
her such a blessing that she had never
received from any other mortal.
	A sister from Orderville bore her testi-
mony. Said she had come to Salt Lake

[Column 3]
City to work in the Temple, that she
always loved to live in the order that was
preached there many years.
	President Horne spoke for a few minutes
on the power that is given to Satan, that
the very elect will be almost deceived.
Said we should always be led by the
whisperings of the Spirit. The Lord gives
us blessings as we seek for them.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Lydia
D. Alder.
L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION.
	The Young Woman’s Journal, a monthly 
magazine, was started in the interest of the
young women of the Territory, in October
1889, with Susa Young Gates as editor.
Lucy A. Clark, one of the charter mem-
bers of the Press Club, was for two or
three years editor of the Farmington Flash-
light. Others are doing a good work on
the same lines who are not named, their
labors not having been specially mentioned.
Among Utah’s best poets is Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp, who has written much that has the
true poetic fire and spirit. 
	Among those first mentioned is Lula
Greene Richards, first editor of the
EXPONENT. She was married the next
year after its publication to L. W. Rich-
ards. Soon after Miss Cornelia S. Horne
was made business manager of the paper.
Mrs. Richards’ home duties increased, and
several of the contributors of the paper
offered assistance, among them was Mrs. E.
B. Wells.
	In May, 1875, Mrs. Wells assumed
regular duty in the office. Later Miss
Horne resigned her position for a higher
one in a home of her own. In July, 1877,
Mrs. Richards vacated the editorial 
chair in favor of Mrs. Wells. One of our
best prose and poetical writers is Augusta
Joyce Crocheron, who has published three
books, one of them a book of poems. She
is very happy in her descriptions of every
day happenings. She is especially good in
essays, stories, either long or short, and has
written various articles as well as biogra-
phical sketches She also excels where
thought is required and elegant expression.
	Lu Dalton and Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh,
(the last named is an Englishwoman, and
an extensive traveler in foreign countries)
are forcible and interesting writers. Emily
H. Woodmansee is one of the most gifted
and inspirational poets of Utah. Ruby
Lamont and Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson (the
doctor was educated in Cambridge Eng.)
especially bright and gifted,
	Helen Mar Whitney and Lulu Greene
Richards are poets, and both are classed
among the spiritual and inspiring writers,
their views in all their writings being
decidedly religious. Susa Young Gates is
spoken of as a most prolific writer.
	Among the younger writers, who give
promise of future excellence, are Annie
Wells Cannon (Camilla) who has traveled
in Germany and Switzerland. She has
written graphic and realistic descriptions of
her experiences while abroad.
	Miss Josephine Spencer is a poet and
certainly excels in description; is good at
stories, and has won several prizes. Lillie
T. Freeze and Julia P. M. Farnsworth
deserve mention as treating their subjects


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
extremely well. Mary A. Freeze and Lucy
A. Clark have both written poems of merit
and are good descriptive writers, also lofty
and religious. Julia I. McDonald is an
unusually genial writer, and much is ex
pected of her in the future. Flora L. Shipp
is gifted as an imaginative writer. Sarah
E. Russell has contributed largely to our
home magizines. Mary Ellen Kimball,
Wilmerth East and Mary A. House are
logical, religious and patriotic writers.
	There are many others, who cannot be
mentioned in this short article, but we
must mention Dr. Romania B. Pratt, who
writes not only scientific articles, but those
that require comprehensive thought.
	Dr. M. Hughes Cannon, B. S., is a
gifted Utah writer, especially in lofty
themes, as well as happy in description.
	Ellen Lee Jakeman has worked at type-
setting, publishing and writing articles on
almost all subjects. She is a correspondent
for papers and magazines in Salt Lake as
well as Eastern and Western papers.
	Mattie H. Tingey, Gladys Woodman-
see, Alice E. Horne, Lizzie H. Shipp,
Emma Ellerbeck, Emily Clowes, Isabel
Sears, Sophy Valentine, Aretta Young,
Vina H. Tingey, Minnie J. Snow, Mary
A. Farnsworth and Zina S. Whitney rep-
resent a large number of young women of
whom much is expected in the future.
	The outlook for literary work among
women is encouraging, and it is thought
that the West will be equal with, if it does
not excel the East in progress and advance-
ment towards the higher education and
development of mankind.
	At the meeting held November 29, Mrs.
Nellie C. Taylor, and Mrs. Elizabeth
Stevenson were admitted to the club as
members. 
	At the meeting held March 16, 1894, Mrs.
H. A. Badger, Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, Miss
Maude Pratt, Miss Pearl Russell, Miss Olea
Shipp, of Salt Lake, and Mrs. Fannie
Stewart, of Pleasant Grove, were voted in
as members.
	At the April meeting the name of Mrs.
A. E. Bennion appears, she having given
a lecture on the “Will.”
	The June meeting was by vote, with the
exception of the musical selection, turned
into an informal reception to the Countess
Wachmeister and Mrs. Egbert Roberts, who
accompanied her, the ladies desiring an
address from the guest of the evening.
	The Countess preferred the members to
ask questions so that she might give the
information thus elicited. She was very
obliging and explained her views on
Theosophy very clearly.
	Several of the ladies availed themselves
of this opportunity to learn something of a
religion comparatively new in the West,
but old as heathen philosophy in the East.
	“Theosophy,” the countess said, “is a
grand brotherhood; all religions contain
some of its principles It has no organiza-
tion.”
	At the July meeting Mesdames J. B.
Lawler, Isabella Cameron Brown, Emma

[Column 2]
Holling and Laura Hyde were received as
members. A letter was read from Nevada
V. Davis, a member who is now in the
East, engaged on the New York Herald.
	At the Annual meeting this year the
ladies impersonated famous people of the
past, either writers or characters. On
motion of Miss Ada Patterson Mrs. E. B.
Wells was made Honorary President of
the club for life. Carried.
	At the December meeting Hon. Phoebe
Cousins, of St. Louis, gave a very interest-
ing lecture on Woman’s Rights, also spoke
on the late silver trouble in Colorado.
	At the January meeting, 1895, the Con-
stitution and by-laws were read by the
secretary. Then each by-law was read
separately. A few changes were made,
but practically they remained as before.
Hattie B. Harker and Rebecca H. Doolan
were received as members.
	At the March meeting, by previous
arrangement, both the U. W. P. C. and
the Reapers’ club met at the residence of
Dr. E. R. Shipp, to greet Mrs. Wells on
her return from the Council of Women,
also Dr. E. R. Shipp, who accompanied
her. The Council was held in Washing-
ton, D. C., Utah had been well rep-
presented. A paper on the Sixth Sense,
by Sarah M. Kimball had been read, also
one on “Heredity,” by Dr. Shipp, and
“Forty Years in the Valiev of the Salt
Lake,” by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	At the April meeting the two clubs
united in giving a reception to the officers
of the Utah Federation of Woman’s Clubs.
There were present Mrs. Corinne Allen,
president; Mrs. McVicker, secretary; Mrs.
Georgie Webber, treasurer; Mrs Ferdinand
Fabian and Miss Mary Teasdale.
	Mrs. H. S. Young, who had proffered
the use of her home, was a very entertain-
ing hostess. The affair was in every way
a pleasant one and the evening was
agreeably spent.
	Mrs. Lizzie Stevenson Wilcox was
selected from the Press Club and gave
“Women in Journalism,” at the annual
meeting of the Federation of Clubs held in
Ogden, May 28.
	The question of a double money stand-
ard for America was taken up and dis-
cussed. In the debate the affirmative won.
	The November meeting, after a short
program had been rendered, was, by sus-
pension of the rules, turned into a reception
to the Misses Chase of Boston, who were
present on the occasion. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young and Mrs. E. B. Wells made speeches
of welcome, and the guests of honor spoke
at some length upon their travels through
the old and new world, from the snowy
Alps to the orange groves of California
from the plains of California to the vol-
canoes of Honolulu, depicting many
interesting things and sights in eloquent
language, then paying a glowing tribute to
glories of Salt Lake valley, with its charm-
ing sunsets and snow-capped mountains,
equal, they said, to the grandeur of the
Alps.
			(Continued.)


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for you money.					TRY US.

[Column 2]
OFFICIAL NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society and the Secretary of each mission
or branch not yet included in a Stake,
whether in our own or in foreign countries,
are hereby officially notified to carefully
prepare correct statistical and financial
reports for the current year from January
1, 1901, to December 31, 1901. These
reports must be forwarded to the General
Secretary, at the office of the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, Utah, early
in February, if possible, so that a complete
report of this great organization may be
ready at least ten days before the General
Conference in April, 1902. Address,
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest sayings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol- 
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
In the State is given by the . . . . .
Oregon Short Line
	Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . . . .

Se that your tickets read via the
				“SHORT LINE”
						And Get the best 

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles,		D. E. Burley,
	Gen Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
