Vol. 30	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, THE CHRISTMAS NUMBER, 1901.	No. 8


CONTENTS.
A Happy Afternoon......................L. L. G. Richards	58
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting..........J. S. Woolley	58
Resolution of Sympathy...........................................	58
Emma Hale Smith...........................Lucy M. Wright	56
Resolution.................................................................	59
Emma Lucy Gates......................................A Friend	61
Granite Stake................................Armeda S. Young	62
Utah Woman’s Press Club......................L. D. Alder	63
EDITORIAL—Christmas Thoughts........................	60
	Wedding Anniversary.......................................	60
	Birthday Banquet..............................................	60
	Editorial Notes..................................................	61
POETRY—The Life Within...Augusta J. Crocheron	57
	The Natal Day.............................Ellis R. Shipp	57 
	At Christmas Tide............Guy Wtmore Cayyrl	57 
	Sarah E. Carmichael............Henry W. Naisbitt	59
	Nineteen One..............................Ellis R. Shipp	59


[Column 1]
THE LIFE WITHIN.
AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.

I saw a model that had been wrought
For a rich man’s castle and grounds,  
A dream of beauty that lacked no thought
You could offer, within their bounds;
For grandeur, beauty and grace were there,
(All to be brought and fashioned, where
The water ran and the grass grew green,
And the ancient trees o’erspread the scene;)
And I thought, as I looked upon site and plan:
“A beautiful form must shrine the man,
Poet and artist, be in his face—
To so transfigure this lonely place.” 

But his form was bent and his face was thin,
And the eyes looked down not up; 
The gifts of his soul all hid within,
Like gems in a covered cup;
Then I thought: “How little we read aright
The faces that pass before our sight;
For there goes a king without his crown,
Ruling, but not by threat or frown;
E’en monarch must search for the Master mind,
The fitting parts of the whole to find,
And the wilderness and the wealth must wait
For the soul to shape and make them great.

So fairy like, only fingers fine
Might touch nor tear such filmy lace; 
I thought: “What dainty maid did twine
These threads with such ethereal grace?
Like the apple bloom, her cheeks fair dye,
Like the sweet ‘forget me not’ her eye,
Like silken floss, her loose bound hair
And her spirit, light as the springtime air?”
For, only by beauty and youth, it seemed,
Were such bewildering marvels dreamed;
Only a young life, bright and new—
Ever such rare ideals drew.

But, like magician in strange disguise,
Bending, the old lace maker stood;
Faded and weak were her faithful eyes,
Gone, all the beauty of maidenhood.
“When—I began to learn this work first?
I remember no more, than when I nursed.
Out of the frost, ere the morning sun,
Some of the patterns I have won.
In dampened room, where threads may not fray,
And on my work one narrow ray,
I’ve toiled life long. We folks need not much—
The fine, gay world for the rich, not such
As we; but, I oft times think we know
Our labors beauty better than they
Who wear it proudly, flaunting so,
Then drop it, as flowers faded away,
While fashion changes another way.”
Then I thought; “Which is the higher one?
The souls that catch, as life’s changes run,
Ideals that in the dim silence fall—
Bringing to touch and sight through all
Poverty’s patience and sacrifice,
Beauties that charm even royal eyes;
Or Fortune’s fair ones that only know
These things after toil hath wrought them so?”
Secure in wealth, ye wear at rest—
Another’s jewels on your breast.

Splendor and beauty that gold hath bought—
Hath it wrought in your souls its spell?
Or do ye wear it with but the thought
That it becometh your beauty well?

[Column 2]
These are only graced without,
Adornings that time and change wear out,
While deep in the toiler’s spirits grow
Visions of beauty in endless flow—
And though they pass from the workers’ hands,
Artists and toilers unknown to fame—
They are the owners—their’s the claim
What is truly ours; if we but begin
To count our treasures? Just what’s within. 

There was a babe most fair and sweet,
(All mothers living think just the same:)
’Twas mine, and my happiness complete,
No cloud o’er my silent dreamings came;
But what I wondered oft: “What will unfold
In this speechless mystery I hold
In my arms, when future years shall bring
God’s purposes to their blossoming?”
O, gently live, that no discord jar
Harmony of his soul, to mar
The perfect plan that thou knowest not—
By him once known but now forgot.

As the years grew on I watched for a sign,
Oft, now and then, I caught, (and smiled)
Some clew to the purposes Divine—
Some blest assurance for the child
Then fears—for who else ever heard
The “still voice” that my spirit stirred,
And how can a mother “hush” the sound
Of a world of strife that gathers ’round 
In closer circles about her own,
And stem back all that were best unknown? 
Smiling the while, as by love, to win,
Which way his spirit leaned within.

By many types, full well I know 
That every creature he hath framed
In our mortality, high or low,
Holdeth such jewel He hath named,
Within its being. “Hide not thy light,”
Is His command. Yet gloom and blight
Thwart the uprising of the soul;
Oppression and poverty control
The spirit that else might show forth
Its hidden treasures, name and worth;
Earth’s fault, not God’s, for He lets fall
Justice and love unto us all.
They, who withhold a creature’s right
Then boast of higher power and mind; 
Will such be guiltless in his sight
Who in His image made mankind?
That time is passing; through His grace
Smiles shall light up the abject face,
And humble lives in low estate,
Through faithfulness shall be made great.
O, Soul, if thou hast found and known
The gift He gavest for thine own,
Use it, and take back free from sin, 
The gem He placed, thy life within.


THE NATAL DAY.
ELLIS R. SHIPP.

Oh! for glimpse through Heaven’s portal,
Oh! for words and thoughts immortal,
And for inspiration’s glory
To portray that old sweet story,
Of our Savior born of woman.
Who partook of passions human,
Yet was he the incarnation,
Sent for mortal man’s salvation!

Who can sense a love like Father’s?
Who could give His son for others, 
Sent His “Best Beloved,” ’tis written,
To be persecuted—smitten!
By our unbelieving nation,
Who rejected Life’s Salvation.
Only minds divine can fathom
Depths of such unselfish passion!
Yet He sent Him on this mission—
Though He knew but few would listen.
First the Saintly John as presage 
Of this wondrous holy message,
Crying with unbroken sentence
To the world, Faith and Repentance,
Then Baptism by immersion,
And the Holy Ghost’s reception.

In the Heavens ’twas predestined,
That a spirit be commissioned


Here to take an earthly body; 
With surroundings dark and cloudy
With environments of mortals—
Though he came from Heaven’s portals.
That this marvelous conception
Prove God’s plan for man’s redemption.
But this message from high Heaven
To the world sublimely given,
Was rejected, and the Savior!
Treated as a gross deceiver.
And they crucified their Master!
Bringing darkness and disaster,
Ah! no wonder, nations languish
Here for ages in their anguish.

’Twas but prophets, seers and sages,
Who for long, eventful ages,
Could believe the restoration
Of this Gospel’s dispensation.
But ’tis here. Rejoice ye nations!
Here the boon of your Salvation,
Beaming in its pristine glory
With its precepts wise and hoarv.
 
Then awake the world from sleeping
Calm all fears and solemn weeping,
Let all creeds and tongues and peoples
Now proclaim it from their steeples,
That the pure and olden Gospel,
Taught by Christ and His Apostles,
Is restored in its perfection,
To mankind, for their redemption.

Now, while Christendom rejoices,
Let all blend their grateful voices, 
All the world in one grand union,
On Christ’s Birthday hold communion.
Sacred truth is now appealing
To each inmost soul-revealing,
Cause of praise and true thanksgiving, 
That the Gospel still is living.


AT CHRISTMAS TIME.
		SELECTED.
A moment since, as bell to answering bell
	In twelve clear notes spelt slowly Christmas
		Day,
I was alone. Then, whence I cannot tell,
	She came, calm-eyed and gowned in ashen gray
I watched her slender hand swing wide the door
	And saw her thread the intervening gloom;
The air she stirred upon its bosom bore
	A breath of indefinable perfume!
Then, standing there beneath the mistletoe.
	She beckoned me, and, rising at the sign,
I went, as lovers to their ladies go,
	And touched the lips of Memory with mine!
A shadow kiss it was, but in its train
	Thronged all subservient shadows of the years.
She whispered, and the past was mine again.
	In motley mantled of its smiles and tears;
Some magic phial she opened, and there rose
	Faint, airy arabesques of other times,
And age’s story through its solemn prose
	Rang with youth’s gaily interrippling rhymes!
While at the sluggish pulse of age there thrilled 
	A glow as of some unimagined wine,
The fire with half forgotten faces filled;—
	I touched the lips of Memory with mine!

Beneath another mistletoe than this,
	A little lad—with what pure lips, ah me!—
Pledged boyish troth, and in that eager kiss
	Life’s fingers first touched love’s minor key! 
I had forgotten how he used to stand,
	Slender and straight his little mates among,
Till Memory touched with her magician hand
	These blinded eyes of age and made them
		young!
But Spring, that knew no sorrow, with the flame
	Of faith’s white taper blazing on its shrine,
Vanished among the embers as it came:—
	I touched the lips of Memory with mine!

And then a man with steadfast eyes aglow
	With purpose and perception newly born,
Plighted man’s faith beneath the mistletoe,
	Such faith as falters not when it is sworn.
I knew him for the one that I had been


And that no spell can make me evermore,
Half way the rooms of love and life between,
	With eager hand upon the yieldingdoor.
So Summer on the fabric of my dream
	An instant in the embers seemed to shine,
Then faded in the fullness of its gleam:—
	I touched the lips of Memory with mine!

The vision changed. The mistletoe at last,
	Hung o’er the zenith of my phantom life;
Midst little crowding faces from the past,
	Stood one who smiled, and one who whispered
		“Wife!”
For thus I was and thus, alas, were they
	Whose eyes an instant laughed into my own:
But, as I leaned anear to bid them stay,
Grew dim, and so once more was I alone!
With childish voices echoant again,
	Ripe Autumn sped, like bubbles on her wine,
And, as the embers grayed and gloomed, in vain
	I sought the lips of Memory with mine!

A moment turned she, and, with clouded eyes,
	Sought mine across the ever deepening gloom,
And then as smoke against the darkness dies,
	I saw her pass in silence from the room.
Ah, fire of life, how swiftly then you downed
	To ashes of what was, and is no more;
As if that she, calm-eyed and ashen-gowned,
	Had been but shifting moonlight on the floor!
Old—old—and Winter, withered, wan and white,
	Had come to close the seasons’ laughing line;—
Yet, ere the embers died to dark, tonight
	I touched the lips of Memory with mine!
				GUY WETMORE CARRYL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A HAPPY AFTERNOON.
	Sister Johanna Nystrom, of the Twen-
tieth Ward, of this city, gave a delightful
dinner party to the aged and infirm widows
of the ward, on Thursday, November 21
1901.
	The day chosen by Sister Nystrom for
the occasion was the fifty-seventh anniver-
sary of her departed husband.
	The presidency of the Relief Society of
the ward, being in attendance, by request
of the hostess, took charge of the social
part of the entertainment. Twenty-three
guests were present, while a few who had
been invited were absent on account of
illness.
	Some of the favorite songs of Zion were
sung, prayer was offered and earnest heart-
felt testimonies were borne by each of the
sisters in turn, telling of many touching
experiences, and how the blessings of the
Lord follow those who trust, and strive
to serve Him.
	Portions of the time were also filled in
with pleasant conversation, and several
interesting recitations were given.
	The oldest one present was Sister Adam-
son, who is in her eighty fifth year.
	At five o’clock the company sat down to a
fine, old-fashioned dinner, a “regular
Thanksgiving dinner,” as the youngest
lady of the party expressed it. A leading
feature of the repast was fat, tender, home
raised chicken, cooked as “mother used to
do it.” And there was an abundant
variety of viands, all following harmon-
iously in the same sensible, healthful line.
	After dinner the impromptu program
was continued. Speeches, recitations and
singing were again called for, and to every
call a cordial response was cheerfully given.
Many grateful thanks and prayers for con-
tinued blessings were warmly expressed to
Sister Nystrom for her generous hospital-
ity, and pleasing memories of Brother
Nystrom’s kindness to the poor during his
lifetime were related by several of the
guests.
	At an early hour the party closed with
benediction and the ladies went home with
feelings of satisfaction and peace not soon
to be forgotten.
		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Minutes of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly meeting,
held October 26, 1901, in the Fourteenth
Ward Hall, Counselor E. J. Stevenson
presiding.
	Opened by singing, “Glorious things
are sung of Zion.” Prayer by H. A.
Badger. Singing, “Now let us rejoice.”
Minutes read and approved.
	Counselor Stevenson read part of the
hymn, “Now let us rejoice,” and made re-
marks on the same. Urged all to live
according to the lessons taught therein.
Believed we would have faith enough to
keep the commandments of God if we live
for them. Let us live so that we can have
a claim upon the Lord. Spoke of the faith
of Sister Zina D. H Young. Bore a testi-
mony of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said Satan has
great power, thought we should throw safe-
guards around our young people. Loved
those who serve the Lord. Though it
might make some jealousy, felt to sustain
the authorities Felt we had prophetesses
among us. and she had been healed by
them.
	Sister Brown said we come to meeting to
get food for the soul. Was thankful she
knew where to go to get comfort for her
soul, and was thankful for the love that
exists among the sisters.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon felt we ought to
lift up our hearts for one another that the
speakers may be inspired of the Lord to
give us those things that may increase our
faith and love for one another. Cautioned
all to guard their tongues against injuring
one another. Said she had visited the
Relief Society in Kansas and also visited
Nauvoo. Spoke of the good the Relief.
Society are doing there, and how they are
appreciated by the missionaries. Felt we
should comfort each other; love and kind-
ness is the duty of every one. Draw our
children to us, and let us try to improve in
doing good every day. Let those around
us see exemplary women in us.
	Sister Brazier bore a testimony of the
Gospel and Joseph Smith.
	Sister Keddington bore a testimony and
thanked the Lord for the truth.
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn,
assisted by the congregation, and also bore
her testimony.
	Sister Webb felt we should be thankful
for the blessing the Gospel brings us. We
must labor for these blessings or we cannot
get them, our example goes farther than
anything else. How thankful we ought to
be that we know we have a Father in
heaven who hears and answers our prayers.
Spoke of Temple work, and said remember
our covenants and be faithful to them.
	Sister Mary L. Morris felt to bless the
sisters.
	Sister F. Smith said it was fifty years since
she joined the Church. She was the first
of her family, but there were two hundred
belonging now. She had been a counselor
in Relief Society work thirty years.
	Congregation sang “How firm a found-
ation.”
	Sister Harvey felt the Spirit of God was
present. Knew this was the true Church
of God, realized the work was progressing.
	Sister J. S. Woolley spoke of the quali-
fications of a mother.
	Sister Harvey spoke of President A. H.
Lund as being loved in his own home,
Ephraim.
	Sister Phelps said we do not comprehend

[Column 2]
our blessings. We are like children. It is
plain to see these are the last days and the
Lord is preparing His children to receive
Him. Said much will be performed before
that day.
	Sister Wright did not know where to
begin to thank the Lord for her blessings.
Spoke of the love she had for Brother
Lund. Knew the Lord inspired His ser-
vants.
	Sister Irvine spoke of the great work
being done by the Y. L. M. I. A., referred
to Brother Grant’s work in Japan, and of
his daughter Lucy being called to Colorado
on a mission. Thought we as mothers
were responsible for our children’s charact-
ers. Let us speak of the good in one
another, never allow slander in our pres-
ence.
	Sister H. A. Badger felt to thank the
Lord for her blessings. Was strengthened
by attending her meetings; felt we should
visit the aged.
	Sister Stevenson said President Kimball
said time would be so shortened it would
not be half long enough in the last days.
Admonished the mothers to be watchful of
their children, mothers do not appreciate
their mission in having the sons and
daughters of God. Influence by example
and read Sec 27, Doctrine and Covenants.
Said it was promised the Saints in Big
Horn county that if in each home they
would sing a hymn, read a chapter and
offer prayer each day their children would
never go astray.
	Adjourned for four weeks. Singing,
Doxology. Benediction, Sister Mary P.
Silver.
			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


RESOLUTIONS OF SYMPATHY
		TO AUNT ZINA.

Resolutions of respect to the memory of our
	greatly beloved sister, Zina D. H. Young,
	by the officers and members of the Relief
	Society of the Baker Ward, Oregon.

	Inasmuch as our Heavenly Father has deemed
it prudent to summon from our midst to a heaven-
ly and exalted sphere our beloved sister and wise
counselor, Zina D. H. Young. President of the
Relief Society in all the world, whose congenial
influence and motherly counsel have stimulated so
many thousands to nobler acts, to purer thoughts
to a greater determination to be valiant workers
in our Father’s kingdom. Therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, her co-laborers in this great
work of love, express our appreciation of her
counsel, her example and her love of the divine
which were manifested so prominently in all her
labors that we have enjoyed by our association
with her.
	And by these resolutions we testify of her exem-
plary life, her devotion to truth, her lovable and
tender nature and her integrity to every trust re-
posed in her. Truly the world has been made
better by the presence of such a noble spirit as
“Aunt Zina,” and the good effects of her labors
even in this sphere, are not yet ended, for as the
poet truly said, “While the mortal dust is buried
in the tomb, the character still walks the earth.”
	So it is with this noble character. She will con-
tinue to live in our memories.
	May we emulate her noble example and by the
same sweet spirit she possessed, live worthy to
meet her again in holy companionship. And be
it further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed upon
our society records and a copy be sent to the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
	Adopted at a meeting of the Relief Society of
the Baker Ward, Union Stake of Zion, Septem-
ber 19, 1901.
				MARY B. EARDLEY,
				JOSEPHINE STOKER,
							Committee.


Miss Sorabji, a Parsee woman, lately
gave a talk upon India at Smith College.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SARAH E. CARMICHAEL.
A REQUIEM FOR THE DEPARTED UTAH POETESS
A requiem for the dead—
	The dead of many years!
Her brilliant spirit faltered, failed and fled,
	To “ashes” and unavailing tears.

The gifted singer faded.
	Her soul was hushed to silence here.
Too tense the strain for earthly casket, jaded,
	A broken lyre, those strings that thrilled our
		ear.

One of the grand immortals—
	Peers were but few and they unknown:
Her genius opened wide those shining portals
	Forever barred save to the touch they own.

There dwell the spirit singers,
	Whose songs and music were of old.
To earth they came with well-trained vibrant
		fingers,
	“Lest we forget” and perish by earth’s cold.

When silent dead, or dying
	’Mid chill of circumstances testing,
That inspiration all uncrushed is trying
	Wherever it may be, for final resting.

The dear one now—the sainted,
	Will sing again with gift supernal, 
Forgetting that on earth she ever fainted
	Among the poet singers crowned eternal!
					HENRY W. NAISBITT.


NINETEEN ONE.

Our dear old Nineteen One, is flitting surely on.
With noiseless pinions, to the infinite beyond!
The purest joys and hopes deep sorrows, pains
	and fears
Have joined the thronging scenes, of other by-
	gone years.

Ere the silent curtain falls on the pulseless year,
I’d send just one more token, beloved friends to
	cheer,
A sweet and tender message from a loving heart,
With hope of a reunion, never more to part.

Now ere the old years’ bell, shall toll the parting
	knell,
I’d breath most fervent pray’rs, for those I love so
	well,
And crave the kind protection of Father’s potent
	arm,
Forever to enclasp them—shield them from all
	harm.

As the boundless ocean in Times eternal round,
Shall strew the pearls of life upon the sandy
	ground,
May eager hearts and hands, encompass all that’s
	good;
Faith, happiness and truth, be taken at the flood.

Oh now good bye! Farewell! thou surely dying
	year!
Ah! thou hath brought to us many a bitter tear—
The roses too, have bloomed, along our wander-
	ing way—
Sweet flowers of faith and love to brighten ev’ry
	day.

E’en yet, old year, we hold thee still in fond em-
	brace.
Reluctantly we turn new paths, and seem to
	trace,
Now as the new one follows closely in thy wake—
Speak kindly words for us, for old companion’s
	sake.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.


Mrs. Livermore at the last meeting of
the Massachusetts Woman’s Suffrage
Association spoke emphatically on the duty
of women to keep their engagements, and
not to let themselves be appointed on a com-
mittee to do something and then neglect to
do it. “Make yourself responsible for one
thing, and then do it if you die for it,” she
said. “I did not want to come today, (it
was a very inclement afternoon) I was fol-
lowed to the door of my house with prophe-
cies of pneumonia, but I was advertized to
speak and I am here. If I have any repu-
tation, it is for keeping my promises.”


[Column 1]
EMMA HALE SMITH.
	Among the great and noble minded women
who have been connected with our Church is
Emma Smith, first wife of the Prophet
Joseph Smith.
	She was born near the year 1803, in
Susquehanna Co., Penn. She grew up to
be a good, virtuous, high-minded girl.
When but a young woman, she met the
Prophet, who, in 1825, while he was
working for a man by the name of Stoal,
came to board with her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Isaac Hale. The Prophet and this
very worthy young woman became very
much attached to each other, and Mr. Hale
was asked to give his consent to their mar-
riage, but he objected to their union be-
cause he was prosperous while the Smith
family had lost all their property.
	Sister Emma was tall and stately, and
was what might be termed a magnificent
looking woman. It was during the last
year of Joseph’s waiting for the plates be-
fore he and Emma were married. They
were married January, 18, 1827, by Squire
Tarbill, at that gentleman’s residence,
South Bainbridge, New York.
	Immediately after their marriage Joseph
left the employ of Mr. Stoal and returned
to his parent’s home at Manchester, New
York State, taking with him a beautiful
bride. During the succeeding summer he
worked to obtain means for his family and
his great mission, for it was near the time
for the promise which had been made to
him to be fulfilled.
	It was on September 22, 1827, that
Joseph Smith received the plates at the
“Hill Cumorah,” from the angel Moroni.
The angel was at his side and bade him
stretch forth his hand and take these
precious records from their long hiding
place. As he lifted them to the surface he
was thrilled with divine joy. The angel
after giving him instructions left him.
	Persecutions were now heaped upon him,
men were lurking by his pathway to take
his life and obtain the plates. Their
plans were always thwarted, but the peace
and quiet that was needed to perform the
labor of translating the plates was kept
from him, so he decided to go to the home
of Emma’s parents in Pennsylvania, where
he might perform his heaven-appointed
work.
	While at the home of her parents in the
month of July, 1828, a son was born to
them, but the babe died after a brief time,
leaving the mother at death’s door. Four
sons were afterwards born to them, their
names being Joseph, Frederick, Alexander
and David, Julia being an adopted
daughter.
	At this the Prophet was compelled to
give his time up to toil for the needs of his
household, and he went forth to labor,
humbly and uncomplainingly. As his
manual labor was ended each day he would
devote his evenings to the work of trans-
lating, his young wife aiding him by writ-
ing at his dictation.
	In July, 1830, in Susquehanna Co.,
Penn., the Lord gave Emma a revelation
through the Prophet. It is recorded in the
Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 25, and in
accordance with this revelation she com-
piled the first Latter-day Saints hymn
book.
	When the Prophet obeyed the principle
of plural marriage, Emma gave her hus-
band four wives. The four women lived

[Column 2]
in the Mansion House at Nauvoo with
Emma.
	May 6, 1842, an attempt was made to
assassinate L. W. Boggs, Governor of
Missouri. Orrin P. Rockwell and Joseph
Smith were charged with the crime and
arrested, but were afterwards given their
liberty. The Prophet was now hiding
from his enemies and Emma had declared
her willingness to share her husband’s
exile As this plan of exile was abandoned
she offered to visit Governor Carlin, of Ill.,
and lay before him Joseph’s case. In
answer to this proposition the Prophet
wrote to her telling her not to go to the
Governor as he was no friend to the Saints,
but she might write to him. With this
permission to write Emma addressed a
dignified communication to the Governor,
in which she called upon him by virtue of
his position as an officer, and by every
sense of manliness to spare Joseph and
the Saints in Nauvoo from unjust persecu-
tion This letter alone is sufficient to
demonstrate that Emma was a woman of
superior ability and that she had an exal-
ted appreciation and love for her husband.
	Sister Emma Smith was a good, kind,
loving woman, and respected her husband.
She was very kind to the Saints, always
trying to comfort the sick and afflicted, and
clothe the poor.
	Sister Emma’s home was indeed a home
at all times for the unfortunate Saints.
	Although the Prophet Joseph obeyed the
commandment of the Lord in regard to
plural marriage and took a number of
wives after his first love, Emma, he still
loved her with an undying love, as is
shown in the following speech when one of
his wives spoke to him in a complaining
manner of Emma. The Prophet turned to
her and said “If you desire my love you
must never speak evil of Emma.”
	After the death of Joseph Smith the
Prophet, Emma married a Mr. Bidamon
and died in Nauvoo, Ill., April 30, 1879.
			LUCY M. WRIGHT.


RESOLUTION. 
	Adopted by the National Council of Women
at the Triennial held in Buffalo, Septem-
ber, 1901.

	Resolution on the death of Mrs. Zina D. 
H. Young:
	Resolved, that the National Council of 
Women recognizes in the death of Mrs. Zina
D. Young, President of the Relief Corps, a 
loss that will be severely felt by the Society 
over which she so long and acceptably pre-
sided. 
	The Council extends to the Relief Society
an expression of its tender sympathy in its
bereavement, together with the hope that 
the Society may in the crisis be guided to the 
election of a successor, under whose leader-
ship its work may be not only continued but
extended.
	The Council recognizes in the Relief 
Society one of its most loyal members, and 
realizes that to Mrs. Young’s broad views
the relationship of the W. R S. to the N. 
C. of W. is largely due.


Miss Palit, a native of Hindu, stood at
the head of B. A. Candidates for degrees at
Calcutta University this year in a list of a
thousand.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, CHRISTMAS NUMBER.


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.
	This year has been one of thrilling
events and must occasion some serious reflec-
tions, and now as it draws towards its
close, and the Holiday time comes near,
we cannot but take a retrospective view of
the past, and recall what this first year of
the new century has brought about. To
attempt giving it in detail would fill
volumes; even here in Utah many im-
portant things have taken place, and one
may say, too, that much has been accom-
plished in many directions.
	This is the time of the year when one
wishes to look upon the bright side of
things and take a cheerful view of the pres-
ent, knowing that a kind Providence has
vouchsafed many blessings to us who
dwell here in these peaceful vales, as
well as all mankind, and we should not be
unmindful of each other, and our children
ought to have a realizing sense of the
gratitude they owe to their Heavenly 
Father for all His goodness, and that we
are permitted to enjoy such a multiplicity
of the good things of this life; and if there
are those who are in sorrow or in want,
they should be sought out and comforted
and made happy, as far as human aid can
reach in soothing their afflictions or grief.
	The golden rule is always a guide for the
Saints to follow, to do to others as we
would have them do unto us, will bring
more true happiness than any other course
of action.
	Christmas is generally given up almost
wholly to the children, and they are the
ones to receive all the benefits or gifts
Santa Claus may or can bring. They dream
of him for weeks beforehand, and long im-
patiently for the time to come.
	We look on and rejoice to see so much
happiness; and yet some of us at least can-
not help feeling that in this day and age
many of the customs and practices observed
are tending towards selfishness and extrava-
gance. If we talk about it, it is not always
acceptable, and the saying, “Times have
changed,” is alluded to, and “Do let the
children enjoy themselves once a year; there
will be sober realities enough later on,”
and such like sayings. And so we join in
the merriment of the little people, and let
them believe in the Santa Claus myth often
instead of letting them know the truth of
the origin of the day, and what it means to
the world in which we live.
	It is well, perhaps, that there is a time
set apart, (call it by what name you will)

[Column 2]
in which people feel they should remember
one another, or it may be the selfishness
that has become so apparent in the latter
times might get the upper hand of man-
kind altogether. And, therefore, one can-
not help thinking Christmas and holiday
week a blessing, even though some
excesses or extravagances are indulged in,
or some people go to extremes in one way
or another.
	Parents are anxious to make the children
happy, and the older children at least,
should be just as desirous of contributing to
the joy of the parents. To be loving,
obedient and grateful towards those who
are older or in any way the benefactors, and
especially to parents, is far more acceptable
and happifying than gifts. The gift of
love is the greatest of all, and where there
is generous love, gifts are of comparatively
little consequence. Gentle words and
kindly acts, a smiling countenance and a
desire to make others happy by sweetness
and gracious manner, are far better in the
young people than the choicest gifts with-
out these beautiful manifestations of
nobility of soul.
	Yet the world lauds those who can give
of their wealth, and thinks little of those
who have only kindness and heavenly
charity to bestow.
	Yet we must not rail against the world or
abuse the people, for, after all, it is a pretty
good world. 
	Long years ago one of the greatest and
grandest of men wrote in an album this
sentiment: “Notwithstanding all that is
said about it, this is a grand old world.”
	So let us make the best of it we can each
of us, and help to create happiness and
every other possible good, and be grateful
for all blessings and benefits; and teach it to
the children, everybody’s children, as oppor-
tunity presents.
	Ingratitude is the sister and handmaid of
pride; on the contrary gratitude is pleasing
in the sight of God, and is akin to humility,
which is a stranger to pride. When one is
grateful it is in itself a compensation that is
worth possessing; worth striving for—it
banishes selfishness. Do we appreciate as
we should the blessings of our daily lives?
and above all are we grateful for all the
benefits and gifts of God? Do we teach
these things as we should? Are we not all
lacking in this respect? It is to Him we
owe all! Every hour we should devote to
His service, not only on occasions, but con-
secrate all our lives, our talents to Him, and
the work He has established for the redemp-
tion of the human race.
	Light has come into the world and the
Saints who have seen and known of it should
not be slow to spread the glad tidings of
great joy revealed in this day and age of the
world, and the children of the Latter-day
Saints have double reason to rejoice—and
yet how few comparatively, think of these
unmeasured blessings.
	A grand dinner and amusements are the
order of the day at Christmas time, all good
in their place when sweetened with gratitude.
	The family gatherings during the holidays
are happy occasions, and especially if devoted
to kindly converse, and the social enjoyment
that strengthens the ties of relationship, and
binds closer together the hearts and souls of
kindred and friends. One needs these way-
side rests on the toilsome journey of life,
and therefore one need be grateful for the
holiday time, if the work is not, or even if it
is harder, than at other times. For the

[Column 3]
mother it very often is, and yet she may have
recompense in the joy she gives to her
household and the comfort to her own
heart. And so one may say again with the
poet:

	“Bring in great logs and let them lie,
	To make a solid core of heat.
	Be cheerful-minded, talk and treat.”
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	“We keep the day with festal cheer.”

	In this day of coal and gas and electricity
one does not see so much the open fire of
great logs, or of pine knots, and sometimes
older people think half the pleasure is lost in
sitting in heated rooms unable to look at the
open fireplace, that always seemed so bright
and cheerful and has so many memories con-
nected with it, that are dear to the heart.
The poet of today will scarcely be able to
sing of the hearthstone round which the
family gather at eventide to chat and sing.
“Ring out the old, ring in the new,” is
applicable in many ways nowadays, but if
only the conditions change for the better, one
should not regret the innovations that are
made upon old-fashioned methods and ways
of living.
	May this be a happy Christmas, with peace
and goodwill and plenty for all—that the
hearts of the poor may be made glad, that
there may be no suffering for food or raiment
in this goodly land, and faith and confidence
may increase among the Saints, and may
that good fellowship which manifests itself in
deeds of benevolence abound and the charity
which is long-suffering and kind, and faith
and love grow stronger until each one can love
his neighbor as himself according to the words
of the blessed Savior whose birth men and
women profess to celebrate.


WEDDING ANNIVERSARY.
	Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Jenson kept their
fifteenth wedding anniversary in a very
sociable and pleasant way by inviting a few
of their friends to dinner on the 10th of
December, at their residence in the Seven-
teenth Ward. About fifty people were
entertained at table, President Joseph F.
Smith and wife seated at the head and near
them Pres. A. H. Lund and Pres. B. W.
Smith, next Mrs. E. B. Wells and opposite
Mr. and Mrs. J. McDonald. There were
too many guests to mention by name, but of
those who added greatly to the pleasure and
enjoyment of the company assembled were
Mr. George Margetts, with his funny songs,
and in loftier strains Mrs. Christina and Miss
Judith Anderson and the Misses Jenson.
	Brother Jenson in his travels around the
world few years ago collected and brought
home many curiosities illustrative of
countries where he traveled that are very
interesting and with which his guests are
always highly entertained. The evening
was very enjoyable.


BIRTHDAY BANQUET.
	The birthday of Mrs. Esther Bunnell, one
of the veteran Mothers in Israel, was cele-
brated on Monday, December 16, with a
sumptuous banquet arranged in her honor by
her daughters and other members of her
family. Mrs. Bunnell herself looked the
veritable queen, and she was toasted by one
or two of the party as Queen Esther. She
wore a dainty cap of the purest white lace
trimmed with ribbon, and her face shone
beautifully underneath the dainty lace ruffes.
	The party was given in Dr. Romania B.
Pratt’s rooms in the Constitution Building


The table was decorated with carnations and 
ferns and the fine linen and handsome china
and luxurious repast made a goodly and
inviting appearance. A large fruit cake
frosted and ornamented, which told in figures
the age of the reverend lady, adorned
the centre of the table. At the head of the
table the venerable lady herself was seated
and at her right her daughter, Romania,
(the famous woman doctor) and at her left
her daughter Josephine, (Mrs. Hardy)
grandsons and granddaughters-in-law, grand-
daughters and husbands, and one or two
guests, including President C. W. Penrose,
editor Deseret News, Mrs. Elizabeth Pen-
rose and the writer.
	Mrs. Bunnell has now reached her eighty-
seventh anniversary and is indeed a remark-
ably well preserved woman. The writer ex-
tends to her not only the usual compliments
of the season, but every good wish and
blessing she can possible desire in this life
and joys innumerable in the celestial world,
surrounded with her loved ones, and she de-
serves it all, for her life work and sacrifices
have entitled her to eternal happiness.
	What could be more beautiful than such a
life and at its close calmness and contentment?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We are proud to acknowledge and with
gratitude, the gift of a new book just from
the press, “Rhymlets In Many Moods,” by
one of our Utah poets. Brother H. W.
Naisbitt, who only recently returned from a
mission. Brother Naisbitt has been well
known to the people here as one of our very
best writers, and we sincerely congratulate
him on the appearance of his book just at
Xmas time, hoping for him a financial suc-
cess. “The Home Circle Series” he has
designated as a sub title should give it pres-
tige with our home lovers, and we trust the
book will find its way into every home-circle
in Utah. We have not yet had time to
examine its contents but will give an opinion
upon the subject later. Meantime we can
conscientiously recommend it knowing as
we do the ability of the author and his
sterling qualities of mind and heart.
	The Daughters of the Revolution cele-
brated the anniversary of the Boston tea
party at the home of Mrs. W. J. Beatie,
whose parlors were handsomely decorated
for the occasion. A fine engraving of Gen.
Washington occupied a conspicuous place,
draped with the stars and stripes. Mrs. 
Clarissa S. Williams, the Regent, was present
again after her serious illness and presided
with her usual dignity. Some business was
attended to and Mrs. Mary A. H. Cannon’s
paper was read, the subject being the close
of the war and some of the men who
were most famous in establishing the new
government, and brief mention of the great
American Tea Party and the visits of mem-
bers to the old South Church, etc. Refresh-
ments were Dutch and the china used also
the old Dutch ware. A very large and
handsomely ornamented fruit cake was given
by Mrs. Eliza Titcomb and was cut and
served to the guests, also candies after the
substantial Dutch repast.	It was one of the
most pleasant afternoons the society has en-
joyed. Two distinguished guests were pres-
ent by invitation, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith
and Mrs. Sarah Jenne Canoon.


Chauncey M. Depew gives the women
credit for a large share in the defeat of
Tammany.


[Column 1]
EMMA LUCY GATES.
	The good and noble women who read
this precious little messenger the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT, are no doubt interested in the
little girl who has pleased people in Utah
so much in the last month by her singing
	The mothers in Israel would not ask
what can she sing, who was her teacher,
nor what is to be her future professional
career? but they would gather about her
and inquire, “My dear, do you say your
prayers? Are you trying to live your
religion?”
	Little Lulu, as she is familiarly called
by those who love her, was born in St.
George in 1880, being the oldest child of
Jacob F. and Susa Young Gates.  Her
grandfather on her father’s side, Elder
Jacob Gates, is an historical figure in early
Church history. He was one of the old
Puritan stock, and was of Zion’s camp,
and was a trusted friend of the Prophet
Joseph, and later the Prophet Brigham
He was since president for some years of
the first seven Presidents of Seventies, and
filled many important public trusts. He
was a good singer and when he was eighty
years old his clear old voice made sweet
music out of “Mrs Lofty had a carriage,
none had I.” His third wife, Emma
Farsberry, is a sweet little English
woman of good breeding, and she, too, was an
excellent singer, and sang in the “Leicester
Choir,” and she is, too, like her husband,
a faithful Latter-day Saint. On the
maternal side President Brigham Young is
the grandparent, and his wife, Lucy
Bigelow Young, is one of the greatest and
humblest women who ever tabernacled in
the flesh.
	Lulu, then, had her full right in being
well born Her father was a born musician
who played as a boy, everything from a
Jew’s harp to a drum. He organized a
boys’ band when he was ten years old, he
playing the lead cornet. No place on earth
has so much native musical talent as Utah,
and it is only opportunity which is lacking
to bring out this wealth of talent. Lucy’s
mother inherited the musical gifts belong-
ing to the Young family, and could play
the piano as soon as she could read. She
was the founder of the Musical De-
partment in the Brigham Young Ac-
ademy in 1878; but with other cares,
like many young mothers, she dropped her
active musical work.
	The little girl came to Provo with her
parents in 1882 and in 1885 went to the
Sandwich Islands on a four years’ mission
with them.
	When Lulu was three months old, Sisters
Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. H. Young
paid a visit to St. George and while there
they gave the babe a beautiful blessing.
This was treasured by the mother and re-
peated to the child as she grew in years
and understanding.
	When on the Sandwich Islands mission,
a deep and abiding friendship was formed
between President Joseph F Smith and
wife, Julina, and the family of Brother
Jacob F. Gates. After the sudden death of
Lulu’s two brothers on this mission, Lulu
seemed stricken with the same disease; all
night long President Smith and the parents
hung over the little girl administering and
giving her what simple remedies were
obtainable. And all night long as these
strong men would falter in their faith, and
ask each other with eye or lip, “Must she,
too, go?” the child would look up with

[Column 2]
firm conviction and say, “I’m not going to
die, papa; don’t you remember Aunt Eliza
Snow promised me I should grow up and
be a mother in Israel?” And her faith pre-
vailed.
	She has always been musical; at two
years old she sang many little songs and
soon found the piano keys to match the
time. At four she had found the chords
for every key on the piano. She was taken
to the Sandwich Islands at this age and
there picked up guitar playing. She sang,
played and danced for Queen Kapiolani,
when that lady visited Laie and her par-
ents were invited to bring her to the
Palace. But they felt then and after to
shrink from pushing the child into public
notice, both for her sake and their own.
Children are ruined too often, mentally
and physically, by over-stimulation
	Many people wonder today how it is
that this girl has sprung into such sudden
public notice; it is because her wise parents
knew that maturity is the only safe time to
throw genius out into public life. They
knew she was gifted, and she and they
have made many sacrifices to develop
those gifts. Admiration is hard enough to
bear when the character is fully formed.
	With this thought fully in mind, the
little girl was kept quietly at home, and
most carefully taught the art of dress-
making and housekeeping. She is as
gifted with the needle and with the cook-
stove as she is with voice or piano keys.
	Above all things her parents have
struggled to teach her and all their children
to love the Gospel and its every principle;
not one principle, whether it be in active
practice or not, has been neglected in her
training. True, she has some faults,
which even the best of our girls must
inherit, but she loves the Lord and tries to
serve Him.
	When her married sister, Mrs. Leah E.
Widtsoe went to Germany in 1897, she
begged the parents to allow Lulu to
accompany her that she might carry for-
ward her musical education. Lulu had
good music teachers. Her first teacher,
and she was a most excellent one, was a
Provo Mormon girl, Mrs. Lillie Roberts
De Lorey. A sound musical foundation
was thus laid, and while under Mrs. De
Lorey, at thirteen years of age, Lulu took
the prize for instrumental music in the
first great Salt Lake Eisteddfod in 1893.
Her next teacher was Professor J. J.
McClellan, who was likewise a most
superior teacher and musician. It was
from him that she went away to Germany
with Brother and Sister Widstoe.
	She could always sing, too, she sang the
scale before she was two years old; but she
was not encouraged to tax her voice, as
she was a frail child and health and poise
were the objects sought for by her parents
for this nervous and high-strung child of
theirs. She was kept away from giddy
pleasures, and early hours and long sleeps
were the rule. No corset was ever upon
her form, and no tea nor coffee were ever
used in the house.
	In all their plans none thought of public
life for this little Mormon girl. To culti-
vate her talents, and then to use them at
home to comfort and delight her people,
these were the ambitions and aims of all.
	After she had been in Europe for one
year it became necessary for her to leave
her sister, who was about to travel. What
could be done?


In this crisis her grandmother, Lucy B.
Young, whose generous financial assistance
had made it possible for the girl to go in
the first place, offered to go over and stay
as long as was necessary.
	Sister Young went with the famous party
of women who attended the International
Council of Women in London, and here
Lulu came from Germany to greet both
her grandmother and her mother and
cousin, D. H. Y. McAllister. The Council
was a wonderful episode to all.
	After it was over Lulu and her mother
and her grandmother went to Berlin and
here Lulu was soon established in the
Royal Conservatory of Music.
	The girl always maintained that her
voice was her forte and not the piano, and
at last it was decided that she should
center her studies upon the voice.
	Before leaving Utah President George
Q. Cannon had given her a blessing in
which he promised her that she should
attain perfection in her art, and that her
teachers should indeed think she was gifted
of God.” How wonderfully that promise was
fulfilled, no one can tell so well as Lulu
herself.
	She was shown every kindness and
attention.  She was crowded ahead and
invited to join the King’s own choir; and
while with them she sang in the palace be-
fore the Kaiser and all the assembled
court.  No attention was lacking, yet the
girl felt that the German method of teach-
ing vocal music was ruining her soft and
sweet yet not heavy voice. So after [-]ast-
ing and prayer, her grandmother and she
decided that it would be best to leave the
school and her kind teacher who had been
so gracious to her.  It was a trial, for her
teacher never again acknowledged her.  But
she left.
	By the leading of a kind Providence she
was taken to the finest teacher in Berlin,
Mme. Blanche Corelli, a daughter of
Hermann, the Austrian predestigatuer,
and a famous Austrian Court singer, Rosa
Chiclloc.  This teacher soon developed an
ardent love for the girl, and devoted her-
self to her progress.  Surely her blessing
was fulfilled.  Lulu and her teacher worked
hard, so hard, but the reward was sweet.
For God did add his blessing.
	Lulu tells a dream which she had while
away, struggling, toiling, and knowing no
pleasure, but work, work.  Someday
may be she will write it for the EXPONENT.
What she would have done without her
dear, wise grandmother’s help and presence
no one can tell!
	She has come home at the bidding of her
parents as any good girl would.  And she
is now about to start out on a concert tour
for three months under the most famous
manager on earth, Major J. B. Pond.  But
her mother goes with her and so does the
counsel and blessing of President Joseph
F. Smith with all others interested.  She
does not go to win fame or money; yet she
may have both. But all the future as well
as the past is with that kind Father who
has sent her here to do a certain work as
He has sent all of us.
	Dear sisters, she will need your faith
and prayers and so will her anxious
mother; will you give them without money,
without price?
				A FRIEND


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Marie Correlli, the authoress, has started
a movement to organize Shakespeare clubs
over the entire world.


[Column 1]
		  GRANITE STAKE.

	The sixth quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of the Granite Stake of Zion
was held at Big Cottonwood, Tuesday,
November 12, 1901, President Emma S.
Woodruff presiding.
	The choir and congregation sang “Praise
to the man.” The opening prayer was
offered by President Emily W. Stevenson.
Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning."
	There were present of the General Relief
Society. President Bathsheba W. Smith,
Annie T. Hyde, her first Counselor, and
Emmeline B. Wells, secretary, President
M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt Lake Stake,
Sisters Mary Freeze and Helen W. Wood-
ruff, of the Y. L. M. I. A. Board, Sister
Margaret P. Young, Bishop S. A. Casto
and Elder William Taylor.
	The secretary called the roll, showing
all the Stake officers present and represen-
tatives from every ward except one. Min-
utes of morning session of previous confer-
ence read and approved.
	President Emma S. Woodruff kindly
welcomed the sisters and brethren and felt
blest to have so many of the leading sisters
with us today. Called for verbal reports
from the wards.
	President Sarah B. Gibson reported
Sugar Ward; Counselor Mary Ellen Sper-
ry, Farmers Ward; President Petriua Jen-
son, Forest Dale; President Mary B.
Hamilton, Mill Creek; Secretary Amelia
King, East Mill Creek; President Emily
W. Stevenson, Big Cottonwood; President
Mary Rawlins, South Cottonwood.
	Most of these sisters spoke of the increase
of membership in their respective branches,
their desire to store grain, aiding of the
missionaries and the union that existed
among them.
	President M. Isabella Horne: “My dear
brothers and sisters, I am very happy this
morning as I feel that I am among my
children and that I am their mother. I
know you have such a good president. I
have known her for many years. I know
her to be a steadfast and energetic woman.
We are laying up treasures in heaven, for
this is a charity work, clothing the naked,
feeding the poor, comforting and caring for
the sick. I am sorry there are not more
identified in the Relief Society. The books
are to be opened, and we are to be judged
out of the books; also the tithing books, we
should have our names enrolled therein. I
am thankful today for the events that are
transpiring. I am thankful that I have
lived to see President Joseph F. Smith
President of this Church. I feel that the
times need such a vigorous character. To-
morrow will be his birthday, he will be
sixty-three years old.” She spoke of the
perilous times at the time of his birth, and
the hardships and privations that his
mother and the Saints had passed through.
“And now,” said she, “President Joseph
F. Smith is at the head of the Church,
where his uncle was.”
	President Emma S. Woodruff said: “Sis-
ters, we all feel that Sister Horne is our
mother.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith: “I am
pleased to meet the sisters here, also the
brethren. I am always glad to see them.”
Spoke of having been through the good
times and the bad, of the army when she
saw it coming upon the Saints. Felt
satisfied that they could not put down
Mormonism. Referred to the reports of

[Column 2]
the sisters, of the union among them.
“That is what I like to hear,” said Aunt
Bathsheba, “and the putting away of
jealousies and fault-finding is needed in
these days.” Spoke of having felt some-
what worried when President Snow passed
away without having organized the Relief
Society, soon after having a dream con-
cerning the Relief Society and seeing the
Prophet Joseph watching over them. This
satisfied her and she felt that the Prophet
would look after the Relief Society. Refered
to those words of the Prophet in regard to
the power, influence and growth of the
Relief Society. She urged the sisters to
be faithful and not go into bye and forbid-
den paths.
	President Emma W. Woodruff: “Sister
Smith said that she was glad to hear that
the sisters in the wards were so united. I
want to say that the sisters of the Stake
are also united and that I love the sisters
of Granite Stake.”
	“Sunshine in the Soul,” was sung with
feeling, by Miss Beatrice Crismon.
	Sister Helen Woodruff spoke of her
visit with Sister Mary A. Freeze to the
Granite Stake academy. Of the beautiful
spirit which prevailed in the school and
among the teachers and students. Of
the desire to take the counsel of their older
sisters and her love to hear these dear sis-
ters (Aunt Bathsheba and Sister Horne)
speak.
	Bishop S. A. Casto: “My dear sisters
and brethren, I have been pleased to hear
the reports, and especially to hear Sisters
Smith and Horne. I feel that they are our
mothers. I like to be with them and feel
their spirit. I pray the Lord to bless you
all. Amen.”
	Sister Mary Freeze said that she had a
desire to speak and testify of the recent
organization of the Relief Society
and Sister Bathsheba’s dream. Re-
ferred to the remarks of President Woodruff,
“that the eyes of the Prophet were over his
people,” and the words of President
Franklin D. Richards to the sisters, “How
thankful they ought to be that they could
be brought out from the worries and
anxieties of homes into these meetings to
partake of these heavenly influences.”
	Sister Elizabeth Boise: “I desire to
honor and fear God. Without His bless-
ings we could do nothing.” Felt pleased
to see the rising generation go forth and
gain a knowledge of the Gospel. Realized
that the Spirit of God was in our midst to-
day.
	President Emma S. Woodruff: “Sisters,
we wish to dismiss on time. I feel grate-
ful to the sisters for coming out to visit us.
This is their first mission out since their
organization, and I think we ought to re-
member and appreciate it. Sister Crismon’s
song so charmed me. She could not have
sung anything to suit me better.”
	President Emily W. Stevenson announ-
ced that they had provided dinner for all
present.
	After singing, “Guide us, O Thou great
Jehovah,” conference adjourned until two
p. m.
	Afternoon session, President Emma S.
Woodruff presiding. Opened with singing,
“For the strength of the hills.” Prayer
by President Mary Rawlins. Singing,
“Softly beams the sacred dawning.”
Minutes of the afternoon conference of
August 13, read and approved.
	Murray Ward reported by Counselor


(Column 1)
Sarah Ann Brown; Taylorsville, Counselor
Mary P. Brown; Hunter, President Char-
lotte Nielson.
	The reports were spirited and filled with
a desire to continue in the good work.
	Duett, “Sometime We'll Understand,”
sung by Sisters Maggie Hull and Maria B.
Winder, accompanied on the organ by Miss
Mabelle Snow, which was very much
appreciated.
	Counselor Elizabeth H. Park reported
Granger; President Eliza White, Wilford;
Counselor Minnie Myers, Grant.
	All gave in a good report and spoke of
their love for and determination to sustain
our aged sisters, the officers of the General
Board of the Relief Society who had
favored us with their presence today.
	President Emma Woodruff introduced
Sister Emmeline B. Wells as the General
Secretary of the Relief Society.
	Secretary E. B. Wells: “Mrs. President
and ladies, brothers and sisters: “I am
very much interested in Relief Society
work. It certainly is a grand organization.”
Referred to many who had died who had
been cared for and laid out by the Relief
Society sisters, and if there is sickness
among the poor the Relief Society sisters
care for them.	There are so many things
the Relief Society sisters do that are not on
the books. “I consider that the best educa-
tion that I have had, except the Gospel,
is in the Relief Society.	There are fifty
Stakes of Zion, each with a Stake organ-
zation of the Relief Society, besides the
missions.	There is a good society in
Chicago near Nauvoo, where the first Re-
ief Society was organized, and away in
the north Montana and Oregon and
branches in San Francisco, Los Angeles,
Sacramento and one or two smaller places
in California and wherever there is a
branch, there we have a Relief Society
organized.” Spoke of the good it would
do young men who intended going on
missions to visit the Relief Society and
learn something about how they were
managed, as they would likely need this
information when they get in their mission-
ary fields. Thought our young mothers
should attend and bring their babes with
them. “We want to take this work of
training our children into the Relief Society,
and I believe that in the school and in the
home love will do more than anything.
We are told that love will rule the world.
It is said of Aunt Zina that she loved every
one. Mother Whitney said that humility
would bring down the blessing of heaven.”
Made other interesting remarks on the
necessity of our young girls attending
these meetings, felt that they would some
day feel it a great privilege to belong to
the society organized by the Prophet
Joseph. Thought if President Winder
could do the many things he does at his age,
and President Smith preside over so many
organizations our young girls can surely
work in the Relief Society, and not slacken
their energies in their Mutuals.“Our
Woman’s Building I am very anxious
about. We want a place where we can
keep our records. We want a place where
we can have a library and a bureau where
information can be obtained concerning
organizations, and in fact, all information
concerning our church. This work is sure
to increase and I believe that the Relief
Society will increase in all its magnitude as
the Church advances. I ask the Lord to
bless our president, Sister Bathsheba, and

(Column 2)
her counselors and all who are here.”
	A solo was then sung with much feeling
by Sister Maggie Hull.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde: “My dear
sisters, I do appreciate the invitation that I
have received.	I feel that we have had a
feast if we could only realize and put it into
practice.” She gave an interesting account
of her visit to the City of New York and of
the mission in Kansas City, where she
found a noble lot of young missionaries.
“You mothers,” said she, “have occasion
to be proud of them.” Spoke of the feel-
ing like death that came over her when
visiting the City of Nauvoo. Felt thank-
ful and thought what a great blessing to
our people that they were driven out and
permitted to come to a land where they
could broaden and grow. Feft that it was
all in the providence of the Lord. Prayed
that the Lord would bless this organiza-
tion and the new officers.
	President Woodruff called for some of the
missionaries to report briefly of their
missionary work. Sister Louie Stevenson,
from Forest Dale and a missionary from
East Mill Creek bore their testimony and
spoke of the enjoyment they had in mis-
sionary work.
	Brother William Taylor:	“As far as I
am concerned as an individual, I feel that
we have had a feast. We have had beauti-
ful singing and instructions and we have
had the Spirit of the Lord. These are
familiar faces, Sister Horne and Aunt
Bathsheba. These dear sisters have trod-
den paths that will take them back into the
presence of their Father, and thousands
are taking the same path. There is only
one path we can take safely, that is in the
line of our duty. I know that we are
engaged in the work of God and that God
lives, and I know that Joseph Smith was a
prophet of God.
	A song by little Miss Ruthie Stevenson,
accompanied by Miss Hattie Stevenson,
was sweetly sung.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith: “I’ve
been very highly interested in the speaking
and singing, especially, what she said
seemed so innocent and wise. I was not
very old when the Gospel was restored,
but I had a testimony that Brother Joseph
was a true prophet and the Book of Mormon
was true.	And when the armies came up
I knew that they could not put down
Mormonism. I have had great faith in all
our leaders, also all of our sisters, in Sister
Emma when she was president. I believe
they allayed prejudice when she and Sister
Eliza went to see the Governor of Illinois.
I have Sister Eliza’s book that she took
minutes in, and I read it over often. I feel
that the secretaries need to be prayed for as
well as the presidents. Related an incident
of President Young’s life when he saw the
Prophet Joseph and asked him this ques-
tion:	“Brother Joseph, what have you
got for me to say to the people.” “Tell
them to get the Holy Ghost.” Aunt
Bathsheba said that we should not neglect
the dead, and as often as we could should
go to the Temple and work for the dead.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde made some
very interesting remarks concerning her
trip and visit to Washington, and one very
interesting feature was the expressed wish
to her from a congressman of Missouri to
present her to the President of the United
States.
	President Emma S. Woodruff urged the
sisters to visit the strangers when they

(Column 3)
come into their wards and the poor and
destitute. “Aud I am glad,” said she,
“to hear Sister Wells speak about our
young girls and young men visiting the
Relief Society and learning something of
the way they are carried on.” Thanked
the president of the Relief Society, Bishop,
people of the ward and all who have taken
part in any way to make our visit and
meeting interesting. Adjourned the confer-
ence for three months.
	The choir and congregation arose and
sang “Our God we raise to Thee.” Bene-
diction by Bishop S A. Casto.
			ARMEDA S. YOUNG, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.

FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION

	The U. W. P. C. was organized October
31, 1891, at the office of the Woman's
Exponent. A number of women writers
met together, as a result of letters which
had been sent to call a meeting.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was chosen temporary
chairman and Mrs. Julia I. McDonald
secretary pro tem. The permanent organ-
zation was effected, and Mrs. E. B. Wells
was elected President, Susa Y. Gates,
First Vice-President and L. Tula Greene
Richards Second Vice-President, Martha A.
Y. Greenhalgh, Vice-President-at-large,
Annie Wells Cannon Cor. Sec.; Josephine
Spencer, Asst. Cor. Sec.; Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
Rec. Sec.; Ruth M. Fox, Treasurer; Dr.
Romania B. Pratt, Auditor.
	The name, Utah Woman’s Press Club,
was adopted and the Chair appointed a
committee of three to prepare a constitution
and by-laws. Susa Young Gates of Provo,
Romania B. Pratt, Salt Lake, and Lucy A.
Clark Farmington were the committee.
	It was suggested that at the first meeting
to be held November 30, 1891, each mem-
ber contribute an original article or ad-
dress, or such a selected article as would
further the object for which the club was
organized, or be subject to a fine not to ex-
ceed twenty-five cents.
	The charter members were: E. B. Wells,
Susa Y. Gates, Romania B. Pratt, Ellis R.
Shipp, L. L. Greene Richards, Julia A.
McDonald, Lucy A. Clark and Ruth M. Fox:
	At the meeting held November 30,
Mrs. E. B. Wells made an address and three
original articles and three original poems
were read  They were, first, from the pen
of Susa Y. Gates, “The Local Literary
Field for Women.” A poem, “The
Mother Author,” Lula G. Richards. An
article on the “Suffrage Question” by
Sarah M. Kimball. Julia I. McDonald,
“The Poet’s Ideal Woman.” Ruth M.
Fox, an original poem, “Greeting,” and
Ellis R. Shipp, “Love Divine.”
	At the next meeting it was stated that
the object of the Club was purely literary,
and all foreign topics would be excluded.
	At this meeting, Miss N. V. Davis, who
afterwards contributed so largely to the
edification of the Club and charmed us
with her bright originality, was admitted
as a member, and is mentioned as telling a
very pleasing Christmas story and singing
the German Christmas hymn and a German
song.
	Miss Gladys Woodmansee is spoken of
as entertaining the Club with some fine
instrumental selections on the piano.
	At the third meeting, held January 30,
1892, Mrs. C. C. R. Wells is mentioned.


[Column 1]
President E. B. Wells read a communica-
tion from Washington, in reference to
uniting with the International Federation
of Press Clubs, for the consideration of the
ladies. Spoke of the advantage to be
gained in press work and extended oppor-
tunities at the coming World’s Fair.
	A motion was made that the club join
the Federation. Carried.
	The name of Louise Boyden appeared at
this date, who afterward added so much to
the enjoyment of the Club by her really
very fine elocutionary powers. The
minutes state that five new members were
received at this meeting.
	February 27 it is reported that eight new
members were admitted, and the names
of Phebe C. Young, Ellen Jakeman L.
L. Dalton and Julia P. M. Farnsworth
app ear.
	According to pre-arrangement of some of
the ladies the meeting took the form of a
birthday gathering to our time-honored
president and founder of the Club, E. B.
Wells. A token of love and esteem was
presented, congratulatory speeches wer,e
made and poems were read by each mem-
ber present, suitable to the occasion ex-
pressing tender love and affection, and true
appreciation of the one each desired to
honor. Mrs. Wells responded in fitting
words of thanks, saying: “Do not over-
estimate me, but love me all you will, for
love will yet rule the world.”
	At the March meeting the name of Mary
A Freeze appears as author of “The Bene-
fits of the Club, a very instructive article.
The names of Lillie T. Freeze and Miss
Genevieve L. Brown are recorded. In the
July minutes the name of L L. Dickinson
appears as the author of a poem, “The
Dreams of Childhood.”
	At the annual meeting, October 31, the
names of Mrs. Georgina Young and Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp are recorded as being
received as members of the Club, and
Josephine Spencer read an original poem,
The discussion of a pin or badge for mem-
bers is mentioned.
	Miss N. V. Davis spoke of the work of
the Club. Thought if we set apart certain
evenings for special subjects it would be
advantageous, and said: “That I am al-
ways present shows that I enjoy the time
spent here, and when I go away from
Utah I feel I shall know something of the
people.”
	January 31, 1893, Augusta Joyce Crocli-
eron is mentioned as contributing an article,
also Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh and Mrs
Ella W. Hyde and Miss May Preston were
received as members.
	Mrs. L. L. Dickinson entertained the
Club at a Valentine party in February,
1893, at her pleasant home. She com-
posed a poem for the occasion and very
artistically arranged everything for tile
enjoyment of her guests, serving refresh-
ments, exhibiting her large collection of
Indian relics and proving herself a charm-
ing hostess.
	March 22. 1893, Lydia D. Alder was re-
ceived as a member. The badge committee

[Column 2]
made a final report, submitting two designs
to select from; one with a bee and one with
a Greek lamp. It was decided to have a
gold pin with the Greek lamp, with U.
W. P. C. in raised letters. There is no
mention as to when the Club colors were
chosen, but they are lavender and sage
green. Mrs. Mamie Freeze was received
as a member.
	At the April meeting President E. B.
Wells spoke regarding the U. W. P. C.
becoming associated with the Territorial
Federation of Clubs. A communication
from the Federation explained some of the
benefits to be derived from the connection.
It was decided by unanimous vote that we
join the Federation.
	Article II., of the by-laws, was moved
by vote. Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox, Mrs. Ida
Haag and Miss Mamie Conrad received as
members. By unanimous vote Mrs. E. B.
Wells was sustained as delegate from the
Club to the Press Convention of Women to
be held in Chicago during the World’s
Fair, and Miss May Preston named as
alternate. Mrs. Maggie Bassett is men-
tioned as favoring the Club with some
choice music and Miss Pearl Russell as
singing very sweetly.
	At the May meeting little Ellis Shipp is
spoken of as very graphically reciting the
“Prairie Fire.”
	At the July meeting President Wells
was again in the chair. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor and Miss
Ada Patterson were received as members.
Miss Maude Pratt is mentioned as favoring
the Club with some choice music, one
selection from “Il Trovatore.”
	“The Sixth Sense” was discussed with
much interest. 
	An article appears in the EXPONENT of
September 1, 1893, which speaks of the
women in Journalism in the Rocky
mountains, most of whom are members of
the Press Club. It is from the pen of the
editor, E. B. Wells, and was written for
the World’s Fair held in Chicago in 1893.
			 (Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OFFICIAL NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society and the Secretary of each mission
or branch not yet included in a Stake,
whether in our own or in foreign countries,
are hereby officially notified to carefully
prepare correct statistical and financial
reports for the current year from January
1, 1901, to December 31, 1901. These
reports must be forwarded to the General
Secretary, at the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, Utah, early
in February, if possible, so that a complete
report of this great organization may be
ready at least ten days before the General
Conference in April, 1902. Address,
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
much as possible for you money.			TRY US.

[Column 2]
Obstetrics and Nursing.
Dr. M. C. Roberts will commence
another class in Obstetrics and
Nursing on Monday, Jan-
uary 13, 1901.

	By starting at this date the class will close
before the hot summer months.
75 North State St.			Telephone 748 D.


Save Your Money!

And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank and Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank n Utah.

	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not. open
one NOW

	We pay - FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.

WRITE for any information desired.
		Lorenzo Snow, Prest.
		George M. Cannon, Cashier.
NOS. 1-3-5, Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
Oregon Short Line
Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . . . .
Se that your tickets read via the 
"SHORT LINE"
And Get the best
CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
S. W. Eccles	D. E. Burley,
Gen Tfc. Mgr. 	G. P. & T. A.


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the Slate and the Nation

