Vol. 30	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1902	No. 12


CONTENTS.
The Age We Live In..........................E. B. W.	89
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting A Wardrop		90
Dr. Thomas Dunn English Dead.....................	90
March 17th Celebrations................................	91
Compliment to Governor Wells Clara Barton	92
Anniversaries, 1842-1902..............................	92
Notice to all Interested in Silk Culture..........
	...................................Margaret A. Caine	93
Sixth Ward Celebration. Elizabeth W. Condie	95
R. S. Reports...................................................	95
Program for U. S. D. R. 1902 1903................	96
Tooele Celebration................Lillian Gillespie	96
A Pleasant Time..................Catharine Naisbitt	90
EDITORIAL—Hull House, Chicago.............	92
POETRY—April’s Afield..................Selected	89
	Our Harvest Years......................Selected	89
	Relief Society Sextennial. Ellis R. Shipp	91


APRIL’S AFIELD.
April’s afield, April’s in the air!
	Almost you may see each hour
Willows that at dawn were bare,
Meadows that were brown,
	On which the lengthening mellow day has burned,
Creep into green before the sun goes down,
	And some black bough while mortal backs were
		turned,
		Swift stolen into flower.

April’s afield, April’s in the air! 
Fleeting over Earth’s slow dust,
Leaving us behind here, where
Pass and repass the years.
	Soulless as Echo she can never know
Our kisses that she hastens, nor our tears.
	Not for us watchers do her blossoms blow;
		Their day is come—they must.

April’s afield, April’s in the air!
	Heavy Winter turns his feet
Northward with his load of care;
And on April’s wings
	Unreasoning our human hearts upsoar,
As hearts have done since they were human
		things,
	As human hearts shall do for ever more
		When ours forget to beat.
						SELECTED.


OUR HARVEST YEARS.

When russet apples turn each bronzed cheek
To catch a final beauty from the sun;
When the first frost with pencil fine and true
The tinting of the leaves has just begun;
Then nature still can turn one fairer page,
It is the mellow year’s s[-]eet middle age.

When the bright world hangs out a tender haze 
To veil her scarlet colors grown so bold;
When in full fruitage droops the ripened corn
And nature’s green is turned to red and gold;
Then do we feel that in loved nature’s shrine
Four season’s wondrous blessings doth combine.

To all the riches of the summer, spring,
The hazel copse now adds a store of wealth;
The nests are empty, but the birdlings gay,
Now sing their own sweet songs by stealth;
from gen’rous laden trees the brown nuts fall,
For earth her treasure now doth yield to all.

Thus, in our human lives, those years are best,
Those harvest years with love and children blest
We see our nestlings mate in their glad spring,
And know their love is not so grand a thing
As it will be when autumn’s glory sheds
The rapture of all seasons on their heads.
			SELECTED.


Miss Wright, daughter of the Mayor of
Denver, has been invited to christen the
new Battleship “Denver,” which is to be 
launched in April.


[Column 1]
THE AGE WE LIVE IN.
[Read by the writer at the Thursday evening
session of the Fourth Triennial of the National
Council of Women of the United States, February
20, 1992, in Washington D. C., held at Carroll
Institute.]
	In taking a retrospective view of the
nineteenth century, (of which we older
people have some real knowledge), its stir-
ring events, its victories and triumphs in
many directions and its advancement along
many lines leading to higher thought and
better living, and summing up the tacts and
figures, one who observes carefully cannot
help feeling it contains an unmistakable
prophecy of the future development of the
race of mankind.
	Referring back to the days of Joel, the
prophet, who foresaw these later times in
which we live, we read, "Your old men
shall dream dreams, and your young men
shall see visions.” And they are not only
dreaming and seeing visions, but the real-
ization of all and more than has been fore-
told.
	Indeed mankind is fast approaching a 
time when still greater events will transpire
than have ever been known since the earth
was formed and man given dominion there-
in for in this age the product of the civil-
zation of all the ages, and of the splen- 
did achievements and accumulated knowl-
edge of all the centuries is with the people
of the world.
	All the attainments that have ever been
reached by the greatest scientists, discover-
ers, inventors, explorers, artists and arti-
zans, and their labors in the various fields
of knowledge and of industries, down
through the ages of time, have an existence
still, and have left their impress and effect
upon the world that can never be wholly
effaced or blotted out.
	History may not have preserved it all,
there may be no tangible record of what
has been gained, but sometime we shall
know that nothing has been irretrievably
lost.
	Men talk of the lost arts of the medieval
times, but really that which is considered
so, much of it, still exists in some form or
way, in the realm of space, seen or unseen
and that which is passed away is more
than compensated for in the munificent
present.
	Who would not rather live today than
in the ‘‘good old times” of which some of
us talk so glibly ? This is the day which
the greatest men of all the ages foresaw
and looked forward to with joyful antici-
pation, and which they ‘‘longed for and
wished for and sought but never found.”
	In a thousand ways the people of this
age have the advantage of those who
lived in more primitive times, notwith-
standing all that is told of the greatness of
buried cities, now being unearthed, and the
wonderful art of the preservation of mum-
mies known to the ancients. Not even
the vastness and permanency of the Egyp-
tian Pyramids could convince the nine-
teenth century man that people then were
more enlightened or more advanced in the
arts and sciences than the present gener-

[Column 2]
ation; and what would be said of that day in
comparison with the glowing possibilities
and larger opportunities of this newer cen-
tury.
	Again much that has been done long,
ago was by individual effort, or through,
the agency or genius of one or more great
men, leaders of thought and enterprise; in
our day there is combined force and concert,
of action of men of wisdom, of intelligence
and of courage that never falters, and by,
organized bodies of able and competent
men to bring about all that is accomplished,
of great significance.
	In this age we have organization.cooper-
ation, union of labor and of skill such as
never was known before among any people
or race of men throughout the long lines
of our ancestry from the days of Father
Adam down to the year of our Lord 1902,
and rapid strides are being made onward
towards perfection in many things and
many ways, and this is but the beginning, 
as it were, of the days of marvelous works
and wonders.
	It would be impossible to enumerate all
the new devices and discoveries in science
man has wrought out that tend to better
surroundings and easier conditions and cir-
cumstances for the masses of the people,
and to lighten the labor of woman in.the
household and elsewhere, thus increasing
the possibilities for higher education and
culture and making life more pleasant and
desirable, not only to the rich and well to
do, but to the working people, who are the
bone and sinew of the world of mankind
and whose well being must be considered
in every great question that agitates the
world.
	When one considers the growth of true
knowledge gained through a few recent
years, as compared with the same period of
time farther back, one cannot help estimat-
ing and calculating what the generations
yet to come will be able to bring about
with the superior advantages and manifold
opportunities that these changed conditions
will render possible.
	Woman as well as man is taking part in
the great drama of the ages, and is making
her influence felt along many lines of pro-
gress in various directions, and in many
matters pertaining to the present and the
future, the earth and the heavens.
	One of the tremendous forces more recent-
ly brought into active exercise, which bail
heretofore lain partially dormant, is this
awakening of woman and her cooperation
with man in the world’s great work
	She comes upon the stage of the
great drama of the world’s history at the
most opportune time, when there is need of
her intuition and genuine service, and.slie
has come to stay until all is accomplished
that now lies hidden from view in the
womb of the unborn years
	To be sure we might say woman has
acted wisely her part heretofore, and what-
ever has been undertaken by man in the
past in one way or another has been
supplemented by woman, and she has done
the work well which seemed most essential
to build up or help the family life to rear


[Column 1]
sons and daughters for future generations,
to smooth the rough places and diffuse
sunshine and sweetness, to bestow mercy
and tenderness in the routine assigned to
all mankind through the circumstances
and environments in which their lot seemed
to be cast.
	The old saying “man must work and
woman must wait,” might be arranged to
read, “Woman must work while she waits
for the wheels of progress to roll around.”
But that condition for her is now nearly
over, and the time has come when she can
lift up her voice and say, in the words of
Solomon the wise man, “Give her of the fruit
of her hands, and let her own works praise
her in the gates.”
	Civilization and enlightenment have
reached a phase that could no longer brook
the somewhat dependent stage of woman’s
powers that had for centuries existed, and
woman herself began gradually and percep-
tibly to throw off the lethargy in which she
had become enveloped like a shroud, and to
supplicate, entreat and sometimes to de-
mand for herself and her sex, more privi-
leges and a broader field in which to
exercise her mental and moral forces and
activities, and to teach this higher thought
to others, diffusing the element of greater
hope to her fellow women until the leaven
thus generated, that was no larger than a
grain of mustard seed gave new life and
power to rise to all women who would par-
take of its influence; and many felt the
divine afflatus, and the spirit of this awak-
ening has become, as it were, general until
man himself is more or less conscious of the
strength of this seemingly immaterial yet
intense vitality in woman that is permeat-
ing the world.
	Thousands of women have been praying
for this day and age in which we live, and
are now basking in its sunshine of progress
and development the prophets and seers
of old, the sages and poets all down along
the line have lifted their voices in antici-
pation of such a time, a day of freedom
that has already begun to dawn; its roseate
light of splendor is lighting up the ever-
lasting hills of promise, and we see it draw-
ing nearer. The faith of the many who
thirsted for righteousness has so far pre-
vailed that greater light has come into the
world and broader charity and love is be-
ing disseminated, truth that will dispel the
darkness of error; and bye and bye through
the potent agencies now fermenting in
nearly all lands, the blessed day of peace
will hasten on, the universal brotherhood
of man, the dream of the greatest, the best
and wisest men and women of all the ages;
and it will reach the climax of its fulfill-
ment in the century that has just dawned.
	The inspiring influences that have been
causing this uplifting are all in the program
marked out for the children of our Father in
heaven, let those who dare deny it! But
as sure as the scriptures are true and they
are true, so sure woman must be instru-
mental in bringing about the restoration of
that equality which existed when the world
was created, when the morning stars sang
together and the sons of God shouted for
joy. Woman was there in that harmon-
ious gathering, endowed with all her pris-
tine purity and loveliness, and shared with
man the honors of that momentous occasion.
The scriptures teach that God created man
in His own image, male and female created
He them, and said unto them “Be fruitful
and multiply and replenish the earth and

[Column 2]
subdue it, and have dominion over every
living thing that moveth upon the earth.”
Perfect equality then, and so it must be
when all things are restored as they were
in the beginning. It is this spirit stirring
within woman that is to bring her back
again to that primeval state that existed in
the Garden of Eden. It is the song of the
poets ringing down the ages, and, as it
were, the echoes of the divine music of a
far-off region of sublime hopes and aspira-
tions that had lingered in the soul without
power of expression, a dim memory of
something far distant, call it by what name
you will, it is an incentive to higher
thought—an ideal, a superb height of ex-
cellence towards which we are climbing,
slowly, may be, but surely. Christ has
given us the pattern, and He has told us to
love one another, given as a divine com:
mandment, and it is this great universal
love that will eventually redeem the world.
	It is not the few whose path in life is to be
made easy, but it is the masses from all
lands and among all peoples who must
come up to this standard of excellence
given by our Savior, the Golden Rule,
“Do unto others as ye would they should
do unto you” and when men and women
keep this law, then will come the time of
“Peace on earth, good will to all mankind,”
and let it be in this century, when the in-
spired poet Tennyson’s words shall come
to pass.

"For I dipt into the future, far as human eye
	could see,
Saw the vision of the world and all the wonder
	that would be.
* * *
Till the war-drum throbbed no longer
	And the battle-flags were furl’d,
In the parliament of man the
	Federation of the world." 

		E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING,

	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall, February 1,
1902, Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.
	Singing, “For the strength of the hills
we bless Thee.” Prayer by Sister Margaret
Steele. Singing, “Our God we raise to
Thee.” The minutes of last meeting read
and accepted.
	Sister Stevenson said she felt blessed in
coming to meeting. She had been to
Ogden to the birthday of Sister Jane S.
Richards, they had a nice time. Urged
the sisters to do their duty as teachers, as it
was a grand calling and a great privilege.
Spoke of the time being too short to do
what she would like to do, felt a desire to
visit the poor and urged the sisters to come
to meeting.
	Sister Squires felt the Lord had blessed
her. Wished to do all the good she could.
	Sister Saunders enjoyed coming to
meeting. Other sisters in the congregation
bore their testimony to the truth of the
Gospel and felt to thank the Lord for the
blessings they had received.
	Sister Agnes Jones, said she had a testi-
mony to bear. She had visited these
meetings ever since the first organization,
was always pleased to see the teachers come
to her house.
	Sister Mary A. Hardy thought every one
ought to bear a testimony. She felt it a
great blessing to come to meeting, and two
sisters said they were pleased to come to
these meetings. They felt well in doing
their duty, and felt glad they were teachers

[Column 2]
in the Relief Society. Thought we could
not do too much for the Lord.
	Sister Anderson felt thankful to the
Lord and hoped always to prove faithful.
	Sister Sarah Stanley spoke of the great
affliction of losing the use of her arm, but
by the use of the oil and the blessing of the
Lord it was restored again. Urged the
young sisters to come to meeting.
	Counselor Sarah Jane Cannon appreciated
coming to meeting, spoke of the teachers
coming out and doing their duty. We all
feel well in doing our duty, she thought
that in other churches many of the mem-
bers attend to their meetings better than
we do. She felt the time was too short to
waste and urged all to strive to do their
duty, for we are all responsible for our own
part.
	Sister Knox bore her testimony to the
truthfulness of the Gospel. Knew Joseph
Smith was a Prophet of God.
	Stake Counselor J. E. Taylor spoke of
the gift of healing, of the faith of a little
boy in healing by administration through
the teachings of his mother. Urged all to
have faith in the Lord, in case of sickness
to call upon Him in faith and He would
heal them. Urged all to cultivate the
spirit of healing, said the duties of the
Elders when called upon to administer was
to rebuke the disease. Advised the sisters
to have sympathy for one another.
	President Angus M. Cannon thought
when praying to the Lord we often asked
for things that we did not need, the Lord
knows best. Spoke of several circumstan-
ces of sickness in his family, of the
blessing of the Lord through faith and
administration, of the differences in having
faith in the Lord and faith in the doctor.
When we ask the Lord to bless the sick we
should say, “Thy will be done.” We
will be pleased when we all get through
and all rejoice together.
	Sister Margaret Hull was set apart as
treasurer of the Salt Lake Relief Society,
President Angus M. Cannon officiating.
Sister Hull then sang, “One Bright Crown
for Me.”
	Sister Stevenson thanked Presidents
Cannon and Taylor for coming to visit us.
Meeting adjourned for four weeks. Bene-
diction by President Cannon.
			AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


DR. THOMAS DUNN ENGLISH DEAD. 
	Dr. Thomas Dunn English died at New-
ark, N. J., on Tuesday, April 1.
	Dr. English was a writer of some note,
was widely known as the author of “Ben
Bolt.” He was born in Philadelphia in
1819 and was graduated from the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania as a doctor of medi-
cine in 1839. Later he studied law and was
admitted to the Philadelphia bar. He en-
gaged in journalism in New York from
1844 to 1859, when he came to Newark to
practice medicine. He was a member of
the New Jersey legislature in 1863 and
1864. He served two terms in the Con-
gress from New Jersey.


No one need despair of a chance so long
as God has any tomorrows left—JAMES
BUCKHAM.
	There is no sex in truth, patriotism, in-
telligence or justice,—JUDGE W. G.
EWING.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY SEXTENNIAL.
Ye sisters of the covenant, the new and never end-
	ing.
My sisters dear, I greet you, with love and honor
	blending;
Greet you as that faithful band our prophet or-
	ganized,
Of women first in history, as now well recognized.
Greet you, generous, loyal friends, God’s noble
	women you,
At this, the sixtieth milestone, still brave and good
	and true.
Organized for sweet relief, you marked the dawn-
	ing age.
When daughters of our King should turn a bright,
	new page,
’Twas then the prophet Joseph Smith, with fore-
	sight more than human,
By heavenly inspiration, “turned the key for
	woman.”
For sisterhood throughout the world, was destined
	then to be
A broader field of usefulness, new life and liberty!
As by contrast we can see greater cause for happi-
	ness,
And our comforts better know after seasons of dis-
	tress,
Let us glance at woman’s status in the dark be-
	nighted ages
So vividly depicted in old historic pages:
With retrospective vision briefly view the by-gone
	years
With the thraldom then existing, their sorrows
	and their tears,
Their base, luxurious living, their slavery and sin,
Their rank and dire oppression and all the woe 
	therein:
When might not right was victor, man’s noble
	nature slept,
When woman in subjection in pain and anguish
	wept,
When fickle kings would weary and seek a fairer
	flower,
And doom their frail companions to terrors of the
	tower.
And some could almost likened be to beasts of
	burden then;
Abused downtrodden and oppressed—the mothers
	too of men!
These mothers who had given by nature’s sweet
	accord,
 o man the boon of living, and this the base re-
	ward!
In the higher education, she could not then take
	part
To develop all the powers of head and hand and
	heart,
Their minds dwarfed and narrowed in mould of
	serfdom formed.
Till the kindling touch of heaven man’s frozen
	heartstrings warmed
Until the youthful prophet, taught by angels as of
	old.
Opened up this Dispensation, all its glories to un-
	fold,
Unbarred the gates long guarded and opened wis-
	dom’s vault,
That woman with her brother might all her powers
	exalt,
To share with man life’s struggle, or good or ill
	betide,
As helpmeets and companions walk nobly by his
	side.
In truth the time had come for the world to recog-
	nize
That woman had a mission, from obscurity must
	rise
To nobler fields of usefulness, and higher realms
	of thought,
Into life’s grand arena should her tenderness be
	brought.
Then to smooth the roughened places, to touch
	the hidden spring,
Of man’s innate humanity, and from its treasures
	bring
The purest gems of virtue, true philanthropy and
	love,
To ameliorate man’s present state, his noble
	nature prove.
She has gained more brilliant victories than wars
	have ever done,
By her gentle, kind persuasion the brightest laur-
	els won.
Then, too, as prudent stewards, you store the
	precious grain,
That want may be averted till harvest comes
	again.
You feed the hungry, clothe the poor, give gener-
	ous relief;
You soothe the sad and stricken ones, in deep dis-
	tress and grief;
You minister with gentle hand to sick and suffer-
	ing,

[Column 2]
With faith and love and holy peace in all your
	ministering.
And yours at times the duty is to note the latest
	breath,
To hear the solemn last good byes, to close the
	eyes in death;
Prepare the burial clothes, enshroud the silent
	forms,
As mothers to the motherless take orphans to your
	arms.
In a thousand ways you labor; what would our
	Bishops do
Without your kind assistance, so valiant, staunch
	and true!
Truer, better wives and mothers all are seeking to
	become,
To bring the best of heart and hand to glorify the
	home.
God bless you, noble sisters true, in works of
	sacred love,
May your self-abnegation bring great blessings
	that will prove
As “bread cast on the waters” to again return to
	you.
May the structure that you builded prove better
	than you knew.
Then hail! dear sisters. faithful vorkers in the
	noble cause!
Thy deeds of charity and love may lack the
	world’s applause,
But there is One who knoweth—thy worth the
	angels tell,
And thy reward is doubly sure—He doeth all
	things well!
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
MARCH 17TH CELEBRATIONS.

HEBER CITY.
	The Relief Society of the two wards of
Heber celebrated the sixtieth anniversary
of the organization on the 17th of March
in a pleasing manner in Turner’s Opera
House, commencing at one o’clock p. m.
	The program consisted of songs, recita-
tions and speeches, after which a delicious
lunch was served. The evening was spent
in dancing, interspersed with songs and
recitations. A very enjoyable time was
spent by all present.
		CHRISTINA GILES.

RIVERDALE.
	The Relief Society of Riverdale, Weber
Co., Utah, held annual day exercises on
March 17, 1902, this being the sixtieth
anniversary of the organization.
	The exercises were held in the ward
meeting house, commencing at eleven
o’clock a. m., President Mary M. Dye pre-
siding. The congregation sang, “Come,
let us anew.” Prayer by Elder Richard
Dye. The M. I. A. sang, “How swift the
months have passed.” President Mary M.
Dye gave to all a welcome and spoke upon
the organization of the Relief Society.
Recitation, Lucinda Fife. A paper upon
the organization of the Relief Society was
read by Sarepta Child. Duett, Margaret
Fife and Amy Bybee.
	Patriarch Sanford of Bingham spoke of
the Relief Society and its good work
among the poor and needy. Felt in his
heart to bless them, for they were trying to
comfort those who need assistance.
	Remarks were made by Sister Edna
Stimpson, who was counselor to our late
president, a mixed quartette was rendered
by Nancy Bybee, Sarah Dye, James Bingh-
am and Samuel G. Dye, and remarks were
made by Counselor Mary Stimpson.
	Bishop A. A. Bingham was thankful
that the Relief Society was in the ward, as
it is a great help. He knew the sisters
to be good, faithful women, and prayed
the Lord to bless them in their labors.
	Remarks were made by Counselor
Martha A. Fife, Brothers William Stimp-

[Column 2]
son and Joseph Fife. “Praise to the man”
was sung by the congregation.
	Counselor Samuel G. Dye, of the Bishop-
ric, realized the importance of the Relief
Society work and knew the sisters
to be women of wisdom, patience and in-
dustry. “By their works ye shall know
them,” and they will be rewarded accord-
ing to their works.
	Benediction was pronounced by Brother
William C. Parker.
	By the assistance of the young ladies
a bountiful repast was spread, and after
partaking of the same, a social time was
enjoyed. Songs, recitations, music and
step dancing by the older brethren were
enjoyed by all.
	In the evening a grand ball was given
which was participated in by old and
young.
		MARY M. DYE, Pres.

FOURTEENTH WARD.
	The Fourteenth Ward Relief Society
had a pleasant social gathering of the
members of the ward in honor of the
sixtieth anniversary of the organizotion of
the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842.
	The opening hymn, “Praise to the man
who communed with Jehovah,” was sung
by the congregation. Prayer was offered
by Counselor T. E. Taylor. Singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.” A
brief address of welcome by President M.
W. Wilcox. Solo by Miss Ida Due. A
sketch of the life of Emma Smith, Sister
Caroline Smoot. Recitation by Miss Vida
Fox. “The Seer” was sung by Brother
Thomas Poulter. Interesting remarks
were made upon the life of the Prophet
Joseph by Brother Samuel W. Richards.
Solo by Sister Maggie Hull. Recitation
by Miss Frankie Young. Remarks by
Brother M. E. Taylor. Recitation by
Brother Thomas Hull. Selection by the
choir led by Brother Butler. Benediction,
Brother J. E. Fox.
	Refreshments were then served and a
pleasant social time was spent by all
present.

FIFTH WARD.
	The Fifth Ward annual gathering took
place on Monday afternoon, March 17th,
1902, to commemorate the organization of
the Relief Society.
	The meeting was opened by singing,
“Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah.” Prayer was offered by Sister
M. A. Rich. Singing, “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet,” after which a most
interesting and instructive program was
rendered.
	Address of welcome, President R. H.
Pettitt. Essay on Relief Society work by
Annie Griffiths. Recitation, “A Woman’s
Life,” Hannah Jerram. Duett, Annie
Bird and H. Nuttall. Reading minutes of
the first organization of the Relief Society,
Margaret Buchanan. Piano solo, Theresa
Carlquist. Recitation, Annie Marcroft.
Mandolin and guitar duett, Samuel Sed-
don and Joseph Walsh. Remarks on early
days, Richard Brimley. Singing, “Now
let us rejoice.” Benediction by Brother
W. Brimhall.
	After the program refreshments were
served and dancing and a general good
time was indulged in. To see the old folks
enjoy themselves was decidedly entertain-
ing.
		A GUEST.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent. 

EMMELINE D. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparie
[--]ace one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1902.


COMPLIMENT TO GOVERNOR WELLS
	Washington, D. C., March 4, 1902.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells:
	MY DEAR MRS. WELLS:—I was so unfor-
tunate as not to see you to bid you good
bye before you left and your little package
of papers which I meant to return is still
here. I will enclose it in this, and I want
to say that the letter of your nephew is the
most concise body of arguments in favor of
Woman Suffrage and against its opponents
that I have ever read. In fact, it leaves
nothing to be said, excepting “Why don’t
you do it then?” I shall long remember
my pleasant days with Utah in Washing-
ton, and hope for a repetition of them on
the home soil.
	With love to any friends whom you may
see, I remain,
			Affectionately yours, 
				CLARA BARTON.


[Column 1]
HULL HOUSE, CHICAGO.
	Probably most of the readers of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT have heard of Hull
House in Chicago, and if so will be inter-
ested to know more of this economic, phil-
anthropic enterprise for industrial women,
which in so short a time has become cele-
brated the world over.
	Hull House is known as the result of
the magnanimity of one woman, so to
speak. Miss Jane Addams, who was the
founder and has been the active promoter
of the interests for which Hull House has
become famous.
	The object of Hull House is (as stated in
its charter) “to provide a center for a high-
er civic and social life; to institute and
maintain educational and philanthropic
enterprises, and to instigate and improve
the conditions in the industrial districts of
Chicago.”
	Ladies who have been residents of Hull
House sometimes give public lectures on
the institution at great conventions and
assemblies, telling of the good it has ac-
complished; but though one has heard a
half dozen of lectures on the subject one
cannot realize the great work done by
listening to the theory, as one can in actual-
ly going through the house and taking it
as an object lesson, and even then one
searcely comprehends the value and im-
portance of the work and what it must
mean to those who have been participants
in its benefits, until one has fully digested
what one has seen.

[Column 2]
	One might be justified in speaking of it
as a great business center, and yet it is
even more. It has a social, a moral and
intellectual side as well as industrial and
economic; and further it has higher edu-
cational and artistic advantages. In fact
it combines almost everything necessary to
life and the pursuit of happiness.
	Perhaps a list of what is taught there
may give the reader some idea of the mag-
nitude of the work undertaken and which
has proved so beneficial in improving con-
ditions that looking at previously seemed
appalling.
	For “Classes advanced” the spring term
begins April 1, and continues ten weeks,
and the fee for each course is fifty cents.
Secondary classes are free but all students
are required to register. Each day in the
week is devoted to a given subject—the
subjects are: Rhetoric, Reading, Grammar,
Poetry, General History, United States
History, Parliamentary Law, etc.
	Art and Technical Classes, fifty cents for
a term of ten lessons. This includes:
Carpentry, Sloyd, Wood Carving and Pot-
tery, Mechanical Drawing and Design-
ing, Basket Weaving, Metal Work, Clay
Moulding, Architectural Sculpture, Draw-
ing, Painting, Designing, Sketching,
Dressmaking, Millinery, Embroidery, Study
of Textile Industries, Sewing and Cooking,
In the cookery Miss Addams herself in-
structs both women and children on differ-
ent days: for instance women on Tuesday
and children on Wednesday.
	Gymnastic classes for men and boys, also
women and girls. Mr. Pearson of the Y.
M. C. A. Training School for Physical
Education has charge of the men and boy’s
Gymnasium this year, and Saturday
evenings have been given over to game
and basket ball practice. The woman’s
class has also begun its basket ball
practice.
	There are dancing classes for adults and
children, arranged for beginners and those
advanced and a nominal price or fee, with
excellent teachers in all departments.
	Music and singing are made a specialty,
they have public recitals in the Hull House
Auditorium. Audiences are enthusiasiic
on these occasions. Recently the Hull
House music classes gave a program of folk
song and dances in national costume that
was very successful financially and other-
wise. Remember these are the children of
the working people, and in many instances
the very poor.
	Hull House Clubs are a social feature as
well as educational and are all systematical-
ly arranged and under careful management.
There is the Jane Club, which is incorpor-
ated and maintains a club house for young
women upon the cooperative plan, the
weddings of the inmates of Hull House
take place in the Jane Club House.
	There is the Woman’s Club. This club
sometimes gives neighborhood parties
under the Social Extension Com-
mittee. There is the Hull House Shakes-
peare Club, Hull House Men’s Club, Hull
House Dramatic Association. Evening
Clubs are the Drexel, Henry Clay, Howe,
Washington Irving, Medill Alumnie Aria-
dne, Progressive Literary and Social Club,
Sewing Club, Gospel Club, Goodrich
Alumnie and more than a dozen others, so
that one can see much of the instruction is
given in this interesting way.
	Hull House has what is known as a
Labor Museum. For five afternoons and
evenings each week these rooms are used

[Column 3]
for classes, but on Saturday evening the
entire floor is devoted to the Labor
Museum and the public is cordially invited.
It is designed to show the development in
methods of production from the earliest
times, and as nearly as possible to illustrate
the differences of various nations. Actual
work is going on in wood work, metal
work, pottery, cooking, spinning, weaving,
basket work, printing, book binding and
clay modeling. The trades are further
illustrated by collections, charts and pic-
tures, which are open for study and in-
spection. In spinning five national cus-
toms are regularly shown, Syrian, Greek,
Italian, Russian and Irish.
	We must not forget that an excellent
Kindergarten is included in the Hull
House work; babies and little tots are
taken care of through the day for the
mothers, who go out to work, for five
cents per day.
	In short, Hull House includes every
department of household work, trades and
industries in all the several branches,
and its social life is something almost mar-
velous in the outcome. There is a com-
fortable restaurant for working men and
women with good plain wholesome fare at
a reasonable price. A library and reading
room, lecture halls and lectures by cele-
brated men and women, always free on
Sunday nights.
	At some future time we hope to tell you
something more about Hull House and
what it has done for the community round
about, and the splendid example it has
given others to do likewise.


ANNIVERSARIES, 1842-1902.
BENNINGTON, IDAHO.

	The sixtieth anniversary of the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society was duly cele-
brated by the people of our ward. Meet-
ing commenced at ten a m. An address
of welcome was given by President Mar-
garet Van Orman, after which a program
consisting of speeches, songs and instru-
mental music was rendered. An excellent
sketch on the life of Aunt Zina Young was
given by Sister Rebecca Lindsay. Original
recitations were given by Mr. James
McCouan, one on St. Patrick’s Day caus-
ing much merriment.
	At two o’clock one hundred and seventy
people were seated at the tables which 
were loaded with a delicious dinner, and
served royally. While enjoying the dainty
repast sweet music was furnished by a
number of young ladies.
	At 3:30 p. m. the program was con-
tinued, consisting of singing, instrumental
music and step dancing, in which some of
the older people excel. A letter from our
worthy Bishop, A. R. Wright, who is now
laboring among the Lamanites, was read
by Silas Wright and was much appreciated
by all.
	Badges were given to all over fifty-five
years of age, and the day’s enjoyment con-
cluded with a grand ball in the evening in
which all the older people participated.
	On the 18th dinner was served at the
meeting house to ninty-three school chil-
dren, after which they were allowed to
“trip the light fantastic.” The young
people danced to their heart’s content that
evening.
	Much praise is due the committee for
their zealous work in making such a gala
day. It will long be remembered by all


[Column 1]
participants as a day of perfect enjoyment,
peace and harmony.
				AN OBSERVER.
NINTH WARD.
	The sixtieth anniversary of the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society was celebrated in
the Ninth Ward meeting house, March 17,
1902, President Mary Mair presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by
Sister E. L. Webb. Singing, “O My
Father.”
	A program consisting of songs, recita-
tions and singing by the younger members
of the ward was rendered.
	Sister Lucy W. Smith Kimball made
interesting remarks on the early history of
the Church and the organization of the
Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. She paid a glowing tribute to Sister
Emma Smith, the first president of the
Relief Society.
	Brother C. W. Penrose said the Prophet
Joseph was inspired of God when he or-
ganized this society. It was a great help
to the Bishops of the different wards. He
advised the sisters to meet together often
and strengthen each other by their testi-
monies and faith in this great work, said
the Lord would protect and guide us if our
hearts were right before Him.
	Bishop J. W. West realized the good
work the sisters were accomplishing in
ministering to the sick and assisting the
poor.
	Brother O. A. Pettit also made timely
remarks and encouraged the sisters to press
forward in the good work.
	An excellent luncheon was partaken of
by all present which numbered over one
hundred. After luncheon there were more
recitations and singing. The meeting was
then brought to a close, Sister Martha
Barrow pronouncing the benediction.
						M. M. G.
ORANGEVILLE.
	A celebration was held March 17, 1902,
by the Relief Society of Orangeville, in
commemoration of the sixtieth anniversary
of the organization of the Relief Society at
Nauvoo, Ill.
	The Social Hall was very tastefully dec-
orated for the occasion, the ladies hall
being too small to accomodate the large
crowd, as the general public was invited.
	Religious exercises were held in the
afternoon, President R. E. Robertson pre-
siding. Singing, “Praise to the man.”
Prayer by Brother P. A. Childs. Singing,
“Oh, give me back my Prophet dear.”
Sketch of the life of the Prophet Joseph
Smith by N. T. Guyman. Sr. Historical
sketch of the Relief Society organization,
General, Stake and Ward, by Sister Maria
Guyman. Music on the accordean by
Brother A. Anderson. Reminiscences of
the Prophet Joseph Smith by Sister J. P.
Curtis. Recitation, “Fraught by the
Mother’s of Men,” by Sister Mary Jewkes.
Original poem by Sister J. E. Childs:
Essay on the Relief Society by Sister A.
M. Fitt. Around, “The Praise of our King,”
was then rendered by the choir. Remarks
by President R. E. Robertson. Song,
“Take Me Home,” by Brother and Sister
Hadfield. Recitation, “The Magic Key,”
by Sister Lizzie Reid. Appropriate and
interesting remarks were made by Bishop
Joseph Robertson. Singing, “Our God,

[Column 3]
we raise to Thee.” Benediction by the
chaplain.
	One of the pleasing features of the after-
noon was the singing by the Relief Society
choir, under the leadership of Sister Rachel
Hillian.
	The party in the evening was well at-
tended by old and young. The dancing
was interspersed with the following pro-
gram: Song by Brother A. Jewkes. Song
and step dance by Sister Eliza Cork.
Music by Joseph Jewkes, Robert Johnson
and J. D. Jewkes. Lecture on charity by
Sister M. Tuttle. Song by Loraine and
Joseph Jewkes. Song by Florence Hawkes
and others. Song, “Flitting Away,” by
Adelaide Thompson.
	Picnic was passed about 11:30 p. m. Old
time dances were a part of the evening’s
entertainment, which were indulged in by
all.
	The committee were Hattie S. Reid, R.
E. Robertson, S. E. Curtis, Jane Moffitt,
Amelia Jewkes, Anna M. Fitt and Mary
Cox.
CEDAR CITY.
	The 17th of March was celebrated by the
Relief Society holding a special meeting at
two p. m. in the ward hall. Everybody
was invited and a large attendance was
present.
	The program previously arranged by a
committee of sisters was duly appreciated:
Vocal and instrumental music by several of
our young ladies, biographical sketches,
speeches and readings occupied the time.
	Sister M. A. Lunt, our former Stake
president made a very interesting and
timely speech. We all missed the presence
of our beloved Sister A. E. Webster, who
for so many years was the leading spirit of
our society, but was not able to be with us
at this time on account of her poor health.
	Brother Webster by request spoke for a
short time, referring to the great progress
the society had made in general and the
great good accomplished by the sisters.
	We have but a few in our midst now
who were numbered among the mem-
bers of the first organization of the Relief
Society of this place which occurred in the
year 1856.
	The ten cent fund was promptly attended
to during a few minutes intermission
which was taken up in an interchange of
greeting and general hand shaking.
	Our society is at the present time in a
thriving conditien under the general super-
vision of President Ann E. Thorley and
counselors, Mary Armstrong and Lucy
Jones.
	JANE P. MACKELPRANG, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	To no class of women is the subject of
equal suffrage of such vital importance as
to the working women. To them it be-
comes an industrial as well as a political
question.—JANE ADDAMS.
	Mrs. Roosevelt has received through
John Berrett, delegate to the Pan-
American Congress, a gift from President
Diaz of Mexico, consisting of three pieces
of exquisitely drawn linen. They are said
to be the most beautiful specimens that
have ever come to this country, and were
sent to Mrs. Roosevelt as a special recog-
nition of her encouragement to the linen
workers in Porto Rico.


NOTICE TO ALL INTERESTED IN SILK
			CULTURE.

	The Utah Silk Commission take pleasure
in again notifying the people of our State
that the season for raising silk worms is
here again, and that we are prepared to
send silk worm eggs to those who desire to
engage in this industry this year. We
have already received many letters from
those who intend taking up the work this
season, and hope those who have raised
silk in the past will continue to do so in the
future, as their past experience will help
them to add much to the quality of the
cocoons they raise this year. We also ad-
vise those engaging in this work to use the
pamphlet of instruction issued by the Com-
mission, as many failures in the past have
been due to the use of other books. We
must remember that this high and dry
climate is very different to most silk pro-
ducing countries; this is one reason why
we have so much better results when we
understand how to take advantage of these
conditions.
	We are pleased to inform the public that
an effort is being made in Congress to
assist those who are interested in this
work, also that a line of scientific experi-
mental work will be taken up this year at
the Experimental Station in Logan, which
not only shows the growing interest in silk
culture, but will also give information we
greatly need.
	Many have no doubt read with interest
the letters coming from the silk raising
districts of China during the past winter,
and if the production of this valuable fiber
can in that country produce a city of
millionaires, its production will no doubt
add much to the wealth of the agriculturists
of this country, as soon as it is thoroughly
understood and trees planted in numbers
sufficient so that the production need not
be limited for want of food for the worms.
	Address all letters to the secretary, Room
502 City and County Building, Salt Lake
City, Utah, and state the number of per-
sons who can give their time when needed
and the number and age of trees from
which leaves can be secured. Do not leave
writing until late in the season. The silk
worm eggs and books of instruction, as
well as any information, will be furnished
to those desiring the same absolutely free
of charge by the commission.
			MARGARET A. CAINE,
	Secretary Utah Silk Commission.


SIXTH WARD CELEBRATION.
	Exercises were held in the Sixth Ward
assembly rooms, Monday, March 17, in
commemoration of the organization of the
Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, March 17, 1842.
	President Isabella West presided assisted
by her counselors, Ellen B. Watson and
Alice Butterworth. On the stand were
Bishop James C. Watson, Counselor Alex-
ander Burt, Patriarch Jesse West, Elders
Arnold Giauque, of the Y. M. M. I. A.,
Albert Re[-]ser, Brothers James Latham,
Thomas Winter, Henry Pugh; Sisters
Louisa Green, Jane Powel, Margaret Lath-
am, Caroline Fullmer and Mary A. Rush-
ton.
	The singing was led by Brother James
Poulton Sen., organists, Louisa Giauque and
Jane Poulton.
	Opened by singing, “We thank Thee,


[Column 1]
O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by Bishop
James C. Watson. Singing, “How firm a
foundation.”
	President West in her opening address
extended a warm welcome to those present.
Spoke of the growth of the good work of
the society. Our Heavenly Father blesses
us in our labors. Spoke of the magnitude
of the work of the society which is ever
alert to care for the sick and needy. Her
earnest desire was for the welfare of the
society. All married women who are
Latter-day Saints should be members of
the Relief Society. The Prophet Joseph
Smith was impressed to organize this
society for a benefit and blessing to us. If
we live up to our privileges we shall gain
an exaltation in the kingdom of our
Heavenly Father.
	A brief sketch of the Relief Society from
its first organization up to the present time
was read by Secretary E. Condie. Song,
“The Holy City,” by Mamie Evans. Organ
solo, Louisa Giaque.
	Counselor Ellen R. Watson knew Joseph
Smith was a prophet of the Lord, he was
inspired when he organized the Relief
Society. Was pleased to be connected with
her sisters in this grand and noble work.
Those who have large families have many
home duties to perform, but there are
but few who could not find time to attend
their meetings and attend to spiritual
duties. In the faithful discharge of them
we gain a blessing. Said let us assist the
needy and encourage those who are weak
in the faith. Referred to the ten cent fund
to assist the sisters in their traveling ex-
penses.
	Counselor Alice Butterworth said the
Prophet Joseph turned the key when he
organized the Relief Society for the benefif
of the poor, the sick and afflicted. Spoke
of the noble women with whom she was
and had been acquainted, was pleased to 
have such an honor. Such were President
Eliza R. Snow Smith, Zina D. H. Young,
Bathsheba W. Smith and Sister Emmeline
B. Wells, faithful, energetic workers in the
kingdom of our Heavenly Father, giving
their kind counsels and instructions to the
sisters “Theirs is a noble work, they are
laying up treasures in heaven.” Spoke
earnestly to the sisters who were not en-
rolled as members to become so. They
could form no idea of the unity and love
we sisters have for each other. We enjoy
the Spirit of the Lord by doing good in
this noble work, which will never end un-
til our Savior comes to reign on the earth.
	Bishop James C. Watson said we have
not only met as a Relief Society anniver-
sary, but as a reunion of the ward. Ap-
proved of the sketch read by the secretary.
Many reflections were brought to his mind.
Referred to the magnitude of this Latter-
day work. The divinity of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, the inspiration he received
from God the Eternal Father to inspire him
to organize the Relief Society, also in
electing those sisters in their various
offices. Spoke of the unity of the sisters in
this society with the Bishopric, the noble
work they had done and were doing. Re-
ferred to the good instruction given by
Apostle Anthon Lund during conference,
on being kind to the young people, not
using harshness, but use kindness, patience
and forbearance to the wayward ones. 
Counseled the sisters to be charitable to
each other, seek after those who are not so
strong in the faith, encourage them to be

[Column 2]
one with you. Thanked his Heavenly
Father for His many, blessings to him in
restoring him in health and strength thus
far.
	Singing, “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.”
	Patriarch Jesse West referred to the
grand and marvelous work performed by
the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother
Hyrum, the kind, sympathetic disposition of
the latter. Related an instance of his
pleading with the Prophet in regard to an
erring brother. Felt to bless the Relief
Society in the name of the Lord. Spoke of
the sayings of Paul. Felt to honor and
love President Joseph F. Smith and
Patriarch John Smith, for they were lineal
descendants of the Prophet Joseph and his
brother, Hyrum Smith.
	Elder Giauque realized the importance
of the work devolving upon the Relief
Society. There is much to be considered;
the power they can exercise at home is
great, they should be in unity with their
husbands, should put aside selfishness and
give aid to those who are in need. These
sisters can do more than the brethren, they
know better the wants of the sisters. Their
sympathy and kind acts can relieve those
who are bowed down or sick. Said all
young married women should be members
of the Relief Society, they need counsel
and instruction from those who have had
experience. Spoke of the divine mission
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, also of the
first organization of the Relief Society, it
being the only one organized in that way.
Spoke of the auxiliaries which were organ-
zed, such as the Mutual and Primary,
which are the first. In the Primary the
little tots are taught in a simple way the
principles of truth. These were organized
by the Presidency or with their sanction,
and are just as essential in their proper
order. But the Relief Society is of a differ-
ent character. It gives a wide scope for
thought and action. Spoke of the unity
and love that should exist in the home
circle, children were much better trained
when parents were united and often follow
in the footsteps of their parents.
	Sister Powel had been in the Church
many years, gave her experience and also
bore a faithful testimony to the truth of the
Gospel, said she had been connected with
this society twenty years. Many do not
realize the importance of the work to be
done in this society. Spoke of the redemp-
tion for the dead, what a blessed thing that
the Lord has opened a way for those who
did not hear and obey the Gospel here, and
have passed behind the veil.
	Brother Winter felt blest in being located
with the Saints of God in these valleys.
Bore a powerful testimony to the healing
power through the servants of God in his
behalf. Bore testimony that President
Brigham Young was a servant of God.
Even the Gentiles acknowledge him to be
a great man, spoke of his power as a leader
and how through his influence the Lord
made the sterile valleys to blossom as the
rose.
	Brother James Latham spoke of the
Relief Society as a different organization to
any other. It opened up a wide channel
to extend sympathy, charity, counsel and
instruction to the sisters. It was organized
by revelation through the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and is throughout the world where
our people are. It has attracted the notice
of many in the world, and many other

[Column 3]
organizations pattern after it. He had
been connected with the ward for forty-two
years, was acquainted with President West,
Counselor Alice Butterworth and Sister
Rushton, all were untiring in their efforts
for good and had performed a noble part.
	Brother Pugh thought the Prophet
Joseph did not foresee the magnitude of this
great work when he organized the Relief
Society, for it has grown to a marvelous
extent. The sisters have done a noble
work. Spoke of the integrity of Counselor
Ellen R. Watson to the Gospel, rejoiced in
hearing her strong testimony to the truth
of the Gospel. He had been acquainted with
her from her girlhood.
	Sister Rushton bore a strong testimony
to the truth. She was personally acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo,
underwent many trials and tribulations in
connection with her husband and the
Saints, being driven and threatened to be
shot by the mob. Shared both joy and sor-
row with the Saints at that time. When
she reflected on these things her heart was
too full to say more.
	Brother Poulton bore testimony to the
divinity of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Was
proud to be connected with such noble
women as President West, Counselor But-
terworth and Sister Rushton, had known
them since the year 1864. Their deeds of
kindness would never be forgotten, they
were noble women working for the interest
of their sisters, ever cheerful in the dis-
charge of their duties, willing to respond
to the calls made on them night or day to
alleviate suffering. Joseph Smith was a
prophet of the Lord, revered his memory.
Honored the sisters in their various call-
ings.
	President Albert Reiser, of the Y. M. M.
I. A., spoke briefly on the first organization
of the Relief Society by the Prophet, also
the name desired by him for that society,
he desiring it to be called a Benevolent
Association, it being overruled, however,
by the sisters. Emma Smith as president
giving her hearty approval, it was known
at that time as the Female Relief Society,
the Prophet kindly giving way to the
sisters in this. Today there are many
societies in the world who are patterning
after us. The organization known as the
National Council of Women, to which our
Relief Society is connected, has many
noble women as members who are alleviat-
ing the sufferings of many, lightening the
labor of many young boys and girls who
have to toil hard in workshops, trying
to ring about a better condition of things
in the world. But the Relief Society was
organized by divine revelation, and those
connected with it are seeking through their
faithfulness to be a power for good among
their sisters. Emma Smith was elected by
revelation some twelve years previous to
the time of the organization, “to expound
the scriptures.” When Emma was elected
president, the Prophet said, “Now is the
revelation fulfilled.”
	Counselor Burt endorsed the sentiments
of the former speakers, spoke on the law of
obedience to the Priesthood of God, the
observance of his laws, also the divinity of
the Prophet Joseph and the noble work the
sisters of the Relief Society had done and
are doing.
	Sister Latham bore a strong testimony
to the truth of the Gospel, Had been con-
nected with the Relief Society many years.
She was pleased to have our Bishop with


us, also the other brethren, had enjoyed
the instruction given to us by them.
	Sister Green felt proud to be connected
to the Relief Society, many of the poor had
been benefited and a good work had been
done. Said it is a work of love, a grand
and glorious work. “I love it and if my
sisters would come out and join us they
would enjoy themselves, we can all find
time for pleasure, we can find time to
attend these meetings and thus gain a
blessing.”
	Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Benediction by Brother Thomas Green.
	A sumptuous dinner had been previously
prepared. The committee on arrangements
for dinner were Thomas Green and the
young ladies of the Mutual Improvement
Association. The young ladies deserve
great praise, for their bright smiles and
sweet faces added much to the enjoyment
of the evening.
	Later in the evening the following pro-
gram was rendered: Recitation, V.
Pardue. Comic songs, David Fullmer.
Recitation, Sybil Wetzel. Song, William
Pardue. Male quartette. Song, Mamie
Evans. Comic songs by Lillie Hunter and
George Campbell. Selection, graphophone,
Albert Schoenfeld. Remarks by the Bishop.
	The evening’s amusements ended in a
social dance.
		ELIZABETH W. CONDIE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
BENSON STAKE.
	The first Relief Society conference of
the Benson Stake of Zion was held in the
beautiful Relief Society building of Lewis-
ton, January 11, 1902.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Rebecca Rawlins extended a greeting
of welcome to all. Reports from the various
wards were given, showing them to be in a
good condition.
	Among the speakers of the forenoon
were President Lucy Cardon, of Cache
Stake, Counselor Annie T. Hyde of Salt
Lake City, and Bishop William Waddoups.
	The main topics treated upon by Sister
Hyde was the value of the association and
the means for making the meetings inter-
esting and instructive in temporal as well
as spiritual things.
	Brother Waddoups spoke of the necessity
of training and leading our children in the
path of duty.
	Meeting was adjourned until two o’clock
and during the intermission a delicious
luncheon was served to all present and a
very enjoyable time was spent.
	Meeting convened again at two o’clock.
The principal speakers at this session were
Sisters Done, Lucy Cardon, Annie T.
Hyde, Maud Roskelly, also Presidents
Alma Merrill and Brigham Hendricks.
	Sister Done spoke of the greatness of the
association and of the necessity of women
being on an equality with their husbands in
all that is noble.
	The remarks of Sister Hyde were mainly
in regard to the Word of Wisdom and
tithing, and of the designs of the Lord in
the bringing of His people to these
valleys.
	Sister Cardon spoke of the great good
which could be accomplished among the
poor and the sick.
	The remarks of Sister Roskelly were
mainly instructions to the secretaries.
	Presidents Merrill and Hendricks spoke

[Column 2]
of the importance of fulfilling all the re-
quirements made of us by the Gospel.
	MARIA HUTTLEBALLE, Cor. Sec.
NEBO STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Nebo Stake of Zion met in
the Tabernacle at ten a. m., February 14,
1902.
	President Lillie C. Page presided and the
meeting opened by singing the hymn,
“Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer by
Brother Thomas Daniels. Singing, “Our
God we raise to Thee.” Minutes read and
with one correction made accepted.
	President Lillie C. Page spoke of the
meeting to be held on the 17th of March
and urged all to make it a day of enjoy-
ment and profit.
	A report from the president of each ward
was called for, and each responded with
a very good showing, both spiritually and
financially. Conference then adjourned,
after singing “Now let us rejoice,” till two
p. m. Prayer by Brother David Lant.
	At two p. m. conference reassembled.
Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Prayer by Bishop J. S. Taylor. Singing,
“Come let us anew.”
	Sister Price, of Goshen, spoke on the
subject of motherhood. She said in part:
“We should ask the Lord to help rear our
children in the fear of the Lord, and ever
keep a watchful care over them. Set good
examples and see that the children follow
them, be careful about the associates they
keep and they will never go astray.”
	Sister Pierce, of Salem, said she felt
weak and timid, but greatly blessed to be
with the sisters today. We cannot begin
too early to teach our children to be kind
and thoughtful of the elderly people.
Parents should interest their children at
home every evening by good books or by
any instructive means.”
	Miss Stella McClellan then favored the
audience with the song, “Tell Me,” which
she sang beautifully.
	Sister Mary A. Hallam, of Spanish Fork
Third Ward, also spoke on the subject of
motherhood. She said: “Every sister is
willing to become a wife, but many refuse
the holy condition of motherhood. If we
live rightly, according to our Father’s
word, we will not hesitate to have families
and by having the spirit of the Gospel we
will instruct them in it. Be your childrens’
best friend, get their confidence and they
will love and honor you all the days of
your life.”
	Counselor E. J. Dixon felt greatly bene-
fited by what had been said and urged the
sisters to donate to the Woman’s Building.
	President J. S. Page said he had enjoyed
the conference, and answered some ques-
tions referring to the duties of the sisters.
	Conference adjourned. Singing, “Praise
God from whom all blessings flow.”
Benediction by Brother Smith.
			MARY F. BROWN, Sec.
DAVIS STAKE.
	Minutes of the Davis Stake Relief Soci-
ety conference, held at East Bountiful,
January 30, 1902, President Susan Grant
presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Now let us
rejoice.” Prayer by Patriarch Judson
Tolman. Singing, “Earth with her ten
thousand flowers.” Minutes of previous
morning session were read and approved;
the annual report was also read and
accepted.

[Column 3]
	President Susan Grant was pleased to see
so many here. “We have so many things 
to be thankful for, and I hope we will all
live in a way that the Lord will continue
to bless us. Dear sisters encourage singing
among your children, for the Lord has said
the songs of the heart are prayers unto
Him. The Spirit of the Lord is with us,
today and we will have a good time May
we have the Spirit to be with us at all
times.”
	Sister Julia Farnsworth said, “I feel at
home when we have the Gospel. We all
have the same great aim in view and are
united. I think the work of the Relief
Society is the grandest in the world. The
women of the world did not make much
progress in their societies until Joseph
Smith organized this one. It makes us
better women when we take an interest in
this work. We are more humble and more
united with our husbands. Show me a
home where the father and mother are
united, and I will show you a home that is
attractive to the children.” Spoke of the
great mission of George Washington, he
truly earned the title of Father of his
Country. Teach your children to be loyal
and patriotic citizens.
	President Mary A. Page reported the
South Bountiful Society “We have a
good band of sisters. Our teachers make
their visits once a month and are trying to:
do what good they can. I pray the bless-
of the Lord to be with us.”
	Counselor Mary S. Clark: “I am pleased
to meet with you again. It is necessary
for us to meet together once in a while to
be spiritually fed, that we may be able to
overcome the temptations we meet with.
Teach your children the principles of the.
Gospel and of the beautiful character o
the Prophet Joseph Let us have charity
for those who do not belong to our Church,
set them an example at all times and try to
draw them into the fold. We should all
try to govern our tongues and be not the
first to speak of the faults we see in our
bre[-]hren and sisters May the Lord bless
us all.”
	Counselor Jane Holt: “I am happy in-
deed to meet with you all once more.I
feel thankful that we have been permitted
to come forth in this dispensation to help
in this great work. Remember the Lord,
and call on Him often for His Spirit to be
with us in teaching our children. So much
of this depends upon the mothers and they
need all the assistance they can get. The
object of every Latter-day Saint is to serve
the Lord and keep His commandments. I
ask the Lord to bless us with His Spirit at
all times.”
	President Jane Pack reported the society
of the West Bountiful Ward. We have
good sisters and enjoy the Spirit of the
Lord in our meetings. We are all trying
to do what good we can.”
	Centerville was reported by President
Elzina Tingey. “Our sisters are united
and are doing the best they can in taking
care of the poor. May we all have the
Spirit of the Lord to be with us.”
	President Nancy Willey reported the
East Bountiful society: “We have a large
society and our meetings are usually well
attended. Our teachers are united and
trying to do their duty. May the bless-
ings of the Lord be with us.”
	Conference adjourned until two o’clock.
Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Prayer by Brother D. O. Willey.
	Afternoon session commenced by sing-


[Column 1]
ing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer by
Counselor Henry Rampton. Singing,
“Softly beams the sacred dawning.” Roll
called and minutes of previous morning
session of conference read and approved.
	President Susan Grant then read an
article from the EXPONENT and presented
the names of the general officers. She also
encouraged the sisters to support the
EXPONENT, it is our paper and our duty to
keep it up.
	Counselor Hyrum Grant: “I am very
glad to have the privilege of bearing my
testimony before the sisters There are
many gifts given to the children of God,
one of the greatest is to know this is the
Church and Kingdom of God. In looking
over the reports of what has been done for
the poor, I find that the Relief Society has
been a great help, and I know the people
have been blessed in paying their dona-
tions.
	Farmington society was reported by
President Helen Miller: “Our society is
in a very good condition and all are trying
to do what good they can. I pray the
Lord to bless us all.”
	Sister Julia Farnsworth: “I have been
pleased with all that has been done here to
day, especially the reports of what has
been done for the poor. Money is given
to us as a blessing. If we hoard it up we
lose the blessing, while if we are liberal and
generous with the poor we make many
homes happy and our blessings are multi-
plied.” She then related a very remarka-
able instance of how medical skill failed to
restore a child’s sight, but when the
Priesthood was called in and faith was
exercised the child began to improve.
	Counselor Joseph Clark: “I realize in
looking over this congregation you are
the ones who support the Relief Society. I
know in every ward there are a certain few
who are always at their post and can be
depended upon. It costs quite an effort to
live the life of a Saint, we have to make a
good many little sacrifices, but it is these
sacrifices that make us strong in the faith.
pray the Lord to bless us all.”
	South Hooper society reported by Presi-
dent Alice King: “We are all trying to do
the best we can and take care of the poor.
	President Emma Corbridge represented
the West Layton society: “Our society is
small and very scattered, the sisters are
united and doing the best they can. The
Spirit of the Lord meets with us and we
have good meetings. I ask the Lord to
bless us all”
	President Susan Grant: “I have been
pleased and feel to endorse all that has been
said. We must strive at all times to have
the Spirit of the Lord with us to help raise
our children in a pleasing manner before
Him. Seek wisdom in all things, this is
one of the greatest gifts. Let us never be
guilty of uttering one word against the
Lord’s anointed, always look for the good
in our brethren and sisters and always be
ready to speak of their good qualities. My
desire is to do my duty and serve the Lord.
Our conference will be adjourned for three

[Column 2]
months, to be held at Centerville.”
	Counselor Hyrum Grant told the sisters
if they would teach their children the
principles of the Gospel, even though the
parents are not prominent in Church affairs,
they would be made prominent through
their children. Prayed God to bless us.
	Singing, “High on the mountain top.”
Benediction by President Amos Cook.
			ANNIE S. NEVILLE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
	much a possible for you money.					TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav- 
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


[Column 1]
PROGRAM FOR U. S. D. R. 1902 AND 1903
	April 16—Mrs. Elizabeth Titcomb, events
of 1775, and 1776. 1. Brief review of
events at Lexington, Concord, Ticonder-
oga, Crown Point, Bunker Hill and in-
vasion of Canada. 2. Second meeting of
the Continental Congress. 1776—3. The
siege of Boston. The attack at Charleston.
5. Meeting of Continental Congress, May
10. 6. The New York campaign.
	May 16.—Report of regents and dele-
gates to annual meeting G. S. D. R.
	Sep. 16.—Events of 1778-79, Mrs. S. F.
Smith. 1. The adoption of the “Stars and
Stripes,” June 14. 2 Burgoyne’s in
vasion: a British troops at Quebec; b Bur-
goyne’s advance; c Hubbardton, Fort
Edward, Bennington and Bemis heights;
d Stillwater, or Saratoga, Sep. 19; e Second
battle of Bemis Heights; f The surrender
of Burgoyne.
	Sep. 16.—Events of 1777 Mrs. Isabel M.
Sears. 1. The Alliance of France. 2. Pro-
posals of peace made by England. 3 Bat-
tle of Monmouth. 4. Attack of Newport.
5. French fleet sail to West Indies. 6. Eng-
lish occupy Savannah. 8. Massacre of
Wyoming and Cherry Valleys. 1799—80.
British capture Augusta. 9. Siege of
Savannah. 10. Recapture of Stony Point.
11. Paul Jones and the United States
navy.
	Oct. 16.—Events of 1780-81, Mrs. C. Y.
Cannon. 1 Siege of Charleston. 2. Bat-
tle of Camden. 3 Exploits of Marion,
Sumpter, Lee and Pickens. 4. Battle of
King’s Mountain. 5. Treason of Arnold.
1781.—6. Battle of Cowpens. 7 Green’s
retreat through the Carolinas. 8. Battle
of Guilford Courthouse. 9. Siege of York-
town. 10. Close of war.
	Nov. Thanksgiving Day, Mrs. E B.
Wells. 1. Origin of Thanksgiving. 2.
First Thanksgiving in New England.
3. Record of official appointment of days of
Thanksgiving in Massachusetts Bay and
Plymouth. 4. Occasional Thanksgivings
appointed by Dutch governors in New
Netherlands. 5. Thanksgiving a national
day during the revolution. 6. When rec-
omended by Congress. 7. Thanksgiving
for peace in 1784. 8. How celebrated in
New England.
	Dec.—Reminiscences by Mrs. Dougall
of James Otis, John Adams, John Han-
cock, Samuel Adams, Paul Revere, Patrick
Henry, Benjamin Franklin, Peyton Ran-
dolph, Robert Morris, Thomas Jefferson,
Silas Deane, Alexander Hamilton, James
Madison and Thomas Paine.
	Jan.—Some noted Englishmen, Myra Y.

[Column 2]
Rossiter: Preston Gage, Pitcairn, Howe,
Clinton, Burgoyne, Guy, Carlton, Prescott,
Cornwallis, Governors Dunmore and
Tyron.
	Feb.—George Washington, Mrs. P. T.
Farnsworth. 1. His family; early man-
hood; love and marriage. 2. Taking com-
mand; starting the government. 3. As a
party man; his nationality. 4. His closing
years.


TOOELE CELEBRATION.
	The Tooele Relief Society celebrated the
sixtieth anniversary of the organization of
the Society with two very interesting and
well attended meetings, the meeting house
being tastefully decorated with bunting,
etc. Space will not allow for the publica-
tion of the two pleasing and instructive
programs, but it is safe to say all felt re-
paid for having come out to hear them.
	At night a dance was given in the Social
Hall by the sisters, and thus ended a day
long to be remembered by the residents of
Tooele.
		LILLIAN GILLESPIE, Sec.


A PLEASANT TIME.
	The sixtieth anniversary of the organ-
ization of the Relief Society was celebrated
by the Hooper Ward. The Bishop was
present and a fine program was rendered.
	Adeline Belnap told some pleasing inci-
dents in the life of the Prophet, that had
transpired when she was a child. An essay
on the organization of the Relief Society in
1842, its acheivements and progress, was
read. The choir furnished some fine selec-
tions, and songs, speeches and recitations
were rendered. A dinner was served by
the sisters and a dance, in which many old
people participated. We had a day of en-
joyment long to be remembered.
	CATHARINE NAISBITT, Sec.


Under instructions from President Roose-
velt, a general order in the interests of
social purity has just been issued from the
War Department to all our officers and
soldiers, “especially those serving in the
tropics and away from home.” The com-
mon sense and practical sagacity of its rec-
ommendations will be recognized by all
persons of experience. From Maine to
California women and good men will
be grateful to the President for this action.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

