Vol. 30	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1902	No. 13


CONTENTS.

An Appeal.......................Peace Committee	97
General Instructions.........	“		“	97
Letter From St. George..Ann C. Woodbury	98
The Seven Rules of Harmony.....................	99
Miss Anthony In Philadelphia....................	99
Heritage......................................................	99
Letter......................................Clara Barton	100
Silk Culture...................Margaret A. Caine	102
Letter From Brooklyn............Belle Shaffer	102
in Memoriam..............................................	103
A Faithful Sister Gone..............Eliza Cook	103
Reunion...................................Sarah Webb	103
Kansas City Conference.....L. J. McCarthy	104
Kansas City Mission...............M. Atkinson	104

EDITORIAL—Relief Society Pamphlet....	100
	Working for Peace..............................	100
	Miss Hunt’s Visit................................	101
	Entertainment at Bee Hive.................	101
	A Social Afternoon.............................	101

Recessional......................Rudyard Kipling	99
	Courage.........................Celia Thaxter	97
	Whittier’s Poem on Peace..................	99


RECESSIONAL.

RUDYARD KIPLING.

God of our fathers, known of old—
	Lord of our far-flung battle line—
Beneath whose awful hand we hold
	Dominion over palm and pine—
Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet.
	Lest we forget—lest we forget!

The tumult and the shouting dies—
	The Captains and the Kings depart—
Still stands Thine ancient sacrifice,
	An humble and a contrite heart.
Lord God of Hosts be with us yet, 
	Lest we forget—lest we forget!

Far-called, our navies melt away—
	On dune and headland sinks the fire—
Lo, all our pomp of yesterday
	Is one with Nineveh and Tyre!
Judge of the Nations spare us yet,
	Lest we forget—lest we forget!

If drunk with sight of power, we lose
	Wild tongues that have not Thee in awe—
Such boastings as the Gentiles use.
	Or lesser breeds without the law—
Lord God of Hosts be with us yet.
	Lest we forget—lest we forget!

For heathen heart that puts her trust
	in reeking tube and iron shard—
All valiant dust that builds on dust,
	And guarding, calls not Thee to guard;
For frantic boast and foolish word,
Thy mercy on Thy people, Lord !
		Amen,


[Column 1]
AN APPEAL

TO THE CITIZENS OF UTAH.
	Certain economic, moral and ethical con-
ditions which have arisen out of the ruins
of war and bloodshed are engaging the
serious thought of the noble band of men
and women who are seeking to promote
mental and spiritual growth among all
nations, tongues and peoples.
	The present agitation and wide spread
discussion of the subjects of “Peace” and
“International Arbitration” and “Gradual
Disarmament” has been brought about by
the almost universal manifestation of moral
and mental enlightenment, which is des-
cending upon the world at the dawn of this
most auspicious period of time, the
Twentieth Century.
	The call made by the Czar of Russia for
the International Peace Conference at the
league brought the subject of Peace and

[Column 2]
Arbitration before the civilized nations of
the world.
	Among the women this awakened senti-
ment which favors peace and good will to-
ward man, found expression in a “Univer-
sal Peace Demonstration,” which was held
in eighteen countries, May 18, 1899, the
evening preceding “The Hague Con-
ference.”
	The demonstration was undertaken by
an international committee of women. The
national councils and local councils were
authorized to make arrangements for such
meeting and it is to the credit of the
women of our nation that with less than a
month’s notice there were held within
twenty-one different states 163 meetings
attended by 73,961 women.
	Under the able leaders among women,
Emmeline B. Wells and Elmina S. Taylor,
Utah gave an enthusiastic demonstration
in favor of peace and arbitration. Mrs.
Wells sent a cablegram to headquarters at
The Hague telling the good results in
our State and received a grateful reply.
	On May 15, 1901, simultaneously with
the opening of the Court of International
Arbitration, another demonstration was
made, showing that women’s zeal for
peace instead of being cooled by wars is
excited to greater ardor.
	Again the councils of women over the
entire world are urged by the president,
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, to organize
another Demonstration to be held the,
coming May 15, 1902.
	The State Committee, representing the
appointments made by the National
Woman’s Relief Society, Bathsheba W.
Smith President, and the National Y. L.
N. M. I. A., Elmina S. Taylor President,
join with leading women of this communi-
ty in an appeal to the people of this State
to lend their aid to this cause, that this
question of arbitration and peace, and the
sentiment of the Universal Brothetbood of
man may be borne to every soul in our
midst.
	The subject of peace and arbitration
deals with such state and financial questions
as material losses and cost of war, and dis-
cussions should follow along these lines.
	Moral deterioration is also incident to
war and this phase should also be brought
to the public mind. Any cause which would
tend to weaken the race physically must
involve the spiritual well being of a nation.
Thus each phase of war presents a religious
aspect and a realization of this impels us to
particularly request the entire band of
ministers and clergymen and Sabbath
School officers to unite with us in this
work, not only by attending and taking
part in the programs given at the demon-
strations on May 15, but to also discuss
subjects bearing on this question in all
Church gatherings on May 11, the Sabbath
day preceding the demonstration. We
earnestly appeal to all teachers, principals,
superintendents of public and private
schools to devote “morning talks” and
chapel exercises on the morning of May 15,
to subjects in relation to Universal Peace.
Presidents of Primary Associations might

[Column 3]
also give suitable talks at the regular
meeting preceding May 15.
	We appeal to the club women to assist
us by taking active part in the demonstra-
tion effort, to stimulate the desire for peace
and to concentrate public attention upon
those ideals of loving brotherhood.
	Speed the day when “Nation shall not
lift up sword against nation, neither shall
they learn war any more,” but “they shall
beat their swords into plough shares and
their spears into pruning hooks.” Then
shall we approach more nearly to the real-
ization of the “Peace of God which passeth
all understanding.”
	Signatures—Bathsheba W. Smith, El-
mina S. Taylor, Ann M. Cannon, Julia
P. M. Farnsworth, Clarissa S. Williams,
Maria Y. Dougall, Lizbeth Qualtrough,
Emma J. McVicker. Lucretia H. Kimball
Bertha G. Bamberger, Isabel M. W. Sears,
Josephine Spencer, Mary A. H. Cannon,
Virginia Snow Stephen, Elizabeth Cart-
wright, Katie B. Y. Kraft, May Wells
Whitney, Mary F. Young, Dessie W.
Grant, Clara Holbrook, Inez Knight,
Lillian Horne, Alice Richards, Rebecca E.
Little, Janie M. Kingsbury, Edna M.
Ridges, Lucile Jennings, Alice Isley.
	Annie Taylor Hyde, member of the
International Peace Committee. Alice Mer-
rill Horne and Christine Smoot Taylor
members cf the National Council Peace
Committee and Chairmen of the State Peace
Demonstration of Utah.

TO BE READ AND VOTED AT MEETINGS IN THE UNITED
STATES ON MAY 15, I902, IN SYMPATHY WITH THE
UNIVERSAL DEMONSTRATION OF WOMEN IN BE-
HALF OF PEACE AND ARBITRATION.

	Resolved, That American women assem-
ble on May 15, 1902, for the purpose of
considering the fruits of war and the fruits
of peace, and hold a demonstration in
behalf of peace and arbitration. They
commit themselves to adopting as their
own that ideal of loving brotherhood,
which can be realized only by the cessation
of international hostilities. They repudiate
war as a means of settling international
difficulties, as they repudiate the duel as a
means of settling personal animosities.
They accept as a corollary of the universal,
fatherhood of God the universal brother-
hood of man.
	They send greeting to women of other
countries who this day may be assembled
to attest similar convictions. They rejoice
that women throughout the world are be-
ginning to feel their responsibility for
human conditions outside of the home as
well as within its sacred walls. They ask
all women everywhere to adopt as their
own the task assumed by the International
Council of Women, which is “the applica-
tion of the Golden Rule to society, custom
and law.”


GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS ON PEACE
DEMONSTRATION MEETINGS.
	The General Committee appointed to
take charge of the Peace meetings to be 
held continuously on May 15, 1902, feel
it a duty to outline a plan for the ladies


[Column 1]
who are too far from headquarters to get
verbal advice on these matters; and there-
fore present the following suggestions as a
guide to assist in making a conformity in
the gatherings throughout the State.
	Each president of the Relief Society and
each president of the Y. L. N. M. I. A. is
hereby appointed Chairman to organize a
Committee and hold a Peace Demonstration
in a suitable place, hall or house.
	If two or more wards desire to unite no
objection will be raised. The State Com-
mittee would be deeply gratified, however,
if a gathering be held in each ward.
	The Presidents of the Relief Society Stake
organizations and of the Y. L. N. M. I.
Stake Associations are considered members
of the State Committee and will be ex-
pected to use their influence and lend their
assistance to promote the interests of the
movement. 
	It is further suggested that in naming
committees, it would be desirable to con-
sider women of different religious beliefs
and invite them to take part and unite in the
demonstrations.
	The record of each meeting should be
made and forwarded to the Chairman of
the State Committee, Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, Care EXPONENT Office, Salt Lake
City, Utah.
	The Record should contain certain items
of information:
	1st.—Place of meeting.
	2nd.—Number of persons present.
	3rd.—Number of speakers.
	4th.—Names of speakers.
	5th—General tone of meeting.
	6th.—Statement whether Resolutions
were adopted or not.
	7th.—Degree in which the clergy in
your locality responded to invitation to
prepare the public mind for the demon-
stration.
	The Committee on Program suggest the
following subjects as suitable for papers or
addresses: Purpose of the Peace Demon-
stration, what it may accomplish. The
Hague Conference. Fatherhood of God
and Brotherhood of Man. Moral Deter-
ioration Incident to War. The Spiritual
Aspect of War. Peace poems and songs to
be interspersed.
	For schools eighth grade pupils might
write papers on any one of the subjects
given. Lower grades give Peace poems
and songs.
	The Committee on Decoration and
Sentiments have not completed their report
in reference to decorating but will report
later, however they have made a careful
selection of Peace sentiments which are
given here:
	“The pen is mightier than the sword.”
	Take away the sword! States can be
saved without it.—Richelieu.
	Peace hath her victories,
	No less renowned than war.—Milton.
	Where discord roars, Peace shall the
tumult still.—J. Dunbar Hylton.
	A happier gift than heaven’s own fire
	Is heaven’s sweet gift of peace.—Arthur
	J. Lochport.
	Loyalty, Peace and Arbitration.
	“A time will come when the science of
destruction will bend before the arts of
peace.”
	“How lovely are the messengers that
preach us the Gospel of Peace.”
	“Glory to God in the highest, and on
earth peace and goodwill to men.”

[Column 2]
	“Blessed are the peace makers, for they
shall be called the children of God.” 
	“For what does it profit a man to gain
the whole world and lose his own soul.”
	“Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thy-
self.
	“And He shall judge among the nations
and shall rebuke many people and they
shall beat their swords into ploughshares,
and their spears into pruning hooks;
nation shall not lift up sword against
nation, neither shall they learn war any
more.”
	“Provoke not your children to wrath.”
	“Stand therefore having your loins girt
about with truth, and having on the
breastplate of righteousness; and your feet
shod with the preparation of the Gospel of
Peace.”
	“And this I pray that your love may
abound yet more and more in knowledge
and in all judgment.”
	“The peace of God which passeth all
understanding, shall keep your hearts and
minds through Christ Jesus.”
	Respectfully Submitted
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		MARIA Y. DOUGALL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM ST. GEORGE. 
	My counselors and myself, of the Relief
Society, Sisters Morris and Bleak, also
Sister Sarah J. Randall, of the Primary,
left St. George, Wednesday, March 19, and
held a Primary meeting in the evening in
Littlefield, Sister Hannah Averson presid-
ing.
	The 20th we traveled on down the Vir-
gen River. The people are making homes
along the river, settling in little patches.
We took dinner with Sister Bodilla M.
Johnson at her home a few miles above
Mosquito Flat, then went on to the town
Mosquit and held a Primary meeting. We
stayed over night at Counselor James
Hughes’ home who made us welcome. At
ten o’clock on the morning of the 21st we
met with the Relief Society and a number
of brethren met with us. We urged the
sisters to live their religion, store grain,
take care of the sick and afflicted, provide
for the poor and needy and comfort the
hearts of those that are called upon
to mourn, to teach the children to pray
from infancy, and they will arise and call
them blessed.
	We went on to Bunkerville and at two
o’clock met with the Relief Society and
celebrated the anniversary of the first
organization. It had not been convenient
to hold a meeting on the 17th, owing to
the people attending the quarterly confer-
ence at St. George. Bishop Bunker,
Counselor Abbott and a number of other
brethren met with us, we truly had a time
of rejoicing. Here seems to be the head-
quarters for raising seedless grapes.
Bishop Edward Bunker is very energetic
and is determined to make it a success. I
trust they will have a packing house in the
near future. We held a Primary meeting
at 5 o’clock, Sister Harriet Earl presiding,
and had a nice time, The children are
very bright.
	March 22 we went on to Overton and
held an evening meeting with the Relief
Society. Bishop John Bunker and ex-
Bishop Jones met with us. We feel very
grateful and encouraged when the breth-
ren meet with us and give us words of
welcome. We rojoiced to mingle our
voices with the Saints.

[Column 2]
	Sunday 23 we had the privilege of talk-
ing to the children of the Sabbath School.
In the afternoon some of the people of
St. Thomas came over and met with us.
We had a very nice meeting and a good
spirit prevailed. Sister Susan Johnson
kindly entertained us.
	We went on to St. Thomas and held an
evening meeting. We had a very enjoy-
able time. President Syphus regretted
that they had not had a Primary meeting.
We told them we could hold one in the
morning if the children would come at 8
o’clock. They said they would come out
any time, so they came at 8 o’clock and we
had a delightful meeting.
	We then traveled thirty-five miles up
the river to Bunkerville and had a lovely
meeting that evening. We rejoiced great-
ly at the good words that Bishop Edward
Bunker and Brother Myron Abbot gave us.
We were kindly entertained at Bishop
Edward Bunker's, and trust that [-]e may
live long upon the earth to do good.
	On the 25th we left the kind people of
this place and arrived at Littlefield, where
we stayed that night. This place is the
corner of Arizona, they have a rock school
house and it seems to be a good place to
make a living. There are many springs
about here and the good people that live
here raise very good fruit.
	On the 26th we left Littlefield for home,
There had been a good bit of snow depos-
ted in the mountains since we left home,
to the joy of the people.
	We arrived home safe that evening,
Brother William Miles having driven our
team and helped us entertain the people.
We were away eight days: held twelve
meetings and traveled one hundred and
ninety miles. I trust we have done some
good in the cause of truth. At our meet-
ing s we read the instructions from the
General Board of the Relief Society about
the 17th of March, and encouraged the
people to plant mulberry trees and work at
the silk industry.
		ANN C. WOODBURY


Miss Vida Goldstein of Australia, who
has been commissioned by the government
of Victoria to study American methods of
dealing with dependent and delinquent
children, lately spent a day in the Juvenile
Court of Philadelphia and another in that
of Chicago. She says that while the benev-
olent purpose of the Judge is evident, it
seems to her a great mistake to bring all
the children into court together, and to let
the younger ones be present while the
cases of boys and girls in their teens are
being tried. In her opinion the best system
yet devised for dealing with young culprits
is the Children’s Council of South Austra-
lia. The Council consists of six men and .
six women. It has jurisdiction over all
offences of young people under eighteen,
except murder or manslaughter. It meets
not in a courtroom but in its own office in
a building devoted exclusively to children’s
affairs. The children are brought in one
by one, and after the Council has con-
sidered each case and decided what is best 
to be done about it, the Judge makes the
order in accordance with the Council’s ad-
vice. In South Australia women have full
suffrage. Miss Goldstein says that in
those parts of Australia where women do
not vote, the methods of dealing with child
culprits are much less advanced.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


COURAGE.
Because I hold it sinful to despond, 
	And will not let the bitterness of life,
Blind me but look beyond,
	Its tumult and its strife.

Because I lift my head above the mist,
	When the sun shines and the broad breezes
		blow,
By every ray and every raindrop kissed
	That God’s love doth bestow.—

Think you I find no bitterness at all? 
	No burden to be borne, like Christian’s pack? 
Think you there are no ready tears to fall 
	Because I keep them back?

Why should I hug life’s ills with cold reserve,
	To cure myself and all who love me? Nay!
A thousand times more good than I deserve,
	God gives me every day. 

And in each one of these rebellious tears
	Kept bravely back he makes a rainbow shine,
Grateful I take his slightest gift, no fears
	Nor doubts are mine. 

Dark clouds must clear, and when the clouds are
		past— 
	One golden day redeems a weary year,
Patient I listen, sure that sweet at last
	Will sound his voice of cheer.

Then vex me not with chiding. Let me be,
	I must be glad and faithful to the end.
I grudge you not your cold and darkness—me
	The powers of light befriend.
						CELIA THAXTER.


WHITTIER’S POEM ON PEACE.

Thank God for rest where none molest,
	And none can make afraid,—
For Peace that sits as Plenty’s guest 
	Beneath the homestead shade!

Bring pike and gun, the sword’s red scourge,
	The negro’s broken chains.
And beat them at the blacksmith’s forge
	To ploughshares for our plains.

Alike henceforth our hills of snow. 
	And vales where cotton flowers;
All streams that flow, all winds that blow,
	Are Freedom’s motive-powers.

Henceforth to Labor’s chivalry
	Be knightly honors paid;
For nobler than the sword’s shall be
	The sickle’s accolade. 

Build up an altar to the Lord,
	O grateful hearts of ours!
And shape it of the greenest sward 
	That ever drank the showers.

Lay all the bloom of gardens there, 
	And there the orchard fruits:
Bring golden grain from sun and air, 
	From earth her goodly roots.

There let our banners droop and flow,
	The stars uprise and fall;
Our roll of martyrs, sad and slow,
	Let sighing breezes call. 

Their names let hands of horn and tan,
	And rough shod feet applaud,
Who died to make the slave a man,
	And link with toil reward.

There let the common heart keep time
	To such an anthem sung
As never swelled on poet’s rhyme
	Or thrilled on singer’s tongue.

Song of our burden and relief,
	Of peace and long annoy;
The passions of our mighty grief
	And our exceeding joy!
		*	*	*
A song of faith that meets the end
	To match the good begun,
Nor doubts the power of love to blend
	The hearts of men as one!


“Resolved, That the Society of the
Daughters of the Revolution, Common-
wealth of Massachusetts, cordially indorses
the movement to rebuild the United States
frigate, Constitution, and that it is desirable
that individual members of the society
shall assist by all means in their power in
this great patriotic work.”


THE SEVEN RULES OF HARMONY.
	1. Make the sacred spirit of peace a
living power in your life, and contribute
all possible time, thought and money to its
diffusion.
	2. Never listen, without protest, to in-
sinuations, vituperations, or unjust accusa-
tions against the members of your family
and your fellow-citizens.
	3. Seek to understand the spirit of the
national laws, and to obey those which ex-
ist; and to interest yourself fervently for the
modification of all those which you con-
sider tyrannize uselessly over any class of
citizens.
	4 Dedicate your thought and use your
influence to develop the national and
patriotic spirit, and do not criticise without
purpose the administration of the family
and of the nation.
	5. Treat all birds and beasts and all ex-
istences of the animal and vegetable world,
with justness and gentleness. Do not de-
stroy save for self-preservation and for the
protection of the weak. Instead make it
your object to plant, to nourish and to
propogate all that will lead to the moral
and physical amelioration of the family, the
home and the nation.
	6. Teach your children and your de-
pendents what you may learn with regard
to justice and peace, and seek to develop in
them sentiments of harmony.
	7. Seek each day to utter some word,
or to perform some little action which may
promote the cause of peace, whether at
home or abroad.


MISS ANTHONY IN PHILADELPHIA.
	Fully recovered from her recent illness
Miss Susan B. Anthony enjoyed greeting
several hundred persons at a reception 
given her in Philadelphia last week by the
political science section of the New Century
Club.
	The following concerning Miss Anthony
in the Philadelphia Bulletin will be of
interest to her many friends:
	“I feel new made,” said Miss Anthony
when she was seen at the home of her
niece, Mrs. Helen Mosher James, 4716
Windsor Avenue.
	The hand that has so valiantly fought
for the ballot box and for rights equal to
those of men was very effeminately en-
gaged. Miss Anthony was adorning a
black silk waist with black lace, and while
the needle was industriously employed she
talked.
	Miss Anthony showed but little evidence
of her recent illness. Her heavy white
hair was old-fashionedly parted squarely
in the centre and bunched flat across her
broad brow. Her eyes twinkled behind
her gold-rimmed glasses as she entertain-
ingly kept up the conversation.
	“No, I am campaigning no longer,”
she said. “I am kept busy answering
correspondence. So many women want
me to give them pointers in speech writing
that I am always engaged.
	“I read in your paper the other day of
five girls winning scholarships. It did my
heart good to learn that they were more
than equal to the college men. Then I am
sympathizing with the poor American
girls who have gone to the Philippines to
teach. The Philipino will be allowed to
vote and the teacher won’t have that privi-
lege.
	“I am watching Congress closely, too,”


continued Miss Anthony. “Mrs. Catt and
Miss Shaw, you know, have asked Con-
gress for a congressional commission to
investigate the subject of women’s voting
in Wyoming, Colorado, Utah and Idaho.
Some men say that the women fail to vote.
We want Congress to investigate, and we
will accept the report of such a commision.
The Filipino, Indian and liquor traffic
have separate commissions. I don't see
why the women cannot have one.
	"I have been away from home two months
now and must soon get back. Before I
return, however, I shall visit Mrs. Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton in New York. Mrs.
Stanton will be eighty-seven years old on
her next birthday. She is just four years
older than I am.”—Woman's Journal.


HERITAGE.
	[Suggested by reading Drummond’s
“Ascent of Man.”]

	When the first man and woman had left
the seclusion of the Garden, crossed the
river of Possibility, and stood upon the
shore of Time, ready for their onward
journey toward Posterity, the Angel of
Opportunity appeared to them and said:
	“Man, make a prayer to Nature and
Life. Petition wisely, for whatsoever you
ask shall be the heritage of your sex for-
ever.”
	And the man thought and thought,
then, looking up at the glowing sun, ex-
claimed: “O Nature, do not thrust your
greatest throes upon me, nor persist in
making me remember pain.”
	The angel said to the woman, “Pray
thou also with wisdom.”
	As the woman brought low her head
she softly said: O Nature do not allow me
to grow callous nor empty. Hold me
close to the joys so few, the sorrows so
many, that I may gain strength from
each.”
	Again the Angel bade the man pray,
and once more he stood and looked toward
the glowing sun saying: “O Life, give
me joy and pleasure: Do not unload upon
me the sorrows of others; do not open my
eyes to pangs I cannot assuage. Give me
sweets and the power to cast aside regret.
	“Sister,” said the Angel, “pray.”
The women bent still lower and in a
softer voice uttered her petition: “O Life,
“Do not take away from me the memory
of sorrow, the shell holding the kernel of
joy; do not allow me to become blind to
the debt I owe others. Make me tender;
give a woman’s portion, pain—that I may
attain my full stature.”
	And that the Angel’s promise might be
redeemed, from that hour there was im-
planted in man the overmastering love
of pleasure, and engrafted in the heart of
woman the undying instincts of mother-
hood.—New Lippincott.


An American girl has been chosen to
paint a portrait of Queen Alexandra during
the coming season. She is Miss Ann West
Shaw, a grandniece of Benjamin West,
whose work first gave America a claim to
art.  Miss Shaw is a St. Louis girl.
While in London a few months ago she
painted a minature of the wife of Sir Stan-
ley Clarke, chief equerry to King Edward.
It is said that Lady Clarke’s influence
brought the young artist the commission to
paint the Queen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparie
cpace one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
ount to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to
		Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1902.


RELIEF SOCIETY PAMPHLET.
	The Pamphlet published by the General
Officers of the Relief Society is now ready.
It is desirable to have it in the hands of
every President of the Relief Society
throughout the organization. It contains
instructions from the General Presidency
of the Relief Society that are essential
to the progress of the work in every
branch. It has the minutes of the first
organization at Nauvoo, Illinois, and other
important matter and a Biographical
Sketch of President Bathsheba W. Smith.
	For sale at this office, price 25 cents.


LETTER.
	Glen Echo, Md., April 16, 1902.
Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	MY DEAR MRS. WELLS:—Your package
of beautiful photographs is here. I have
never seen finer. If Salt Lake is as beau-
tiful as that, it is sufficient to make every-
one want to go and I am living in the hope
that one day I will. You have probably
seen that I am to go to Russia, sailing the
first day of May, hoping not to be gone
over six weeks.
	I remember every day the beautiful visit
we had in Washington and cannot feel that
that is the last of it.
	Please give great love to all the sisters
and relatives there in Salt Lake and waft
one of the kindliest breezes of love over to
Susa Gates.
	You will naturally infer that I am doing
everything hastily in these days with so
much immediately before me, and I must
even sign this letter in haste and love,
				Yours,
					CLARA BARTON.


[Column 1]
WORKING FOR PEACE!
	Groups of devoted, patriotic women all
over the world are trying to create a senti-
ment in favor of peace and the settlement
of difficulties by arbitration. One of the
potent means employed is arranging for 
meetings large and small in all the cities,
towns and hamlets where it is possible to
bring the citizens together. No distinction
is made in favor of any one class, sect or
denomination in the interests of universal
peace. We hear it said frequently, “How
absurd to be working for peace when war
is in active operation.” We, say all the
more need to try and bring about better
conditions.

[Column 2]
In an appeal “To the Women of all
Nations” by the women of France, issued
by the Princess Wisznewska she says:
	“Let women enter this Path of Peace
and draw with them future generations.
It is surely in their power to do so, for
they are the first teachers of the young
whose ideas they inspire, and often they
are co-workers with men. They can and
they ought to inculcate by their teachings
and by the persuasive accents of pity,
goodness and tenderness in the young
minds which have been entrusted to them.
It is thus that in all social surroundings
they will be able to contribute powerfully
to transform the warlike spirit and mould
the Spirit of Peace.
	“These mothers loving really their chil-
dren, these patriotic women truly attached
to their country, have undertaken the task
of enobling the human race, of elevating
the National spirit by means of an educa-
tion really worthy of mankind. Guided
by the Central Council of the Alliance
they exchange from country to country acts
of friendship, treaties of Peace whose im-
portance will be recognized in the future, for
hand clasped in hand, mothers, sisters and
wives in France, England, Germany, Russia,
Poland, Norway, Sweden, America and
Spain, etc., etc., invoke, irrespective of
political tendencies, the right of man to
Life, Happiness and Liberty. These noble
women give the example of the most
glorious, the holiest of alliances, that
which is not sealed for conquest by de-
struction and by brutal force, but which is
formed to conquer by the power of Love
and of Peace.”
	Women have, as it were, caught a
glimpse of the dream of universal fraternity.
Hon Charles Sumner, the great statesman
and one of the first and strongest champions
of woman’s emancipation and enfranchise-
ment, in an eloquent address delivered on
Boston Common, July 4, 1845, urged upon
the American nation its duty to take the
lead in a movement for universal peace.
	This year is the third time a call has
been sent out from headquarters to the
women of all lands to make public dem-
onstrations. These gatherings of women
cannot fail to have an effect upon public,
opinion whatever may be said to the con-
trary. Songs, hymns, invocations, addresses
on this subject are sure to produce favorable
results. The rescript of the Czar of Russia
three years ago opened with these words:
“The maintenance of general peace and
the possible reduction of excessive arma-
ments present themselves as ideals toward
which the endeavors of all governments
should be directed.”
	Rev. Charles G. Ames D. D., in an ad-
dress delivered in Boston said: “Shall we
go on sowing dragon’s teeth forever?
There is a more excellent way. We are to
change the animus and objects of de-
plomacy by bringing all the nations into
an alliance. We are to consult together,
not merely how one combination can out-
wit or overpower another, not merely how
to shape our policies according to the
promptings of suspicions, jealousies, old
grudges, traditional hatreds, dynastic and
territorial guides, but to contrive how
we may open the highway of prosperity to
all mankind.”
*    *    *
“The difficulties in the way of general
pacification are great, but as has been well
said, ‘more difficulties are in the way of

[Column 3]
its failure.’ The forces at work for peace
are many and mighty. The clearest
voices heard just now throughout the
civilized world are protests against war.”
	The speaker referred to enumerated the
measures to be considered:
	1. Treaties of arbitration or the set-
tlement of disputes by that method even
in the absence of treaties. Such settlements
already count by scores.
	2. Treaties of reciprocity in trade. The
rivalries of honorable commerce are all in
the interest of good neighborhood; and the
time will come—I believe it will come
soon—when the barriers to international
intercourse will be counted as relics of bar-
barism.
	3. Neutralization of the open seas. I
heard George Hale tell how for eighty
years an argument written on one sheet of
paper had kept both England and the
United States from anchoring vessels of
war on our great inland lakes, and had
made it needless to plant fortifications on
their shores. Why may not this policy be
induced to the breadth of the Atlantic
and Pacific seas which are fast becoming
like inland lakes?
	4. Provisions for international coinage,
or more probably for a monetary unit, to
the immeasurable convenience of a thou-
sand millions, and acceptable to everybody
but the money changers, are among the
possible concessions which local narrow-
ness, pettiness and precedent may yet
make to the growing spirit of goodwill and
good understanding.
	5. But crowning and completing the
edifice of justice and peace must come that
Permanent Tribunal for the settlement of
international difficulties of which we are
hearing so much and are yet to hear more.”
	There are forces at work that are help-
ing to move the world of mankind towards
peace and universal brotherhood. Light
has come into the world and it will in-
crease. Some day the civilized nations
will call a greater Conference in its interest
than has ever been yet, and the customs of
war and the implements of destruction will
be abolished.
	The Latter-day Saints above all people
should be on the side of peace. They do
not believe in the shedding of blood and
our Church difficulties are settled by arbi-
tration. The High Council in every Stake
of Zion exists for this purpose, and to avoid
lawsuits has always been the policy of our
people. Therefore as a people we stand
for peace, yet when our country calls for
men to go out and defend it our men are
ready to serve and as patriotic and heroic
as any citizens of the United States.
	If the introduction of peace flags, peace
symbols and peace literature can effect a
change and convert the youth of the age to
a higher ideal of life and its pursuits than
the paraphernalia and characteristics of
war then positive results may be expected
from the organizations of women; and the
public demonstrations now inaugurated if
kept up annually will keep the thought of
peace in the minds of the people.
	Even the pecuniary losses through wars
to the nations is insignificent compared
with the Death Roll and the license given
to all man’s fiercer passions, and the de-
moralization and degeneracy of peoples, and
incurable diseases fastened upon men and
women.
	The Psalmist David said in days of old,
“I will hear what the Lord will speak, for


He will speak peace unto His people.”
Let those who live in perilous times speak
peace, sing the songs of peace, pray earnest-
ly for peace, Those who profess to be the
followers of the Savior, the Prince of
Peace, should be men and women of peace,
not in words only but in deeds. Speed the
time when there shall be no more slaying
of men nor of any living thing.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MISS HUNT’S VISIT.
	Miss Sarah E. Hunt, of Salem, Mass.,
on her trip westward paid a flying visit to
the Daughters of the Revolution in this
city. Arriving here early Monday morn-
ing, April 28, she was met at the depot by
Mrs. Julia F. Lund and Miss Mabelle
Snow and escorted to Mrs. P. T. Farns-
worth’s residence where breakfast was
waiting. Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith,
Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. Clarissa Smith
Williams were Mrs. Farnsworth’s guests to
meet Miss Hunt at breakfast.
	Afterwards an informal meeting was
held in the parlors that were decorated
with the colonial colors, etc. The regent,
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, in the chair.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. B. W. Smith
and the speaker was introduced by the
regent, who mentioned that Miss Hunt
had just arrived from Denver where she
had attended the biennial of the D. R.
and had been elected First Vice-President
General of the D. R. General Society, con-
sequently this was her first meeting in her
new official capacity.
	Miss Hunt gave a sort of resume of the
recent biennial at Denver, the various ex-
cursions planned, the pleasure of the dele-
gates and a general idea of what had been
accomplished, explained her idea of the
legitimate work of the D. R., and spoke
of the sisterly feeling which should exist
among the women thus banded together.
Felt we must do vital patriotic work in the
line of good citizenship, educating the
masses for future usefulness, and meantime
in every possible way depleting the crimin-
al classes among the young.
	The speaker was enthusiastic on the
subject of Junior classes and Mr. George’s
Republic at Freeville, N. Y., said it had
worked admirably and attracted great
attention from educators and men and
women engaged in reformatary work. The
plan is to assist in taking poor boys from
the streets and giving them opportunities
to help themselves in industrial pursuits,
and the motto is, “Nothing Without
Labor,” and to make labor honorable.
They make their own laws, the girls vote
as well as the boys, and they have a court
where those who do wrong are tried,
smoking is one of the things for which
they are tried. Some very incorrigible
boys have been redeemed through the
methods enforced there and the results as a
whole have been gratifying. In the
Republic boys who had never heard the
word duty are taught practical lessons of
their duty to others. The affair is entirely
unsectarian and is practically self-support-
ing, those living there pay in work for
everything they have a nominal price. It
is something on the plan of Hull House,
although it is not for adults only juniors.
Almost all kinds of trades are taught, also
gardening; there is a printing press and a
newspaper is published by the boys on the
grounds.
	At the close of Miss Hunt’s “talk”

[Column 2]
“America,” was sung by the ladies, Miss
Alice Farnsworth playing the accompani-
ment, and benediction was pronounced.
Introductions and good byes and a hurried
leave taking and expressions of good
fellowship and an urgent invitation to the
honored guest to visit us again.
	There were about thirty ladies present.
Mrs. Wells and Mrs. Lund accompanied
Miss Hunt to the station to take the train
for Los Angeles, she will return to Boston
by the Canadian route. She expects to
stop at Spokane and other cities and do
some organizing of the Daughtors of the
Revolution before returning home.


ENTERTAINMENT AT BEE HIVE.
	Wednesday, April 8, 1902, Sister Julina
L. Smith entertained the officers and Board
of Directors of the National Woman’s
Relief Society and a few invited guests at
the Bee Hive House, assisted by a com-
mittee from the Board: Sisters Emily S.
Richards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth and
Phebe Y. Beatie.
	A delicious luncheon was served and the
social intercourse was delightfully pleasant.
	Among the guests who were not mem-
bers of the General Board were Sisters
Martha Smith Harris, of Provo, Sarah
Richards Smith and Edna L. Smith, of
this city. All the members of the Board
of Directors were present excepting Helena
E. Madsen, of Gunnison, Harriet M.
Brown, of Kanab, Martha A. Cannon,
Washington, D. C., and Lucy S. Cardon,
of Logan, Utah.
	An enjoyable afternoon was passed and
the ladies were happy in having the oppor-
tunity of social conversation and inter-
change of ideas, which helps to create
union of effort in philanthropic work.
	Thanks to Sister Julina L. Smith for the
happy occasion.


A SOCIAL AFTERNOON.
	A social gathering or party was given
by Sisters Sarah J., Martha T. and Carlie
Y. Cannon, on Tuesday, April 22 ult., to
about fifty ladies at the residence of C. Y.
Cannon. The handsome hall, parlors and
dining room were beautifully decorated
and the company was of a social nature,
conversation enlivening, interspersed with
music, songs, etc.
	Little Miss Ann Cannon gave some
humorous recitations, Miss Vera Cannon,
who has a fine voice, sang, in her best
style, songs old and new. Miss Hester
Cannon, a skillful musician, favored the
company with some choice piano music
and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon gave a
favorite recitation and the hours flew
swiftly by.
	A delicious luncheon was served in the
spacious dining room, large enough to
seat all the guests. Sister M. Isabella
Horne, the oldest lady present, pronounced
the blessing. The tables were prettily
decorated with flowers and a happy feeling
pervaded the company, who all seemed to
to enjoy the appetizing viands.
	Such hours of social intercourse are
good for all, and and endear to each other
those whose time is so occupied in
everyday pursuits that they have little op-
portunity to meet and greet neighbors and
friends. To bring congenial friends to-


gether for social enjoyment is to confer
a real benefit as well as pleasure. 
Hand grasps hand, eye lights eye in good friend-
	ship,
And great hearts expand, and grow, one in the
	sense of this world’s life.


SILK CULTURE.
	Silk is a valuable article, either in its
culture or manufacture; that it does not
stand out as one of the leading industries
of our State today is a silent reproach to
the intelligence, the industry, the patience
of its people, as for many hundred years
the silk worm has been inextricably asso-
ciated among the industrial types of highly
refined people attaining the upper strata of
culture and civilization; the adornment,
the luxury and the fountains of wealth to
nations who have lifted themselves above
the pursuit of those coarser industrial avo-
cations of mankind. It is the jewel of the
great agricultural diadem with which
society has crowned itself, as a splendid
testimony of its highest achievements in
its conflict with the coarse habits and tastes
which have retarded communities in their
aim at refinement.
	In the early days of our country Silk
Culture was the amusement of our grand-
mothers. Before the Revolution the
smoothly woven and splendidly colored
gowns made by those venerable women
were the pride of the household, and the
envy of their homespun-clad rivals; and
consignments of raw silk sent to our
mother country at one time inspired the
hope that the means hdd been found to
thwart her hereditary enemy, France. Yet
all these efforts sank into oblivion, and
our country yielded the main-spring which
has proven to be a powerful agent in the
spread of commerce.
	We can almost say that Nature has
planted the mulberry in the valleys among
our high mountains, and has accompanied
it with a climate so thoroughly adapted to
the silk worm; that the intelligence and
skill of our women should apply it to their
improvement, and no time will ever be
better than the present to avail ourselves
of the opportunity to establish our own silk
industry, and the hope that perhaps in the
future we might throw off a dependence
which annually costs our country more
than eighty millions of dollars, challenges
us to a trial of the silk industry.
	As a result of the work which has been
done since the appointment of our Com-
mission we are able to give the follow-
ing table which we hope will prove an im-
petus to many in the State to set out trees
and utilize the leaves of those already
grown, so they may gain an understanding
of the work, and that the production of the
coming year may greatly exceed that of
the past. Two hundred mulberry trees
will grow very well on two acres of land.
A good medium sized tree will yield 150
pounds of leaves, which will give 30,000
pounds on two acres. As it takes seven-
teen pounds of leaves to make one pound of
fresh cocoons, 30,000 pounds will give
1,765 pounds of fresh cocoons. The 1,765
pounds of fresh cocoons will make 600
pounds of dried cocoons, which, if of good
quality, are worth $600 at once; if they can
be reeled by the same people the silk will
be worth $1200.
	The expenses of cultivating two acres in
trees, feeding the worms, etc., may be
stated as follows:


One grown person, first ten days at $1.50
per day, $15.00; two boys or girls, first
ten days, 25cts per day, $5.00; two grown
persons, second ten days, $1.50 per day,
$30.00; five boys or girls, second ten days,
25cts. per day, $12.50; three grown per-
sons, third ten days, $1.50 per day.
$45 00; sixteen boys or girls, third ten
days, 25cts. per day, $40.00; total $147.00.
	We also give the following extracts from
a letter written by a lady who has had
considerable experience in raising silk in
Springville. While the values are very
low, it will give some idea of the loss we
are annually sustaining:
	“Presuming upon the number of forty
thousand families in Utah, and that each
family raises only twenty pounds of
cocoons, the bounty alone on this would
be $5.00 to each family, which means
$200,000 to the State alone; but let us
carry these figures further: Twenty pounds
of cocoons would produce four pounds of
reeled silk, which at $4 00 a pound is $21.00
to each family and $840,000 to the State. But
if each family should produce forty pounds,
which can be done in every house that has
a boy ten years old to gather the leaves,
this would give the sum of $1,680,000
yearly. I trust this statement will appeal
so strongly to all that they will not allow
this golden opportunity to pass unheeded
and thus prevent employment to hundreds
of our sons and daughters. We have
quality, what we want is quantity to en-
courage capital to establish mills.”
	Since the Commission began their work
many thousand trees have been added to
those planted years ago, and while we feel
greatly encouraged with the work which
has been accomplished we are very anxious
to extend the work as fast as possible,
and every woman who raises a few pounds
of cocoons in her house will some day see
that she has done much towards this great
enterprise which will eventually prove one
of the foundation stones upon which the
prosperity of our State shall stand.
			MARGARET A. CAINE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM BROOKLYN.
	The Society in Brooklyn was organized
with eleven members by Elder J. H. Gar-
rett, president of the Brooklyn conference,
with Sister Estella Milligan as president,
Sister Sarah McKenna and Sister C. D.
Laine counselors, and Sister Belle Shaffer
secretary and treasurer, on March 6, 1900.
Work was carried on by the officers until
Sister Milligan moved from the Conference.
The society was reorganized on July 27,
1900, with Sister Agnes Rose Lane, presi-
dent, Sister C. D. Laine and Sister Lillian
Stillman, counselor and Sister Belle Shaffer
secretary and treasurer. Since that time
the only change in the organization is the
second counselor, Sister Mary Birchnall,
to fill the vacancy caused by Sister Still-
man moving to Utah.
	The society is now composed of twenty-
four members and our object is the same
as that of other branches of the society
elsewhere. We aim to do relief work
among those who may need it, but make it
a special aim to visit the sick and needy
and also to visit all the Saints and friends
in the conference to help the Elders who
are here as missionaries teach the Gospel.
We hold regular meetings of the society on
the fourth Sunday of every month at the
home of Sister C. D. Laine, at 202 West
23rd St., New York City. These are our

[Column 2]
spiritual meetings and we invite all the
people of the Conference to attend them—
Elders, Saints and friends. The time at
these meetings is taken up by some of the
sisters reading from the Bible and reading
an original composition on some principle
of the Gospel, the subject of the paper is
then open for discussion, and then the rest
of the time is taken up in testimony bear-
ing. We feel that a great amount of good
is done at these meetings by giving us all
a better knowledge of the Gospel truth.
	Once every month the members of the
society meet in a business meeting, and
also once every month we meet at the dif-
ferent homes of the sisters for a sewing
circle. At these we do sewing for those
of our Conference who need help in this
way, especially those with large families.
We have given a number of social gather-
ings to which we invited our friends and
made them acquainted with the members
of the society and also with the Elders and
thereby we think good seed has been
sown that has aided in the missionary work
in our Conference.
	We have in Greater New York a num-
ber of the Saints from Zion, and we appre-
ciate their aid in our society work.
	We have just had the pleasure of having
some of the leaders in Relief Society work
with us: Sister Emmeline B. Wells, Gener-
al Secretary of the Relief Society; Sister
Annie T. Hyde, First Counselor to the
General President, B. W. Smith; Sister Ida
S. Dusenberry, Second Counselor; Sister
Phebe Y. Beattie a member of the General
Board.
	On Tuesday evening, March 4, the
Elders, Saints and friends of the Brooklyn
Conference met at the home of Sister C. D.
Laine and Mrs. Helen Davis, 202 West
23rd St , New York City, to hold their
regular Tuesday night meeting.
	As these sisters who have been men-
tioned, also Sister Christine S. Taylor,
Sister Maria Y. Dougall and others were
there, the meeting was given over into the
hands of the Relief Society, Sister C. D.
Laine, acting president of the society,
presiding in the absence of Sister Agnes
Rose Lane.
	The meeting began by singing, prayer
and the reading of a chapter from the
Bible, after which a few very interesting
and encouraging remarks concerning the
work of women, especially those engaged
in the Relief Society work, were given by
President John G. McQurrie, president of
the Eastern States Mission, and also by
President George A. Goff, President of the
Brooklyn Conference.
	The following named sisters then spoke
in the order given, each bearing a strong
testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel
and of the great work of the Relief Society
all through the Church: Sisters Emmeline
B. Wells, Annie T. Hyde, Ida S. Dusen-
berry, Maria Y. Dougall and Christina S.
Taylor.
	Each said she knew Joseph Smith was a
prophet of God, and that the work he
established was of God. Sister Wells bore
an exceptionally strong testimony that
Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, telling
us of the first time she met him and of her
feelings upon that occasion; her whole
being was so filled with joy that a thrill
went through her like a shock of electricity
when she first shook hands with him.
That testimony has ever remained with
her. Many good, encouraging remarks

[Column 3]
were given for all present and we certainly
had a spiritual feast.
	On Thursday evening, March 6, the
Brooklyn Conference Relief Society and
Elders gave an entertainment in the par-
lors at 250 West 23rd St., New York City,
in honor of our visiting sisters. The enter-
tainment consisted of a short but very
good program, refreshments and dancing.
Speeches were made by President McQuar-
rie, Sister Hyde and Sister Susa Y. Gates.
We had the pleasure of listening to the
beautiful singing of Miss Emma Lucy
Gates and Miss Ruth Wilson, the latter is
here studying. Both were at their best
and all enjoyed their singing greatly.
There were over one hundred present and
all seemed well pleased.
	Monday, March 17, we celebrated the
sixtieth anniversary of the organization of
the Relief Society by holding a meeting in
the A. B. C. Building, 67 West 125th St.,
New York City. There were present the
sisters from Zion, all the Elders of the
Brooklyn Conference, President McQuarrie
and counselors, of the Eastern States
Mission, members of our society and a
number of Saints and friends, about sixty
people present, Sister C. D. Lane presid-
ing. “Singing, Jesus once of humble
birth.” Prayer was offered by Brother
Willard Young. Singing, “Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.”
	Sister Beatie gave a fine talk on the life
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, how, when
and why he organized the Relief Society.
Spoke very feelingly of the life and works
of Sister Emma Smith, the first president
of the society, also of Sister Eliza R. Snow
Sister Zina D. H. Young and Sister B W.
Smith, the present president of the society,
gave some good instructions to the
society here. Sister Dougall also bore a
strong testimony to the truthfulness
of the Gospel and the divine mission of
Joseph Smith as a prophet of God.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates spoke very feeling-
ly of the sacrifices and hardships that the
pioneers of Utah had to undergo. Showed
how so many had suffered for the Gospel’s
sake, and how they had been blessed for so
doing. Urged all to be willing to do the
same and to not think they are the only
ones who had done so.
	Sister Taylor, of Provo, Utah spoke a
short time after which the meeting was
turned into a regular testimony meeting
for all present, especially the sisters. Near-
ly every woman present bore her testi-
mony, a number of whom were not mem-
bers of the Church.
	By request President McQuarrie spoke a
short time and a number of the Elders bore
their testimonies. All felt that the Spirit
of God was with us and we indeed had a
spiritual feast. Sister C. D. Laine ex-
pressed the sentiments of all when she said
that we felt more than blest by having the
great privilege of having the sisters from
Zion with us and that we wished them God
speed on their homeward journey.
	We were asked to remember in our
prayers Sister Lucy Becroft, our lady mis-
sionary from Utah, who had the misfor-
tune some months ago of spraining her
knee.
	 Closing hymn, “O, my Father.” Bene-
diction by President George A. Goff.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			BELLE SHAFFER, Sec.

	Since the writing of the above a class for
Gospel instruction has been formed under


the auspices of our society, with Sister
Susa Young Gates, who intends remaining
in New York City for some time, for the
teacher. The class has had two lessons,
each on Faith. The class will meet once a
week, every Thursday, fourteen attended
last week. The class is open for names,
whether society members or not.
		B.S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

			JULIA S MCKEE.

	The grim reaper, Death, visited our Relief
Society, November 12 of the present year and
took from us our faithful and beloved first vice-
president, Julia Sophia Raymond McKee.
	She was ill several months with dropsy, but the
strong will which enabled her to conquer many
difficulties kept her in the faithful performance of
her duties until five weeks before her death. Only
one week would she consent to have any assistance
excepting from her granddaughter, Miss Pearl
Riley, who lived with her. Then all that loving
care could do was done to comfort her in her last
hours, She was cheerful to the last, her greatest
desire was not to be a burden.
	Sister McKee was born February 9, 1831, at
Hempstead, Long Island, N. Y She had an
early religious training and records in her diary
that in her seventh year, while returning
from Sabbath School, she saw a stranger preach-
ing to a crowd of people.
	As she drew near to the crowd he prophesied
that a disease would come among them that
would cause the death of many of their children;
and that shortly after this a strange doctrine
would be introduced to them. No one knew from
whence he came or where he went.
	When Julia was in her tenth year she saw the
prediction fulfilled, the scarlet fever being the
disease spoken of and the strange doctrine which
followed was the Gospel as taught by the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Her parents
embraced the same and she was baptized of
her own accord when thirteen years of age by
Elder Theodore Curtis.
	She moved with her parents to Nauvoo in 1845
and passed through the persecutions at that time
without a word of complaint. She was married
to Hugh McKee at Winter Quarters November
2, 1849. He went away to work and during the
year of his abs[-]nce Julia’s mother died and her
father gave her the baby, Annie, which she raised
as her own child.
	They arrived in Salt Lake City September 15,
1852, and cheerfully met and overcame the trials
incident to that early day. Concerning the fam-
ine she says, “During the summer of 1856 I had
very little bread, but the Lord caused weeds to
grow in abundance where they had not grown be-
fore. We had more milk than we had other
years and we lived on weeds and milk. I know
the Lord blessed us in these valleys of the
mountains. During all the time that we were
without bread my children never asked for it, but
ate such as we had and were satisfied.
	Sister McKee was the mother of six children,
one of whom died in infancy. She had forty-six
grandchildren, thirty-six of whom are living, and
eighteen great grandchildren, seventeen living.
	She has lived at South Cottonwood, Palmyra,
Spanish Fork, Santaquin, Goshen and Hunting-
ton. She has assisted the poor and sick and
cared for the dead since she was fourteen years
old. She also labored for a long time as a
teacher in the Sunday School and Relief Society,
and also assisted in religion class work.
	For more than twelve years she has had charge
of the sacrament dishes and furnished bread for
the same, not once failing to have it ready at the
proper time.
	She assisted her husband in caring for and dis-
bursing the fast offerings under the direction of
the Bishop, until her husband’s death three years
ago. Since then she has had that responsibility
herself.
	For eleven years she was secretary in the
Huntington Relief Society and was chosen last
February as first vice-president in the same, filling
these offices with the same zeal and integrity that
has characterized her whole life. She was a good
neighbor and despised gossip and scandal.
	We mourn her absence but rejoice in her rest,
for we know she will receive the reward of the
faithful. 
				MARY  E. WESTOVER,
				MARY S. FOWLER,
							Committee,


A FAITHFUL SISTER GONE.
	We are called upon to chronicle the death of
our dearly beloved sister and mother, Sister
Tryphena Fairchilds, who departed this life
November 24, 1901, at the home of her daughter,
Tryphena Bryson, at Woodruff, Utah, after being
confined to her bed for five years from the effects
of a stroke that prevented her from raising her
body, but she suffered very little until the last two
weeks. All that loving hands could do was done
for her until she passed away, her daughter never
tiring in trying to make her life comfortable
through all the years she could not help herself.
	Aunt Phena, as she was called by her friends,
was in her eighty-seventh year, but her mind was
bright and clear and her countenance as noble as
only a daughter of Zion’s can be, she was affected
in body only.
	The funeral took place November 26, the High
Council of the Woodruff Stake being the pall
bearers. The speakers were Elders William H.
Lee, S. C. Putman, A. C. Call, President J. M.
Baxter, Bishop Peter McKinnon and William
Longherst. All said she had fought the good
fight and kept the faith, that her life had been an
exemplary one. During the years she was con-
fined to her bed she never complained, but always
said she was ready to go when her heavenly
Father saw fit to call her home. She was laid to
rest on the hillside with some of her dear friends
who had gone before.
			BIOGRAPHICAL.
	Tryphena Pomeroy Fairchilds was born June
28, 1815, at Homer, Courtland Co., N. Y. She
lived with her parents. Charles and Polly Pomer-
oy until she was eighteen years of age. She then
married William Lewis, by whom she had two
children. He only lived four years after they
were married and a few months after the father’s
death the little boy died. Now she was left alone
with her baby girl, she had no home and had to
work for her living. Her father was a farmer
and had taught her to spin flax and wool and she
also learned to braid palm leaf hats. She lived a
widow for seven years, then she married John
Fairchilds, a widower with a family nearly all
grown, by whom she had two more children, a
girl and a boy. She lived with this husband about
eight years, then they separated. the father taking
the boy.
	She then went to visit her sister, Lucy Wood,
in Michigan. where she heard two Mormon mis-
sionaries preach. She investigated the doctrine
and embraced it, being baptized January 28,
1858 by Elder Oscar Stodard. Her eldest
daughter being married there was only herself
and daughter Tryphena, but her father and
mother, sisters and brother lived near, yet only
herself and daughter and sister Lucy and family
joined the Church. They with a few friends
wanted to gather with the Saints in Utah, so by
working and saving for many months, she with
the rest started April 18th, 1859, in the company
of James S. Brown, traveling in ox teams driving
one herself most of the way. They arrived in
Salt Lake City, August 29, 1859.
	She worked from one place to another for sever-
al years, making clothes, spinning and weaving,
she spun the cotton and made the warp and made
linsey. She lived in Salt Lake City until 1867,
when her daughter was married to Samuel Bryson.
They lived in Bountiful until 1871, and then
moved to Woodruff, Utah. She taught school
there for a few years. She was second counselor
in the Relief Society for years until circumstances
would not permit. She was always a friend to
the poor and sick. When dreaded diseases were
raging and others were afraid she would go and
take care of them, never thinking of herself.
After her strength was exhausted in that way and
she was not able to stand hard work, she made
quilts and Temple clothes for the sisters. She was
handy with her needle, making very pretty em-
broidery and patchwork. She passed through a
great many trials but never complained, and died
as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.
						ELIZA COOK.


REUNION.
	The Relief Society of the St. Joseph
Stake met in reunion Monday, March 17,
1902, at the Werch Opera House in Pima,
with President Elizabeth Layton in charge.
	At one o’clock p. m. the members and
invited guests began gathering at the hall,
where they were received by the reception
committee, which consisted of all the Stake


officers of the Relief Society. By two p.
m., the hour appointed for commencing the 
exercises, between two and three hundred
society workers were present to enjoy the 
literary program which had been previous-
ly arranged, consisting of songs, recitations, 
readings and music, interspersed with 
addresses by Presidents Anderson, Kimball, 
Patriarch Claridge and others. 
Counselor Adelia Curtis in a few well 
chosen words welcomed all present in her 
usual happy style, which resulted in 
every one feeling free and at ease. 
Counselor Mary L. Ransom gave a brief 
history of the Relief Society of this Stake 
since its organization.
	President Kimball was instrumental in 
having a resolution adopted in which any 
member of the Relief Society of the St. 
Joseph Stake would work with untiring
energy and zeal until they had enrolled 
one member in the society for each family
in the Stake. After the rendition of the
program, a sumptuous luncheon, which
had been prepared by the good sisters was 
served while all enjoyed themselves chat-
ting, receiving old acquaintances and form-
ing new ones. 
	In the evening a goodly number partici-
pated in a dancing party which proved a 
financial as well as a social success..
				SARAH WEBB, Sec,


KANSAS CITY CONFERENCE.
	Minutes in brief of the Relief Society
of Kansas City, Jackson Co., Missouri,
which was held September 27, 1902, in the
hall at 1107 East 19th Street, with Presi-
dent Estella Milligan presiding. Services
began with singing, “Do what is right.”
Prayer by Jas. G. Duffin, president of the
Southwestern States mission. Singing,
“We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
	President Estella Milligan made a few
appropriate remarks, said she felt very glad
to meet with the sisters of Utah, as Sister
Sarah J. Cannon, Annie T. Hyde and her
daughter Jean were present, having come
to visit the different branches of the society
in the mission.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde was then intro-
duced. She spoke of the organization of
the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph at
Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, with
Sister Emma Smith as President. Gave
instances in her own life of blessings re
ceived by doing her duty in the Relief
Society work Gave statistics pertaining
to the growth of the work, and said many
interesting and gratifying things, which
were highly appreciated by all present.
	Sister Jean Hyde read the address de-
livered by President Lorenzo Snow to the
Relief Society at Saltair, July 9, 1901.
	Sister Amelia B. Carling, missionary
from Orderville, Utah, bore a faithful test-
imony to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
Was glad to have the privilege of defend-
ing God’s work in the land of promise.
	President Jas. G. Duffiin was the next
speaker. He said he was very much
pleased to have the sisters of Utah with us
Spoke at some length encouraging the
sisters in the work. Bore his testimony
that the organization of the Relief Society
was inspired of the Lord. Spoke of the
Woman’s Building at Salt Lake City and
encouraged the sisters to contribute to the
same.
	President Estella Milligan made a few
closing remarks and the meeting closed by


[Column 1]
singing, “O, my Father," and benediction
by Elder Fred H. Bradshaw.
	Afternoon session began by singing,
“High on the mountain top.” Prayer by
Brother Preator, of Independence. Singing
“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
	Sister Amelia B. Carling said she felt
like doing her duty in helping to roll on
this great work, was thankful she was
born in this day and age of the world when
the Gospel had been restored to the earth,
and that she knew Joseph Smith was a
prophet of God.
	President Estella A. Milligan said the
sisters from Utah desired to hear the testi-
monies of the sisters.
	Sister Lenora J. McCarthy said she felt
like doing her duty and exerting every
effort to build up the Relief Society.
	Sister Almyra Hines, of Independence,
felt thankful to have the privilege of
meeting the sisters from Utah.
	Sister Margaret Hutchinson, of Indepen-
dence, asked the sisters to assist her with
their faith and prayers. She felt pleased to
meet with us in conference and to meet the
sisters from Utah.
	Elder David O. Allen, Brother Preator,
Sister Louisa Preator, Sister Almyra Hines
with Sister Lucy Hines at the organ enter-
tained the audience with singing a quartet.
	Sister Elizabeth Roller was thankful the
Elders brought the glad news of the Gospel
to her.
	Sister Lucy Hines of Independence, felt
like doing her best in the work of the
Lord.
	Sister Dora McDonald was glad to meet
the sisters from Utah, and Sister Sarah
Long asked for the faith and prayers of the
sisters. Sister Susan F. Pletts was thank-
ful for the privilege of coming to the meet-
ing and glad to meet the sisters who had
come so far for the Gospel’s sake and to
instruct us in the Relief Society work,
	Sister Sarah E. Giles was glad she was
a Latter-day Saint, and Sister Ellen Swan-
son felt like doing her part in the Relief
Society work.
	Mrs. Turner, mother of President Estella
Milligan, bore a faithful testimony al-
though she is not a member of the Church,
but hopes to be some day, and asked the
Saints for their prayers.
	First Counselor Kate Brown was glad to
meet the sisters from Utah and have the
privilege of hearing them speak. 
	President Estella Milligan said the Lord
had heard, and answered her prayers
many times.
	Second Counselor Louisa Preator, of
Independence; spoke and bore a faithful
testimony to the truthfulness of the Gos-
pel. She was glad to meet with the Saints
in conference, and intends to live true and
faithful and do all she can to help build up
the Relief Society work in this the chosen
land.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon said if we would
live up to the requirements of the Gospel
the Lord would be our help. Our mothers
should be thankful for the title, for it is the
greatest blessing given to women.

[Column 2]
Sister Amelia Carling sang a solo, en-
titled, “Scenes of Childhood.”
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said when she
looked over the audience and saw so many
young men who had left their homes and
loved ones for the purpose of preaching
the Gospel, it brought tears to her eyes.
Knew their mothers and sisters would be
proud of them could they have the privi-
lege of looking into their bright faces to-
day. “We mothers should be thankful to
have our sons fill this position. If the
sisters here would be faithful it would as-
sist greatly in rolling on the Lord’s work
in the center Stake of Zion. We mothers
should be proud of our children and train
them up to be useful men and women.
Spoke of the responsibility of mothers in
training their children.
	President Jas. G. Duffin spoke of the
perfect order that prevails in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and of
the rights of the women to preside in
their own meetings. “Woman’s place is
beside man, not at his feet.” Said many
things pertaining to the responsibility of
mothers in raising their families, and that
this organization would prepare mothers for
their duties to their families.
	Elder Fred H. Bradshaw said the day
had come when men were willing to assist
women in doing good.
	Singing, “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.” Conference ad-
journed for six months. Benediction by
Elder Geo. E. Brown.
		LEONORA J. MCCARTHY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
   WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage.  We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money,							      TRY US
					[To the left of "TRY US" there appears to be a symbol/logo]
			
[Column 2]				
Save Your Money!

	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.

	    Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.

	    The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order.  Have
	you such an account?  If not, open
	one NOW

	    We pay FOUR PER CENT IN
	TEREST on any amount from one dol
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.

WRITE for any information desired.
		       LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		       GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


[Column 1]
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI.
	Here in the great city of Kansas, Mo.,
among her thousands of inhabitants, is a
band of sisters few in number but united
in purpose. That purpose is one that
teaches every true woman to love her
Maker, to honor the priesthood of God, to
prize virtue and purity as her life, to ad-
minister to the wants of the poor and
needy, to visit the afflicted and to love all
God's creatures.
	“The Elevation of Woman” is our
motto, and when woman reaches that
standard, when she can say that her mind
and body are pure, then the day must
come when man must also forsake sin, for
vice and virtue cannot dwell together. For
a wise purpose God has placed us here on
earth. The mission of his daughters is to
become wives and mothers, and when one
is a true wife and mother she has attained
the highest position a woman can occupy
on this earth.
	On the 17th of March the Relief Society
met at 1421 Locust St, at 8 o'clock, with
all the members and their husbands pres-
ent, also the president and counselors of
the Southwestern States mission, eighteen
Elders and the two lady missionaries.
	We sang “We thank Thee, O God for a
prophet.” Prayer was offered by Elder
Charles England. Our president, Sister
Estella Milligan, in a few well chosen

[Column 2]
words expressed her pleasure in being per-
mitted to meet with the sisters on the
sixtieth anniversary of the organization of
the Relief Society.
	Miss Pearl and Mr. William Smedley
then sang.
	President James G. Duffin gave a very
interesting sketch on the organization of
the Relief Society and its progress up to
the present time.
	The lady missionaries were represented
by Sister Sarah M. Giles, who gave in
brief but pointed words our aim in the
mission work: to be true representatives of
the daughters of Zion, to assist our sisters
in gaining the blessings to be obtained
through the Relief Society: one of the
highest aims of which is to qualify the
sisters for the most important and honor-
able position given to woman, that of
being a true mother in Israel, and to train
up her children in righteousness.
	President Estella Milligan then presented
Sister Mary Smedley with a silver bread
tray as a token of remembrance for her un-
tiring efforts while acting as secretary in 
the society. Sister Smedley thanked the
sisters for the token of appreciation and
assured them that the memory of her work
in the Relief Society would always bring
pleasure. She leaves for her home in
Utah, April I.
	The remainder of the evening was spent
in social chat, refreshments were served
and at eleven o’clock benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder Adams.
		MARUTHEA ATKINSON.


“Miss Clara Barton and Mrs. J. Ellen 
Foster have been appointed by the State
Department at Washington as two of the
six delegates on the part of the United
States to the Seventh International Red
Cross Conference to be held at St. Peters-
burg, Russia, May 16-29. The other
delegates are: Rear Admiral W. K. Van
Reypen, ex-Surgeon General of the Navy,
retired, Washington, D. C.; Col. Nicholas
Senn, Surgeon General, Illinois State
Militia, Chicago; and Mr. B.F. Tillinghast,
editor of the Democrat and Gazette of Da-
venport, Iowa, U. S. Military Attache at
the Embassy at St. Petersburg, represent-
ing the Army. Mr. Tillinghast gathered
the shipload of corn sent to the famine
sufferers in Russia a few years ago. Mrs.
Foster will sail April 30 by the American
Line.”


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

