
Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

				Vol. 30	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1901.	No. 1


CONTENTS.
Prominent Women Visitors.............The Editor	1
Autobiography of Sarah B. Layton.................	1
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting, J. S. Woolley	2
A Tribute of Respect to the Latter-day Saints–
	.........................................Mary F. Kelley	3
An Item of History..........Bathsheba W. Smith	3
Reorganization Nineteenth Ward.......H. B. H.	3
San Francisco Relief Society...Mina A. Towne	3
Supplementary....................................E. B. W.	5
A Faithful Woman....................Euphrasia Day	6
Around Pacatello Stake.........Martha Scadden	6
Obituary..........................................................	6
R. S. Reports...................................................	7
Mrs. F. S. Richards..............................E. B. W.	7
Domestic Life and the Professions.E. R. Shipp	7
EDITORIAL—Important Notice.....................	4
	The New Volume.....................................	4
	One Hundred Years..................................	4
	Editorial Notes.........................................	4
POETRY—What of the Hour....Susa. Y. Gates	1


WHAT OF THE HOUR!

Watchman, what of the Hour?
War with his lusty lungs,
Cries aloud in ten thousand tongues,
Greed in a palace still holds sway
While poverty weeps in her hut today.
Dark and drear is the outer gloom,
But the hills of the East with promise bloom.

Watchman, what of the Hour? 
Art with a troubled air
Is sketching here and singing there,
Science bold, in spite of the dark,
On even religion has set his mark.

Watchman, what of the Hour ?
Love, with a hundred wiles
Hath dropped his standard, cheapened his
	smiles,
Manly virtue is a thing to find,
While womanly patience seems left behind,
Dark and drear is the outer gloom,
Yet the hills of the East with promise bloom.

Watchman, what of the Hour?
Faith with her gentle grace
Hath met with Science face to face.
Bigotry pipes, they dance to his call,
But truth waits ashamed in the outer hall,
O, dark and drear is the outer gloom,
But the hills of Zion with promise bloom.

Watchman, what of the Hour?
Fear with a terrible shout
Hath slain Restraint and let men out,
But Hope with grace and manner mild,
Hath set in their midst an Innocent Child.
Charity bends with her generous gifts,
O'er sickness and sorrow her cross she lifts.

Watchman, what of the Hour?
War hath a myriad stings
But Mercy stoops low with healing wings.
Both Science and Art will some day wed,
And religion will bless their marriage bed. 
If dark and drear be the outer gloom,
Lo, the hills of Truth with promise bloom,
	The watchmen sing
	Together shall they sing!
For they shall see eye to eye, when they bring
	again Zion!
				SUSA YOUNG GATES.


[Column 1]
PROMINENT WOMEN VISITORS.
	Mrs. Mary Urquhart Lee, who in Salt
Lake City gave lessons in Parliamentary
Law and the art of expression, had an
opportunity not long since to speak before
the California Club in San Francisco and
gave her opinion of the “Economical and
Industrial Condition of Women in Utah.”
We are very grateful to Mrs. Lee and glad
that she had the courage to speak in a large
gathering of women of the world, the
fashionable society of the metropolis. The
newspapers reported Mrs. Lee thus: “She

[Column 2]
emphasized their immense purposefulness
and their ability to do mental as well as
physical drudgery. She attributed their
attainments to the religious influence which
caused them to do much public speaking,
to the fact that they had to be producers as
well as consumers, to the altitude in which
they live, which was conducive to mental
activity, and to the full freedom they en-
joyed under equal suffrage. She devoted
some time to telling of the progress made
in silk culture.”
	Mrs. Martindale, of England, and her
two talented daughters paid a visit to this
office during the month of May. We had
the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Martindale at
the International Council of women in
London, in 1899, and she presided at the
meeting in St. Martin’s Hall on the day
when Mrs. Susa Young Gates gave her
paper on Domestic Service, a subject in
which she is much interested. She felt
greatly disappointed at not meeting Mrs.
Gates here. The mother and daughters
had been making a tour of many countries,
visited the Holy Land, India, Australia,
New Zealand, New South Wales and the
most interesting Eastern cities of European
countries. Mrs. Martindale has a residence
in Brighton and is president of the Brigh-
ton Woman’s Liberal Association. One of
her daughters is a physician and the other
an inspector of public institutions for chil-
dren. The ladies visited all the historic
places of interest in the city and were
greatly pleased with what they saw and
heard while here.
	We were very agreeably surprised on
June 8 by a call from Mrs. Mary Lowe
Dickinson, of New York City. Mrs.
Dickinson was en route to Portland where she
is to give some lectures, thence to British
Columbia, where she has several appoint-
ments. She intends returning via Salt
Lake City, and will remain here two or
three days. Mrs. Dickinson is well known
in the United States and in foreign lands as
secretary of the King’s Daughters, an
International society which is one of the
largest organizations in the world, and has
done and is doing a magnificent work
among young women. Mrs. Dickinson
does much work through the medium of
the Silver Cross, a monthly magazine issued
by the Society of King’s Daughters. She
is the author of a number of books of both
prose and poetry. Our sisters know Mrs.
Dickinson through the National Council of
Women of the United States, of which she
was at one time president and is now one
of the honorary presidents. She is known
far and wide in educational work, gives
lectures in colleges and Universities on
various subjects of higher education.
When she returns here on her way home
we sincerely hope she may have the oppor-
tunity of addressing our young people in
one or more of the institutions of learning
in Utah, and of meeting more of our people
and visiting places of interest. Mrs. Mary
Lowe Dickinson ranks high among the
celebrated women of the age.
	Mrs. Josefa Humpal Zeman is another
celebrated woman who visited Salt Lake
recently and spent about ten days here.

[Column 3]
She was accompanied by her sister, Miss
Zeman and Mrs. Ema Zerzan. All of
them are Bohemians, and have established
themselves in Chicago where they have
lived ever since the Columbian Exposition.
Mrs. Zeman represented Bohemia at the
World’s Congress of Women in 1893, and
attracted a great deal of attention among
club and society women; directly after-
wards she founded a newspaper entitled
Zenske Lisly, the woman’s paper of Little
Bohemia, a part of Chicago where many
Bohemians reside and have their own clubs
and places of amusement, also churches.
The paper is entirely conducted by women
and is now issued weekly though started as
a monthly. Mrs. Zeman has a charming
personality. She enjoyed her visit to Salt
Lake very much. She spoke while here
most entertainingly to the Reapers Club on
Monday afternoon, May 26, and to the
Woman’s Press Club Friday evening, May
31. Below is what one of the Chicago
papers says of this charming Bohemian
woman:

	The personal history of the woman who founded
and now manages and edits Zenske Listy is inter-
esting. Seven years ago she was a delegate to the
World’s Congress of Women. She was born at
Pisek, Bohemia. Her father was a patriot of
intense devotion and became a voluntary exile
from his native land about the time Josefa was
four years old. The family came to America and
the foundations of the daughter’s education were
laid in the public schools of the United States. In
1881 they returned to Bohemia. Then the little
Josefa was given a taste of the native institutions.
She had a private tutor for awhile who awakened
in her an ardent admiration for the history, the
development and the civilization of her own land.
Afterwards she attended the high school of Pisek
and became confirmed in these deep-rooted emo-
tions of loyal affection to the fatherland.
	Her family returned again to America after
three years, and went to Chicago to reside.
Josefa desired above everything to respond to the
stimulating atmosphere of progress about her and
to assist her countrywomen to do likewise. There
appears to be that in the Slavic woman which
was formerly in the Huns—a mental unrest which
makes for a forward and upward movement of an
epoch-making profoundity.
	Of the Slavic race was Sonya Krukovsky
Kavalensky and Marie Bashkirtseff, both of whom
astounded the world with their masculine genius.

	There are many points of special interest
connected with this charming woman 
which we may give our readers at another
time. At the World’s Congress of
Women she came to be known as “the elo-
quent little Bohemian,” and was at that
time elected a vice-president of the Inter-
national Council of Women.
						EDITOR.


00AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON.
(Continued.)
The next spring we fenced a field and
planted some potatoes and wheat and were
beginning to feel at home. But that fall
(1857) word came to us that all the mission-
aries were to come home on account of the
threatening trouble at home. We now
set to work gathering up what we could and
preparing to start home. Some of the peo-
ple had sold their teams and wagons and
could not return, so they remained. We
took what we could and left the rest, and


September 1st found us ready to start for
Salt Lake City. The weather was cold and
the snow made it unpleasant for us. We
landed at Kaysville, November 1st. We
had no home to go to and winter was
coming. But we secured two small rooms
and settled down. Brother Layton was
called to go to Salmon river to assist the
people from that place, so we were left
alone again. Shortly after he started Bishop
Allen Taylor came and told us that we
must fix up our wagons and be ready to
start south in about two or three weeks.
We told him that we did not know what to
do, but that we would do the best we could
to get ready. Brother Layton came home
in about six weeks and when we told him
about it he said that he could not get ready
to start before early spring, as the teams
were worn out and there was not
much feed for them. But he finally decided
to go and we started not knowing where we
were going. This was the move.
When we reached Salt Lake City we
stopped there a short time. Our next camp-
ing place was at Utah Lake there the wind
and sand made it very unpleasant for us, so
we did not stay there very long, but moved
on to American Fork.
About the last of June word was received
for the people to return home. Brother
Layton with part of his family returned
immediately to see after the things and the
remaining part came along about the sixth
of July, tired and worn out. On the
eleventh I had another son born, whom we
called Ezra William. Soon after harvest
we bought a place known as the prairie
house, to which place we moved and
lived about a year. Then I went to live
alone in Kaysville, where I lived alone
during the winter. In the spring of 1860
we bought a farm of a man by the name of
George Allen, and on the fourth of April I
moved to that place and lived there alone
until the fall. October 17, 1860, another
son was born to me and we gave him the
name of David Edwin. In the spring of
1861 Brother Layton built a large house and
moved part of his family together. He
moved me to Salt Lake where I lived six
months and then returned to Kaysville,
and then moved down on the old farm
where Sarah and I lived,and the other three
wives, Isabelle, Caroline and Rose, had
homes elsewhere in Kaysville.
On January 25th I had another daughter
born and she was named Ann Barnes.
That year, October 25, 1863, Sarah Martin
Layton died, the cause being a cancer in
her breast. That was a hard blow to us.
all. She left two sons and one daughter,
four having preceded her to the great be-
yond. Her death was a very hard thing
for me to overcome, as we had been friends
from childhood, we had been more than
sisters. She was of a kind and gentle dis-
position, and unselfish in her nature. She
suffered untold pain for several months be-
fore death came to her relief. She was a
very worthy woman and her place has
never been filled. After her death I did not
live with any of the rest of the family, I
had several different homes. Her oldest son
lived with me until a short time before his
marriage, and when he left his younger
brother came and lived with me. They
seemed to be peacemakers wherever they
went.
I lived on the farm about four years.
While there in the old home, and on the
4th of September, 1865, my last child, a
daughter was born, and we called her Sarah
Elizabeth. I did some moving around until
1872, when I moved to the fort and have
lived there since. But many and varied
are the changes I have passed through, but
the Lord gave me strength to hold fast to
the Iron Rod for which I have ever been
thankful.
November 25, 1868 my mother died at
the age of seventy-four. Dropsy was the
cause of her death. She was buried in the
Kaysville cemetery. We missed her very
much, but we realized that parting must
come to all, though it is hard to part with
loved ones. My father lived alone in the
old home and cared for his garden, his
stock and fowls. He was an early riser and
always retired early; he did not know what
sickness was, and was always happy and
contented.
When I settled in Kaysville I began
dress making and worked very hard for a
living and to sustain my family. At the
organization of the Relief Society I was
chosen to be second counselor to my sister
who was chosen president. She occupied
that position until her death, June 5, 1871.
At that time Sister Mary Ann Hyde suc-
ceeded her, and I was chosen first
counselor.
In 1873 my eldest daughter learned tele-
graphy and took a position in the Utah
Central office and worked there five years.
In December of that year my eldest son was
married to Mary Egbert. He lived here
until January 1875 when he went with Lot
Smith as a missionary to Arizona.
Dress making was my work most of the
time, and the Lord blessed me in my work.
I made and mended clothes and cared for my
children. I had no one to give me a word
of encouragement or comfort, for I had
long since learned not to put my trust in
the arm of flesh. I knew that the principle
of plural marriage was true, and that I had
entered it of my own free will and choice,
with the determination to serve the Lord,
and was willing to bear my cross as best I
could. Many things crossed my lonely
path that were very unpleasant, but I be-
lieve that the race is not to the swift nor
the battle to the strong, but to those who
endure to the end. Had not my Father in
heaven had a watch care over me, I do not
know where I might have drifted had not
some unseen power watched me. But He
knew the many sacrifices I had made in
many ways to hold on to my children, and
He has given me the strength as I have
needed it so far. Many a time I was
tempted to do things that to me seemed
would bring happiness, but my own soul
told me that they would grieve the Spirit
of the Lord, and I was restrained, for I
knew that if I did as He commanded He
would not cast me off. I do not take any
of the credit to myself for not taking the
wrong course. The Lord was ever mindful
of me and did not suffer any more tempta-
tions to come along than He gave me
strength to bear up against.
In 1878 my daughter Mary Ann married
George Swan, and Ann B. took the position
in the telegraph office at Woods Cross. My
father died on the 9th of September, 1880,
at the age of ninety years, an honored and
well respected man. Thus one by one my
friends dropped off. I felt then that I was
alone in the world, as my father, mother
and only sister had gone from this world to
rest in peace until they should be awakened
on the morning of the resurrection. Then
we hope to meet to part no more.
I could write many pages telling of the
trials and heart-piercing scenes, that I
have passed through; but it would do no
good. When I put off mortality they can
all be buried with me. I can say with the
poet:

“But out of all the Lord has brought me by His
love,
And still He does His help afford to hide my life
above.”

I have learned in my own experience
that it is better to suffer wrong than it is to
do wrong. We must bear our own cross
and work out our own salvation. Exper-
ence is a good teacher, but he is severe. I
have many times been sick nigh unto death
but through the laying on of hands and the
prayer of faith I have been raised up.

(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies' Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
March 30, 1901, at 2 o'clock, President M.
I. Horne presiding.
	Meeting commenced by singing, "God
moves in a mysterious way." Prayer by
Sister Elizabeth Webb. Singing, "Let us 
pray, gladly pray." Minutes read and ac-
cepted.
	President Horne said she would like all
the wards to pay in the money for the
building as soon as possible. President
Snow did not want the building begun till
$20,000 was received. Said she had visited
Granite Stake this morning, and they were
a thrifty Stake. Spoke of the vastness of
the work of the Relief Society and of the
responsibility of women as mothers,
we are never too old to learn our duty and
do it. Zion is growing and work is in-
creasing, be meek and united. It is the
wish of my heart to always teach the sis-
ters the truth. Spoke with much feeling
of the severe sickness of President George
Q. Cannon who was then in California.
	Counselor Stevenson said she continually
prayed to the Lord that she might see her
own faults and be blind to others. Read a
sketch from a lecture given by Prof. Mutch
on "The Wrong Way to Live." Said she
felt if the Saints had observed the Word of
Wisdom, what a blessed people they would 
be. Believed tea and coffee made people 
nervous.
	Sister Barton said she always felt bene-
fited when she attended these meetings.
She was thankful she knew there was a
God, and a doubt of such a being was
never in her mind.
	Sisters Corbett, Barnes, Wright, Hardy,
Horrocks, Colum, Gunn and Julia S.
Woolley spoke of the Word of Wisdom and
the love they had for the Relief Society.
	Sisters Ball, Ellis and Pond each bore
faithful testimonies of the truth.
	President M. I. Horne said she thought
it would be a good thing if missionaries could
be sent to visit the different branches of the
Relief Society. Spoke of the necessity of
women not aspiring to places they were not
prepared for. All are required to bring
what money they have for the building two
weeks from today, to the officers meeting.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Annie
T. Hyde.
J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
  A TRIBUTE OE RESPECT TO THE 
	   LATTER-DAY SAINTS.

	FROM A FRENCH WOMAN.

	About four years ago Mrs. Eugenie
Cleophas, a distinguished French lady,
visited our capital. She came in connec-
tion with Gentile philanthropic enter-
prise, but was very much interested in the
Relief Society of our Church, and expressed
herself to this effect to the First Presidency
with whom she obtained an interview.
She resides in Wyoming and since her re-
turn she has opened her house to the
Saints for both religious and social func-
tions.
Hearing that a young Mormon sheep-
herder was very sick, with no one to nurse
him but the cattlemen upon the range, she
took him to her home and cared for him
with the greatest solicitude, but in spite of
her efforts he passed away on Fobruary 3,
1901.
	Mrs. Cleophas having been left a widow
at an early age, she was well able to sym-
pathize with the young wife of the deceased
man, and being a poetess, she wrote the
following lines to Sister Park. We give
the original and translation.

	In remembrance of James Park, dedicated to
his widow by their devoted friend, Mrs. Eugenie
Cleophas, who nursed him during his last days
upon this earth.

	A si grande douleur, hélas que peut on dire?
	L'âme brisée se tord en un immense emoi!
	Il semble que jamais on ne pourra sourir
	Car le coeuré perdu, coeur éspardu regarde avec effroi
	Au fond de l'avenir la triste solitude
	Qui atteint pour tonjours celui qui reste en bas
	C'est un morne abandon, une âpre solitude
	Qui vous saisit, vous garde et ne vous quitte pas.

	Quande on s'est tant aimé! se sentir seul sur terer
	Comprendre que jamais on ne se verra plus
	Ne plus se voir! veiller et pleurer solitaire
	C'est l’ombre et le nèant. Et cēux qu òn a pérdus
	Froíds et silancieux, dans leur cercueil de marbre
	Ne verront plus nos pleurs et notre desespoir
	Lorsque le soir venu alors que la nuit tarde
	Vous pensons à l'absent, et renions l'espoir!

	Ah ! 1'espoir nous l'avions jusqu’au dernier sourire
	Du cher mourant. Dans son regarde déjǎ glacè
	Maigre tout, nous cherchions a’y lire.
	Un rayon d'esperance mais Dieu avait placè
	La main sur cette tête, et malgré nos prieres
	La froide mort l'apris; en nous laissant brisés
	Annéanti, perdu, le front dans la poussiére
	Livied, l’oeil atone, en songeant au passè ! 

	Ce passé disparu dans la nuit de la tombe, 
	Se présente à nos yeux entouré de bonheur
	D'illusions, de paix! Et quand tout d'uncoup tombe
	La foudre qui écrase et détruit notre coeur,
	Nons restons ètourdis sous la main qui nous fappe.
	Cherchant ce qui a purendre Dieu si cruel
	Doutant de sa bontè, car son but nous èchappe
	Mais lui avec douceur il nous montre le Ciel.

	C'est là que le mourant en quittant cette terre
	Est allé nons attendre, et d'un bonheur parfait
	Il jouit pour tonjonrs, sans douleur, ni misère
	Sans souci d'avenir. Et quand il nons laissait
	C'ètait pour habiter la céleste demeure
	Que Dieu donne à tons ceux qui souffre ici bas
	Il est lui bien heureux! O pauvre femme plewre
	Ton époux envolé; mais ne regrette pas.

	Pour lui mille ennuis de cette vie de peine
	Où chaque homme semblable au galérien maudit
	Dispute chaque jour son pain, et se déméne
	Pour trouver le bonheur qui constàmment le fuit !
	Laise le maintenant apés tant de souffrance
	Gôuter un doux repos, infini; éternal;
	Et Dieu dans sa bonté te donne l'esperance
	Une fois tout fini, de le rejoindre au Ciel !

	Words cannot paint a sorrow such as this,
	The wounded spirit, writhing as in pain,
	Sees in the future, one dark, long abyss,
	And feels that it can never smile again,
	With startled eyes it penetrates the space, 
	And views the straightened form within the gloom;
Lying alone, so far from her he loved,
	Within the narrow limits of the tomb.

	When one has known a husband’s tender love,
	To face alone a future all unknown,
	Through all the trials that the years may bring,
	To feel that one must watch and weep alone !
	While he, upon whose strength we loved to lean,
	Lies cold and silent in the marble tomb,
	Sees not our tears, nor heeds our wild despair—
	Hope leaves us as we contemplate our doom !
[column 2]
	Hope leaves us ! we who clung to hope so long,
	Aud would not see death in the glaring eye,
	To his last smile our soul responsive cried,
	"Courage, dear heart, stern death shall pass us by."
	But God our Father laid a gentle hand,
	Upon the fevered brow, and so he died;
	Leaving us crushed, our foreheads in the dust,
	So stunued that even tears were then denied.

	With steadfast gaze we looked into the past.
	Where memory's store-house opened to our view
	Visions of peace and joy ineffable,
	To which we now must bid a long adieu—
	And when at last we realized the blow,
	Which like a thunder-bolt had wrecked our life, 
	We asked—does God in mercy send stern death,
	To separate a husband from a wife ?

	But God, our Father, bade us raise our eyes,
	The veil was lifted to our wondering sight,
	And him we mourned as dead we then beheld
	In realms of perfect bliss and pure delight
	Freed from his suffering, sorrow, pain and woe,
	Where earthly cares no longer chafe or fret—
	It is enough ! poor wounded, sorrowing soul,
	Weep if thou wilt, but canst thou know regret?

	No more for him the fight for daily bread,
	That chains man like a slave to dull routine.
	No more for him the fight for happiness
	And earthly joys that vanish like a dream !
	Thou wouldst not break into his quiet rest,
	Nay, rather wouldst thou face the world alone !
	May God in mercy give thee that sweet hope,
	To meet again where partings are unknown.

							MARY F. KELLY.


AN ITEM OF HISTORY.
	Last Sunday, May 26, 1901, at a fast
meeting in the Temple, we were talking
about the various trials some people had to
pass through in this life, but many times
seemed to prove to be blessings in disguise.
	I mentioned visiting Sister Eliza R.
Snow when she was sick in Nauvoo in an
upper room in Col. Markham’s house, a
room so low that she could almost reach
the rafters as she lay in bed; without car-
pet on the floor, perhaps a chair or two, a
small trunk, a stand or table, perhaps a
candlestick and a tallow candle. I have
been told it was in this room she composed
that beautiful hymn, “O my Father.” If
she had had a splendidly furnished room
with every comfort, perhaps she would not
have been inspired to compose that hymn.
	President Snow said it was likely she
would not.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH


REORGANIZATION NINETEENTH WARD.

	The annual meeting of the Nineteenth
Ward Relief Society, Salt Lake City,
was held in the ward hall, May 6, 1901.
	On the stand were Bishop Barton and
his counselors, President M. Isabella Horne,
J. C. Howe and several other sisters of the
Stake Board.
	Meeting was called to order by Annie
Rawlins. After the opening exercises the
Bishop spoke for a short time giving many
good instructions and said though he re-
gretted the resignation of President Ann E.
Neal, he felt to accept it in consideration of
her other duties, and presented the name of
Annie Rawlins as the future president who
received a unanimous vote.
	President Rawlins said she felt very
humble in accepting this position, but with
the help of her Heavenly Father hoped to
be able to perform her duty. She then
mentioned as her first counselor Sister
Rebecca J. Asper. Sister Asper responded
briefly. Sister Rawlins and Sister Asper
were then set apart by the Bishopric, as
was also Hattie B. Harker for secretary.
	Ann E. Neal, the retiring president,
spoke at some length of her love for the
society work and said that she and her
counselors and the teachers had always


been united in working for the poor and
needy and hoped that the society would
grow and increase.
	The visiting brethren and sisters gave
wise counsel and at the close of the meet-
ing light refreshments were served.
	At a meeting held the following week
Sister Sarah A. Hancock was chosen as
second counselor.
						H. B. H.


SAN FRANCISCO RELIEF SOCIETY.
   Minutes of the Relief Society meeting
held at the Latter-day Saints California
mission headquarters, 939 Golden Gate
Ave., San Francisco, California, April 19,
1901, President E. H. Nye presiding, who
has for the last four years and a half pre-
sided over the California mission.
   President Nye’s wife, Sister Harriet
Nye, was appointed missionary to the
California mission by President Wilford
Woodruff, which position she has honored
up to the present time, of her release.
   President Nye called the sisters together
for the purpose of reorganizing the Relief
Society, Sister Ida M. Sarll having ten-
dered her resignation as president, and said
resignation having been accepted.
   Elder Joseph E. Robinson, who succeeds
President Nye as president of the mission,
was present and assisted in the reorganiza-
tion of the Society.    The opening hymn
was “Earth with her ten thousand flowers.’’
Prayer by Sister Rawlison. Second hymn,
“How firm a foundation.”
   President Nye made a short speech and
stated the obligations the mission was
under to the San Francisco Relief Society,
and that the purpose of the present meet-
ing was to reorganize the society. He also
gave some very pertinent instructions and
kindly advice.
   Elder Joseph E. Robinson spoke a few
moments after which President Nye pre-
sented the name of Sister Mary Hughes, of
1715 Mason St., as president of the Relief
Society, who was unanimously sustained.
   Sister Hughes expressed her willingness,
with the help of the Lord would do her duty.
   The name of Sister Harriet Von Den
Bergh, of 526 A. 6th St., was presented as
first counselor, who was unanimously sus-
tained.    She signified her willingness to
accept the office.
   The name of Sister Elizabeth Rawlinson,
of 1219 Lombard St., was proposed as
second counselor.    She also was unani-
mously sustained and expressed her will-
ingness to serve and her appreciation for
the confidence reposed in her.
   Next the name of Sister Mina A. Towne,
of 305 Larkin St, was presented as secretary
of the Relief Society, who also was unan-
mously sustained and she also signified
her willingness to act and her appreciation
of the trust reposed in her.
   The name of Sister Young, of Alameda,
was presented for treasurer.   She was
unanimously sustained, and expressed her
willingness to serve and her desire to per-
form her duty faithfully.
   The sisters were then set apart by
President Nye and Elder Robison, alter-
nately.
   President Nye gave some other instruc-
tions and the meeting adjourned.   Closing
hymn, “Praise God from whom all bless-
ing s flow.” Benediction, Joseph E. Robin-
son. Next meeting wes appointed for
Friday, May 3, at 2 o’clock p. m.
			MINA A. TOWNE, Sec.


4 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Womans Exponent.

EMMELINE D. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
cpace one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
s unt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, at
second-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1901.


IMPORTANT NOTICE.
	The conference of the General Relief
Society talked of for June of the present
year has been postponed, because of so
many conferences and public meetings and
festivities being held this month.	It is
likely, however, that two or three meet-
ings of the society will be held at a date to
be decided upon later.	However there
will be a gathering of this large and im-
portant organization at Saltair on the 9th
of July for the benefit of the Woman’s
Building, which is to be erected in this city
and the people far and near are urged to
help make the affair a social and financial
success. Every effort possible will be made
to get special railroad rates for those com-
ing from a distance.


THE NEW VOLUME.
	This issue of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
begins a new volume, opening the thirtieth
year since its commencement, June 1, 1872.
During that period much has transpired of
interest to us as a people, to the world at
large and especially to womankind. The
women of Utah and of the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have
made great advancement along many lines
of progress. To all those who have kept
on file the copies of this little paper this
fact will be apparent in looking over the
copies from the beginning. We are often
asked for old copies, for instance, today
comes a request from Amsterdam for certain
copies needed to make up a complete file
for a collection of women’s papers of the 
world.
	If our sisters in the Church could be im-
pressed with the value of this litttle
journal they would certainly sustain it bet-
ter. Let us prophesy good for our own
woman's work, and let us believe what we
foretell and endeavor to make it come to
pass by using all the influence possible to
maintain home literature, as well as home
manufactures and home productions.


ONE HUNDRED YEARS.
	The first day of June of this present year
marked the century hour of the birth of
Brigham Young, the founder of Utah, the
great pioneer, colonizer and organizer, and
for forty three years president of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Brigham Young was one of the greatest
men of the nineteenth century, perhaps the
greatest except Joseph Smith, certainly so


considered by the people among whom al-
most his entire life was spent. His was a
master-spirit, and a mind quick to grasp
and settle great and grave questions; he was
one who entered into detail and never
missed a point. He seemed to see every-
thing, small and great, and remembered
better than any man the writer has ever
met, every person, man woman and child,
whom he had ever seen before. He had a
most remarkable memory of incident and
was quick to discern character. He had a
wonderful faculty of controling and of
guiding people of all classes and national-
ties. One might fill volumes with inci-
dents of his life worth recording. It is well
to keep before the youth of Zion the attri-
butes and active deeds of this great man,
and to perpetuate his memory in every way
possible.
It was gratifying indeed to see so many
honor his hundredth anniversary, and to
hear the many encomiums of praise of his
life and character from the speakers on that
occasion. And as time rolls on more and
more will the people of the world be will-
ing to acknowledge his good works, his
deeds of valor, his humanitarianism and
his greatness of soul.
The program of exercises at Saltair on
June I, was very well rendered and the
music was specially fine; the weather was
very favorable. President Lorenzo Snow
was present and some of the Apostles, and
there were several of the sons and daugh-
ters of President Young. Of his wives
there were present, Margaret P. Young,
Eliza B. Young, and Amelia F. Young.
President Zina D. H. Young was detained
at home on account of the illness of some
of her grandchildren. There were many
from a distance, relatives and friends, and
it was pleasant to see the old friends
and to meet them, even for a few minutes.
Time rushes onward and ere long there will
be but a few people living who knew
Brigham Young personally.
Brigham Young was a true friend to
woman and he reposed confidence in
women, and was ever anxious to see our
sisters step forward in the line of progress
and advancement; he favored woman’s en-
tire freedom in all the walks of life.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	A meeting of the daughters of the Utah
pioneers was held at the residence of Mrs.
Alonzo E. Hyde, in this city, on Thursday,
April 11, 1901, invitations having been
previously issued to a number of the
daughters. A society was organized in a
preliminary way and a Committee on Con-
stitution appointed.	Mrs. Annie T. Hyde
was elected president; Maria V. Dougall
and Alice K. Smith, vice-presidents; Alice
M. Horne, secretary;. Julia P. 	M.
Farnsworth, corresponding secretary, and
Minnie H. James, treasurer.	Since that
time other meetings have been held and the
Constitution framed and adopted.	There
is to be a celebration of a suitable nature,
possibly on the memorable 24th of July.
The objects are to perpetuate the memory
of the heroic pioneer forefathers and fore-
mothers and to promote good-fellowship
among the posterity of these renowned
veterans.
	At the meeting of the Reapers’ Club,
Monday, June 10, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas
gave an entertaining talk on her trip to
England, France, Scotland and Wales. She

(Column 2)
had evidently traveled with her eyes open
and made the places of which she spoke
seem very real. 	Mrs. Thomas visited old
churches and described them well, and she
told us of people who interested her.	She
spoke charmingly of Paris and her im-
pressions of that wonderful city, and of the
French people whom she greatly admires in
many ways. She sort of compared the
English and American working people
making it very realistic. She thoroughly
enjoyed seeing Sir Henry Irving in the
play of Robespierre, and on another occasion
was fortunate to be present at one of his
readings, which she appreciated very much.
Mrs. Thomas is a delightful talker and the
club feel her presence in their midst again
a great pleasure, and joyfully welcome
her home again from her long sojourn
abroad.
	The conference of the Young People’s
Associations that convened in this city on
June 2 and 3 was one of great significance,
and the attendance was very large indeed.
The veteran president of the Church was
present and gave the opening address,
which was very gratifying to the assembly.
It was also a great satisfaction to hear the
young women speak in the large Taber-
nacle as well as the young men.	It really
made one feel as though this were indeed
the woman’s century.	The great organ
pealing forth its wonderful tones with the
fine singers, both men and women, added
more to the grandeur of the services than
one at a distance would imagine.	As a
people we are highly favored to have the
great Tabernacle and the wonderful organ
which adds so much to the loftiness and
superb effect of such occasions. Certainly a
conference such as this has been must have
an uplifting tendency upon the associations
as a whole, and the spiritual benefit should,
and one would think, must be far-reaching
and make a lasting impression.
	The reception given by the Y. M. and
Y. L. Associations at the Bee Hive House
on the evening of June 4, 1901, snrpassed
all others of its kind in some of its main
features. The house itself is historic, built
at an early period by the founder of Utah,
Brigham Young, and at that time
Governor of the Territory, and it is where
many parties and dinners were given to
distinguished people during that period as
well as afterwards on many occasions while
President Young was living.	At present it
is the residence of President Lorenzo Snow,
whose life and labors are a part of Church
history, and who, at the advanced age of
eighty-seven years, still maintains his
vitality and energies with all his faculties
in a truly wonderful degree. His presence
at the reception was a great attraction and
hundreds of young people from a distance
had the opportunity of meeting him person-
ally and exchanging greetings, which was
doubtless fully appreciated.	It was sur-
prising to see with what genuine en-
joyment he entered into the general spirit
of the program, particularly the musical
part. The decorations of fresh flowers were
exquisite and a perfect delight to flower-
lovers. Mrs. E. S. Taylor, president of
of the great association of young women
was also present and though not able to
take part in the program it was a pleasure
to have her in the midst of the young ladies
in whose interest she has labored so faith-
fully and traveled so extensively twenty-
one years this June.	It is probable every


Stake of Zion was represented in that
gathering of five hundred and over. Ice
cream, strawberries, cake and lemonade
were served to the entire company by a
bevy of beautiful girls. Zion is growing
rapidly and the youth are advancing in
wisdom, knowledge and understanding.

	The Tenth Ward Primary Association
held its annual meeting on Sunday evening,
May 26. The meeting house was crowded
to overflowing. The floral decorations
were profuse and very beautiful, great 
bowls of sego lilies and many varieties of
wild flowers, also roses, pansies, peonies
and honeysuckles in abundance. The fra-
grance was like that of a flower garden,
but the beautiful children surpassed even 
the lovely flowers, and the order was excel-
lent. Mrs. Paul, the president, possesses in
a rare degree the essential qualifications to 
interest and attract the children. She pre-
sided with grace and dignity and has un-
doubtedly in the short time she has had
charge won the love of the little people of
the ward in her care. The exercises were
well rendered and the selections for the pro-
gram were so carefully arranged as not to
be tiresome to the children. President
Camila Cobb and her counselors, with one
or two aids, were present, also Mrs. E B. 
Wells, Bishop Spiers, Prof. J. H. Paul,
Mrs. Elizabeth Paul, (president of the
Tenth Ward Relief Society) and a large
number of the parents of the children. The
Book of Mormon exercise given was one of
the best features of the evening and reflected
great credit on the part of those in charge
as well as the little people who gave it.
Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. C. Cobb and
Bishop Spiers each made a few remarks
commending the work done and good order
observed during the meeting. The Pri-
mary Association deserves our fostering
care, and parents cannot be too mindful of
those who are giving time, thought and 
care to their children, training them in the 
spirit of the Gospel and in those things that
tend to right and righteousness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


SUPPLEMENTARY.
	The sketch of the life and death of Mrs.
Maria Taylor McRae, of Thatcher,
Arizona, which was published in the
EXPONENT of May 15, was not quite com-
plete, as it did not contain notice of her
work in women's organizations, therefore
we add now what was sent us, but by mis-
take was omitted from the article.
	Sister Maria McRae was chosen secretary
of the Relief Society of St. David, Arizona,
April 18, 1878, and afterwards chosen
counselor to Sister Cyrena Merrill in the
summer of 1880, having, of course, resigned
her position as secretary. In February,
1891, she was selected to take charge of the 
Relief Society store at that place. When
a change was made she was chosen counselor
to Sister Elizabeth Layton. July 3, 1883,
and was afterwards elected president of the
Relief Society in July, 1885, and continued
in this position until moving away in 1893.
	Many accounts are given of her great
labors and good work in helping to build
the rock meeting house there and in caring
for the sick and poor and ministering to
those in need of spiritual or temporal
comfort.
	She was chosen first counselor in the
Primary Association in the Thatcher Ward
in February, 1894, and an aid in the Relief
Society Stake Board, St. Joseph, Septem-


ber 13, 1895, which position she held at the
time of her decease.
	These items were furnished by the sisters
at Thatcher, but do not state very clearly
in regard to the wards in which she labored
so efficiently, but we do feel too much can-
not be said in her praise. “It may well be
said of her, her children rise up and call
her blessed, her husband also, and he
praiseth her.”
	That her children may emulate her noble
example and be as faithful and as true as
their mother, is the ardent wish of the
writer.
	E. B. W.


[Column 1]
A FAITHFUL WOMAN.
Editor Woman's Exponent:

	Our Relief Society in Fairview, Utah,
feel that more than a mere notice of the
death of our beloved president is due to
the memory of her worthy life, therefore
they send you her biography that after you
have made whatever changes you desire, it
may be published in the Exponent.
	Mary A. Pritchett was born July 4, 1819
in North Carolina. At the age of two
years her parents removed to Virginia. The
rest of her life up to the time of her coming
West was spent in the grand old historic
state. All the Southern fire and chivalry
peculiar to her race whose ancestors were
French, coursed through her veins. In
1839 she was married to Joseph M Pritch-
ett, a well to do Virginian planter, and be-
came the mother of sons and daughters,
eight of whom grew to maturity.
	The Gospel was brought to her by
Jed. Grant, Joshua Grant, Joseph Park, D.
O. Rideout and Hamilton.
	At the time the War was devastating the
South, and they living in the confederate
State, were called upon to furnish patriots
for the rebel army and some of her sons
were “soldier boys.”
	After receiving the Gospel herself, her
strongest desire was that the hearts of her
children be touched, and that they all
gather to Zion. One thing that the better
enabled her to succeed in gathering her fam-
ily to Utah, was that the horrors of war
were upon and all about them; and though
the sons fought for the South, and their
hearts were naturally loyal to their own
district, yet they felt that their cause was
hopeless, and having been pressed into
service by not the most law-abiding of their
fellows, they were very anxious to bid
good bye to the ranks. All but one served
his term, and that one bid good bye to his
pards one day in the woods and traveled
westward, just three days before the terri-
ble fighting at Richmond began.
	Her husband was enabled to dispose of
his property and prepare for the journey
“across the plains” in the autumn of ’64,
going to Ohio where she was to join him
two months later at Portsmouth. Accord-
ingly herself and two youngest children, a
boy and a girl aged respectively 15 and 13,
and a married son with his wife and two
babes, and a married daughter with three
very small children, began the overland
journey.
	Their outfit was an excellent one for the
time, consisting of two good teams and
wagons well laden with excellent food,
clothing and bedding, one extra horse to
ride and ten head of stock.
	They had proceeded but about 73 miles
on their journey when a band of Guerrillas

[Column 2]

relieved them one evening of all their
loose stock and all their horses, save the one
the boy rode, while herding; not only that
but they caught the boy with a rope that
they did not hesitate to say was to lift him
above the earth with, and he was obliged
to cut through the mountains alone in by-
paths to save his life.
	The indomitable spirit of this woman
never flinched, though they must now
journey on foot, these five people with their
five helpless children, leaving by the road-
side all the provisions they had made for
their comfort to be taken by any way-
farer or by foragers from either army. Not
for one moment did she turn her eyes
backward toward her former friends and
relatives, not even tho’ she was well aware
a warm Southern welcome would have
been extended to her with all the comforts
within the power of their courtesy to be-
stow, especially if she had left her religion
with her provisions.
	An account of the many difficulties and
hardships she had to meet and overcome or
bow beneath, while they traveled a distance
of about 200 miles, through the heart of the
battle swept country in the late autumn
and early winter, when rain was of almost
daily and nightly occurrence, would make
a book of no small dimensions, and that
would not be lacking in thrilling events or
stirring loyalty.
	At Brownsville they took steamer for
Portsmouth where she met her husband
and afterwards they took passage for St.
Louis. 
	In the spring of ’67 they prepared to
cross the plains with a company of the
Saints, and her history from that time on
became the history of the Saints, so well
known to all. Fairview was their final
stopping place and their home has been in
this ward ever since.
	June 14, 1869, the. Relief Society of this
ward was organized and Sister Pritchett
was chosen its president, which responsible
position she has held with dignity and
pride up to the day of her decease, Febru-
ary 27, 1901, having been elected president
of the board of directors in 1893, at the
organization according to the laws of the
Territory.
	As we review in mind her life work we
wonder if there are many who ever with so
scanty opportunity performed so many
blessed deeds of charity and benevolence.
She was ever at the bedside of the sick; her
motherly counsel was never sought in vain
either by man, woman or child; the needy
were never refused assistance when they
applied to her, and were usually supplied
with employment—the best of help to the
poor. Her spinning and weaving never
pressed her so hard that she had not time
to attend to her religious duties.
	Regarding the society under her direction
she often received inspiration and some-
times revelation on questions that were, not
then understood, but that were later, ex-
plained by those more experienced, or in
higher places in the very same way they
had been revealed to her.
	Her tenacity in adhering to counsel was
something wonderful, and due to this
quality is the fact that our comparatively,
small society has 2,343 bushels of wheat on
hand in excellent condition.
	She always had a desire to “die in the 
harness," and her desire was granted her.
During her last illness of two months the
responsibility of the society rested on her
mind. She did not forget to send in her


membership fee of ten cents with a request
that whether she be still in the flesh or not
it be donated at the appointed time, March
17, 1901.
Her eventful and useful life closed Feb-
ruary 28, 1901. All Fairview lost a mother
when President Pritchett died.
Euphrasia Day, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AROUND POCATELLO STAKE.

	On Monday morning, April 22, the Stake
officers of the Relief Society and Y. L. M.
I. A. started on a tour around the Stake,
making the journey by team.
	There were in the party President Eliza
M. Oram, Counselor Matilda Smith and
Secretary Martha M. Scadden, of the Stake
Board of the Relief Society. We visited
eight wards in the Stake, but owing to
disease prevalent in the remaining wards
we were unable to visit them. We traveled
all day, reaching Rockland Monday eve-
ning.
	On Tuesday we proceeded to the meet-
ing house to meet our appointment. At 2
p. m. meeting convened with twenty eight
in attendance. Singing, "How firm a 
foundation." Prayer was offered by
Sister Florence Benyon. Singing, "Earth
with her ten thousand flowers.
	Counselor Matilda Smith was the first
speaker. She exhorted all to live lives of
Saints and to be faithful in keeping the
commandments of God. The sisters should
keep consecrated oil in the house as a pre-
ventive against the diseases that are
abroad. Exhorted all to seek a spirit of
love and charity towards each other. Spoke
on the necessity of attending to our prayers
and bore her testimony. Spoke against
card playing.
	President Oram spoke on cleanliness
and on tithing. Also spoke on the responsi-
bility of raising families in the ways of
God.
	Sister Edith Harrison spoke on the 
efficacy of prayer; also on home-making,
exhorting the sisters to make home a de-
sirable place where the children would
seek for their enjoyment.
	Sister Helen Oram spoke of loving one
another and doing good to those whom
we dislike most.
	The ward officers also spoke and felt de-
sirous to do their duty and obey counsel.
	We next returned to Pocatello and held
meeting with the Relief Society of Pocatello
Ward, Friday, April 26. After opening
exercises Counselor Matilda Smith spoke
on the principle of faith and of exercising
more faith than we do in cases of sickness,
and of the efficacy of the consecrated oil.
	Counselor Josephine Rosengreen felt she
was blessed in being able to attend this
meeting. We all have a mission to per-
form and could do much good or much
harm. We should be prayerful and seek to
do as much good as possible.
	Corresponding Secretary Annie Bird felt
we had great privileges and responsibilities
upon us. Should school ourselves and
prepare to become exalted in heaven. Our
actions will mark our record and we should
live to make a good record.
	President Oram spoke on the necessity of
having the Woman's Building in Salt Lake
City. Bore testimony of the Gospel and of 
the gifts that follow the believer. We
should do good for those whom we most
dislike. Exhorted all to respect the priest-
hood.
	We next met with Dempsey Ward, Sun-
day, April 28. Sister Smith was the first
speaker and felt to encourage a labor with
those who do not attend Spoke on the ten
cent fund, also spoke on the correct training
of children in the Gospel and of teaching
them to pray and to be obedient.
	President Oram suggested that a mis-
sionary labor be taken by the presidency of
each ward and that they visit every mem-
ber. Exhorted all to receive the teachers
kindly. Spoke upon the Word of Wisdom.
	Secretary M. Scadden encouraged the
girls to become initiated in the Relief
Society work, they could help much in
caring for the sick.
	Held meeting with Cambridge Ward
Relief Society, Monday, April 29. Presi-
dent Oram spoke against evil speaking of
one another. Encouraged the teachers to
be energetic. All should inculcate the gift
of faith, also spoke of the Woman's
Building. Encouraged attendance to all
spiritual duties. We should use wisdom
and not run into contagious diseases, but
see that none are in need.
	Counselor Smith spoke of the mission of
the Relief Society and exhorted all to re-
spect and obey those in authority.
	We next met with Woodland Ward
Relief Society, Wednesday, May 1. The
first part of meeting was devoted to busi-
ness, as there were some vacancies to fill.
	Counseler Smith spoke on being forgiving
and charitable and of being exemplary be-
fore our children.
	President Oram spoke on the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society by the Prophet
Joseph, also on the necessity of unity and
against fault finding with those in authority.
	Sisters M. Smith, H. Oram and Edith
Harrison sang "O my Father."
	Secretary M. Scadden spoke on the mis-
sion of the Relief Society and exhorted all
to attend to their duties. Urged teachers
to labor with the young ladies and en-
courage them to become members of the
Relief Society.
	Met with Marsh Center Relief Society,
Thursday, May 2. Counselor Matilda
Smith felt to encourage those who had
come out in the storm to attend this
meeting. Spoke on tithing and training
children in the principles of the Gospel and
teaching them to be obedient.
	President Oram exhorted the sisters to
attend all sacrament meetings. Spoke on
the efficacy of consecrated oil in sickness.
	Counselor Smith sang "The Fisherman
and his Child."
	Sister Williams, of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
felt we should teach the children to sing.
Should obey counsel, and receive office as
a blessing and not as a burden.
	President Oram exhorted all to study
and not seek office.
	Met with the Relief Society of Garden
Creek, Friday, May 3. Counselor Smith
spoke on the necessity of a conference
house in Salt Lake City, also on the neces-
sity of keeping oil and exercising faith in
the ordinances for the sick. 
	Secretary M. Scadden spoke of unity,
prayer and forgiveness and exhorted all to
sustain their officers.
	Sister Douglas, of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
encouraged all to attend their meetings and
help the presidents.
	Sisters Nellie Oram and Edith Harrison,
of the Y. L. M. I. A., sang, "Nay, speak 
no ill."
	President Oram spoke on cleanliness and
order and touched on many important
subjects. Enjoyed doing her duty, had 
been blessed in paying tithing.
	Met with McCammon Ward Relief
Society, Saturday, May 4, at 11 a. m.
After opening exercises Counselor Smith 
said she had attended conference in Salt
Lake City and heard President Snow speak
on the increase of tithe payers Spoke to
some officers just sustained, and exhorted
them to be diligent in doing their duty and 
regard their office as a blessing.
	President Oram spoke of the high calling
of a teacher. All should be united and not
stir up strife. They should settle all 
Relief Society difficulties in the society and 
not trouble the Bishops with them. Meet-
ing closed with singing "O my Father."
Benediction by Julia Hall.
	The ward officers of each society felt
well and desired to do their duty.
	Immediately after meeting in McCammon
we started homeward, reaching Pocatello
again at 9:30 p m. We all felt well and
had very much enjoyed our trip and our 
labors, and we sincerely trust that some
little good has been accomplished by this
labor in this Stake of Zion.
	May God bless the Relief Society and
Relief Society workers everywhere is the
earnest prayer of your sisters in the cause of 
truth.
			Martha Scadden, Sec.
	In behalf of the Relief Society.


OBITUARY.

		A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

	Sarah Martitia Allen Pearson died at Draper,
Salt Lake Co., Utah, February 28, 1901, at the
age of 52 years. She was a good mother, a pru-
dent wife, a woman of sterling qualities aud a firm
believer in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. She was a 
member of the Draper Relief Society, although
her labors were of a private nature. She was a 
peace maker in very deed. Wise in judgment and
of a quiet disposition, but one greatly beloved by
her family and friends.
	She was a descendant of the old Revolutionary
stock of Virginia and South Carolina. She was
the fourth child of Andrew Jackson Allen, of
Kentucky, who was one of the pioneers of Utah in
1847, and Delilah Andrus Allen, of Illinois.
	Her grandfather, Rial Allen, was born in 1791
in South Carolina, three years after South Caro-
lina accepted the present constitution, which
changed it from a royal province to one of the
thirteen original states, and during the second
year of Washington's first administration. He
was the son of Samuel Allen, of North Carolina,
who assisted in the struggle for liberty, and sup-
posed to be of English origin dating back to the
colony Albermarle, whose settlers came from
Virginia prior to 1663. 
	Archibald Andrus, her mother's father, was born
in Halifax, Virginia, on the 9th of January, 1771.
He was the son of Eleazer Andrus, of Virginia, of
Scottish descent.
	Sister Pearson was born February 19, 1849, in
Salt Lake City. She with her parents were num-
bered among the first settlers of Draper. She
grew to womanhood having the same or similar
experiences to those of her forefathers and inci-
dental to the early settlers of Utah. She received
her education principally under the late Dr. J. R.
Park. On the 17th of March, 1878, she was mar-
ried to Henry Pearson, in Salt Lake City. On the
24th of December, 1869, her first child was born,
Henry Allen Pearson, whose childhood was passed
at Draper, and who, at the age of seventeen 
years, graduated at the Deseret University of
Utah. He entered the Naval Academy at An-
napolis, Md., two years later.
	At the end of six years he graduated and entered
the United States Navy, and has risen from cadet
to lieutenant. He served with Admiral Dewey
in Oriental waters at the outbreak of the war with
Spain, and was in charge of the Zafric which cut
the cable that connected Manila with the outside
world.
	Since that time eight other children have been 
born to her ; two daughters and six sons, seven of
whom survive her. Her eldest daughter died one
year and one month before the mother, leaving a


little grandson one year old. This great shock so
affected her health that she never recovered, but
grieved and mourned for her daughter up to the
time of her own demise. She leaves a host of
relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
	Sad are our hearts, dear sister, without you, but
we feel comforted when we think of the noble
work left here on earth as a monument of honor
and praise to your memory.
	Thou hast been true to the trust our Heavenly
Father placed in thee. Thou hast never shirked a
duty or complained of the hardness of thy lot.
Thou hast set a grand example for thy family and
friends to imitate, and we will think of thee hence-
forth as not in the dark tomb but rather dressed in
thy heavenly robes, mingling with the good and
just awaiting to receive those dear to thee as they
are prepared and called home to the mansions of
glory.
	This is lovingly dedicated to her husband and
children by her sister,
	Delilah E. Allen Dudley.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
ST. JOSEPH STAKE. 

The semi-annual conference of the N. W.
R. S. of St. Joseph Stake met in the Pima
meeting house, Friday, May 17, 1901, at
10 a. m and 2 p. m., President Elizabeth
Layton presiding.
Present on the stand were Elder L. John
Nuttall and President Emma S. Woodruff,
of Salt Lake City, who were visiting the
organizations in eastern and southern
Arizona; also the presiding priesthood of
the Stake, as well as the Bishops of several
wards.
After the usual opening exercises roll of
officers was called and minutes of Decem-
ber conference, 1900, was read and ap-
proved.
President Layton said we were greatly
blessed by having with us Elder Nuttall
and President Woodruff.
Sister Woodruff next addressed the con-
ference. Said she found the Saints here
about as they are in the north. Spoke in
regard to the building of the conjoint house
in Salt Lake City. Urged the sisters to
subscribe for the EXPONENT. Advised
mothers to look after their children and
train their daughters to do all kinds of
work.
Young ladies should attend the Relief
Society meetings and acquaint themselves
with the workings of the same. Relief
Society officers should consult and work
in harmony with their Bishops and Stake
officers and with the Stake Presidency.
The local organizations of the Stake,
which numbers twelve, were reported by
their respective presidents, with one or two
exceptions. All of them are doing a good
work and are desirous of improving.
Elder Nuttall said:  “It gives me
pleasure to visit again with you after an
absence of a little over a year. I can see
the advancement made by the sisters which
is very gratifying, though the average
attendance is not what it should be. The
sisters do not realize the privileges and
blessings of their membership in these
organizations or they would certainly be
more faithful in attending meetings. One
of the great objects of this organization is
that the members may train themselves and
become acquainted with the scriptures, that
they may be able to converse intelligently
with the Elders on Church matters, and be
qualified to teach the principles of the same
to their children. In connection with the
principles of the Gospel the sisters can ex-
change ideas about their household duties,
thereby aiding each other. Felt to thank
God that some of the branches were study-

[Column 2]
ing the articles of faith. If we work to
that end we can make the meetings just
what we want them to be. It is not only
a duty but a great privilege to assist with
our means in the carrying on of this work.
Teachers should visit with prayerful
hearts. Spoke of the storing of wheat.
Hoped we would continue testing the
methods of preserving wheat in this warm
climate. It has been made known to
prophets that a time of privation would
come upon the world and it is no more
than natural to suppose we will feel it.
President Young said he knew the breth-
ren would not store grain, but the sisters
would and we could depend upon them.
Conference adjourned until two p. m.
by singing and prayer.
Afternoon session met as per adjourn-
ment. Counselor Mary L. Ramsey was
the first speaker. She was thankful for
the visit of one of our brothers and sisters
from Salt Lake City. Said their visit was
greatly appreciated. If we get the spirit
of the work it is a pleasure for us to per-
form our duty. Asked God to bless us all
that we might be more diligent in per-
forming the labors assigned to us as
Relief Society members.
Sister Woodruff thought the organiza-
tion was greatly blessed in having the
Stake authorities sustain them by their
presence. Counseled mothers to teach
their children to pray as soon as they are
able to lisp a word; also to pay tithing. 
Control your children while young and
you will seldom have trouble with them
when thev grow older. Said it made no
difference to what position we are called so
long as we are working for the kingdom of
God.
Statistical and financial report of the
Stake was read by the secretary, Selina
Phillips.
President Layton made an illustration
of the sisters loaning wheat and urged
them to heed the counsel given by those in
authority in this regard.
The secretary presented the names of the
Stake and local officers, the names of Eliza
Nebeker and Virginia Major were added to
the list of the Stake aids, all being unani-
mously sustained in their respective posi-
tions.
President Andrew Kimball advised the
Stake officers to meet with each ward once
a month. Was pleased with the financial
status of the Relief Society, but there was
a falling away of the average attendance
which he was sorry to see.
Discouraged the storing of wheat in grist
mills, but rather, he said, build granaries
of your own for this purpose. “It is the
way we go to work whether our labor be-
comes a pleasure or a task. It is the duty
of officers to respect the priesthood at all
times, to counsel and advise with them in
all matters pertaining to the organization.
Elder Nuttall hoped we would remember
the points suggested by Sister Woodruff and
President Kimball. Gave some excellent
advice on the wiping out of iniquity, etc.,
said the sisters should uphold and sustain
the suffrage movement. This life is given
us that we may prepare for the future. We
have no right to judge the actions of our
brothers and sisters. This is God’s work
it is also ours. “May he bless you that
you may feel His power and influence in
the name of Jesus Christ, amen.”
President Layton was gratified with the
instructions given. Hoped all associa-

[Column 3]
tions would take to themselves that part
which is best adapted to them.
Conference adjourned for six months.


MRS. F. S. RICHARDS.
   Mrs. F. S. Richards, who went to Minn-
eapolis to attend the N-A. W. S. A. Con-
vention held in that city the week begin-
ning May 30, 1901, has returned home in
excellent health and spirits.   She enjoyed
meeting with Miss Susan B. Anthony,
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Mrs. Rachel
Foster Avery and other prominent suffrage
women, whom she had previously known.
  Mrs. Richard’s report of the work in 
Utah was very well received, in fact by
some of the ladies her report was said to
surpass that of other states. Mrs. Richards
was complimented by being placed on com-
mittees and was among the honored guests
at all the receptions, excursions and enter-
tainments planned for the distinguished
visitors.
   Miss Anthony and the other celebrated
ladies who were expected to be Mrs. Rich-
ards guests when returning from the Yel-
lowstone, will not come this way home,
which is a great disappointment. 
E. B. W.


DOMESTIC LIFE AND THE PROFESSIONS.

	Woman’s special work and mission is a
well-worn theme. Indeed it has been one
of the greatest problems of this generation;
and how well the 19th century has learned
its lesson is evidenced by the great army of
women we now find marching up the hill of
progress. And the ranks are being con-
stantly swollen by noble women who are
willing to give their lives for the amelior-
ation of the woes of humanity—as suffra-
gists, temperance workers and reformers,
doctors of divinity and medicine, lawyers,
legislators, State Senators, journalists,
school superintendents and teachers. It is
now a well established fact that these and
many other vocations are well suited to
woman’s capacity.
	But the question now propounded by
sociologists is, “How does the present
status effect women as home-makers?’’
	Some still maintain that home is her
sphere; and that she should never pass be-
yond its sacred shrine; that women are
totally unfit for professional or public duties,
unless it be spinsters, or childless married
women.
	As there are so many phases of life to-be
considered, is it not possible for us to strike
a happy medium by classifying woman’s
work, and considering individual circum-
stances and capabilities.
	I doubt if any true woman will gainsay
that “home is her heaven,’’ that her highest
and grandest sphere is that of wifehood and
motherhood. But is there not something
more she can do? Does not the very fact
of her being wife and mother constitute one
of her highest recommendations as a pro-
fessional woman? This woman in whom
the wifely devotion, the motherly
love, has fostered in her nature all that is
true and tender, all that is grand and ex-
alting. Those higher attributes that in-
stinctively yearn over the welfare of human-
ty, and exist from the very fact of her
having been a wife and mother.
	Emerson says: “A fair test and measure
of civilization is the influence of good
women. The woman’s cause is man’s;


[Column 1]
they rise or fall together, dwarfed or God-
like, bond or free.”  Since time immemor-
al women have been bread-winners, and
various have been the causes which have
forced them to gain their own livelihood,
and that of others dependent upon them;
and various have been the avenues to
Which they have had recourse.   So long as
woman’s ambition did not soar beyond that
of the household domestic, the seamstress
or washerwoman, little was thought or said
of her stepping beyond her province.  It
was all right for woman to be self-sustain-
ing so long as she did not work in the same
lines, nor receive the same wages for the
same work as her brothers.  For a long
time there was a struggle for the “survival
of the fittest,” but at present all true, just-
minded men and women seem willing to
concede to women equal rights, as far as
the labor question is concerned.  In those
professions where women are as well quali-
fied and efficient as men, they receive gener-
ally the same salaries. But the great ques-
tion seems to be centered on the influence it
has upon her home life, many declaring that
college graduates are disqualified as home-
makers.  They say that in nearly all cases
they marry late in life, and often not at all,
and often when they do marry, they are
not good wives and mothers.  As yet the
question is tentative, as it is only recently
that they have been granted the privilege
of equal opportunities in education and the
woman college graduate has yet to prove
her efficiency as a home-maker.
    But to the thinking mind, it would seem
that the sacred requirements of motherhood
would naturally demand all the advantages
of the highest education.  And if that girl
or woman has faithfully followed her col-
lege course day by day and year by year,
with patience and fortitude, ever with the
instinctive object uppermost in her heart of
making herself an honorable and useful
woman, who can gainsay that the knowl-
edge thus gained—the discipline of the
mind, the correct habits of thought and
action so long and patiently pursued, will
make her a better, a wiser and a more com-
petent wife and mother?
    By considering for a moment the causes
which lead women into the domain of pro-
fessional life, we find the causes of incen-
tives as varied as are the industries in
which she may engage.  It may at times
be a worldly, vain or inordinate ambition
that prompts her heroic efforts.  But could
we look within the soul and know the
spi[-]it promptings, we would, almost with-
out exception, find it is an innate knowl-
edge, a desire for more extended usefulness,
or, perchance, dire necessity that urges her
into the professional field of labor.  Often-
times it is this very mother-love that is the
well-spring of the very act that is said to
disqualify her for these sacred duties.
    Oh, the work and struggle of these
mothers—first that their children might be,
and then that they may continue to be!
Do we not find this condition throughout
all the regions of civilization?  Women as

[Column 2]
widows, women separated from their hus-
bands from various causes, and almost in-
variably the children cling to the mother
and she must be the main prop and stay.
Then shall woman regulate her activities to
routine drudgery, when she is capable of
better things?  When by more intelligently
directing her energies she can accomplish
more for her children than by remaining
constantly beneath the portals of her own
home?  And it stands without argument that
mothers as typewriters, school teachers, or
even as lawyers and doctors, can do more
for their children than those who work from
sun to sun in other ways, for half the re-
muneration.
    True, it might well be said, that the
proper order of things should be for the
father to be the bread-winner, and the
mother the home-maker; for the ideal home
is consecrated by both paternal and maternal
love, and its sweetest music the prattle of
little children. But inscrutable are life’s
experiences!  Oftentimes woman must
meet the exigencies of the case alone and
unaided, she must do and dare, lift the
burden and look to heaven for strength and
light and wisdom.  The true womanly
woman will make the best wife, and, mother,
whate’er may be her vocation.

         “We need not wealth or splendor,
	    Wide hall nor lordly dome; 
	  The good, the true, the tender—
	    These form the wealth of home.”

    What we most need are broad-minded.
women who love their husbands and their
children, those who know and love duty.
Such women will perform faithfully their
duty nearest them.  Such women, even in
professional life, when by necessity they
earn a livelihood, will devote more time
and careful thought to their families than
the unprincipled woman who has wealth
and all her time at her disposal.  “The
greatest boon, the deepest tenderness a wife
and mother can bestow is to help her loved
ones to their duty.”  ’Tis the mother’s
gentle hand that twines and weaves the
roses of life into existence.

	  Oft we ask ourselves the question, 
	     What is best for us to do,—
	  What soul-work or hand vocatton,
	     Best for women to pursue ?

	  Shall we be the dolls of fashion,
	     Loved and flattered for awhile,
	  Wither ’neath man’s sterner passion,
	     Live again in fonder smile?

	  Shall we live for vain ambition,
	     Live for friends of wealth and power, 
	  Feast on words of adulation.
	     On the friendship of an hour ?

    	  Shall we live for public duties, 
	     To reform the low and vile,
	  Cultivate angelic beauties,
	      In those minds now filled with guile?

	  Shall we live for home’s fair altar,
	     Ne’er to pass beyond its shrine,
	  In this purpose never falter,
	      Let all thoughts around it twine ?

	  To these queries what’s the answer ?
	     Duty! Duty seems to call;
	  Let all thoughts and feelings center,
	     On stern duty first of all.

[Column 3]
	  Know it, love it, act it bravely,
	      Whereso’er the path may lead;
For ’twill bring most perfect pleasure.
	     And at last the richest meed.
					    ELLIS R. SHIPP.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
much as possible for you money.	TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank n Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open 
one NOW
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired. 
LORENZO SNOW, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the .....
Oregon Short Line
Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between.
Salt Lake City and Ogden.....
Se that your tickets read via the
"SHORT LINE” 
And Get the best

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
- 
[Column 1]
S. W. Eccles
Gen Tfc. Mgr.

[Column Two]
D. E. Burley
G. P. & T. A.


Mrs. McKinley celebrated her fifty-fourth
birthday on June 8. Flowers, gifts and
remembrances were sent to her from all
over the country.
Rev. Anna H. Shaw has been invited by
Prof. Ward and Mrs. L. A. Coonley Ward,
of Chicago, to accompany them on a trip to
the Sandwich Islands.


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
